US	42666214	RUWG77XS3I8DY	0553587293	664016094	The Romantic (Seducer)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	I have to say that Madeline Hunter's latest The Romantic	Certainly lives up to its title. It's a beautifully written story about the unrequited love and frustrated passions of Julian Hampton, solicitor to the powerful and very wealthy. While Julian is outwardly calm, cool and collected inwardly he's a man tormented by a powerful love for a woman who is not only a member of the aristocracy but married as well although unhappily so. Over the years he has become very adept at hiding his true feelings from the object of his devotion and the outside world. He vents out this inner turmoil by writing passionate sometimes angry love letters and poems to his oblivious love until one day she shows up on his doorstep pleading for his help and protection.<br /><br />Julian Hampton has always been Penelope's, the Countess of Glasbury, knight in shining armor. So, when her estranged husband decides to end their mutually agreed upon separation, she turns to her life long friend and defender for help once again. Only this time something has changed and she begins to develop a dangerous attraction to him. Dangerous not only because she's a married woman but also because her husband is a ruthless monster of a man who will stop at nothing to get what he wants and after a decade long separation he decides he wants his wife back.<br /><br />Ms. Hunter has written a beautiful love story and a keeper in every sense of the word. Of course what makes this book so unforgettable is the hero. Julian is my idea of the perfect romantic hero. He is wonderfully tortured but not by the usual my momma/ex-wife/lover done me wrong but by his life long love for a seemingly unattainable woman. Not only that but he's also willing to sacrifice anything and everything for his woman. What could be more romantic than that? I know that my fellow romance readers will agree with me when I say that sometimes I can enjoy a book but not truly believe in the happily ever after. Or not truly believe that the characters love for each other is more than just good sex. Well, this book isn't one of those. By the time you turn the last page you will believe that Julian and Penelope will be together forever and not just because the author decided it should be so but because their love transcends the pages it's printed on.<br /><br />As wonderful as this book is I feel I have to issue a little warning for those of us who consider adultery a hot button issue. Adultery is a major hot button issue for me. However, I was able to accept it in this book because of the nature of Penelope's marriage and the fact that her husband was an animal, pure and simple. I also thought the author did a wonderful job of describing the way women in that time were virtually enslaved to their husbands regardless of how cruel or abusive said husband was. So, I would entreat those who would normally not read this type of story line to give this book a try. The Romantic is romance at its finest and I highly recommend it.ell, this book isn't one of those. By the time you turn the last page you will believe that Julian and Penelope will be together forever and not just because the author decided it should be so but because their love transcends the pages it's printed on. <br /> <br />As wonderful as this book is I feel I have to issue a little warning for those of us who consider adultery a hot button issue. Adultery is a major hot button issue for me. However, I was able to accept it in this book because of the nature of Penelope's marriage and the fact that her husband was an animal, pure and simple. I also thought the author did a wonderful job of describing the way women in that time were virtually enslaved to their husbands regardless of how cruel or abusive said husband was. So, I would entreat those who would normally not read this type of story line to give this book a try. The Romantic is romance at its finest and I highly recommend it.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-10
US	42666214	RD1KEAISBB2VE	0060091290	575112977	Secrets of a Summer Night (The Wallflowers, Book 1)	Books	5	70	75	N	Y	Unputdownable!	Simon Hunt is a self made millionaire. But his millions can't buy him a place in the upper tiers of British society. He, and the growing number of self made commoners, are looked down upon by the aristocracy and thought of as opportunists and social climbers. Simon is only barely tolerated in \\"polite\\" society because of his friendship with the estimable Lord Westcliff (the hero of the next book in the series) and because the crumbling aristocracy can't ignore his millions try as they might. Simon doesn't care less about his pariah status in the upper circles since he disdains their boring parties and inane conversation. Only one thing keeps Simon from swearing off balls and soirees altogether and her name is Annabelle Peyton.<br /><br />Annabelle and her family are in desperate straits. They are living in genteel poverty and desperately trying to keep head above water. The obvious solution out of their predicament is for Annabelle to marry a peer, however, her chances of getting a proposal are virtually zero due to her lack of a dowry. As her fourth season draws to a close, Annabelle knows that it has to be now or never. To that end, she meets a group of fellow wallflowers and they strike up a friendship centered around their immediate need to catch husbands. They concoct a plan to help Annabelle trap a peer into marriage during a house party. But Annabelle's confidence and her plans are shaken by the presence of Simon Hunt. Annabelle cant't forget the day she allowed him to kiss her and she can't forgive him for making her like it. Simon makes it clear that he has only wanted one thing from Annabelle ever since that day and she will not yield regardless of his wealth or his handsome looks. As the days go by and she gets to know the real Simon and she can't help but be attracted by this tender, sweet and oh so sexy man. However, she musn't forget not only that Simon only wants her for his mistress but the fact that he is not a peer. Even if he proposed marriage she couldn't bring herself to marry a commoner since as far as she is concerned it would be social suicide.<br /><br />For his part, Simon is determined to make Annabelle see him for who he is instead of his lack of a social pedigree. At first he set out to charm and disarm her with the goal of making her his mistress. However, Simon didn't count on falling head over heels in love and while she is responsive to his kisses he knows that his feelings aren't reciprocated. So, Simon sets out to change matters and make Annabelle his body and soul.<br /><br />After finishing this book I have decided that Lisa Kleypas is virtually unbeatable in the hero department. Her heroes are an incredibly potent mix of tender, loving, sexy, arrogant bad boys that I simply can't resist and Simon is no exception. I also have to commend the author for pushing the envelope with Annabelle. She is unapologetically selfish and mercenary and she will stop at nothing to get what she wants. She clearly wants to marry a peer not only for the well being of her mother and brother but also for her own well being. She makes no bones about wanting to be part of high society and having money and servants. So, if you are looking for a self sacrificing heroine who will put herself through hell for the sake of others you won't find her here. I admit Annabelle is a little hard to like but I found her refreshingly real and so she won me over by the end. The love story is heart clutchingly romantic and the love scenes are incredibly tender and of course this being a Kleypa's book they are also very hot. All in all this is a hell of a story and I highly recommend it.e couldn't bring herself to marry a commoner since as far as she is concerned it would be social suicide. <br /> <br />For his part, Simon is determined to make Annabelle see him for who he is instead of his lack of a social pedigree. At first he set out to charm and disarm her with the goal of making her his mistress. However, Simon didn't count on falling head over heels in love and while she is responsive to his kisses he knows that his feelings aren't reciprocated. So, Simon sets out to change matters and make Annabelle his body and soul. <br /> <br />After finishing this book I have decided that Lisa Kleypas is virtually unbeatable in the hero department. Her heroes are an incredibly potent mix of tender, loving, sexy, arrogant bad boys that I simply can't resist and Simon is no exception. I also have to commend the author for pushing the envelope with Annabelle. She is unapologetically selfish and mercenary and she will stop at nothing to get what she wants. She clearly wants to marry a peer not only for the well being of her mother and brother but also for her own well being. She makes no bones about wanting to be part of high society and having money and servants. So, if you are looking for a self sacrificing heroine who will put herself through hell for the sake of others you won't find her here. I admit Annabelle is a little hard to like but I found her refreshingly real and so she won me over by the end. The love story is heart clutchingly romantic and the love scenes are incredibly tender and of course this being a Kleypa's book they are also very hot. All in all this is a hell of a story and I highly recommend it.	2004-11-05
US	42666214	R1NIKHXK6DWYQN	006054175X	777912160	His Every Kiss (Guilty Series)	Books	4	29	30	N	Y	4 and 1/2 stars	There are those who bemoan the loss of quality historical romance and sometimes after a particularly bad read, I am inclined to agree with them. But every once in a while an author comes along with a book so incredibly engrossing that I am one again hopeful that the genre will survive the glut of unimaginative, lackluster crap that's put out there.<br /><br />Composer Dylan Moore is as famous for his brilliant music as he is for his wild lifestyle and his reckless antics. During one wild escapade, Dylan takes a fall from his horse and hits his head on a rock. He survives the fall but the injury caused by the impact creates an incessant buzzing sound in his head that drowns out the music. Tormented by his inability to compose Dylan is driven to near madness and in his typical dramatic fashion tries to take his own life at a concert hall where he had conducted his most brilliant works.<br /><br />His savior turns out to be the hall's hauntingly beautiful charwoman who manages to convince him in a no-nonsense way that he has something to live for even if it doesn't seem like it at<br />the time.Dylan concedes, not because of her speech but because for the first time since the accident he is able to hear music. So,the good news is that Dylan might be able to compose again.The bad news is that his muse has disappeared without a trace.<br /><br />Five years later, Grace Cheval is nearly destitute when she runs into Dylan Moore again. This time he will stop at nothing to possess this sensual woman who has the ability to bring back the music his life revolves around. Grace, on the other hand, already played muse to an artist with disastrous results so she fights Dylan tooth and nail every step of the way. Then one day Dylan's life is changed forever when a daughter he never knew he had is dropped off at his doorstep giving him the perfect excuse to bring Grace into his life. The ever practical Grace, being almost homeless at this point, decides that taking a post as governess to Dylan's daughter is the lesser of two evils.<br />So,she agrees as long as he understands that she will not now nor will she ever accept to become his lover or his muse.<br /><br />It is no secret that I'm a sucker for tortured heroes.Dylan Moore is magnificent in his torment and the author does not try to sugarcoat him at any time. He is a gloriously moody,selfish, self-absorbed, devil-may-care bad boy.But, at the same time she gives the reader teasing glimpses of the tender, thoughtful, loving man that lies beneath and it makes for a very potent combination. She also suceeded in creating a perfect heroine for him. Grace is a practical, strong, smart woman who is completely unafraid of her sexuality. She has made some terrible mistakes in the past but she will not crucify herself for them.In short, she is a breath of fresh air in a time period that is polluted with self sacrificing virgins. I also loved Isabel, Dylan's daughter. Other reviewers have pointed out that she was too articulate for an eight year old ,however, the author did describe her as a musical genius like her father. So, the character seemed true to life for me. As for the plot, it's certainly nothing too original, however, the author makes it work. To me this is proof that a good author can breathe life into any old tired plot. In the end though, I just couldn't award the book five stars because I felt Grace held out for much too long and then when she finally gave in to her desires, her about face just seemed too sudden for me. I also thought the end cried out for an epilogue but that's just a small quibble on my part.<br /><br />After putting out two great books in a row Ms. Guhrke has become an auto buy author for me and so I urge any serious romance reader to run out and buy this book. You will not be disappointed :)s the lesser of two evils.  So,she agrees as long as he understands that she will not now nor will she ever accept to become his lover or his muse.    It is no secret that I'm a sucker for tortured heroes.Dylan Moore is magnificent in his torment and the author does not try to sugarcoat him at any time. He is a gloriously moody,selfish, self-absorbed, devil-may-care bad boy.But, at the same time she gives the reader teasing glimpses of the tender, thoughtful, loving man that lies beneath and it makes for a very potent combination. She also suceeded in creating a perfect heroine for him. Grace is a practical, strong, smart woman who is completely unafraid of her sexuality. She has made some terrible mistakes in the past but she will not crucify herself for them.In short, she is a breath of fresh air in a time period that is polluted with self sacrificing virgins. I also loved Isabel, Dylan's daughter. Other reviewers have pointed out that she was too articulate for an eight year old ,however, the author did describe her as a musical genius like her father. So, the character seemed true to life for me. As for the plot, it's certainly nothing too original, however, the author makes it work. To me this is proof that a good author can breathe life into any old tired plot. In the end though, I just couldn't award the book five stars because I felt Grace held out for much too long and then when she finally gave in to her desires, her about face just seemed too sudden for me. I also thought the end cried out for an epilogue but that's just a small quibble on my part.      After putting out two great books in a row Ms. Guhrke has become an auto buy author for me and so I urge any serious romance reader to run out and buy this book. You will not be disappointed :)	2004-10-12
US	42666214	R13OZ5P53XUCH8	0786003545	277218549	Fever Dreams	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	4 1/2 stars	After devouring this book in one sitting I was left wondering why this author is not more well known. If this book is indicative of her talents then she should be a star. In other words, Ms. Leone has created a book that has it all: steamy romance, heart stopping action and a hero that is to die for.<br />Madeleine Barrington the daughter of a wealthy, socially prominent family is shocked to the core when she realizes that the man she has ben dreaming about, the man she had an anonymous one night stand with while on a business trip to south america is the same man her father has hired to accompany her back to that same country as her bodyguard. She has tried in vain to forget that terrible lapse of judgement in which she allowed herself to put her guard down let this stranger see her as no one else ever had before.<br />On the other hand, Ransom has never been able to forget the woman who gave him the most incredible night of his life. At first he was hurt when he woke up to find her gone  after the night they had just spent in each others arms. Later, when he realizes the woman he can't stop thinking about is the same millionaire corporate CEO he has been hired to protect he is furious. He feels she used him and he will not soon forgive her for it. Madeleine is drowning in shame for what she did with the stranger but she has no choice and must let him accompany her and so she sets some ground rules: absolutely no touching and no references to that wild night they spent together. Once they get to Montedora (a fictional country in South America) Madeleine finds herself more and more captivated by this arrogant, surly man but she is determined to keep her distance no matter what his sex appeal. Fate, however, has other plans and Madeleine finds herself a fugitive in a foreign country on the verge of a revolution depending on Ransom for her very life.<br />What made this book a keeper for me was the chemistry between Madeleine and Ransom. After I closed the book there was no doubt in my mind that these two, despite their social differences, were meant for one another and would definitely live happily ever after. Also, Ms. Leone writes great dialogue and the verbal sparring between the hero and heroine made me laugh out loud in several instances because they sounded so much like an old married couple. In the end, this book came thisclose to being a solid five star read but alas I found that deep in the story the action takes too much away from the romance. However, I still consider this book a keeper. If you love irreverent, arrogant but sweet and sexy heroes pick up this book and I assure you you will not be disappointed. :0)was no doubt in my mind that these two, despite their social differences, were meant for one another and would definitely live happily ever after. Also, Ms. Leone writes great dialogue and the verbal sparring between the hero and heroine made me laugh out loud in several instances because they sounded so much like an old married couple. In the end, this book came thisclose to being a solid five star read but alas I found that deep in the story the action takes too much away from the romance. However, I still consider this book a keeper. If you love irreverent, arrogant but sweet and sexy heroes pick up this book and I assure you you will not be disappointed. :0)	2004-06-04
US	42666214	R3Q0F9X6FP7061	0060541741	731721131	Guilty Pleasures (Guilty Series)	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Incredibly  romantic story	Daphne Wade has been left virtually destitute after her father's untimely death. Luckily, the knowledge she gained by living and working alongside her father, who was a famous and respected antiquarian,has gained her a position working to unearth a Roman villa at the Duke of Tremore's estate. Daphne is immediately dazzled by the Duke's good looks and falls in love with him agaisnt her better judgment. Daphne knows nothing could come out of her hopeless fixation with Anthony but heartbreak but how can she resist him especially when he insists on taking off his shirt and exposing his gorgeous chest. To make matters worse, she is either struck mute or starts stammering wildly whenever he comes near her. The inevitable eventually happens when she overhears the Duke conversing with his sister and comparing her to, among other things, a machine and a stick insect. Daphne is devastated but her spirit is unbroken. She finally regains her senses and hardens her heart agaisnt Anthony and vows to leave her post and start life anew with the help of Anthony's sister Viola, who can see the strong, vivrant woman beneath Daphne's plain exterior. On the other hand, Anthony is flabbergasted when Daphne presents her resignation. He cannot afford to lose her valuable skills when he is so close to realizing his dream of opening a museum displaying his impressive collection of Roman artifacts. Furthermore,Anthony is unused to hearing the word no and refuses to accept the fact that for once in his life he is not getting his way. He begins a concerted campaign to keep Daphne from leaving him. Anthony brings out the heavy artillery and begins to charm and disarm Daphne. The only problem is that Anthony didn't count on his previously mousy ol' stammering employee turning into a strong, smart, sassy woman who is determined it seems, to be rid of him. Slowly but surely Anthony finds himself captivated by this new woman with her flashing eyes and the body of a goddess and begins to see her in a new light. Before long he starts to wonder how he could have ever thought her plain. For her part, Daphne thought she had steeled her heart against Anthony's charm and even though she knows that his sudden interest in her is purely for his own selfish reasons she cannot help but be captivated by him and by her discovery that beneath the haughty aristocratic demeanor lies a warm loving, man who is deeply afraid of falling in love.<br />I absolutely loved this author's version of the ugly duckling theme because unlike other books I have read with this theme the heroine doesn't turn into a swan by the end of the book. In other words, Daphne doesn't undergo any physical transformation except in Anthony's eyes. She is not a beautiful woman, in fact she isn't even described as pretty just merely attractive in her own way. The way Anthony begins to slowly see beyond the surface and begins to fall in love with the woman beneath made for an absolutely amazing reading experience.If you are a hopeless incurable romantic like me you will not want to miss this book. I highly, highly recommend it.new light. Before long he starts to wonder how he could have ever thought her plain. For her part, Daphne thought she had steeled her heart against Anthony's charm and even though she knows that his sudden interest in her is purely for his own selfish reasons she cannot help but be captivated by him and by her discovery that beneath the haughty aristocratic demeanor lies a warm loving, man who is deeply afraid of falling in love.<br />I absolutely loved this author's version of the ugly duckling theme because unlike other books I have read with this theme the heroine doesn't turn into a swan by the end of the book. In other words, Daphne doesn't undergo any physical transformation except in Anthony's eyes. She is not a beautiful woman, in fact she isn't even described as pretty just merely attractive in her own way. The way Anthony begins to slowly see beyond the surface and begins to fall in love with the woman beneath made for an absolutely amazing reading experience.If you are a hopeless incurable romantic like me you will not want to miss this book. I highly, highly recommend it.	2004-04-05
US	42666214	R2P3ODD82FY1HH	0843952067	665774559	Carnal Gift	Books	2	11	17	N	Y	Unremarkable	Jamie Blackwell travels to England on some urgent business of national security for the American colonies. While there he travels to Ireland to visit an old friend from his days<br />at Oxford who is now an earl. While on a hunt they gallop right into a Catholic burial which is illegal under English rule. Jamie quickly steps in to diffuse the volatile situation and manages to convince his friend to let the priest and mourners go without any repercussions. One of the mourners was a young woman whose beauty immediately caught Jamie's attention. He tried<br />not to stare at her so as not to bring his friend's lecherous attention to her. Little did he know that his heated glances<br />did not go unnoticed by his friend the earl who decided then and there to give his friend a gift he would never forget.<br />When Brighid was chased down by the earl's minions she gave herself up to them without a fight. She knew that resisting would only bring more tragedy to her poor family and put her brothers lives in danger. Brighid was under no illusion as to why she was being taken to the earl's home but she was surprised<br />to find that the man who was going to ruin her was not the earl but the handsome man who had saved their lives earlier. Jamie couldn't believe his eyes as his friend presented him with the<br />beautiful girl from the funeral dressed in a provocative gown that set his blood on fire.He was torn between his sense of honor and justice and his powerful desire for her. He could not refuse her and leave her to his friend's tender mercies but could he trust himself to keep his hands off her?<br />I bought this book because I had enjoyed the authors first effort and also because I found the premise interesting. It was hard to give this book a low rating when I had no problem with the writing or the premise. In the end I just did not find the hero and heroine compelling enough to give this book a higher rating.I did not feel touched or affected in any way by their story. For me a five star read would be one that leaves me thinking about the characters long after I turn the last page, one that makes me sigh long after I closed the book. In short my emotions have to be engaged in order for me to consider a book a keeper and this book simply did not do that for me. I know this is highly subjective but then again a review of anything usually is. I recommend this read with many reservations.a five star read would be one that leaves me thinking about the characters long after I turn the last page, one that makes me sigh long after I closed the book. In short my emotions have to be engaged in order for me to consider a book a keeper and this book simply did not do that for me. I know this is highly subjective but then again a review of anything usually is. I recommend this read with many reservations.	2004-03-24
US	42666214	R2XST0OVJ00TFC	0425194574	188673615	Fair Play (New York Blades)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Theresa Falconetti has 2 cardinal rules:	She will never, ever date an italian man or a hockey player. Unfortunately for Michael Dante, who has fallen head over heels for her, he is both of those things. Michael, a hockey player for the NY Blades, refuses to give up and pursues Theresa with a determination that manages to both please and annoy her but mostly annoy her. Theresa has enough on her plate what with a huge corporation trying to take over the PR business she and her friend Janna have sweated blood to keep from going under and her father dying of cancer. The last thing she needs is the confusing feelings she is developing for Michael. But Michael is not easily intimidated by Theresa's rebuffs because unlike her he knows that they are meant for each other. He knows about the emotional scars she keeps carefully hidden and so he won't give up until she realizes that he's the only man for her. However, poor Michael will have to bend over backwards and then some to win the heart of the reluctant Theresa and bring about a happily ever after.<br />The best thing about this book was Michael. He is so adorable, sweet and romantic it is impossible not to fall in love with him. Theresa, on the other hand, is a trial. Her stubborness and her utter stupidity when it came to Michael made me want to bludgeon her repeatedly over the head with a sharp object. However, I still consider the book a keeper because Ms. martin has created the perfect beta hero in Michael and while I found hard to like Theresa she won me over by the end. I recommend this book for those who would love a sweet, funny, endearing hero (read: no alpha male antics) and a lighthearted story that's also light on the love scenes (very mild love scenes).	2004-03-09
US	42666214	R53AB3YTVLR9W	0515136263	363923998	Chesapeake Blue (The Chesapeake Bay Saga, Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A beautiful ending to the Quinn family saga	After globetrotting for several years succesful artist Seth Quinn has finally returned home to his beloved family. He finds nothing much has changed since he left.His family is a little older but still tightly knit and boisterous as ever. However, one thing did change in his absence.The sleepy town of St. Chris  has a new resident, the mysterious and reserved Drusilla Whitcomb Banks.<br />Dru is the daughter of a wealthy and powerful Washington family and because of her family's wealth and connections she has learned the hard way the perils of letting people get too close and personal. So, while Seth is instantly smitten with her she tries to keep him at arms length. But Dru did not count on being so attracted to the sinfully handsome and extremely charming Seth and she had no idea how determined he could be. Before long she finds she can't stop thinking about him and his wonderful family. She is utterly charmed with the down to earth, affectionate Quinns. Although at first she feels like a fish out of water with such a large, loud, outspoken family so different from her own but she is soon regarded as Seth's girl and so therefore a part of the family. Dru has no idea what to do with that and the dangerous feelings Seth is awakening in her, feelings she swore she would never allow herself to feel for anyone again. On the other hand, Seth does not question his feelings for Dru but someone from his past reappears in his life threatening his family and because of his connection to him, Dru herself.<br />I thought it would be hard to pick a favorite book from an author with such an impressive backlist. But after reading this book it was actually very easy. This book is just an absolute joy to read. Seth is sweet, charming, sensitive and doesn't suffer from the emotional constipation that so many romance heroes seem to be afflicted with. What I mean is that Seth is open about his felings for Dru from the start and readily admits his love for her and that is indeed a rare treat for me. On the other hand, Dru was a little harder to like at first and this is a problem I have with many of Roberts heroines. In my opinion they tend to come across as too self contained and aloof and at the beginning of the book Dru seemed to exhibit those annoying qualities. However, as the story progresses Dru slowly sheds the icy facade layer by layer and little by little the reader discovers the reasons for her coolness towards Seth and by the end it is a delight to see her transformation into a warm and loving woman. So, in the end I loved Dru as much as Seth. Finally, what I loved even more that Seth and Dru's perfect love was revisiting the awesome, larger than life Quinn family. Roberts has such a rare gift for realistically portraying the intricate dynamics of family and male bonding and as a result she makes her characters come alive and seem so real to the reader.The scenes with the Quinn family and the interactions between Seth and his brothers are priceless.I had absolutely no quibbles with this book at all so I consider this book a perfect read in every way. In case there's any doubt I highly recommend Chesapeake Blue and while I think the book is stand alone I strongly suggest reading the first three books (Sea Swept, Rising Tides, Inner Harbor) in order to appreciate the perfection that is this book. :0)treat for me. On the other hand, Dru was a little harder to like at first and this is a problem I have with many of Roberts heroines. In my opinion they tend to come across as too self contained and aloof and at the beginning of the book Dru seemed to exhibit those annoying qualities. However, as the story progresses Dru slowly sheds the icy facade layer by layer and little by little the reader discovers the reasons for her coolness towards Seth and by the end it is a delight to see her transformation into a warm and loving woman. So, in the end I loved Dru as much as Seth. Finally, what I loved even more that Seth and Dru's perfect love was revisiting the awesome, larger than life Quinn family. Roberts has such a rare gift for realistically portraying the intricate dynamics of family and male bonding and as a result she makes her characters come alive and seem so real to the reader.The scenes with the Quinn family and the interactions between Seth and his brothers are priceless.I had absolutely no quibbles with this book at all so I consider this book a perfect read in every way. In case there's any doubt I highly recommend Chesapeake Blue and while I think the book is stand alone I strongly suggest reading the first three books (Sea Swept, Rising Tides, Inner Harbor) in order to appreciate the perfection that is this book. :0)	2004-03-05
US	42666214	RSODG3Z9XZF61	006000925X	604164454	Daisy's Back in Town	Books	3	6	8	N	Y	3 1/2 STARS	Fifteen years ago Daisy stomped all over Jack's heart when she married his best friend and hightailed it out of Texas shortly after his parents died in a car crash. Jack had thought the years had softened the sharp edge of betrayal until the night Daisy showed up at his house demanding to speak with him. Her presence opened old wounds that he had thought were healed and Jack is determined to steel his heart against her. But there's just one teensy problem: Daisy won't get the hint and leave him alone. She follows him everywhere and won't leave him alone until he hears her out but Jack has no interest in what Daisy has to say.It's just that no matter how hard he tries to keep her at a distance eventually Daisy manages to worm her way back into his head and eventually his heart. However, happily ever after won't come easy because Jack finds it impossible to forget and after finding out that Daisy kept his son a secret from him for fifteen years he finds it even harder still to forgive.<br />In my opinion what makes Rachel Gibson's books special is her unique ability to write &quot;real&quot; people. By the time I finish one of her books I feel as if I've known these people all of my life. This book is no exception to that rule. The main characters are never boring and Nathan, Daisy and Jack's son, was a joy to read.What kept this book from being a keeper for me was Daisy and her past actions which I thought were inexcusable and callous and I did not think she ever really redeemed herself. I also thought that Jack's forgiveness of Daisy was much too abrupt and was not in sync with his character. In my opinion he should have made Daisy grovel just a tad bit before admitting his love for her. In the end I just could not suspend disbelief long enough to accept that Jack could get over Daisy's actions so easily and so quickly. The book also suffers from weak second characters which do not really serve to move the plot along. In short, I think that if this book had been written by any other author it would have been great but by the author of one of my favorite contemporaries of all time (See Jane Score) it is merely so-so.tten by any other author it would have been great but by the author of one of my favorite contemporaries of all time (See Jane Score) it is merely so-so.	2004-02-06
US	42666214	R1DA941IG1563I	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Trust Lisa Kleypas to always deliver a good story....	and while this book is no exception strangely enough the love story between Aline and Mckenna isn't what got this book a place on my keeper shelf.<br />McKenna and Aline have been playmates since they were small children but of late their feelings and their games have changed to something more profound and infinitely more dangerous. Their love could never be because Mckenna is a lowly stable boy and Aline is a lady, the daughter of a peer. Mckenna knows nothing could come of their feelings for each other and tries to hold Aline off but in the end he cannot help himself. So, eventually the inevitable happens and they get caught in a passionate embrace.Aline's father finds out and Aline has no choice but to send Mckenna away in order to keep her father from destroying him. Aline gives a fairly convincing performance and succeeds in breaking his heart and thus sending him away from her forever.<br />Twelve years later Aline is older and wiser and when she discovers that Mckenna is among the filthy rich Americans who have come to do business with her brother she is sure she can handle the emotional turmoil that his presence will cause. Aline has no idea that Mckenna came back not for business but for revenge. He believes she used him and then tossed him aside like so much rubbish and so he is determined to make her life a living hell. However, he didn't count on the powerful feelings that would resurface upon seeing her again. Discovering that she has not married in all these years is troubling since he was sure her father was going to sell her to the highest bidder.Moreover,the bits and pieces about a long illness she suffered after he left makes things all the more baffling. On the other hand, Aline's defenses are slowly crumbling before the onslaught of emotion and desire that Mckenna's presence arouses in her. She knows she is in serious danger of uncovering her darkest most terrifying secret. She thinks she can stand his hatred but never his pity and surely those are the only emotions he would feel if he was to dicover her secret.<br />There's a secondary story involving Aline's sister Livia and McKenna's American millionaire friend Gideon Shaw. Livia lost her fiancee to a terrible accident and shortly after miscarried their child. The latter caused a scandal from which she has never recovered and so she refrains from joining her sister and brother in welcoming their guests.Gideon takes a break from the  evening festivities to go outside presumably for a walk but what he really needs ia good drink from his ever present flask. He sees a young woman of average looks dancing in the garden to the music coming from inside. He is instantly intrigued by this unconventional, mysterious creature. They share a dance under the moonlight and Livia is struck with wonder by this man with the look of fallen archangel and the pain filled eyes. Gideon Shaw is terribly handsome, charming, confident and a bit arrogant. In Livia's opinion he is the quintessential American but she can see that behind the naughty boy facade hides a man in turmoil who is apparently bent on slowly drinking himself to death. Livia knows there can be nothing but heartbreak in falling in love with a man like him and so she keeps her emotions in check. But Gideon is unable to keep himself from falling madly in love with Livia even though he is aware of his unsuitability and his shortcomings.Is his love for Livia strong enough to pull him away from his path to self-destruction? Read and find out you will not regret it.<br />I have a strong aversion to secondary romances mostly because I feel they take away from the main characters and their story. However, this book is the exception to that rule because the secondary romance was what made it a keeper for me. Take out Livia and Gideon's story and you'd have an enjoyable but average book but put it in and you have a winner. Aline and Mckenna's story made for a good read but I didn't find Mckenna compelling<br />enough as ahero and Aline was much too stubborn for her own good. It seemed to me that the conflict in their story could have been solved with a good long talk but it was instead dragged out for so long that,in my opinion, eventually became<br />irritating. On the other hand, in Gideon Ms. Kleypas created a wonderful hero. He of the fallen angel good looks,the tortured just-needs-the-love-of-a-good-woman kind of hero that just makes me melt into a big fat puddle. My only regret is that Ms. Kleypas didn't make this book Gideon and Livia's story with Aline and Mckenna as the secondary characters. In short, I give Aline and Mckenna's story three stars and Gideon and Livia's five stars. Highly recommended :0)nd Aline was much too stubborn for her own good. It seemed to me that the conflict in their story could have been solved with a good long talk but it was instead dragged out for so long that,in my opinion, eventually became<BR>irritating. On the other hand, in Gideon Ms. Kleypas created a wonderful hero. He of the fallen angel good looks,the tortured just-needs-the-love-of-a-good-woman kind of hero that just makes me melt into a big fat puddle. My only regret is that Ms. Kleypas didn't make this book Gideon and Livia's story with Aline and Mckenna as the secondary characters. In short, I give Aline and Mckenna's story three stars and Gideon and Livia's five stars. Highly recommended :0)	2004-02-03
US	42666214	R25O3FRGHF6YXL	0451208153	976461395	The Iron Rose	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A Rollicking Good Time!	This book proves my assertion that Marsha Canham is without equal when it comes to writing adventure filled romances.<br />This is the swashbuckling tale of Juliet Dante, the fiercely independent daughter of Simon and Beau Dante who starred in another marvelous Canham book called Across a Moonlit Sea (this book stands on its own, however). Juliet is captain of her own ship The Iron Rose and one day while taking her ship out for a test run she runs across a Spanish galleon kicking the tar out of an English ship. She gallantly runs to the English ships rescue and jumps right into the fray. By the time the cannons are silenced Juliet and her crew have captured a huge Spanish treasure ship and rescued most of the crew of the English ship. However, Juliet's joy is short lived when she discovers the English ship she just saved was carrying an emmissary from King James. Varian St Clare, the duke of Harrow, was sent on a mission of utmost importance to King James. He is to persuade the privateers, including the Dantes, to honor a peace treaty with Spain which means they must immediately cease the attacks on the Spanish ships sailing to Spain from the New World chock full of treasure. Juliet is outraged that this fop dressed in velvet and feathers would dare to even suggest such a thing especially when Spain violated the last treaty by murdering the surrendering privateers. Regardless of how she feels Juliet is stuck with the disturbingly handsome nobleman. She agrees to take him to meet her father as her hostage.On the other hand, Varian's manly pride takes a blow when he realizes he is being taken hostage by a female and things only get worse when he realizes he is disturbingly aroused by said female. Never in his wildest dreams could he have thought that he'd be attracted to a fierce, strong, foul-mouthed woman who disdains his title and everything he stands for but also dares to manhandle him. Soon, Varian realizes that he loves Juliet and not in spite of her unusual qualities but because of them.<br />I absolutely loved the way the author turned the romance formula<br />upside down with Juliet's character. I am sure that Juliet<br />is one of the most amazing heroines I've ever come across. She is a fierce warrior but make no mistake she is also a woman who is fully aware of herself and completely in touch with her sensuality. She is the one who seduces Varian which I found incredibly refreshing. Varian is no mincing fop either, his  quiet strength is the perfect foil for Juliet's strong personality. I also found that the vivid descriptions of battle and the pirate's way of life make for a heart pounding read. While I was reading this book all I kept thinking was what a great movie this would make. All in all The Iron Rose makes for a very satisfying read. Highly recommended :0)ities but because of them. <br />I absolutely loved the way the author turned the romance formula<BR>upside down with Juliet's character. I am sure that Juliet<BR>is one of the most amazing heroines I've ever come across. She is a fierce warrior but make no mistake she is also a woman who is fully aware of herself and completely in touch with her sensuality. She is the one who seduces Varian which I found incredibly refreshing. Varian is no mincing fop either, his  quiet strength is the perfect foil for Juliet's strong personality. I also found that the vivid descriptions of battle and the pirate's way of life make for a heart pounding read. While I was reading this book all I kept thinking was what a great movie this would make. All in all The Iron Rose makes for a very satisfying read. Highly recommended :0)	2004-01-14
US	42666214	R1P2ZOEAFJWSP8	037383599X	563216117	Simply Sensual (The Simply Series, Book 3)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	I usually stick to full length novels because	I feel these abbreviated series romances do not always allow the author to fully flesh out the characters and so I usually find them lacking. This book, although very well written was no different.<br />This is the story of P.I. Ben Callahan who is contracted by a matchmaking grandmama to follow her granddaughter, Grace, to make sure she's safe and report back on her activities. It seems that Grace has recently renounced her blue bloodlines and decided it is time to live on her own efforts rather than on Daddy's cash. Grandma is understandably worried since Grace is all alone in New York and so Ben swallows her unlikely story and despite his own misgivings accepts to befriend Grace and report all back to Grandma. However, things become a little difficult for Ben when Grace gets a load of his gorgeous self and decides to seduce him.<br />There was very little I enjoyed about this book. First, I thought it was well-written and the love scenes were very steamy. But in the end I simply could not care for either Ben or Grace and I never felt as if I knew who they were supposed to be. The relationship seemed to me to be based on their mutual attraction, their sexual chemistry and not much else. Also, the plot was flimsy and the matchmaking grandma plot device was in my opinion just plain silly. In short, while this book was an easy read, the relationship was too superficial for my taste. I will give this author's full length novels a try though because I really did enjoy her writing style. Recommended with many reservations :0)	2004-01-05
US	42666214	RQJLYTNIIXUP3	0971305609	974631339	The Reader's Notebook	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	It is a lovely notebook however it was not for me	all I really wanted was some place where I could keep track of the books I read and my thoughts on them. This book is wondefully laid out but it is oriented more for people who belong to reding groups or book clubs etc. If you just want a little book diary for yourself then do not buy this book. Do yourself a favor and buy a regular notebook but if you do belong to a group or like to discuss your books then this is an excellent buy.	2004-01-05
US	42666214	RPYYJDKNUGK80	0553585916	249728210	The Charmer (Seducer)	Books	5	40	41	N	N	I was very disappointed when Madeline Hunter decided to	abandon the medieval period for the regency period. I was further disappointed by the first book in this series The Seducer that while extremely well written and readable did not pack the emotional punch of her previous efforts. I am happy to report that with The Charmer Madeline Hunter is once again at the top of her game and at the top of my autobuy list.<br />Adrian Burchard the third, unwanted son of an Earl is sent to Paris on a mission to bring the errant Duchess of Everdon back to England. After the death of her cold, autocratic father Sofia Raughley has been made Duchess in her own right.This means she now holds one of the most powerful titles in the peerage. Adrian's task is to bring Sofia back not because anyone is interested in her personal well being but because she now has the power to sway key votes in the Tories favor to help defeat the Reform Bill. Sofia is under no illusions as to why she is being summoned back with such haste by the King and others. She is to be used again as a pawn by powerful men who will try to marry her off so they can put a man in control of Everdon again. She refuses to accompany Adrian back but he is not a man who can be easily dissuaded from his mission especially by a seemingly decadent, spoiled, petulant woman. The stench of revolution permeates England and his own future hangs in the balance thus in this Adrian cannot fail. So, he does the only thing a man in his position would do he throws her over his shoulder and forcibly hauls her off across the Channel. Before long though Adrian realizes that there's much more to Sofia than the haughty, frivolous demeanor she presents to the world. Little by little and in his own quiet understanding way he begins to peel away Sofia's layers to uncover the tortured,terrified but strong woman that hides beneath.<br />I loved this book for many reasons but the most important is that this book is about a relationship between a man and a woman. By this I mean that while there's intrigue, a villain and a rich historical backdrop Adrian and Sofia's love story remains firmly in the center. Also,Madeline Hunter's quiet almost lyrical prose makes this book a pleasure to read. Furthermore, the characters are unique, believable and fully fleshed out. Sofia is a strong, intelligent heroine and Adrian is to die for. Something else I loved about this story was that the hero never fought his feelings for Sofia. He was in love and without mincing any words he let her know it. To me, this was a refreshing change because any die hard romance reader knows the hero usually fights his feelings for the heroine almost to the last page. In short, Madeline Hunter has created an unique, moving love story with credible and memorable characters who will stay with you long after you turn the last page. Highly recommended :0), a villain and a rich historical backdrop Adrian and Sofia's love story remains firmly in the center. Also,Madeline Hunter's quiet almost lyrical prose makes this book a pleasure to read. Furthermore, the characters are unique, believable and fully fleshed out. Sofia is a strong, intelligent heroine and Adrian is to die for. Something else I loved about this story was that the hero never fought his feelings for Sofia. He was in love and without mincing any words he let her know it. To me, this was a refreshing change because any die hard romance reader knows the hero usually fights his feelings for the heroine almost to the last page. In short, Madeline Hunter has created an unique, moving love story with credible and memorable characters who will stay with you long after you turn the last page. Highly recommended :0)	2003-12-23
US	42666214	RDG0EO3ORHL3J	0440224551	493502975	Blood of Roses	Books	5	29	29	N	Y	Emotional, heart rending sequel to the Pride of Lions	Although I have gotten a little teary eyed over certain stories over the years, this is the first and only time that I actually openly wept while reading a book. After I finished reading this book I felt as if my heart had been physically snatched out of my chest, wrung out and then hung up and left to rot. I know that's a little dramatic but the emotional upheaval that this book has caused in me calls for a little drama.<br />This is the continuing epic love story of Alex and Catherine Cameron two seemingly star crossed lovers who are repeatedly torn apart by the events that take place during and after the doomed Jacobite rebellion of 1745. The author's vivid descriptions of this dark period in Scotland's history brought to vivrant life a bit of history I knew nothing about. Through Ms. Canham's flawless writing I was able to feel Catherine's despair at having to see her husband go off to war without knowing if she'd ever see him again. Also, I was able to comprehend her inability, at first, to understand what drove her husband and the other Highlanders to fight agaisnt such insurmountable odds. On the other hand, Alexander's desperate attempts to shield his wife from the ugliness of war and to keep her safe from the repercussions that would surely some after the debacle was over were equally vivid. His attempts to keep her safe were met with derision by Catherine who now considers herself a Scot and is determined to take her place by her husband's side even if it means giving up the gilded world of the aristocracy and putting her life on the line. Catherine's believable evolution from a selfish, self centered girl to a mature, strong woman who will do anything for the man she loves is a testament to this author's skill as a writer.While this is very much Alex and Catherine's story, it is also the story of a people who will fight to the death for honor. A people who are driven by a sense of loyalty so strong that they are willing to pay the ultimate price for what they believe is right.<br />This is not an easy book to read and it is almost impossible to summarize and review in an objective manner while I'm still so emotional over it. Suffice it to say that it's an epic love story; one that I know will haunt you long after you've turned the last page. This is not say there isn't a happily ever after, there is but it is a bittersweet one.In short, I highly recommend this book to those who love historical romances but be warned that this author does not wallpaper her book with history as so many others do she uses it heavily to immerse the reader into this time period and she does it brilliantly. Highly recommended. :)they believe is right. <br />This is not an easy book to read and it is almost impossible to summarize and review in an objective manner while I'm still so emotional over it. Suffice it to say that it's an epic love story; one that I know will haunt you long after you've turned the last page. This is not say there isn't a happily ever after, there is but it is a bittersweet one.In short, I highly recommend this book to those who love historical romances but be warned that this author does not wallpaper her book with history as so many others do she uses it heavily to immerse the reader into this time period and she does it brilliantly. Highly recommended. :)	2003-08-06
US	42666214	R1HV5ZV44H3DL1	0440224578	493473150	The Pride of Lions	Books	5	55	56	N	Y	WOW!	None of the historicals I've read over the years could have prepared me for the emotional roller coaster that this book and its sequel put me through. I'm also left wondering why it has taken me so long to discover this incomparable author.<br />Beautiful, pampered, spoiled and aristocratic Catherine Ashbrooke is shocked to discover a tall, muscular half naked stranger bathing in a creek that runs through her father's lands. She's even more shocked to discover that this<br />breathtakingly handsome stranger is seemingly immune to her<br />charms. How dare he! does he not realize she's the toast of London. No matter that she's supposedly in love with Hamilton Garner, a handsome officer, no man alive has ever met Catherine and not fallen instantly to his knees in worship. She would certainly show him! and in the process she would finally bring the reticent Lieutenant Garner to propose. Except that Catherine's devious plan backfires and she finds herself both being kissed senseless by the raven haired stranger and the cause of a duel to the death between the dashing Mr. Montgomery and the infatuated Lt. Garner.<br />While Lt. Garner is an experienced swordsman he is no match for Mr. Raefer Montgomery and soon finds himself wounded but alive. Montgomery refuses to deliver the killing blow humiliating Lt. Garner and winning the hand of the pampered Miss Ashbrooke in the process.<br />The mysterious Mr. Montgomery does not want or need a wife and in his current situation it could prove to be deadly for both of them. He must keep his temperamental new wife from finding out his true identity so he must annul the marriage as soon as humanly possible. Except that the intrepid Catherine already knows his secret, her handsome new husband is not Raefer Montgomery but Alexander Cameron the legendary Dark Cameron of Scotland.<br />Exiled and wanted for murder,a spy for the Jacobite rebels with a hefty price on his head, Alexander can't risk having his pretty wife reveal his identity. So, Catherine is taken to Scotland virtually kicking and screaming the whole way. Meanwhile,Catherine makes a great show of her dislike for her husband and her circumstances but increasingly she finds herself flustered by his presence, burning for his kisses and admiring<br />the complex, enigmatic man she married. On the other hand, Alex has had to force himself to keep his hands off of his desirable wife. She's an unwanted complication, spoiled, selfish and vain and slowly working his way into his heart a heart he thought he had buried some fifteen years before.<br />This book is first and foremost a romance but it's also a historical novel rich in detail which some readers may not find quite as interesting as I did. The romance doesnt suffer from the detailed descriptions but is instead brought to life in such a way that you can almost see the wild moors of the Scottish Highlands and feel the tension of a country poised for war. The only bad thing about this book is that Ms. Canham has spoiled me for any other heroes. After reading about the larger than life Alexander Cameron I'm afraid every hero I read now or in the future will be sadly lacking because he's that unbelievable. She has also created a worthy heroine in Catherine. The reader is able to see the spoiled, pampered girl evolving slowly into a young woman in love. In short, I can't recommend this book enough, it has churned my emotions as no other book ever had. If you love historical romance do not miss this book. A piece of advice, buy this book along with the sequel you'll kick yourself in you don't (as I did). Highly recommended. :)ty. So, Catherine is taken to Scotland virtually kicking and screaming the whole way. Meanwhile,Catherine makes a great show of her dislike for her husband and her circumstances but increasingly she finds herself flustered by his presence, burning for his kisses and admiring <BR>the complex, enigmatic man she married. On the other hand, Alex has had to force himself to keep his hands off of his desirable wife. She's an unwanted complication, spoiled, selfish and vain and slowly working his way into his heart a heart he thought he had buried some fifteen years before.<br />This book is first and foremost a romance but it's also a historical novel rich in detail which some readers may not find quite as interesting as I did. The romance doesnt suffer from the detailed descriptions but is instead brought to life in such a way that you can almost see the wild moors of the Scottish Highlands and feel the tension of a country poised for war. The only bad thing about this book is that Ms. Canham has spoiled me for any other heroes. After reading about the larger than life Alexander Cameron I'm afraid every hero I read now or in the future will be sadly lacking because he's that unbelievable. She has also created a worthy heroine in Catherine. The reader is able to see the spoiled, pampered girl evolving slowly into a young woman in love. In short, I can't recommend this book enough, it has churned my emotions as no other book ever had. If you love historical romance do not miss this book. A piece of advice, buy this book along with the sequel you'll kick yourself in you don't (as I did). Highly recommended. :)	2003-08-04
US	42666214	R33JUHEGQSHMQT	0060081651	918735646	The Second Coming of Lucy Hatch: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Why is this book a keeper?	Two words: Ash Farrell. Be still my heart! just typing his name brings on palpitations.Oh and the rest of the book is pretty good too. Seriously, the best part about this book (besides you know who) is the author's perfect, almost lyrical prose. Through her words the reader can feel Lucy's harrowing guilt, her feelings of not having been worthy enough for her dead husband,you can see and feel Mooney,Texas and it's gossipy but noble hearted residents. It is a book about a woman who gets a second chance at living and loving and how she finally comes to terms with the loss of her husband and fourteen years of her life. Although the ending does feel a bit rushed it is still a keeper for me. The good news is that there is a sequel and I for one can't wait to re-visit Mooney one more time. Highly recommended :-)	2003-06-03
US	42666214	R1MRYW2BJSDBE9	0515123692	120950184	My Darling Caroline	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	Actually, I would give this book three and a half stars	because it was entertaining although I thought the pacing was a little off at times and the dialogue a bit stilted and quite modern in some instances. However, I am always willing to overlook modern dialogue and an over-used plot as long as the author manages to keep me interested for 338 pages and Ms. Ashworth certainly accomplished that.<br />Caroline Grayson is a gifted botanist with the unladylike dream of traveling to America to study botany at Columbia University. However, her dream is shattered when her father announces that she's to be wed to the Earl of Weymerth. The Earl is also being forced to wed in order to obtain back his estate that was sold from under him while he was in the continent battling Napoleon.Caroline sees this a brilliant opportunity to put her plan into motion. She plans to wed the handsome earl and then ask him for an anullment (sp?). To her mind this should be a simple thing to do since she does not care for him and he certainly doesn't care for her. What Caroline never considered was that the Earl might want a wife and that she might end up wanting to be a wife to him thereby giving up the dream of a lifetime.<br />This arranged marriage plot is certainly overused in historicals but in this book the author makes it work. As I understand this was the author's first book so that might explain the sometimes ackward pacing of the story. I disliked the extraneous plot involving an assassin from the hero's past. It seemed that it was inserted into the story as an after thought and did not really mesh with the love story being told. Also, there were many characters like Davis the horse trainer and Caroline's sisters that appeared in one or two scenes and were never to be seen or heard from again with no explanation. Another quibble was having two characters named Charlotte (one was the hero's sister and the other the heroines!) which made it very confusing. Also, the dialogue at times sounded much too modern for a novel set in the Regency period, this is a minor problem but it did jolt me out of the story a few times. Having said that, I have to admit that this was quite a love story and it does not really suffer all that much from the things I have listed above. The romance and the way the author turned overused plot devices and made them unique to her story was able to make up for those shortcomings very well.For example, the hero and heroine recognize their love early on which I found very unusual and the requisite big-misunderstanding is not dragged on interminably.Overall, this was a very satisfying read and I will be looking foward to reading this author's other works. :-)eriod, this is a minor problem but it did jolt me out of the story a few times. Having said that, I have to admit that this was quite a love story and it does not really suffer all that much from the things I have listed above. The romance and the way the author turned overused plot devices and made them unique to her story was able to make up for those shortcomings very well.For example, the hero and heroine recognize their love early on which I found very unusual and the requisite big-misunderstanding is not dragged on interminably.Overall, this was a very satisfying read and I will be looking foward to reading this author's other works. :-)	2003-05-22
US	42666214	R18SJCFNGSQG0L	0440241049	880815333	Slightly Married	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Slightly imperfect but enjoyable nonetheless..	I guess it would be kind of difficult even for Mary Balogh to top herself after the incredible romance that was A Summer to Remember. Even so, this book still manages to be a keeper regardless of the generic plot.<br />This is the first book starring the formidable Bedwyn family first introduced in ASTR. Colonel Lord Aidan Bedwyn has made a battlefield promise to a fallen comrade to protect his sister Eve \\"no matter what\\". Ever so dutiful, Aidan takes that promise very seriously. So seriously in fact that he is willing to marry said sister in order to protect her from imminent homelessness. Eve is a proud woman (with a bit of a past) and she would have never accepted what Lord Aidan offered if it wasn't for the unconventional family she is responsible for. Eve's family consists mostly of orphans, abused women and ex convicts and she will do anything to protect them including marrying a man she dislikes on sight. So the plan is quite simple: it will be a marriage of convenience with no strings attached. That is until Aidan's older brother the powerful, awe inspiring Duke of Bewcastle gets wind of the situation and orders Eve to London immediately to be presented to society as Lady Aidan Bedwyn. Not because he is happy about the union (he isn't.She is a mere coal miners daughter, after all) but because it is his duty to protect the illustrious Bedwyn name from gossip and scandal. So, with a lift of his aristocratic brow the duke throws Eve into Aidan's sphere forcing their brains to recognize what their hearts already had.<br />Anyone who reads romance will recognize this plot and agree that is has been done to death. However, Balogh manages to take the tiresome, overused marriage of convenience and turn it into a sweet, sometimes poignant story of two people who have found their life long mate but due to circumstances or their own stubborness are unable to accept it. Watching them come to terms with their feelings and the seeming impossibility of those feelings ever being reciprocated is what romance is all about.As I said before this book cannot compare to Balogh's previous effort but even her worst book (is there such a thing?) is better than other authors best any day. I was very tempted to give this book five stars if only for the apperance of the formidable Duke of Bewcastle who fairly steals the story from Eve and Aidan. Alas, I couldn't get over the been there done that feeling so four stars it is but still I highly recommend it. :-)being reciprocated is what romance is all about.As I said before this book cannot compare to Balogh's previous effort but even her worst book (is there such a thing?) is better than other authors best any day. I was very tempted to give this book five stars if only for the apperance of the formidable Duke of Bewcastle who fairly steals the story from Eve and Aidan. Alas, I couldn't get over the been there done that feeling so four stars it is but still I highly recommend it. :-)	2003-05-19
US	42666214	R25EQS7NCWINJ2	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	This book was not meant to be read......	it was meant to be devoured which I certainly did. This book has one of the hottest, most intriguing opening chapters I have ever read.<br />Bentley Rutledge is the bad boy we all love to love. He has made drinking, gambling and all around debauchery his purpose in life. So when beautiful broken-hearted Frederica makes him a offer he can't refuse, he doesn't. However, the morning after Bentley finds that his long dormant conscience has reawakened and is pelting him with accussations. He can't handle the confusing mix of emotions and so he flees leaving a sleeping Frederica a hastily scribbled proposal. Frederica awakens to an empty bed and to the realization that her tender lover of the night before has dissapeared without so much as a goodbye (the proposal, literally, flew out the window). Soon enough Freddie starts to suffer the consequences of that night of pleasure and with Bentley nowhere to be found, what's a girl in her situation to do? Find someone to marry, of course. But Freddie finds that deep in her heart there's only one man she wants and he, it seems, does not want her. What Freddie does not realize is that Bentley's feelings for her run much deeper that she or he, for that matter, can imagine and that the real reason for his actions is fear. Bentley is afraid because he is convinced that in spite of how he feels he simply isn't good enough for her.<br />Can Freddie bring the outwardly careless but inwardly troubled Hell-Bent Rutledge to his knees? Yes she can and the best part of this book is watching her do just that.<br />I did not care at all for this authors last book. The emphasis on the murder/suspense plot really turned me off. However, in this book the emphasis is where it should be. That is on Bentley and Freddie's relationship and their journey to a happily ever after. Carlyle's writing is flawless and the love scenes are exquisitely written. On the other hand, I felt that the appearance of so many characters from her other books weighed the story down for me. The reason for this may be that I haven't read all of the books in this author's backlist. Still, I felt that this book does not stand alone so if you have not read her other works you might find yourself a bit lost. Regardless of this I still highly recommend this book because Bentley and Freddie's perfect love outshines all of that.tory down for me. The reason for this may be that I haven't read all of the books in this author's backlist. Still, I felt that this book does not stand alone so if you have not read her other works you might find yourself a bit lost. Regardless of this I still highly recommend this book because Bentley and Freddie's perfect love outshines all of that.	2003-04-22
US	42666214	RZY84P88WCCEO	0440236630	230297888	A Summer to Remember (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	I am of the opinion that this book should be mandatory..	reading for every aspiring author (and some professional ones too). Maybe then we readers would be spared some of those atrocious, embarrasing books that are being published nowadays (and become bestsellers too!! Who buys this dreck???) Anyway, the point of that rant is that Mary Balogh has produced a gem of a book, a true keeper in every sense of the words.<br />After his older brother's untimely death the notorious Kit Butler inherited the title of Viscount Ravensberg (sp). His family, aghast at Kit's exploits in London order him home immediately to take his rightful place as the heir to a powerful earldom and also to fulfill his duty by marrying a bride chosen by his father and producing heirs. Kit, already estranged from his family, balks at his family's command and decides that he will find his own bride and marry on his own terms not his father's. He will even go a step further and instead of choosing someone completely unsuitable as his family would expect he decides he will choose the perfect lady.<br />Lauren Edgeworth is the perfect lady. She has devoted her whole life to perfecting the art of being a lady. She thrives on prediction and takes comfort in routine. In short, Lauren Edgeworth is a dead bore (or so Kit thinks) therefore she is the ideal woman for his plans. Lauren surprises him by agreeing to be his fiancee in name only until he can find a bride not of his father's choosing. In exchange, Lauren wants Kit to give her a summer she will never forget. He readily agrees. At the end of Lauren's perfect summer she will break off the betrothal and move to Bath to begin the life a respectable spinster. However, for Kit this was easier said than done because he was not prepared for the other side of Lauren. He finds himself captivated by the woman hiding behind the icy facade, apparently afraid to come out. Since Kit is not one to resist a challenge he is determined to bring that woman out. In the process he finds himself caring far too much for his \\"pretend\\" fiancee.<br />Lauren, on the other hand is determined to leave at the end of the summer with her heart intact. After her first wedding was scandalously aborted (see One Night for Love) Lauren is convinced she will never be able to love again. However, she is not made of stone and very soon she finds herself hopessly drawn to Kit. His devil-may-care attitude fascinates her and the pain she glimpses behind his laughing eyes and happy-go-lucky attitude brings her dangerously close to falling madly in love.<br />Balogh has outdone herself with Kit and Lauren. Never before have I read a book with characters that were so perfect for one another. Kit is an absolute joy to read, his charm and endearing ways had me sighing over and over. Also, the dialogue sparkles and the developing relationship between Kit and Lauren is belivable and incredibly executed. I have said before that Balogh is the closest one can get to a modern day Jane Austen and this book just reinforces my opinion. In short, this is an incredible book and I cannot recommend it enough. :0)nd\\" fiancee.<BR>Lauren, on the other hand is determined to leave at the end of the summer with her heart intact. After her first wedding was scandalously aborted (see One Night for Love) Lauren is convinced she will never be able to love again. However, she is not made of stone and very soon she finds herself hopessly drawn to Kit. His devil-may-care attitude fascinates her and the pain she glimpses behind his laughing eyes and happy-go-lucky attitude brings her dangerously close to falling madly in love.<br />Balogh has outdone herself with Kit and Lauren. Never before have I read a book with characters that were so perfect for one another. Kit is an absolute joy to read, his charm and endearing ways had me sighing over and over. Also, the dialogue sparkles and the developing relationship between Kit and Lauren is belivable and incredibly executed. I have said before that Balogh is the closest one can get to a modern day Jane Austen and this book just reinforces my opinion. In short, this is an incredible book and I cannot recommend it enough. :0)	2003-03-26
US	42666214	R1QEMI2I2MEZR4	0060085444	550428439	She Went All the Way	Books	2	7	9	N	N	an average read	This was my first Cabot book and although it has gotten raves by many readers I was not terribly impressed.<br />Lou Calabreze (sp) wrote an academy winning screenplay for a boyfriend actor who later thanks her by dumping her and eloping with his co-star. To make matters worse, the helicopter she's riding in on her way to a movie set with America's hottest actor Jack Townsend crashes in the Alaskan wilderness. Lou is now stranded with a man whom she loathes (because he's an actor, among other things) and to make matters worse someone is hell bent on killing Jack and Lou by association. Lou is determined she will get out of this situation with her life and her heart intact. However, this is easier said than done with a man like Jack Townsed around. What's a girl to do?<br />Th best part about this book is the heroine. Lou is an independent, modern woman who will not take ... from anyone including Jack. Her smart mouth and her witty retorts are the reason I give this book 2 stars. However, in this case the bad outweighs the good by a long shot.The worst thing about this book is the generic suspense plot. It dragged the whole book down for me. It seems that the trend now in romance novels is to throw in a few faceless baddies and a cartoonish villain, a love scene here and there and voila you have a romance novel. This book is a perfect example of this type of lazy writing. For example,the reasoning behind the murder attempts is laughable and the casual way in which everyone in the story handles the fact that there is an apparent madman among them is not realistic. Also, I felt that the only character that was fully fleshed out was Lou's. Jack and the rest were caricatures of real life Hollywood types. In short, this book is not a keeper but if you are in the mood for a bit of fluff then I recommend that you check it out of the library.<br />:)	2003-03-18
US	42666214	R1CW56QYOS5J8J	0843951354	441281383	Lord Ruin	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Excellent	One of the best things that can happen to an avid reader like myself is to discover a new author and I am happy to say that Ms. Jewel's book became a keeper by the second chapter. I didn't even have to finish it! That is not to say that this book is without its faults. It isn't.But the awesome, larger than life hero and the breathtaking romance more than make up for any shortcomings.<br />I will not discuss the plot since others before me have done so already. I will say that the best part of this book is Lord Ruin's evolution from a superficial, immoral rake to a tender, caring, loving husband. He finds that this time the tables are turned and the woman he has finally fallen irrevocably in love with does not love him. The sweet amd poignant ways in which he tries to gain that love and his inner turmoil at his failure to do so turned this reader's heart to mush. Also, Anne is the perfect match for Ruan in that she is intelligent, kind of heart and with a quiet strength that made her character virtually leap off the page. Without a doubt Ms. Jewel has created two of the most compelling characters I have ever come across in a romance novel.<br />However, the story does suffer from a weak suspense plot. The book could've done without it but it is a small quibble on my part and I was able to overlook it because the love story makes it up for it very nicely. All in all this an excellent read and  I will certainly be looking forward to Ms. Jewels next book which is hinted at through a very sensual scene towards the end of this book. Highly recommended. :)	2003-03-14
US	42666214	R3DCUHSBMZWY9U	0446602760	140890792	The Guardian	Books	2	11	14	N	N	My first book by this author and.....	although I thought it was a good read overall, there were several reasons why this book was not a keeper for me.<br />Anabelle and Stephen were brought together as children when his father the earl married Anabelle's mother. Stephen immediately befriended the young and scared Anabelle and in doing so won her undying loyalty. As they grew older their innocent childhood affection developed into a passionate love that neither of them could control.<br /> They were desperate to marry but alas Anabelle's scheming and ambitious mother refused to let her daughter marry a younger son. She was determined that Anabelle marry Stephen's brother, the future Earl. She got her wish when Stephen was banished to Jamaica after being caught smuggling.<br /> When Stephen left without any word to her, Anabelle felt betrayed, later when she found out she was pregnant she was terrified. There was no help for it but to do as her mother advised and marry Stephen's brother.<br /> When her husband dies and Stephen is named guardian of her son Anabelle's feelings for Stephen resurface and not even his unforgivable abandonment can quench the love that she feels when they meet again after five long years. How will stephen react when he learns he is a father and furthermore how will he feel when finds out he, by rights, should be the next Earl of Weston? Can their love survive the past lies and deceit?<br />I found this book to be extremely well written. The heroine's no nonsense personality was a refreshing change from the insipid, too stupid to live heroines that are present on every other historical nowadays. What I didn't like was that the whole story is told from Anabelle's point of view. This was a first for me and although it was a change from the ordinary I found that I didn't like it so much because the reader never gets to know what the hero is thinking or how he feels, only what Anabelle perceives he is thinking. This was the main reason I rated this book two stars, another reason was because I felt the book was a bit slow. I mean forty pages went by before the hero made an appearance. Way too much time was spent on horse talk and hunting nonsense which I found incredibly boring. This, however is purely personal taste.<br /> If you like hot love scenes and an edge of your seat plot, then stay away from this book. If you prefer mild love scenes and don't mine lots of drawing room coversation then this is the book for you.<br />Recommended with reservations. :0)cause I felt the book was a bit slow. I mean forty pages went by before the hero made an appearance. Way too much time was spent on horse talk and hunting nonsense which I found incredibly boring. This, however is purely personal taste. <BR> If you like hot love scenes and an edge of your seat plot, then stay away from this book. If you prefer mild love scenes and don't mine lots of drawing room coversation then this is the book for you. <br />Recommended with reservations. :0)	2003-02-27
US	42666214	RA4EMIK527SGD	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	rachel gibson just gets better and better...	with every book she writes. I think Gibson's talent lies in her ability to write sweet, light hearted romatic stories where the humor comes across as effortless and does not feel forced at any time.This book is an excellent example of her incredible talent. Jane Alcott's average looks and unasumming personality make her the least likely candidate to catch the eye of professional hockey player Luc Martineau. Luc is a hunky millionare playboy and the star goalie of the Seattle Chinooks, Jane is the short, plain reporter assigned to them.Lead by Luc the players do their best to make Jane's life miserable. They're driven by an irrational fear that a woman's presence might jinx their season (it seems hockey players are an extremely superstitious lot) and just plain ol' machismo. However, they have underestimated pint sized Jane, who gives just as good as she gets, especially to that annoying, sexist, conceited but oh-so delicious Luc.  Can Luc get over his predilection for empty headed blonde Amazons and discover the beautiful woman that lies beneath Jane's fuddy duddy exterior? Maybe so but you'll have to read to find out!<br />This is definetely a keeper for me. Gibson knows how to write the  ultimate alpha heroes and Jane is no slouch in the character department either. She represents the average modern working woman. She is you and me and boy is it satisfying to watch the average girl finally get her man!<br />Highly recommended!	2003-02-10
US	42666214	R2L24R755LPYCP	0451199529	14887786	A Perfect Scoundrel (Lords of Love)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Finally! ....	a regency with nary a dead body in sight! No murder plot, no cartoonish villain.. yay!!. In short, this book is what romance is about: a relationship between a man and a woman.<br />This is the story of Lord Quentin Somerville, a rake to end all rakes. He has made a living out of debauchery until the fateful day he lays eyes on the Season's reigning beauty Clarissa Edwardes. He is instantly smitten and decides to pursue her. Tired of competing with Clarissa's other titled and more wealthy suitors, Quentin concocts a plan to trap her into marriage by compromising her at a masked ball (Quent is not very nice). Quentin's plan goes without a hitch until he's found (as planned) by members of the ton. To his surprise and utter dismay the passionate woman in his arms was not Clarissa at all but her plain, boring stepsister Jane.<br />I know that the forced marriage thing has been done a million times but this author somehow manages to bring an interesting spin to this tired plot. The hero is as nasty as they come (think Sebastian Verlaine in Patricia Gaffney's To Have and to Hold) who even goes so far as to rape the heroine on their wedding night. I know this is terrible but the author makes his transformation into an ideal and loving husband believable. By the end of the story I was head over heels for him. On the other hand, Jane is kindnes personified, her sweet but strong personality was overshadowed by the glitz and glamour of London's nobility. Once Quentin gets to see her in her natural setting,in the countryside among peasants and nature, his frozen heart is in great danger of being thawed by Jane's sweet smile.<br />My only quibble: I thought Jane should have made Quentin grovel and beg and plead a lot more for his evil deeds. Otherwise this book is a great read especially for those who are heartily sick of the dead corpses and evil villains that populate every other romance today. Highly recommended. :)	2003-01-28
US	42666214	RV4XF5FP4ANMV	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	I am sorry to say that...	while Mrs. Carlyle's writing abilities are flawless this book was just an average read for me and I will explain why.<br />This is the story of police inspector Max de Rohan (from A Woman of Virtue) and Catherine Wodeway. Max meets Catherine when she rides into the middle of an investigation he is conducting. To throw the suspects off he grabs Catherine and proceeds to give her one of those toe curling kisses that she will never forget. Afterwards, of course Max must act like a heel and insult Catherine for which he earns a well deserved slap. After this promising beginning, the story becomes predictable and dare I say it? a bit dull. Maybe it is just that I am so burned out on these murder/suspense regencies. It seems that nowadays someone must always die and our hero/heroine must go chasing the baddie that did the killing all over jolly ol' London.<br />Whatever happened to those character-driven stories, where we got to know the hero and heroine and got to watch them get to know one another and fall in love? This is precisely my problem with this book. Not enough time is devoted to the relationship between Max and Catherine before they jump into bed. I am sure if you have read this kind of regency before you know that the baddie eventually gets killed (in this case by the hero) after he commits some nefarious act agaisnt one of the main characters (here it would be Catherine). Then quite suddenly the lovers realize that they are head over heels in love and voila.. they live happily ever after.<br />So we are supposed to believe that in between making hot sweaty love and chasing after a bad guy they have found the time to get to know one another well enough to fall in love. Right. Well, I quite enjoyed Carlyle's My False Heart so it is with great regret that I give this book three stars. If you enjoy the suspense murder plot then I highly recommend this book. If you don't then avoid it. :)	2003-01-23
US	42666214	R1A3YW28ZOK1WZ	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Not as exciting as I expected but...	I have been waiting for this book ever since that teasing glimpse of Billy in Lord of Ice so maybe my expectations were unreasonably high. However, I still consider this book a great read and its author a brilliant storyteller.<br />Despite the book's title, Billy Blade is the shining star in this book. As a young man Billy runs away from his abusive tyrannical father and leaves behind a life of privilege for the tough, dirty streets of London's slums.There, with his intelligence and charm he becomes a kind of Robin Hood figure by stealing from the rich and giving to the poor. Moreover, he becomes the leader of the most powerful gang in London's underworld thereby gaining many enemies.<br />Lady Jacinda Knight, the daughter of a powerful duke is a beautiful, stubborn young woman who is determined to live her life on her own terms. She meets the mysterious Billy Blade while running away from an arranged marriage and is completely enthralled by his \\"bad-boy\\" image and his wild, untamed ways. Immediately Billy is taken with Jacinda's beauty and spirit and when he finds out her identity he is loath to return her to her family but his innate sense of responsibility demands that he do so. Afterwards, Billy is haunted by the memory of Jacinda but knows that a thug like him could never possess a woman like her...unless he puts his pride and his terrible memories of his childhood aside and returns to take his rightful place as the Earl of Rackford. Smitten, besotted and head over heels in love Billy leaves behind everything he has built to attain the one and only thing he wants in life, the love of the fair Jacinda.<br />There were many things I love about this book including the chemistry between the main characters and the vivid descriptions of the unglamorous London slums. However, what I really loved about this book was Billy. He is a charming and cocky but he is also insecure,lonely and deeply scarred by his abusive childhood.<br />On the other hand, Jacinda is spoiled (without being unlikeable) and tender towards Billy but I thought that she took much too long to realize her feelings for Billy. There were a few things that kept this book from being a five star read for me. First, Billy's transformation from gang leader to peer of the realm provided many lighthearted and tender moments but for me the story truly shined only when Billy took on his \\"Blade\\" persona and went out to hunt some Jackals (the rival gang). The book lags a little in the middle because of Billy's arrival into the haute ton (not as entertaining as his life as gang leader) and Jacinda's refusal accept her feelings for him. Also, although there were many sweet and tender moments in the story, I felt that there were not enough of those heart-clutching moments that Foley's other books are so full of. All in all I really enjoyed this book and I do consider it a keeper but when I need an angsty hero and my heart turned to mush I will re-read Foley's The Pirate Prince, one of my all-time favorite books so full of those heart-clutching moments I love. Highly recommended :)ithout being unlikeable) and tender towards Billy but I thought that she took much too long to realize her feelings for Billy. There were a few things that kept this book from being a five star read for me. First, Billy's transformation from gang leader to peer of the realm provided many lighthearted and tender moments but for me the story truly shined only when Billy took on his \\"Blade\\" persona and went out to hunt some Jackals (the rival gang). The book lags a little in the middle because of Billy's arrival into the haute ton (not as entertaining as his life as gang leader) and Jacinda's refusal accept her feelings for him. Also, although there were many sweet and tender moments in the story, I felt that there were not enough of those heart-clutching moments that Foley's other books are so full of. All in all I really enjoyed this book and I do consider it a keeper but when I need an angsty hero and my heart turned to mush I will re-read Foley's The Pirate Prince, one of my all-time favorite books so full of those heart-clutching moments I love. Highly recommended :)	2003-01-08
US	42666214	R10VEAUYGAONY0	0671737619	535195561	A Kingdom of Dreams (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best of Judith McNaught!	While re-reading this book for what could very well be the hundredth time, I was struck by how the story still manages to churn my emotions even though I have read it so many times. To me that is what makes a book a true keeper and this book certainly is that.<br /> This is the wonderful story of Scottish countess Jennifer Merrick and her knight in shining armor ( or actually black armor) Royce Westmoreland better known as the Black Wolf.<br /> Jennifer has grown up hearing stories of the Wolf's plundering and pillaging agaisnt the Scottish people. He is reportedly the most bloodthirsty of Henry's noble's, and he is the man who is currently waging war agaisnt her own clan. While Jennifer dreams of one day being laird of her clan, her domineering father has dashed those dreams and sent her to an abbey, supposedly to curb young Jennifer's tempestous and headstrong nature. While strolling near the abbey Jenny and her stepsister are kidnapped by none other than the Black Wolf's brother who took the opportunity after overhearing Jenny's identity. Royce is annoyed by his brother's actions but recognizes the value of his young hostages and decides to keep them. After all how much trouble can two little meek women cause. Well, it turns out a lot. Royce finds that while her sister will cry at the sight of her own shadow, Jenny is far from the meek, biddable hostage he was hoping for. After slashing his clothes and blankets to shreds, stealing his horse while attempting an escape and then slashing his face with a dagger, Jenny falls victim to Royce's seductive ways and sexy smile (sigh).Soon, Royce is captivated by her strength and her unusual looks and is determined to have her despite the consequences. On the other hand, Jenny is torn between the feelings he arouses in her and loyalty for her country and her clan. However, Royce is hard to resist and pretty soon Jenny finds herself in his bed and soon after she is head over heels in love with the ferocious, tender and sexy warrior. However, a happily ever after ending for Jenny and Royce will be a tough, hard won battle. Especially after Royce breaks Jenny's heart and severes the trusting bond that had formed between them by committing an unspeakable act agaisnt her family. In order to win back his lady's heart, Royce will have to make the ultimate sacrifice.<br />My paltry words will not do this book justice, all I can say is that this is romance at its finest. Highly recommended :)ior. However, a happily ever after ending for Jenny and Royce will be a tough, hard won battle. Especially after Royce breaks Jenny's heart and severes the trusting bond that had formed between them by committing an unspeakable act agaisnt her family. In order to win back his lady's heart, Royce will have to make the ultimate sacrifice.<br />My paltry words will not do this book justice, all I can say is that this is romance at its finest. Highly recommended :)	2002-12-19
US	42666214	R4RR3CBLYP8D1	0440226317	57073862	The Devil's Love	Books	1	14	24	N	Y	TERRIBLE!	I must have read a different book judging from all these glowing reviews. I bought this book because of all the praise heaped upon it but I was sorely dissapointed.<br /> The author's style of writing is similar to that of Judith McNaught except that London lacks the polish and wit that McNaught brings to her stories. The heroine is an insipid,constantly cheerful, over-achieving twit. In short, she is a poor caricature of McNaught's early heroines.The fact that this girl is in love with a man she has not seen since childhood stretched plausability a little bit but since this is a romance novel I was able to overlook that. Then again didn't she find it peculiar that her father was the recipient of all the gifts and communication between her and her supposed suitor? Also, her eternal smile and constant chirpiness even when the hero was being a jerk was extremely irritating, I kept thinking her cheeks must hurt like hell from smiling all the darn time. The hero is one of those by the numbers rakes who is tortured because of god knows what, and of course he is a rake and completely opposed to marrying the twit or anyone else because, well, just because that is how one writes a by the numbers historical... Needless to say, I never even got halfway through the book before I threw it into a donation box. If you have read McNaught before you will be familiar with the story and characters which is fine since I love McNaught's historicals but this author lacks the skill and imagination to make the characters or the plot interesting. I don't mind that this particular girl meets boy and they are forced into marriage plot has been done a million times as long as the author makes it interesting or brings something new to a tired plot device and this author does not. A side note for nit pickers: a duke would never introduce himself by his first name to a total stranger. This author obviously did not conduct her research. Not recommended at all.	2002-12-03
US	42666214	R2XL19DMR1MH9B	0440211077	859877142	Keeper of the Dream	Books	5	101	107	N	N	Absolutely Breathtaking...	It has been a long while since a book left me in awe at the sheer brilliance of it. In fact I can't recall the last time that happened and as far as I'm concerned this book cannot be rated because it is off the charts. It is that incredible!<br />This is the story of Raine and Arianna set in the year 1157 when Wales and England were in constant war. Raine is the bastard son of the Earl of Chester, a horrible man who relegated his illegitimate son to work in the stables and subjected him to countless beatings and floggings and ultimately gives Raine up as a hostage to his enemies. Raine overcomes these<br />immense obstacles with his courage and sheer strength, driven by a strong derire to prove himself to his uncaring father, to make him see him as his son or at least as his equal. Raine's drive and ambitions eventually gain him knighthood and in exchange for saving King Henry's life he receives his own keep. Raine's dream was to someday be the Lord of his own castle and King Henry made that dream come true, however, for this dream he has to pay a hefty price. Raine is also to marry the daughter of a Welsh prince to secure not only his castle but also a truce between the two countries. This Welsh princess is as beautiful as she is stubborn and strong, and she has made it very clear that she does not want to marry the Norman bastard others call the Black Dragon.<br />Arianna is a Welsh \\"seer\\", a beautiful, strong girl who is not easily subdued by any man. Raine is a Norman, therefore her enemy, who has killed countless of her people and even her own brother in battle. She will not easily accept this arranged marriage not only because he murdered her brother bu also because her loyalty lies in Wales. Through her gift of sight and with the help of a very mysterious squire Arianna is able to see into Raine's terrible past and from those visions she is able to glean an understanding of him, and she begins to fall in love with him. She finds out that underneath the intimidating and confident warrior lives a little boy starving for love and acceptance. Raine and Arianna's love will grow to be so unbelievable and strong as to transcend time.<br />Do you believe in eternal love? If you do then this book is for you. If you don't this book will make a believer out of you. If you are a sucker for tortured heroes with hearts of gold then you will fall head over heels in love with Raine. If you love strong, intelligent  heroines then Arianna will make you cheer. This novel has all the ingredients that make a romance perfect. If you need to be reminded of why you started to read romances in the first place then give this book a try.It will remind you .... Highly recommended!!!ng and confident warrior lives a little boy starving for love and acceptance. Raine and Arianna's love will grow to be so unbelievable and strong as to transcend time. <BR>Do you believe in eternal love? If you do then this book is for you. If you don't this book will make a believer out of you. If you are a sucker for tortured heroes with hearts of gold then you will fall head over heels in love with Raine. If you love strong, intelligent  heroines then Arianna will make you cheer. This novel has all the ingredients that make a romance perfect. If you need to be reminded of why you started to read romances in the first place then give this book a try.It will remind you .... Highly recommended!!!	2002-12-02
US	42666214	R1NH7CVZZEVBAT	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	3	3	7	N	N	An OK read...	Sophie Dempsey is a wedding videographer who has finally caught a break. She and her sister Amy are to film a has-been actress big come-back in that actress's hometown called Temptation. The mayor of Temptation is good looking enough to give straight laced Sophie heart palpitations. The mayor Phineas Ticker is not oblivious to Sophie's charms and decides to seduce her. Sophie knows that a rich boy like Phin can never be serious about the daughter of a con artist but a girl can still dream.. or can she. On top of this Sophie finds herself in the middle of a murder investigation and the victim of attempted murder. With the mayoral elections in the near future, can Phin afford to stay with such a notorious woman?<br />All in all this was a good read, however, I never felt anything for any of the characters and frankly trying to keep all the characters straight was a little difficult. This book has a cast of thousands and most of them, I felt, were under developed. For example, Sophie's sister Amy seems to play a prominent part in the story but as the book progresses she virtually dissappears. The rest of the supporting characters come across as card board cut-outs of quirky small town residents.Also, a murder takes place kinda late in the story and the investigation that ensued just seemed like an after thought, it really did not fit into the story correctly. Here they were in the middle of a seemingly terrible murder, the body has been moved (by Amy because the body was on the dock she wanted to film a scene on..Can anyone be that stupid?) and everyone is walking around like nothing is wrong. Even Sophie who seems to be the only character with a bit of sense starts acting like a moron at this point, covering up her sister's idiotic actions. It just did not seem realistic to me. So, I rate this book 3 stars because it has its moments, some funny and some a little romantic. However, to me a really good romance is one that leaves me smiling and sighing over it long after I turn the last page and this book simply did not do that for me. Recommended with reservations. :)I turn the last page and this book simply did not do that for me. Recommended with reservations. :)	2002-11-29
US	42666214	RKU9SIGG0J7NA	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A treat!	This is my first Judith Ivory book and I was so impressed by this talented author that I will be running out to buy all of her previous efforts. Lady Edwina Bollash is a myopic spinster who has been given the task of transforming a handsome rat catcher into a respectable gentleman and she only has a few weeks in which to do it. There's a sweet chemistry between the two from the beginning. Edwina is attracted to Mick's looks but also to his good and kind heart. Mick is attracted to Edwina's unconventional looks and her simplicity. These two are destined for each other, however the road to happily ever after is going to be quite bumpy. There are some twists and turns that makes this take on Pygmalion unique. Do not miss this wondeful story. Highly recommended!	2002-11-08
US	42666214	REMDVKKSTKF7G	0345405374	255507131	Two Nations : Black and White, Separate, Hostile, Unequal	Books	2	3	8	N	Y	This  book was sometimes interesting but	the plethora of percentages and numbers weigh it down. The views of the author were one sided and sometimes a little biased agaisnt the majority. This is a small quibble and does not really take away from the main message the author is trying to convey. This book is, however, quite an eye opener especially for those who believe that in this country all men are created equal. This book proves that it simply isn't so.	2002-11-08
US	42666214	RFM0HALBPL0GZ	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good story but not the earth shatering climax	I was expecting. The reason I say this is because the other books in the series seemed to be building up to something incredible. While Face the Fire is an interesting story, the ending does not satisfy. Mia and Sam are great characters and have lots of chemistry. However, I thought that the reason for Sam's departure was flimsy at best. He basically left because he was feeling smothered, tied down by Mia and her love. He has loved her all these years yet he stayed away for over a decade!!! I just could not really care about him after that. I also though Mia should have made him beg and grovel before taking him back, she seemed to give in way too easily. Aside from this, the writing, as in all of Robert's books, is excellent the appearance of the characters from the previous books is also a treat. This book is recommended to those who have read the other two, if you have not I recommend starting out with the first book Dance Upon the Air. :)	2002-11-08
US	42666214	R1H62HX4OSZEUO	0316284955	613460974	White Oleander (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	unforgettable coming of age story	This is not an easy book to read because it is so heartbreakingly real. It is the story of relationships between mothers and daughters. It is also a story about coming of age, about losing and then finding yourself. Ingrid is a self absorbed poet who gets sentenced to life in prison for the murder of her lover. Her daughter Astrid gets shuffled around in the foster care system where she learns how to survive in a world that doesn't care.<br />It is a touching, poetic tale that I highly recommend.	2002-09-25
US	42666214	RS52OMXWXHHGO	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	An interesting read but not her best.	I think Nora Roberts best books are her trilogies. She has a great gift for describing and bringing to life the bond and love between family and friends. This trilogy is no exception as far as that, however, I felt that Heaven and Earth was a little weak in the plot department.<br />I will not go into the plot since others have already done so, all I will say is that the ending was a little weak and the villain was actually recycled from the first book ( Dance Upon the Air ) which I thought lacked imagination and while it's something that I would expect from other authors, it's just simply unnaceptable in a Roberts book. Also, the supernatural or paranormal, if you will, part of the story was at times a little hard to follow.<br />What I loved about the book was the family bond and the love between the three friends Ripley, Mia and Nell. Also the characters,especially Mac, were interesting and real even if the plot sometimes wasn't and it was also nice to see Nell and Zack, the characters from the first book. The romance between Ripley and Mac sizzled and I loved the fact that the tough Ripley wasn't so tough after all when she found herself in love with the adorably absent minded Mac. I think the characters save this book and the whole trilogy from mediocrity.<br />I recommend this book to fans of Roberts and for those who have read the first book in the trilogy since this one would probably be hard to follow otherwise. :)	2002-09-19
US	42666214	R2VOZSPTWOGTBD	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It all started when...	Phoebe Somerville inherited the Chicago Stars from her no good father amid incredible controversy. Phoebe tries to make the best of it in spite of the opposition she's facing. Heading the opposition is the gorgeous Dan Calebow. Dan Calebow is the Stars head coach and when he meets the Marilyn-esque Phoebe he is immediately attracted to her although he doesn't respect her. Because of her looks and a traumatizing past experience, Phoebe plays the part of the bimbo to the max. It takes Dan a while to see through her charade and find out that there's a brain to go with the dazzling good looks.<br />It Had to Be You is the first of the Chicago Stars books and the last one I read ( I worked my way back for some reason ) it is probably not as well paced as the rest but it was one of her first books but regardless this is a great read and it is a  nice introduction to this brilliant author and her excellent stories. If you like SEP do not miss this one!	2002-09-16
US	42666214	R1E054Y1RAJZQ3	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	The most terrifying book I've ever read..	In only a hundred pages or so this book manages to bring to life what surely must be the darkest most horrible period in history. With simple prose the author is able to paint a horrible picture of the time he spent in a concentration camp. The images his story evoked in my minds eye of the terrible cruelty humans can inflict on one another will stay with me forever.	2002-09-16
US	42666214	REX7YNHZA5NP	0312971125	441085885	Crazy for You	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Small town dysfunction..	can be very funny as Jennifer Crusie shows in this wild and crazy tale of a small town art teacher whose life is totally changed when she adopts an abandoned dog that looks more like a large rat. Quinn realizes she craves change in her \\"beige\\" life and acquiring a dog was her first step in that direction. Her second is to dump her annoying control freak of a boyfriend ( the creepiest character in any novel ever ). Then she buys a house and falls head over heels for her sister's ex-husband. Nick is Quinn's best guy friend, totally gorgeous and unfortunately afflicted with the worst case of commitment phobia. Quinn knows this but her common sense dissapears every time she sees him and she is now determined to be with him. Quinn's life is full of that excitement she had craved what with her mom coming out of the closet and her loser ex stalking her she's got her plate full. What else could possibly happen in this previously excitement challenged town? Read on to find out.<br />This is my first book by this author and although I did not think this book was a keeper it definitely got me interested in her other books. An excellent beach read. Recommended. :)	2002-09-16
US	42666214	R1VLXHCSY8PRX1	0380818051	643437155	Secrets of a Perfect Night	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	An excellent anthology	Secrets of a Perfect Night is the best collection of short romance stories I've read so far.<br /> Stephanie Laurens tells the tale of a rake with a scandalous reputation who finds his life of endless conquests and aimless amusements dissatisfying. He decides to go back to his ancestral estate and start anew. On the way there he gets caught in a snowstorm and seeks shelter at a nearby cottage where to his surprise he finds a young girl, now a woman, that he once seduced and whose heart he broke.<br />I had read one book by this author before that I didn't enjoy at all so this was a delightful surprise for me and I will be looking for more of her books.<br />Victoria Alexander's story deals with two young people in love who plan to elope to avoid the wrath of the girl's father. The treacherous father already knows of their plans and hatches an evil scheme that tears the lovers apart.<br />I felt this story was the weakest of the bunch. I've never read this author before and while the story was well written. The<br />plot, which starts out nicely, quickly becomes too convoluted and ridiculous to be believed.<br />Rachel Gibson's contemporary story is the best of the bunch. She tells the story of high school sweethearts brought back together at their ten year reunion. I will not go further into it except to say that the dialogue sizzles and the characters are compelling and completely believable. The story is one that most of us have dreamed of: to attend our high school reunions and knock the socks off every person there. This is another excellent story form the very talented Ms. Gibson.<br />I give Ms. Lauren's story 5 stars. Alexander's story 2 stars and Gibson's 10 stars! Highly recommended	2002-08-30
US	42666214	RY6TVNFXXJWQU	0380814390	855303202	Lola Carlyle Reveals All	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Gibson shows her more serious side with Lola Carlyle	Lola Carlyle is an ex-supermodel who has fought and conquered bulimia and low self-esteem only to learn that some very racy photos of her have been posted on the net by her sleazy ex. So she takes off in an effort to get away from the media backlash. While napping on a private yacht in the Bahamas, Lola wakes up to  find herself and her dog Baby Doll kidnapped by some crazed lunatic who claims he works for the government.<br />The lunatic's name is Max Zamora who really is a government secret agent. He realizes the yacht is occupied when it's too late to turn back. He's on the run from a powerful drug lord whose son he has just killed. Max has seen Lola before on magazine covers and like most men he has fantasized about the sexy Lola. However, right now Lola is pointing a flare gun at his chest and seduction is the last thing on his mind. That is until the flare gun goes off and destroys the yacht's controls and he finds himself stranded in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean with a sexy ex-underwear model and her annoying yapping little dog.<br />I enjoyed this book very much even though several of Gibson's trademarks were notoriously absent from the story. I consider her trademarks the quirky secondary characters that have populated her previous books and the outrageous, unconventional heroines . I would say that Lola is the most \\"normal\\" Gibson heroine to date. Which isn't a bad thing except that I think Gibson fans have come to expect the quirky heroines and the mucho macho heros. In that department Gibson doesn't dissapoint since Max is way macho and utterly delicious. As far as secondary characters go, the only one worthy of any mention is Baby Doll (the yapping little dog) who is quirky and adorable in his own way.<br />I rate this book four and half stars because I very much enjoyed the romance and while I found Lola to be a bit dissapointing in the characterization department, I loved Max to distraction. I recommend this book to Gibson fans and for readers who are new to her. :)re new to her. :)	2002-08-27
US	42666214	R17F7320SR0TQV	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	THIS BOOK HAS ITS MOMENTS BUT	it cannot compare to this author's previous books. Nesta is a woman consumed by a need to fulfill her father's dying wish. He dreamed of freeing Wales from English rule but was unable to accomplish this before he died so he asked his daughter to do so. Nesta's sister Genith has been betrothed by King Edward to an english lord, Marcus of Anglesmore, in an effort to calm the tensions in the region. The only problem is that Marcus doesn't want Genith but her sister Nesta whom he suspects of treason which is bad enough, but worse still is that she's also rumored to be the King's mistress.<br />This book, had it been written by any other author would have been an excellent read. However, having been written by this outstanding, virtually incomparable author it is merely good. In her previous books she seamlessly blended rich history with sensual, heart-stopping romance. With this book the history is sparse and not quite as interesting to read. Also the whole part about Nesta and the King is ambiguous at best and there really wasn't a happy resolution to that. I think the biggest problem I had with this book was the heroine Nesta and her treatment of Marcus. I thought she came across as a shrew and her refusal to accept what was between them lasted almost to the last page which I found really annoying. This was purely personal taste though and wasn't taken into account when I rated this book.<br />In short I recommend this book to both fans of Hunter and to those who are new to her. Although to new readers I would strongly suggest to start with her earlier works which are simply brilliant. Recommended :)	2002-08-23
US	42666214	R30R9YU49KIBKH	0843948000	879903988	Another Eden	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	This book will tug at your heartstrings...	and will not let go. Patricia Gaffney has written a beautiful, tender, romantic tale of two seemingly star-crossed lovers set in<br />1890's America.<br />Alex Mckie is an architect and has been hired by obnoxious nouveau riche Ben Cochrane to build an opulent mansion in flashy Newport. Alex has misgivings about building this ostentatious palace named Eden but he's a driven, ambitious man who's on the rise and he'll put aside his personal qualms about wasting his talents on this monument to bad taste.<br />Sara Cochrane married Ben at a young age in order to flee an alcoholic mother and an unhappy life in England. Ben married her because he thought marrying a peer of the realm would help him attain his ultimate goal: entrance into New York's exclusive high society. When Sara's title failed to gain them entry into the exclusive circles, Ben blamed her for the failure and  needless to say the marriage turned sour. Sara could not leave Ben because of their son, whom Ben had no use for except as a weapon to keep Sara in her place.<br />When Alex and Sara meet, it isn't love at first sight. He's intrigued by her and wants to take her to bed, she dislikes him. This will change when Ben sends Sara to supervise the building of their home for the summer. Alex and Sara develop at tentative friendhip which soon evolves into something more complex. Sara is determined to ignore these feelings for her sake and the sake of her child, whom she's determined to protect agaisnt the reality of his parents marriage. Alex is not so willing to cooperate, he finds that he's falling in love with Sara and her son and suddenly his driving ambitions and his plans for the future are no longer so important. What's important is the seemingly impossible love and unquenchable passion that he and Sara feel for each other. Only she will not leave Ben for fear that he might take her child.<br />The angst and helplessness felt by Alex and Sara because of the impossibility of their love is heart wrenching.But what makes this a great story is that the reader can see Alex's evolution from an ambitious, young-man-about-town into a caring, responsible, loving  man who's willing to give up all of his dreams and ambitions for the love of a woman. Like all of the other books I've read by this author, this is an extremely well written romantic tale. Highly recommended. :)ut what makes this a great story is that the reader can see Alex's evolution from an ambitious, young-man-about-town into a caring, responsible, loving  man who's willing to give up all of his dreams and ambitions for the love of a woman. Like all of the other books I've read by this author, this is an extremely well written romantic tale. Highly recommended. :)	2002-08-20
US	42666214	R38ZNTR0ZY8ZL	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	EXCELLENT READ	Rachel Gibson has an excellent ability: she can write funny, witty, romantic stories that leave the reader wanting more. This book is an excellent example of that, she combines all of those elements to create a side-splittingly funny, romantic, and touching story.<br />Hope Spencer is a woman on the run. She's running from herself, her writer's block,and a certain midget wrestler who won't stop harrasing her. She ends up in Gospel, Idaho a small town populated with very unique (read weird) individuals. Hope is hoping to get inspired and find ideas for her articles. She writes very creative stories( alien abductions, leprechauns etc) for a tabloid and she has recently suffered from a bad case of writer's block. Gospel proves to be very inspirational not only for Hope the writer but also for Hope the woman.<br />The town's sheriff is Dylan Taber a handsome cowboy and single father of a seven year old boy.He's immediately attracted to Hope and lets her know it . She, on the other hand, in totally unable to resist him and is hurt when Dylan refuses to take things further after one hot, scorching kiss. Dylan is crazy about Hope and can't think of anything else but for this ... single father his son comes first. The sheriff is hiding a big secret and he's afraid of the way it will affect his son if it's discovered. He feels that the fact that Hope is a writer makes her enemy number one. Dylan, however, isn't the only one with a secret. Hope has one as well and if it's discovered it could tear them apart.<br />This book is a fun read and I loved Hope and Dylan's characters. However, I had two small quibbles with the book. I felt Adam's character was not fully developed and his relationship with Hope left largely unexplored. Gibson had shown a special talent in writing children and adult-child relationships in Simply Irresistible and I was hoping to see more of that. Also there's a story line about the old sheriff and the way he died that felt as if it was going somewhere and then suddenly flatlined. These like I said are very small issues and in no way affected my enjoyment of this book. Recommended. :)d then suddenly flatlined. These like I said are very small issues and in no way affected my enjoyment of this book. Recommended. :)	2002-08-13
US	42666214	R2WRB53G4EGV37	0440236576	474831124	No Man's Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Enjoyable	This book would be an excellent read in itself if it had not been preceded by Balogh's masterpiece More Than A Mistress. That book sent my expectations soaring and of course I expected this book to be better. I found this to be an enjoyable read but it just didn't engage my emotions like MTAM did.<br />Ferdinand Dudley, the happy go-lucky,reckless younger brother first introduced in MTAM, has won an estate in a game of cards. Upon arriving there, he discovers the house is already occupied by a beautiful young lady who claims the estate belongs to her. Ferdinand agrees to let her stay until he can get a copy of the will which she claims names her as the estate's rightful owner. Viola Thornhill has been residing at Pinewood Manor for over two years, before that she had been known as Lilian Talbot, London's most notorious courtesan. Ferdinand discovers this when the Duke of Tresham comes to bring information about the will and recognizes her. The will doesn't contain a mention of Miss Thornhill and Ferdinand asks her to leave. He has fallen for the charming, seemingly innocent Viola and is quite disillusioned to find she isn't what she seems. Viola is determined to stay at the estate which she still insists was given to her by the previous owner, the late Earl of Bamber. She proposes a wager to Ferdinand that if she's able to seduce him in a week's time the estate belongs to her. Being a Dudley, Ferdinand accepts the wager. However, Viola can't bring herself to coldly seduce Ferdinand because she has already lost her heart to him.<br />This book is not a keeper for me and I really can't point out exactly what it was that kept it from being one. I certainly enjoyed the story and certainly the dialogue and writing was beyong compare. Very few authors can write with such sparkling, vivrant, humorous skill. I truly believe Balogh's as close to a contemporary Jane Austen as one can get.<br />I think the main issue I had with the story was the heroine. I've read books in which the heroine was a courtesan before but somehow at the end everything worked out and the reader fully understood the reasons for her career choice and sympathized with her. Also, in those books the heroine has no one else to turn to and she's usually rescued form the lifestyle before any real &quot;damage&quot; can be done. However, in this book Viola works for four years before she meets the Earl of Bamber ( her father) who gives her an apportunity to start a new life. Although the reader is told why Viola became a courtesan, the reasons why were not disclosed until very late in the story and I was not fully convinced that Viola didn't have a choice in the matter. After all, she had a family who truly cared about her and  a father who was an earl, no less. I just never really sympathized with her and her plight. Also,I really loved innocent, reckless Ferdinand in MTAM and I couldn't help but feel he got a bum deal by marrying a woman whose clients had included some of his own friends!<br />Another reviewer pointed out that society wouldn't have so easily accepted such a notorious woman and I agree. It is hard to believe that in Regency England a woman such as Viola would have been welcomed into the ton with open arms as it happens in the book. In reality ladies would have crossed the street if they saw her approaching and both she and Ferdinand would have been shunned by the ton.<br />In short, I rate it four stars because my reasons for disliking it were purely personal and they do not take away from Balogh and her skill as a writer. I really only recommend this book only to fans of Balogh. If you're new to her I think it would be best to start with her earlier works instead or read the brilliant prequel to this book. :)h the heroine was a courtesan before but somehow at the end everything worked out and the reader fully understood the reasons for her career choice and sympathized with her. Also, in those books the heroine has no one else to turn to and she's usually rescued form the lifestyle before any real &quot;damage&quot; can be done. However, in this book Viola works for four years before she meets the Earl of Bamber ( her father) who gives her an apportunity to start a new life. Although the reader is told why Viola became a courtesan, the reasons why were not disclosed until very late in the story and I was not fully convinced that Viola didn't have a choice in the matter. After all, she had a family who truly cared about her and  a father who was an earl, no less. I just never really sympathized with her and her plight. Also,I really loved innocent, reckless Ferdinand in MTAM and I couldn't help but feel he got a bum deal by marrying a woman whose clients had included some of his own friends! <BR>Another reviewer pointed out that society wouldn't have so easily accepted such a notorious woman and I agree. It is hard to believe that in Regency England a woman such as Viola would have been welcomed into the ton with open arms as it happens in the book. In reality ladies would have crossed the street if they saw her approaching and both she and Ferdinand would have been shunned by the ton. <BR>In short, I rate it four stars because my reasons for disliking it were purely personal and they do not take away from Balogh and her skill as a writer. I really only recommend this book only to fans of Balogh. If you're new to her I think it would be best to start with her earlier works instead or read the brilliant prequel to this book. :)	2002-08-08
US	42666214	R10W4CI8PR1GSD	055358183X	623737680	The Bride and the Beast (Once Upon a Time)	Books	1	20	25	N	N	Unimaginative and tedious.	... This book is not one of this author's best. It had a promising beginning but it just deteriorated as they story wore on. Frankly I found it a little boring and the separation of the characters towards the end did not make any sense. The happily ever after was abrupt and incredibly unimaginative.<br />This is the story of a girl named Gwendolyn who just happens to be the only virgin left in her village. This is not a good thing because the village has been terrorized by a \\"dragon\\" who lives up in the ruins of a castle that once belonged to their laird and his family. Anyway,through some convoluted thinking on the part of the villagers, it is decided a virgin sacrifice is the only thing that will appease this dragon and make him leave them alone. So poor Gwen is sacrificed for the good of the villagers. The so called Dragon is, of course, a flesh and blood man who is intent on terrorizing the villagers for personal reasons. He's really the son of the late laird who was thought to have been killed along with his family. One problem I had with the story was the whole revenge plot. It seemed excessively silly to me that a grown, well to do,intelligent man's idea of revenge was to pretend to be a \\"dragon\\" and terrorize ignorant villagers. The dragon doesn't allow Gwen to see his face because she'll recognize him and then she'll unmask him in front of the villagers but then Gwen is being held prisoner by him and has no contact with the villagers whatsoever so what is the point of the anonimity? Gwendolyn falls for him anyway even though she thinks he doesn't allow her to see him because he's malformed in some way. When she does find out who he is and that he's not some malformed monster she is inexplicably angry at him. This was the biggest problem I had with this book. Gwen was supposedly in love with him when they were children and grieved when she thought him dead and then when she finds out he's alive and well and,best of all, interested in her then she leaves him.The reasons for Gwen's anger were just plain silly. She was basically mad at him for being alive and not being malformed. Whatever.<br />I didn't enjoy this book at all. The story line was not interesting, the secondary characters were one-dimensional and cartoonish, except for maybe Tupper who was like a sidekick to the Dragon, and the villagers were too ignorant and stupid to be believed. There wasn't a single endearing or likeable character. I found the romance to be lacking, the love scenes felt hurried and there was a definite lack of chemistry between the characters that made the love scenes feel forced. I find that this author's writing is excellent and the dialogue in her books is well-written but I've found she's just not very consistent and some her stories can be dissapointing. I had just finished reading A Kiss to Remember by this author and I found it delightful that's why I decided to pick up this dud. She's not an autobuy for me but I will keep reading her books. Not recommended :)The reasons for Gwen's anger were just plain silly. She was basically mad at him for being alive and not being malformed. Whatever.<br />I didn't enjoy this book at all. The story line was not interesting, the secondary characters were one-dimensional and cartoonish, except for maybe Tupper who was like a sidekick to the Dragon, and the villagers were too ignorant and stupid to be believed. There wasn't a single endearing or likeable character. I found the romance to be lacking, the love scenes felt hurried and there was a definite lack of chemistry between the characters that made the love scenes feel forced. I find that this author's writing is excellent and the dialogue in her books is well-written but I've found she's just not very consistent and some her stories can be dissapointing. I had just finished reading A Kiss to Remember by this author and I found it delightful that's why I decided to pick up this dud. She's not an autobuy for me but I will keep reading her books. Not recommended :)	2002-07-29
US	42666214	R2R2BVLBRWQJAM	0553802097	594204929	A Kiss to Remember	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Quite Unforgettable	I hated the first book I read by this author but after reading so many favorable reviews on her, I decided to give her another try. I am very glad I did because this book was an excellent read and has earned highly coveted space on my keeper's shelf. :)<br />Laura Fairleigh is looking for a husband but unfortunately it is slim pickings in the small village where she lives. Because of a pesky condition in her guardian's will Laura needs to wed post haste if she is to keep the home where she and her two young siblings have been residing since their parents death. One day Laura happens upon a handsome stranger in the woods near her home. She gives in to an inner impulse and kisses the beautiful stranger on the lips. He awakens to find a stunning young woman kissing him and with no recollection of who he is. Laura realizes this is the miracle she has been praying for, so she takes the stranger home and tells him they're engaged and that he lost his memory while fighting agaisnt Napoleon. She tells him his name is Nicholas and fabricates stories in response to his many questions. She has recruited her family's help and in no time she and Nicholas are walking down the aisle. What Laura doesn't know is that her  \\"Nicholas\\" is a duke whom society has dubbed the \\"Devil of Devonbrooke\\" and the only person in the world she thoroughly despises.<br />I thought this was quite a refreshing spin on the Sleeping Beauty  tale. Ms. Medeiros has an unique style that seamlessly blends sensuality, romance, humor and poignancy. Unlike other historical authors, the humor in Ms. Medeiros book doesn't feel forced or unnatural and I was surprised to find myself laughing aloud at Laura's siblings and their antics. This book doesn't boast any suspense or murder mysteries or cartoonish villains. It is just a sweet, simply told love story that warms the heart. Highly recommended. :)	2002-07-25
US	42666214	RWECIRCBHR8IJ	0451202902	618527757	Sweet Everlasting	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Did not want it to end!!	Never before was a book so aptly named as this one. The reason I say this is because this was the sweetest story I have ever read. It is a heart-wrenching story and so beautifully written it makes the heart ache.<br />This is the story of Dr. Tyler Wilkes and Carrie Wiggins. Tyler is the wealthy son of an old, aristocratic Philadelphia family. He gives up a life of wealth and privilege to become a doctor agaisnt his mother's wishes. He moves to the small town of Wayne's Crossing to take over the practice from the town's previous doctor who is gravely ill.<br />Carrie is a poor girl who lives in a cabin with her abusive stepfather high up on High Dreamer mountain above the small town of Wayne's Crossing. Upon meeting Carrie, Tyler is not immediately attracted to her in a romantic sense but in a professional sense. Carrie, you see, is mute and Tyler wants very much to help her bur Carrie continually refuses it. Tyler begins to think there's more to the pretty, shy Carrie than meets the eye. Slowly and little by little Tyler gets to know Carrie even though she cannot speak. Once he gets to know her, Tyler is amazed that despite her handicap and the hardships she has suffered Carrie is high spirited, kind, strong and able to take pleasure in the little things in life. Eventually, they become lovers and in spite of his attraction and growing affection for her, Tyler cannot turn his back on what has been ingrained in him since birth: he must marry according to his social status. In short, marrying Carrie would be beneath him.<br />Carrie wears her heart on her sleeve and it's no secret to Tyler that she loves him without condition or any strings attached. Carrie has learned early on not to expect too much from life but deep inside she can't quench the budding hope that Tyler will learn to love her as much as she loves him.<br />This is a beautiful, emotional love story full of twists and turns and breathtaking romance. Ms. Gaffney makes the characters come alive in such a way that you feel as if you personally know them. I am almost tempted to say this is my favorite Gaffney romance. However, having read most of her backlist I can't pick just one because all of her books are so radically different from one another. I guess they're all my favorites, each and every one. If you love romance, do yourself a favor and pick up this book or any book by this brilliant author. :)way that you feel as if you personally know them. I am almost tempted to say this is my favorite Gaffney romance. However, having read most of her backlist I can't pick just one because all of her books are so radically different from one another. I guess they're all my favorites, each and every one. If you love romance, do yourself a favor and pick up this book or any book by this brilliant author. :)	2002-07-22
US	42666214	R3O9FZIN6W4AF3	0843947721	9414257	Lily	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Patricia Gaffney does it again!	Lily is one of Patricia Gaffney's first books not that you could tell. It is as original and as well-written as any of her later efforts. It is, however, in the style of those eighties and early nineties romances. What I mean by this is that it is melodramatic and sometimes a little over the top with an ever-suffering heroine and a dark tormented sometimes cruel hero. But never fear Gaffney makes that tired formula work and does so brilliantly.<br />Lily has been orphaned and left at the mercy of an uncle who's a religious fanatic. This uncle claims Lily must marry his son (equally fanatic) because of a religious vision he's had. Lily refuses and an altercation ensues where the uncle ends up bleeding and unconcious. Thinking she's killed him Lily flees and eventually ends up at Darkstone Manor working as a maid. Devon Darkwell is the lord and master of this manor. Devon is a dark extremely tortured hero with a painful past. Because of this he can't trust and is seemingly incapable of love until he lays eyes on Lily. He eventually seduces her and ends up getting more than he bargained for because sweet, innocent Lily somehow finds her way into his black heart. What's a dark, tortured hero to do when faced with the horrible prospect of falling in love? Well, fight back,  of course. He puts poor Lily through all kinds of hell before the requisite HEA ending.<br />I gobbled up this book in one sitting, I couldn't put it down. It is a great read. There lots of cliches but like I said in the hands of this brilliant author it works and wonderfully. Give this book a try, you will not regret it. :)	2002-07-18
US	42666214	R2YLJLV09KLT51	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	3	5	10	N	N	not her best effort	Julia Quinn is not one of my favorite authors (sorry, I know she has many loyal fans) however, I had found the books in the Bridgerton series enjoyable though definitely not keepers.<br />Romancing Mr. Bridgerton is the story of the shy wallflower Penelope Featherington and the dashing Colin Bridgerton. Penelope has been in love with Colin for most of her adult life however Colin was hardly even aware she existed most of the time. He saw her as his sister's friend and even pitied her a little. Colin returns from a trip abroad (the latest of many) and finally notices Penelope. This happens quite suddenly and this reader was never quite convinced of such a sudden attraction on Colin's part. What made Penelope so likeable and attractive all of a sudden? The reader is even told she hasn't changed much in the past eleven years. What was so different about her? If the author had explored this alittle further I think it would have made this a more entertaining read.I wish I could go further into the plot but I feel that it would spoil one of the main plots of the story, the identity of Lady Whistledown.<br />In short I felt the book was bogged down in the middle by the whole Lady Whistledown identity plot specially when it was made fairly obvious in the first couple of chapters who it was. There were some very romantic and endearing scenes in this book, but  you will have to slog through pages and pages of inane dialogue to get to them. Don't get me wrong I think Ms. Quinn is talented and she has some very brilliant moments in all of her books that cause me to recommend them. However, sometimes the dialogue in her novels, icluding this one, deteriorates from witty into idiotic very rapidly and I get the feeling she's merely filling up the pages.<br />I recommend this book to anyone who enjoys a light read every once in a while. I DO NOT recommend it to any discriminating reader who may very well be turned off by Ms Quinn's anachronistic writing.	2002-07-16
US	42666214	RWHHWTM5Q89BV	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Another winner	I was a bit dissapointed by Lord of Fire, Lucien's story, but after finishing Lord of Ice I have since long forgotten that dissapointment and cannot wait for the next book on the lovely Knight family.<br />Damien Knight has recently returned from six years of fighting Napoleon on the continent. His bravery in the battlefield has made him into a legend and even gained him an earldom. In spite of all this Damien is very unhappy. Damien is tortured by his memories of the war and has even experienced flashbacks that have caused him to think he's losing his mind. Thinking himself dangerous he removes himself from society. He is living in isolation at his country estate when he finds out one of his fellow officers and a good friend has been murdered. Damien has been named the guardian of the officer's young niece. Damien travels to the school where his young ward is to meet her. He arrives rather late and ends up watching a group of traveling performers which includes a young beauty that he simply cannot resist. He decides he must have her and waits for her after the performance to proposition her. The young beauty is of course his ward Miranda but Damien won't find this out until much later. Even if this book had been terrible (which it isn't) I would've still given it 5 stars just on the basis of that first meeting alone. The dialogue sparkles and Damien is absolutely adorable when he propositions the beauteous &quot;Mrs. White&quot;. She finds the strength to resist his advances but Damien can't stop thinking about her. When he finds out who she is he vows to stay away from her no matter what. He would've succeeded except that Miranda has sensed the darkness that haunts Damien and knows just how much he needs to be loved. The road to a happy ending is filled with obstacles for these two including a villain  that wants Miranda dead.<br />This is a wonderful story that left me smiling long after I turned the last page. An added bonus is the appearance of Robert and Bel from The Duke and of course Damien's twin Lucien and his wife Alice from Lord of Fire. A bigger bonus is the little hints that Foley drops throughout the story about the other Knight siblings and who they might be paired with. I found the introduction of the mysterious gang leader Billy Blade very intriguing. It looks like he will be paired with Lady Jacinda and  I for one cannot wait for that particular story.<br />This is a great read. If you're a fan of Foley you will not be dissapointed and if you're new to her I suggest start with The Duke to get the full story of the wonderful Knight siblings!<br />Another keeper from Ms Foley! :)from The Duke and of course Damien's twin Lucien and his wife Alice from Lord of Fire. A bigger bonus is the little hints that Foley drops throughout the story about the other Knight siblings and who they might be paired with. I found the introduction of the mysterious gang leader Billy Blade very intriguing. It looks like he will be paired with Lady Jacinda and  I for one cannot wait for that particular story. <BR>This is a great read. If you're a fan of Foley you will not be dissapointed and if you're new to her I suggest start with The Duke to get the full story of the wonderful Knight siblings!<BR>Another keeper from Ms Foley! :)	2002-07-12
US	42666214	RD2N2DIZGL72S	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Somewhat dissapointing...	After reading Foley's The Duke and the excellent Ascencion trilogy, I became a little spoiled and expected everything else she wrote to be of the same high caliber. Lord of Fire is not a bad read, I don't think Ms. Foley could write a \\"bad\\" book, it is merely a little dissapointing considering her previous efforts.<br />This is the story of Lucien, one of the Knight twins. Lucien became a spy during the Napoleonic wars. He continues to spy for England after the war by luring people into an underground cave beneath his home and staging orgies. This is where he meets Alice Montague when she mistakenly wanders into one of his infamous parties. Alice's nephew has fallen ill and wants his mother who happens to be Lucien's current mistress. Alice is at once repelled and intrigued by Lucien and what's going on around her. Lucien falls immediately for the fair, innocent Alice and cons her into staying at his house for a week. During this week he intends to seduce her and Alice intends to refuse him but instead they end up falling for each other. Things do not go smoothly for the pair since Lucien can't or is unwilling to give up his secrets to Alice and someone from Lucien's past wants him dead.<br />I loved Lucien's character, he's got this little boy lost quality that tugs at the heart. Alice was not as clearly defined.She was described as a sweet unassuming young woman but more than once she acted selfishly and was annoyingly demanding of Lucien at times. My real problem with this book was the supense/action/murder plot. I felt too much time was devoted to that part of the story to the point where it overshadowed the romance. I don't mind the whole suspense/action deal as long as it is a backdrop agaisnt which the characters grow and get to know and love one another. Also, I felt the beginning of the story (when the orgy takes place) was a bit overblown. I couldn't help but think: Is that really the best place for spies to obtain information? I was a bit skeptical.<br />Regardless of this I still enjoyed this book, I just felt that it wasn't comparable to this author's earlier works. :)Regardless of this I still enjoyed this book, I just felt that it wasn't comparable to this author's earlier works. :)	2002-07-09
US	42666214	R37MCCR010OYV	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Ms Foley serves up another excellent book	After reading Ms. Foley's Ascencion trilogy, I immediately ordered the rest of her backlist. She's extremely talented and it shows in her imaginative and refreshing love stories.<br />Belinda Hamilton has been dealt a cruel blow by fate. She has captured the unwelcome attentions of Dolph Breckinridge, an obnoxious noble who's become obsessed with her. Angered by her denials he goes so far as to get her fired from her position at a respectable Academy and getting her old, silly father thrown in debtor's prison thinking she will be driven to him by desperation. Belinda refuses to give up and moves to London to be near her father, she survives by selling oranges and mending shirts. One fateful evening she's attacked and raped. Believing herself ruined beyond redemption Belinda decides to become a courtesan. She quicly becomes London's most famous and sought after member of the demimonde.<br />Robert Knight, Duke of Hawkscliffe, has been dubbed the Paragon Duke by society. Robert is obsessed with propriety and morals and keeping himself and his family scandal free. The fact that his mother was known as the Hawkscliffe Harlot is what drives Robert to grow up to become a man of unassailable moral character. How then does this stuffed shirt end up taking London's notorious La Belle Hamilton as his mistress? Well, he's attracted to her of course. However, the real reason behind the liaison is that Robert was secretly in love with a married woman who was found dead. He suspects foul play and the main suspect is Dolph Breckinridge who happens to be the author of Belinda's miseries. This relationship, supposedly platonic, born out of a need for revenge will turn into an intense, sensual, loving one.<br />I personally think the Ascencion trilogy is Foley's best.<br />This is also a great story although it probably isn't the most accurate or the most well paced but it is delicious and entertaining nonetheless. :)	2002-06-28
US	42666214	R2R5DVXD5OP7W3	0451405986	354284501	Angel Rogue: Revised Edition (Fallen Angels Novels)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	mjp at her best	I have never read a MJP book that wasn't simply wonderful. Even her contemporaries (which I don't really care for) deserve five stars. Angel Rogue is no exception, it is an unusual, beautiful love story that will leave you sighing long after you turned the last page.<br />Lord Robert Andreville (Robin) has returned to England after a dozen years of spying for the British crown in the fight agaisnt Napoleon. He is weary in mind and spirit and tortured by memories of the past when he meets Maxima Collins. Maxie is an American with an unique heritage: she's half Mohawk and half English and she has come to England with her father who died shortly afterward. Maxie feels all alone in the world, she feels like an alien among her aristocratic English family. She also has reason to suspect foul play in her father's sudden death. So she decides to leave the country manor where she was staying with her uncle and travel to London masquerading as a boy to learn what she can about her father's last hours. She meets Robin on the way by literally falling over him. He is immediately taken by her exotic looks and unconventional ways. He decides to appoint himself her guardian and together they embark on a perilous journey during which Maxie teaches Robin to trust and let go of the past while falling irrevocably in love with him.<br />Maxie is a delightful heroine, she is strong,intelligent and independent. No chin lifting, blushing, simpering heroines for MJP. She creates characters that are real, with credible issues and feelings that the reader can relate to. Robin is adorable and<br />even though he's extremely drool-worthy I found it interesting that he's of average height. I had never before read about a hero in a romance novel that was less than a six footer so this was a refreshing change and made him seem more real to me.<br />In short, this a great book and certainly another winner in MJP's long list of excellent romances. :)	2002-06-19
US	42666214	R6ZAOWC53484L	0380781220	833335596	Three Weddings and a Kiss	Books	3	40	40	N	Y	Chase and Kleypas save the day!	The first of the four stories is by Catherine Anderson an author I wasn't familiar with until now. Honestly, I did not care at all for the plot, the characters or her style of writing. The plot is<br />contrived and flimsy at best ( even for a short story ).The heroine ( she was so unremarkable I can't even recall her name) is out to get revenge against the man she thinks broke her sister's heart. She ends up taking revenge on the wrong brother and they're caught in a compromising position by her father and they're forced to marry. This is basically the only interesting part to this story as the rest is extremely unimaginative and boring.<br />The second story The Mad Earl's Bride by Loretta Chase is the real gem of this collection. The hero is diagnosed with a deadly brain disease that will not only ultimately kill him but will also cause him to lose his sanity. Having no immediate relatives he's forced to marry and produce an heir so the title will stay in the family. He agrees to marry Gwendolyn after a memorable meeting with her. She's a total bluestocking and not a great beauty so she doesnt have any illusions as to why the marriage is taking place. She's extremely levelheaded and also ambitious she dreams of building her own hospital and that's her reason for marrying  a man with a death sentence. However, destiny has other plans for her and she ends up crazy in love with her mad earl. She becomes obsessed with finding the cause of her husband's deadly ailment. Can this obsession ultimately destroy what little time these two star- crossed lovers have left?<br />Read and find out! You will not be dissapointed.<br />Lisa Kleypas short story \\"Promises\\" is also entertaining although not as intriguing and romantic as Chase's. The real reason I loved this story was the hero Eric De Gray is absolutely delicious (He calls to mind the delectable oh-so tortured Derek Craven). The heroine thinks herself in love with another man who promised to come back after leaving to tour the continent. One small quibble: I got a little annoyed with the heroine about this obsession with waiting for this man whom she has not seen or heard from in over a year. She has underestimated Eric, whom she wants nothing to do with, and he sets out to charm and disarm her. This is a delightful story with a hero that's to die for.<br />Kathleen Woodiwiss \\"The Kiss\\" I didn't even finish reading. One of my first romances was actually KW's Shanna. This was many years ago and I loved it.However, Ms Woodiwiss writing hasn't aged very well. I found her style overblown and the dialogue stilted. Halfway through it I asked myself \\"who talks like that?\\" and gave up and closed the book.<br />As far as anthologies go I've read far better but it is recommended if only for Chase's refreshing and romantic story. :)r the continent. One small quibble: I got a little annoyed with the heroine about this obsession with waiting for this man whom she has not seen or heard from in over a year. She has underestimated Eric, whom she wants nothing to do with, and he sets out to charm and disarm her. This is a delightful story with a hero that's to die for.<br />Kathleen Woodiwiss \\"The Kiss\\" I didn't even finish reading. One of my first romances was actually KW's Shanna. This was many years ago and I loved it.However, Ms Woodiwiss writing hasn't aged very well. I found her style overblown and the dialogue stilted. Halfway through it I asked myself \\"who talks like that?\\" and gave up and closed the book.<br />As far as anthologies go I've read far better but it is recommended if only for Chase's refreshing and romantic story. :)	2002-06-17
US	42666214	RHU5KC7S1J7LP	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	Possibly one of the best historicals ever written..	I came across this book while perusing a listmania by a particularly discriminating reader so I decided to give it a try. I am so very glad I did because it is without a doubt the best historical I've ever read.<br />The man society has nicknamed the Lord of Scoundrels is Lord Dain.  Lord Dain is so nicknamed because he has made a living out of drinking, gambling.... He has dedicated himself completely to living life on the fast track . On the surface he is selfish, careless, mocking, and totally self-assured. This is, however, all a facade because underneath that urbane exterior hides a lonely, rejected little boy who thinks himself ugly and unlovable. His childhood was a horrid one, his mother ran off with a lover and his father has always rejected him because of Sebastian's unusual and exotic looks. After his mother ran off, his father packed him off to school where Sebastian was teased mercilessly by his classmates because of his appearance. After such a traumatic childhood Sebastian grows up to become one of the most deliciously tortured heros I've ever come across. Such a hero deserves an extraordinary heroine and this hero gets one in Jessica Trent. Jessica is strong, beautiful and determined and just completely wonderful. She's her own woman,totally independent and a spinster by choice. When she hears her not so bright brother has been seen in the company of the infamous Lord Dain, Jessica hurries to rescue him from Sebastian's evil clutches. When she meets Sebastian she's left totally breathless and she finds herself head over heels in lust with him. Sebastian is equally smitten but he has religiously avoided any contact with proper young ladies all his life so he's determined to avoid Jessica like the plague. Only is not so easy Sebastian is falling in love, of course he would rather die than admit this even to himself. He's also convinced she could never want him because she's beautiful and dainty and he thinks himself ugly and a big brute of a man. Little does he know Jessica can't stop thinking about him...<br />Make no mistake this is the most delicious book you will ever read I can almost guarantee it. The dialogue sparkles and sparks positively fly between Dain and Jessica. By the end of the book you will be crazy in love with Sebastian and you will adore Jessica. Get this book, you will not regret it. I will cherish my copy for years to come. :)e does he know Jessica can't stop thinking about him...<br />Make no mistake this is the most delicious book you will ever read I can almost guarantee it. The dialogue sparkles and sparks positively fly between Dain and Jessica. By the end of the book you will be crazy in love with Sebastian and you will adore Jessica. Get this book, you will not regret it. I will cherish my copy for years to come. :)	2002-06-13
US	42666214	R1X0URUDYAK6CI	0380801213	267805194	Truly Madly Yours	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	TRULY WONDERFUL!	Rachel Gibson has an uncommon talent: she can actually write genuine, funny heart warming stories populated with REAL people. It is so refreshing to read about a contemporary heroine who doesn't wear slacks or blouses or worst of all pumps.Ms. Gibson seems to be the only contemporary author who realizes that no one under fifty wears that crap.<br />Delaney is a delightful young modern woman we can all relate to who happens to wear platforms instead of pumps and vinyl and spandex instead of cashmere. Nick is a gorgeous Levis wearing hunk who is head over heels in love with Delaney since they were kids but he believed Delaney was out of his reach because she was the mayor's stepdaughter and he was his illegitimate son. Delaney in turn thinks Nick hated her because she was raised in luxury by Nick's biological father who denied his real son everything she had.<br />Nick and Delaney are brought together after ten years apart by a bizarre stipulation in the late mayor's will. In such close proximity (Truly is a very small town) they are forced to face their feelings for each other and when they do the sparks will fly!<br />This is a well-written, funny, sometimes poignant love story that will leave a smile on your face. Highly recommended! :)	2002-06-13
US	42666214	R2V57UZTHC3N6Q	0380802317	746993091	Where Dreams Begin	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	One of Kleypa's best!	I have read several of Kleypa's books and I either absolutely loved it (Stranger in my Arms) or completely hated it (Prince of Dreams). Where Dreams Begin is definitely one of the former.<br />Zachary Bronson is a self made millionaire. Despite his money and all he has achieved society will not accept him because he's baseborn. One evening he meets a mysterious lady at a party, he confuses her with someone else and they share a scorching, mind numbing kiss. The lady flees in mortification and Zach is left wondering who his mysterious lady is and of course he's determined to find her and make her his!<br />The mysterious lady in question is Lady Holly. Holly has been widowed but she genuinely grieves for her dead husband (something that is extremely unusual in romance novels). Zach finds her and talks her into tutoring him and his family in the social graces so they can be accepted into society.<br />Zach's family is wonderful and Holly finds herself falling in love with them and with Zach. She refuses to give in to her feelings because she feels she's somehow betraying her dead husband and what they had together.<br />The reason I gave the book 4 stars is because I felt that (gasp!) passion was lacking between the main characters. A Kleypa's book where the love scenes don't burn up the pages? No way!, you say. Well, all I can say is that the love scenes are nice and beautifully written but for a Kleypas book they are definitely lacking.<br />Otherwise this is a great story and it is highly recommended. :)	2002-06-10
US	42666214	R3KHZNO6H4VSHG	0451205987	856292484	Wild at Heart	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Unique and wonderful!	I will not go into the plot since other reviewers have already done so. I just wanted to add that this is the most unique story I have ever read. The characters are so vividly drawn that by the end of the book I felt as I knew them personally. Try this book you will not regret it. :)	2002-06-10
US	42666214	R1VD9KYFHSNCI0	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	DESERVES 10 STARS!	Prince Charming is the final book in Gaelen Foley's brilliant and unforgettable Ascencion trilogy and as hard as it is to choose between the three unique stories I have to say Prince Charming it's the best of the bunch.<br />This is the story of Rafael di Fiore, Lazar's and Allegra's son. At the beginning of the story he's pampered, spoiled, and careless and somewhat of a dissapointment to his parents. Known as Rafe the Rake for his numerous sexual conquests, he's amoral and reckless but deep inside he's insecure and yearns for a chance to prove himself to his father and his country. He's given this chance when the king takes a holiday to Spain and leaves him in charge of the kingdom. As a condition Rafael must choose a bride to insure the succession. He chooses to wed Daniela Chiaramonte, also known as The Masked Rider, Ascencion's own female Robin Hood. Rafael and Dani meet when she mistakenly robs him on a deserted road. Rafael is immediately attracted to her and instead of sending her to the gallows he asks her to become his wife. He tells her he's marrying her because of her influence with the people of Ascencion will help him repair his tarnished image. Of course, he's kidding himself because he's already head over heels in love.<br />This story is full of romance, adventure and sexy love scenes. Rafael is truly prince charming and Daniela is a compelling heroine. She's strong, independent and plucky but not annoyingly so (like so many heroines are nowadays).This is truly a great book. If you're tired of reading the same old boring plots and cliches that appear on every other romance novel today give Ms. Foley a try. She does not dissapoint. :)	2002-06-05
US	42666214	R29AB8I3GPSIFE	0553294091	438412162	Once an Angel	Books	1	11	15	N	Y	a good premise but...	This is my first book by this author and it may not be the last but next time I will check it out of the library instead of buying it.<br />When I rated this book I was really torn between one and three stars. Let me explain why: the plot of the book was a good one, even though the stranded-in-a-desert-island thing has been done to death. The writing was also above reproach. It is obvious this  author knows her stuff. However, what really killed this whole book for me was the heroine. Emily has to be the most immature, annoying little brat that ever appeared on ANY work of fiction.<br />Her father has died while prospecting for gold in New Zealand and leaves her in the care of his close friend Justin. However, Justin is plagued by guilt over the way his friend died and so never goes back to England to assume his responsibility. Emily feels abandoned and I suppose that this triggers her immature behavior when she finally meets Justin.  I could understand her behavior at the beginning of the story but throughout the whole book?!! It just became annoying and detracted from the whole story. So I give this book one star because just remembering her idiotic behavior makes my head hurt. Avoid this one if you find childish, much too plucky , silly heroines hard to stomach.	2002-06-04
US	42666214	R2CGPJN30X45NN	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	a brilliant follow up to the pirate prince	Finding a new author whose books are brilliant enough to place on my keeper's shelf fills me with happiness. Gaelen Foley is such an author! Princess is my second book by this author, The Pirate Prince having been the first, and after I finished it I was convinced Foley belonged up there with Putney, Hunter, Mcnaught and Roberts. She along with these other authors never fail to breathe new life into a genre that's being beaten to death with the same insipid heroines and eye rolling cliches.<br />Princess is the story of Serafina di Fiore, Lazar and Allegra's first born child. She has been in love since she was a child with Darius Santiago, a professional assassin and the king's most trusted subject. Darius is also secretly in love with Serafina but because of his past and his heritage he believes himself unworthy of her.Their love is further complicated by the fact that Serafina has agreed to marry a Russian prince in order to save her beloved country from Napoleon and his mighty army. This seemingly impossible love explodes when both of them are brought together in a secluded villa unchaperoned.<br /> The story will clutch right from the start and will not let you go.<br />If you love a good story along with a heart stopping romance then this book is for you. :)	2002-06-04
US	42666214	R4EKUJDMPN2FM	0451405358	875962288	To Have and To Hold (Victorian Trilogy)	Books	5	10	15	N	Y	dark, somewhat disturbing and absolutely wonderful!	I had not ever heard of this author until recenly when I came across her while perusing a listmania on favorite romances on this site. I was immediately intrigued by the plot and decided to buy it. I am so glad I did! This is a wonderful romance full of darkness and love and intrigue.<br />Sebastian Verlaine inherits the title of viscount from a cousin  and moves to the village of Wyckerley not to take his newly acquired responsibility seriously but simply because he's bored with the aimlessness of his life. One drunken night he's talked into acting as magistrate and this is where he meets Rachel Wade, who was brought up on charges of indigence. She is a murderess who was paroled after having served ten years in prison for killing her husband. Sebastian is intrigued and attracted to her and offers her employment as a &quot;housekeeper&quot; not out of kindness but basically because he thinks it will be amusing to have someone around who's completely helpless at his beck and call. Of course he also plans to make her his mistress. Rachel is completely at his mercy and she knows it. However, she no longer cares very much about anything. She has been in prison since she was eighteen for a crime she didn't commit. Her accounts of the brutality and the cruelties she was subjected to in prison made me cringe. She doesnt care one way or another what happens to her as long as she doesn't have to go back to prison.<br />Sebastian is selfish and mean, completely unlikeable throughout the first part of the book but by the end I was left totally breathless at how the characters, especially Sebastian, changed and matured before my very eyes.This, I believe, is what makes both the book and the author brilliant. She was able to show through poignant, sometimes disturbing scenes that love is powerful enough to change even the most jaded, cynical and hopeless of people. Overall this is an excellent read.<br />I can't wait to read the rest of the books on this author's backlist. Highly recommended. :)recommended. :)	2002-05-22
US	42666214	R160XIE99IA8V9	0553582003	531722337	The Secret Swan	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	A WORTHY ADDITION TO MY ROMANCE COLLECTION	THIS IS MY FIRST BOOK BY THIS AUTHOR AND I WAS NOT TOO DISSAPOINTED. THE STORY OF AMIRANTH AND TRISTAN IS UNUSUAL IN THAT THE CHARACTERS ARE MARRIED AT A YOUNG AGE AND THEN SEPARATED FOR EIGHT LONG YEARS. THIS IS A STORY ABOUT SECOND CHANCES AND THAT'S WHY I ENJOYED IT.<br />AFTER A LONG INCARCERATION AT THE HANDS OF THE FRENCH, TRISTAN ESCAPES TO RETURN HOME TO THE YOUNG WIFE HE HAD TREATED SO SHABBILY EIGHT YEARS BEFORE. HE HAS MATURED DURING HIS LONG CAPTIVITY AND HAS HAD TIME TO THINK ON THE FRAGILITY OF LIFE AND HIS OWN MORTALITY. HE WANTS TO START A NEW LIFE WITH AMIRANTH BY HIS SIDE.HE RUSHES HOME TO FIND HIS WIFE'S BEAUTIFUL COUSIN AT HIS MANOR TELLING HIM AMIRANTH HAS DIED OF THE PLAGUE. AND SO THEIR STORY BEGINS.<br />THE STORY IS WELL WRITTEN AND THE CHARACTERS WELL DEVELOPED. HOWEVER, I DO AGREE WITH THE OTHER REVIEWERS HERE THAT THERE WASN'T NEARLY ENOUGH DIALOGUE BETWEEN TRISTAN AND AMIRANTH AND THIS IS WHAT DISSAPOINTED ME THE MOST. I FELT THE EPILOGUE, WHILE SWEET, LEFT A LOT TO BE DESIRED. ALL IN ALL, I FEEL THIS IS A GOOD STORY TO WHILE AWAY A LAZY AFTERNOON.<br />P.S. IF YOU LIKE HISTORY ALONG WITH A HOT ROMANCE TRY MADELINE HUNTER. SHE'S MY ALL TIME FAVORITE AUTHOR. YOU WON'T BE DISSAPOINTED. :)	2002-05-16
US	42666214	R2P2XFDEW89BN6	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A WONDERFULLY ROMANTIC TALE!	ONE OF THE FIRST ROMANCES I EVER READ WAS A PIRATE STORY.THE STORY WAS SO LUDICROUS AND FULL OF CLICHES, I THREW IT AWAY AND SWORE I WOULD NEVER READ ANOTHER PIRATE STORY AGAIN.<br />SO THIS WAS WHY I HESITATED BEFORE I PICKED UP THIS BOOK BUT ALL THE WONDERFUL REVIEWS HERE AND ON OTHER SITES FINALLY CONVINCED ME. I'M SOOO GLAD I DID! THIS BOOK IS WORTH 10 STARS!IT IS THAT WONDERFUL!<br />THIS IS THE STORY OF LAZAR AND ALLEGRA. LAZAR WAS BORN THE PRINCE OF THE ISLAND OF ASCENCION. THE MAN WHO WOULD SOMEDAY BE KING. HOWEVER, HIS FAMILY WAS MURDERED BEFORE HIS VERY EYES WHEN HE WAS A BOY AND THE ISLAND WAS TAKEN OVER BY THE GREEDY, EVIL GENOANS. LAZAR WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE UNHARMED BY JUMPING OFF A CLIFF INTO THE SEA. WHAT HAPPENS TO HIM AFTER HIS ESCAPE WILL HAVE YOU REACHING FOR YOUR HANKIE. ANYWAY, HE EVENTUALLY BECOMES A PIRATE AND PLOTS TO KILL ALLEGRA, THE DAUGHTER OF THE MAN HE THINKS IS RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS FAMILY'S MURDER, AND SACK AND BURN THE CITY THE USURPERS HAVE BUILT. WHEN HE LAYS EYES ON THE FAIR ALLEGRA HE FINDS HE DOESN'T HAVE THE HEART TO KILL HER AND TAKES HER CAPTIVE INSTEAD. AND THIS IS WHERE THE MOST BEAUTIFUL,TOUCHING LOVE STORY I HAVE READ IN A LONG TIME BEGINS.<br />IF YOU'RE A SUCKER FOR TORTURED HEROS WITH SOULFUL EYES LIKE I AM THEN THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU! LAZAR IS HEARTBREAKINGLY VULNERABLE AND OH SOO TORTURED! THIS IS THE FIRST AND ONLY BOOK I HAVE READ BY THIS AUTHOR BUT IT WON'T BE THE LAST. MS. FOLEY HAS EARNED A PLACE ON MY KEEPERS SHELF AND IT IS WELL DESERVED.<br />TRULY A REMARKABLE BOOK.<br />:)	2002-05-16
US	42666214	R11O2WOVEDHIWL	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	3	23	30	N	N	lacks substance	This is the story of writer Amanda Briars and publishing tycoon Jack Devlin. The story begins with Amanda soliciting a male prostitute to \\"service\\" her on her thirtieth birthday. This is what attracted me to this story, the fact that the heroine was daring enough to do something like this. However, after that promising beginning the story veers off into a series of sexual encounters between a not so perfect Miss Amanda and the delectable Mr. Devlin. Somehow these two find time to get to know each other while engaging in toe curling sex and they manage to even fall in love. How? I wasnt sure since there was virtually no dialogue or interaction between the two aside from the bed variety.There was no substance to the story, no depth of feeling. Can great sex cause you to fall irrevocably in love? Maybe, but passion eventually fizzles and then what? The reason I gave it three stars is because I did enjoy it somewhat and of course no one can write steamier love scenes than Ms. Kleypas. However, if you're looking for depth in romance, witty dialogue and romantic tension I suggest you read Ms. Kleypas earlier works.	2002-05-03
US	42666214	RD7WA6Q1ONQGH	0380776170	376589566	The Last Hellion (The Scoundrels Series)	Books	3	10	13	N	Y	Enjoyable but it was no Lord of Scoundrels	I paid a ridiculous amount of money for this book because after reading the vastly superior Lord of Scoundrels I was totally hooked on this author. However, I was a bit disappointed because while The Last Hellion is still an enjoyable read it lacked the sizzle and originality of the former. This the story of independent Lydia and Vere Mallory who was first introduced in LOS. Basically Vere meets Lydia while she's trying to rescue an innocent from being abducted and pressed into prostitution. She catches his attention and he proceeds to follow her all over town while she is dressed in silly costumes in a series of scenes that have nothing whatsoever to do with the rest of the story. This basically sums up the first half of the story, and I was left with the impression that the author was merely trying to fill up pages. The romance is slow and it never really heats up, even the appearance of Dain and Jessica from LOS fails to animate the story. The reason I gave it three stars instead of one is because Lord Of Scoundrels has become one of my all time favorites and because of that I will give this author another try.	2002-05-03
US	42666214	R2M4N5VLQ0SRTE	0380808080	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	3	2	2	N	N	not sep's best	After reading almost all SEP's other books, I had very high expectations for the story of Kevin and Molly. I was more than a little dissapointed with it. I was left feeling like the story never quite reached its full potential.<br />I looved Kevin but it seemed like he was never really fleshed out, there were hints of deep feeling, of a little boy lost but he was left largely unexplored.<br />Molly is another story. In the beginning she was sort of a smart, sassy, insecure and funny young woman. However, towards the middle of the story she kind of deteriorated into a smart mouth, crazy, needy person. The stunts she kept on pulling got kind of tiring as the story wore on. I almost awarded this book four stars in spite of all this but then I remenbered the love scene in which Molly started fantasizing she was someone else while Kevin was making love to her. What the heck was that all about?<br />anyway, I recommend this book only to those who are hard core SEP fans.	2002-02-27
US	42666214	R2D335H4PSRVAG	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	1	31	40	N	Y	my first linda howard	I bought this book based on the reviews and also the story line sounded interesting.<br />I will not go into the plot since other reviewers have done that. I will say that I didn't find this book romantic at all. Having the hero mouthing four letter words to the heroine while they are making love doesn't seem terribly romantic to me. I guess I'm kind of old fashioned.<br />Aside from that I thought the plot was flimsy and the story line involving his sister and his father's best friend was disgusting.<br />In short if you're an incurable romantic and love poignant, sweet romances look elsewhere.	2002-02-27
US	42666214	R2NVWX7AI621VR	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A terrific story!	I don't like romance books that are set in the middle ages. However, all the great reviews this book got made me curious. So I bought it and it sat on my bookshelf for a while before I picked it up, and then I couldn't put it down! It is one of the best romances I've ever read! Since all the other reviews have dealt with the story I'll just say this: If you love romance GET THIS BOOK!	2001-11-07
