US	42697264	R14LOCJLMYOBR7	0312962126	673158720	Extinct	Books	4	3	4	N	N	CHARLES WILSON'S "EXTINCT"	EXTINCT is a fast-paced novel of unimagined terror arising from the depths.  When something very much like a great white shark, but bigger, begins cutting a bloody swath up the Mississippi coast, marine bioligist Alan Freeman teams up with beautiful charter boat captain Carolyn Haines to track it down.  But the navy's own eccentric Admiral Vandiver is also on the unidentified sea-monster's trail...will Vandiver's personal quest be a boon to Alan and Carolyn, or consign them and Carolyn's young son to a terrible death?   Author Charles Wilson knows exactly how to turn the screws on his readers and the action and suspense in this one will keep you glued from one breathless page to the next.  And while EXTINCT doesn't have time for deep introspection, Wilson does make his characters interesting and relatively believable.  Also, the idea of a huge man-eating shark getting into a coastal river isn't as outrageous as some reviewers have stated--it's actually happened a number of times, and while the bull shark is the most common intruder, other sharks (including the infamous great white) have turned the same trick, so Wilson's plot is hardly impossible.  Though not a literary landmark, EXTINCT is solid, gripping good fun, and what's wrong with that?  Sometimes a little escapism is just what we need.	2005-07-16
US	42697264	R3I98J1UTDENU5	0812505158	691093854	The War of the Worlds (Tor Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THE ORIGINAL "WAR OF THE WORLDS"	This is the novel that started it all--the first serious exploration of what mankind's first exposure to Martians might be like.  H.G. Wells was of course a visionary--as testified by not only THE WAR OF THE WORLDS but a number of other immortal works such as THE TIME MACHINE and THE ISLAND OF DR. MOREAU--and even his most outlandish plots are underpinned by enough realism and science-fact to make the reader believe they could indeed actually happen.  THE WAR OF THE WORLDS is no exception, and his Martian invaders and the trail of devastation they leave on Earth are portrayed as believably as possible for the time in which the book was written.  Believable or not, THE WAR OF THE WORLDS is one of the most exciting and entertaining sci-fi novels ever composed.  From the first timeless sentence (\\"No one would have believed in the last years of the nineteenth century that this world was being watched keenly and closely by intelligences greater than man's and yet as mortal as his own...\\") to the initial haphazard Martian landings through to the unstoppable onslaught of the nearly-invincible Martian titans and their merciless poison gas and heat-rays, the story careens toward its inevitable conclusion.  Can Man marshall his resources to finally save himself from total extermination?  The answer, actually, is a resounding NO.  If you really want to find out just what that means for Man's ultimate fate then there are several other reviews here that will spell it out for you in frankly disappointing detail, but I'd rather not spoil it for any prospective readers out there that haven't been exposed to the climax just yet.  Without question, this is the best alien invasion story ever put to paper, and as good as the cinematic adaptations have been the novel outshines them all.  Wells' first-person narrative rings true throughout, with quite a bit of introspection, social commentary, and philosophy worked in.  Wells was an opinionated man with some questionable ideas about religion, history, society, and humankind in general, and it's very possible WAR OF THE WORLDS was at least partially written as an indictment of Western (specifically English) imperialism.  But for the record, the story is NOT anti-religous, even if its author was, and the narrator prays several times and at one point must stand a private trial before God.  But whatever one thinks of Wells' personal theories and biases, he was an amazing storyteller whose intentions at least were honorable, much like George Orwell, and who left behind a literary legacy that will survive the ages.  Indeed, I doubt even an alien invasion could wipe it out...gion, history, society, and humankind in general, and it's very possible WAR OF THE WORLDS was at least partially written as an indictment of Western (specifically English) imperialism.  But for the record, the story is NOT anti-religous, even if its author was, and the narrator prays several times and at one point must stand a private trial before God.  But whatever one thinks of Wells' personal theories and biases, he was an amazing storyteller whose intentions at least were honorable, much like George Orwell, and who left behind a literary legacy that will survive the ages.  Indeed, I doubt even an alien invasion could wipe it out...	2005-07-15
US	42697264	R2HWS3HABHZFS6	1581345607	471862848	Tilly	Books	4	5	6	N	N	THE POWER OF FORGIVENESS	Best-selling author Frank E. Peretti, famous for supernatural Christian thrillers like THE OATH and THE VISITATION, here turns his considerable literary skills to the smaller, more personal story of a woman struggling to come to terms with a past sin and its eternal consequences.  When Kathy and Dan Ross stumble upon a strangely familiar woman praying over an unusual tombstone, a series of events is triggered that will force Kathy to turn to the only light that can dispell the darkness smothering her life and marriage:  her Savior's forgiveness.  Not a long story, TILLY is a tight, quick-reading novella that flows irresistibly.  Peretti does wonders with short, concise descriptions and characterizations that give TILLY a believability often missed in longer works.  Not a throwaway escapist work of fiction, TILLY digs deep into the human heart to wrestle with two important themes no man or woman can ever really deny:  the reality of our sin and the promise of love and redemption in spite of it.  TILLY is a moving, heartwarming tale that everyone should read at least once.  It will break your heart--and put it back together again.	2005-06-20
US	42697264	R3MJCJH2XSOKGL	0764226312	718986004	ARENA	Books	4	2	2	N	N	INTO THE ARENA	Bold, daring, inspriational and highly original, Karen Hancock's debut novel is a rewarding book on many levels.  True, it's an allegory, and most allegories are doomed from the outset thanks to their almost inborn heavy-handedness.  But Hancock's writing rises above the type's normal limitations.  The author has created a highly belieavable fantasy world and a story that is a great sci-fi thriller even if the reader is totally ignorant of the Christian underpinnings.  The writer's attention to detail, character, and plot keep the story from ever being preachy and make for a breakneck good read that zips along easily.   <br /> <br />What is the story, you ask?  Young Callie Hayes is an apparently gifted and bright young woman whose life is nonetheless a whopping disappointment.  Shiftless and disillusioned, Callie lets her best friend Meg persuade her to sign up for a supposedly harmless \\"psychology experiement\\" for a few kicks and some extra money.  But the men in charge of the experiment don't seem quite right, and when the experiment begins Callie finds herself in a strange, alien landscape with little but an uncertain set of instructions to guide her through the dangers ahead.  Whatever's going on, Callie quickly learns its nothing more nor less than life and death, and it will take all she has--and more--to escape the man-eating plants, marauding mutants, and stalking reptillian Watchers who threaten her every move.  Willie Callie ever make it back to her own world again, and if so at what cost? <br /> <br />ARENA is a wonderful adventure story, but thankfully it's even more than that.  Hancock may not hit you over the head with her Christian symbolism, but it's all the more persuasive and insightful because of that.  Hancock handles a lot of issues easily and believably, including the reality of men and women's inherent dependance upon God (whether they want to admit it or not), free will, and the nature of the ongoing but often unseen battle between God and the Devil.  Nor are her characters paper cutouts.  They struggle with all the normal human needs and desires, including their own built-in selfishness and baser urges like sex.  But if ARENA is largely an adventure novel, there's a lot of romance too, which the author handles carefully and convincingly with all the ups-and-downs inevitable in human love.   <br /> <br />ARENA is a thoughtfully conceived and lovingly well-written book that deserves to be read by every Christian and perhaps more to the point by non-Christians as well.  It will make you think even as it entertains you, and that's a tough combination to beat.  Easily recommended.   <br /> <br />	2005-06-20
US	42697264	R1BZK63HHAKX12	0698118413	37363988	I Am Mordred: A Tale of Camelot	Books	4	0	0	N	N	WHAT IS DESTINY?	Can you beat fate?  That's the central question at the heart of Nancy Springer's excellent novel I AM MORDRED, and it never makes for anything less than a thoughtful and engrossing read.  Springer's Mordred is not born bad but everyone else--most of whom know his supposed destiny before Mordred himself--thinks he is thanks to Merlin the Magician's well-known prophecy that Mordred will one day rise up against his father, King Arthur, and murder him.  But are Merlin's words infallible?  Desperate to put the lie to the prophecy, young Sir Mordred sets off on a quest to make his own destiny and discover elusive happiness.  Springer imbues her protagonist with a unique empathy, and it's impossible not to identify with Mordred as he struggles to forge his own identity and cast off the prophecy's dark shroud.  Springer is no less deft with the other Arthurian personalities who interract with young Mordred, and her portrayals of Mordred's famous half-brother Gawain, Nyneve, the bold Sir Pelleas, Morgan le Fey, and King Arthur himself are all handled with expert dexterity.  This is not a feel-good novel, however, and the conclusion is open to more than one interpretation.  Nonetheless a highly recommended adaptation of a vital piece of Arthurian lore, and one which ought to be particularly well-received by its target teenage audience.	2005-01-23
US	42697264	R4PHSRTYJX454	0802824994	765448415	John Wesley: A Biography	Books	5	31	35	N	N	JOHN WESLEY:  A BIOGRAPHY	Stephen Tomkins has written a highly engaging and thoroughly informative book that shines a shimmering spotlight on the man who was the founder of Methodism and one of the greatest religious reformers in Western history.  Linear, concise, and lively, Tomkins's book takes the reader from Wesley's fiery near-death as a child through his formulation of a stringent code of self-discipline (which, strict as it was, failed to protect Wesley from a string of unfortunate romances) and tireless days and nights of hard riding and preaching through his death and far-reaching influence.  The Wesley who emerges is a fascinating individual, flawed as all men inevitably are but one who answered the unique call God had upon his life with an admirable resolve.  Tomkins has a clear command of the facts and his analysis is uniformly logical and not without humor.  Highly recommended not only to Methodists but to any student of Christian history.	2005-01-14
US	42697264	R1QJ0H9E9FDEM1	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	5	6	15	N	N	BOOK TWELVE:  GLORIOUS APPEARING	At last, the long-awaited final chapter in the blockbuster Left Behind saga.  The Antichrist's gargantuan army marshalls to squash the rebel holdouts in Petra and Jerusalem beneath a sky broiling with supernatural portents, while believers the world over turn their heads to the heavens in anticipation of their Lord and Savior's prophesied return.  It is indeed the end of the world as we know it, and no one who survives will ever be the same again.    GLORIOUS APPEARING is a worthy finale to one of the most astonishing publishing phenomenon's of the past ten years.  Despite opening with a gut-wrenching shock carried over from the last book, there are not as many cliffhangers as in some previous books from the series, as much of what transpires has been scripted centuries ago and the few surviving members of the Tribulation Force are consequently reduced to bystander status.  Even so, the very subject matter is engrossing, and the authors carry it off well. This time around the excitement comes less from the suspense of WHAT will happen as it does HOW things will happen, and the story rarely disappoints.  The prose is fluid and reads quickly, and the familiar cast of characters is handled with the authors' usual aplomb.  The protagonists are people we as readers have come to know and love in a certain sense, and it's highly rewarding to see how things fall into place around them on a global scale.  The villains are their usual despicable selves:  Nicolae Carpathia, cruller and more barbaric than ever, hopelessly arrogant, and consumed by an evil even he probably doesn't fully compreheand; Leon Fortunato, Carpathia's cowardly but blindly loyal false prophet; and countless nameless but coldhearted soldiers in their diabolical cause.  Everyone has finally reached the end of a long and winding road, and each one's destiny WILL be fulfilled.    As most anyone reading this review will already be aware, Jesus Christ is the dominant character of this book.  Though an inevitability given the subject matter of the whole storyline, the Lord's personal appearance does pose a few problems for any writer. How to portray the Son of God in an extra-Biblical story without flirting with blasphemy?  The authors' solution is twofold:  they rarely show Jesus doing anything not more or less directly alluded to in Revelation itself, and when Christ speaks He generally does so by quoting Holy Scripture.  Not every reader is satisfied with this strategy, but in this reviewer's opinion it was the best way to go.  It is certainly less risky than putting words in the Lord's mouth, and this approach allows the authors to keep from stepping wholly out of Christ's character.  Doubtless the authors fail to capture the Lord's true glory, but after all we now see but through a glass darkly, and I do think they pull off a reasonable mortal effort.    Which leads to some of the criticisms that have been levelled against GLORIOUS APPEARING, most of which I frankly do not understand.  Some charge that Christ is portrayed in a bloodthirsty manner, but at no point is the Jesus of GLORIOUS APPEARING anything other than loving and merciful.  Christ does bring with Him divine retirbution, but that is only just, and more than that he brings peace and life to a dying world.  The idea that Christ will one day come as the ultimate judge of one and all and destroy the power of the Antichrist is entirely Biblical, and I for one do not see how any positive end would have been served by portraying an unscriptural Second Coming in which the Savior simply tells everyone to go on about their business as usual.  Would anyone really want that?      There are some legitimate theological questions, of course, not merely with GLORIOUS APPEARING but with the Left Behind series as a whole.  Not all orthodox Christians agree in their interpretations of end-time prophecy, not even all Evangelicals.  Indeed, many Christian denominations have a very different view of the Rapture and the Millennium than that ascribed to by many Evangelicals, and the majority of Christians worldwide probably see Revelation in a much less literal light than do the authors of this series or many of their readers.  For the record, the terms \\"Evangelical\\" and \\"fundamentalist\\" are NOT synonymous, though the Left Behind authors seem to think they should be.  Occasionally the authors make some rather tenuous and even insulting assumptions about the nature of legitimate Christian worship, such that some readers who otherwise agree with the authors may find themselves unnecessarily belittled.  Moreover, it is unclear just how the rebuilt and later underground churches that are \\"left behind\\" are actually organized.  Many of the denominational differences that plague the modern Church seem to have disappeared in the new body of believers that arises in the wake of the Rapture, and that is almost certainly a good thing, but other than an obvious and undeniably necessary emphasis on end-times prophecy little can be definitively said about the doctrine preached to these new believers.  It does appear staunchly Evangelical, without a trace of liturgy or historical creed, and in the whole twelve books I don't immediately recall any believer ever being baptized.  There is certainly no recorded observance of the Lord's Supper, particularly strange since Christ Himself clearly instructs believers to do so, which even a newly organized band of followers who derived their doctrine solely from Scripture (as this reviewer certainly believes every church should) ought to have eventually discovered.  There's a lot to admire in the way the story's characters pray, worship, and study the Word, but the authors do present a pretty narrow view of Christian worship, one which many readers may not appreciate in every instance, particularly some of the insinuations of what constitutes a \\"dead\\" church.  Fortunately such swipes are rare.  Of course, you can never please everyone anyway, so perhaps the authors were sensible not to try.  Their message is, at least, consistent and generally positive.    On a purely literary level the Left Behind books are not beyond reproach.  The prose style is fast, lively, and usually fun, but it's rarely masterful.  The dialogue is highly readable but not necessarily always realistic, and the series sometimes seems built upon a neverending skeleton of airborne escapes, one after the other and often too similar for credibility's sake.  Even so, I don't think Jerry Jenkins is anywhere nearly as bad a writer as some want to make him out to be.  There are many worse prose stylists out there, and at least Jenkins usually keeps his story moving in an entertaining direction.  Still, these are not the best books you'll ever read, nor even the best religious fiction.  C.S. Lewis generally wrote much shorter but denser works of far greater literary authority, and he wasn't the only one.  These are not classics, but rather good popular fiction with a very uplifting message.    Another criticism that is impossible to answer is that of the authors' motivation.  No doubt the whole Left Behind series has generated an enormous income for both Jerry Jenkins and Tim LaHaye.  That fact hardly invalidates the whole enterprise.  It is no sin to make money, as long as it's done honestly.  Given the inherent subject matter, of course, it would be harder to excuse naked commercialism in this instance than it otherwise is.  Right now the most I can say about this issue is that nobody has proven either Jenkins or LaHaye to be a hack and therefore I see no point in assuming that's what they are.  If it is evident the authors have been highly sensitive to commercial appeal in putting their landmark series together, it is also true somebody had to study an awful lot of Scripture to make it all work, and the final product is one that has certainly been an enormous evangelical tool that has given untold inspiration to Christians and even non-Christians all over the world.  Until somebody can prove the authors had an ulterior motive, it seems rather pointless to argue about it.    In fact GLORIOUS APPEARING is probably not the last word in this series.  Readers are hearing there will be both a prequel and a sequel, so who knows when the story will really end?  Millions of readers, however, will always be glad to read just one more chapter in this amazing epic.    Which begs another question:  why do so many who evidently neither like these books or even believe in their underlying Christian theology seem to read them for the sole purpose of putting down those who do get something positive out of them?  Why purposely read something you know you're going to hate, and then blame others for it?      Ultimately, there is much more good than bad to be said about GLORIOUS APPEARING and the rest of the Left Behind series.  Even though many Christians disagree on the details of what will someday be the End of Days, all Christian churches preach the return of Jesus Christ and the eternal life of believers.  The Left Behind story is one interpretation of end-times theology, and if the specifics are not something all Christians can agree on then surely the basic elements of God's undying love for us all and the redemption brought to us by His only begotten Son are things we as believers can stand united upon.  Certainly, Left Behind and its numerous sequels are NOT Scripture, and however convincing they may sometimes feel the stories they tell are at best educated guesses.  Regardless, the whole is a tale of divine love such as the realm of fiction has only rarely been a party to, and one that Christians and non-Christians alike have derived inestimable inspiration from.  It's not perfect, but the epic of Left Behind is one I would invite anyone--Protestant, Catholic, Jew, or atheist--to sample for their own edification and reading pleasure.  You just might be surprised what you find there.	2004-11-29
US	42697264	R2QQF9TILOAW5H	0842332367	871070652	Armageddon (Left Behind #11)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	BOOK ELEVEN:  ARMAGEDDON	The end of the world draws nigh, and believers and non-believers alike are making their ultimate preparations.  Nicolae Carpathia rallies his armies for what will be the final battle, and the Tribulation Force mobilizes for one last mission as Petra and Jerusalem brace for impact.  The eleventh entry in the Left Behind saga based on Revelation, ARMAGEDDON takes more than a few unexpected turns, ratcheting the excitement to new highs.  Many readers may be shocked by some of the plot twists in this novel, but the underlying postitive message of the Gospel itself trumps even the grimmest disaster.  The authors rely somewhat less in ARMAGEDDON on a number of devices that have been overdone in previous entries, and the result is a more fresh, lively, and believable narrative than some of what has gone before.  Fans of the series who have made it this far shouldn't be disappointed in this entry (though they may be in for a surprise or two), but critics will probably not find anything to change their minds, either.  Why the latter insists on reading something they so clearly despise I cannot fathom, but the rest of us are happy to have them along for the ride!  Despite the action-laden script, the story remains largely character-driven.  We've seen Rayford Steele, Buck Williams, Tsion Ben-Judah, Chloe, George, Chang, Albie and all the rest go through a lot to reach this point, but the biggest thrills are yet to come and it's hard not to cheer for each of them to make it through to the end.  ARMAGEDDON is yet another fast, easy read in this amazing end-times saga, and this time all eyes are on the heavens and the promised return of Jesus Christ.  The Glorious Appearing is at hand...	2004-11-24
US	42697264	R3SRB2HYW6N5S1	0842332308	112772440	The Remnant: On the Brink of Armageddon (Left Behind)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	BOOK TEN:  THE REMNANT	THE REMNANT is every bit as exciting, fluid, and even inspiring as fans of the spectacular Left Behind series have come to expect these books to be.  Antichrist Nicolae Carpathia leaves no stone unturned in his ongoing attempt to dominate every human on the planet and wipe out the believers assembled at Petra.  Somehow God's own remain beyond his grasp, and angels appear to proclaim the gospel and protect defenseless believers.  Despite the obvious hand of God moving upon the world, many remain unaccountably stubborn and refuse to submit to Christ, sealing their own regrettable but inevitable fate.  The Tribulation Force is forced to evaluate whether or not there really is such a thing as a \\"safe house\\" anymore, and George Sebastian struggles to escape a seemingly impenetrable GC trap in one of the most thrilling episodes of the whole series.  Though engaging on almost every level, THE REMNANT does have some flaws.  The authors take a couple of unfortunate digs at non-evangelical Christians, at one point implying that even Jesus wouldn't want to go to their churches.  There's still a lot of jetting around in the series' ongoing over-reliance on airborne escapes, and Chloe Williams continues to annoy with her adolescent desire to never miss out on any of the \\"action\\" even though it's clear she's of greatest benefit as head of the international co-op.  And Carpathia's ruling cadre (and most of the rest of the GC) is composed of so many hapless dunderheads that it defies credulity.  No organization handled with such incompetency could ever even survive, let alone conquer the world.  Despite these shortcomings, THE REMNANT flies along at a rapid clip highlighted by fun dialogue and breakneck action.  The characters are for the most part likeable and you can't help but pull for them.  The basic message remains pertinent and urgent as ever, even if one disagrees with some of the details.  Overall yet another easy-to-recommend entry in this astonishing series.	2004-11-21
US	42697264	R3GMJU6NN6CNAA	0842332294	321826248	Desecration: Antichrist Takes the Throne (Left Behind No. 9)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	BOOK NINE:  DESECRATION	At long last, the Antichrist takes the very throne of God and makes a gory mockery of the Temple of the Jews.  Those who finally see Carpathia's diabolical nature for what it is cannot bring themselves to follow him any longer--but for those who already have the mark of loyalty, it's far too late.  God's wrath begins to be poured out on an evil world in earnest, first in the form of excrutiating boils on all unbelievers and then the oceans of the world are turned to blood.  An enraged Carpathia launches an all-out offensive against the followers of Tsion Ben-Judah and Chaim Rosenzweig, and the Tribulation Force must decide if it will fight...or die.  Perhaps the most exciting book in the series to this point, DESECRATION piles one thrilling plot point on top of the next, making for a read that absolutely flies past.  Interesting subplots involve Hattie Durham, who suddenly steps *very* much out of character, and teenage genius Chang, the only person in the world with BOTH marks.  Chloe Williams goes out on a risky limb, and it appears that the Trib Force's invisibility is finally waning.  Like most of the other books in this series, this one climaxes with a major cliffhanger, though a decidedly grimmer one than has come before.  Fans of the saga will absolutely LOVE this entry, and I really can't help but wonder why those who profess to hate the whole story continue to \\"torture\\" themselves by reading each and every book!  Go figure.  Greatly enjoyable and an irresistible lead-in to THE REMNANT (Book Ten), DESERECATION is certainly recommended.	2004-11-16
US	42697264	RGA1A00NQG76L	0842332286	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind No. 8)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	BOOK EIGHT:  THE MARK	In THE MARK, the resurrected Nicolae Carpathia finally forces everyone in the world to make a choice:  worship him, or die.  The choice is irrevocable:  if you take the mark of loyalty you are spared the guillotine, but unbeknownst to millions worldwide that same mark sentences any who take it to an eternity in hell.  The familiar characters of the Tribulation Force are determined to do all they can to save as many as possible, but how many will choose their own damnation?  Meanwhile the Antichrist's false miracles strike down many, and the \\"new\\" Carpathia proves far more evil than he ever dared to be before.  As with all the other books in the series to this point, the prose style is easily digestible and the message inspiring despite all the dire happenings.  Much has been made of a seemingly incredible plot twist involving young Chang, but the eventual explanation is at least somewhat plausible.  Overall THE MARK is certainly enjoyable, and a scene near the end where believers resolutely refuse Carpathia's mark despite the grim consequences is exceptionally poignant, especially considering the day will inevitably come when some will find themselves in that very situation.  The only real negative is that the authors' continue to rely on some of the same literary devices that were starting to get old a few books back, but since the context is always changing the plot usually keeps on chugging.  Definitely a quality entry in a spellbinding series.	2004-11-16
US	42697264	R28H8DNTL7TUYC	084232920X	499654908	Assassins (Left Behind, Book 6)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	BOOK SIX:  ASSASSINS	If you could kill the Antichrist, would you?  That's the central question at the heart of this, the sixth novel in the blockbuster end-times series by Tim Lahaye and Jerry Jenkins, and the answer is more complicated than you might think, as several of the series' familiar characters discover for themselves.  Normally rock-solid Rayford Steele takes a ride on a downward spiral in this one, and Nicolae Carpathia's evil continues to escalate.  Meanwhile 200 million supernatural horsemen ride the earth wreaking terrifying havoc, and the fate of the two Witnesses is revealed.  Critics of this evangelical phenomenon won't like this book either, but fans of the enormously popular series will find it's one of the most exciting entries in the series, right up to the chaotic cliffhanger ending.  Just what happened, and who did it?  ASSASSINS also boasts some of the most introspective and best writing since LEFT BEHIND itself, as we really get to see what's going on in the characters' turbulent minds.  A great uplifting thriller, and certainly recommended.	2004-10-29
US	42697264	R3UN0X782EV4ZN	0842329293	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind No. 7)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	BOOK SEVEN:  THE INDWELLING	The leader of the world is dead, and the relentless search for the killer is on.  But just who did kill Nicolae Carpathia, and where to they go from here?  This is perhaps the slowest-moving entry in the blockbuster series so far, with relatively little action and most of the narrative tied up in funeral preparations for the slain Carpathia.  Rayford Steele and Chaim Rosenzweig must both struggle with their inner demons, and Leon Fortunato prepares to assume the reigns of the world.  But the mourners who witness Carpathia's funeral are in for quite a shock...though an enticing, easy read, THE INDWELLING is a bit slow at times and does rely on some of the same escape scenarios the series has so prominently featured from the get-go but which are slowly becoming rather repetitive.  Nonetheless, the authors continue to piece together a thoughtful, spiritual narrative that usually entertains despite some minor weaknesses.  If nothing else, THE INDWELLING is an irresistible lead-in to the next entry, THE MARK.  Not perfect, but still easily recommended.	2004-10-29
US	42697264	R27TRUDZXXIXP1	0842329161	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind #5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	BOOK FIVE:  APOLLYON	If not quite as graphic or spectacular as advertised in the cover copy, APOLLYON is still an excellent continuation to the captivating Left Behind series.  More space is devoted to doctrine and character development and interaction than in most of the previous books, with the result that APOLLYON doesn't move quite as quickly.  Despite the generally slower pace, author Jerry Jenkins knows how to keep his target audience interested and the big payoff at the end--a horrifying plague of demonic insects--is quite scary.  Another high point is the gathering of believers in Israel to hear Tsion Ben-Judah preach the gospel...even as Nicolae Carpathia plans to crash the party.  Whose voice will the assembled believe?  Meanwhile Buck and Chloe Williams anticipate the birth of their child and Hattie Durham struggles to come to grips with the life she has made for herself.  Another quality reading experience from Jenkins/Lahaye with an eternally pertinent message.	2004-08-16
US	42697264	RHWB6SC4NRU5U	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	BOOK FOUR:  SOUL HARVEST	Following the devastating worldwide earthquake that is the Wrath of the Lamb, both the world's Tribulation saints and followers of Nicolae Carpathia alike struggle to survive in a literally upended world.  As Buck Williams and Rayford Steele search for their missing wives, unsure if either woman even survived the global cataclysm, scholar Tsion Ben-Judah's Internet evangelism draws so many truth-starved souls even the Antichrist is taken aback and left scrambling for a response.  Meanwhile, Carpathia's pregnant former lover Hattie Durham struggles with the twin burdens of her unwanted child and her own sin.  Will she accept forgiveness in time?  And a potentially devastating secret begins to slowly emerge that could shake the Tribulation Force to its foundations.  Like every book in this series, SOUL HARVEST is a fast, easy, and exciting read that succeeds both as a thriller and an introduction to basic end-times theology.  The characters are believable and charismatic and the authors work in some nice humor to lighten a frequently grim tale.  Like all Left Behind books, SOUL HARVEST interprets Revelation through strongly Evangelical eyes, but the greater Christian truths invoked in the story--like God's unfailing love for each of us, the reality of true evil, and an impending day of judgment--go beyond denominational boundaries.  A highly entertaining read and food for thought as well.	2004-07-26
US	42697264	R208W9FGNXV1BO	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	BOOK THREE:  NICOLAE	The ongoing saga of Rayford Steele, Buck and Chloe Williams and the rest of the beleaguered Tribulation Force as they struggle to survive not only the wicked machinations of Anitchrist Nicolae Carpathia but World War III and the Tribulation itself. Having firmly established the current cast of characters in the previous two books, the authors turn the screws tight in ths one and the result is non-stop action from start to finish. Not necessarily a better all-round book than LEFT BEHIND or TRIBULATION FORCE, but definitely more exciting. Buck Williams's flight through the desert with renegade scholar Tsion Ben-Judah is an atompsheric heartstopper, but that's nothing compared to the awesome power of the Wrath of the Lamb. Great entry in the landmark series blends Christian theology and first-class thrills almost flawlessly. And you'll jump straight from this one's tumultuous cliffhanger ending to the next book, SOUL HARVEST. Obviously recommended!	2004-07-24
US	42697264	R33M9WPHIZODXK	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	BOOK TWO:  TRIBULATION FORCE	This successful follow-up to the runaway bestseller &quot;Left Behind&quot; continues the story of a group of new Christians trying to keep the faith in a virtually de-Christianized world following the miraculous Rapture.  As Nicolae Carpathia continues his rise to power behind a facade of peace and reconciliation, will even America dare to oppose him?  And will the Tribulation Force be able to stay under the Antichrist's radar even as Rayford Steele and Buck Williams find themselves drawn deeper and deeper into his malevolent web?  Exciting and extraordinarily well thought out, &quot;Tribulation Force&quot; is both fun and thoughtful and inspiring as well.  Some criticize the authors for injecting a heavy dose of romance into the story with this book, but in fact the burgeoning love between Chloe Steele and Buck is handled particularly well and it's not as if Christians are universally called to celibacy.  God is the father of love and saw fit to put the first couple together, after all.  Yes, Christians need love too!  Theologically the authors stay in tune with modern Evangelicals, but in my opinion even Christians from other churches can still derive a lot of pleasure and satisfaction from this moving saga.  A great book on its own terms and a compelling lead-in to the next entry in the series, &quot;Nicolae,&quot; which promises to be even more exciting.  Highly recommended!	2004-07-10
US	42697264	R1DQLCMEMQ3K71	0618009361	99535500	Farmer Giles of Ham : The Rise and Wonderful Adventures of Farmer Giles, Lord of Tame, Count of Worminghall, and King of the Little Kingdom	Books	4	6	7	N	N	SHORT AND VERY SWEET!	Farmer Giles doesn't want to be hero, but when a deaf, near-sighted giant comes stamping on all his favorite cows, he grabs up his blunderbuss and becomes one anyway.  Everyone sees ol' Giles in a new light after that, even the King, so when a dragon flies into the area to do what dragons will, there's no doubt in anybody's mind--except Giles's--who should play the dragonslayer.  Is Giles up to the part?  Or will he and his trusty old mare and loyal dog Garm end up as dragon-bait?  Either way, you know it's not the end of the story...<br />...and a mighty fine story, it is.  &quot;Farmer Giles of Ham&quot; is a simple delight, short and very sweet.  Giles is a charming curmudgeon who just might have it in him to be a little more, and the various supporting characters (including the aforementioned animals, as well as the local miller, parson, and the doom-saying blacksmith)come to brilliant life with short, deft strokes of Tolkien's witty, ingenious pen, while the author's observations of courtly life and what it might do to a King and his knights are brilliant satire. Hardly the least interesting characters are the blundering giant and the not-so-terrible dragon, the last of which is one of the most delightfully memorable of his ilk in literature.  No, it's not &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; and anyone expecting that kind of depth or scale will be sorely disappointed.  On the other hand, many of the fairy tale elements from this book are reminiscent of &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; though they certainly carry a much lighter spin here. Highly suited for children, but fantasy fans of any age can and will appreciate it. The whole tale is a laugh-outloud-riot, and it's short enough to be consumed in only an hour or so.  What, and a magic sword too?!?  This one's got it all!	2004-05-14
US	42697264	R3KI6N47K84UG9	0760313466	347037526	Illustrated Directory of Modern American Weapons	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MODERN AMERICAN WEAPONS	Edited by David Miller, &quot;The Illustrated Directory of Modern American Weapons&quot; is a compact and fairly comprehensive guide to the wide range of sophisticated armaments available to the U.S. Armed Forces at the outset of the ongoing &quot;War on Terror.&quot;  As to be expected from MBI Publishing Company's &quot;Illustrated Directory&quot; military series, the book is well-stocked with informative, easy-to-read entries for every major weapons system along with over three hundred photographs, most of them of good quality. Specifactions cover such high-profile vehicles as the F-117 Nighthawk stealth bomber, the F-18 Hornet, Ohio-class nuclear sub, M1 main battle tank, and the Paladin self-propelled howitzer to the weapons they carry--like the Maverick air-to-surface missile and torpedoes--to the lighter but lethal small arms our ground troops rely on in melee, like the M16, M24 sniper rifle, and the M9 9mm pistol.  This is almost certainly the most complete guide to American weapons currently available, and the price is unbeatable. Recommended to all military buffs or anyone who wants to know more about the tools our men and women in uniform rely on in the thick of battle.	2004-05-09
US	42697264	R37PQU8XYNLAU	0517120771	69202422	Tolkien Bestiary	Books	4	4	5	N	N	THE MONSTERS OF MIDDLE-EARTH	&quot;A bestiary is a book about beasts,&quot; writes author David Day in the introduction to his own splendid addition to that unique literary genre, a class of books that has come down to us from the medieval imagination and refuses to be extinguished by modern science altogether.  And Day's book is indeed about the beasts and alien life of Tolkien's wonderful world (fire-drakes, dwarves, giant spiders, elves, eagles, orcs, trolls, ents, half-orcs, and of course Hobbits, to name but a few), but it is so much more as well.  Intermingled with all the articles and descriptions about Middle-earth's various monsters, animals and even races are valuable nuggests of information and history tied in to virtually every facet of Tolkien's beloved dreamworld, plus a quality map of Middle-earth and a pair of timelines helpful for sorting out some of the historical background at a glance.  Turning through this book's beautiful pages is not only an opportunity to savor monsters of myth and magic, but a chance to see how the various elements of a great writer's imagination all fit together to create one of the most enduring literary landscapes of all time.  Be that as it may, it is still a book that fulfills its face purpose masterfully.  The alphabetized catalogue of Middle-earth's legendary denizes is written in a clear, rather academic but eminently friendly and engaging style that makes reading its contents an easy, almost compulsory task.  The illustrations, both color and monocrhome, are eye-catching, classy, and distinctive.  Perhaps too distinctive for some tastes; attractive as the pictures are individually and as a whole, they are highly stylized and often quite unrealistic.  Those who are accustomed to more true-to-life pictures may not be satisfied with much of this book's otherwise outstanding artwork. Overall, however, the book is both visually appealing and intellectually stimulating, and one that most any Tolkien devotee or fantasy afficianado should enjoy throughmany repeated perusals. Definitely recommended.	2004-05-08
US	42697264	R1Y85ZKYKKGK60	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	2	8	N	Y	A PLEASANT SURPRISE!	What's left to say?  The Left Behind series has been such a phenomenon and elicited so many reviews from fans and critics alike that just about every positive or negative angle has been previously explored.  Let me just say that I was so influenced by the poor reviews of this series and its authors' theology that I balked at even giving it a chance.  Plus, &quot;Left Behind&quot; itself is merely the first installment of a very lengthy series, and my reading experience has been that most epic novels or series are usually plodding, padded, and boring.  Fortunately, I finally took the plunge despite all that and am I glad I did!  &quot;Left Behind's&quot; plot--what if God were to suddently take up all the world's believers to spare them the coming end times tribulation leading up to the climactic battle of Armageddon--is inherently fascinating, and one the authors' play out with unflagging drama.  However, it is the characters which pull the reader along as we experience this awesome story through their personal tragedies and triumphs.  This human side to the story is rendered with great care and believability.  The reactions from media and intelluctual elite to what has happened to all the world's Christians are handled far more accurately than some would like to admit, as is the interaction between the several protagonists as they struggle to come to grips with being &quot;left behind&quot; and what they must face up to now.  Contrary to some negative reviews, the writing is quite good.  It may not be Shakespeare, but Jerry Jenkins's prose is fluid, easily digested, and keeps you turning the pages.  I also find the dialogue quite realistic, and in fact it accurately recreates the conversations many Evangelical Christians routinely find themselves in.  On purely theological grounds, even if one is not necessarily in agreement with Tim Lahaye concerning the interpretation of Last Things and the book of Revelation, &quot;Left Behind&quot; nonetheless gives you a lot to think about and is a great faith-booster to any denomination of Christian reader.  Even Christians from groups which do not believe in the Rapture (as modern Evangelicals use the term) certainly believe in a Second Coming of our Lord, and &quot;Left Behind&quot; is simply one possible literary interpretation of how that might develop.  As for non-Christians, I should hope they will still be able to enjoy the story and that it will make them carefully consider how valuable their soul really is.  As to Mr. Lahaye's motivation for creating this series, I am no mind reader and will not take a guess at an ulterior motive when there is as yet no proof of that.  Certainly, he has created a series which has helped many strengthen their faith and given great encouragement to those struggling day-to-day to live Godly lives, and indeed has given some readers their first glimpse of the eternal Gospel.  Overall, the good certainly seems to outweigh the bad, at least in this first book of the series.  By the end of the book I was hooked and ready to start the next installment (&quot;Tribulation Force&quot;) ASAP, the first series book to have that effect on me in a long while.  I certainly recommend &quot;Left Behind&quot; and hope any reader will find it as entertaining and inspirational as I did.	2004-04-21
US	42697264	R3JRPRHGOBLCJ8	0060652381	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	7	7	N	N	LEWIS'S A GRIEF OBSERVED	Written in the aftermath of his beloved wife's death, C.S. Lewis's &quot;A Grief Observed&quot; is the great Christian apologist's literary attempt to make sense of the emotional and mental chaos in which he finds himself following that tragic event.  A far cry from the scholarly analysis of most of his other books, &quot;A Grief Observed&quot; is in many ways a book of questions in which the author grapples with trying to understand why God would take his beloved from him, what sort of being God must be, what his wife is now experiencing in the next world and what all this means to his own faith and the rest of his life.  Lewis, quite understandably, is not his usual self here, and the voice of &quot;A Grief Observed&quot; is not at all the same one of &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot; or &quot;Mere Christianity.&quot;  Indeed, it is the naked, heartbroken pain with which Lewis infuses this book (originally published pseudonymously)that makes it such an important, vital, and universal literary achievement. Unfortunately, there are many (quite a few of them have written Amazon reviews)who seem to take some sort of ghoulish delight in Lewis's anguish, as though &quot;A Grief Observed&quot; in some way invalidates all that Lewis had written before, as if Lewis's other books are all irrelevant because he had not previously suffered enough to have written authoritatively on matters like spirituality, pain, and the afterlife.  That is sadistic balderdash, and metaphorically kicking a great man when he is down.  But there's no denying this is Lewis's most personal, heartfelt work, and its power is awesome.  Ultimately, the reader will see a powerful mind and will &quot;come to misunderstand a little less completely&quot; one of this world's most agonizing puzzles, the paralysis of loss, and that in the end faith and God remain.	2004-04-15
US	42697264	R1B2UUBZKCBK7G	B0000VV2AG	8015663	Close to Shore:   A True Story of Terror in an Age of Innocence	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	THE TRUE STORY THAT INSPIRED JAWS	In 1916, in a society in which many of the features (good or bad) of modern America that today we take for granted were just being timidly born, the New Jersey shore was an idyllic Eden that offered rest and tonic to tourists and vacationers from across the country.  But every Eden has its serpent, in this case the seas's most terrifying &quot;monster&quot;--a man-eating shark.  Michael Capuzzo's book is the real-life saga of how the people of the Jersey Shore struggled to deal with this new, unfathomable horror, as well as the story of the shark itself and how it may have ended up in such an unlikely locale and how its bloody ambushes were orchestrated.  Sadly, information we can all get from the Discovery Channel today was unheard of in 1916, and a great many scientists and leaders of the day refused to believe a shark was even capable of such brutal behavior, never mind having any idea what to actually do about it. Capuzzo masterfully recreates the time and place of the tragedy, putting the reader right there with the persons who lived it out in their homes, offices, and even in the deadly water itself.  The author's research is daunting, but the writing itself is miraculously unemcumbered, flowing with a grace and energy most novelists would envy.  It is, in many ways, a better book than Peter Benchley's &quot;Jaws,&quot; which was actually based in part upon this very incident. &quot;Close to Shore&quot; works on multiple levels--historical document, real life drama, and a study of human nature in the face of unmitigated horror.  The end of the book does leave the reader with some questions, so it may well also be a steppingstone to further research.  Highly readable, informative, thrilling and engaging, &quot;Close to Shore&quot; is an easy book to recommend.	2004-04-15
US	42697264	R3QV4FPHKCHI	0743435869	166034461	Killer	Books	4	7	7	N	N	SCI-FI SUSPENSE IN ANCIENT ROME	The arena of Emperor Domitian is always hungry for a new bloodsport, so when an unheard-of strangely-scaled and vaguely simian animal appears in the wake of a fiery explosion, the enterprising men who capture it think it will be no more than a new toy for their Roman \\"lord and god.\\"  But the \\"lizard-ape\\" as they call it has other ideas.  Displaying intelligence and ferocity beyond anything its would-be captors have seen before, the creature escapes.  Can gladiator-turned-beastcatcher Lycon track down this new game in time, or will the streets of Rome run red with blood?<br />A collaboration of renowned science fiction and fantasy authors Karl Edward Wagner and David Drake, \\"Killer\\" is a fast-paced mix of military history, unfettered action, and doomsday thriller.  For the lizard-ape is in fact a particularly diabolic alien, one which if not brought to earth before it's too late will contaminate the whole world with its evil progeny, a contagion for which the only cure is thermonuclear fire.<br />A fast, potent read enlivened with likeable protagonists and villains you love to hate and realistic non-stop action, \\"Killer\\" is a light and engaging white-knuckler that for those who like sci-fi, fantasy or thrillers, is great literary excitement.	2004-02-26
US	42697264	R2XJE3JXFFXD1F	0425192733	994558302	Portrait Of A Killer: Jack The Ripper Case Closed	Books	3	6	9	N	N	CASE CLOSED?	Patricia Cornwell's highly publicized and rather controversial look at the infamous Jack the Ripper killings is an interesting book into which the author has obviously poured countless hours of hard, painstaking research and leg work, and that, combined with the writer's evident sense of justice, is to be much praised and admired.  As a thoughtful examination of one possible angle on the Ripper murders the book largely succeeds; as the airtight posthumous indictment it is supposed to be, however, it comes up short.<br />Cornwell makes several highly questionable decisions in making her case.  She relies heavily on some rather tenuous DNA from the time of the killings, evidence which in this scenario is far too thin for the emphasis the author attempts to hang on it. Her analysis of the suspect's psychological makeup and actions during the period in question are composed largely of speculation and guesswork, devoid of the kind of hard evidence I had hoped to discover.  Cornwell's confidence in the numerous \\"Ripper Letters\\" the police received at the time is hard to swallow, and requires some highly unlikely--though admittedly not impossible--legerdemain on the part of her suspect. Most disturbing is that Cornwell seems to have chosen this suspect very quickly after looking at the Ripper case file, and one has the feeling she has then simply rearranged much of the available information to suit her own presupposition.  That her suspect was at least eccentric and may have had some glaring personal deficiencies is hardly debatable, but that does not automatically make him a serial killer.<br />As a literary work Cornwell's book suffers from a pair of serious drawbacks.  First, the arrogance with which she approaches the case is nearly embarrassing.  She shows no respect whatsoever for others who have published theories on the infamous Whitechapel slayings, and very little for the police who actually worked on the case at the time.  Cornwell's apparent disdain for those who have gone before her is annoying and frequently distracting. Second, the book is badly organized and heavily padded, as the author jumps from one train of thought to the next in no recognizable pattern so as to frequently leave the reader backpedaling to try to catch up, a problem exacerbated by the fact that the book is about a hundred pages too long.  Many of Cornwell's personal commentaries and historical notes are repeated over and over to no obvious purpose. A tighter, more pointed text would have benefitted the author's case immensely.<br />Despite its glaring weaknesses, \\"Portrait of a Killer\\" is a commendable book in many respects.  I would certainly recommend it to Ripper buffs, students of Victorian England, or mystery fans in general. If the author's evidence is not irrefutable, it is at least thought-provoking, and evidently Ms. Cornwell continues to follow up on some of the evidence as we speak, so perhaps an updated edition will tie up some of the loose ends.  Maybe she's even right.  Time will perhaps tell. But as of right now \\"Portrait of a Killer,\\" though admirable, hardly lives up to its subtitle.  A thoughtful, well-researched re-examination of the most infamous serial killer of all time?  Certainly.  But case closed?  *No.*	2004-02-25
US	42697264	R3Q158JVD21E5I	0140422536	485659651	Idylls of the King (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	THE MAGIC OF CAMELOT	For Tennyson, the Arthurian legend was an evolving love affair that lasted throughout the poet's life, and the \\"Idylls of the King\\" is the ultimate offspring of that enchanted love.  Composed of a dozen individual yet interlinked story-poems, the Idylls span the whole of Malory's opus from Arthur's glorious rise to power to his fog-shrouded and mysterious death, \\"lest one good custom should corrupt the world.\\"  But Tennyson humanizes Malory's stories and infuses the whole with an almost Shakespearean aura of tragedy, redefining many of the legendary tales with a new level of gravitas unmatched before or since.  The Idylls include:<br />*  The Coming of Arthur, introducing the Age of Camelot<br />*  Gareth and Lynette, a variation of the popular \\"Fair Unknown\\" theme and one of Arhturiana's most beloved stories as well as perhaps the one which most perfectly embodies the golden values of chivalry<br />*  The Marriage of Geraint, taken from the works of Chretien De Troyes, who called the titular knight \\"Erec\\"<br />*  Geraint and Enid, a lovely tale of marital trust<br />*  Balin and Balan, one of the grimmest and bloodiest of all Arthurian tales, about the struggle between decency and monstrousness within us all<br />*  Merlin and Vivien, the sorcerer's swan song, and the most believable portrayal of the amoral Vivien, too often given a pass by other writers, which I've seen<br />*  Lancelot and Elaine, a tale better known as \\"The Lady of Shalott,\\"in which Tennyson's love for the magnificent yet benighted Lancelot of the Lake shines through<br />*  The Holy Grail, narrated by Sir Percivale, and the most powerful depiction of the Grail Quest there is<br />*  Pelleas and Ettarre, one of my favorite Arthurian tales from Malory and elsewhere, though Tennyson's retelling is a major downer that foreshadows the coming collapse of King Arthur's utopia, and features a Sir Pelleas both nobler and darker than Malory's abused but redeemed knight<br />*  The Last Tournament, a bleak but serendipitious version of the Tristram (Tristan) saga, and which brings the Pelleas story to an ugly close<br />*  Guinevere, focuses on the discovery of her adultery with Lancelot and the ensuing breakup of Camelot, culminating in a heartrending dialogue between King Arthur and his fallen Queen<br />*  The Passing of Arthur, the climactic book of the whole saga, in which King Arthur confronts the traitor Modred, strikes with mighty Excalibur one last time, and Sir Bedivere delivers the King's sword up to the Lady of the Lake<br />Taken as a whole, the Idylls are perhaps the greatest artistic achievement in all of Arthurian literature.  They are not the whole story however, and in fact Tennyson seems to assume his reader is already intimately familiar with Malory's book, so I would recommend newcomers to the legend do their homework first. The Idylls do have a strong, pervasive Christian backbone, much to Tennyson's credit, which automatically puts his work on a far higher moral plane than Bradley's \\"Mists of Avalon\\" and some other contemporary versions of the story.  Moreover, Tennyson does not shy away from the full weight of Guinevere's sin; what she does to both Arthur and Lancelot--and hence to all of Camelot--is awful.  But charges of misogyny are unfounded; both the poet and Arthur himself--as illustrated in the King's moving last words to his estranged wife in the nunnery to which she has fled--hold out hope for the Queen's salvation, and therefore unavoidably so does the reader.  Ultimately, Tennyson's vision of glorious quests, thundering tournaments, Christian valor, doomed love and a hard destiny is perhaps the most heartfelt and stirring of all Arthurian literature, and certainly the perfect companion piece to Malory's own immortal magnum opus.  Beautiful, timeless, and endlessly inspiring, the Idylls will entertain and enlighten us for generations to come.k but serendipitious version of the Tristram (Tristan) saga, and which brings the Pelleas story to an ugly close<br />*  Guinevere, focuses on the discovery of her adultery with Lancelot and the ensuing breakup of Camelot, culminating in a heartrending dialogue between King Arthur and his fallen Queen<br />*  The Passing of Arthur, the climactic book of the whole saga, in which King Arthur confronts the traitor Modred, strikes with mighty Excalibur one last time, and Sir Bedivere delivers the King's sword up to the Lady of the Lake<br />Taken as a whole, the Idylls are perhaps the greatest artistic achievement in all of Arthurian literature.  They are not the whole story however, and in fact Tennyson seems to assume his reader is already intimately familiar with Malory's book, so I would recommend newcomers to the legend do their homework first. The Idylls do have a strong, pervasive Christian backbone, much to Tennyson's credit, which automatically puts his work on a far higher moral plane than Bradley's \\"Mists of Avalon\\" and some other contemporary versions of the story.  Moreover, Tennyson does not shy away from the full weight of Guinevere's sin; what she does to both Arthur and Lancelot--and hence to all of Camelot--is awful.  But charges of misogyny are unfounded; both the poet and Arthur himself--as illustrated in the King's moving last words to his estranged wife in the nunnery to which she has fled--hold out hope for the Queen's salvation, and therefore unavoidably so does the reader.  Ultimately, Tennyson's vision of glorious quests, thundering tournaments, Christian valor, doomed love and a hard destiny is perhaps the most heartfelt and stirring of all Arthurian literature, and certainly the perfect companion piece to Malory's own immortal magnum opus.  Beautiful, timeless, and endlessly inspiring, the Idylls will entertain and enlighten us for generations to come.	2004-02-13
US	42697264	RJ3YHU62MZPM6	1843500728	435933519	Carmilla	Books	5	70	73	N	Y	BEFORE DRACULA THERE WAS CARMILLA	J. Sheridan LeFanu's \\"Carmilla\\" stands as one of the richest, most literate and most enduring stories in the history of the vampire sub-genre.  Many rate it higher than Bram Stoker's \\"Dracula,\\" and while that estimation is at least debatable, there is no debate that \\"Carmilla\\" has exerted a mighty influence, consciously or not, on most vampire fiction to follow in its wake, \\"Dracula\\" not excepted.  Indeed, Stoker's original early chapter in his masterpiece, later published independently as \\"Dracula's Guest,\\" is particularly indebted to LeFanu's earlier work.  As to which is better, let each reader decide for himself--and so enjoy them both!<br />The story is deceptively simple.  A young girl, shaken up in a carriage accident, is left by her traveling mother in the care of the narrator's father.  Laura, the young woman in whose voice we are told the tale, becomes fast friends with her new acquaintance, a friendship that is put to a powerful test when a strange malady begins infesting the idyllic Styrian countryside with nightmares, fever, and death.  <br />LeFanu's style is unhurried, intelligent, and subtle, and the result is an eminently readable tale of mystery and the macabre that holds up remarkably well to repeated perusals.  Though not as famous as \\"Dracula,\\" and certainly written on a much smaller scale than Stoker's epic vampire opus, \\"Carmilla\\" is the more sustained and concentrated of the two.  Many have traditionally argued that the novella, or short novel, is the ideal vehicle for a horror story, allowing for plenty of characterization and plot development without pushing the story itself beyond its dramtic limits.  This reviewer tends to agree, and asserts that whereas \\"Dracula,\\" masterwork that it is, often flags and succumbs to the doldrums, \\"Carmilla\\" never wavers and holds interest to the bittersweet end.<br />Originally published in 1871, \\"Carmilla\\" was quite sensational in its day, but I know many will not judge it to have aged well. A far cry from many modern vampire tales, \\"Carmilla\\" is probably not for everyone, or even every vampire fan.  The deliberate pace, old-world feel, delicate characterization, subtlety, and relative brevity of the story may be turn-offs to those who expect page after page of gory action and explicit sex from their horror.  Be that as it may, discerning readers will find few indulgences better than LeFanu's \\"Carmilla,\\" a gothic triumph which will endure as long as vampire tales are read.	2004-02-05
US	42697264	R2V6HF3SDOD6C2	156389369X	360956459	JLA (Book 1): New World Order	Books	4	5	6	N	N	DC'S BIG GUNS RE-LOADED	Grant Morrison's \\"New World Order\\" revives the Justice League of America with style, wit, and lots of eye-popping action (the latter courtesy of some outstanding artwork by artist Howard Porter).  When the mysterious Hyperclan, a team of nomadic superhumans who evidently want nothing more nor less than to turn earth into a Utopia, touch down over the White House only DC's greatest superheroes have a chance when they step out of line.  Morrison's script does a lot with limited space, and with a few deft touches turn some of the comics world's most polished icons into flesh-and-blood super *people*.  These are DC's big-leaguers:  Superman, Batman, Green Lantern, Wonder Woman, Flash, Martian Manhunter, and Aquaman, and they are indeed the JLA as it was always meant to be.  Having said that, the Justice Society of America actually came first and by all rights might even be more powerful than the JLA, but it is indeed the JLA that has been DC's standard-bearer since the Silver Age.  And stories like \\"New World Order\\"--adventure, excitement, great interraction between disparate but unified heroes, and a world to save--are why.	2003-12-18
US	42697264	R21JPZOODZ2714	1570720444	85926062	More Kentucky Ghost Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	HAUNTED KENTUCKY	Published in 1996 as a follow-up to &quot;Tragedy at Devil's Hollow and Other Kentucky Ghost Stories,&quot; this volume of macabre delights is perhaps even better than its predecessor, and almost certainly scarier.  There seems to be no end to the supernatural history of Kentucky life, nor to peoples' curiosity about it.  Michael Paul Henson has done Kentuckians and folklorists all across the nation a great service in compiling these dark, engaging tales. Ghosts, goblins, ghouls and witches all come to life inside this book, and once you've read it you may never look at Kentucky in quite the same way.  Highly recommended.	2003-12-11
US	42697264	REZFE7QIEE6AA	1570721602	388084120	Tragedy at Devils Hollow: And Other Kentucky Ghost Stories	Books	5	10	11	N	N	GHOSTS IN KENTUCKY	Michael Paul Henson was a legend among folklorists, and &quot;Tragedy at Devil's Hollow&quot; will ensure him a lasting place in Kentucky's libraries for generations to come.  I originally bought this as a Christmas present for my Grandfather when it was first published in '84, and recently bought a new edition for myself and don't regret a penny.  Henson's preface and introduction set just the right tone, and the stories themselves--all based in fact--are enlightening and entertaining.  Divided into two sections, &quot;Ghost Stories&quot; and &quot;Unexplained Phenomena,&quot; the tales range from the mildly creepy to inspirational or awe-inspiring to downright terrifying.  The title story, &quot;Tragedy at Devil's Hollow,&quot; is the most memorable, but there's not a dud in the whole book.  If you are a Kentucky historian, a student of folklore, or somebody who just loves a good scary story, this book is a must-read.	2003-12-11
US	42697264	R38KG02PWFWB7G	1840373865	683683664	Bombers of the 20th Century: Vital Guide (Vital Guides)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	BOMBS AWAY!	Often overlooked by enthusiasts and media alike in favor of the usually more glamorous fighters and interceptors, bomber and attack aircraft are arguably even more important to the outcome of modern battles.  Jim Winchester's slim 110-page \\"Bombers of the 20th Century\\" finally shines the spotlight on these frequently neglected planes, ranging from the Depression-era Keystone biplane to the feared Nazi Stuka dive bomber of WWII all the way up to the Russian supersonic giant Blackjack and the feared American F-117 \\"stealth fighter\\" and more. Each aircraft is given a full-page entry with two photos, a specs chart, and development and operational narrative.  Recommended to any afficianado of military aviation.	2003-11-23
US	42697264	RJ12RIQLXLNWE	0760308926	244031817	Illustrated Directory of Tanks of the World: From World War I to the Present Day	Books	4	8	8	N	N	THE TITLE SAYS IT ALL	David Miller's &quot;The Illustrated Directory of Tanks of the World&quot; is a compact, easy-to-read, chronological guidebook to the weapon which has dominated land warfare since World War I.  Featured are well over a hundred tanks of all nationalities with three times that many photographs and illustrations, and each tank is succintly described in terms of armament, armor, performance, and deployment history.  All the major designs are here, including:<BR>     *M-4 Sherman, the American workhorse of WWII<BR>     *T-34, the innovative Russian trend-setter<BR>     *The awesome Tiger, the most infamous tank ever<BR>     *The mighty Merkava, Israel's contemporary &quot;war chariot&quot;<BR>     *Sweden's turretless S-tank, a bold but failed experiment<BR>     *England's dwarfish Scorpion, with a variant for every need<BR>     *America's M1 Abrams, which thanks to its dominant performances in the Middle East and its lethal &quot;silver bullet&quot; anti-tank shell now reigns as the world's pre-eminent AFV<BR>     *and dozens of other great and small vehicles from all over the globe and every major armored conflict.<br />Sadly, the book is marred by a number of typos and editorial misques.  These are generally minor but nonetheless jarring, and do detract somewhat from the book's overall authoritativeness. Even so, this is a tremendous value considering the sheer volume of information jam-packed into its 480 pages. Mr. Miller is to be commended for the work which went into such a project, and his book is an easily recommended purchase for any fan of tank design or armored warfare.	2003-11-23
US	42697264	R3H74D1FYJQ91N	1840371773	329154490	Modern Warships (Vital Guide)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	NAVAL BASICS	Though not well-suited to in-depth study of any one particular vessel, Leo Marriott's &quot;The Vital Guide to Modern Warships&quot; is an excellent snaphot of all the weapons deployed by today's navies.  A brief introduction is followed by serperate units on aircraft carriers, submarines, major warships, destroyers &amp; frigates, small warships, amphibious warfare vessels, and logistic support vessels.  Each vessel's entry includes quality photographs and full specification.  Marriott's book is well-edited and includes useful notes on the data tables, a glossary, and an index, all positive characteristics often lacking in general military reference books such as this.  Though probably inferior to the similar &quot;The Illustrated Directory of Warships&quot; by David Miller, &quot;The Vital Guide to Modern Warhips&quot; is still a valuable, fact-filled resource for any student of naval warfare.	2003-11-23
US	42697264	R1UECTLOFBYMPK	0930289854	426173560	Batman: The Cult	Books	4	16	20	N	N	BATMAN & THE CULT	A harrowing 80s tale from the Dark Knight.  When the enigmatic Deacon Blackfire moves into Gotham with an eye on the poor and downcast, the Caped Crusader is but one of many to wish the \\"good\\" Deacon success.  But Frost's motives prove far from altruistic, and when he shows his true colors even Batman cannot escape his sadistic grasp.  Foreshadows some of the basic story elements from \\"Knightfall\\" and \\"No Man's Land,\\" but Jim Starlin's tight, moving script is a far cry from many of the overblown, maze-like plots of today.  The inner conflict Starlin's \\"broken\\" Batman must overcome is handled adroitley, and Berni Wrightson's visual depiction of the Dark Night Detective is quite powerful as well. Jason Todd is still Robin in this story, and Batman can't make it without him. The Deacon himself is the kind of wolf-in-the-fold that we see everyday on TV and in the newspaper--and sometimes even in our pulpits--a false prophet whose own Messiah Complex makes him capable of feats even a Bin Laden might applaud. It's going to take everything Batman has to bring him down, and the over-the-top climax does not disappoint. Out of print, but look for it in your comic shop's back-issue section (it was originally published as a 4-issue mini-series) or order it used from Amazon and add it to your own Batcave today.	2003-11-22
US	42697264	R3H70V34IRM3B	1563891557	219740683	Batman: Ten Nights of the Beast	Books	4	12	13	N	N	BATTLE ROYAL FOR 80S GOTHAM	Batman may have met his match in the KGBeast, a rogue Soviet super-assassin with a 10-man Gotham hitlist and a death-arsenal of every move, counter-move, and weapon there is.  Originally released as a landmark &quot;series within a series&quot; when the Cold War was in its death throes, &quot;Ten Nights of the Beast&quot; is an admittedly retro thriller, but one no less--and perhaps even more--suspenseful for it. Writer Jim Starlin infuses this fast-moving &quot;black game&quot; (the Beast's own words) with some great set pieces and enough daredevil drama to satisfy any Bat-fan, while veteran Batman illustrator Jim Aparo's drawings bring the excellent script to life.  Jason Todd is still Batman's sidekick in this late 80s saga, and he's a good enough Robin that it's hard to remember just why everyone wanted him to bite the bullet so bad.  And even though the KGBeast himself is off-scene most of the time, Starlin's mastery of dialogue and detail infuse the killer with more life than decades of writers have been able to do with some other villains from the Caped Crusader's rogues' gallery. The denouement may not be quite as shocking to today's bloodthirstier comics fans as it was when it first hit the bookstores, but it's still a satisfying and surprising conclusion to one of the most exciting Batman stories ever.  &quot;Ten Nights of the Beast&quot; is currently out of print, but will surely be re-available in a future best-of collection of Batman classics.	2003-11-22
US	42697264	R3F5LJAVIA2LHJ	051700819X	279762084	Panzer Spirit	Books	4	6	7	N	N	SPIRIT OF VENGEANCE	When a long-dormant Nazi tank destroyer comes inexplicably to life and goes on its own bloody blitzkrieg, veteran tanker Jim Fafner may be the only man who can face down the otherworldly intelligence that pilots the haunted Jagdpanther.  And eccentric fantasist Sherri Vail may be more Fafner's foil than a help.  Can they put aside their differences and bring the tank destroyer's rampage to an end, or will a Soviet spy be the one to unlock the Jagdpanther's ghostly secret?<br />An effortless and unpretentious escapist fantasy, Tom Townsend's novel seamlessly welds WWII armor specs, romance, Cold War espionage and mythic mystery into one package. Panzer Spirit is a downhill thrill-ride from beginning to end that will not disappoint.	2003-11-12
US	42697264	R32Q11SOR2N4H3	0802811213	279635094	Christianity and Liberalism	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Christian or Liberal?	J. Gresham Machen has bestowed to posterity one of the finest literary examinations of the Body of Christ's internal struggle for integrity and identity.  &quot;Christianity and Liberalism&quot; brilliantly deciphers the codes and illusions of the latter while illuminating the Gospel Truth that so many in modern Protestantism have confined to the shade.  Doubtless, your typical liberal sees nothing but naivite and obsolescence in Machen's little maserpiece, but more's the pity.  Christianity is in fact an inherently conservative theology, a point which Machen proves over and over with lucidity and a calm but impassioned literary voice.  This is so simply because Christianity is based upon certain obvious facts (in particular the blessed fact of the Resurrection)and the historical creeds that were produced by those facts.  Liberalism, with its insistence upon a religion which owes nothing to fact but much to the vagaries of individual prejudice, can never replace the glory of the real thing.  Even so, modern Protestantism and its so-called leaders seem all-too determined to drag the Gospel down to the lowest common denominator at any cost--and have succeeded to such a point that it's unlikely more than a handful of laymembers from an average congregation could even decipher Machen's prose style, let alone make a reasonable decision about whether or not to agree with his thesis.  And yet Christianity survives, albeit with whatever scars, and the voices of men like Machen continue to sound the warning-trump.  There have always those in the Church who want it to be something other than the Ark of Salvation that it is.  Fortunately, the Church is and has always been bigger than its sins.  The reality of the Gospel still works, and it will do so until the end of the age.	2003-07-27
US	42697264	R1KCCCXMY72K08	0687016703	237441800	Questions and Answers About the United Methodist Church	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	CLEAR, CONCISE, AND INFORMATIVE	Thomas S. McAnally has written a brief, clear-cut booklet that quickly and succintly explains the nuts and bolts of Methodism. Admittedly, it is not a book of deep theological inquiry, but it was never intended to be. Rather, it answers many common questions important either to new Methodists or non-Methodists taking a first look at the Church. For those who need more, a list of suggested books for further research is included. McAnally's book is a great key to unlocking the fruits behind the door of the reader's local United Methodist Church. Recommended.	2003-06-01
US	42697264	R3HWFPRXTRRRXL	055321277X	732800244	Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Bantam Classic)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THE PENULTIMATE GOTHIC MYSTERY	Along with &quot;Dracula&quot; and &quot;Frankenstein,&quot; Robert Louis Stevenson's &quot;Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde&quot; is a part of that great immortal triad of gothic terrors from the 19th century from which a seemingly endless stream of fans, imitators, critics, and dreamers continue to derive unmitigated inspiration.  But despite its classic status, and the fact that virtually everyone in the English-speaking world can instantly recognize the story's title, few have ever actually read Stevenson's little nightmare (the Bantam edition runs to no more than 114 pages, including Jerome Charyn's afterword)or even seen one of its many cinematic incarnations.  Of the aforementioned trio, &quot;Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde&quot; certainly appears the most neglected.  This, despite the fact that it is certainly the most accessible. It is indeed much shorter than either &quot;Dracula&quot; or &quot;Frankenstein,&quot; and anyone with good eyes can read it in a day.  Even the visually challenged amongst us can do so in two.  More importantly, this book is certainly the best written of the three (in)famous works, as Stevenson was by far the most proficient and thoroughly accomplished wordsmith of the authors who gave us these benighted classics.  Moreover, despite its reputation as a horror story, it is in fact more of a Victorian mystery, and for those who do not much care for horror is surely a more palatable selection than either of its brothers.<br />That last point is perhaps part of the problem.  Readers who come to Stevenson's novella expecting to find a giant Hyde rampaging through London like Godzilla in Tokyo, or even doing his best Hannibal Lecter imitation, will be sadly disappointed.  &quot;Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde&quot; is not about blood and thunder, however valuable those elements undeniably are in their proper place.  Rather, it is a story of philosophy, soul-searching, sin and redemption.  It is a subtle, scholarly tale in which much is implied but little shown, and where the goblins which haunt the London fog are only rarely permitted to stumble out to us.  The modern reader, particular one weaned on such drivel as the &quot;Scream&quot; movies or &quot;Buffy the Vampire Slayer,&quot; will have to unlearn much he may have come to believe about effective fantasy in order to savor Stevenson's masterpiece.<br />Beyond that, the story's classic status and innumerable adaptations and parodies in the cinema and pop culture (particularly in the classic Bugs Bunny episode) have vampirized the tale of much of its major element--mystery.  Nobody today opens this book with any doubt as to the true relationship between Henry Jekyll and Edward Hyde.  However bowlderized our modern perceptions of this story have become, we nonetheless all know from the outside where Hyde really comes from.  So the mystery that must have been so opaque, so innovative and exciting to the original audience that had nothing but Stevenson's own story to go by, is denied us.  To some, that makes reading this book little more than a minor chore.<br />And that's a shame, because no matter how familiar this tale of the duality of Man and his eternal struggle between his Dark and Light sides may have become to us, it remains one of the most readable and thoroughly pleasurable books of its era.  Stevenson's prose is precise, and with short, sure strokes he paints a tapestry of the human psyche and its unhallowed depths the like of which no modern slasher film has ever approached.  Granted, the story may have been better served to give Hyde a bit more time on-stage.  Perhaps some of the characters could have used some more fleshing-out.  An epilogue might have served to tie the narrative up more securely...<br />...may, perhaps, might...ultimately those words do not matter, for whatever &quot;Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde&quot; might not be is irrelevant compared to what it is:  the penultimate masterpiece of gothic mystery, and a classic that will endure long after that very genre has itself otherwise disappeared.  Read it for what it is, and enjoy.	2003-05-10
US	42697264	R11P248GKH8D28	0743466322	805775554	Darkness Falls	Books	3	2	3	N	N	GOOD MOVIE TIE-IN	When young Kyle Walsh loses his last baby tooth, you-know-who comes to retrieve it that night.  But this is a very different tooth fairy from the one who came to you and I.  The spirit of an innocent woman murdered only because she was different, this tooth fairy is a malevolent specter hell-bent on avenging herself on the town of Darkness Falls by tormenting her killers' children.  So instead of leaving Kyle a quarter under his pillow, she leaves him his mother's corpse and the murder rap to go with it.<br />Twelve years later, Kyle has grown up into a deeply disturbed man, one addicted to anti-psychotics and who always stays in the light...he's tried to put the past behind him, but an urgent phone call from his old girlfriend brings him back to Darkness Falls to face his fears once and for all...<br />Though Keith R.A. DeCandido's adaptation of the hit thriller doesn't quite match up to the movie in terms of tone, scares, or characterization, it is still a fun, fast book that has its share of high points and definitely makes you want to see the movie.  One of the great things about this story is the protagonist, Kyle Walsh, a fully realized and empathetic man of flesh and blood who has lived his whole life in the shadows and struggles to break free.  Also, \\"Darkness Falls\\" manages to avoid many of the horror genre's typical cliches--though the novelization does succumb to pattern a bit more frequently than the film.  Still, a worthwhile read and a great take-off on a beloved fairy tale.	2003-04-22
US	42697264	R1HRMAARDJFSLF	0812519574	424169720	Hunger	Books	4	2	2	N	N	WHAT DEEP BLUE SEA COULD HAVE BEEN	A squad of genetically engineered mako sharks escape from their holding pen and turn the seas red with their insatiable wrath. Sound familiar?  Yes, it's the same plot as the acceptable &quot;Deep Blue Sea,&quot; but handled years earlier and far more adroitley by novelist William R. Dantz.  Dantz's characters breathe with realism and the electric prose makes his mako's jump off the page at you.  Solid, unheralded page-turner compares favorably to Peter Benchley's &quot;Jaws&quot; and definitely deserves to be back in print.  Marred only slightly by a subtle left-wing subtext.  Exciting, colorful thriller with a heart.  Recommended to fans of undersea thrillers, suspense stories, or anyone who could use a quick but satisfying read.	2003-04-16
US	42697264	R2WXUO3IXWHXAH	1888848359	219913509	The Omega Code: Another Has Risen from the Dead	Books	3	1	1	N	N	DESPITE FLAWS, THE OMEGA CODE STILL ENTERTAINS AND INSPIRES	Paul Crouch's novelization of the sleeper hit film \\"The Omega Code\\" has many of the movie's strengths and weaknesses.  The inherent grandeur and urgency of the plot--the rise of Antichrist in the Earth's last days--coupled with the author's evident empathy for his subject imbues this book with enough power to both entertain and inspire the Evangelical Christians from whose viewpoint the book emerges.  The characters are interesting and highly believable, and the storyline, for all its exhuberance, does bear the ring of truth.  Unfortunately, Mr. Crouch has not mastered the high art of fiction, and his prose frequently rings badly off key.  A careful editing would have helped. Even so, the somewhat spartan style is admittedly much more satisfying than the often overblown writing of more \\"accomplished\\" authors.  Another drawback is that the philosophy behind the story is not fully explained within the book itself, so readers from non-Evangelical backgrounds, and especially non-Christians, may have trouble understanding what's going on.  But all-in-all, thanks to the author's intense conviction and the raw power of Revelation itself, \\"The Omega Code\\" works not only as novel, but as morality tale as well.	2003-04-16
US	42697264	R3KHX4HFYQB6UP	156511227X	540186833	Le Morte D'arthur (Highbridge Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	AUDIO ODYSSEY THRU THE WORLD OF CHIVALRY	Highbridge Classics' &quot;Le Morte d'Arthur,&quot;as read by legendary British thespian Derek Jacobi, is a great adaptation of Thomas Malory's quintessential Arthurian tome.  Newcomers to Malory will find the audio book more accessible than the beautiful but often enigmatic source volume, while long-time Malory devotees will discover fresh nuances in Jacobi's authoritative rendition.  Necessarily, some significant abridgements have been made, but at six audiocassettes this production still captures much of the Arthurian world's enormous scope.  Featured storylines include Arthur's rise to the throne and his claiming of Excalibur, the epic search for the Holy Grail, the doomed love between Lancelot and Guenever, and the tragic final battle between Arthur and his ill-begotten son, Mordred.  Jacobi conveys all the glory of Malory's prose style, while nonetheless cleaning up the diction a bit for modern ears.  Finally, Ruth Morse's concise text introduction provides some keen observations on the big picture of the Arthurian myth.  A magnificent version of Malory that no lover of Camelot should be without.	2003-01-05
US	42697264	R3S3C54N0DRR8C	0517268256	269305902	Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare: A Guide to Understanding and Enjoying the Works of Shakespeare	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	A GREAT SUPPLEMENT TO THE SHAKESPEAREAN CANON	An exhaustive critical overview of Shakespeare's complete works, &quot;Asimov's Guide to Shakespeare&quot; is an invaluable reference tool for anyone interested in great plays like Macbeth, Hamlet, King Lear, Antony and Cleopatra, The Taming of the Shrew, and all the rest of Shakespeare's repertoire.  The author's voice is both concise and precise, and if his unbridled admiration for the Bard comes through in every word he is nontheless willing to criticise when it's called for.  Naturally, many of Asimov's opinions are highly debatable, but such is the case with any scholarly endeavor.  Hopefully, this classic will be back in print soon, for it would be a travesty to let such a literary treasure slip away into oblivion.  Meanwhile, if you can find it, buy it.  Sure to increase any Shakespeare reader's understanding and joy of the great dramatist's works.	2002-12-25
US	42697264	R7CWOQNMG415O	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	4	5	7	N	N	ANARCHY ON THE MOON	Much like Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troopers,&quot; &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress&quot; is not so much the sci-fi adventure yarn the cover copy promotes as a thoughtful, resonant novel of socio-political commentary.  But whereas the former novel is underdeveloped and somewhat disappointing, &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress&quot; is a well-plotted and mostly interesting example of what sci-fi can do in the right hands.<br />Set in 2076, &quot;The Moon is a Harsh Mistress&quot; tells the story of a lunar colony's bid for independence from an exploitative Earth which regards the &quot;Loonies&quot; as celestial fodder.  Slowly but surely the seeds of revolution are sown by a determined clique of conspirators:  Wyoh, the spirited and beautiful heart of the cabal; Mike, the virtually omniscient supercomputer struggling with his own self-awareness; Prof, the conspiracy's mastermind to whom revolution is just another cerebral exercise; and Manuel, a computer repairman and the story's narrator, whose unique gifts and commitment to the cause ultimately make him the revolt's most important member.<br />Heinlein does stack the deck.  The powers-that-be on Earth are not only barely developed caricatures but inept fighters to boot, while the Lunar revolutionaries benefit from some extraordinary strokes of good luck.  Even so, the plot rarely flags and much remains in doubt to the last page.<br />While perhaps not the unqualified masterpiece cited by some of my fellow reviewers, this is a highly notable book of much insight, wit, and literary power.  The case for libertarianism is well-made, and many of Heinlein's political points are dead-on--and even those that aren't help make for a very worthwile read.  Recommended to anyone interested in sci-fi or political theory.	2002-12-23
US	42697264	RDNZM8WJG11N7	0760313431	38767975	Illustrated Directory of Fighters	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A COLORFUL COMPENDIUM OF AVIATION HISTORY	&quot;The Illustrated Directory of Fighters&quot; is just what its title suggests--a photo &amp; fact laden pictorial history of fighter aircraft of every make and caliber from WWI biplanes to contemporary stealth interceptors.  Each aircraft is provided with complete stats for quick reference, and concise but thorough commentary from author Mike Spick fleshes out each plane's profile, complete with user history and head-to-head combat records where available.  An opinionated writer, Spick is not above labeling particularly ineffective weapons &quot;turkeys&quot; and his overall evaluations of most of the planes are dead-on.  All the most famous fighters of history are featured, from the Sopwith Camel and Fokker Dr 1 to the Zero and P-51 mustang up to the modern F-22 Raptor and Su-27, and many lesser-known designs (such as the Italian Fiat CR 42 Falco and Japanese Shiden-Kai) are given their due as well.  Highly informative and surprisingly readable, highlighted by hundreds of exciting photographs, this is a great sourcebook for all military and/or aviation enthusiasts.	2002-11-30
US	42697264	RED0YRR2S5XDC	1587155613	639535744	The Lair of the White Worm	Books	2	5	7	N	Y	THE GRAND MASTER'S FINAL NIGHTMARE	Allegedly written while the author was going insane, \\"The Lair of the White Worm\\" is a fantastic, dream-like narrative whose only saving grace is that there's nothing else like it out there.  The plot, if one can call it that, is a maze of myth and pseudo-gothic imagery that, while never the least bit convincing, is somehow irresistible.  It is to Stoker's credit that he was able to infuse even a total failure with a mesmeric readability--perhaps he had taken lessons from one his own characters (read the book and you'll get it)!  The whole has shades of \\"Dracula,\\" though none of that work's macabre artistry.  Whereas \\"Dracula\\" is a frequently subtle, carefully crafted piece of literature which defies the reader to refute its horrors, \\"Lair of the White Worm\\" requires so many leaps of faith that it's impossible to achieve any suspension of disbelief.  But again, despite its literary deficiciencies, the book inexplicably entertains on a minor level.  Amidst the decaying estates through which his characters stumble, the hackneyed romance, the stupefying telepathic duels, the clouds of protective pigeons and the malevolent kite (!)and the gross-out climax in the midst of a raging storm--between all these things are glimpses into a great writer's mind that, to the true devotee of classic horror, might make this book worth buying.  Caveat Emptor!	2002-09-30
US	42697264	R31B03FZOKR3WR	0815315112	383834211	The Romance of Arthur: An Anthology of Medieval Texts in Translation (Garland Reference Library of the Humanities, Vol. 1267)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	THE ROMANCE OF ARTHUR	James Wilhelm's \\"The Romance of Arthur\\" is an outstanding one-book resource for any student of Arthurian lore. Wilhelm's introductory notes are concise but helpful, and the selection of material is both varied and quite entertaining. There are not only widely familiar and vital core works such as The Knight of the Cart, The Romance of Tristan, Malory's Le Morte Darthur and the Prose Merlin, but more obscure masterpieces such as The Saga of the Mantle, the Rise of Gawain, and the Alliterative Morte Arthure--the last highlighted by some of the most powerful literary battles since Homer and a particularly moving scene of Arthur on his deathbed. An unqualified recommendation for any Arthurian library.	2002-09-14
US	42697264	R10ODEDF57CAY4	0026155001	813411811	Inside the Soviet Army	Books	5	6	8	N	N	THE EVIL EMPIRE'S WAR MACHINE	\\"Inside the Soviet Army\\" is a true classic of its genre, an illuminating reading experience that reveals the true nature of the Soviet military and the men behind it. Though the end of the Cold War rendered many of the writer's specific points obsolete, the chapters on the psychology of war, the design and implementation of strategy and tactics, and military economy are timeless.  While many of the author's opinions are highly debatable to say the least, his sympathies clearly lie with the United States and its allies and his final question, \\"Why don't you resist?\\" is a resonant challenge to every free man to take up the fight against tyranny--wherever it may be--before it's too late.	2002-09-14
US	42697264	R2DG4JH933MV3A	0849938635	365432395	The Oath	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ARE YOU READY TO TAKE THE OATH?	Quite simply, \\"The Oath\\" is one of the finest thrillers I have ever read. Frank Peretti's morality tale of a monstrous evil that haunts a small town and uses those who think they use it is not only a delightful read but food for Christian thought as well. Never preachy, Peretti delivers his message in fluid, descriptive prose that brings the story to magical life. The characters are fully human and easy to identify with, and the relentless horror that hovers over all builds steadily to a devastating climax. Highly recommened to Christians, fans of fantasy or thrillers, and anyone who loves a good morality story.	2002-08-23
US	42697264	R1UMGHBIBWBLWP	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	3	16	21	N	N	STARSHIP TROOPERS	Less a slam-bang action-fest than a gutsy personal analysis of what makes for a realistic and attainable utopia, Heinlein's &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; fails to achieve great heights not because of the author's political agenda (the reason this book is continually labelled controversial), but simply due to poor pacing and a less than fully developed plot.<br />Told from the perspective of Juan Rico, one of the Terran Federation's armored Mobile Infantrymen, Heinlein's novel follows Rico's journey from listless graduate to raw recruit to battle-hardened warrior.  Along the way we are treated to numerous socio-political asides on why the story's right-wing form of government works and why previous ones failed.  Rico's military training is explored in convincing detail, and is in fact the backbone of the book.<br />Therein is some of the problem--Heinlein's never-ending seminars tend to get repetitive toward the end of the book, and Rico himself seems to run out of anything new to say.  Other characters, including Rico's would-be sweetheart, Carmen, are barely developed and are only rarely shown interracting with the narrator.  Moreover, despite its billing as a first-rate adventure yarn, there are only a few battle scenes and what we do get are over quickly and often only vaguely described--except for the opening scene, easily the most exciting part of the book and after which everything else is a slow letdown.<br />None of which makes &quot;Starship Troopers&quot; a bad book.  The military and political evaluations are genuinely interesting FOR AWHILE and the whole is leavened with Heinlein's inimitable quirky sense of humor.  If only Heinlein had developed the plot and its characters a bit more, this would have been a truly fine novel.  As it is, it's still worth a look as long as you know what to expect:  this is a political commentary, not sci-fi excitement.  At the very least, it's better than the movie.	2002-08-22
US	42697264	R2NI3OX86WS88L	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	5	88	92	N	Y	THE VOICE OF HITLER'S INNER CIRCLE	This is probably the most famous of all WWII memoirs, and in many ways this is perfectly justified.  Albert Speer, Hitler's architect and Minister of Armaments, wrote this book during his 20-year prison term following the Nuremburg trials.  Speer's reflections on his own absorbtion into the Nazi regime and the unfolding of the greatest war in history reveal the men who ruled Nazi Germany with general sincerity and enlightening insight.  Goering, Goebbles, Himmler, Bormann, and even Eva Braun are each highlighted by Speer's keen evaluations, and for the most part found wanting.  Hitler himself emerges from Speer's portrait as a man whose megalomania was always clear to anyone who cared to notice, but whose sheer charisma and force of will swept the German people inexorably into the inferno.  Speer takes much of the blame for Germany's war effort, and admits that he and his cohorts, even if personally ignorant of Hitler's concentration camps, were nonetheless accomplices in crime.  The book does demand some historical awareness on the reader's part, as Speer focuses mainly on the rather closed-in, often literally subterranean world of the Nazi leadership, so that references to important military events often come with little or no elaboration--Speer apparently assumed his readers would already be well acquainted with the historical record, and this is required for a full appreciation of his text.  Though undoubtedly subjective, Speer's memoirs remain the most powerful and educational work on the inner workings of Nazism ever published.  Highly recommended to all students of military/political history.	2002-08-13
US	42697264	R20KY0E23ATVMJ	0152017666	900270918	The Weirdstone of Brisingamen: A Tale of Alderley	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	THE WEIRDSTONE OF BRISINGAMEN	While temporarily staying with their Mother's old nurse in Wales, young Susan and Colin learn the Legend of Alderley, a tale of magic and mystery.  Naturally, it's just a good story at first, a part of the fay countryside's queer charm.  But when a strange woman some call a witch tries to lure them into her car and unearthly things come crawling up out of the Devil's Grave, the children realize the legends are true, and that there's far more to Susan's prized family heirloom than anyone ever guessed.<br />A true classic of its kind, \\"The Weirdstone of Brisingamen\\" is a tale of fantastic wonders and terrors lurking right under our unsuspecting noses.  Alan Garner's prose style is at once straightforward and mysterious, evoking just the right touches of color and mood.  Though ostensibly a children's book, this is a novel that has repeatedly demonstrated its literary worth to fantasy lovers of all ages.  Peopled by wizards black and white, gallant dwarfs, sleeping knights, loathsome eyeless hounds and sniveling goblins, as well as the very ordinary but brave young protagonists, \\"The Weirdstone\\" is a treasure of enchantment and suspense that will delight fantasy readers for generations to come.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-25
US	42697264	R5OD7NZY8IT3G	0812511891	591811363	Bring on the Night	Books	4	2	3	N	N	BRING ON THE NIGHT	\\"Bring On the Night\\" is a scary, fun read of a Chicago haunted by a pair of mysterious predators: one, a madman with a sickle and a tortured past; the other, a bloodthirsty vampire. In the end, it's up to an unconventional cop and a beautiful psychic to bring an end to the vampire's reign of terror. Written in an energetic, friendly style, \\"Bring on the Night\\" mixes hard-boiled attitude with monster madness to create one of the best vampire novels since \\"'Salem's Lot.\\"	2002-07-11
US	42697264	R3JJTT97TVVH0L	1928999166	672857396	Exiled from Camelot	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	EXILED FROM CAMELOT	Cherith Baldry's \\"Exiled From Camelot\\" is a novel of remarkable characterization and insight, a fresh new look at King Arthur's seneschal and foster brother Sir Kay and a breathtaking odyssey of personal redemption.  When Loholt, King Arthur's illegitimate son, arrives at Camelot and quickly worms his way into the Court's favor, only the crude but honorable Kay remains suspicious. And when Loholt is killed, Kay finds himself stripped of title and honor and summarily exiled by his own brother on pain of death. A far-reaching plot unfolds deftly in Baldry's hands, a tale of magic, good and evil, beautiful ladies and despicable villains, highlighted by brilliant and innovative depictions of familiar heroes like Sir Gareth and Sir Gawaine (the latter should perhaps be billed as Kay's co-star in this wonderful saga) and of course Kay himself, who, as in Phyllis A. Karr's classic \\"The Idylls of the Queen,\\" proves to be far more gallant and resourceful than his uncouth reputation would suggest.  Masterfully written, featuring exciting battles, convincing dialogue, and plenty of mystery, \\"Exiled From Camelot\\" is a perfect companion piece to Karr's aforementioned novel, and one which should be a valuable component to the Arthurian canon for many years to come.	2002-07-01
US	42697264	R3TANNIO7219SD	1587150123	864483012	The Idylls of the Queen: A Tale of Queen Guenevere	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	THE IDYLLS OF THE QUEEN	Phyllis Ann Karr has done all Arthurian fans a big favor by writing this book.  \\"The Idylls of the Queen\\" is basically a murder mystery set in Camelot, with all the familiar knights and ladies as suspects when Sir Patrise is inexplicably murdered at a small dinner hosted by Queen Guenevere.  Sir Mador accuses the Queen of the murder, and a race against time ensues to discover the truth. The usual knightly quest becomes a hunt for the killer--whoever that may be.  Along the way Karr treats us to some very unique interpretations of the Arthurian cast, including Sir Gareth, Sir Bors, Sir Gawaine (more like the title character of \\"Sir Gawaine and the Green Knight\\") Morgan le Fay, and Sir Lancelot himself.  Told in the first person by Sir Kay, King Arthur's foster brother and seneschal, usually noted by other writers solely for his comedic boorishness or ignored entirely, the novel clearly demonstrates that there is a lot more to Kay than he's usually given credit for--as was the case in the earliest Arthurain legends, where the sarcastic boor of later years is replaced by a loyal, courtly knight.  Karr's version of Kay is still a fountainhead of caustic wit, but even so he's likeable and clearly indispensible to the well-being of Camelot.<br />A fast, suspenseful novel that should stand up to multiple readings, \\"The Idylls of the Queen\\" is an ingenious work that should please all fans of Arthurian literature.	2002-07-01
US	42697264	R3Q7NZDUP29MQI	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	3	4	N	N	TIMELINE	A group of historians bite off more than they can chew when they agree to help a little-known but powerful corporation restore a medieval battle site in France.  Some bizarre occurrences lead to the realization that the corporation's megalomanical CEO is secretly building an economic monopoly out of the past.  The promise of quantum physics has been realized, and time travel is now a dream come true...<br />...or a nightmare.  When Professor Edward Johnston gets stranded in the midst of bloodthirsty armies battling over the site he and his comrades were restoring, only a team of dedicated volunteers can save him.  But what was supposed to be a \\"simple\\" search and rescue goes terribly awry, and the Professor's friends--not soldiers, not heroes, just historians--must become heroes if they or Johnston are to escape the deadly medieval arena in which they are trapped.<br />Endlessly entertaining and amazingly researched, \\"Timeline\\" is a spellbinding story of knights, bandits, castles and damsels in distress, a world of honor and treachery, chivalry and death, a battleground for the future and the past.  Crichton's storytelling is nearly flawless, and the book, though long, flies along at breakneck pace.  The characters--the good, the bad, and the ugly (and there are many of each)--are all believably developed and highly empathetic. The author even puts a neat spin on the legend of the Green Knight. Though not classic literature, \\"Timeline\\" is a great action novel and possibly the best time-travel opus ever.  \\"Timeline\\" is popular fiction at its apex.	2002-06-26
US	42697264	R1411L97MPG03A	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	GRAND SATIRE OF FOIBLES OLD AND NEW	\\"A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court\\" is one of those rarest literary treasures:  a comedy that, for all it's hilarity, actually has both a heart and a brain.  Not just a set of cheap laughs, as most comedy of any sort is, Mark Twain's classic novel enlightens as it entertains, throwing an unflinching spotlight on the darker elements of human nature both in the Utopian (to our eyes) Camelot and of modern capitalism and the American Dream.<br />The plot is a familiar one in our age of sci-fi and fantasy, though it was innovative when Twain conceived it:  Hank Morgan, an enterprising 19th-century engineer, is knocked unconscious and comes to in King Arthur's fabled Camelot.  Bewildered but determined to make the best of the situation, Morgan uses his knowledge of history and mechanical skills to convince everyone he is a super-magician greater than even Merlin.  Once ensconced as the King's right-hand man, Morgan sets about reforming the country into a republic, a sort of prototype America.  Most of the book follows Morgan through a series of haphazard adventures which Twain uses to illuminate the great but often forgotten evils of the Dark Ages, including the abuses of the Catholic Church, the ignorant and useless ruling body that inevitably arises from a monarchy, and the pitiful working conditions of the medieval peasant or slave.<br />Nor is Twain's critical eye trained only on the far-flung past.  Though Morgan is essentially a sympathetic figure, he struggles to find anything the least bit admirable about the knights and nobles he must live with, and considers the chivalric code merely fit for derision.  Meanwhile, Morgan's own capitalist code is in full effect, and he takes advantage of every opportunity to cash in his advanced education for the big bucks.<br />Colorful and sublimely written, Twain's time-travel masterpiece is both a magical fantasy and a stinging dystopian satire.  Don't be fooled by the several movie versions of this story, some of which are great fun in their own right.  Yes, the novel is funny, often riotously so, but the humorous skin hides a deadly earnestness beneath, and the finale is far less optimistic than one who has first seen the film versions will doubtless expect.  A deservedly immortal literary gem.ich are great fun in their own right.  Yes, the novel is funny, often riotously so, but the humorous skin hides a deadly earnestness beneath, and the finale is far less optimistic than one who has first seen the film versions will doubtless expect.  A deservedly immortal literary gem.	2002-06-17
US	42697264	RLUZE8WP6ROU7	0224009036	495070003	Frankenstein Unbound	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	FRANKENSTEIN UNBOUND	In the 21st century, man's use of nuclear weapons has disrupted the natural order of the universe.  Space and time have begun to fluctuate, and \\"timeslips\\" can suddenly transport whole regions into the future or past.  Caught in one of these displacements is Joe Bodenland, our narrator, who suddenly finds himself (along with his nuclear-powered car and watch) stranded in the day of Mary Shelley, Lord Byron, and yes, Victor Frankenstin.  Enthralled by the chance to meet the \\"historical\\" Frankenstein (a term which, due to the timeslips, may no longer be relevant), Bodenland launches an investigation into the scientist's life that leads to a fateful, existential cat & mouse game with Frankenstein's legendary Monster...and his mate. Involving subplots include Bodenland's brief but intense love with Mary Shelley and philosophical debates with Percy Shelley, Byron, and of course the Modern Prometheus himself, the mad Frankenstein.  An intoxicating mix of history, suspense, and glorious sci-fi, Frankenstein Unbound is a fantastic morality tale and an excellent corollary to the Frankenstein legend.	2002-06-12
US	42697264	R2Q2G9PPR9E30X	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	WHO ARE WE?	Yevgeny Zamyatin's We, written before Dystopian novels became widely popular, is a fascinating, thoughtful read that those interested in speculative sci-fi will probably devour in a day or two.  The author creates a world of the far future where most of humanity has supposedly been wiped out in a Two Hundred Years War.  The survivors, organized under the Benefactor's One State, live in a sterile, scientifically regimented world where everyone lives in a glass house and even dreams have been eliminated.  Zamyatin's narrator, designer of the space ship Integral, the magic bullet by which the One State will export this harmonious way of life to other planets, begins the book (actually the character's journal, meant to be an educational tool for the social primitives on other worlds) a staunch advocate of the One State and its system of law.  But when he meets a mysterious woman whose sheer unconventionality makes him love her, the narrator finds himself drawn ever deeper into doubt, rebellion, and perhaps madness.  A book of questions, We is sometimes overly ambiguous and it's rather unclear what the author's ultimate message is.  Though Zamyatin plainly marks totalitarianism as the greatest social evil, he alternates other philosophies in such a way that no truly desireable remedy ever manifests itself.  The ending is particularly enigmatic, leaving the reader doubting not only the narrator's future but many of his previous experiences.   Nontheless, We is a worthwhile literary achievement, and deserving of any self-respecting non-conformist's perusal.	2002-06-08
US	42697264	R211GHVFAR6TDP	0553246348	689018203	Spock Must Die! (Star Trek)	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	SPOCK MUST DIE!	Spock Must Die! was the first original Star Trek novel, and in fact is one of the best.  When the Klingons unexpectedly invade Federation space, the Enterprise heads to Organia to see why the all-powerfufl Organians haven't intervened.  A transporter experiment en route backfires horribly, creating a duplicate of Mr. Spock.  Evidence surfaces that one of the Spocks is a Klingon agent--but which one?<br />Written by renowned sci-fi author James Blish, who adapted most of the original TV series into short stories, Spock Must Die! is a remarkably fast and easy read, despite the author's regrettable tendency to let his characters lapse into opaque techspeak at every opportunity.  Blish understood the Star Trek characters thoroughly though, and this comes through in his prose, particularly his portrayals of Kirk and Spock.  While Spock Must Die! certainly doesn't mesh with established Trek continuity since its original publication date, the novel remains a fun, thrilling tale, escpecially for those of us who still wax nostalgic about classic Trek.	2002-06-05
US	42697264	R1X575BG1K079B	034543191X	303161599	The King of Elfland's Daughter (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	THE KING OF ELFLAND'S DAUGHTER	Lord Dunsany's beautiful prose poem The King of Elfland's Daughter is one of the seminal novels of fantasy literature and offers everything such a book should.  One the hand, it is a dream offering escape from sordid reality; on the other, a mirror in whose misty depths we find what matters most in our lives reflected back at us.  Dunsany's writing is classy and very Old World, so devotees of modern cyclical fantasy may not find what they're looking for here.  But those with broader tastes or who are simply looking for something new will find this book a refreshing getaway Beyond the Fields We Know.  Incorporating many archtypical motifs--the Prince in search of his elfin love; the magic sword; the enigma of magic; and the Quest theme--The King of Elfland's Daughter is a genuine masterpiece that deserves a wider contemporary following.  The only part of the book that left this reviewer with reservations is the finale--I'm just not sure it works.  Even so, this is a novel for the ages.	2002-06-04
US	42697264	RZ6TYBPJQR4O4	0060652950	94824058	The Great Divorce	Books	5	56	61	N	N	THE GREAT DIVORCE	As Lewis explains in his preface, The Great Divorce is a response to the attitude of William Blake, among others, that someday there will be an ideal union of the secular and divine, or Heaven and Hell.  Unable to see how this could ever be, Lewis wrote The Great Divorce to explore the issue further.  The result is a religous allegory of the highest caliber and impeccable, nearly frightening, insight.<br />As with all allegories, The Great Divorce relies on symbolism to make its point.  Lewis admits his book is not to be taken literally as a tour guide of either Heaven or Hell, but merely as an artistic expression of his ideas.  And the plot device works well--Lewis's intensely brilliant yet readily accessible and familiar writing style makes it easy to imagine oneself in the narrator's shoes on the uneasy bus ride out of Hell, hunkering under the great mountains of Glory, or even talking uncertainly with Ghosts or Spirits (oh yes, there is a big difference!).  <br />The Great Divorce is a fine read for anyone, believer or unbeliever.  The former will find many challenges and assurances; the latter will discover new insights into the Christian faith not readily available from other sources.  Above all, The Great Divorce is a Dante-esque tour of not only the Worlds Beyond, but just as importantly one of the often unexplored metaphysical World within us all.	2002-05-28
US	42697264	R79L70DT65JJ0	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	5	37	39	N	Y	DEVILISHLY CLEVER!	Leave it to C.S. Lewis to do the undoable--write an epistolary novel from Hell's vantage that delights as much as it educates, and illuminates even as it sends cold chills up your spine.  But Lewis was a genius, and The Screwtape Letters is literary proof.<br />Written as a series of letters from old devil Screwtape to his apprentice nephew, Wormwood, Lewis's novel tells the story of Wormwood's increasingly desperate efforts to ensnare the soul of a young Englishman during World War I.  Through this correspondence we follow Wormwood's \\"patient\\" through conversion, to doubt, love and his ultimate fate.  The novel's suspense comes from the question of whether or not the young man will actually escape becoming a midnight snack for Wormwood, and besides being a genuinely fun read the novel is packed with ingenious observations about innumerable human fallacies:  from lust to \\"falling in love,\\" to cowardice to fanatic patriotism, piety to self-righteousness.  One of Lewis's great literary gifts was his ability to pinpoint the subtle flaws in human nature that most of us probably don't think twice about but which we may end up regretting for all eternity.  His eye for the touch of evil in the most seemingly innocuous areas of life lets Lewis hit all the major spiritual pressure points with amazing--and sometimes painful--accuracy.<br />Deliciously funny as only a grand parody can be, yet likewise terrifying in its implications, The Screwtape Letters is a must-read for everyone who ever even thought about religion.  A magical novel of wisdom, encouragement, and dire warning, The Screwtape Letters has my wholehearted recommendation.	2002-05-28
US	42697264	RZBE0CSIW4T6G	0345320239	896078468	Splinter of the Mind's Eye (Star Wars)	Books	5	65	71	N	N	THE STAR WARS THAT COULD HAVE BEEN	The first novel to take the adventures of Luke Skywalker beyond what we now call Episode IV:  A New Hope, &quot;Splinter of the Mind's Eye&quot; drops Luke and Leia onto a primitive jungle planet where the stranded duo must contend with bizarre alien tribesmen, ravenous monsters, labrynthine caves, and roving bands of Imperial stormtroopers--all the while coming ever closer to the romance early Star Wars fans thought was written in the stars.  While fleeing the Empire's soldiers, Luke and Leia learn from a Force-sensitive old woman that the backwater planet they've chanced on is home to a mythical crystal that can give its wielder heretofore unimagined power over the Force itself.  But Luke and Leia aren't the only ones in on the revelation:  the promise of even greater power lures Darth Vader himself, setting up a spell-binding climax including a lightsaber duel that compares favorably with any the films have offered thus far.  Naturally, no novel written in '78 can jive with the Star Wars continuity as the movies have developed it since then, but that's not the author's fault.  Alan Dean Foster has been of the world's best sci-fi writers for years, and &quot;Splinter of the Mind's Eye&quot; is first class storytelling.  Contitnuity nothwithstanding, this is an outstanding and thoroughly entertaining stand-alone novel.  What else matters?	2002-05-10
US	42697264	R1QBKFSSKISRR3	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	A FULFILLING READING EXPERIENCE	I read this book after a personal relationship of my own ended badly, and I quickly began wishing I had read it before.  While much of what Mr. Harris says is nothing Christians haven't heard before, the author does a fine job of putting every lesson about intimacy and romance you've ever heard together piece by piece until what has always remained a very confusing puzzle becomes crystal clear.  By citing scripture and the personal experiences of both himself and people he knows, Harris illuminates many common problems Christians encounter in their relationships and gives solid guidelines on how to conquer them.  Admitting some ambiguity will always exist in a relationship, Harris refuses to demand his readers follow every line of his advice literally.  Personally, for example, I see nothing wrong with kissing your girlfriend, but this is one of those matters Harris leaves for each reader to decide about for themselves.  Another questionable area is how much you should let others be involved in your courtship:  is it really good to let your church peers know everything you and your girlfriend/boyfriend do?  Certainly, however, the general values Harris addresses can be adapted to any romance--and probably should be.  Another nice touch is where Harris addresses the question of &quot;Is 'courting' holier than 'dating,&quot; pointing out that some of his critics may be reading more into the terms he uses than he ever intended.  Overall, a sensitive worthwhile read for any Christian who wants to find God's will in romance for them.	2002-05-10
US	42697264	R15CN7Y24QZCP	0520011767	205742816	The Poem of the Cid (Cal 10)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	IMMORTAL TALE OF CHIVALRY AND HEROISM	The Poem of the Cid (here translated by Lesley Byrd Simpson) is required reading for anyone interested in tales of high adventure, honor, and chivalry, for these things are the backgone of one of literature's greatest sagas:  the tale of Ruy Diaz of Bivar,the Cid, and Spain's greatest knight.<br />Unfairly exiled from his King's country, the Cid throws himself into Moorish Spain to battle, plunder, and rebuild his name.  Eventually the Cid's heroism explodes the King's enmity, and he returns home in glory.  But the Cid errs in marrying his unsuspecting daughters to the craven Princes of Carrion, unleashing such suffering and dishonor on the girls that only a colorful trial by combat can satisfy the Cid's lust for revenge and heal his family's wounded honor.<br />Rich in medieval tapestry and flavor and a more realistic depiction of the &quot;chivalric code&quot; than one finds in parallel works (the Cid, for all his honor, is not above deceiving his enemies--or some of his friends!), The Poem of the Cid is highly recommended to anyone born with the spirit of a knight in their heart.	2002-05-10
US	42697264	R2P6G8H0YBY2GY	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	COMIC BOOK ARMAGEDDON!	One of the most ballyhooed story arcs in comics history, CRISIS ON INFINITE EARTHS divides fans to this day, some 20 years after its initial publication.  If nothing else, CRISIS is one of the few stories in comics history to live up to its billing:  it really DID change everything in the DC universe and nothing has been the same since.  Whether that is good or bad...ah, that's the rub, isn't it?<br /><br />As a pure story, CRISIS is incredibly epic in scope and packed with high drama and multiple climaxes.  Anti-matter is eating up the DC multiverse, destroying entire universes (and their sometimes long-standing characters)without mercy. Ultimately the Monitor's evil doppleganger, the Anti-Monitor, is revealed as the ultimate menace to all life, and virtually every surviving hero and villain in DC's expansive continuity is swept up in this titanic struggle between good and evil, life and death.<br /><br />Originally spanning twelve issues of varying length, CRISIS is scripted with admirable dexterity by Marv Wolfman, who does a yeoman's job and then some handling the scores of heroes and villains involved in his sweeping tale.  You get everyone from the usual headliners like Batman and Superman and Green Lantern to WWII heroes like the indomitable Sgt. Rock and Charlton crossovers like Captain Atom and underused Golden Age icons such as the terrible Spectre and the World's Mightiest Mortal himself, Captain Marvel.  Some characters come off better in CRISIS than they had for years previously--notably Supergirl, who famously (and unfortunately) fights her last fight in perhaps the arc's most unforgettable moment (though Barry Allen's ultimate, fatal race against destiny itself is right up there). Characterization is surprisingly good considering the size of the overall cast and the limited space available to individuals.  Despite its great length, CRISIS never slows down and holds interest chapter after chapter til the bittersweet end. And no appraisal of CRISIS would be complete without a tip of the hat to some truly awesome artwork by industry stalwart George Perez.  Perez captures the essence of each myriad hero and villain flawlessly, and the current edition of the series features an absolutely gorgeous wrap-around cover by Mr. Perez that guarrantees CRISIS will be one of the more prominently displayed graphic novels in your collection.<br /><br />All that's the good.  Unfortunately, there's a lot of bad, too.<br /><br />On a simple dramatic level, CRISIS has several flaws.  The cast of virtually every character in the DC comics canon may be altogether too huge; a smaller cast (such as in Marvel's SECRET WARS) would have allowed for perhaps more detailed characterization and hightened drama.  Because of its sheer size, the eventual battle on multiple earths between literally ALL of DC's heroes and villains lacks punch--a series of scattershot fight scenes with no beginning or end to create a context of excitement.  And while Mr. Wolfman makes the Anti-Monitor deliciously evil, might it not have been better to utilize an existing villain from DC's impressive canon, perhaps Darkseid or Trigon?  Much like Doomsday from the Death of Superman story a few years ago, the Anti-Monitor sometimes comes across as more of a gimmick than a character.<br /><br />But ultimately the negatives of CRISIS are not about such trivialities--they're about the much wider issue of whether or not CRISIS should have even been written.<br /><br />DC wanted a more streamlined continuity with a single mainline universe--like Marvel's.  DC also wanted to recreate its stable of heroes and villains into what was considered a more \\"mature\\" and \\"realistic\\" format--as was generally perceived to be the case at Marvel.  The solution writer Wolfman hit on was to essentially wipe out over four decades of characters and story-arcs, so that DC could start over from nearly scratch and recreate itself in Marvel's image.<br /><br />Fan reaction at the time was highlymixed, and has remained so to this day.  On the one hand there's no question CRISIS was the impetus for a new wave of creativity at DC, with several bold new storylines taking off almost immediately in the maxi-series' wake.  But while there were short-term benefits, the long run has perhaps not been what DC was hoping for.  While DC's heroes were generally made-over in more \\"Marvelesque\\" fashion, the result was often disappointing.  Take Superman, for instance.  The original superhero was de-powered and much of his Kryptonian heritage written out his backstory; Superboy ceased to exist, as did Supergirl and Krypto.  No bottled city of Kandor, either.  And those of us who were eagerly looking forward to the ultimate showdown between Superman and the evil Lex Luthor armed with an awesome warsuit and a rejuvenated hatred for his archenemy...well, we'll wait forever, now.  That Luthor no longer exists, either, replaced by a corrupt businessman named Luthor whose hatred for Superman stems from little more than being reduced to number two status in Metropolis with Superman's arrival there.  The recreated Brainiac, revamped not long before CRISIS himself, makes his final appearance in the series as well.  And as for the \\"World's Finest,\\" forget it.  Now Superman and Batman spend as much time at each other's throats as they do fighting side-by-side.  This was supposed to be progress.  I call it all a big, big mistake.<br /><br />And there were others.  The most unfortunate victims of CRISIS proved to be not the heroes who were killed in action--but the ones who survived to be re-written to the core.  Not just Superman, but Batman & Robin (Jason Todd was turned into a delinquent so unlikeable the fans voted him killed off, if you remember), the Marvel Family, the Spectre...and let's not even talk about Hal Jordan.<br /><br />CRISIS is also blamed by many for ushering in the more violent, darker tone that seems to dominate comics as a whole now.  True, CRISIS did pave the way for that, but the trend had already started.  Titles such as SWAMP THING and THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS were taking comics to more supposedly \\"adult\\" places already, and it's unlikely CRISIS really did more than accelerate the process a little.  The result, ten years later, would have been the same.<br /><br />But did CRISIS actually achieve any of its central objectives?  Not really.  The DC universe continues to struggle with its various lines of continuity, despite multiple attempts to streamline and simplify it to everyone's satisfaction and understanding.  And Marvel has largely continued to dominate DC in terms of industry sales (with some notable exceptions)and respect among modern fans, who still somehow find DC's characters too cartoonish, too good to be true.  Indeed, much of CRISIS has been flatly ignored by many writers to come after the series--probably wisely.  Many of those writers have created great stories--you'll find I've favorably reviewed many of them--but the greater context in which those stories exist just isn't the same.<br /><br />Ultimately, then, is CRISIS worth your money?  For all that's bad in it, and for all that it wrought, I'm glad I own a copy.  It is a true milestone, for good or ill, and as a story it is actually very good, even if its long-term ramifications aren't.  The script is fun and melodramatic--if sometimes heartbreaking--the way comics are for the most part supposed to be, and Perez's art is beautiful work.  My final rating for CRISIS is a compromise--five stars for the actual content, about two for its ramifications, for a final grade of three stars.  Take it for what its worth, but that's the way I see the CRISIS--swan song of the Silver Age of comics.e time was highly mixed, and has remained so to this day.  On the one hand there's no question CRISIS was the impetus for a new wave of creativity at DC, with several bold new storylines taking off almost immediately in the maxi-series' wake.  But while there were short-term benefits, the long run has perhaps not been what DC was hoping for.  While DC's heroes were generally made-over in more \\"Marvelesque\\" fashion, the result was often disappointing.  Take Superman, for instance.  The original superhero was de-powered and much of his Kryptonian heritage written out his backstory; Superboy ceased to exist, as did Supergirl and Krypto.  No bottled city of Kandor, either.  And those of us who were eagerly looking forward to the ultimate showdown between Superman and the evil Lex Luthor armed with an awesome warsuit and a rejuvenated hatred for his archenemy...well, we'll wait forever, now.  That Luthor no longer exists, either, replaced by a corrupt businessman named Luthor whose hatred for Superman stems from little more than being reduced to number two status in Metropolis with Superman's arrival there.  The recreated Brainiac, revamped not long before CRISIS himself, makes his final appearance in the series as well.  And as for the \\"World's Finest,\\" forget it.  Now Superman and Batman spend as much time at each other's throats as they do fighting side-by-side.  This was supposed to be progress.  I call it all a big, big mistake. <br /> <br />And there were others.  The most unfortunate victims of CRISIS proved to be not the heroes who were killed in action--but the ones who survived to be re-written to the core.  Not just Superman, but Batman & Robin (Jason Todd was turned into a delinquent so unlikeable the fans voted him killed off, if you remember), the Marvel Family, the Spectre...and let's not even talk about Hal Jordan. <br /> <br />CRISIS is also blamed by many for ushering in the more violent, darker tone that seems to dominate comics as a whole now.  True,CRISIS did pave the way for that, but the trend had already started.  Titles such as SWAMP THING and THE DARK KNIGHT RETURNS were taking comics to more supposedly \\"adult\\" places already, and it's unlikely CRISIS really did more than accelerate the process a little.  The result, ten years later, would have been the same. <br /> <br />But did CRISIS actually achieve any of its central objectives?  Not really.  The DC universe continues to struggle with its various lines of continuity, despite multiple attempts to streamline and simplify it to everyone's satisfaction and understanding.  And Marvel has largely continued to dominate DC in terms of industry sales (with some notable exceptions)and respect among modern fans, who still somehow find DC's characters too cartoonish, too good to be true.  Indeed, much of CRISIS has been flatly ignored by many writers to come after the series--probably wisely.  Many of those writers have created great stories--you'll find I've favorably reviewed many of them--but the greater context in which those stories exist just isn't the same.   <br /> <br />Ultimately, then, is CRISIS worth your money?  For all that's bad in it, and for all that it wrought, I'm glad I own a copy.  It is a true milestone, for good or ill, and as a story it is actually very good, even if its long-term ramifications aren't.  The script is fun and melodramatic--if sometimes heartbreaking--the way comics are for the most part supposed to be, and Perez's art is beautiful work.  My final rating for CRISIS is a compromise--five stars for the actual content, about two for its ramifications, for a final grade of three stars.  Take it for what its worth, but that's the way I see the CRISIS--swan song of the Silver Age of comics.	2002-01-27
US	42697264	R25C8X3AANAFYR	0760305242	561151870	The Tiger Tank	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A GOOD LOOK AT THE TIGER I	The Tiger is surely the most famous tank ever produced to this date, and Roger Ford has done a yeoman's job of outlining all the attributes that made the Tiger such a fearsome weapon while also hitting the behemoth's weak points.  Ford's book features many excellent b/w photographs of generally high quality, showing the tiger in production, battle, and in several instances, destruction.  There are several schematics and even a couple pages devoted entirely to the Tiger's camoflauge schemes, and Ford goes over the tank's technical data in considerable detail, giving the reader a good idea of what the Tiger's designers went through.  The book's major weakness is an almost total lack of tactical history, as Ford chooses to focus instead on the Tiger's overall strategic role in the grand scheme of WW2.  More detailed accounts of tank-vs.-tank encounters or even interviews with surviving participants would have made this a complete text.  As it is, &quot;The Tiger Tank&quot; is still a quality book, and one I definitely recommend to any armored warfare enthusiast.	2001-12-31
US	42697264	R1BB2ZQNWBH7I1	1563890534	664686034	Shazam!, The - Archives, Volume 1 (Archive Editions)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	COMIC ART AS IT SHOULD BE	One of the most popular Golden Age superheroes, the original Captain Marvel has had a hard time carving out a proper niche for himself in the modern era.  Though DC has tried to re-establish Cap several times, the results have often been disappointing--partly because of questionable handling by DC itself and also in part because public tastes aren't what they used to be.  In an age of anti-heroes and exploitativeness that surpasses anything &quot;Seduction of the Innocent&quot; could have foreseen, a hero as noble as Captain Marvel seems somewhat out of place--much like Superman himself.<br />But thanks to DC's &quot;Shazam Archives,&quot; modern readers at least have a chance to see just why Cap was such a Golden Age icon.  This is an outstanding hardcover book, featuring beautifully reproduced art by C.C. Beck and Pete Costanza on high-quality paper.  Though written in the 40s, Bill Parker's clever, innovative scripts still hold up well. The price is a bit steep, but there's nothing quite like the classics from the Golden Age.<br />The stories themselves do show their age--there's nothing remotely like them anymore.  Even so, they're top-notch entertainment, featuring lots of action, daring feats of superheroism, last-minute escapes, and plenty of beautiful women to rescue.  Though written before America entered World War II, these stories clearly reflect a nation fearful of the world around it, as Cap faces down both barbaric &quot;Gnatzis&quot; and insidious fifth-columnists.  Cap's arch-nemesis, the evil Dr. Sivana, is introduced in Cap's very first adventure and makes several return appearances, along with his alluring daughter, Beautia, whom Sivana dreams of seeing crowned &quot;Empress of the World.&quot;  Cap's origin story is presented in its original form, (he was originally to be dubbed &quot;Captain Thunder&quot;)and stands out as among the most unique and captivating opening chapters in comic book history.  What boy could resist the promise of becomingthe World's Mightiest Mortal just by saying the magic word?  <br />None of the stories in this book are real clunkers, though one or two are only fair (such as &quot;Hurray for Captain Marvel&quot;).  Every reader will find his or her own favorite, but to me &quot;Make Way for Captain Marvel,&quot; &quot;Captain Marvel Battles the Winged Death,&quot; and &quot;Captain Marvel Boomerangs the Torpedo&quot; are the best of the best.  <br />Some modern readers may find these tales naive and overly cartoonish.  Hopefully, however, mature readers will agree with me that this is comic fantasy as its gilded peak.	2001-12-27
US	42697264	R1JLETQA2IMEP4	0140445323	440434862	The Song of Roland (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	DEATH BEFORE DISHONOR	The time:   778 A.D.<BR>The place:  Roncesvalles, Spain<BR>Charlemagne's rearguard, commanded by his nephew, the Count Roland, is attacked from all sides by a pagan horde without number.  A single note from Oliphant, Roland's horn, will bring Charlemagne's army to the rearguard's rescue.  But Roland is a true knight, and will not suffer himself to be rescued.  He puts Oliphant away and draws forth the gleaming blade Durendal, and with his own sword-arm leads his soldiers into mortal combat against a foe he cannot hope to conquer.  So begins the greatest battle royal in literary history. Roland and his comrades-at-arms fight bravely, enduring blows that would dispatch lesser men while giving their heathen enemies even greater wounds.  Swords flail, lances strike, armor splinters, and good and evil play our their eternal game of life &amp; death in strokes of blood and steel.  Perhaps politically incorrect by today's standards, &quot;The Song of Roland&quot;  nontheless remains immune to criticism, in part because of the crystal clarity with which its author perceived the powers of darkness and light.  A poem of unsurpassed heroic grandeur, featuring the most powerful battle scenes ever put to paper, &quot;The Song of Roland&quot; is an immortal monument to chivalry.  In the end, Roland dies as only a hero can; his sword-arm fails and Durendal slays its last pagan.  Yet Roland lives on in the poet's dream, and heroism will not fade away.	2001-12-26
US	42697264	R85EPIL54J6P6	1563891530	676174134	Power of Shazam	Books	4	12	12	N	N	CAPTAIN MARVEL FLIES AGAIN	&quot;The Power of Shazam!&quot; is a fun revitalization of the ORGINAL Captain Marvel, among the greatest of all Golden Age superheroes but one who has had a hard time finding his niche in the world of contemporary comics.  Jerry Ordway's interpretation of The World's Mightiest Mortal is perhaps DC's best, preserving (for the most part) the classic flavor of the old Fawcett stories while grounding &quot;Cap&quot; firmly in contemporary America.  Ordway's artwork is stylized and appealing, and if his script doesn't qualify as great literature, it at least deserves credit for some clever touches.  One of the best is Ordway's depiction of Fawcett City, almost a giant movie set from film noir and the perfect breeding ground for pulp adventure.  Billy's reaction to the Old Wizard's gift of power and the ensuing mental struggles are a neat twist to the character's origin, and Ordway's incarnation of Black Adam may be the most ruthless and believable ever.  Finally, the ultimate slugfest between Cap and Black Adam is a real bone-cruncher that effectively mixes action and comedy.  Though not really one of the great classics of comic storytelling, &quot;The Power of Shazam!&quot; is definitely a worthy addition to Shazam lore.	2001-09-09
US	42697264	R1NN66FZ9KJVZO	0849937396	85538998	Why I Believe	Books	5	5	8	N	N	EXCELLENT APOLOGY FOR EVANGELICAL CHRISTIANITY	&quot;Why I Believe&quot; is a masterpiece of Christian apologetics.  Kennedy writes as he preaches--with an obvious intelligence and remarkable clarity of thought.  His arguments are well documented from both Holy Scripture and historical fact itself.  Though perhaps not quite on the same level as C.S. Lewis's &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot; Kennedy's book is nonetheless a thought-provoking work that every Christian would be well-served to read.  One of the great things about Kennedy is that he never goes out of his way to be politically correct.  While some of his views may strike some--even fellow conservatives--as a bit too opinionated, I personally find his wholeheartedly partisan voice refreshing in this era of diluted faith.  Moreover, Kennedy's writing style is quite fluid and easy to understand, so you don't have to be a philosophy major to get the point.  If you are, so much the better--you'll have something new to philosophize about. No, everyone may not agree with Kennedy's point of view, but even the most critical open-minded reader should come away from &quot;Why I Believe&quot; with a lot to think about, even as orthodox Christians will find themselves better armed to defend their faith.	2001-09-09
US	42697264	R3EL6LT7JZY33M	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	3	7	13	N	N	WELCOME TO THE POLITICALLY CORRECT CAMELOT	Undeniably well-written and perhaps the most easily digestible long book I've ever read, Bradley's extremely popular and widely influential feminist take on the Arthurian legend is nonetheless a difficult book for me to recommend. Despite its considerable literary merits, &quot;The Mists of Avalon&quot; is badly flawed by the author's own questionable philosophical agenda, particularly as regards her evident mistrust and/or misunderstanding of Christianity. None of the Christians in the novel are admirable or even likeable, and the Church as a whole is too often portrayed as a bastion of intolerance and ignorance. Though some of the book's characters occasionally announce that it is not Christ Himself they fear, but merely His overzealous followers, it's just too little too late. On a more purely literary plane, Bradley further errs by casting Morgan le Fay as her main protagonist. Despite all the love Bradley can lavish on her &quot;heroine,&quot; the Priestess of Avalon still never comes across to me as anything more than a venomous spider at the heart of a very dark and vast web. Moreover, the book is rather repetitive, relying chapter-to-chapter on many recurring set pieces and devices, a weakness common to most lengthy novels. Finally, by telling the Arthurian story from the viewpoint of the largely non-combatant females, many of the elements that most appeal to large numbers of Arthurian fans (epic battles, tests of bravery and chivalry, etc.) are simply glossed over in passing, robbing the tale of much of its inherent grandeur. Even so, &quot;The Mists of Avalon&quot; manages to be largely entertaining and is clearly more than thoroughly researched. Liberals and especially New Agers will probably consider this a genuine masterpiece. Conservatives, particularly orthodox Christians, may find certain elements disagreeable, and might consider the recent TNT-produced movie more palatable. It's certainly more exciting, less dogmatic, and generally a little more instep with traditional Arthurian interpretations than its source novel.	2001-09-05
US	42697264	R3R4WH83F3XT0F	0312872135	539906341	Murcheston: The Wolf's Tale	Books	5	5	7	N	N	PROOF THAT HORROR CAN BE ART	David Holland's &quot;Murcheston: The Wolf's Tale,&quot; is a refreshing rejection of the splatterpunk school of contemporary horror. Rather than churning out just another hack'n' slash gorefest, Holland goes for a refined, richly atmospheric morality tale--which, consequently, is what traditional horror is all about, not graphic decapitations and streaming blood. Perhaps Holland's novel could be alternately known as &quot;Interview with the Werewolf,&quot; as in essence that is what much of the novel is. Through his diary, we're with him all the way as the Lord Darnley records his transformation from draconian but all-too-human aristocrat to monster wolf. The ensuing insight into the nature of evil, human and inhuman, and by contrast the opposing nature of good, is starkly illuminating and particularly pertinent to our own society. If the Victorian world in which Holland set his tale was one teetering on the brink of a moral abyss, what of our own, wherein morality is often defined in terms perhaps a bit too Darnley-like: you are your own judge, and no man--no God--can ever condemn you. Despite the supernatural basis of his story, Holland eschews many of the overly fantastic and traditional trappings of his genre, and so avoids some of the cliches that sink so many fantasy tales. His characters, human and otherwise, are well-developed and easy to identify with. Holland's style is scholarly but realistic and holds the reader in thrall to the end. A wonderful cauldron of misty mountains, spiraling emotions, moon-haunted skylines, and stealthy death, &quot;Murcheston&quot; is one of the very, very few horror novels that deserves to be called &quot;literature.&quot; If you are a frustrated horror fan who longs for something more than the usual fare, &quot;Murcheston&quot; has my highest possible recommendation.	2001-08-26
US	42697264	R2Q9FGU2HANXRT	0679750169	605770214	The Romance of Tristan and Iseult (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	40	42	N	Y	The Magic Of True Love	&quot;The Romance of Tristan &amp; Iseult&quot; is one of the foremost chivalric myths of all time.  A rich mosaic of the human experience, embroidered with colorful gothic elements like spell-weaving dwarves, love potions, magical bells and even a particularly monstrous dragon, &quot;Tristan &amp; Iseult&quot; is the tale of a heroic knight from fabled Lyonesse who falls madly in love with his King's betrothed through sorcery. Neither Tristan nor his Queen-to-be can resist the magic that possesses them both, and they cannot help but fling themselves headlong into an affair that shakes the very foundations of the Arthurian world.<br />More than a mere &quot;love story,&quot; this is a philosophical exploration of the human soul.  Are Tristan and Iseult really guilty of adultery?  Do they have a free will?  Do they truly love each other, or is their affair nothing but a sorcerous delusion?  Is King Mark the villain of the story, or is this a tale beyond conventional heroism or villainy?  <br />Readers familiar with the Arthurian legend will quickly draw parallels between Tristan and Iseult and Lancelot and Guinevere, whose tragic love brought Camelot to its knees.  Indeed, Malory cites Tristan (whom he refers to as &quot;Tristram&quot;) as a knight of such prowess and nobility that he is second only to Lancelot himself--and a close second at that.<br />If you are a dreamer, a hopeless romantic, this is the book you've been looking for.	2001-08-22
US	42697264	R22YYRNJ4GWQVP	0760308411	439993916	The Panther Tank	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Spotlight On An Overlooked Weapon	Almost anyone with a casual interest in WWII tank history is liable to be under the impression, fostered by popular movies, that the backbone of Nazi panzer units was the massive Tiger tank. Not so. While the Tiger was arguably the most powerful armored vehicle of the Second World War, the Panther was probably a more well-rounded weapon, nearly as well-armed and armored as its legendary cousin and significantly lighter and more mobile. Produced in far larger numbers than the Tiger, the Panther was the true mainstay of German armor during the second half of the war. <br />&quot;The Panther Tank,&quot; by Drs. Matthew Hughes and Chris Mann, is a solid, well-researched and handsomely illustrated showcase for one of the best armored vehicles of the 20th-century. Complete with scale drawings, cutaways, and full specifications of the Panther--including its several variants, such as the fearsome Jagdpanther tank destroyer--and all its major rivals (the American Sherman, Russian T-34, etc.), this book gives a complete general history of the Panther from the development stage to the last stand at Berlin. However, the word &quot;general&quot; is key. While Hughes and Mann have compiled a wealth of information, most of it is conveyed in very broad strokes. As a strategic guide to the overall place of the Panther in the ground war for Europe, &quot;The Panther Tank&quot; is exceptional. But the lack of tactical specifics is a distinct drawback. More first-hand accounts from German Panther crews, or even from allied tankers who had to confront the Panther, would have made this a much better book.<br />Still, Hughes and Mann have made a valuable contribution to tank scholarship. As a guide to the Panther's overall role in the German war effort or an introduction to a weapon often eclipsed by the mythical Tiger, &quot;The Panther Tank&quot; is an outstanding value.	2001-08-20
US	42697264	R1SY4E08OMT4TQ	0192833340	628528047	Sir Gawain and The Green Knight (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A classic worthy of the name	Many would-be readers are put-off by the word &quot;classic,&quot; inferring that anything tagged with that label is necessarily dry, inaccessible, and out-of-touch.  Sadly, they're often right.  But the immortal tale of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is one book from Oxford World's Classics no fan of Arthurian literature can afford to miss.  You want it, it's here:  action and romance, mystery and suspense, a heroic quest and a seemingly diabolic villain, and some of the most beautiful word-play ever put to paper, all wonderfully rendered in a fine easy-to-grasp translation by Keith Harrison.  <br />Readers expecting the same Gawain from Malory's Le Morte d'Arthur may be in for a bit of shock.  The titular hero of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is far more valiant than later writers chose to present him.  Indeed, even the mighty Lancelot pales next to Gawain here.  When the inscrutable Green Knight thunders into Camelot to challenge the King, none but Gawain dares step forward to accept the challenge on Arthur's behalf.  It's clear that in the eys of this poem's author, Gawain--not Lancelot--was chivalry's greatest champion.  <br />Though a story told in verse, Harrison's Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is actually easier reading than any edition of Malory I've seen, while the strong introduction and explanatory notes take care of most of the trouble spots.  Acccessibility was clearly a major priority.<br />Like all the best stories, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is never the same twice.  I first encountered this timeless tale years ago in college, but reading Harrison's edition was a whole new experience.  The poem is full of symbolism and raises many questions about the nature of chivalry, heroism, courtesy, sin, success, failure, and duty--someof which the poet leaves to the reader to answer for himself.<br />For those of you who haven't read this poem for a while, Harrison's translation is a great way to get reacquainted with an old friend.  And to those who have never read it, fearful of yet another barren &quot;classic,&quot; give it a shot.  It's definitely worth it.	2001-08-20
