US	42703596	R3VSCKT39ZBTWW	1581344031	14472253	God at Work: Your Christian Vocation in All of Life (Focal Point Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Veith at his best!	This is truly an encouraging book for all Christians to read. I believe this book will have a very broad appeal to Christians of every age, as they wonder about how the 'spiritual' enters into the 'practical' of everyday life. Veith reawakens us to the biblical truth of Christian 'vocation' or calling, whereby God uses each of us to be little incarnations of His love on earth. Understanding how even the most mundane tasks can be filled with spiritual significance as we work out our faith in love (Gal. 5:6). The marvelous truth is that by faith in Jesus Christ, we are members of Christ's body, the church, and our callings as parents, sons, daughters, grandparents, workers, citizens, etc become the realms in which Christ excercises His love through us. Doubtless this book will give many Christians a renewed outlook on their life and vocations, and not by putting them into a legalistic mindset--but rather, by showing us how our consciences are freed from the accusation of the Law by faith in Jesus Christ. And this same faith becomes living and active in all we do, to the glory of God. Yet neither is the doctrine of vocation an airy idealism. No; it also takes into account our sinful nature as humans, and how we face the cross of suffering in our vocations as well. But in all the trials and conflicts of life we have the constant promise of Jesus' forgiveness and a bodily resurrection in heaven one day. Truly a comforting book.	2005-07-28
US	42703596	R2WIMT15UH2LSP	1568582838	625674578	One Nation Under Gods: A History of the Mormon Church	Books	5	17	23	N	N	No sanitized history here!	One Nation Under Gods is a surprisingly readable history of the Mormon Church. The size might intimidate some readers, but around 200 pages are footnotes and appendices. Abanes shows himself to have thoroughly researched and documented the sources for his history, and reports the details that are left out of official LDS history. This vital service should counteract the massive PR campaign that the LDS has been on for decades, to present a sparkling image and try to slide in among all the other Christian denominations.  <br /> <br />This book does not provide extensive detail about the beliefs of the Mormon church and their theology, but it outlines them and shows their developments. He does, however, include enough of their theology to show that Mormonism is clearly not Christian. I do agree with another reviewer that some of Abane's reasoning in Ch. 17 isn't the greatest, but he does the job of showing its incompatible belief system. And the comparison between Christianity and Mormonism is certainly not akin to the comparison between Eastern Orthodoxy and Roman Catholicism. Both of the latter two affirm the historic creeds of Christianity. Mormonism, however, maintains a belief in multiple gods (i.e. their doctrine of man's ascendency to godhood) and teaches a false atonement.  <br /> <br />Herein lies the great significance of Abane's work: it should make it utterly apparent to all Christians that Mormonism is NOT Christian and despite the LDS' efforts to 'blend-in', the Mormon beliefs are leading many people astray under the pretense of being just another Christian church. Mormon history clearly reveals how Joseph Smith felt about the relationship of the Mormon church to Christianity. That, by the way, is the most interesting part of the book. The biographies of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, the first two and most prominent leaders/prophets of the Mormon church are responsible for inventing a religion that is antagonistic to Christianity, and at one time was clearly antagonistic to the U.S. Government. Its fascinating to see the sheer megalomania of Smith and Young as they quite literally led a militaristic church toward their prophetic goals of establishing an earthly Zion. They also used the pretense of \\"God's will\\" and divine prophecy to cloak all manner of sins that are clearly condemned in the Bible, including adultery, murder, occultism, and most of all...breaking the first commandment \\"You Shall Have No Other Gods\\".  <br /> <br />It is truly a sorrowful thing that Mormons do not worship the true God--but unless Christians recognize Mormonism for what it is, they are allowing the Mormon religion to go unaccountable for its false teachings and revisionist history. In sharp contrast to Mormonism, Christianity is a religion that practically begs for its historical claims to be examined and tested. The Christian religion is vitally linked to its historicity, centering around the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Mormonism on the other hand is deliberately deceptive regarding its past, as seen in this book and in their responses to a complete and unrelenting record of their history. Read this book, examine the facts for yourself.	2005-07-24
US	42703596	R1S84KT5KAE5YB	0773759980	842412340	The Best of It Happened in Hockey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Colorful anecdotes and history.	This is an excellent book for a young hockey fan who wants to learn about the colorful past of the NHL and the other leagues that formed around it. It's not a history book per se, and doesn't offer any organized history of hockey, but rather is a scattered collection of short anecdotes from all eras of hockey up until the early 90's. You are sure to laugh at some of the stories and grimace at others. The book is a light read and the anecdotes are just the right length for picking up the book and reading a dozen or so at a time. It only makes me wish they will put out an updated version in the next few years to cover the most recent decade of hockey. My only complaint is that the stories didn't consistently include the dates they were set in (though the majority of the time they did). Sometimes this made it a guessing game when the events took place. But other than that this is a delightful book for all hockey fans, old and young.	2005-07-16
US	42703596	RT8G1NXI6AAOG	0802844499	531572019	Preaching Christ from the Old Testament: A Contemporary Hermeneutical Method	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Valuable for Seminarians and Pastors	Greidanus tackles a crucial topic in this book and handles it quite well. He notes that the Biblical (and particularly OT) illiteracy prevalent in the Christian church at large is in a large part due to the paucity of preaching from the Old Testament. Yet pastors often struggle to know how to preach from OT texts, and when they do they often fall into numerous pitfalls.  <br /> <br />Greidanus does an excellent job of critiquing numerous pitfalls that the preacher might encounter in preaching the OT, especially those that would insufficiently address the text itself (i.e. using the text as a 'pretext' to skip to some other idea) or the more deadly error of ignoring the centrality of Christ in the sermon. Along with St. Paul, Greidanus exhorts the reader to be constant in preaching Christ crucified, and that generically 'God-centered' preaching is not enough. The task of the preacher is to specifically show how the fulness of God's self-revelation and salvation is found in Christ Jesus.  <br /> <br />So in order to prepare the preacher for this great task, Greidanus provides an excellent review of major preachers/theologians in the history of the church, to see how they preached Christ from the Old Testament. As the author comes from a Calvinist background, I think he misrepresented Luther slightly, but overall he gave a fair and balanced critique of the preachers. He did critique Calvin's 'theocentric' method of preaching as insufficient. AFter his examination of historical preachers, Greidanus sets out at length to show positive methods for preaching Christ from the OT while remaining faithful to the text. He provides several sound approaches and shows step-wise how to apply each method. He offers samples on both easy and harder texts for preaching Christ in the OT.  <br /> <br />Overall I found the book very helpful, and would expect that preachers from a variety of traditions could still read his book with great benefit. I think one aspect that I'd critique is that he was somewhat over-restrictive in the ways he saw fit to preach Christ from the OT. He was right to criticize the excesses of the allegorical method so common in the early church, but he seems to have an unnecessary concern about potential misuse of the 'details' of the OT texts. He harps on this point over and over, that the preacher should never attempt to draw out parallels in details of a text to the New Testament when preaching the typological method. But regardless, any reader will be able to see and examine for themselves the gamut of possibilities in OT preaching that Greidanus presents, and learn how best to apply them.	2005-07-10
US	42703596	RRNCMZJ8KU7TS	1592449905	761862010	James, the Apostle of Faith: A Primary Christological Epistle for the Persecuted Church	Books	5	13	13	N	N	James gets his due from a Lutheran	In this short work, David Scaer provides an excellent and very readable commentary on the Epistle of James. Luther's distaste for the book is well-known, leaving some Lutherans more apt to undervalue the book. And mainly this is over the apparent contradiction on justification between James and the Apostle Paul, whose writings and theological weight dominate the New Testament.  <br /> <br />But Scaer adeptly demonstrates that the Apostle James was not a theologian of works, and was addressing different issues than the Apostle Paul, who wrote later than James' epistle. Scaer's book is most valuable for its unlocking of a thoroughly Christological reading of the epistle. He carefully demonstrates how the language of James is loaded with theological imagery, especially drawn from the Gospels and Jesus' teachings in the Sermon on the Mount.  <br /> <br />I did find it a bit unusual how often Scaer suggests that other NT authors may actually have been 'dependent' on James, or at least developed his ideas in more detail. But this is based on his view that James is not only one of the earliest NT writings, but the very first. But regardless, the book shows clearly throughout, that James was not a mere preacher of morals, but a writer who was clearly drawing on Christological imagery to demonstrate the shape of the Christian life and the responsibility of pastors. The back cover summarizes the book the best: \\"You may not agree with everything he says, but your thinking will certainly be stimulated.\\" I certainly found this book increased my understanding of James, and would highly recommend it to all readers; and especially to Lutherans who struggle with reconciling James and Paul on the relationship of faith and works. Scaer ably shows the harmony, rather than discontinuity between the two.	2005-06-09
US	42703596	R3KH860YFUR68S	B0007ISFPC	447465672	From Shadows to Reality: Studies in the Biblical Typology of the Fathers	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Fascinating in some chapters, dull in others	Danielou's examination of how the early church fathers interpreted the Old Testament is a book of uneven quality in my opinion. I waffled on whether to give the book 3 or 4 stars, so 3.5 is probably what it deserves. The book lays out in detail several examples of Old Testament typology, focusing on the first 6 books of the Bible, Genesis through Joshua. Typology is essentially the study of how Old Testament people, places, themes, and events foreshadow or outline New Testament realities in a prophetic or 'typical' way. For example the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites is a type of the future reality of Baptism, whereby Christians are washed clean from their slavery to sin (cf. slavery in Egypt). The actual content and interpretations in typology that Danielou provides is quite good. I especially enjoyed the section on Rahab as a type of the Church, and the comparision of Adam and Christ. The parts of the book that really dragged, and were uninteresting was Danielou's rather wordy descriptions of what the church father's meant, and the sections that dealt with allegories. It was helpful, however, that Danielou spent some time distinguishing allegory (which he rejects) and the hermeneutics of typology. But, he did this multiple times, and the example of the allegory of the ark should have been enough to get his point across. Overall I enjoyed the insight that came from quoting his sources, but I didn't find Danielou's commentary very interesting. Some chapters on allegory in particular are worth skipping altogether.	2005-03-26
US	42703596	R1VULNMX7GQLNY	0570042895	666193305	Law, Life, and the Living God: The Third Use of Law in Modern American Lutheranism	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Reassess your views on the 3rd use of the Law	This book turned out to be much better than I had anticipated, and that's saying a lot because I expected to enjoy it at the start. It will be a valuable book for Pastors, seminarians, and interested laymen, especially in the Lutheran church, but also for Reformed readers who hold the Calvinist view of the 3rd use (to see a Lutheran critique of your position). It helps the reader recognize and reconsider the importance of the 3rd use of the Law, and its place in the life of the Christian. The book does this by focusing on the historical and systematic side of the issue, as it developed within American Lutheranism from 1940-1998, with reference backward to theologians of the Reformation.  <br /> <br />What I found most interesting was the close connection that is established between Gospel-reductionism and its two-fold consequence of denying Scriptural inerrancy (and permitting the wolf of historical criticism into the church) and the denial of the 3rd use of the Law. By essentially extracting the principle of Law and Gospel out of scripture and holding it ABOVE scripture, the liberal theologians who were the forebears of the modern ELCA placed themselves in the position to critique and overrule Scriptural teachings on the basis that they were 'not-Gospel'. In keeping with this Gospel-reductionistic attitude, they also denied the continuing significance of the law in the life of the church and the Christian, which is nothing other than antinomianism. Therefore the 3rd use of the law (as a distinctive function for the believer) was obliterated.  <br /> <br />In contrast to this stream of liberal theology, the Missourians exposed the error of making law/gospel a hermeneutical principle external to the scriptures, and rather as a reality WITHIN Scripture. Murray does an excellent job of explaining this and the contrasting views, and also gives lengthy treatment to the various stereotypical views of Law/Gospel that run into error. He is also rigorously consistent in maintaining the Formula of Concord understanding of the third use.  <br /> <br />I did have two or three small criticisms of the book, where I found room for improvement. One is the frequent use of latin and german phrases without providing translations in the endnotes or within the text. I was frequently able to determine from context and from recognition of common theological phrases what the latin and german phrase meant. But other times I was left to make a crude guess at the translation. It wouldn't have taken much to provide translations in a footnote, and it would make a big difference in the accessibility of the book to the average layman. A second criticism is the shortness of the conclusion at the end. Murray did an excellent job of critiquing various viewpoints along the way, but could have provided a more thorough recap of the positive understanding of the 3rd use at the end. Finally, I thought there were some points where it was a little unclear whether the commentary around certain quotes from the liberal theologians was reflecting Murray's thoughts, or his summary of their position. Usually it became clear on re-reading several times, but that seemed to be mainly a matter of editing.  <br /> <br />Despite those minor concerns, I would highly recommend this book for its value in sharpening your understanding of the 3rd use of the law, as well as to help alert you to subtle errors in this doctrine that are easily overlooked.	2005-03-03
US	42703596	R3AJSLVSLS3C4U	0810004275	207460171	What's Going On Among Lutherans?: A Comparison of Beliefs (Impact Series)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	See the frightening departures from historic Christianity...	This book is an excellent gathering of sources to study the problem of liberalism as it is expressing itself in the Lutheran Churches in America; but also reflects liberalism in Christianity at large. It documents the beginnings and progression of liberalism within the Lutheran church, and gives ample documentation of the frightening abandonment of historic Christian teaching by the liberals. The first portion of the book is the most eye opening, and enumerates the key doctrines that have been abandoned by liberals, from the incarnation, resurrection (really all miracles and the supernatural), to the Trinity, Atonement, the inspiration and inerrancy of Scripture, and countless other points. The extensive treatment of historical criticism is well done, as well as discussions of the 'new morality'. This first section focuses mainly on the writings and statements of the theologians and church leaders of the various bodies that formed the ELCA. Throughout this section the conservative position is outlined at each point along with the liberal position. <br /> <br />The second portion gives a nice treatment of the strenghts of Lutheran theology, and shows the various 'non-liberal' dangers to Lutheran theology. These are the influence on the one hand of Roman Catholic interpretation of Scripture, and on the other, the Reformed interpretation. The pitfall of the former being the addition of tradition and ecclesiastical interpretation OVER the Scriptures and the pitfall of the latter being the use of reason majesterially (as a judge) over Scripture. It also discusses the problem of Pietism, which essentially first flowered in Lutheranism, and has now spread to many other denominations.  <br /> <br />The last section is a very interesting historical account of the various Lutheran church bodies in America, and the myriads of mergers and splits and associations that took place leading up till today. It also shows how the theological positions of each church body led it into the unions or splits of its history. One of the lessons I think that can be learned from the history in this book is the tendency of moderates to continually slide to the left. Wherever compromise is allowed in matters of faith, it almost always ends in error. Toleration of error and doctrinal indifference open the door to greater and greater acceptance of false teaching, and abandonment of historic Christianity.  <br /> <br />All of this should be a wake up call to Christians to stand firm in the faith and be on the watch for wolves in sheeps clothing, that would depart from the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ. Let us cling to Him and His Word; for He will preserve His church from all attacks within and without!	2005-02-19
US	42703596	R1DJIZP16ZJ38K	057004278X	21504914	We Confess Anthology	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Timeless contribution to Lutheran theology	Hermann Sasse's writing grows on me the more I read it. His thoughtful and biblical analysis of his times and the prevailing theological issues is no less valuable for the church today. He only wrote half a century ago, but the things he says could have easily been written to the church today. The issues he faced sometimes are still the same today, and others directly parallel issues today. This volume is divided into three portions, \\"We Confess Jesus Christ,\\" \\"We Confess the Sacraments\\" and \\"We Confess the Church.\\" Each is a compilation of letters, essays, and sermons that he wrote, and can be read entirely independent of each other. His explanation of what it means to 'confess' as a Christian, and what are the circumstances that bring about 'confession' are very illuminating. I thoroughly enjoyed his discussions of the ancient creeds and confessions of Christendom.  His essay on the Lutheran understanding of consecration, the essay on Article VII of the Augsburg Confession in the present crisis of Lutheranism, and the essay Ministry and Congregation were all exceptional. Sasse was a remarkable theologian who was unabashed in denouncing falsehood, yet wrote with a true pastor's heart and desire for real unity in the truth of the Gospel. This is a book to read and re-read. <br />	2005-02-09
US	42703596	R3HSI21P8Y4IDL	0570042852	200427414	Liturgical Preaching: Contemporary Essays	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Preaching in the Divine Service	Liturgical Preaching is an excellent collection of essays on various aspects of strengthening the connection between the sermon and the liturgical service in which it is preached. It also gives plenty of insights in how to utilize the various resources available to improve your preaching. A valuable essay on the advantages of using the lectionary (historically assigned weekly Scripture readings that follow the church calendar) was especially useful. Other essays advise on how to preach sacramentally and with Law and Gospel, while avoiding common pitfalls that make sermons either drab or stereotypical. An essay on the meaning of the liturgy shows how a preacher can take advantage of opportunities in the lectionary to preach on various liturgical texts (such as the Agnus Dei, John 1:29) without becoming pedantic. Most of the authors cite helpful examples from their own preaching on how to put into practice the suggestions they offer. A few essays were less impressive, and are not worth re-reading; but the majority of the essays were excellent, and would serve well as a resource to keep handy for studying various aspects of your preaching. I also found the book sparked several ideas that helped shape my own preaching while I was reading it. A book to keep in your library as a helpful resource.	2004-12-28
US	42703596	RY1HKAUYV0BBC	7119005901	787682184	Three Kingdoms (Chinese Classics, 4 Volumes)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Fascinating step into Ancient China	Like many other reviewers, the way I first found out about this book was through the Dynasty Warriors video game. I decided to try reading the unabridged version, though somewhat daunted by the size. I did expect the book to be interesting, but I also thought it would be difficult reading. Little did I expect for the book to far exceed my expectations! The Three Kingdoms is a fascinating look into the history (albeit somewhat fictionalized) of China during a roughly 100 year period between 180-280 AD, during which the Han Dynasty fell(the Han was the longest lasting and most powerful dynasty according to the Afterword).  <br /> <br />The book is full of stories of honor, courage, and loyalty; as well as betrayal, cowardice, and deception. Three Kingdoms is not just a book about wars, although battle is featured prominently in the book--it spends equal or greater amounts of time peering into the political intrigue, power-struggles, and military strategy. The book is loaded with characters, which presents probably the greatest challenge to a Western reader. Learning the names of the main characters might come easier than you might think, and there is a helpful list of main characters in the back of the fourth volume (though even many of those listed there appear only momentarily in the novel). I would also suggest reading the foreward and at least the beginning of the afterword in the fourth volume before beginning the book--it will give helpful background information.  <br /> <br />The storytelling in the Three Kingdoms is so compelling that I often found myself practically cheering for my favorite characters, and often laughing out loud at peculiar victories or witty dialogue. The beginning of the book focuses on Liu Bei (Xuande) a man of admirable character and virtue, but often frustrating leadership. The main body of the book deals with Zhuge Liang (Kongming), who is Liu Bei's military strategist. Kongming is definitely the most fascinating character, and his strategies and manipulation are delightful to watch unfold. The book also has scores of heroes and villains, and gives insight into the values and virtues that were highly regarded by the Chinese. Towards the end of the book the storyline briefly begins to sag as most of the main characters die off, and yet the characters Jiang Wei and Deng Ai redeem the end of the book, and still carry on the suspense and excitement that was stronger and brighter in the first 3/4ths of the novel. All in all I was disappointed when I finished, ONLY because there wasn't more to read! I would definitely read this book again and recommend it to anyone who wants to read a true epic of Chinese history.	2004-12-28
US	42703596	R3KYEMW8OEHBE0	0310369800	171729637	Reader's Hebrew-English Lexicon of the Old Testament, A	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Buy this book to Study Hebrew!	This is an excellent book in a convenient size, that enables a beginning Biblical Hebrew student to read the Scriptures. You can't entirely rely on this volume if you are serious about studying Hebrew, but it makes a much more accessible alternative to the Brown Driver Briggs Lexicon. As the other reviewers have pointed out, the helpful glossary in the back will give you all the most common (50 times or more) Hebrew words, ones that you should begin to memorize. the bulk of the book is goes through the Old Testament verse by verse and gives extra help on rare and difficult words. You obviously will need to know your grammar before you can use this book, but for those who have studied it but aren't completely solid, the book will make an excellent refresher as you use it to read the bible. This book is well worth the money to add to your library.  <br />	2004-12-17
US	42703596	R2EJU38R7MKDPD	0801021650	667478541	More Light on the Path: Daily Scripture Readings in Hebrew and Greek	Books	2	21	22	N	N	A Study Tool	I was somewhat torn on how to rate this item. From the standpoint of having a daily-devotional book that will lead you to spend more time practicing your Hebrew and Greek skills, it probably deserves a 3.5-4 star rating. From the standpoint of its usefulness for doing so, it deserves a 2. The most valuable aspect of the book is the simple fact that it gives short reading selections for you to practice each day, which will help you get into a healthy regimen of study.  <br /> <br />However, the biggest downfall of this book is the poor study helps they made. Judging from what another reviewer said, they seem to have actually taken a step backward on the usefulness of the Hebrew helps. I agree. For the beginning student in Hebrew, the helps are so limited that you will not be able to translate the passages without another complete study tool. You might as well just ignore the Hebrew helps in the margins. They assume far too much regarding your knowledge of Hebrew vocabulary. I'm judging that by comparison to the Greek helps, where they provide far more help, and even on relatively simple and common Greek words. There really is an imbalance, and if you want to keep up BOTH your Greek and Hebrew, you will need a supplementary tool for the HEbrew like the Armstrong, Busby, Carr \\"Reader's Hebrew-English Lexicon of the Old Testament.\\" This book has a very useful glossary as well as verse by verse helps with those less-common words that don't occur in the glossary. It also is much simpler and more user-friendly than the dreaded Brown Drivers Briggs Lexicon. Its a pity that More Light on the Path didn't do a better job with the text helps. The other frustrating part about the helps is the original language spelling errors that are so frequent. That certainly doesn't help out the beginning student either.  <br /> <br />Despite all the negative feedback I gave on this book, I'd still probably recommend buying it, simply because I'm not aware of any other daily Hebrew & Greek readings books that are in print. If you get an additional study tool for either the Greek or Hebrew along with it, you should be fine.	2004-12-16
US	42703596	R2IU1BBBDMTORW	057003275X	499603529	The Lord's Supper/De Coena Domini (English and Latin Edition)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The True Bodily Presence of Christ in the Lord's Supper	Martin Chemnitz's entire work on the Lord's Supper is centered on one pivotal issue: the True Bodily Presence of Jesus Christ in the Lord's Supper. Despite the singular topic, the book is remarkably multifaceted, as Chemnitz relentlessly attacks and defends the issue from a multitude of angles. Though he certainly couldn't forestall every argument that might be raised against the real bodily presence, he doesn't claim or aim to. He rather deals with the arguments that seem to be most persuasive.  <br /> <br />Chemnitz further establishes that in regard to this most important matter of Christ's presence or absence from the Supper, we must squarely face the most relevant texts in Scripture. Those most important texts are the words of Institution, recorded four times by the evangelists. The part of the book where Chemnitz excels most of all is in the sections in the first half where he gives an exegetical treatment of each of the four institution accounts. He also lays important groundwork for the discussion on methods and procedures of Scriptural interpretation. <br /> <br />He lays considerable emphasis on the seriousness and urgency with which Christ spoke these words on His last night with His disciples--being under great duress. Chemnitz shows at length how it is inconceivable that Jesus could have been speaking in a figurative way when He was establishing His last will and testament to His church. Above all things, Chemnitz urges the reader to stick to the simple, plain and natural sense of the words of Christ and that if we were to believe otherwise, Christ would have made this clear in the Scriptures.  <br /> <br />The book is excellent for its thorough organization and its excellent table of contents, which make it an excellent reference book. I think the only real criticism I could make of the book is that it becomes unneccessarily repetitive at the end. In the interest of driving home his central point, Chemnitz reiterates his argument so many times that itbecomes tedious (especially if you already accept his premise). The other thing that I found somewhat disappointing was that the book didn't cover any other points of interest on the Lord's Supper, such as its significance for fellowship and confession, etc. But understandably that wasn't his purpose.  <br /> <br />All in all the book is one to have for your library and to refer back to. One of the quotes that I think sums up the book well is this, \\"Why therefore do we humans oppose as an impossibility what the words of His testament state concerning the body of Christ and its presence in the Supper, as if He cannot be where He wills with His body, or as if the will of Christ revealed in the Word wills something which is not proper for His body unless we help ourselves with the aid of a figure of speech?\\"	2004-12-16
US	42703596	RJUUXMVYCP7RV	0570052548	316783494	The Sermon on the Mount: The Church's First Statement of the Gospel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Christological Interpretation of the Sermon on the Mount	David Scaer is truly at home in his favorite Gospel, the Gospel of Matthew. His book is a very worthwhile read, if simply for the depth of his insight into Matthew's Gospel, that comes from a lifetime of study. To this is added the benefit of his determined intent to see Christ as central in all things, especially in the Sermon on the Mount. Where this is especially helpful, is in showing that the high demands made in the Sermon are not just impossible moral injunctions, but rather they are descriptive of Christ's own perfect obedience to the Law, and the righteousness He earned for us thereby. It is therefore in Christ that these statements (such as the Beatitudes) become descriptive of the life of the Christian, as the love of Christ works in us.  <br /> <br />Scaer's treatment of the Sermon on the Mount is readable and interesting, and attempts to engage especially those more difficult passages of the Sermon. Sometimes his explanations, particularly for those more difficult passages, are less obvious (or intuitive) than the commonly given interpretations. One of my chief complaints with the book is the unnecessary amount of attention given to various historical critical attitudes toward the Gospel. It is also curious why at many points throughout the book, Matthew's role as author seems to almost eclipse the fact that Jesus Himself spoke the words. What I mean by this is that you will frequently notice that Scaer asks what MATTHEW's purpose was in saying something a certain way, or using certain title's--when referring to the direct words of Jesus (not the intervening narratives). This seems to make Matthew responsible for the real theologizing intent behind the Gospel, rather than Jesus. Now, I'm certain that Scaer would not actually espouse that idea, but it begs the question of why he consistently writes that way. My best guess is that it relates to his interest in Matthew's role in collecting the various teachings of Jesus and compiling them into the Sermon on the Mount. It is also only fair to point out that Scaer firmly believes in the historicity of all the accounts, and that Jesus is in fact speaking with Divine Authority. I did appreciate Scaer's honesty in identifying his presuppositions and biases at the beginning of the book, and even specifically denying such higher critical theories as the \\"Q\\" document.  <br /> <br />Overall, though, the above complaint does not detract from a fine work that is a valuable contribution to the interpretation of the Sermon. Furthermore, this book is particularly helpful for preaching on the Sermon on the Mount, as it draws attention to Christ and His work, rather than human ethical or moral righteousness.	2004-11-08
US	42703596	R1XSW32B2SX9CN	0375757325	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A wonderful book for those who love to imagine	Robinson Crusoe was one of my childhood favorites, and rereading it as an adult was just as enjoyable as ever. As many have already pointed out, it is definitely a book for the detail-oriented reader--not for those looking for lots of fast-paced adventure. Nevertheless, there is plenty of adventure in the book. I did find the book somewhat uneven, with some parts having a repetitive bent, others flowing smoothly, and others being so rapidly told that you almost lose track of what's happening. All that said, I love the book for its careful description of how he makes out on the deserted island, and all of the ingenious ways in which he builds things, makes implements for farming and cooking, guards his home(s), etc. Its almost disappointing when he leaves the island halfway through the book, and there is a lull in the adventure. But it picks right up again and continues with more of his adventures around the world, including a brief return to his island. Perhaps the book is unrealistic in parts, but that is what makes it so fun for imagining. It is also fascinating to see his character develop, as he faces moral and religious dilemmas, and matures as he ages. Altogether, this book is very enjoyable, but you have to be a patient and detail-oriented reader to appreciate it. <br />	2004-10-08
US	42703596	RHCJRH7NGUQK4	0890512582	521961568	Refuting Evolution: A Handbook for Students, Parents, and Teachers Countering the Latest Arguments for Evolution	Books	4	28	55	N	N	A fine overview of the common issues	In this short book, Sarfati responds to the book \\"Teaching About Evolution.\\" His style is passionate and his arguments are vigorous, which is no doubt why so many reviewers reacted so strongly (negatively) to his book (often without addressing the real facts of the matter). However, the basic logic of the book is sound, and Sarfati is completely open with stating his biases and presuppositions; a characteristic that is utterly lacking in most evolutionist writings. When Sarfati addresses the various scientific problems with evolution, he does so with careful reasoning and sound argumentation. The flaws that he finds in \\"Teaching About Evolution\\" are astonishing; especially the inconsistency of \\"Teaching About Evolution's\\" responses to creation science. This is a good \\"starter\\" book on creation and evolution, and it should help to continue opening up discussion and debate on this important issue. If evolutionists are sincerely confident in their theories, they should not fear open circulation and discussion in the scientific realms.	2004-10-03
US	42703596	R9T9WIP2U0I9K	083081891X	483879559	Written on the Heart: The Case for Natural Law	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Pressing after natural revelation	Although this book is written as sort of a college textbook/primer on natural law, it is a very readable summary of the main theories of natural law, as well as an evaluation of each. Budziszewski also provides a short, but well written apologetic of the Christian view of natural law at the end. That section, as well as the first section on Aristotle, I found to be the most interesting and useful.  <br /> <br />He shows how important natural law is in politics (very broadly defined as the partnership in a good life). In an pluralistic era such as we are in, with prevailing theories of post-modernism and humanism, there often seems to be little or no recognized common basis for truth. Many do not even believe in ultimate truth, which presents a sure formula for chaos. As truth continues to be eroded, what common basis for maintaining \\"the good\\" in society remains? If ultimate truth is not recognized, then how can morality be determined?  <br /> <br />Here is where Budziszewski's book steps into the gap to show, through logical consideration and the common intuition of mankind, that there are in fact moral standards that humanity as a whole recognizes. There is an inherent knowledge of good and evil, written on our heart, as Romans 2:15 says. He also has excellent discussions on how is is possible for humans to obscure or distort this law written on their heart so that they ignore it or twist it to the detriment of themselves and their fellow members of society. Coming to a common recognition of natural law principles is an important part of governing a pluralistic society where not everyone accepts the authority and inspiration of the Christian Bible and the Law contained therein.  <br /> <br />But God in His providence has written the essential content of the Law on the hearts of all mankind. Budziszewski does a fine job of showing this to be true, and his argument would even be persuasive to non-Christians. He also clearly delineates between natural revelation and\\"special revelation\\", and how natural revelation does not lead one to a saving knowledge of God in Christ Jesus (whereas \\"special revelation\\"--i.e. the Bible/Word of God--does). Budziszewski also does a fine job of answering critics of natural law theory, both from Christian and non-Christian contenders.	2004-09-15
US	42703596	R1CMG552NHRO2I	0890819769	319613811	Christianity in Crisis	Books	5	5	10	N	Y	Invaluable Up-close look at the "Word of Faith Movement"	This is truly an eye-opening book. Hanegraaf gives a careful and thoroughly documented examination of several popular televangelists that have gained huge followings worldwide. Some of the main characters are Benny Hinn, Kenneth Hagin, Kenneth Copeland, Frederick Price, Marilyn Hickey, Morris Cerullo, Robert Tilton, Paul and Jan Crouch, and others. I think that almost every one of the above, still is broadcasting on TV or operating some multimillion dollar \\"ministry\\". And these televangelists have their imitators and disciples too, so their teachings are much more widespread then you might like to acknowledge.  <br /> <br />He shows that even though they go under the guise of being Christian, they are really false teachers, or as Jesus said, Matthew 7:15, \\"Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing but inwardly are ravenous wolves.\\" Hanegraaf exposes the wolves from their sheep's clothing, and turns the light on their false teachings. Each of these teachers promotes gravely dangerous false teachings that are jeopardizing the souls of millions, not to mention profaning the name of Christ. It will truly shock you, if you don't already know firsthand, how distorted their teachings really are.  <br /> <br />Hanegraaf identifies the most blatantly false teachings the Faith Movement espouses, such as the deification of man, basically elevating him to equality with God; demoting God to appear as a if He were merely a weak entity that lost control of His creation and somehow needs OUR PERMISSION to work in this world; teaching that Satan defeated Christ at the cross, and tortured Him in hell before Jesus escaped out of Satan's clutches by a cosmic technicality; a slew of false teachings on the atonement; fraudulent claims of physical healing that have led many to refuse needed medical attention; and they have a strange teaching of faith which makes it out to be some cosmic power we can tap into if we only try hard enough, rather than the Biblical teachingthat faith is  trust in Christ Jesus.  <br /> <br />Some of these so-called Faith teachers have actually taught that God is a failure; that the Trinity is really three triune Gods instead of One God; that Jesus was an exceedingly wealthy man, and that He promises us the same wealth and prosperity. In short, these self-proclaimed prophets of the Word are clearly teaching contrary to the very word of God--sometimes even so bold as to CHANGE the words of the Bible to an entirely opposite meaning! And many of them claim personal revelations from God or angels to authenticate their claims!  <br /> <br />If you are a follower of this movement, you need to read this book to have the wool pulled off your eyes. Even if you just consider yourself an average Christian who watches these televangelists on occasion, and thinks that they are harmless--read this book and you will be convinced that they are in fact distorting the Gospel of Christ. We all would do well to remember St. Paul's admonition to the Galatians when they were being misled by false teachers: Galatians 1:6-8 \\"I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel- [7] not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ.  [8] But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.\\" The so-called \\"Gospel\\" of the Faith Movement is not the Gospel of Christ, that is, the Gospel of the Bible. Rather it is a false Gospel which is really no Gospel at all. It is critical that Christians today follow the example of the Bereans (Acts 17:11) who daily tested what they were being taught and compare it to the Word of God.  <br /> <br />	2004-09-12
US	42703596	R2O8CH896QCXTF	0758605145	181180861	Why I Am a Lutheran: Jesus at the Center	Books	5	59	61	N	N	An Excellent Affirmation of the Christian Faith!	Preus does a wonderful job in this book of presenting a summary of the Christian faith and how the Lutheran church, by the grace of God, has upheld the teachings of the Bible. With clarity of explanation and thorough support from the Scriptures, Preus shows how all doctrine (teaching) is centered in Christ Jesus. He examines the main points of Christianity, and shows how Jesus is central for each of them. Not only that, but he show that when Christ is not kept central to our teaching, the glory of God is lost because man displaces God. Preus uses great illustrations to explain his points, and writes in an engaging style. This book is well worth a read by any Christian, and could only serve to help them understand the Christian faith more accurately (Acts 18:26). This book was not written to deny the faith of other Christians, which it does not do--however it does show how Lutheranism holds more accurately to the Biblical teachings. Read this book with a Bible in hand :)	2004-07-19
US	42703596	R30ZHAOG4O8718	0830812784	341654930	Christian Spirituality: Five Views of Sanctification	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Where does the Christian life start, and what does it do?	This book is an excellent study, comparison, and critique of the Lutheran, Reformed, Wesleyan, Pentecostal, and Contemplative views on Sanctification. As another reviewer correctly noted, the Lutheran and Reformed views are intentionally founded on the Bible, and arrive at their conclusions from key Scriptural passages. The Wesleyan, Pentecostal, and Contemplative views though making occasional references to Scripture, are formulated based on experience and are much more subjective. Though the content of the latter three essays is of less substance, I rate the book at four stars because of the valuable information it offers on the different perspectives. <br />Another feature of the book which makes it all the more interesting are the responses to each of the five essays. After each view is presented, the other four authors provide their compliments as well as their critiques. It also becomes evident as one reads the book, how the Lutheran and Reformed views are very Christ-centered, while the remainder are anthropocentric. None of the essays are flawless, of course. The Lutheran essay is a little too short and doesn't cover enough ground, and the Reformed essay wrongly seeks the motivation for Christian sanctification in the 3rd use of the Law. Yet both nail the essential point of how the Christian life is lived as both saint and sinner (Romans 7). <br />The Wesleyan author explicitly doubts this Christian truth, which is why he is able to hold to the faulty notion of &quot;Christian perfection&quot;, which ends up watering-down the demands of the law. The Contemplative author seeks illumination and love of God in mystic inner meditation, a dangerous practice because it seeks God elsewhere than He has promised to be found--namely in His Word and Sacraments. And the Pentecostal view makes speaking in tongues an essential criteria of sanctification, which certainly adds to what the Scriptures say. <br />Altogether, the essays here are valuable reading, but each mustbe read critically, and examined against the light of Scripture.	2004-05-31
US	42703596	R3S74A2JN4OJGI	0801022282	348271933	Mission in the Old Testament: Israel as a Light to the Nations	Books	4	7	7	N	N	General Treatment of OT mission texts	This short book treats a variety of familiar Old Testament passages in order to show that &quot;mission&quot;, as bringing the message of salvation to unbelievers, was not an innovation of the New Testament church. Kaiser shows the Old Testament precedent for mission and how this led into the mission theology in the New Testament. His book tries to show that the  nature of mission in the Old Testament was centrifugal (outward going), rather than centripetal (inward drawing). The few examples he cites, most notably the prophet Jonah, are good, but even after reading the book it remains difficult to see the nation of Israel as a whole actually acting in &quot;centrifugal&quot; mission. Nonetheless he does a good job of showing how the prophets and the Abrahamic covenant set the stage for the worldwide mission that occurred after Christ's ascension. The book is a very cursory treatment of the most significant OT passages on mission, and is by no means exhaustive, but it would serve well as an introduction to Old Testament mission.	2004-05-20
US	42703596	R1M4Y1LJSSPJZ1	1573830925	306408203	Luther: Letters of Spiritual Counsel (Library of Christian Classics)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Relevant Pastoral Counsel for Today	This book is a very readable collection of Martin Luther's pastoral letters, organized topically by chapters, and chronologically within the chapters. The &quot;Letters of Spiritual Counsel&quot; give insight into the pastoral heart of Luther, and how he applied the correction of the Law and the comfort of the Gospel to the daily lives and affairs of people in his time. The reader clearly learns how Luther brought the consolation of Christ's death and resurrection to the troubled at heart. Sections that I found particularly helpful were those that dealt with people who were sick and dying, as well as with the families of the recently deceased; how he dealt with people who were troubled over their election to salvation; and his advice in matters of the civil realm. One of the best sections is his advice to clergymen, in which he gives suggestions on how a pastor should deal evangelically with various troubles in the congregation. Overall the letters show how Luther sought to turn people to Christ alone for their salvation, and how this specifically served to comfort them in a multitude of daily matters. This book would be an excellent resource for any pastor or seminary student, and can easily be read in bits and pieces since most of the letters are relatively short. Despite the difference in time periods, a modern pastor will recognize the problems that Luther approaches are familiar to us today, and much of Luther's pastoral insight has enduring value for today.	2004-03-29
US	42703596	RZGO8AAIWT5IF	0758603878	374208730	Meditations on Divine Mercy: A Classic Treasury of Devotional Prayers	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Focus your devotions and prayers on what Christ has done	This small &quot;Treasury of devotional prayers&quot; does indeed provide a richness in devotional material that is lacking in much of the popular devotional books for Christians. What makes &quot;Meditations on Divine Mercy&quot; so rich is the clear focus on how God has worked for us and is working for us in Christ Jesus. Gerhard beautifully weaves together Scriptural language into daily prayers that resonate with our own personal condition. Through these prayers, the reader's eyes are opened by the Word of God to recognize the depth of their own sinfulness, and to cling to Christ alone who died to atone for our sinfulness. The prayers lead us in a litany of thankfulness for all of God's gifts, taking time to ponder each blessing that has been given to us. And finally they alert us to our own need, and to our neighbor's need, asking God to provide for us and our neighbor. The beauty of this prayerbook does not come from empty, flowery language, but from the richness of God's own Word as it teaches us, convicts us of sin, and leads us in the paths of righteousness for His name's sake. These short prayer-meditations would be an excellent daily devotion, and one would also benefit to look up the Bible verses referenced throughout the prayers and use the prayer as a guide to meditation on those words of Scripture. This book offers a true &quot;Spirituality of the Cross&quot;, a spirituality that finds its source in the death and resurrection of Christ Jesus for our salvation!	2004-03-28
US	42703596	R2QEGUJOEYU82G	0618124934	262985220	The Best American Mystery Stories 2002 (The Best American Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Pick and Choose	This anthology of &quot;Mystery&quot; stories is a puzzling mix of genuine mysteries and several other stories that belong to other genres, as other reviewers have pointed out. Many of them would be better categorized as short dramas or action thrillers. A good chunk of the stories also are unnecessarily lewd in a way that serves no useful purpose in the story. I did, however, enjoy several of the stories, and found some to be rather humorous. Not all the ones I enjoyed fit my understanding of mystery, for example, the &quot;Championship of Nowhere&quot; and the &quot;Mule Rustlers&quot; were good non-mystery fiction. Basically this collection is not what you might expect or hope for, but it does have several redeeming stories.	2004-01-18
US	42703596	R3CHJNDA7COK2U	0452011469	627640630	HERE I STAND: A Life of Martin Luther	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A life in review	&quot;Here I Stand&quot; is a fine biography of the 16th Century Reformer Martin Luther. It encapsulates the full range of his emotions and struggles as he led the Reformation, and it also summarizes his key teachings. Bainton has a nice way of showing the progression of Martin Luther's thought, as in the earlier chapters the reader witnesses the struggle Luther underwent to free himself of the medieval Roman Catholic church's accretions to the Word of God and the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We see Luther's profound awakening to the Gospel, as he began to see in Christ the merciful and righteous God who grants salvation freely through faith. Then eventually we see the mature Luther, who has been freed of the false teachings and traditions of the medieval church. Bainton shows us Luther's boldness and courage as a reformer, and also his deep humility and his failings. This book shows us a picture of a man who was used by God to restore the church to the Word of God alone, to faith alone in Christ alone by grace alone.<br />The places where Bainton is weakest in this book is in his descriptions of how Luther understood the sacraments (baptism and communion) and how he understood the two realms of church and government. He doesn't quite explain these correctly in the Lutheran sense. But otherwise he has a helpful balance of the factors that influenced Luther and the reformation: social, political, historical, and most importantly theological factors. And the story is supplemented with personal stories showing his love for his wife and family, and his desire for a peaceful reform of the church. Above all Luther acted on the sure confidence in the Word of God as revealed in the Scriptures.	2004-01-18
US	42703596	R3UUP03TPFIZTF	0758604823	26210189	The Defense Never Rests: A Lawyer's Quest for the Gospel	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Read this book!	This is a refreshing book that explains the confessional Lutheran heritage. Parton draws the reader into the greater picture of Christendom and shows how the rest of Christianity urgently needs the courageous confession of the true Gospel of Jesus Christ that Lutheranism has always been built on. Vividly and with strong emotion, Parton describes to the reader how he and his family found their way to Lutheranism from Evangelicalism. He shows how his search for a Christ-centered church led him to Lutheranism (to his own surprise), where he found Jesus Christ crucified at the center of the church's \\"prayed, spoken, and sung confession.\\" Beautifully he describes his family's first encounter with the historic liturgy, while leaving Evangelicalism, and how stunned they were by the profoundness and reverence of the liturgy they found in the church of the Reformation. Throughout the book Parton's discussion of Lutheran liturgy and confession give the reader a thorough appreciation of the Lutheran heritage. He shows how we are, and need to remain a church that gives solid testimony to the Biblical Gospel of Jesus Christ-for the sake of an unbelieving world, for the sake of the increasingly shallow American Christianity, and for our own sake. <br />Parton also presents a \\"powerful critique of American Christianity\\" and shows why we need to undertake the apologetical and Biblical task to \\"contend for the faith\\" (Jude 3). He shows how the thoroughly Scriptural focus of the Lutheran confessions-as written in the Book of Concord-and our Christ-centered approach to theology and life, make the Lutheran Church perfectly fit for engaging in this task. We draw the essential distinction between Law and Gospel that is almost universally lacking in American Christianity, and we make clear that conversion is worked by the Holy Spirit. In other words we understand that we do nothing to accomplish our own salvation. Parton addresses many of the concerns raised by those within the Lutheran Church Missouri Synod (LCMS) who feel that apologetics (and specifically evidential apologetics) have no place in Lutheran theology. He shows how apologetics, properly used, does not claim to work conversion, but removes stumbling blocks that prevent many from even giving consideration to the Gospel. A brief treatment of such apologetics is presented in the book. <br />Another essential distinction drawn in Lutheranism is that reason functions in both kingdoms, but that in the Kingdom of God it functions ministerially (by serving), not majesterially (by judging/ruling). Here again is ample justification for why Lutheranism is apt for apologetics. We know that mankind's reason is never to be put in judgment over the Scriptures, and thus we avoid the rationalism that destroys the sacraments and other truths of Scripture. Parton draws attention to several points in the New Testament where the apostles and evangelists specifically contended for the faith by pointing to the evidence for the truth claims of Christianity. They were so convinced of the factuality of Christ's death and resurrection, that the apostle Paul was \\"so bold as to hinge the case for Christianity explicitly, and entirely, on the facticity of the Resurrection.\\" Indeed we today ought likewise to confess and defend the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus Christ as a real event that took place in history, not just some metaphorical story. For this Good News is the reason for the existence of the church and the forgiveness and eternal life that we receive. <br />If you are questioning, or have questions about the liturgy, our confessions, or about the use of apologetics in the church, I highly recommend this book for your consideration. It is also a book that I would readily give to a fellow Christian who is questioning their faith or searching for a church with Christ-centered Biblical substance. The Defense Never Rests should also encourage us to take pride in the unique and faithful confession of Christ that our church has given historically, and must continue to give. To that end, to God alone be the glory!	2004-01-18
US	42703596	R1EVN3R1ATFAZD	0743237625	798457954	Nature's Destiny: How the Laws of Biology Reveal Purpose in the Universe	Books	4	49	59	N	N	A Peculiar contribution; a worthwhile read	This book could almost be seen as a sequel to Denton's first major critique of Darwinian Evolution, \\"Evolution a Theory in Crisis.\\" In that book he devastates the Neo-Darwinian paradigm with evidence from various fields of biology, and concludes that life does appear to be designed. But then he does not follow the conclusion to a Designer, but remains a confirmed atheist (or agnostic). Apparently to resolve this peculiar stance of his, he writes the second volume, \\"Nature's Destiny\\". In it, he dives into a full-fledged purpose-driven (teleological) view of life and the universe. Or more accurately, what he proposes is a thoroughly deterministic view of life, based on the inherent physical and chemical constants in the laws of nature. While I by no means subscribe to his evolutionary conclusions regarding the evidence he propounds, I found the evidence and research he presented pointing to design to be fascinating. <br />What makes this book so peculiar is that the remarkable array of evidence he presents in the first 11 chapters is undeniably damaging to the Neo-Darwinian theories, a fact for which creationists and intelligent design advocates alike will applaud his book. Denton clearly shows how hundreds of discoveries in science have repeatedly bolstered rather than weakened the teleological view. Quite predictably, this evidence has made the evolutionists uncomfortable(see other reviews). Yet the conclusions that he draws from this evidence will undoubtedly spawn much more diverse reactions. He basically rejects the existence of God (and therefore cannot rightly be considered a true friend to creation or intelligent design), and retains evolution, albeit in a drastically altered form. His speculations are much more in line with the punctuated equilibrium theorists in this regard, but without relying on the randomness of mutations for the supposed upward drive of evolution. His rejection of God and retaining of evolution will no doubt please the hardened atheisticevolutionists on some level, but it will be interesting to see how the scientific community at large will react to this book. For the reasons I state above, almost all readers will pick and choose from this book, rather than falling directly in line with Denton's beliefs. <br />Thus where I found the true \\"meat\\" of the book to be was in the first 11 chapters, where he deals with scientific evidence pointing to design and purpose, and this is where the book excels.  Denton's discussion of water's unique fitness for life, carbon as the standout element for organic chemistry, DNA as unsurpassed among any conceivable information-storing chemical, the rejection of alternate organic chemistries or any arbitrariness in the constituents of life, and much more, presents an astounding glimpse at how delicate and finely-tuned life really is. I found the chapter \\"Homo Sapiens: Fire Maker\\" to be one of the most fascinating in the book. Granted, he does enter into several \\"hypotheticals\\" in this chapter, but he does present a remarkable analysis of why humans are uniquely suited to possess intelligence and technology. Thus he even acknowledges humankind as the crown of creation. Denton, unlike so many evolutionists today, clearly sees the fingerprint of God in creation. What is so amazing about the book is that an atheist (or agnostic?) scientist presents the objectivity of design arguments. But he emphatically turns away when it comes to identifying God as the Designer. The second half of the book, with his conclusions, is a speculative mix of philosophical and negative theological reasoning, that leads him to the false god of a mystical materialistic purpose in nature.  Based on his concluding arguments these book does not deserve 4 stars, but the overwhelming detail of evidence presented that objectively reveals design in nature, makes this book a very worthwhile read (and outweighs the latter portion of the book).	2003-11-22
US	42703596	R3F6RXXF307KM6	091847731X	804469438	Creed or Chaos?	Books	4	10	12	N	N	I'll take Creed, thank you.	Like some of the other reviewers, I found that some of the essays in this book did wander off from the main question as presented in the book's title. Particularly the last three chapter's do this, focusing more on socio-economic issues rather than on the significance of dogma or creed in the church. These essays were tangentially related, however, as Sayers pointed out the need for Christianity's influence to be pervasive in all aspects of life. The weakest chapters in this volume were, nonetheless, the 5th and 6th chapters, titled &quot;Strong Meat&quot; and &quot;Why Work?&quot; However, the remainder of the book was very well written, and enjoyable to read.<br />Sayer's primary intent was to show how Christianity collapses without dogmas or creeds. She marvelously shows how dogma is not the dusty, dull, and boring thing that modern Christians often claim, but rather, that the very excitement and drama in Christianity is in the dogma! She uses the doctrine of the incarnation in particular to illustrate this, and throughout the book she interweaves the historic Apostle's, Nicene, and Athanasian Creeds to show their profound relevance and interest to even modern humanity. The problem, she asserts, is not that the dogma is dull, but that the church has not properly taught or shown its meaning. This has created another problem, which is that most unbelievers despise Christianity without even ever understanding the truly radical nature of what it teaches: that God entered the world in human flesh. When Christianity isn't clear and creedal in what it teaches to its own, it won't be able to present a clear and vital witness of Christ to the world.<br />The best chapter of the book is the one titled &quot;Creed or Chaos?&quot; In it Dorothy Sayers affirms that &quot;it is absolutely impossible to teach Christianity without teaching Christian dogma&quot; (33), and then proceeds to list several dogmas which are especially in need of being taught on account of their being misunderstood. She states the case for dogma very well in this chapter, but makes one particularly false statement. She says that &quot;The Church of Rome alone has retained Her prestige because She puts theology in the foreground of Her teaching&quot;(33). Rome is not alone in retaining her prestige or dogma. The glaring omission  is that the confessional bodies of the Lutheran church also place theology in the foreground of their teaching. There are those in Lutheranism wandering toward Chaos (and who would do well to read this book), but the true heart of Lutheranism is a boldly creedal faith. Even though Sayers ignores the Lutheran church, it is interesting to note that in the 6th chapter, on &quot;Why Work?&quot;, she comes surprisingly close to the Lutheran understanding of what Scripture teaches regarding vocation.<br />Overall, Sayers' book issues a much-needed call to return to the orthodox creeds of Christianity, as this problem has continued and worsened in the church at large since she wrote these essays in the WWII era.	2003-11-19
US	42703596	RD6OZYWMTAQPA	0806614390	9486091	Psalms: The Prayer Book of the Bible	Books	5	372	376	N	N	Praying with Christ	In this beautiful little book, Bonhoeffer guides the Christian to the Scriptures for lessons in how to pray. He affirms that the Lord's Prayer is the primary prayer of the Christian, which he asserts contains every prayer that a Christian ought to pray. Bonhoeffer also makes a startling but wise claim that jolts us out of the narrowness of our focus in prayer: &quot;The richness of the Word of God ought to determine our prayer, not the poverty of our heart.&quot; Thus we find the book of Psalms to be a rich treasury of prayers that are part of God's inspired word, and therefore a true place to learn how God would have us pray. <br />The book proceeds to give some general background on the history and use of the Psalms as the prayer book of the Bible. In the main part of the book he presents one possible system of categorizing the Psalms according to their petitions, and also points out that they can be organized according to the petitions of the Lord's Prayer. But the most valuable part of the book, in my opinion, is how he shows us how the Psalms are to be prayed in Christ, of whom the Psalms also testify (Luke 24:44). As Bonhoeffer says, &quot;It is the incarnate Son of God, who has borne every human weakness in his own flesh, who here pours out the heart of all humanity before God, and who stands in our place and prays for us.&quot;<br />This is a fine book for the devotional/prayer life of the Christian.	2003-11-17
US	42703596	R25HX87ED3VOIE	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Turning Point of the Civil War	The Killer Angels is a fascinating portrayal of the key events of the battle at Gettysburg.  This small town in Pennsylvania was the site of the convergence of the huge forces of the Confederate and Union armies, led by Robert E. Lee and George Meade respectively.  The clash of forces here was to certainly alter the course of the Civil War, giving the Union side the upper hand.  The novel tells the story more from the perspective of the South, with focus on General James Longstreet and General Lee; but also Colonel Joshua Chamberlain from the North.  Shaara steps into the mindset of these main characters, along with a few others, and weaves a tragic, and sometimes ironic storyline.  <br />General Longstreet becomes a particularly interesting character, with his brooding, pessimistic outlook on the battle and the woefully accurate foresight which he is forced to ignore.  General Lee appears as a weary and yet determined and tremendously respected leader, who makes some fatal decisions in the battle.  Colonel Chamberlain, a pensive and intelligent character, despite being a lower ranking officer on the Union side, nonetheless plays a critical role in guarding the uttermost left flank of the Union line against Longstreet.  <br />Shaara does an excellent job of making the intense battle scenes come alive, and wisely focuses the story on the crucial points of battle.  In doing so, he inevitably leaves out the perspective of other major figures, but mostly those who seemed to play a less active role in the battle.  The numerous maps of the arrangement of the forces at Gettysburg are immensely useful for picturing the battle, and the fine storytelling makes one want to travel to the historic battle site to see where these events took place.  The novel also is a grim reminder of the tremendous casualities and pain of the war, and the emotion of fighting one's own fellow countrymen.  This book is highly recommended as informative and engaging reading.	2002-12-01
US	42703596	R3R5RN8K0D04ZW	080102210X	667301125	Golden Mouth: The Story of John ChrysostomAscetic, Preacher, Bishop	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Intriguing story of an Eastern Church Father	In this account of St. John Chrysostom's life, J.N.D. Kelly does an excellent job of gathering a thorough and balanced biography of John's rise to fame, his role as a bishop and preacher, and his subsequent deposition and exile. He details how John began his life as a humble monk with a startlingly severe lifestyle, and gradually became a deacon in Antioch, where he was to earn renown for his remarkable preaching (and hence the nickname &quot;Chrysostom&quot;, i.e. &quot;Golden Mouth&quot;).  Not long after filling that role in Antioch, John was assigned the office of bishop of Constantinople, one of the primary sees in Christianity.  His preaching was characterized by sharp denunciations of the rich and powerful, and advocacy of aid to the poor and downtrodden.  Thus he was the champion of the common people, but he developed many bitter enemies among the rulers and clergy in the government and church.  <br />  Kelly tells the story of John's relationships, the bitter controversies he was caught in, and his eventual exile in a lively manner, but without embellishing the facts.  His book is very well written from a historical perspective, but I had a few minor complaints.  First of all, since Chrysostom was primarily famous for his preaching, I was disappointed to find meager quotation from his sermons.  There were many terse references to various sermons in the book, but none of them gave any extensive examples that helped the reader to understand their popularity or controversial nature.  Instead the reader must rely on his brief paraphrasing and summarizing of the sermons' content, and the occasional excerpt.  Secondly, the evaluation of John's personality was very focused historically, but barely described John's theological viewpoints.  That would have been something of considerable interest in a biography of a Father of the Early Church.  Otherwise the book is certainly recommended, and with few exceptions the author remained objective in his treatment of the historical evidence.	2002-11-19
US	42703596	R31YCCEIJE051P	0810002132	609362803	Martin Luther and the Jewish People	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Understanding Luther	In this short, 100 pg book, Tjernagel investigates the well-known charges of anti-Semitism against the 16th century reformer, Martin Luther.  Tjernagel asserts that the point of the book is not to free Luther from blame, but neither is it to malign him as a fanatic and racist.  Rather, it is to seek to understand Luther's mindset and circumstances.  He begins by recounting Luther's attitude towards the Jews early in his life, showing clear evidence that Luther passionately desired to share the Gospel of Jesus Christ with the Jewish people; showing them the Messiah that they awaited from Old Testament times.  Martin Luther even scorned many Christians for their poor treatment of the Jews, and encouraged patience and kindness toward them.  <br />  However, Luther's charity seemed significantly less in his later years.  Tjernagel shows that Luther's infamous polemics against the Jews later in his life were neither racially motivated nor exclusive to them.  Under the heavy strain of many painful physical illnesses, threats on his life, constant debate with the Roman church, as well as poor results in evangelism to both the Jews and the German people, Luther became a much more bitter person in his latter years.  It was in this context that he began to speak against the Jews and the Roman church with such vitriol.  While we do not seek to excuse Luther for his statements, we can at least understand his mindset.  Also we know that his anger was not based on a belief of their racial inferiority (indeed he esteemed the Jews above all races because they were the chosen people of God, from whom came the Savior), but rather their rejection of Jesus Christ as the Messiah.  This is a well-written book that helps us to evaluate Luther in the context of his times, rather than our own, which would be doing an injustice to him.	2002-09-03
US	42703596	R3JEVJ92RDK6WD	1557487316	509564397	Heroes of the Faith: Fanny Crosby (1820-1915): The Hymn Writer	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Inspirational Account of Blind Hymnwriter	Not long after her birth in 1820, Fanny Crosby was blinded by the improper treatment of an eye infection by a supposed doctor.  Yet despite the distress this caused her family, little did they suspect the paths which this disability would lead their remarkable child down.  Fanny Crosby would surpass her obstacle of blindness and become a prolific poet and a compassionate servant of the Gospel of Jesus.  From her early schooling in a newly established school for the blind she amazed people all around her with her surprising knack for writing poems, earning her fame and the nickname \\"The Blind Poetess.\\"<br /> A devout Christian throughout her life, she eventually put her poetic talent toward hymn writing.  Throughout her life she composed over 9,000 hymns, although as the author points out, due to this massive output, many of the lyrics were of lower quality and sentimental.  Nonetheless, many of her better hymns were very popular in the churches of that day, and reportedly many of them led to the conversions of people who were touched by their message.  I would have enjoyed it if the author had included more of the hymn lyrics in the book, as I am unfamiliar with most of the hymns mentioned.  Of the ones included some did seem a little \\"fluffy\\" and overly sentimental, yet she still had a great impact on many people both through her hymn-writing and her caring and generous behavior.  Altogether it was a pretty interesting look into the life of a Christian woman who overcame her physical limitations to be a shining witness of the Gospel.	2002-09-02
US	42703596	R1HV1RZ0B7F68Z	0395939461	619220705	The Silmarillion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A History of Elves	This book is actually divided into 5 main sections, with the middle and main portion being the actual &quot;Quenta Silmarillion&quot; with the detailed account of Elvish lore.  The first two sections deal with the creation of Middle Earth by Illuvatar, the god of Middle Earth.  Although it is written as prose, it has a beautiful poetic quality to it.  However, from the very beginning of the book it becomes evident that if you really want to read the Silmarillion, you have to grapple with an enormous number of names and characters.  Unfortunately, although it is a testament to Tolkien's amazing creativity, he frequently gives multiple names to the characters and places in the books, all-the-more complicating the task of keeping the huge cast straight in your head.  For this reason, I found the maps in the book and the index of names at the back invaluable.  <br />  Although it certainly requires more patience, flipping back and forth from the index and maps to get a pretty firm grip on who the major characters are will greatly increase your enjoyment of the book.  Some of the best parts are in the middle with Beren and Luthien's tale, and the records of Turin's valor.  One of my personal favorites was the account of Fingolfin's challenge to combat with Morgoth.  For those looking for background info for the LOTR and Hobbit, you won't find much directly pertinent to those books until the last two sections of the book, dealing with Numenor (the great race of men) and the forging of the rings of power.  <br />Although it is chronologically prior to the Hobbit and LOTR trilogy, I would definitely recommmend reading those books first.  The Silmarillion is a difficult read (although it get much easier after the first 75 or so pages) and will be most enjoyed by dedicated fans of Tolkien's writings looking for more history of the intriguing Middle Earth.  Perhaps my only disappointment with the book is that it is such a dramatic difference in style from the action &amp; dialogue-filled Hobbit and LOTR.  However the Silmarillion has a beauty (and tragedy) of its own.	2002-09-02
US	42703596	R2S131YVR4V7SP	0570042526	75444525	Fundamental Greek Grammar	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Best used w/ good instructor!	Voelz's &quot;Fundamental Greek Grammar&quot; is a textbook definitely geared towards teaching grammar in a methodical manner.  It should not be mistaken for a reference grammar, although I have found that after using it in class for 10 weeks at the seminary, it was pretty easy to flip through it and find the information you need when working on a translation.  The book is written in a fairly technical manner, which I think would make it very difficult for a person to teach themselves Greek.  However, with a good instructor who can simplify some of the concepts, it can (along with A LOT of study) give a beginning student the basic tools he needs to begin reading and understanding the Greek language.  Oh, and one important note, this is a book for Koine Greek grammar, NOT Classical Greek grammar, although there is significant overlap (as I've been told).  Bottom line on the book is that it is a difficult text, but can be very useful if taught with an excellent teacher (as I was fortunate to have).	2002-08-31
US	42703596	R2GTPNREJ5UK4G	0687171822	705865159	001: A History of Christian Thought, Vol. 1: From the Beginnings to the Council of Chalcedon	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Useful introduction and resource	In this first volume on the development of Christian thought, Gonzalez outlines the main currents of theology and how they progressed during the first ~450 years after Christ.  He begins with an interesting look into the religious culture of the Jews and the Graeco-Romans around the time when Jesus Christ came into the world.  He moves on to describe the writings of the &quot;Apostolic Fathers,&quot; some of the oldest Christian literature written after the New Testament, and then progresses into the main stream of the book.  The main course of the book is devoted to discussing the thought of the major theologians in the first 5 centuries, and how various controversies circulated through the church.  Gonzalez explains how the church handled these issues, and the resulting theology that came from responding to various heresies.  A great deal of emphasis is placed on the development of trinitarian doctrine and the corresponding refutation of Arianism, and then the later Christological controversies enter in during the latter portion of the book.  There is certainly a great deal that the church today can learn from looking at its past, and this book offers a good overview of the main issues in Christianity during those early years.  One might find themselves surprised that some of the same issues are still discussed today, reminding us that Solomon was right when he said &quot;There is nothing new under the sun.&quot;	2002-08-31
US	42703596	RGBINILRGHSGE	0684846969	811486002	Your God Is Too Small	Books	4	15	24	N	N	Towards a Greater Picture of God	In this small book, Phillips strikes at a vital issue in today's church: the multiplicity of false conceptions of God.  The false conceptions of God that we hold are damaging to the faith and Christianity as a whole.  Phillips brings many of these inadequate conceptions of God to light in the first half of the book, which I thought was some of the most poignant writing in the book.  Too often we limit God, especially so that we can have our \\"God-in-a-box\\", which is essentially a shrunken-down God that fits OUR notions of what God is like and where He is.  This along with many other false conceptions of God which Phillips gives name, create a pseudo-god that we ourselves hardly respect, and neither do those outside the church.  And more importantly they do not reflect the true nature of God as revealed in the Bible.  <br />I was slightly disappointed in the second portion of the book where Phillips tries to open up a more full image of God.  Most of it was very well written, and I especially liked the way he pointed to Jesus Christ as the \\"focused\\" God that came to be among us and die for our sins.  However, scattered things in the latter portion of the book I disagreed with, for example, the way Phillips seemed to downplay sin somewhat.  The true ugliness and despair of OUR OWN SIN is what nailed Christ to the Cross and was the punishment Jesus bore IN OUR STEAD!  This makes the resurrection of Christ all the more joyful for sin-wearied souls, as we have the promise of forgiveness and eternal life WITH OUR SAVIOR!!!  It is important that we recognize our own sinfulness and are repentant that we may receive this great gift.  Altogether \\"Your God is Too Small\\" is a good little book for all Christians to read.	2002-08-24
US	42703596	RVJNLGM5MA9EY	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Beware of Temptation!	In a brief book comprising 31 hypothetical letters from a wise-old demon, Screwtape, to his nephew Wormwood, C.S. Lewis gathers a wide host of temptations common to our own lives, and portrays them as bits of advice from Screwtape to his nephew.   Screwtape is advising his nephew in how best to catch his prey, by various cunning means.  The young man of whom Wormwood is given charge to tempt, could easily be any one of us, and the ways that Wormwood was advised to use in numbing the man to sin are certainly recognizable to our own existence.  Two of the particularly notable things I pulled from this book were the way Screwtape suggested encouraging Flippancy and the false impression of Unselfishness in the young victim.  The former is taking serious matters too lightly by making jokes of them, which dulls our senses to their import; and the latter is the dishonesty we enter into when we disguise our irritations to &quot;seem&quot; agreeable and unselfish, all the while harboring personal resentments.  I wouldn't call this book a masterpiece, but it is well worth reading, and certainly awakens us to the need of living prayerful and watchful lives, asking for Christ's protection in our weakness and temptation, that we might remain faithful. Also, the addition of &quot;Screwtape Proposes A Toast&quot; at the end of my edition, was not nearly as interesting as the rest of the book.	2002-08-24
US	42703596	RJVDJU50TBFSM	0385292163	459752409	The Art of War	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ancient yet timeless wisdom	For those who are unfamiliar with the general principles and the theory/purpose of war, the &quot;Art of War&quot; makes an excellent short read.  The surprising thing about this book, written by a Chinese philosopher and general 2,500 years ago, is that it is just as applicable today as when in was written.  The principles Sun Tzu outlines range from simple common sense, to sage advice, and his book is even today used by militaries in studying the theory of war.  Significantly, Sun Tzu points out that the true purpose of war is to obtain peace and maintain safety, a thought that is often lost on modern society.  He also breaks down various aspects of warfare, considering the usage of spies, tactics and strategy, battlefield terrain, and the necessity of discipline.  Another nice feature of this book is the interesting anecdotes inserted by the editor James Clavell, which illustrate the various points made by Sun Tzu.	2002-08-19
US	42703596	RZV54DVGH93I9	3893972552	398003326	In the Beginning Was Information	Books	5	44	51	N	N	Information Theory: Roadblock for Evolution	In this fascinating book, the author Werner Gitt explains in detail the principle of information theory, namely defining the characteristics of information and all the observational evidence we have for the origin and formation of information.  He carefully and clearly delineates what is considered information for the purposes of the theory, and the 5-level structure of information, which includes Statistics, Syntax, Semantics, Pragmatics, and Apobetics.  It is shown that the well-known theory of information given by Shannon is an important contribution, but can only describe the lowest (statistical) level of information, while ignoring the most crucial aspects of its higher level definition.  All information, as defined by the book, has these higher level aspects, which include the structure and code (syntax); the meaning (semantics); the intended action (pragmatics); and purpose or goal (apobetics).  Of course that is an oversimplification of the concept, but Gitt does a fine job of explaining it with numerous fascinating examples both from the biological and technical realm. <BR> <BR>   Gitt shows how all attempts to generate (or simulate the generation of) information apart from a mental process have failed.  This is the most fundamental hurdle that the theory of evolution must overcome in order to claim validity as a complete explanation of the origin of life apart from the Creator or a mental source.  DNA is undeniably information, and it is coded in such an efficient and marvelous way, that it is utterly unmatched by the greatest technological advancements of today.  Even an experiment to show the formation of meaningful DNA from materialistic processes, in sufficient quantity to produce life, would still fall far short of proving this necessary step for evolution, since apart from a meaningful context of proteins and RNA to participate in the replication, transcription, and translation of the information in DNA, DNA is useless.  And as it is well known in biology, the paradox goes deeper: the proteins that are required for replication, etc are coded for BY the DNA!  The challenge of information theory to evolution can not be brushed aside, and this book does an excellent job of laying out the theory in a detailed yet understandable and compelling manner.   <br />   Gitt's book offers a fresh look at the creation and evolution debate by presenting a robust positive case for creation on the basis of the theorems and natural laws encompassed by information theory and the countless observations that have affirmed this theory.  He discuss numerous examples that have been proposed contrary to the it, and how they have failed to falsify the theory.  Gitt devotes limited time to discounting evolution, but makes reference to other writings of his that deal with it more specifically.  The purpose of the book is not so much to deconstruct evolutionary theory, but to establish by scientific theorems that all known information has a mental source, and this has yet to be disproven.  He is also unabashedly a Christian and a believer in special creation, which comes across clearly in his book, yet he rightly admits that the existence of God can not be proved.  However, he points out the consistency of the inference of a Creator with all other observations about information.  <br />  \\"In the Beginning Was Information\\" will be a very informative book not only for creationists, but evolutionists as well, due to its thorough explanation of information.   If you read this book, by all means read the appendix at the end, it contains some of the most intriguing examples in the whole book!	2002-08-19
US	42703596	R33J4JE3PI7AL9	1557487286	277277489	Heroes of the Faith: Charles Spurgeon (1834-1892)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Charles H. Spurgeon (1834-1892)	Charles Spurgeon was a fascinating man with a great gift for captivating his audiences with very direct and Christ-centered sermons.  His preaching is what gained his fame, yet through his astounding popularity he remained strikingly humble and generous.  Through simple, down-to-earth language he conveyed the sinfulness of all humanity and our desperate need for a Savior, and what a great and merciful Savior we do have in Jesus Christ.  Massive crowds thronged to hear the Gospel from him throughout his life, and the college he started produced many other young ministers to carry on the work of spreading the message of Christ's forgiveness.  <BR>   This biography of him is the only one I've read, and it was fairly good, but left something to be desired.  It really only scratched the surface on explaining his theology, and quoting his sermons so that the reader could get a feel for his great popularity.  Also, the book often gushed about how great a man he was; attention that, according to his description, Spurgeon would have preferred to be sent towards his Lord and Savior, Jesus.  I suppose what I would have found more useful was a more direct and focused look at Spurgeon himself, the content of his preaching, which reflected his belief, and not so much flowery language and peripheral aspects of his life.  It did come across clearly however that he sought his strength for ministry from God, and he resolved to &quot;know nothing but Christ crucified.&quot;	2002-08-18
US	42703596	R3AW3PC0FGZR5X	0802806414	864999995	The Pilgrim's Regress	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A journey to faith	In this insightful volume, C.S. Lewis provides a semi-autobiographical chronicle of his conversion to Christianity, and the various philosophical or emotional obstacles that he faced (or thought others might face) in coming to believe in Christ.  Lewis notes in the afterword of the book that he realizes in retrospect, that the path he followed was not necessarily as common as he originally thought.  Also he makes it clear that every situation &quot;John&quot; (the main character, likened to Lewis) encounters is not a direct reflection of Lewis' own life, but may have been included to address various issues facing people in the searching stage. <br />For those who have not read any of Lewis' writings, this may not be the best place to start.  For those who have, but aren't particularly adept at throughly analyzing and understanding allegory, like myself, it may be advantageous to read Lewis's afterword FIRST, and pay special attention to the editorial headlines across the tops of the pages.  That would contribute to understanding the gist of the allegories, which in some places are clear enough of their own nature, but elsewhere are quite obscure (as Lewis notes in the afterword).  <br />I found the sections in &quot;Claptrap&quot;, at Wisdom's house, and the discussions with the cave-hermit particularly difficult, but elsewhere the writing is fascinating, and has brilliant insights into the problems with certain philosophies.  The story itself is a little more colorful and humorous then the Pilgrims' Progress by Bunyan, which is a very clear allegory that instead follows the walk of a Christian after conversion.  This is a book that could easily be read multiple times to discover more and more depth to the story.	2002-07-12
US	42703596	R13AVI8A96JEL8	006447108X	671298565	The Last Battle	Books	4	7	12	N	N	Slightly below par ending, for an Excellent series of books	\\"The Last Battle\\", the final book in the Narnia series is a conclusive ending to a marvelous set of adventures.  In the time of greatest need and facing an encroaching fear in Narnia that Aslan has turned cruel and unloving, Eustace Scrubb and Jill Pole arrive to rescue the Narnia King Tirian from his captors.  Together they attempt to unmask the fraudulent Aslan, restore peace in the land, and rid it of invading Calormenes.  In their efforts, they discover the disillusionment of certain Narnians, especially the Dwarfs, over the existence of a real Aslan.  Then, after giving a last-stand fight, they find themselves having passed from death into eternal life in Aslan's country.  There they sadly observe the ending of the world of Narnia, but find great joy in their far superior eternal home with Aslan and all his faithful followers.  <br />Here it is necessary to point out a startling departure from Lewis' Christian imagery throughout the series.  While the allegories to Christianity abound in the Last Battle, Lewis strikes a decidedly unorthodox note, when a worshipper and follower of the evil, and false god Tash is granted entrance into Aslan's country (Lewis' analogy for heaven) because of his sincere and dedicated service to Tash.  This is clearly not reflective of Christianity, as Jesus Christ is the only way to salvation (Acts 4:12).  Further, salvation does not rest on our good intentions or sincerity, misguided or not(Eph 2:8-9), but rather on Christ's death and resurrection (purely grace) for us.  While it may be tempting to buy into a more universally inclusive plan of salvation such as described here by Lewis, the Bible offers no such promise.  Instead there is a sure promise of forgiveness and salvation for all who believe in Jesus Christ.  <br />Aside from this, the characters of \\"The Last Battle\\" are less charming or memorable than those of his other books, and the storyline is thinner.  While I would definitely recommend reading this book as the conclusion of the series, I would advise the readers to be aware of the above-stated problems.  My personal favorite of the series is the Voyage of the Dawn Treader.	2002-07-05
US	42703596	R2N7LCO5K4CA0B	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	2	14	52	N	N	The Replication Bomb(s) out	Origin of life books such as \\"River Out of Eden\\" certainly evoke strong reactions from people concerned over the issue of evolution or creation.  Therefore they require careful attention, as it may be easy to overlook faults in a theory or the presented reasoning, due to personal bias. This is why opposing sides of the creation/evolution issue would do well to engage in more frequent interchange of ideas.  As scientific theories should never be insulated from criticism (indeed the scientific method consciously attempts to falsify all proposed hypotheses), we ought to expose theories to full scrutiny, especially from opposing viewpoints.  For these important reasons, I have turned a critical eye toward some of Dawkins' \\"Darwinian View of life\\" in the \\"River Out of Eden.\\" <br /> A surprising trend I observed, was that despite Dawkins' aim to present a completely naturalistic account of life, there are several places where he undermines this very belief.  A few examples: on p.17-18 Dawkins presents a fictional story in which a scientist engineers a viral DNA sequence with the first 10 prime numbers coded into it as a hidden signal to other scientists.  Dawkins then asserts that such a sequence (a brief one at that) could not arise spontaneously; a startling assertion, considering that he does believe that the massively more complex genomes of even the very simplest forms of life arose spontaneously.  Also he frequently warns the reader against implying that the apparent design or complexity of life requires a designer. Yet, in another story he allows hypothetical radioastronmers to make such an inference of an unseen, but intelligent source for \\"patterned and information rich\\" radio signals (p 145).  DNA is precisely such a \\"patterned and information rich\\" sequence, yet Dawkins spends this entire book trying to prove that there need not be an intelligent designer for DNA!  However, a candid statement on p. 138 reveals that it really isn't possible to deny intelligent causation of life, as \\"We have no direct evidence of the replication event that initiated the proceedings [life] on this planet.  We can only infer that it must have happened because of the gathering explosion of which we are a part. (p.138)\\"  The origin of life is perhaps the most critical and weakest link in the proposed theory of evolution, and Dawkins basically calls it an inference.  Considering the recent work of Intelligent design theorist  William Demski, to provide an empirical structure for detecting actual, intended design (specified complexity as he terms it); intelligent design is a comparably strong inference that fits our knowledge of life.  <br />Also, in discussion of the popular example for design, the vertebrate eye, Dawkins shows how imperfectly \\"designed\\" or progressively poorer and simpler eyes can have a significant role in the fitness of an organism.  He calls the concept that things must be perfect if they are to work at all \\"brittle\\"(p. 70).  In his examples  of poorer and simpler eyes, and in other non-biological devices that aren't \\"brittle according to him, he makes glaring mistake.  He is correct in stating that such deficient or hobbled organs or devices are capable of functioning--however, each of these (most importantly, the biological systems/organs) has a minimum of coordinately functioning parts, without which they completely fail.  This is precisely what is explained by another ID theorist, Michael Behe, as irreducible complexity.  Yes, organs such as the eye can be fine-tuned to greater and greater precision, but even the simplest light-detecting spot of a Euglena has a significant assemblage of complex, interrelated parts.  Further, the evolutionary process of changing a light-sensitive spot of a Euglena into even a simple invertebrate eye has never been seen or demonstrated genetically or biochemically.  Computer simulations that have been designed to simulate such development (p. 80-81) weed out optically inferior \\"eyes\\", an action which allows intelligence to creep into the experiment, by the program artificially selecting better eyes; essentially guaranteeing success.  This is no way to reflect an natural, stochastic process that supposedly drove the evolution of life.  <br />This are just a few of the weaknesses in Dawkin's book that I found, and while I enjoyed Dawkins' compelling style of writing, the book just does not provide a very convincing argument for evolution.  The colorful explanations of various organisms and their behaviors made for an interesting read, but the lack of strict evidence of transitional forms of life leaves evolution standing on shaky ground.  He is adept at organizing hypothetical evolutionary lineages or speculating about how intermediate organ structures could exist, but provides scanty biological evidence of these steps actually occuring.  One of his most significant points in the book with which I will readily agree, is the weakness or uselessness of making arguments from \\"Personal Incredulity\\", which can as easily be made or used by a creationist or evolutionist, and amount to little but opinion.	2002-07-05
US	42703596	RARG8ZCSD02XT	0064471101	575376127	The Magician's Nephew	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How Narnia Became	In this, C.S. Lewis's 6th Narnia book, he comes full circle to explain the origin of the land called Narnia, and how it came to be that the wicked witch of the first book (The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe) had Narnia under her icy spell.  Again with a whole new cast of characters, Lewis takes us along the adventures of two young children from London, who go through a remarkable series of journies into other worlds.  Once again there are Christian themes underlying the story. The young boy Digory is faced with numerous choices between good and evil, his Uncle Andrew and the Queen Jadis both speak of being above the law (which Digory quickly realizes is false), and Aslan is the creator of life in Narnia.  Digory's moral dilemmas are akin to the temptation of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, where God had created a perfect world (like Aslan with Narnia).  And we also today delude ourselves into thinking we might be above the law (or certain laws don't apply to us), as did Uncle Andrew or the Queen Jadis, but in the end we find that there are consequences for our actions.  Thanks to God, He sent Jesus Christ to suffer those consequences, and that those who believe will have eternal life with Him.  Digory felt a similar burden of consequences when he realized in the book that he had brought evil into a new and perfect world.  Yet Aslan forgave as Christ forgave, and in the Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe (chronologically after the Magician's Nephew), Aslan becomes the sacrifice for wrongdoing as Christ was for us.  The storytelling in this book is wonderful, and Lewis imagines fantastic and improbable stories that are full of real truths in allegorical form.  It's also a great story about two children being swept out of there dreary lives into a great series of adventures in and out of this world.	2002-06-23
US	42703596	R2HLP37N0GWNLV	0064471063	440200388	The Horse and His Boy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	From the Outside In	This book differs from most of the other Narnia books in that it develops outside of Narnia in a very different setting.  In the far-off land of Calormen, a poor young boy is living a miserable life as an orphan.  The adventure begins as he escapes with another enslaved creature (a Talking horse from Narnia), and travels through many dangers to find his home and inadvertantly become a hero.  The cast of characters are almost entirely unfamiliar to the rest of the Chronicles, with the exceptions of the Four Pevensies and Aslan.  Nonetheless, each of the characters is as amusing and colorful as all of Lewis' others.  It seemed as if some of the humor and vocabulary might be a little beyond some younger readers, but made for some delightful humor for those who pick up on it!  It is interesting to see each of the main characters maturing in some significant way by Aslan's plan.  The Christian themes are there as always, with a false god (Tash) proving to be a powerless idol; and a character that combines attributes of the \\"Doubting Thomas\\" and Peter, the Apostles.  We also see how Aslan acts in ways that might not initially seem wise to the characters, but serve a greater purpose in the end: to teach, protect, etc.  In the same way Christ works mysteriously in our lives, sometimes bringing difficult troubles and trials that work for our good despite first appearances.  As in Romans 8:28, \\"And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose.\\"  Altogether, this is another of Lewis' excellent books, to be enjoyed as often as it is read.	2002-06-20
US	42703596	R2OFO5F32Y2Z8K	0192834002	113799572	The Pilgrim's Progress (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	The Christian Walk	In this classic work, John Bunyan paints a detailed picture of the Christian life/walk, giving true-to-life insights and experiences.  The despair, sorrows, trials and temptations that a believer may face are depicted in an allegorical manner, as well as the hope, joy, and salvation found in Jesus Christ.  The main character Christian (once named Graceless) sets out on a lifelong journey from the City of Destruction, where his family disowned him, and encounters many persons and difficulties along the way to the Celestial City (heaven).  The characters he meets are given names that reflect their mindset or what temptation they bring.  At times he stumbles and at times he perseveres, but all by the grace of God.  The second portion of the book tells of the conversion and subsequent sojourn of the wife (Christiana) and children of Christian.  The discussions of Christian in the first part and Christiana and her companions in the second part are very interesting, as they defend their faith and explain their purpose to those they meet along the way.  The book is quite different from your ordinary novel, and has many interesting words of wisdom for the Christian life.  Readers should be aware that some of the language is antiquated and has unfamiliar usages, so its a little bit of an adjustment to read.	2002-06-15
US	42703596	R2C8V5070CI83Z	0060974990	177861916	Savage Inequalities: Children in America's Schools	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Is there "liberty and justice for all" in public education?	Lining up dozens of accounts of very real and often appalling disparities in public education, Kozol makes a strong case for the urgency of change in the urban public school system.  Focusing largely on examples from East St. Louis, Chicago, New York, Washington D.C., New Jersey, and San Antonio, the author shows how students in these poor areas are drastically underserved in school systems that truly rob them of fairness in education.  Overcrowded school buildings where classes overflow into storage closets, bathrooms, and gymnasiums; dilapidated structures with leaking roofs and dysfunctional heating systems; and significant shortages of books and supplies are all common features to many of these urban public schools.  Furthermore, many children have teachers that sleep during class, ignore the students, or are so overworked that they can offer no personal attention.  These are but a few of the reasons why Kozol raises such harsh criticism against the public education system. <br />Compared with bordering suburbs, where ultramodern public schools offer exceptional programs and facilities, one has to wonder how education provided and required by the government can be so unequal.  Those who are quick to point to family problems as the source for poor results in urban education, or claim money is not the cure-all some would believe, ignore the abysmal learning conditions that urban children face.  They certainly would not tolerate those conditions for the schooling of their own children, nor would they be likely to surrender the presumably superfluous differences in per-student spending.  Certainly family problems contribute significantly to differences in a child's motivation to learn or early-childhood preparation for entering school, however this in no way means that these children should be taught under such dismal circumstances and given miniscule learning opportunities.  Kozol squarely faces many of the objections to equalizing spending on public, and shows howurban public schools (which are predominantly populated by blacks, Hispanics, or other minorities) continue to be heavily segregated and unequal-- despite Supreme Court rulings decades ago, such as Brown v. Board of Education, which ruled that segregated education was unconstitutional because it was \\"inherently unequal\\" (p. 3).  This is a startling and compelling book that should be read by anyone concerned with the present and future of our students in American public education.	2002-06-03
US	42703596	RPSL4M4L755K9	0060234954	184061428	The Silver Chair	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another superb tale!	Eustace Scrubb returns for his second adventure in Narnia in \\"The Silver Chair,\\" the first book (in the order they were written) without the Pevensie children along.  Instead he brings a schoolmate, Jill Pole.  In there assigned quest (by Aslan of-course), they are to search out and rescue the lost Prince Rilian, heir to King Caspian's Narnian throne.  Along the way they are given a trusty and humorously pessimistic guide...Puddleglum the Marsh-wiggle.  They travel past the furthest northern reaches of Narnia in to the land of giants, and eventually stumble into a vast underground world nearly oblivious to the outside!  Once again a marvelous piece of literature by C.S. Lewis, both as a work of fiction and also as containing some Christian metaphors.	2002-06-03
US	42703596	RA7IUL72L0J22	1590070585	41179279	Flight of Eagles	Books	3	1	2	N	N	My First Exposure to Jack Higgins' writing	While by no means spectacular, this book had an interesting--yet cliche--plot.  The twin brothers, son of an American WWI fighter pilot and German nurse, both are trained in their youth to become great dogfighters.  After their American father's death their mother returns to her German estate with one of the sons.  The plot develops as the two sons encounter each other on opposite sides in WWII.  The audio tapes were ok to listen to, my complaint being that the sole reader tried to modulate his voice for different characters, but was noticably inconsistent, making it difficult on occasion to know who was talking.	2002-05-29
US	42703596	R1XCCS7VW6V4PX	0064471071	671298565	The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (The Chronicles of Narnia, Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A new visitor to Narnia	Third in the series (as they were originally written), \\"The Voyage of the Dawn Treader\\" is one of my favorite books in the Narnia series.  Edmund and Lucy return to Narnia (Peter and Susan are now too old to come back) and they bring an unwelcome (and unwilling) guest. Eustace, their cousin, plays a bratty child who can't think of anything but leaving Narnia, until he undergoes a remarkable change (you'll have to read to find out!).  The three children join King Caspian at the beginning of an ocean voyage to explore the seas to the East of Narnia, and experience an exciting series of dangers and marvels.  This book has many similarities to the adventures of Ulysses in \\"The Odyssey\\" by Homer, under different circumstances.  And once again, Reepicheep proves to be the fearlessly brave mouse whose actions give him much greater credit than his size.	2002-05-29
US	42703596	R2KZH8ICLALUGI	0890512000	899147092	Creation: Facts of Life	Books	5	23	34	N	N	A great book for your first introduction to Creation!	In his calm and simple manner, Gary Parker lays out a well-written overview of the evidence for creation.  He intersperses the examination of the scientific evidence for creation with brief anecdotes about how he gradually gave up his own belief in evolution.  Parker outlines the complexities of life that are unsatisfactorily explained (if at all) by evolutionary theory.  Evidence from molecular biology, gross anatomy, genetics, mutation and selection, fossils, and geology are compared from an both evolutionary and creation standpoint.  An important feature of this book for new readers to the creation/evolution controversy is the discussion of scientific data that creationists and evolutionists agree upon, yet how certain explanations differ.  His non-aggresive approach will even allow skeptics to give fair consideration to the evidence without feeling attacked.  Parker also shows important contradictions among evolutionists that witness to the weakening of some long-held theories.  This book is a great introductory read!	2002-05-22
US	42703596	RIU4EJ2ZMG39W	0060234830	607344832	Prince Caspian	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Mighty Reepicheep!	Returning to Narnia for their second time, the children Peter, Susan, Edmund, and Lucy are surprised to find that things have drastically changed in their absence.  A wild overgrown forest and castle ruins greet them where they formerly reigned, and men have conquered Narnia, overthrowing the animals.  As Lewis continues their adventure he introduces a few new characters that will be key figures in the following books.  Among these is the most lovable and humorous character in the Chronicles of Narnia series...Reepicheep the mouse!  Brave with his rapier, the mighty mouse brings a smile to your face everytime he enters the scene.  The young Prince Caspian is also introduced and to be seen more later in the series, although his role is rather limited in the bulk of this book.  Lewis continues with the underlying Christian themes, in this book the main one being the following of Aslan by faith (just as we are called to follow Christ by faith).  While not the best of the Narnia books, \\"Prince Caspian\\" is important for its plot building and has some good fun and action.	2002-05-21
US	42703596	R3ETZL3H1DM1B8	1880582244	881989203	Not by Chance! Shattering the Modern Theory of Evolution	Books	3	24	38	N	N	Good parts...bad parts	After reading the first four chapters of this book, I must say I was fairly disappointed.  Most of the content of those chapters was some interesting but unnecessary historical background, followed by a bunch of probability calculations.  As should be evident to those familiar with the creation/evolution debate, probability arguments are very unconvincing to evolutionists.  I am not questioning the validity of Spetner's calculations, although I suspect many evolutionists would disagree with the way he construed the Neo-Darwinian theory, especially his &quot;two Neo-Darwinian assumptions&quot; in Ch. 4.  Spetner admitted his need to formulate some generous limits evolution in order to make a probability calculation at all.  One can even see in many of the negative reviews posted here, that probability arguments are ignored by evolutionists.  One main reason for this is witnessed by the reviewer who used the analogy of a car driving to a certain town by random turns; stating that the improbability of it arriving there is no obstacle since any outcome will do.  This argument clearly misses the point, as Spetner even used a similar example in the book...about winning the lottery.  Of course the probability of an individual winning is low (although dozens or even hundreds of orders of magnitude higher than the probabilities he was discussing) but there is a huge pool of possible winners (or similarly, possible town/destinations).  The point is that these biological probabilities don't have a huge pool of &quot;possible winners&quot; only a very small number of combinations will work.  In other words, the outcome is narrowly specified, whereas the car example is not specified.  <br />Aside from that a few other things were inaccurate, such as the mistaken claim that the Argument from Design is just an analogy (p.161), which has clearly been shown false by William Dembski (See his book &quot;Intelligent Design&quot; and the criterion of specified complexity).  Spetner's second proposed &quot;neo-darwinian assumption&quot; that each mutation must add a little information would probably be contested by most evolutionists, and he seems to want to limit neo-darwinism only to point mutations.  <br />That being said, the 5th-7th chapters of the book provided much more useful information.  Perhaps the most interesting and worthwhile part of the book is the discussion of random mutations that have been shown to be beneficial, yet at the cost of losing information at the genetic level.  He rightly shows that these types of mutations cannot be rightly called upon to be the sole explanation for the origin of life/information (you certainly can't build up info by losing it).  The molecular-level explanations of these commonly cited examples of evolution--the antibiotic resistance of bacteria, pesticide resistance of insects, adaptation of bacteria to new growth media, etc--I found to be quite fascinating.  His chapter 6 discussion of Richard Dawkin's work was also an excellent, albeit brief critique of his computer-driven evolutionary scenarios.  The seventh chapter provided some surprising and unusual explanations for the variation found in life, using example's like Darwin's finches. He showed some examples of research that indicated a significant role for the environment in shaping the phenotypic development of an organism, and others where controlled genetic shifts (transpositions, inversions, etc) lead to better adaptation to the environment.  These non-random changes are part of the design of an organism, not the random movements of evolution.  Spetner readily acknowledges the limits of our current knowledge in this field, and speculates that these programmed responses (both genetic and phenotypic) may tie into a use for the so-called &quot;junk DNA&quot; whose function is as yet unknown.  While this is admittedly a questionable suggestion, it could present an excellent research hypothesis, even if only to falsify it.  &quot;Not by Chance&quot; is a fair book, although readers may want to bypass or skim the first four chapters which spend much time on probability arguments that prove fruitless.	2002-05-20
US	42703596	R279QOUGWUR80H	0875522688	740712407	Women and the Word of God: A Response to Biblical Feminism	Books	5	29	35	N	N	Scholarly Evaluation of Biblical Feminism	In this insightful book, Susan Foh confronts one of the toughest issues to face the Christian church in modern times.  She directly faces some of the most difficult passages in the Old and New Testament, about a variety of issues concerning women and the church and the submission of women in the marriage relationship.  I learned a great deal from her scholarly exegesis, especially in the Old Testament passages.  She built the case for a woman's role based solely on the Scriptures, showing the foundational importance of recognizing the Bible as the inspired and infallible Word of God, and how that connects to all issues of doctrine.  Foh carefully dissects the issue, delineating the Biblical role for women in the family and in the church.  Throughout the book it will become evident to the reader that the Bible never teaches an inferiority of women, but rather full equality before God in regards to being created with man in the image of God, and having the same sinful nature and need for the Savior Jesus Christ.  The author explains that this does not mean that God has not established separate roles for men and women both in marriage and in the church.  And indeed there are guidelines set forth in the New Testament that set men apart for the role of ministry as a pastor.  Foh rightly refutes ideas that this suggests the superiority of men, bigotry of Paul the apostle, or that it is based on the abilities of the individual.  Women certainly may serve the church in many ways, and these are outlined in \\"Women and the Word of God,\\" yet God has chosen to limit the office of pastor to men. <br />Foh also shows the beautiful oneness the church has with Christ, and how the relationship of Christ to the church is our perfect model for how the husband and wife relationship in marriage was intended to be.  The submission of the wife to the husband, who is to love and respect her as his own flesh, is the pattern established by God at creation, with Adam being created first, and Eve created as the one-flesh completion of Adam, in whom he found great delight.  Abuses in the marriage relationship are certainly to be denounced by Christians, but this does not mean that we should conform to our culture by abandoning the Biblical example set forth and typified by the eternally faithful love and self-sacrifice shown by Christ to his bride, the church.  \\"Women and the Word of God\\" is an invaluable book for the church today, and should be read by those on both sides of the issue.  Foh firmly emphasizes the importance of women in service to the church and as a respected partner in marriage, while setting forth a godly and scriptural model for their lives as Christians.	2002-05-18
US	42703596	R39IWE7F0U3P7I	0064409422	915528414	The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (Full-Color Collector's Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Children's Classic that an adult can still appreciate	Years after having read the book as a child, I still enjoy reading C.S. Lewis' clever tale about four children stumbling into an enchanted world, hidden behind the mysterious wardrobe-portal in a musty old mansion.  The light reading is also distinguished by subtle humor in places, as well as thoughtful images and allegories that point to Christianity.  Altogether the book is a marvelous blend of fantastic mythical creatures and imagery, with a little heroism tossed in.	2002-05-18
US	42703596	R3J4VPH2DBI5B5	0830815813	808954524	Intelligent Design: The Bridge Between Science and Theology	Books	4	8	25	N	N	A presentation of Intelligent Design Theory and it's goals	In this volume on Intelligent Design (ID), William Demski sets forth to explain the goals and purpose of ID theory.  One of the primary goals is to show that ID is a legitimate branch of science complete with fully empirical underpinnings.  The first section of the book covers several pertinent historical issues.  The discussion of \\"signs\\" in the first chapter was not particularly illuminating, but the 2nd and 3rd chapters on naturalistic critiques of miracles and the historic failure of British Natural Theology (i.e. Paley's watchmaker design argument) are very informative.  His analysis of the weaknesses of natural theology shows how it succumbed to the Darwinian paradigm; yet the following chapters in section two present a much more stringent argument for design.  Dembski also makes the noteworthy point that scientists illegitimately insulated Darwin's theory against replacement, by defining out of science any explanation but naturalism.  Thus by default evolution becomes the only possible explanation for life, and broader scientific inquiry is stifled.  <br />In the second section of the book Demski outlines ID theory in a compelling manner, offering strict empirical grounds for identifying intelligent design.  His term for this criterion is \\"specified complexity\\" which requires that a structure under study has a certain amount of information present in an integrated and meaningful arrangement.  Consideration to false positives and false negatives are given, and Demski shows that while his criteria will not always recognize a designed structure as such, it will reliably exclude structures caused by chance or natural causes.  He also asserts that use of ID theory does not necessitate identifying the intelligent entities responsible for design, natural or supernatural, and neither does it have to answer the question of purpose.<br />The third section of the book proposes to bridge the gap between science and theology.  Here in the 7th and 8th chapter, Demski's reasoning is perhaps the weakest and unclear.  It's not that his idea lacks merit; rather he makes a series of arguments that do not seem well connected or compelling.  However, the final section of the book, the Appendix, containing objections to design and his responses to them, is tightly reasoned and well written.  Overall the book is a good introduction to design, but in several places it would be very desirable for him to provide more biological examples for his argumentation, rather than relying as heavily on analogies.  It will be interesting to see how the scientific community responds to this book; if it will continue to dodge design by artificially excluding it from the realm of investigation, if it will respond on thoroughly scientific grounds to refute it, or if it will give way to implementing these methods in research, leading to an expansive new field of knowledge.	2002-05-12
US	42703596	R2PRD73N13SM05	0830822968	273263779	How Blind Is the Watchmaker?: Nature's Design & the Limits of Naturalistic Science	Books	3	26	32	N	N	The quality of the arguments is not consistent	\\"How Blind is the Watchmaker?\\" is an attempt to show the intricate complexity of design in nature, and expose the weaknesses of the naturalistic Neo-Darwinian paradigm.  Unfortunately, the arguments vary in their consistency and ability to convince.  I agree with the editorial review that the strongest portion of the book is in the sections overviewing the investigation of the origin of life, and that in other places Broom is prone to caricature the beliefs of Darwinists.  There is a lot of interesting information presented in the book, and Broom does a good job of explaining the complexity of life, however, his arguments tend to have some holes in them.  I did expect more of a response to Richard Dawkin's book \\"The Blind Watchmaker,\\" but he did do a good, brief job of deconstructing several of Dawkin's analogies and simulations of evolution.  There are better reads available on the same topics of intelligent design and evolution, that are better thought-out and more convincing.  To name a few: \\"Darwin's God: Evolution and the Problem of Evil,\\" \\"Wedge of Truth,\\" and for a rigorous analysis of origins of life research, \\"The Mystery of Life's Origin.\\"  If you do decide to read \\"How Blind is the Watchmaker?\\", you can glean some good information, while stepping around the weaker argumentation.	2002-04-20
US	42703596	R17O1N61S9871	0802825052	376832706	The Book of the Acts (New International Commentary on the New Testament)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Readable and interesting	This commentary on Acts offers a great deal of historical background on the people, places, and events of the 1st century Christian church.  In some places it gets a little bogged down with the names of all the people, but quite often Bruce offers interesting insights into the climate of the times.  Taking the time to slow down and review some of the accounts in Acts really opens your eyes to details that are easily missed, or left out in the translation.  There could have been more discussion of theological issues in the commentary, but Bruce seemed to be content in describing historical aspects. The commentary did convey a respect for the book of Acts as the Word of God, and would be a good place for a reader to get some additional insight into Acts.	2002-04-11
US	42703596	R1L5O4DJKN3OVQ	0891075275	145017176	Piercing the Darkness	Books	3	6	8	N	N	What's your angle?	In this sequel to the book \\"This Present Darkness,\\" Peretti spins another yarn about angelic vs demonic warfare in a tiny town.  While in some ways I liked its plot better than the first book's, there were numerous minor things, when considered together, left me a little disappointed.  Basically the story is about a church school that faces a big lawsuit that threatens to ruin one teacher, create division in the church, and take away religious freedoms.  Paralleling this storyline is the woman Sally Roe, who is a \\"lost and confused\\" person, who narrowly escapes being murdered, and is now on the run from her attackers.  The story proceeds from there, eventually showing the connection between these seemingly unrelated events.  <br />From a literary angle, the story seemed a little too drawn out and dragged on at times.  Also the plot turns were mostly predictable, with a few nicely done exceptions.  Some of the characters seemed a bit stereotypical as well (as some reviewers pointed out about both books).  However, with Peretti's flair for storytelling these can easily be overlooked, and most readers should be caught up in the story and find it an enjoyable book.  <br />My main concern, however, is the perspective that these two books by Peretti take on angels and demons.  For one thing, it is clear from the Bible that angels and demons do exist, so that was fine.  However, no where that I've seen is there any evidence that angels get their power from the prayers of believers (compare to the \\"Prayer Cover\\" concept in the book). Rather than being dependent on our prayers, angels act at God's command and by His power.  Furthermore, some of the angels in Peretti's book are characterized as impetuous and fickle, traits that made them seem much less than the sinless messengers of God we read about in the Bible.  Another concern I had is the way God seems almost like a detached entity, that doesn't take action until enough prayers pester him into action.  I know that Peretti didn't intend to convey this idea, but it is implicit in his treatment of prayer in the books.  God in His grace promises to hear our prayers, and thankfully, we can have faith that He will act on our behalf despite our failings and lack of prayer.  God is certainly an active participant in our daily lives and desires to hear our prayers, but prayer is not a method for controlling Him.  As long as the reader is aware that \\"Piercing the Darkness\\" has some fanciful ideas about theology, and is just good fiction, I think it's a good read.	2002-04-01
US	42703596	R2K7I4IQ5E76N3	0570046440	225153369	Dying to Live: The Power of Forgiveness	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Christ is the hope for a dying world!	Senkbeil begins this engaging book by showing the loneliness and worry that faces us in today's world.  Written in a down-to-earth manner, Dying to Live opens with an examination of our society's desperation for life.  Our frantic lives are lived in constant pursuit of happiness, and are full of communication.  But all too often we seek happiness in materialism, and our communication is superficial, leaving us feeling empty and lonely.  Instead of this, Senkbeil points us to the often over-looked simple answer.  Christ offers forgiveness of sins, life, and salvation freely.  Rather than \\"a crutch to escape reality,\\" Christ is the eternal life present in this dying world (p.28).  <br />Pastor Senkbeil continues the book by explaining the amazing reality of Christ's coming into the world as both God and man, facing our same trials and sufferings, and enduring the punishment for the sins of all humankind at the cross.  Yet our glory and hope is in the knowledge that Jesus Christ did not remain dead, but overcame the grave and promised the same resurrection to all who believe.  Senkbeil shows us how this grace is carried to the church through the Word and Sacraments (the tangible means by which we receive God's forgiveness), which equips us to face this earthly life.<br />In the last section of the book he overviews the fellowship we have in the church and how it is centered around God's word.  This builds the way we worship, as God serves us (God's service=divine service=meaning of \\"liturgy\\").  He also shows the implications for our prayer life and for our daily life in the the world.  Overall this book points us to the comforting truth of the Gospel of Jesus Christ and His gift of forgiveness and salvation.  Dying to Live would be an excellent read for any Christian or even a non-Christian interested in learning about this hope that we have.	2002-03-25
US	42703596	R2YJ12VYAHWJ27	0529107422	155980806	Are My Prayers Falling on Deaf Ears?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	God is listening!	In the book &quot;Are My Prayers Falling on Deaf Ears?&quot;, many of the common questions about prayer are answered from a scriptural perspective.  Dr. Steinmann shows how the Bible teaches that prayer begins with &quot;God's promise of mercy toward us,&quot; and that it is not &quot;a way to manipulate God into answering our questions or solving our problems in the way we want them solved&quot;(p. 12).<br />The structure of this book is to present a situation about prayer (i.e. God doesn't seem to be listening), and then examine several scriptural examples that correlate with this situation.  Many of the prayers are taken from the book of Psalms, but other significant prayers are also covered, especially the Lord's Prayer.  Steinmann provides an interesting discussion of the petitions of the Lord's Prayer and compares the Matthew and Luke versions.  Another nice feature is that each chapter has highlighted points that are explained as you read.  <br />This book would make an excellent basis for a topical Bible study on prayer, and could be divided up by chapter or even smaller sections.  While the book provides explanations of dozens of Biblical prayers, it also offers many more examples (categorized within the chapters) that would be good for more in depth study and comparison.  All in all I found &quot;Are My Prayers Falling on Deaf Ears?&quot; to be a sound treatment of prayer that offers Biblical hints on how to shape our own prayers.	2002-03-15
US	42703596	R24U373CAJOT3A	0891077685	680647799	Postmodern Times: A Christian Guide to Contemporary Thought and Culture	Books	4	36	36	N	N	The rise and influence of postmodernism today	An important history of thought is provided in the first part of this book, which briefly outlines the transistion from Modernism to Postmodernism.  Essentially the modern era began with the Enlightenment, and claimed human reason and science could determine all truth.  Postmodernism does not have such a clearcut starting point in history, although Veith gives examples of when various stages of postmodernism began.  Postmodernism essentially abandons the modernist ideology of rationalism, and the existence of objective truths.  He then makes an important distinction between the postmodern era and postmodernISM.  He identifies postmodernism primarily as relativism, which is the philosophy that truth is relative to the individual, and therefore there are no objective truths.<br />Although few people are conscious of this belief system in today's society, it is subtly pervasive.  Veith's four part analysis of Postmodern Thought, Art, Society, and Religion ranges from interesting to startling to mildly cynical.  While I found his discussion of postmodernism to be very revealing and largely accurate, I question whether modernism is as &quot;dead&quot; as he suspects.  Perhaps the best example I see of an extant modernist philosophy is that of methodological naturalism: a necessity for evolution.  (Philip Johnson does a great job of explaining methodological naturalism in his book &quot;The Wedge of Truth).<br />However, for the most part, Veith hits the nail on the head in his diagnosis of postmodernism, especially with recognizing the trend in Christianity (but perhaps in religion in general) toward consumerism and empty spirituality (lack of truth).  At times the book is repetitive and somewhat pessimistic, yet Veith also has hope for the postmodern age. Christians can build their thinking and live their lives on the foundation of Christ, and share this with society, as  the postmodernism's self-contradictory relativism will inevitably collapse.	2002-03-01
US	42703596	R3MBUR55KL1C0H	1890626279	651439749	The Revenge of Conscience: Politics and the Fall of Man	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Journey from Self-Deception	In this exceptional work on political ethics and their connection to religion, J. Budziszewski opens with a synopsis of his own transistion from nihilism to Christianity.  Using himself as the first example, he pinpoints how we as humans are willing to overlook glaring inconsistencies in our thinking when it enables us to ignore our own corruption by sin.  This concept is illustrated by his metaphor on p.141 \\"pressing down one's conscience does not make it weak any more than pressing down a wildcat makes it docile. It only makes it violent.\\"  Through consistently ignoring our conscience, and by the desensitizing forces of our culture, (as well as a slew of other problems detailed in the book), our conscience can be turned into a weapon against ourselves.  This occurs when rationalization becomes an escape for facing the moral consequences of our sinful fallenness, and enables us to comfortably commit moral evils. <br />\\"Revenge of the Conscience\\" also makes the important distinction between the \\"two kingdoms\\" of Christian theology: the Kingdom of God and the Kingdom of the world.  Budziszewski shows that the civil government and the church have overlapping concerns, but the church should not control politics.  Rather, it should serve as a witness and source of admonition to morality.  But more importantly Christianity points beyond this fallen world to the life-changing free gift of forgiveness in Christ, which leads to eternal salvation and life in heaven.<br />The final chapter shows examples of how individuals can draw each other out of self-deception, since \\"Most defenses of moral evil reflect self-deception rather than real intellectual difficulties.  Our main task is to remove the mask from such self-deceptions and bring to the surface what people really know.  They will, of course resist.  They would rather remain in denial.\\"  (140-141)  As one of the few books which after I've finished reading, I wanted to immediately read again, I would strongly recommend this book.  It is replete with astonishing clarity of thought, and will provoke the reader to intense thought of important issues.	2002-02-28
US	42703596	R3HEBQJW2JSHLJ	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Chock-full of thought provoking statements	In this brief but excellent philosophical work, Lewis addresses the issue of moral relativism. He begins by evaluating the ideologies implicit in a few examples of English textbooks used in the schools at his time.  He shows how these ideologies do not belong in the textbooks because of their falsity and potential to creep into the thinking of the students who use them. Lewis discusses with convincing logic that there is such a thing as objective truth/values, and that this is universally inherent to humanity.  He uses the word \\"Tao\\" to collectively refer to these values, and elaborates on his intended meaning on pg. 28 of the Third Printing.  He states,<br />\\"This thing which I have called for convenience the Tao, and which others may call Natural Law or Traditional Morality or the First Principles of Practical Reason or the First Platitudes, is not one among a series of possible systems of value.  it is the sole source of all value judgements.  If it is rejected, all value is rejected.  If any value is retained, it is retained.  The effort to refute it and raise a new system of value in its place is self-contradictory.\\"<br />The appendix of the book shows a list of possible examples of this natural law, and how it extends across religion and culture.  This agrees with the Christian belief that there is a natural order/law established by God and written on the hearts of all humanity (see Jeremiah 31:33, Romans 2:14-15, Hebrews 10:16).<br />The third chapter of the book offers a startling insight into the progress of science towards \\"conquering nature.\\" Lewis shows how in the abscence of the natural law or a foundational set of morals, humankind will have found that it's supposed power over nature is really nothing but a certain amount of tyranny over other humans.  I think a modern illustration of Lewis' point is the inaccesibility of vaccines and simple medical treatments in third world countries.  Altogether \\"The Abolition of Man\\" is an excellent work that can be appreciated and enjoyed by Christians and non-Christians alike.be appreciated and enjoyed by Christians and non-Christians alike.	2002-02-12
US	42703596	R1J7VLD4UX881	0891073906	145017176	This Present Darkness	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Shedding some light on "This Present Darkness"	This work of fiction by Frank Peretti draws a picture of the underlying spiritual powers at war in this world.  He draws his inspiration from the Biblical passage Ephesians 6:12, \\"For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places.\\"  The general plot line focuses on two main characters, a pastor and a newspaperman, who live in the small town of Ashton, where corruption and deception are threatening to creep in and turn the people to new-age occultism. The plot gripped my attention, and the characters were well developed.  Clever twists in the story also kept me reading. <br />Further, the book is a good encouragement to prayer, an often underutilized aspect of Christian life.  The colorful portrayals of angels and demons is primarily speculation, but mostly harmless.  I would recommend reading \\"This Present Darkness,\\" but one should make sure to keep the Biblical perspective on angels and demons in focus.	2002-01-22
US	42703596	R38SY1HH1WXVYY	0465075096	116036272	Summer For The Gods: The Scopes Trial And America's Continuing Debate Over Science And Religion	Books	5	5	12	N	N	A Myth-Buster	As many other reviewers have noted, Summer for the Gods is an exceptional book in that it is able to show the historical context and events of the Scopes trial in an unbiased light.  Furthermore, it is evident that he undertook painstaking research to show not only the events as they actually took place, but also the highly editorialized media reports of the Monkey Trial.  This is of critical importance today, as the play/movie Inherit the Wind has heavily colored society's perception of the trial.  Inherit the Wind is best described by the original review by Time magazine, quoted by Larson on p. 243, &quot;The script wildly and unjustly caricatures the fundamentalists as vicious and narrow-minded hypocrites, and just as wildly and unjustly idealizes their opponents, as personified by Darrow.&quot; Fortunately, Larson is much more honest in his portrayal of the participants in the event, showing the good and bad sides of the defense, prosecution, Justic Raulston, the ACLU, and Scopes.  <br />While the chapters leading up to the trial are chock-full of valuable information, parts can become a bit tedious when sorting through the sea of names, from reporters to ACLU members to lawyers that did participate in the trial to politicians that shaped the mood of the era.  Nonetheless, it is the important background that precedes the fascinating course of the trial and the repercussions it had on American society and politics. It is amusing how the trial changes shape as it progresses, beginning as a planned test case on academic freedom by the ACLU with several willing participants.  It then takes on the added flavor of a publicity stunt for the town of Dayton, and much to the displeasure of the ACLU draws the attention of both Bryan and Darrow.  From there the case transformed into an odd battle that is not reducible to a few trite words of description.  As Larson repeatedly points out, the trial and outcome are not so easily summarized, so I highly recommend that you readthis book for yourself!<br />One final note...what this book fails to do, is even acknowledge that there are many legitimate SCIENTIFIC objections to evolution that are being excluded from classroom instruction.  Larson does point out that many Christians see an ironic parallel between the exclusion of evolution then and the exclusion of creation now, but he implies creation is only subjective fundamentalism, and states that organic evolution is a core theory of modern biology (p. 265). While the book is obviously a historical account and not a scientific debate of the creation-evolution issue, the above statement is an unfortunate gloss that obscures the scientific problems with the theory of evolution.	2002-01-05
US	42703596	R2C9AY47UWVXAH	0684823853	350241759	That Hideous Strength	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An Unusual Twist to end the Trilogy	While not as good Perelandra, That Hideous Strength is certainly worth reading.  Although the first ~40 pages are confusing and a little boring, the story quickly begins to pick up when the frightening designs of the N.I.C.E. are revealed.  Mark, a young sociologist at a British University is offered a higher position with N.I.C.E., a sort-of-facade organization with a dark social agenda.  Most interesting is the progression of thought by which Mark realizes his humanist or materialist presuppositions can lead to some shocking conclusions if followed through to their extreme.  Intertwined are several connected storylines that sometimes delay the suspense of various climaxes within the story.  While this was somewhat annoying, Lewis's witty writing kept me intrigued.  Overall it was interesting how Lewis wove together philosophy with fantasy, and I was amused at his reference to Tolkien's land of Numinor as a historical reality.	2001-12-25
US	42703596	R2T3CEOQGT6463	0684823829	530210334	Perelandra	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Even Better than the First!	In Perelandra, Dr. Ransom continues his interplanetary travels, this time to Venus (Perelandra).  Unlike his previous adventure, this one has him sent intentionally, on a mission.  The sights and sensations that greet Ransom on Perelandra are described with the beautiful imagery characteristic of Lewis's writings.  Floating across the Venetian seas on mobile islands, Ransom encounters one of the two human residents of this shrouded planet.  Soon after his arrival, however, a sinister force arrives on Perelandra in the form of Weston, the scientist from the previous book.  The encounters and conversations following between Weston, Ransom, and the Queen are a fascinating image of what the temptation in the Garden of Eden may have been like.  Also, the discourses given in this portion of the book are deeply thought-provoking.  For these reasons and for the excellent suspense, I highly recommend Perelandra.	2001-10-11
US	42703596	R2OBNYY9EZFXM0	0684823802	530210334	Out of the Silent Planet (Space Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Out of this world! (haha, pun intended)	Out of the Silent Planet is an interesting piece of science fiction, a genre I am beginning to enjoy.  C.S. Lewis takes us on a fascinating journey to Malacandra (Mars).  While there is very little scientific value to the book (hence fiction), the book has profound insights into the condition of humanity.  Through the adventures of Dr. Ransom, we not only imagine the intriguing world of Malacandra, but we see the contrast between a culture or world relatively ignorant of evil, selfishness, and greed with the newly entered evil accompanying Ransom.	2001-09-14
US	42703596	R2DS5IZQC40P9D	1864364432	36280555	In Six Days: Why 50 Scientists Choose to Believe in Creation	Books	4	24	38	N	N	Solid testimonies from a large array of scientific fields	Working from a young earth creation perspective, this book presents 50 essays on origins and evolution.  The essays range from scientific objections to evolution, to religious objections, to personal testimonies.  Some of my favorite essays were those by Henry Zuill, Stephen Grocott, Andrew Mcintosh, J.H. John Peet, and Werner Gitt.  Throughout the book were found several new insights into the design and beauty of nature, and the problems with evolution.  Individually, the essays were very well written, with very few exceptions.  This is an excellent resource for anyone who doubts the tenability of a young earth creation.  Unfortunately there is a fair amount of overlap in the topics of discussion raised in the different articles.  But on the upside, each author had a unique perspective to offer.	2001-09-02
US	42703596	R34XUZY7S9RHLF	1557487308	723027232	David Livingstone: Missionary and Explorer (Heroes of the Faith)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A bold servant of Christ Brings the Gospel to Africa	I found this biography to be an interesting glimpse into the life of Dr. David Livingstone. Having no prior knowledge of this Missionary to Africa, I found this to be a very informative book. With admirable strength and courage balanced with humility, all supplied by the Holy Spirit , Dr. Livingstone hiked through the wilderness of Africa, intent on showing the natives the love of Christ. By his kindness and fairness to the African tribes, and by oral preaching in their own languages, he brought the saving news of Jesus Christ to them. He helped to heal animosity between neighboring tribes, and sought to replace the horrible slave trade with honest commerce by searching out water routes to the interior of Africa. Overall, following him through his struggles and sorrows built an attitude of respect for Dr. Livingstone and his work, making for an excellent book.	2001-08-26
US	42703596	R2FZ6C1BMKGV9D	1587430118	945020759	Darwin's God: Evolution and the Problem of Evil	Books	5	24	35	N	N	Metaphysics in Science?	With precise detail, author Cornelius Hunter methodically exposes the underlying metaphysical foundation of evolution.  He begins by carefully laying out the main scientific arguments of evolution, and showing how they only &quot;prove&quot; evolution when you accept the metaphysical mindset of an evolutionist.  &quot;Darwin's God&quot; also goes further than any book I've read, to show how Darwinists use negative theological arguments to support their theory.  Unfortunately, evolutionists have been overwhelmingly successful in building on the false conception of the God of the Bible (a conception perpetuated by 18-19th century thought--discussed by Hunter in Ch's 6-7) and using it to undermine Creation.  <br />It can only be &quot;clear&quot; to an evolutionist that &quot;evolution is the only convincing interpretation of the facts&quot; when you already accept the metaphysical presuppositions of an evolutionist(consciously or unconsciously--more often the latter as Hunter show).  Therefore, the way to make progress in origins science is to openly acknowledge the presuppositions we have, both for creationists and evolutionists.  This will undoubtedly be like pulling teeth for some, but is necessary for the honest progression of science.  <br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone reading about the evolution/creation controversy.  It is a revealing insight into the way we approach both science and ultimate truths.  If this book is truly taken to heart, the changes in science may be remarkable.  Therefore it must not be ignored or misunderstood.  This book would make an excellent text for discussion in any college science, religion, or philosophy class.	2001-08-19
US	42703596	R10WN955Q5Z18Y	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent!	Ender's Game is a fascinating jump into the future where battles are waged in outer space against a deadly alien force.  Soldiers and commanders are trained from childhood, maximizing their learning abilities and taking advantage of their impressionable minds.  Ender is a childhood prodigy, bullied at school and tortured by his brother at home.  With vivid imagery we follow Ender through his difficult training and watch how he struggles to overcome each new situation he faces, with brilliant improvisation and counter-manipulation.  The climax and conclusion are equally unexpected and satisfying.	2001-08-19
US	42703596	RGBMR761XAJVI	0570032482	424103599	The Proper Distinction Between Law and Gospel	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Helps bring clarity to the Christian faith	Even though the lectures given in this book were spoken over a hundred years ago, in the 1880s, it impressed me how well they address the current state of affairs in the Christian church.  In many instances, the situations Walther describes fit exactly with today's.  Although the 39 evening lectures were originally given and directed to men in training to become pastors, I believe all Christian laypeople can greatly benefit from reading this volume. <br />The primary goal of the 25 theses laid out in the book were to clarify the two distinctive teachings of the Bible: the Law and the Gospel.  The Law, as summarized in the 10 Commandments shows our sinfulness and the punishment we deserve for violating the law.  The Gospel, however, is the joyous proclamation of Christ resurrected, and His conquering of sin and death.  In this we find our comfort as Christians, knowing that although the wages of sin is death, the gift of God is eternal life in Christ our Lord (Romans 6:23).    The significance of what Walther discusses in these theses, is that when we confuse Law and Gospel, try to separate one from the other, or only teach one of these doctrines, we invariably distort the true teaching of Scripture and lead people astray despite our intentions.  When applied to our daily study of the  Scriptures, church teaching, and other aspects of the Christian life, the distinction of Law and Gospel provides profound insight into the Bible.  Many confusing parts of the Bible, especially parts that may seem contradictory are clarified when we see the distinction of Law and Gospel.  <br />Overall, I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in a clearer understanding the teachings of the Bible.  Although the book may seem intimidating (its ~415 pages long), it is broken up into 39 lectures as I mentioned before, and each is about an hour's worth of reading.  The lectures were also given in an informal style, so it's not overly difficult reading (occasionally the English isa slightly different from today's usage since the translation isn't very recent, but it isn't archaiac by any means).  And finally, what really makes this an excellent book is that it is Christ-centered.	2001-08-16
US	42703596	R2GXY5BAOMBGQU	0788014501	961840505	The Cambrian Explosion	Books	2	28	33	N	N	A well-intentioned, but failed attempt	In the Cambrian Explosion, mechanical engineer Dr. Walter Starkey sets out to present a law-suit against evolution by examining the evidence for machine-like design in animals.  The book presents several criteria for recognizing &quot;fingerprints&quot; of design in both machines and animals, showing the vastly greater complexity in the latter.  Interesting comparisons are made of the structure, function, and operating efficiency of animals compared to machines.  The unique features of self-operation and reproduction are also highlighted.  In this aspect, the author makes a strong case for design.<br />However, in many other aspects, The Cambrian Explosion is a disappointment.  In several places, the book presents evolution in an unreasonably silly manner.  The persuasiveness of the arguments would likely have been enhanced by giving Darwinists the benefit of the doubt, or at least by not setting up &quot;straw men&quot; arguments that can easily be demolished.  For example, in describing the increase of genetic material necessary for &quot;evolving&quot; a protozoan into a human, it is proposed that billions of atoms of carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus must have miraculously floated &quot;through the air from the land, sea, and air...to go to the DNA molecule of an animal (p.159).&quot;  Certainly no evolutionist claims this is the mechanism for evolution.<br />Overall, several problems would make The Cambrian Explosion an unconvincing book to the skeptic.  Many unusual probability calculations are made throughout the book, based on sketchy assumptions with little correspondence to reality.  Descriptions of biology are often a little rough or at times inaccurate; and a chapter called &quot;The affidavits of Evolutionists&quot; seems to be more the interpretations of the author than an accurate portrayal of evolutionist's beliefs.  Furthermore, the presentation of &quot;Progressive Creation&quot; theory relies on some strange treatment of Biblicaltexts.  For these reasons, the Cambrian Explosion fails to make a persuasive case against evolution.	2001-08-11
US	42703596	RQLJ74MY6RKZP	0966816005	732790496	Tornado in a Junkyard: The Relentless Myth of Darwinism	Books	5	41	62	N	N	Well-documented resource on Creation/Evolution issues	Tornado in a Junkyard now ranks as my first recommendation to anyone interested in investigating the Creation/Evolution controversy.  Perloff thoroughly lays out the creationist argument in an approchable manner, while thoroughly documenting his resources.  I have read nearly 2 dozen books on the topic of creation and evolution, including books by evolutionists, and Tornado is the most comprehensive and interesting to read from a non-technical standpoint.  For someone looking for a rigorously scientific/technical treatment on the origin of life, I'd recommend &quot;Mysteries of Life's Origin&quot; by Thaxton, Bradley, and Olsen.  However, for an overview of the main issues I can't think of a better and more interesting book.  <br />I found the chapters about the play &quot;Inherit the Wind&quot; particularly informative, and am now much more aware of the distortions and stereotypes it perpetuated.  He also carefully clarifies important misconceptions that evolutionists have about creationists.  For example, creationists do not believe in complete fixity of species as is commonly assumed.  God established a wide range of genetic variability in the &quot;created kinds&quot; enabling variation and adaption.  This describes horizontal evolution or microevolution, which is observable and accepted by creationists.  However, the monophyletic descent (from one ancestral proto-cell to all life today) of all organisms, is macroevolution and unproven and unobserved.  Ask any evolutionist today why you don't see apes evolving into humans and fish crawling around on land, and they'll almost always give the same general answers.  For example: Either you can't observe it because it happens too slow (meaning they've moved it out of the range of testable and observable science) or they'll give an example of a speciation event, such as the standard Darwin finches (which is just microevolution, and completely acceptable to a creationist).  <br />Bottom line is, if you are close-mindedand unwilling to consider the evidence, don't bother with this book.  Since the atheist has NO CHOICE but to believe in the naturalistic origin of life and the universe, he will doggedly cling to evolution. Ultimately, the study of origins can not be divided from religion, since the a priori assumptions of any person will shape their interpretations of the evidence.  Both atheism and theism are religions, and evolution and creation are worldviews flowing from those presumptions.  If you do want to at least weigh the evidence for creation/evolution, and become better informed, I highly recommend Tornado in a Junkyard.	2001-08-08
