US	42706701	RK4PUIAP6VC13	0380818213	786241483	The Prince's Bride (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Surprisingly a great book!	I was surprised because I found the book about Thomas and Marrianne a bit trite and rather silly. This however was a deeply moving love story. And those of you that felt Jocelyn shallow and annoyingly just another pretty face - well she only was that in about the first chapter. I expected her to be all of that and more after reading about her in the other book. However,considering what happened to her - all of a sudden having to marry someone she did not know at all - and being forced to give up all of her girlhood dreams (no matter if they were silly and superficial) I thought she was quite a good sport about it from almost the first day of the marriage. She could have truly been a pain in the neck for Rand. Acutally more often than not people that are forced to marry in situations like this one or the other continues to be a pain to the other for a very long time. I loved how they decided to take it one step at a time and recognized very quickly that neither was quite as bad as they had thought. Certainly Rand was a handsome gentleman with lots of great qualities. Mostly he was kindly, funny and seemed willing to not assume Jocelyn was only a shallow pretty merinary. These two actually got to know one another and it was very romantic. I love the billard game. All in all this was a grand and glorious love story and I was more than pleased!	2005-10-12
US	42706701	RWI04QAJFMIW5	0060593318	720102693	A Fine Passion (Bastion Club)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Another incredible Laurens book!	At first I did not think the men of the Bastion Club would equal the Cynsters with passion and depth - but Jack certainly did. What a strong, powerful man he appeared to be. And certainly no ton debutant would ever corner him into marriage. I loved the tale of how he avoided the mother and daughter early on and escaped to his country estate. So he comes head on into facing off with a powerful woman Clarice - equal to himself. One might think this was too much for most men to handle. However, it takes a special kind of man to recognize strength in a woman as a good and positive thing and Jack is just that kind of man. At first she think he is one of the arrogant worthless men of the aristocracy that she wanted to escape from - boy is she wrong. Jack has been working for his country for 13 years in a highly worthy capacity and has estates all over. He not only is a worthy advisary he is the only man she finds herself remotely attracted to in years. This is a very intriguing tale - it reminds me of a long chess match with moves and counter moves taken by Jack and Clarice. Needless to say, their passion for one another jumps right off the page - you will need to sit in a cool room just to read their endless bedroom scenes. Another thing I liked about this couple is they did not pretend to play the courting game. When in London they bolding broke from tradition and Clarice stays at a hotel where discretion is key and Jack is able to slip in and out to keep their passion alive. In fact when the ton would expect a marriage proposal to come after they are seen in a passionate kiss at a ballroom garden - they both discuss it and decline to marry for the ton. Even though a few days later they are again discussing marriage because of their love for one another. Of course there is the usual intrigue of finding a traitor that comes with the Bastion Club books. It is a good solid backdrop for the love story. By fighting to clear Clarice's uncle together and for fighting to help Clarice's brothers with their lady loves - Jack and Clarice are truly a matched pair in all endevors. This is a complete book - with a great story - and most of all the passion that one comes to expect and love in a Laurens book!	2005-10-05
US	42706701	R3P2ZCSBWB5149	0804119864	842433769	The Warrior: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This was one of those books you cannot put down!!	I am a big Nicole Jordan lover and this book did not disappoint. She knows how to weave seduction, power, lust, jealousy, trust and betrayal into a book better than anyone. Ranulf was a tough warrior and he had so many many reasons to not trust highborn ladies. He had been betrayed so many times by them, even his own mothers betrayal of his father caused him years of scarring to his flesh and his sole. Many other ladies had outwordly betrayed him and he had no trust. Therefore when he is forced to take over his betrothed keep - and finally deal with Ariana, who he had been expected to marry for the last 5 years - he is actually fearful of dealing with her. He absolutley does not trust anyone and here she is the daughter of a supposed traitor to the crown. Ariana has wanted Ranulf to return to her for 5 long years. He took her heart with a rose and she waited for him to return. she has absolutely no idea the man he really is. It will take several long months for them to finally come to understand each other. Those that found this a painful read - I do not understand. This was a beautiful love story for this time period. Times were difficult then. Most men were warriors first not lovers and certainly not kind. Even though Ranulf had every reason to put Ariana in a dungeon - to beat her - to turn her out to really mistreat her. He never did. Oh he may have wounded her heart - but she willingly slept with him because she had always felt in a way she loved him. He was her fantasy hero. And as she got to know him she truly knew what despair he had in his life and all she wanted was for him to truly trust her - and oh yes love her. This was a powerful book. Yes, maybe there was some repetitiveness to it in the sense that Ranulf had several times when he kept mistrusting Ariana - and he kept schooling his heart from believing in her. However time and time again she kept proving herself to him, and when she finally takes him to meet Simon then you know that at last when Ranulf realizes the impact of what she has done - he will know he can trust her. This is one amazing book - really so much better than the usual medival - This is a book I would highly recommend!	2005-09-29
US	42706701	RX221UWEIJWXB	0743477723	732738771	One Night With a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	I want to play Wicked Whist with Gavin Byrne!!	Could there be a more sexy hero than Gavin Byrne?  I do not think so. I am always entranced by those gentleman club owners, dealing with the gamblers, the partyers and the rakes - just on the very edge of what is acceptable. Gavin did not disappoint. And how about a very seductive rake with a heart. Now that is absolutely the best of the best. This story begins immediately with Christibel and Gavin forming an alliance - even though it was pretend, that she would be his mistress at a country whist party in two weeks. Well you know the pretend part is just a matter of time. Even though Gavin says his heart is protected and he will never fall in love again - he has yet to meet anyone quite like Christabel, a widow. She is totally different from the simple married women Gavin usually has as a mistress. He calls her General Christabel because she not only is a general's daughter she is also that outspoken and for once Gavin is kept on his toes with a woman.I mean the very first time they met - she actually shot at him!  He actually finds he loves this challenge and is so very very intrigued. He needs to teach her whist for the party if they are to win the big pot. And the scene where they play wicked whist is one of the more seductively written I have recently read in historical romance. Wow the heat just sizzles! There is another very important plot to why they are teaming up to obtain some scandolous papers from the host of the whist party. This is a very clever side plot and actually very telling - whether Gavin will actually give up on the revenge he wants so desperately against his prince father - or whether the love of Christabel will win out. Gavin is absolutely written with so much depth that the scene at his estate in Bath truly had me in tears. This man is the most mysterious, the most enchanting and for sure seemed to be the most handsome of all the brothers. And even though I enjoyed all three of the Brotherhood books - nothing compares to this one. It was one of the best books I have recently read!! 10 stars!!	2005-09-25
US	42706701	R156GKG1YE6OA0	0743477715	408829674	To Pleasure a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A truly wonderful book!	This book just jumped out at me from the very beginning - the dark, brooding mysterious Lord Draker and the cool, aloof, very beautiful Regina. With his scarred face, scarred sole and reclusive ways, never would Draker think a woman of Regina's beauty and refinement ever be interested in him. He felt himself so unworthy for so many reasons. So he made himself unworthy by his remarks, dispicable attire, unkept manner and formidable temper - but Regina strikes a deal with him. She forces their courtship so they can keep an eye on the courtship of his sister and her brother. Regina's brother is a man Draker hates because he has a close relationship with his real bastard father the Prince. Draker's sister is very taken with Regina's brother and because Draker believes this match would be disaster for his sister he agrees to court Regina. Well this is absolutely the most intense courtship. They fight, they snarl, they hiss and then all of a sudden withing a week they are in each others arms and the sizzle between Draker and Regina just explodes off the pages. I cannot tell you how thoroughly I loved Draker. Yes, even with his scar he just came through as so compelling, so sexy so much a man - wow! And Regina was so perfect for him - and so willing to see beyond all of his bravado and snarliness. She demanded he become a gentleman and all of a sudden he is at Almacks shocking all of polite society. His nickname is the Dragon Viscount - and here he is shaved and cleaned up being polite at Almacks. And let us not forget the scene in the dungeon - that was truly one sexy seduction by Regina - to get him to finally realize he loved her -  This is one of the very very best of Jeffries works in my opinion. This is truly like the Beauty and the Beast and Draker just melts your heart. His heart was so unbelievably big and Regina was so deserving of his love - and he hers. I think this one is a keeper - far more compelling than the first in the series. This one will not disappointanyone!	2005-09-22
US	42706701	R22P5E3PB5EHMG	0743477707	314943593	In the Prince's Bed (The Royal Brotherhood)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good beginning to this series.	I enjoyed this book - not as much as the other series, at least not yet. There was just something about Katherine that irritated me a little. Maybe because she seemed to keep mooning over that stupid Sidney the poet. He was such a lame character and I wish she could have truly found out what he was about. I guess she had reasons to distrust Alec - maybe a little. But why really, other than Sidney no one really said anything against him or about him. It was not like so many of the true rakes we read about that have the horendous reputations. He was just a little unknown. And even though he was going after her for her money, he truly seemed to immediately like her. He really really treated her well. He was more honest than he was dishonest and yet she kept finding little things that set her off. Alec I really really liked - One had to feel badly for him. He was in such financial peril - and wanted so badly to do right by everyone. I will be curious to see how this brotherhood continues to bond - I am hoping by book three they will indeed be brothers in a true sense of feeling. I wonder if they will ever confront dear ole dad. Well good beginning - only reason for only 4 - it was just not quite the compelling emotional depth of a 5 star for me. A little light, good but not outstanding!	2005-09-19
US	42706701	R2ZJXHC803BPJ5	0743245539	718505481	White Hot	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Not bad for a contemporary!	I used to love Sandra Brown - but then she started writing books that were so short I just could not get into them at all. I picked this up because it was set in the Bayou and thought I would give her another shot on a big thick book. The plot was actaully very very good, lots of bad guys, lots of intrigue, good character build up and I could really get into this book - actually I had a hard time putting it down. Sayre was a little hard to take at times, she had suffered through her family and I guess she had reason to be suspicious of Beck. However he was just such a great guy at times it grated on my nerves the way she treated him. I could have done with a little more sizzle between the characters and when I used to read Brown I thought there was more hot scenes? I guess when one reads a mystery vs a romance that is what happens. So, although I enjoyed this one trip out of the romantic histories, I think I will now go back to my comfort zone. I am sure though that those who like Brown will love this book and 4 stars is pretty good - right?	2005-09-17
US	42706701	R2DH990E32R9XD	0553578669	857203744	To Please a Lady	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great follow-up to Outlaw!	The only reason not 5 stars is Robbies age. Since I have boys this young I have a problem -even knowing that times were different that Robbie only 18 could have been quite the man of the world, nor had so many sexual experiences. He was written to seem older, naturally so his exploits were believable to a reader, but not when I thought about it rationally. Baring that - I truly thought this was one of Johnson's better more complete love stories. Although I like her sex scenes that are hot and heavy, this book seemed to rely more on a truly intense, long term depth of caring. Roxanne had loved only once before in her life - her first husband that she had 5 children by. She was a very independent woman, and Robbie was a very commanding presence in her life. She fought this commanding way of his, but in the end it was really the kind of man she needed and wanted. He fought hard for her. I do not understand those that felt he acted immaturely - he may have been young but I thought he acted quite honorably. Actually at times it seemed that Roxanne was more the rouge - she seemed to have quite a sexual past as well - and I did not always understand why she kept throwing Robbies in his face. The political intrigue while a backdrop to the love story was interesting, for me it was just a backdrop. It was much more exciting watching the Carre brothers in action - and to see Robbie fight for the love of his young life. I really think this is a great Susan Johnson book and would be a must buy for a Johnson lover - also to follow up on the Outlaw book - which was in itself a true 5 star read!	2005-09-15
US	42706701	RBRI04I2APODA	0312937970	572850286	Too Hot to Handle	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good story - lackluster characters!	Where oh where are you Cheryl Holt - the last 2 books just have not done it for me. A little bit of the sizzle is still there but compared to the recently read, Passion by Valdez -  Too Hot to Handle was even tame in the bedroom. I will agree with those who felt disinterested in Michael and Emily. Michael had things to haunt him but he just did not seem deep or dark enough to make up for his wishy washy attitude toward things. How long does it take to settle with a mistress? And he never even told his staff to not let her back in his house. Usually rakes are commanding and strong, powerful - he seemed wimpy about everything. Alex his brother was much more real but he seemed to be living in self pitty. lots of men came back from war scarred and did not seem to be this vain and this pitiful. So both of the Farrow brothers had their problems but usually a writer can use these things and make the reader feel something for them. Both Emily and her sister seemed to care about these two in spite of the shallow way they both were treated. I guess they both had their sex appeal - well they must have because they managed to get them in bed rather quickly, especially Alex with the sister. Still the premise of the story was an interesting one - and the story moved in spite of the weak characters. Not sure why in the end  Michael felt he was the injured party when Emily left him - it is not like Michael had shown with his history a lot of reasons for Emily to believe he had not been unfaithful. And she did see him in bed with 2 women!! Another odd way this story was written. But I still wanted to finish reading. If a book is less than 3 stars I will stop reading and you will never see a written review. If you like Holt you might enjoy this book, but if you truly loved some of her hot steamy books of old, with intense characters and truly great plots, I think you will be disappointed.	2005-09-11
US	42706701	R3901CGTF310UO	0778322092	903472175	The Masquerade (de Warenne Dynasty)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	This deserves more than 5 stars!	I just finished this book and I can barely see through all the tears. Yes, this is just that kind of story. There are love stories and then there are just amazing, totally emotionally written love stories. Masquerade is so good - I am almost without words. Elizabeth loved Tyrell since he saved her life in a freak accident when she was only 10 - he was probably about 18. And she worshipped him from afar, the chubby little neighbor girl who did not stand a chance of ever ending up with her beloved hero. But fate had so many twitsts and turns for these two - and with each turn their lives get more and more intwined in each others. You sometimes want to scream and pound Tyrell for the way he treats Elizabeth flaunting her in society as his mistress, while he is engaged to another. He has to do his duty to his family, marry well and secure the coffers for his siblings and all the children. But love is a powerful emotion and there is one thing you are very certain of while you are reading this book Tyrell loves Elizabeth every bit as much as she loves him. The emotion between these two is not found in too many books. While I was reading this book - I took time out to reread parts of the Prize which I now have even more appreciation for. This family is a strong very loving family. And Devlin and his eventual love for Virginia has continued. Devlin actually might be the person in this book that actually helps Tyrell come to his senses. Elizabeth is one of those heroines you have so much empathy for - she falls in love with her prince and eventually she finds out he has loved her just as long as she has him. You will cry, you will smile I cannot believe that you will not love this book!!	2005-09-10
US	42706701	R2D0TM9YJBTYJO	0778321991	351009152	The Devil's Necklace	Books	5	8	9	N	N	I cannot praise this book enough!!	I had a feeling when I read about Ethan in the Bride book he was going to be a very compelling character. He did not disappoint. And even though he should have been just racked with dispair and revenge he still managed to have so much heart and so many feelings. I mean this man's crew, almost all of them lost their lives due to a traitor - a traitor Ethan believes is his beloved Grace's father. How unbelievalby challenging that would be for a man, and a captain. Ethan truly falls in love with Grace and she him - it is really intense. Grace understands how Ethan must set her aside because of who she is - however their mutual friends intervene and they thus become wed. Usually when the hero tries to keep his feelings in check and not fall in love with the wife you want to bash him. In this case, it was so understandable why Ethan kept fighting his feelings. When Grace overhears the former crew member calling Ethan a traitor for marrying Grace she really does understand how impossible their marriage is. There are so many heartwrenching scenes in this book. The characters from the Bride book return and are even more endearing in this second of the trilogy. The mystery of the traitor is a good one and the way it wraps around the love story of Ethan and Grace is powerful. This is one book I highly recommend - I think it would be good to read the Brides Necklace first as I found myself rereading it while I read this one, just to get a true understanding of all the players. This is one that deserves more than 5 stars!	2005-09-06
US	42706701	R25J2RZOVRDG2T	0821777750	790440204	A Season To Be Sinful	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Incredible book - I love Goodman!	When you read a book like this you really appreciate what a truly great romance book is - and why so many I have read recently fall short. Both Sheridan and Lily had so much to overcome in their lives. It is a little hard to understand why Sherry had gotten himself involved in such treacherous dealings - actually his history was even more dark than Lily's - no wonder he was able to forgive and overlook all that Lily had gone through. Their story is beautifully told and made even better by the scoundrels. For me secondary characters  can often get in the way if not written perfectly. Goodman makes these 3 just the perfect addition to this tale. They all have so much heart mixed with their mischief. And the way Sherry takes to them almost immediately shows how much heart he has too. Then there is Aunt Georgia - she was the perfect compliment to this story - just the right amount of \\"ton\\" mixed with her own mischief and compassion. You truly feel the love between Sherry and Lily and the darkness of their paths did not intrude on the hope for their future.And yes their love scenes were highly erotic and well written. I especially loved how Sherry deals with Woodbridge - that was such an intense scene - very very compelling. I was glad the bad guys seem to all get their just desserts. I only wish Goodman wrote more books more often - I absolutely love her romances!	2005-09-03
US	42706701	RZKRMDWWGMDW7	0515127213	28187231	The Courtship	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A solid 3 star - but I really think only Coulter lovers will like!	This one was just ok - actually the sex might have been one of the best parts of the book. This couple Helen and Spenser truly seemed hot for each other and I enjoy a good hot romance once in awhile so that was the good part. It kinda made one of my favorite couples seem a little goofy though Douglas and Alexandria - I don't know they seemed a little trite and simple in this book, not nearly as compelling as in their own story. The mystery of the lamp, well it just did not do much for me, thus only 3 stars. Truly if you are a Coulter lover and enjoy her historical romances you should read this to complete the picture, but perhaps if you do not enjoy her books thoroughly you might want to skip this one.	2005-08-30
US	42706701	R1EADHG7UU13BZ	1591099684	791950474	Obey!	Books	5	6	6	N	N	First Justus Roux book -won't be my last!	<br />This was just an amazing book of erotic/bondage fantasy. Tom and Anna enter the world of Master Dante's having no idea what to expect. Tom is granting his wife's wish -a hunred thousand dollar wish - and moments after they get there Tom is so very sorry. Nothing they could ever have invisioned is quite like being under the spell of Master Dante -his erotic and sometimes brutal display of love brings out emotions in both Tom and Anna that they never thought possible. I found the intensity of this book totally captivating - which i guess if one was there is exactly what would happen. Now that they are under Dante's spell would either of them ever want to leave -certainly they would never be the same!! <br />	2005-08-28
US	42706701	RZN0XZWOZR8J4	0515114499	537487360	The Wyndham Legacy (Legacy Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Almost a perfect Coulter book!	Why not 5 stars - well I have a real problem with 1st cousins marrying - I am actually surprised that Coulter does not - other books from this same period and earlier seem to not think it was a good thing. I am not a historian so it probably was ok back then but for me it is yucky! So, I have to put that completely aside in looking at the romance of Duchess and Marcus - and truly I love them as a couple. I am one that feel strongly they almost always loved each other. I think when Marcus gives her the nickname at 9 years of age, as Duchess it was even then a term of endearment. I truly think he loved her long before he realizes it later when she almost dies. He was a very manly sort of guy and he truly hated being manipulated even though it was for his own good - so the forced marriage and the forced consumation of the marriage were enough to set him in a tizzy. Also he seemed to be one always to be very vocal and quick to get his ire up. But really I don't think bothered Duchess at all - she actually loved that about him - so those who criticized that about him really are criticizing something the Duchess loved about him! In fact, as you see toward the end they often just love to tease and spar with one another so Marcus was truly never cruel in the sense that it bothered Duchess. He did however have a very strong feeling against her father and why not - that man seemed to treat everyone a tad unfairly. But certainly in the end Marcus realized how silly punishing the Duchess and himself would be futile and her father dead now would never know. I also think the Duchess always loved Marcus -that seemed totally obvious throughout! The mystery was a good one as to who was trying to kill them although since there were not a lot of characters it might seem a little obvious. The staff Badger, Maggie, Spears are a riot and Marcus truly seemed to have a wonderful mother. The American Wyndhams - well they are quite a group especially that mother! All in all I loved this bookand except for that one detail think it is an absolute winner!!	2005-08-27
US	42706701	R2P93U3RX7MMP0	0515116246	902829421	The Nightingale Legacy (Legacy Series)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Perfect - absolutely perfect - A Coulter winner!!	One of those books you can really get into - this book had everything, a great love story, suspenseful plot - which was almost impossible to figure out - and lots of very real evil characters. First off North and Caroline are two of Coulter's favorites and you can see why. They are perfect for one another, and if North was a brooder he certainly came alive and was the opposite once he got fully absorbed in Caroline. They say a loved  one can truly make a person better and she did this for North. He needed someone to love him unconditionally and boy did she - She was funny, quirky and so totally uninhibited and matched him word for word and emotion to emotion. Great great love scenes in this book too! This was a sizzler. And the evil people - there were just too many to name. Sometimes you wondered how this couple could even fall in love with so much tragedy around them. But although the evil people were many they were so varied and made the book so interesting! The fact North's 3 servants totally hated women and the whole legacy of Nightingale men and the betrayal was a new plot that I had never experienced and it was facinating. And all the killings - although I did finally suspect the villain - there did not seem to be anyone else it could be toward the end. I mostly loved how Coulter did not allow this couple to seperate or loose confidence in each other through some of the suspicious moments - that would normally send a man like North away from his wife, and then that would be the plot. Coulter however did not let North feel betrayed by Caroline - that was so important to their story because there was absolutely no reason to ever doubt Caroline's love for North. This was a true 5 star book - highly recommend this one to all readers!!	2005-08-24
US	42706701	R2TI7MKZWOWCW0	0515138975	290726069	Lyon's Gate: Bride Series	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Really wanted to rate this higher - luv Coulter novels!	I tried I really tried to rate this one higher - but I just could not. Anyone that loves Coulter will find this book readable and probably will at least enjoy Jason recovering from his self imposed excile 5 years earlier to the Americas do to the horendous situation his family had to lived through. The fact that it was NOT his sole fault just still does not seem to be drummed into his thick head though - even after Lyon's Gate. I had to reread the end of the Twins book to fully understand why Jason was so tortured - and yes it was a deep tragedy and a close call for James and Douglas, but it was Jason that had been shot and he is the only one that almost died. Corrie too would have had a difficult recovery from the shootings. But this was such a loving family I do not know why Jason continued to feel so responsible? I truly do not think a non Sherbrook reader will enjoy this book at all - there is too much family discussion and banter between the characters. At times even a Sherbrook as I am found it tedious. I think the biggest complaint I have - is just the lack of development of a real love story between Hallie and Jason. I so remember the development in earlier books like with Douglas and Alex and wow the love just jumped out from the pages. Not so with this book. I mean there were not even any real lead ups for us to understand why Jason was feeling so lusty that he left the house at nite. Come on Coulter, where in the world was the build up on either parts for the big seduction scene that Hallie's father walks in on. I assumed that lust/love was building because these two were indeed perfect for each other but Coulter just did not write it! And the confrontation between Hallie and Jason over his long standing grief/guilt was great on Hallie's part but it just did not make Jason still see the light - at least not in any depth of words written by Coulter to make us the reader feel - \\"ok, finally Jason has got it.\\" Maybe sometimes readers get tired of familiels and feel they have written enough - it is sad that this wonderful saga had to end on a low note. I always expect more from my Coulter books! Hopefully she will get into another family and get reenergized! Read this if you want to know that Jason has recovered and try to keep an open mind - it is not as bad as a 1 star but it could have been much better than a 3 - if only!	2005-08-21
US	42706701	R3C6SYFDW8XV0E	0515118362	266787572	The Valentine Legacy (Legacy Trilogy, Bk 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A winner by Coulter!	No, I would not give this a 5 just because the characters were not as intense and besotted as I like in a Coulter novel - but there is one thing I love about all Coulter novels - it is the way she intertwines the characters from all of her novels - even though they are not even part of the same series - the fact that Marcus and the Dutchess named their son Anthony Welles - that was just so touching - it is like Catherine totally feels like all of these people are all real to her and that is why so many of them seem real to us! This novel was in part not quite as compelling because of the horse racing theme - no nearly as interesting as events in Britain - and truly the mothers in this book should be banned from both families. Jesse grew on me - where as James just seemed a little stiff - I did not see them as the greatest love of all time - like I have felt in other Coutler books - especially in the Night series and Devil series. i really could have cared less about the burried treasure although I guess going back there relieved Jesse's nitemares and perhaps made James realize he loved her truly - although he did wait awhile to tell her. I would always recommend a Coulter book almost before anyone and she is almost the only author that her contempoary are as good as her historical!	2005-08-17
US	42706701	R2U0LEUDZT209K	0060006633	727772184	A Perfect Hero	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The further you read the better it got!	I'll admit the first third of this book did not totally engage me - I was annoyed at first the way Dane called her kitten - it just seemed out of character for either a highwayman or a lord. And Julianna just seemed not quite right for him at all - and when she shot him well that really seemed unexpected and unnecessary. However, as the book continued and they started to actually reveal some of themselves to each other the book started to come together quite well and by the time they actually take their lust beyond a few kisses I was very rapped up in this love story and then could not put it down. I loved how Dane totally took charge of the situation when they meet again in London and he is Lord Granville. Too many times you see similar situations drawn out because the man feels the need to keep secrets when he actually can trust the lady. Dane knew he could trust Julianna and the carriage scene was so hot and so intense - wow then the book really was really coming together! The plot of why Dane was posing as the Magpie and spying for the Crown was a little difficult to comprehend and actually not that important im my opinion. How it all came together in the end and how Dane truly showed his love for Julianna with Daphne was a touching addition. It was also great to see Sebastian and Justin again and all of them happy in their loving families. As the book concludes you feel the trilogy was indeed tied up in a happy every after knot and all three Sterling children are in love and happy in their futures.	2005-08-15
US	42706701	R2S248FO288UH5	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enchanting love story.	What more could you want - a handsome marquis, James, and a witty and very engaging companion to his aunt Agatha - Elizabeth! She needs to marry someone with money to help her with her family obligations of 2 sisters and a brother that is titled and needs to go to Eton. James comes to help his aunt find a blackmailer while pretending to be her new estate manager and he and Elizabeth have an immediate attraction. Elizabeth, however is reluctant to allow her feelings for James, the estate manager, to bloom because he would never have the necessary funds to support her family. Of course James is the Marquis of Riverdale with plenty of money to fill her every dream. Unfortunately when James's secrets are revealed Elizbeth has great difficulty dealing with his deceptions. Even though James believes he was justified in deceiving her. As deceptions go there certainly have been a lot bigger ones in many other novels so I was not totally happy with Elizabeth being quite as stubborn as she was toward the end. Fortunately their families realized this couple was meant for each other so they are not just left to their own stubborn natures to deal with their future. There is a lot of great dialog you come to expect in a Quinn book and the humor is ongoing too. For a lighter read this is a winner.	2005-08-14
US	42706701	R1HN4JJI3TE4GG	0778321754	368951372	A Lady Of Expectations	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Rather tame and boring for a Stephanie Lauren!	I have come to love the later books of Laurens much more than this earlier work. There is nothing better than the Cynster novels. This was rather tame and almost a little boring. Still I would recommend it over other books because Lauren does know how to write romance and it is fun to watch a rake like Jack Lester have to romance Sophia in the more conventional ways approved by the ton. It was also fun to see him coach Ned to finally measure up for young Clarissa. if our in the mood for a light romantic read without much sizzle of later Lauren books, nor the deeper plots of the Bastion club then you might enjoy this book!	2005-08-14
US	42706701	R29R3HG98U7EUY	0380789353	36693015	To Catch an Heiress	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good for a romantic comedy!	To be sure comedies are not my usual taste in romance. And it would have to be by the pen of J. Quinn or I would not even find it palable. I much prefer lustier tales by Jordan or Laurens. However Julia Quinn is the master of good dialog - her Bridgerton series are some of the best in historical romance and while this is not quite that caliber it still rates high. Blake Ravenscraft certainly needed something in his life. He had been living gult ridden for years over the intimely death of his fiance Marabella. By chance of mistaken idenity he meets the very formible Caroline Trent and at first one is not sure if they are destented for love or hate?? The banter between them is ongoing and at times beyond hysterical in its humor. But what  Blake needed was to be shaken from his stoney cold world and begin to laugh and feel again. It is this that makes this heart warming humorous tale so unique - you do laugh and are totallyh drawn to the love story of Blake and Caroline.	2005-08-14
US	42706701	R34OAVM6M77K8X	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This book truly is HEAVEN!!	Judith McNaught is one of those rare authors that cannot write a bad book. Her characters whether they be contemporary or historical are truly the best in romance! Ian and Elizabeth are two of my favorites. Often when a couple has so many difficulties one or the other is usually at fault in some way - not so with this couple - they behaved as one would expect, except maybe in the end when Elizabeth believed in her brother after all those months of bliss with her husband. Ian might be one of the best males in romance novels, he truly was one of those people that knows what he wants and goes after it. And the depths to which he was capable of loving was almost poetic! I love how romantically and unique this story is written. Ian and Elizabeth appear to almost fall in love not just lust rather quickly. Instead though of building on just the physical McNaught builds on the exchange of thoughts and feelings between the two and it makes for such and intense love story. There were moments towards the end of the book that I had so many tears I almost could not finish reading. And for sure the ending and where these two end up is totally perfect! And McNaught follows through and allows one more bit of dialog between the couple to totally clear the air for any potential problems in their future!It was fun to see Alex and Jordan again although Alex did frey my nerves some with her lack of trust in Ian - like Jordan was a total prince in their book?? I did not think Ian deserved Alex's mistrust!  And the epilogue was truly heaven - I love epilogues like this! If you are looking for a 100% winner of an author - read any McNaught book - each and every one is the best ever!!!	2005-08-14
US	42706701	RZ713PEQXG51B	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Red roses mean an incredible love story!!	This was a deeply moving love story! Hayley really was a unique woman - so capable, so caring, beautiful and exactly what Stephen needed! In fact the best thing that could have happened to Stephen was to almost loose his life and be resuced and saved by Hayley and her unusual family. I do not tink I would have liked the Stephen Barrett before he encountered these real people in his life. He just did not know love nor how real people relate in a family of heart! He was a true stuffed shirt of the bloody English elite. When honest to goodness love mixes with the chaos and confusion of a real family Stephen is so out of his element that he begins to become a real person too. He starts to feel for the first time with his heart -I dont think he had one before. Dealing with Winston, Grimsley and Pierre was a riot, and having a man to man talk with Hayley's brothers was priceless. And shaving to please Aunt Olivia - but mostly the tea party with little Callie these were moments you do not find in many romance book - and they made this book unique. Mostly though it was the passion and love that developed between Stephen and Hayley - it is so deep you really feel it as a reader. When Stephen leaves her you are aching as Hayley is - and when she encounters him again, and he again breaks her heart well trust me you are going to need lots of tissues to get through the end of this book. There is so much passion and love in this book - you feel it throughout. This was my first DAlesndro book but it wont be my last!	2005-08-14
US	42706701	R18YL078R62O25	0446613827	358666329	Only for a Knight (Warner Forever)	Books	3	12	21	N	N	Barely a  three star!	Perhaps Scottish romances are just not my thing - although I love Kinley McGregor books - so maybe it is just the style of writing of Welfonder. But, I just found this book very hard to get into.  There was just too much mystic talk, talk of lore and potions and fantasy for my taste. There was also too much discriptions of thoughts and feelings and not enough dialog and real action between the characters in the book. And the betrothed of Robbie was truly a strange one and I just never got into why she had such real hate for him or what her whole deal was hiding away in the tower plotting her revenge on him and then she goes with her Big Red. Very odd plot I felt. And Robbie and Juliana did seem to have a romantic connection but it was not delved into enough to my taste. The sizzle in this book was luke warm at best. I just did not see what others that rated this book so highly did. I am not sure I I will read other books by this author!	2005-08-01
US	42706701	R1OFHZPWQUULS3	0060723793	601549701	The Runaway Heiress	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Good but not the best.	For me I had trouble truly getting into this couple Thor and Dina. I am not sure if it was the fact that Thor was not a notorious rake like so many of the heros in these books. But his romantic ideas were a bit awkward at best. And Dina the country miss that did not seem to have any true interests other than keeping physically fit - well that was a new one for that era. But her being a tad naive and Thor being not the big rogue proved for a very low level of sizzle to be sure. Then there was the problem that she was so petite and he was so large and that seemed to truly bother and worry Thor. I could not quite gather how big he was - and how small she was but never had that been such a worry in any other book. They certainly met under very odd circumstances,  Dina in Scotland with 24 hrs to wed before she looses control of her inheritance and Grant in Scotland to keep his warward sister from marrying a fortune hunter. So the end result was Dina and Grant (Thor) marry. Obviously this is not the beginning of a great love match but many books have similar basis for the marriage and have a little more sizzle to what might lead up to lust or love. On the whole it was not a bad book - I finished it with no problem. But I would not say it was a real page turner or feel compelled to reread it. This was a decent book from an author that usually does a better job, especially with bedroom scenes!!	2005-07-27
US	42706701	R1D0FASNI1JJ6N	006054175X	777912160	His Every Kiss (Guilty Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Some parts of this book just rip your HEART out!!!	Dylan is probably the most tortured hero I have read about in a long time. And because of this afliction (the ringing in his ears) he really is tortured. Can anyone imagine how horrible that would be and especially for a gifted composer. Grace early on saves Dylan's life by keeping him from killing himself. and that moment Dylan never forgets. When he meets her finally a couple of years later he has to have her in his life. She is so fearful of giving her heart again, especially to another artist. Her husband was a tortured painter and he became almost insane with his extremes before he died. So when Dylan asks Grace to become his newly found daughter's governess, only desperation on her part allows her to agree. The torture this man goes through, fighting his demons, not being able to compose is excrutianting to read. And truly many writers can write joy, pain and bliss and all the other emotions but when you read the part when Dylan truly lets his daughter down by exposing the worst parts of his nightly activities well it is one of the most compelling parts of any book I have read recently. You just are racked with the pain Dylan feels at what a horrible person and father he is. I absolutely could not put this book down. It is such an emotional read and Dylan and Grace are just beautiful together. I did feel the ending was a little hurried. I think this is one book that badly needed an epilogue. Perhaps if there is a book about Ian maybe we will learn how Grace and Dylan are living on. there is no known cure I do not think even now for the ringing in ears- but I would hope in the contentment of Dylan's love for Grace he will find some peace. Wonderful book!!!	2005-07-25
US	42706701	R3F52LPV8T0ONA	0425203972	542443651	Passion	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Move over Cheryl Holt and Susan Johnson!!	Wow - finally a book title that lives up to the name - WOW - This book absolutley sizzled. It has been a long time since I have read anything quite as erotic as this but with a plot that totally lived up to the sizzle. Mark & Passion meet by chance and within minutes they are having sex - in most books that would be great for eroticism but not much in the way of a great story. Valdez manages to build from these first moments into a complex tale of honor, betrayel,lies,hate and honest to goodness love! Passion and Mark come to not just lust for one another but they for the first time are both deeply in love. And it is not to be, because of 2 hateful horrible women Mark's mother and Passion's aunt they will be denigned the right to be together. There is so much heartache during parts of this book - and you just need lots of tissues to deal. The love that Mark has for his brother Matt was so touching too. It is great to see family love between males once in awhile. This is an absolute page turner and it is not hard to understand why everyone who has reviewed it so far loves this new author. I cannot wait to read about Patience and Matthew - you just know that will be a hot one too.	2005-07-23
US	42706701	R20M5LVZ2P68FX	0451206428	215247069	Lord of my Heart	Books	4	2	2	N	N	I don't think Beverley is capable of a bad novel!!	The only thing that keep this from 5 stars is the time period - and the history is rather confusing. HOWEVER the characters are every bit as deep and as wonderful as in every other Beverley novel. She is amazing the way she writes. Aimery was so believalby torn between his Saxon and Norman roots, this his wife had such a difficult time knowing where his loyalites lied and thus she just wrongly believed she could not trust him. However Madeline wanted to trust him, and she so wanted to give into her heart, because oh my her heart really loved this man. Actually Aimery was having a more difficult time trusting Madeline because so many things prior to their marriage pointed wrongly to her being a horrible person. Slowly very slowly this couple comes together beautifully - and even though it is back in this boring, horrible time period it still is a beautiful love story. Beverly writes at the end of the book her dislike of this time period because there was so much strife and unrest - she recognizes the difficulty of having such a beautiful book written about it. But true to her great abilities she gives Aimery and Madeline - a wonderful deserving love story!!	2005-07-22
US	42706701	R2HB3GKAFJRPKA	0060541741	731721131	Guilty Pleasures (Guilty Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another winner in this series!	Since I had read The Marriage Bed first - I did not expect to like Anthony very much - what I did not realize is what a hypicrite he could be. Here is was chasitizing in Marriage Bed his brother in law Hammond for not loving and caring for his sister and then in Guilty Pleasures he fully tells his sister he has no intention of marrying for love, does not believe in love and will keep a mistress after he marries the cold Lady Sarah. Wow, does not seem to be much difference. Acutally Anthony was worse, I mean he is so caught up in being a Duke - he seems to have forgotten all about being a man. He is so cold in the beginning, so haughty - I cannot even begin to figure out what Daphne saw in him and why early on she thought she was in love with him. Thankfully - she shocks him into his first dose of reality - probably ever - and resigns her post - and then for the first time he has to deal with needing someone so badly he will do almost anything to keep her with him. Of course at first he just wants her, for her work but as he begins to really SEE her and KNOW her well then a totally new emotion actually begins to grow in Anthony and then of course this book truly has you gripped in the depths of this beginning love story. It will take awhile for Anthony to come to understand what he feels for Daphne and of course it will also take a long while before Daphne to be willing feel again for Anthony. She had realized early on that she really needed to put a wall around her heart when it came to her feelings - because Anthony was so cold. But they both finally give in and then the book really sizzles! This is my second Guhrke book and I must say - she really seems to have a way of making you love her characters, even the flawed ones. I think I will be looking for many more of her books in the future!!	2005-07-18
US	42706701	RBJZ09XGD6RZM	0505525291	749147399	Seductive Wager	Books	3	3	4	N	N	For some reason this book just didn't quite do it for me!	Kate Vareyan was  a stunningly beautiful woman and Brett Westbrook knows that he wants her the moment he sees her across the room. Her innocence and warm sensuality stir feelings in Brett that he has never quite felt before. When Kate is offered to Brett as payment for her despicable brother's gambling debts he takes on the role as her savior and protector.  Kate does not want to belong to any man and fights the union, although she is attracted to Brett.    I really wanted to love Brent and Kate. Many parts of this book are what I especially like in romance novels a high seas romance, Paris, a madame, and pirates.  But none of these intriguing elements quite worked into the plot of this book to make it all it could be.  First off the two most important moments in Kate's life she slept through (her loosing her virginity) and her marriage (she was under the influence of brandy.) I just find this not realistic and certainly not very romantic. I am not sure how Brent and Kate ever both managed to sleep through their first romantic encounter and yet they both could not help themselves.     Then of course Brent feels obligated to be Kate's protector and she of course has fallen in love with him , even though she acts like she hates him and this is at the point they marry. Just a very odd mix of events that did not ring true to a really great romance novel.  And later she is in a harem and not expected to do anything sexual yet she is one of the most beautifully woman alive.     Every so often there were several chapters, it is a long book, that were pretty good.  I did manage to finish the book. Actually  if it is anything lower than a three star book, I usually do not finish. I have enjoyed other Greenwood books but this would not be one that I would read again. Just three stars for me.	2005-07-16
US	42706701	R1WT6EDTBHMK2Y	0060774738	208784752	The Marriage Bed (Guilty Series)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Such flawed characters give such a memorable read!!	There is much to feel frustrated with as you read this Guhrke book - It is always destressing when 9 years have gone by and a couple have totally wasted them as Viola and John have. These are years one can never get back and yet you just hope that when they finally do come together they will have learned and grown and realized their mistakes. Both made serious mistakes in those nine wasted years. Viola was so naive - at 17 she just was so caught up in first love that she just was not mature enough to understand that perhaps if she had only overlooked the whys of her marriage to John that her husband might have been passionate enough to have remained faithful and not have had 9 years of mistresses because she closed the door on their lives and their bedroom. But then again John might have been to young yet too, and certainly had developed a strong pattern of loving, gambling and drinking. Maybe he would have continued his wild ways - even when he was trying desperately to court and win back his wife he still had not learned enough about himself to realize what real love was and how he needed to really and truly open up his heart. He just did not seem to realize until it was almost too late that he had been an unbelieveable cad to all of these mistresses and especially to his wife. He could not even understand why Viola had ever loved him and how could she love him now. The good part of this book is that when they both come together at the end - through even more heartache - they have finally matured enough to deal with it - and when Viola does again fall in love it is with the real John Hammond not the one she invented in her 17 year old mind. And John finally with a great deal of sole searching is capbable of loving her in return. And even though these two were not the perfect role models of the best in a romance novel - they were just so compelling and you just got so caught up in this mess of their lives that I had tears at the end of the book - and for that how can I not give 5 stars??	2005-07-16
US	42706701	R2IK76D2A2DU75	0505524872	783019995	Sweet Temptation	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Another winner for Greenwood!	This was a reread for me and if I can read a book twice it has to be good. I read somewhere that this book was introspective, and it really was for both Sara and Gavin. They spend a lot of time trying to figure out their feelings which is a good thing.    Sara Raymon suddenly is engaged to marry Lord Gavin Carlisle, the man she has loved forever. But Gavin wants no parts of this union and he is only agreeing to it in order to protect his mother. It will be a marriage in name only in Gavin's eyes. Sara intends to turn Gavin's anger into passion as she believes they can be closely felt. Since Sara was a true beauty with a gentleness that just might weaken his resolve, one kiss might force him to flee.    Sara begins being way to naive and she will really need a lot of maturity to deal with Gavin. He is a complex and thoroughly miserable person. He felt so betrayed by a cruel father, mainly the horrid way he had treated Gavin's beloved mother that Gavin had decided love could not be trusted and he would live his life free of emotional entanglements.    As Gavin is forced into marrying Sara, he truly treats her abominably on their wedding night and then he abruptly leaves her and heads home to Scotland to bury his mother.    At first Sara is distraught, but she has loved Gavin half her life and realizes this is a man to not give up on. If only she can break through and find him. Their story is one of dealing with one's past, patience, and letting go and trusting one another. Just when it appears they have finally found happiness Gavin has a relapse of trust and everything appears lost.    This was quite an emotional story. Greenwood does an excellent job at exploring Sara and Gavin's feelings and how they eventually come together is quite heartfelt. A solid four star book!	2005-07-13
US	42706701	R2MYIOKJX1MNLI	0505526468	768956402	The Captain's Caress	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A complete love story!	When I heard that Leigh was a man I was curious how  a man would go about writing a good love story...  Well this man truly knows what makes a very hot intense love story. This might be my first Leigh Greenwood book but it most certainly will not be my last.     Brent Douglas is a man's man, powerful, sexy, very amusing and not totally living his life for revenge, because he easily gives up his revenge when he quickly falls in love with his enemies intended wife. For Brent the Earl of Heatherstone, is the man he blames for his own ruined life in Scotland. When Brent learns the Earl's future wife is on a ship bound for Scotland he takes over that ship and captures Summer Ashton for his own.      Summer has led a fairly sheltered life up until now on the family plantation in the Caribbean. It is her father that has sold her to Gowan McConnel, the Scottish Earl so when she is now a captive of Brent Douglas she fights her feelings for him not wanting to be his prisoner. This is definitely the epitome of a woman constantly fighting the romantic feelings she has for her conqueror. The dialog between these two is very intense just as the love scenes are.    This is truly passion and conflict with a few surprise twists in the story to keep one turning the pages of a very great book. Neither of these two were just willy nilly characters. They both knew how to survive and they would both need these qualities to find and keep their love. The length of this book allows one to totally get involved in their heartfelt story. This was an excellent book, absolutely five stars. I can't wait to read more from this male romance writer!!	2005-07-12
US	42706701	R131WYTW2N1GUN	0060565438	924204156	Return of the Warrior (Brotherhood of the Sword, Book 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Kinley once again delivers!!	There are a few select authors that you can pick up one of their books and be asured of a wonderful read. Kinley with her brotherhood books are absolutely wonderful! Christian really was a man of mystery - cloaked in monks robes - but he did not seem to be a monk. In fact he was supposed to have a fiance somewhere - somewhere where he claimed he would never return to. But he is actually married and when Adara comes to him, hmm yes naked to make an impression, to beg him to return and be her king and husband, well this books does really start off on an interesting note. So very complex are these Brotherhood men, so fierce, and so tortured - they all had been through the worst in their lives. Can the love of a beautiful woman like Adara actually penatrate the lost sole of Christian? This is a truly heartfelt book - loaded with passion and threats to life and love. It is absolutely a wonderful love story! Cannot wait for the next book - hopefully there is another one coming!!	2005-07-10
US	42706701	R1AA1QAETAT7GU	0345461215	809982314	The Seduction of an English Scoundrel: A Novel (The Boscastles)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Slow to start - but only got better and better!	The very beautiful Lady Jane Welsham is left at the alter and publicly humiliated. Cousin of the intended groom, Grayson Boscastle, the marquess pf Sedgecroft believes since he is head of this proud family he must redeem Jane's suffered reputation. The only problem is the big secret Jane harbors that she was never intending to marry Nigel. The whole thing was a sham so he could marry another. So when Grayson begins escorting Lady Jane around town and she begins to fall in love, she cannot afford for him to learn her secret.      It started off a little slowly, and so much of the conversation between Grayson and Jane was very stiff and rather boring. The main plot was just him pretending to romance her while the ton forgot about his cousin failing to show up at the alter. Of course Jane had never wanted to marry the boring Nigel anyways. She truly seemed in over her head at first with Grayson, as he was quite a rogue.     Initially Grayson really did not seem Jane's type at all. But looks can be deceiving and truly by their third and fourth encounter they both were totally in over their heads with lust. As the plot builds the dialog picks up and they really become quite the hot couple. By the end of the book, you do feel invested in their romance. What started slowly made for a really good four star read! Great intro to a new series.	2005-07-09
US	42706701	R1XTXUSQ6T4YO3	0312999712	331910239	The Charmer (Liars Club, Book 4)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	good - but no where near the others!	Collis Tremayne and Rose Lacey had joined the training school for the Liar's Club, one of His Majesty's spy agencies. Always sparring with each other and in conflict, the agency decided to force them to work together on a mission to see if they were in fact spy worthy.    While Rose and Collis had some interesting exchanges at times, and were a great rivalry in the Liars Club they just did not seem nearly as exciting as the other couples. Perhaps it was the case they were on. All that time in the tunnels just became so very boring.       This just did not have an interesting enough plot for me. Their storyline just paled in comparison to the other three books. I hardly ever start reading another book before finishing the first, but actually picked up The Rogue, and finished it quickly and then returned to The Charmer, but still had a let down feeling.      I agree with the person that said Bradley needed another book.She just did not create quite the storyline of the others. If you like Bradley and enjoy this series you will find this acceptable enough,  but if you discovered it as an alone read,  well then I feel you will be disappointed. Just a three star book for me.	2005-07-07
US	42706701	RU1Y5OD7UD0C5	0312931158	296410691	The Rogue (Liar's Club, Book 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	So far the best in this series - 5 plus!!	Ethan Damont is a gambler, recruited by the Crown and also the French to each spy on each other. Ethan's prior claim to fame had been fleecing money from the ton and he has quite a reputation as a rouge. He was just going through life without any purpose, no real cares, no thoughts of the future, but not really that happy either. As so many of these rouges he was beginning to become bored and restless.    Lord Maywell is who the Crown wants Ethan to spy on. And as luck would have it he just happens to have a gorgeous niece, Lady Jane. This becomes such an interesting of matches. The dialog between this couple is so witty, so clever and sharp, so well done. I just loved them. Ethan and his thoughts and conversations he has with himself over patriotism, honor and what he believes and feels is such a unique storyline.    Although the love scenes are at a minimum the ones included are incredibly hot. The one in the carriage is a classic! I mean this really was a highly engaging couple. Sometimes the plots in this series kind of take over for the romance but not in this story. And oh my the secrets that are revealed are so cleverly done. I cannot give this book a high enough rating. For me it really was one of Bradley's very best. It deserves five incredible stars and it was a classic end to a incredible series.	2005-07-04
US	42706701	R1RBNBFGM76Y9N	0312931166	749137979	To Wed a Scandalous Spy (Royal Four, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable and entertaining read!	Lord Treason head of the Royal Four, who bears the codename Cobra, is in reality Nathaniel Stonewall, the Earl of Reardon. Introduced to readers first in the Regency, spy series, the Liar's Club as a man tarnished with the reputation of a traitor. It is believed he was never prosecuted because of his fancy title. Reardon does not let this deter what he believes he must continue to do for his country.<br /><br />One night though he is felled by a woman with a sling shot, Miss Willa Trent. Reardon ends up with a concussion and Willa spends the night with him trying to nurse him back to life. Her night of nursing ends the next day by being discovered by her guardian and Nathaniel ends up finding himself married to Willa.<br /><br />Willa wants this to be a real marriage but she has meets a real challenge because Reardon believes his reputation creates a situation where he can never have a family or a normal relationship. Willa believes this fine man is in deed worthy of her love and in a beautiful way love develops for this amazing couple.<br /><br />The story really encompasses their love story beautifully with some interesting plot twists thrown in that keep it all moving along nicely. What a romantic hero Nathaniel turned out to be and Willa was even more of a lady than he could have imagined. Great story, with romance, laughter and intrigue all the way through. Those who enjoy Bradley and her books will not be disappointed. A very strong four star book for me.	2005-07-02
US	42706701	R3GE96LWUVI0GY	0345480090	111700648	One Night of Sin: A Novel	Books	4	23	24	N	Y	All in all a very good read!	Alec was quite a rake - I mean being a kept man is probably reacing the very bottom even during the Regency period. I was really angry with Alec when he tried to interfere with Lizzie and Devlin because I loved them as a couple so much. I don't think I truly understood how low Alec's life was until this book - he was not the usual rake still able to live a high life - he was rock bottom broke and seemed to be in more than just a minor funk - enter Becky and it is true - sometime real love can in fact turn a rake around. When Alec meets Becky, his life has purpose, he has a chance to be a hero, to really be needed. It was wonderful watching their love bloom - I mean he was fascinated by Becky - just everything about her made him happy. The love scenes in this book sizzled - this couple truly had chemistry!!! It was great to see Lady Champion finally get her just due - she was beyond annoying. Enjoyed too Alec's friends - they could have books of their own. Would have enjoyed a little more of Alec's family at the end - those reunions are special in these series books - and Alec really had missed his family. All in all this was a super book - those who like Foely will not be disappointed!	2005-06-29
US	42706701	RS02AJX1WNGFW	0425198790	98492200	Hardly a Husband (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Would have been a 5 but for the rushed ending!	I really loved this book - this couple was just loving, fun, seemed to have had a sparring, sexually charged relationship for a long time. Jarrod has so very many reasons to really be emotionally not capable of loving or being loved. In no way did one realize from reading the other Freefellow books what a horrendous past poor Jarrod had faced. No wonder he wanted to found a little group to be able to keep feelings at bay and never marry. Thank goodness Sarah had been apart of his whole life and understood some of his trauma and absolutely loved him with her whole heart and sole. Sarah really does what so many of these ladies of the ton fail to do actually goes after what she wants on any terms. In fact she actually is expecting just a seduction and being a mistress. Jarrod is for the most part too honorable for this - although he comes pretty close. This couple sizzled - so why am I upset - the ending was just so rushed - I mean there was not even one final hot romantic scene between this couple - very very disappointing - because of all the Freefellows Jarrod and Sarah seemed to have the greatest initial connection. It was also great seeing Griff and Colin so openly in love - my how far they all have fallen - romance lives on!	2005-06-24
US	42706701	R3K9MCB50TIJOA	0425201945	786890367	Truly a Wife (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good one in this series!	Daniel really intrigued me so did Miranda. She had loved him forever and I was so taken how she was willing to do anything to protect him that night after they left the ball. She with his blood all over her beautiful dress and him barely able to walk, from his wound, and he only even came to the ball to protect Miranda from his mother's rath. These Freefellow guys had some pretty strange resolutions about their country and taking a wife and all of them eventually fall victim to true love. Miranda and Daniel were one of the more devoted to each other for a long time. The back drop of these stories is somewhat uninteresting to follow but other than that all of these are great romances!	2005-06-20
US	42706701	R1N2SRGTJR1GDQ	0425195252	557142549	Merely the Groom (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good - but not quite good enough for more stars!	For me this book dragged a little too much in the first half. Just too much repetitive discussion about the Freefellow works, too just general discussion without much intensity. Then Colin and Gillian finally marry and this couple that barely knew one another are passionate and quickly fall in love. I don't know it just did not quite have it for me. I think there should have been more focus on the end of the book and more reason to really feel the love and also more build up to the solving of the other Coin Fox mystery. Ok and I will read the others in the series but not quite more than 3 stars for me.	2005-06-18
US	42706701	R3HY8H3TOGD2TB	0425191249	399531140	Barely A Bride (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	By the end of the book I was truly in tears!	For me this book began a little light hearted, with the main character Griffin Abernathy, a freefellow, swearing at an early age with 2 other childhood friends to put country before any woman's affections, and never to marry. Unless one is forced to marry, which Griffin finds himself forced to marry by his father's demand before he goes off to war. Griffin an only child, to 2 wonderful loving parents, has little over 2 weeks to find a wife. He settles on a beautifuly unique young lady, Alyssa, and fortunately she is very taken with him. Since she believes marriage will give her, her independence  from a quirky irritating family she is thrilled with the arrangements Griffin sets forth, and the couple marries 3 days before Griffin goes off to fight Napoleon. I love the advise that Griffin's father gives his son, about romance, and making memories for his bride and also for himself. For me this is where the book really picks up in intensity - Griffin and Alyssa may only had 3 days but I dare say they made the most of them! The really clicked as a couple and by the time Griffin went off he regretted that he had to leave his wife. I don't think he quite knew he was in love, but Alyssa truly knew. For the next 14 months they wrote, and shared their lives but not really their feelings. And when Griffin is finally injured and comes home a broken man, although a hero, the story really becomes quite and emotional one! I think my only criticizm of the book, would be it needed to be about 40 pages longer - this part of the story was heart wrenching and you just know there was so much healing that needed to be done by Alyssa to bring Griffin back from his turmoil of the war. Alyssa was one of my more favorite heroines, she was so honest and true and just went for what she wanted in a loving, kind way. Griffin might never have wanted a wife, but when he chose he found himself a perfect one!!	2005-06-14
US	42706701	R1O6MU2TZZPWEB	0425200132	44695369	Night of Sin	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Darkly, compelling romance!	For a change of pace I delved into a Julia Ross book and it is so different for me. She really does write a much more mysterious romance, with suggestions about the erotic past of Lord Jack who had spent many many years travelling in the East. Such an unlikely couple Miss Anne Marsh and Wild Lord Jack and at times one is not exactly sure why this couple does in deed come together. I felt somewhat of a connection but maybe not the intensity of other more recent romantic reads. I certainly did feel the Victorian era in this book - maybe that is what Jack was so fighting by living so long in the East. I will say that the sensual scenes in this book rank higher than most - especially the one on their wedding night. I think the perfect Ross book would be one where I absolutley would feel an undeniable connection between the couple but still have the erotic sizzle of this read. I will give this book at least 4 stars though because the mystery was good and you truly had no idea how it would turn out until the end - and that is good!	2005-06-12
US	42706701	R2FUN2ZL6H0ZYQ	0743470044	548107359	The Devil to Pay	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not quite the punch as other Carlyle faves -still good!	This was kind of an off shoot of all the other Carlyle books - Sidonie being the sister of the infamous George Kemble so notoriously entertaining in several of the other books. Sidonie and Lord Devellyn are a compelling couple but I did not find them quite as endearing or involved with their story as the other favorites. Devellyn to be sure was a rake - with seemingly no redeming qualities, in fact he felt totally unlovable due to being responsible for the death of his beloved brother.And of course his father is the one that held him responsible!  Sidonie, a widow, goes out into the night disguised as a Black Angel trying to avenge poorly treated women from rakes and rougues. At first she thinks Lord Devellyn is deserving of her mistreatment but she quickly learns that he is nothing like his dreadful reputation and very quickly these two find each other captivated with one another, although it will be awhile before all truths are known. The passion is intense between them. It is fun to see the background of the infamous Kemble. This story was very very good, just not quite as good as all the others - but then several of the others I think I gave almost 10 stars. Carlyle does a great job again and it will be fun to await her next book about Devellyn's friend Alasdair - after all with Devellyn having his happy ever after - whatever will his rake pal do alone with all those women in London?	2005-06-11
US	42706701	R3TLG0OECSP53G	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The very best of all - 10 STARS!!	If you have read all of Carlyle's books in this series - you have been getting glimpses of Bentley over a period of 10 years. And for me, he always was a fascintating character - totally dispicable, thoroughly a rake and possibly without any moral fiber at all. But there was just something in each of those books which always drew me in, and yes I admit I had a soft spot for him and could hardly wait to read his story. And this was a heartfelt story of a young man who says his life went from 8 to 18 in a quick heartbeat! I cannot tell you how much I felt for Bentley reading his story. Going from woman to woman drink to drink for years upon years. Always feeling, totally unworthy, always feeling like a disappointment to his family, most especialy his brother Cam. Thank goodness he found early on the friendship of the Weydon's and was able to get some semblance of normal and healthy family love from his deealings at Chatham House. And most especially having had the opportunity to have known a loving girl like Fredricka all those years growing up and for her to see Bentley for the truly wonderful person he might actually happen to be. It was only his relationship with people like that and his close relationship with Joan that kept Bentley from perhaps totally loosing his way. The passion he felt instantly with Freddie was something he did not even realize he had been wanting his whole life and thank goodness they did marry and both actually give their life a chance. But there were so many old wounds, guilt and sorrows that Bentley would have to get free of for him to really be able to be a proper husband to Freddie. But it was so wonderful watching Bentley actually make this effort. This was absolutely the very best of all the Carlyle books. And one reviewer mentioned that there were  too many characters mentioned that unless you had read her other books you just might not understand who and why they were important. That is absolutely true - unlike Johanna Lindsey thatspends time over and over in each book letting you again be reintroduced to the families - Carlyle does not do that - you really need to try and get a handle on the order by dates as to how these books interact and read them in some kind of order to fully appreciate all the players. These people are so well developed and so important to understanding this series - it just makes you love each book so much more. I have thoroughly enjoyed all of them but I must say - nothing was a moving and so deeply intense or rewarding as Bentley's story!  Like I said 10 STARS!!	2005-06-08
US	42706701	R1TC3GP7GIRRM9	1562012614	857477600	The Comfort of Women	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Some parts good - many parts disgusting!	I enjoy some good erotic reads but too much of this book was a little beyond what I would discribe as erotic. Some of the girls fetishes were just gross - I guess people enjoy toilet acts but not me. The more erotic episodes were truly fine and worth the read but some I just had to skip over. So anytime I have to skip over too much unless it is historical cluttering up a good erotic romance - then a lower star rating for me. If you like extremes then you will be ok with this book.	2005-06-07
US	42706701	R2KZNOB5O0D64N	0743410548	329454519	Beauty Like The Night (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another winner in this Carlyle series!	Without exception this series by Carlyle I believe is one of the best written. Each and every book is so completely different and the characters so drawn out. Cam and Helene had been deeply in love as teens - fate, duty and Cam's father drove them apart and both suffered from total emptiness for the next ten years. Again fate plays apart and brings them together although both believe for different reasons that they are beyond regaining what they once felt and do not really believe a future is to be theirs. Cam might appear to be a cold, very unfeeling man - but when you see how beautifully he deals with his 6 year old daughter who because of a tragedy cannot speak - you realize the real Cam Rutledge. He really is so much more than what meets the eye. Helene is just trying to deal as a governess of her mother's whoring past and wants only to be something of value which her mother was not. As they both struggle together to help Cam's daughter recover - the are constantly fighting the resurgance of the deep love they felt before. This is such a moving, wonderful love story about two young people that never forgot \\"first love\\" <br />I absolutely loved their story. The secondary players which I had already met in other books were great additions to the plot. I would never have expected Cam's younger brother to be so much more than the young rake he appears later on. What he does for Cam at the end of the book - makes him quite the hero in my eyes. And it was interesting too, to see Cat deal with her little life before she looses her husband and meets her true love Max. The way the story occasionally goes back ten years was not a distraction at all and in Carlyle's addept hands was thoughtfully done. Really a wonderful page turner!!	2005-06-07
US	42706701	R2T5QPUAO334WB	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Another Winner for Carlyle!	I just did not expect to love this book so much. Having read about Max in other Carlyle books, I expected him to be too much into his work and he did not seem to have that much appeal - at least to the ladies. Well, was I ever wrong. The dark, smoldering,deep and mysterious policeman - magistrate who is now working in the home office - fighting crime on all levels. Max is so protective of his heart, after being played false many years before by some lady of the ton. So, Max thinks wrongly that all ton ladies have potential to be dangerous and he wants nothing from any of them. Of course when he meets Lady Catherine he is immediately struck right in the heart. He fights all of these feelings and at first insulsts her so badly one would think that would be the end before these two even begin. However, fortunately they seem to have mutual friends, and of course the powers of Nonna and her tarot cards helping things along. Catherine pursues Max just enough to keep the posibility of something real. And of course there is the dangerous case Max is working on to have both Max and Catherine in peril just enough to make the other realize how life would be without the other!  The passion between this couple is intense and absolutely one of the best parts of the book. Carlyle seems to be able to write scenes that sizzle and she gets high marks for this book. I am also pleased that this series of Carlyle seems to have so many varying people of so many different types that none of the love stories have any resemblance to the others. I loved Max and Catherine - if you like Carlyle you will not be disappointed in No True Gentleman!!	2005-06-04
US	42706701	R3NLJTX6VN2160	0671040545	973620502	My False Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	The intensity of this book really is amazing!	Perhaps for the first 75 to 100 pages I thought I was not going to really like this book. There is so much to take in. You begin with Elliot such a sweet, vulnerable and naive young man - it is so obvious that Cecily is out to trap him. Then it jumps 10 years and the Elliot that you are now reading about dealing with mistresses in such an unfeeling way?? Then comes all the debauchary and rumors and he has an 8 year old daughter from a casual affair. My goodness what could have happened to completely change Elliot from that sweet, lovestruck young lad to a complete and total rake? My heart slowly was just breaking for him - and I had absolutely no idea what happened. But he ends up - it had to be the Gods of fate - at Chatham Lodge and by chance meeting the artist Evangeline - Evie and her family are like heaven to Elliot. He is mistaken for another man who is to have his portrait painted by Evie. He pretends he is just a man Elliot Roberts (not the evil Lord Rannoch.) And the thing is you see him being the man he started out to be at the beginning of the book the sweet, loving considerate man that he would have been if so many events that he had no understanding of had not dictated his life.Evie falls for this simple man Elliot Roberts and when the truth comes out your anquish over whether she will be able to still love the dreaded Lord Rannoch will make you tear up and truly keep on reading! Oh this just becomes the most beautiful of love stories. There is much mystery and danger too but then Lord Rannoch's life had been filled with unsavory characters. He will almost loose his life because of all of the old deceptions. How interesting it was that Evie finds out truths before Elliot. I found myself just captivated by another of Liz Carlyle's intense romances. Again, I have to say if you are a Carlyle fan you will not be disappointed.	2005-06-01
US	42706701	R2YJ3F7ZE1HFOL	0671038265	535239275	A Woman Scorned (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One incredible book!!	I tried very very hard to find this book after I read A woman of Virtue - and I am so glad i did. I only wish I could have read this first - it really sets one up well to understand the dynamics of David and Jonet. Unfortunately I read Virtue first so too much was known for me. However, that in no way could spoil what was one of the best books I have read recently. I would not have expected Cole, a military, scholarly man to have so much passion. Oh yes he tried to contain it but Jonet was not to be ignored. And the slow  natural build up of these two sparring and not trusting yet one step at a time getting to know one another - it really made for such a realistic passion when it finally does occur. And please anyone that criticizes the scene some have called soft bondage - that is so totally not true. Cole had felt so seduced by Jonet each and every time and she did seem to be directing the relationship more than he - so  since he had finally decided to give in to their future he just wanted to let her know that things would not always be totally HER WAY!! And by this time was not the reticent Cole not to die for in the bedroom! I loved this book - the mystery of who the evil person was - was not obvious at all and kept that question throughout. Of course the mystery of Jonet and David was quite a major plot to the story also. And both Jonet and Cole even though they seemed so opposite truly did complete each other. She made him a less orderly man, made him exciting and finally he was able to let out all of his pent up passion! And Cole gave Jonet what she truly wanted more than anything - a normal life full of true love and of course a great father to her 2 sons. I cannot give this book enough stars - the only problem unless it is rereleased many will not be able to find it!! Keep looking though it will be worth the read!!	2005-05-30
US	42706701	RD6C285J6MMI8	0821765760	193191362	My Only Love (Zebra Splendor Historical Romance)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One of Cheryl Holt's Best!	I have read almost all that Holt has written and this being one of her earlier works I am truly impressed. Maggie was just a truly lovely heroine. She was so full of goodness, honesty and love she actually made Adam at times a loving bearable person.  Unfortunately Adam was not raised in love and he knew only duty and responsibility and hated ever aspect of his dreary life. <br />It is so evident from the first moments that Adam and Maggie fall hopelessly in love - even though at times Adam does and says such dispicable things - only Maggie could love him enough to forgive him. He is so stubborn and allows his beliefs to rule him. He refuses to attend his brothers wedding because he is marrying his mistress. Adam just cannot accept that James would lower himself. As you watch Adam totally make a mess out of his entire life, and loose all the relationships that mean anything to him and is left alone with his dreadful mother and a horrible unfeeling finace while Maggie is surrounded by all those that could have loved Adam. This is a story so full of love and pain that you cannot stop reading because you are hoping for a wonderful ending to some of the tragic and sad events that fill the last 1/4 of the book. While at times you want to scream and throttle Adam, you have to know that if wonderful Maggie could always see the good in him that eventually he would come to terms with the disaster that is his life and rectify all his errors - if it is not too late. What an emotional book this is - truly much deeper that Holts newer books, but oh what a beautiful love story!!	2005-05-27
US	42706701	R2B6Q5QORP58ZY	0553582542	376135399	Seduction In Mind	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Great sizzle a little short on plot depth!	The Braddock Black and Kuzon series were some of the best books I have ever read. It seems when Johnson just writes a lone novel without a group of books to give her characters more depth there really is little substance to them. I found this to be the case with this novel. Sam and Alex might have been really complicated interesting people but mostly we just saw them lust for each other and have no purpose other than that to their lives. Now I have no problem with the sizzle -and it can go on for many pages and I will be very happy - however in her series books we got the sizzle and plot here we just get sizzle! I will still pick up a Johnson book before others because I do love her writing but still look forward to another really great series when you can emerse yourself in some amazing characters again!!	2005-05-26
US	42706701	R2IDI14ZRZWC1K	0743470036	899097231	A Deal With the Devil	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Did not expect Giles to be so charming!	In other books I found Giles more annoying than anything, with his too much of an interest in his stepmother Cecilia and his too much of an interest in politics. He seemed boring. Aubrey had a determination that made her perfect for Giles. I think he was 1/2 in love with her just from her letters about his estate and uncle - so when he finally arrives at Castle Cardow and finds out she is beautiful too - well that sealed the deal for him. I liked the fact that he trusted her no matter what others were saying. He had grown to know her somewhat through all those letters. So often these historicals are built around the main characters not trusting each other. It is hard to feel true love between the couple when there is no trust. No matter what others were saying about Aubrey Giles would not hear it. So his good friends Max and Kem (what a duo they make!!!) go out and find out about the background of Mrs. Aubrey Montford. Thank goodness they did too because without their knowledge and stubborness the truth of Aubrey's flight from Scotland might never have been resolved. But wasn't it great that she confessed all to Giles before his friends came back with their truth. This was a great romance and finally Giles has his own true love and can quit looking too lovingly at Lady Delacourt!!	2005-05-24
US	42706701	R1U31GCTIPPX6C	0352338989	389183918	Velvet Glove	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Drop me into a Holly book - PLEASE!!	Whether it is historical or contemporary Holly is the best writer of erotica/romance. This book is no exception. You immediately get wrapped up into Audrey's life, her emotions and sensual nature are intense and from Sterling, to Tommy to Basil & Patrick you feel her sexuality and ride her emotions. Holly develops these people beyond just sexual beings and makes you care for them as people. And you really begin to understand how they think and feel. This is erotica at its best. Holly once again delievers!!	2005-05-23
US	42706701	R1X87SCYSBSSG1	0743410556	286751184	A Woman of Virtue (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good mystery & steamy romance -great combo!	I think the only reason I would not give this a 5 might be that not having read the prequal a Woman Scorned - I was in some ways confused at the beginning as to who some of the players were and how they were related. For me it is annoying to not realize how some of these books connect and I still cannot seem to find a good discription of this series and what the order is. Having said that - this story really builds into one hot romance. Cecilia does protest too much early on about her underlying fantasy about David Delacourt. Fortunately she gives in early enough in the book for the reader to enjoy many heated and very steamy lusty encounters between David and Cecilia. Wow, those gave this book extra stars just to read - I think it is interesting to see a man so absolutely taken by a woman that he looses control - now that is passion! The mystery was important to the story, as it always seem to be better when the couple in question have a purpose while they are sorting out their feelings. And the addition of Kemble and Rohan were great secondary players that really kept the dialog great and the plot truly enhanced by their part. This is my first Carlyle book - but it wont be the last, as now I have to find all the other books related to this series!!	2005-05-21
US	42706701	R18IG0GPMXB9IR	0380808323	888346369	A Scandalous Marriage	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This book really got stronger with each page!!	It started a little slow for me - I did not expect to get so drawn in as I was by these two Leah and Devon. But by the time he had birthed her baby and willed them both to live - and they did I was so caught up in Devon. What a warm, sentimental caring man this rake turned out to be. And, did I say forgiving, because he certainly had more than most men to forgive of Leah. Of course at that point you do not realize how important being a father to baby Ben is to Devon. These two people just might have been destined to be together - their families at odd for years - and this baby brings them together. This really is a several hanky book by the end. Leah and Devon are a special couple and you really do feel their passion and their love!!	2005-05-19
US	42706701	R1I4174QLCT7NO	0380400480	822913798	A Pirate's Love	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Much better than many of the reviews given!!	First off I happen to love Johanna Lindsey books  - the Mallory series is one of the best in historical romance. So, I do like her style of writing and I think she has amazing depth to her characters. Yes, Pirate's Love is a little tough at times to accept. Does Tristan rape Bettina over and over again -sure but he was a Pirate of sorts - and his feeling was she was his prize and he took her. That was the prize he wanted when he overtook the ship she was on - she was the sole purpose for taking over that ship. He wanted her, he took her. And probably if Bettina were not so stubborn and a little more mature and not have opened her mouth and spouted such nasty hate - they could have realized so much sooner that they actually had a true attraction. But these two were both stubborn. In reality Tristan was the much more likeable early on of the two. I found Bettina annoying and truly wanted to shake her.I mean she  protested too much. Thank goodness for Gaby and she finally realized she was JEALOUS!!  However the main thing readers that are critical of all this - these were the times that this book is written about and these things happened. And you cannot expect a sedate proper little courtship between a pirate and a wench that he desired. So what Lindsey writes was is the old style bodice ripper historical romance and we should all be glad - because truthfully many of the plots are totally boring today. This books was anything but boring - the characters were interesting and passionate. I found myself liking this book more and more with each chapter. And wow if this was one of Lindsey's first efforts - it is no wonder that she is one of the best today!	2005-05-17
US	42706701	R2MZJUB96K89V5	0425198219	335481412	Strange Attractions	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Are there really men like Eric & BG??	Man, if there really are men like these two let me find them! Wow Charity really had the opportunity of a life and one that many women would die for - though maybe some would not admit it!As usual this was a top shelf book by Holly. She manages to take eroticism to a new level and like many have mentioned it is because of her unual ability to develp her characters. They become so far more than just sexual beings! This was just an awesome book for a contemporary because I usually only like historicals! Emma Holly rarely disappoints!	2005-05-15
US	42706701	R3J2LCQB55S4MQ	034546785X	471316124	Lord of Seduction: A Novel (Paradise)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	This was so much better than the 1st in the series!	For me this book measured up to her last passion series (which I absolutely loved) There was lots of sensuality in Lord of Seduction, a good solid plot and the chemistry between Thorne and Diana was strong and believable. Thorne one might think was the type of rogue to never find a woman to really challenge him in and out of the bedroom - finally with Diana he does. She is a strong woman but not in a way that would put a man like Thorne off, more that will intrigue him because she is not falling all over him trying to trap him into marriage.She has had her heart broken in the past and wants to keep from that happening again.  Even when he wants  their pretend engagement to be real she has no interest, and Thorne is shocked - a woman that can not want him? Well of course this just fans the fires in Thornes sole and causes him to rethink over and over how he might finally get her to agree to marriage. For a good part of the book he does not even realize that he actually has fallen deeply in love with Diana. The danger and the plot of trying to find out who is attacking the Guardians is a good backdrop to the romance. The passion between Diana and Thorne is as beautifully written of any Jordan romance. She totally excells in writing love scenes. Of course it takes a brush with death for Diana to realize she has to give into her heart and allow her true feelings for Thorne to be given a chance. And the beautiful romantic island of Cyrenne is just the place for true lovers to find eternal happiness. I absolutely loved this book - and cannot wait for the next in the series!	2005-05-14
US	42706701	R30GG6XPND7HZZ	0553587307	62291744	Lord of Sin	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not quite as good as others in the series.	Whoever wrote here that Hunter books display characters different that those of other writers - is right on. There is a much darker edge to these lords and ladies  - whether it is their shameless parties or their total disregard to the ton - all of the men in this series have had such a mystery to them. And Ewan was perhaps even more so than the others, might have been a greater addition to have seen him at his worst as the book began to get a true comparison because other than the references to his parties and his former life he almost seemed a little boring. I loved the characters though - Bride and Ewan were a compelling couple - and their story was beautifully written. Some of the mystery involving the engravings and forgery was a little too confusing but it did not totally overwhelm the book. There were some parts I think could have been a little better but overall a good book!	2005-05-11
US	42706701	R1GNHK4V09MGBW	0743456254	416110244	A Loving Scoundrel (Malory Novels (Atria Books))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	perfect wrapup for the Malory's -sad to see it end!!	In everyone of the Malory stories Jeremy just stood out as exceptional - even at 17 he was a rake and a scoundrel but you just had to love him. His famous \\"hell's bells\\" was so indearing and what a perfect son for James and the fact that he looked like Uncle Anthony - now that is a lot for any young man to live up to. I was not sure as this story began whether it would live up. It starts a bit slowly with Jeremy and Percy taking the little gutter lad {and of course the fact that Danny was actually a girl was so perfect after James & George) and expecting Danny to steal from a Lord. But once Danny gets under the same roof as Jeremy things do indeed begin to pick up - with the constant interuption of Malory's dropping in to Jeremy's new residence and of course they all notice the lust in Jeremy's eyes for his new maid. Just like in Derek and Kelsey's story the fact that Jeremey actually gets to spend time with Danny is so very important. In so many of these historicals there is no spending of time - only of the chaperoned type and I doubt very much if Jeremy would have found his true love under those circumstances. And was Danny not perfect for him? The fact that she had been pretending to be a male for the last 15 years was the best - when Jeremy is explaining to his father that she actually thinks just as he does - well father James knew he was in big trouble then. The mystery of who Danny really is - is just enough to not overwhelm the romance but keep it interesting and also to help Jeremy realize how important Danny really is to him. And of course the addition of a few of the Malory's we have come to know and love was the perfect topping for this romantic tale. Seeing both Amy and Regan just take over and help their cousin and also see James get his son out of a rumor/forced marriage were perfect additions to Lindsey's tale. This was another absolute winner - I hope she comes up with another family soon to write about - because I will miss the Malory's they are one of the best ever!!	2005-05-07
US	42706701	RSFPHI2ZXZWLX	0380804387	752977287	The Present (Malory Novels (Paperback))	Books	4	1	2	N	N	You just knew even the ancestors would be romantic!!	I did not expect this to be as good as it was - going back into history and reading what came before is usually not one of my favorite reads. However, you just have to credit Lindsey once again - because this book was beautifully written and so interesting - I found myself as interested in Christoff and Anna as any of the other couples. I loved especially the resemblance to the present day Malory's. The rouges James and Anthony and also the stubborness and persistence of Amy and Regan. Both Christoff and Anna seemed just exactly as you would think they would be. And of course  the Gypsy idea of passing this Present down through Mary's grandmother was priceless. And it certainly seemed like it would take a power from beyond to get Mary to budge on marrying Jason. What a beautiful way to wrap up that plot!! I love this  family, I love how they rancor with one another - but most importantly I love how they love and support - they are truly fun to read about. Thank you J Lindsey for  giving up  such a great group of books to enjoy!!	2005-05-05
US	42706701	RFFTHOJFZYF72	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A beautiful love story!	At first I was not sure if this was going to quite measure up to the first 4 Malory books. Jason and his son Derek just seemed a little more reserved - not the rogues that Anthony, James and Nicholas and Warren were - so how could this book be as good. Well it was such a romantic story. And both Jason and Derek showed their stuff in a tearful, loving heartfelt romance novel. Doesn't anyone ever wonder how these English of long ago ever managed to really fall in love? With so many restrictions on being alone and actually spending quality time together. Because of the outrageous way Derek buys Kelsey at the mistress auction -and then setting her up in her own little house - they actually began to spend many many hours together - and truly were able to fall in love. Derek  needed that. He was just not the hardedged rake that his uncles were - he did have more of a romantic nature. And who knew - that he might have actually gotten it from his father. For me this was just a touching love story - both the Jason & Molly and the Derek & Kelsey one! And at the end of the story when all of the family is discussing the fate of Derek and oh my goodness the scandal that marrying ones mistress might cause, it was entertaining to see all the uncles and wives have opinions. Was anyone shocked that Anthony and James almost seemed a little stuffy and pompous in their feelings? This was just another great Malory book - and I do think the only negative might be Lindsey's need to rehash all of the family members in each of her books. Actually this is one family that I feel like I know better than most and love each and every one of them! Just an excellent book - a must read for Lindsey fans!	2005-05-04
US	42706701	R33N97I2ZR0GNG	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Even better the second time around!	I loved this book when I read it several years ago - but recently I got into a Malory kick - and truly realized how much more I enjoyed this book when you read about this family in order and nonstop. I just did not appreciate James's bizarre and hilarious sense of humor - how he banters with his brothers and others. His prefectly adorable rake of a son Jeremy - how he realizes George is the tavern wench and decides she will really service him as a cabin boy - and the scene where he totally gets himself married by admitting to George's brothers that he did every last thing they are accusing him of - just so he will be forced to marry her - remembering how well it worked for his other least favorite relative Nick !! The second time around when you know all the players these scenes  are just absolutely pricelss!!  Both Anthony and James the two most notorious Malory rakes are not to be equalled in romantic history. George and her spirit was perfect to match wits and fists  with James. ninty some  people have already told the plot over and over of this wonderful love story - but the best advise I could give to anyone is buy them all and read them in order - then set them aside and bring them out on a cold winters day - and enjoy them all again as I have. The Malory family is a clasic in romantic history!!	2005-05-02
US	42706701	R35M288XVBEY8X	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Another great Malory romance.	This story was a bit different - having the female, Amy being the persuer and boy was she. But when a girl is going after Warren Anderson you have to pursue, and pursue and have more patience and pursue some more. One might wonder why Amy - who is much a vision of Regan, Anthony  and James would be the only one that could see beyond the cold, aloof hard manner of Warren, the yank that most Malory's only tolerated. Amy had set her heart on him when she met him briefly 6 mos earlier, now all grown up (18) and ready for marriage, Warren comes to England and she annouces almost immediately that she wants to not only marry him but make him smile and happy again. This whole plot would have been more of a turnoff with any other author, but with Lindsey and her being a Malory it works! Amy is quick, witty, adventourous and more endearing than many of the simpering English lasses we are so often faced with. The story is only enhanced by revisiting so many of the Malory brothers and family. This is such and interesting group you love to read about them over and over. You have to have lots of patience to get the happy ending in this book and at times you truly wonder if Warren will or can ever really smile or be happy. But keep reading it is a great story and makes you feel good to see someone care enough to turn this grinch around!!	2005-05-01
US	42706701	R27MHFF3H7TL3Y	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Tony and Ros - love at its very best!!	I did not think anything could be better than Nicholas and Regan but then there is Tony and Ros - they are absolutely an unbelievable couple. What humor, what tempers  they both spend so much time trying to outthink and manipulate each other - but when they just let each other feel they are a sizzling couple. Anthony Malory might be one of my favorite historical rakes. Obviously his looks sound devine and his humor and just the way he thinks and acts are so sexy. Ros is so perfect for him. He needed a feisty gal and this Scottish lass it so perfect. The story is filled with ups and downs mostly because of Ros and her insane condiditons she keeps putting on their marriage and how humoriously and not so humoriously Anthony deals with them. This family is definetely one of the most compelling and interesting  of historical romance. To really appreciate it try to read it in order because then each book builds on the others and you will truly be able to enjoy each one to the fullest.  Better allow about 5 or 6 days because once you start you will not be able to stop!!	2005-04-30
US	42706701	R2MEAQJ09EFLZ4	0380899531	800832404	Love Only Once: A Malory Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Does it get any better than this??	I think the Malory series like the Cynsters and Bridgerton are one of the best historical family romances.  What makes the Malory family different is the interaction and friendly and not so family tension between the brothers and their extended  family members. It starts with Regan (Reggie or Regina) as the family cannot even agree on her name. She is the special niece  to Anthony and James the most notorious of the family rakes. And of course she ends up being accidentially compromised by Nicholas Eden who might even be more of a rake than her uncles! Nicholas has a major reason he never intends to wed and even though he promises the Malory family he will marry Regan he has no intention of following through. The passion between this couple is real and intense - and the saddness Regan is left with when Nicholas dumps her at his ancestrial home after the wedding and disappears for 6 months is beyond ones sadness to deal with. Like all Malory's Regan deals the best she can - even with the baby Nick does not know is his. The love and support of a wonderful famiy truly comes through as Regan deals with Nick's dissertion - and the way Uncle James retrieves Nick from the West Indies and returns him home is priceless. There are so many ups and downs with this book and you are reading nonstop and can not even think of  putting it down. This is a love story and sets up the series beautifully for the adventures and loves of James and Anthony!! This was my second reading of this series - as others have mentioned - you just want to reread this Malory family saga again and again. I do think though that Regan and Nicholas might be my favorite - followed closely by Ros and Anthony!!	2005-04-30
US	42706701	RL0RM4TM8QK3X	0451214234	851801274	A Most Unsuitable Man (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Somewhere between a 3 and a 4 Star.	This book was not nearly as good as the usual Beverley works and I have read many! The characters were not quite as interesting - although Fitz was more interesting than all the rest.  I loved the fact that he was such a hero and truly Sir Galahad! Damarius was a little dull and just seemed not worthy of his affections. I do not agrre with whoever wrote they were disappointed in Rothgar - Rothgar is one of my favorite Beverley men and he did not disappoint at all - in fact at the end he showed just what a romantic he has finally turned into. I think the mystery of both Fitz's family and Damarius's family bogged down what is usually a much more intense romance. There was so little of the Beverley passionate love scenes in this book - I need those!! Also this book was too closely tied to Winter Fire and I actually had to reread the end of that before I even felt comfortable with this book. I rarely rate books below a 4 - and anything below a 3 I just quit reading - I guess I love Beverley books enough to say read this but it is not quite her highest quality.	2005-04-29
US	42706701	RFJGWTFV8SSHK	0671737635	931033724	Something Wonderful (The Sequels series)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Nobody writes a better love story than McNaught!	It was many years ago when I read the first Judith McNaught book. In those days I really did not even like historical romance but still enjoyed her books. It has been a long time since I read Something Wonderful for the first time but it still is one of the very best books I have ever read. Like all McNaught books, the depth of the characters is so much more than other writers can begin to accomplish. She just does so much more with emotions and by the time you finish this book if one is not truly sitting there barely able to read the words because of the tears streaming down your face. I can't remember a book I have felt recently so overwhelmed with the plot as I was this book. Jordan is truly a difficult challenging rogue who is perhaps it seems one of the most unfeeling men of historical romance. By some twist of fate he meets Alexander and she is just a very young breath of fresh air to him.  She totally captivates him and even though he is forced to marry her he finds this might in fact be the most wonderful thing that has ever happened in his life.  But of course before he can even begin to appreciate the wonderful loving, totally refreshing darling wife he is taken captive and almost dies only to come back 15 mos later to everything in his world being totally in uphevel including his wonderful wife standing at the alter ready to marry his cousin Tony. There is no way to even begin to write here how unbelievable this book is.  All I can say is like most reviewers read this or truly any other of J McNaught's books and you will not be disappointed.  If I could give this book 10 stars it would not be enough.  This book is truly Something very very wonderful!!	2005-04-25
US	42706701	R391VGQOO545BY	0380820897	431997179	One Night of Passion (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A deeply moving and very exciting love story!	Lord Colin Danvers, has recently been dishonorably discharged, as a traitor from the Royal Navy. Desperate to escape his troublesome thoughts he goes off to a Cyprian's Ball and hopes to be pleasantly distracted.  One thing that is clear from the beginning for me was that Colin was not guilty of these charges against him and that he was a highly honorable person.    The most unlikely person to be at the Cyprian's Ball is Georgiana Escott but she is one very desperate lady. Her Uncle Phineas has prearranged a marriage to the infirmed Lord Harris. One of the conditions is Georgie be a virgin and the exam will be the next day. The only solution as Georgie believes is to not be a virgin and what better place to be deflowered than at the Cyprian's Ball. At the ball she meets Lord Danvers, who is unbeknown to her the very guardian, who signed the papers allowing the marriage to Lord Harris. Georgie and Colin do not know who each other are which of course complicates their future relationship.    Colin is so very intrigued by this young Cyprian that seems more than interested and willing. He wants to treat her honorably as that is the kind of man he is. But Georgie was determined and sizzling passions ensue and lead to One Night of Passion but the next morning Colin wakes up and the lovely Georgie has disappeared.     Georgie was one of the better female characters I have read about recently. She was a take charge girl, who really had a interesting way with words and dealing with situations. She was a challenge for Colin. He just found her so different and they seemed to sizzle right off as two destined for passion. I loved the way they met - the one night of passion they shared that night was totally believable and the way they meet a year later on the shores of France was a perfect way for them to come together again. Georgie would show her uniqueness aboard a ship and also she did have a little surprise for Colin. Neither had forgotten the other and it was not long before they rekindled what they had shared that one night.     This is a story about spies and danger but the plot is believable and the romance is not overshadowed by the dangerous mission Colin is on for the Crown. The only problem I had which kept me from five stars is the ending. For me it was a little rushed and in the epilogue I would have appreciated discovering a little more about their life, their children and not that she was just sailing off with him on another secret mission. But all in all I loved this story about two exciting characters that in a night of surprised passion truly found their sole mates! A solid four star book for me and looking forward to many more from Boyle.	2005-04-23
US	42706701	RRY1VFJP6878T	0060543965	44178549	A Woman's Innocence (Spies and Lovers)	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	Great conclusion to this series!	I think it helps to read this series in order! I loved the books that came before and Julia had seemed possibly innocent of the crimes against her. It was great to see the hero of her whole life come back and save her.  You had to really like Sam, it is always fun to read about a  spy at work and their disguises and how they fool people.  It was also very touching how he could not fool his brother - that showed a deep family love there. Both Sam and Julia were the product of her being so far above his station in life when they were younger and both loving each other from afar for so many years that it caused them bad choices in their lives. The mystery of who really did the treason was not much of a mystery but more how they were going to prove that Julia did not. It was a good plot and the chemistry between Sam and Julia is evident from beginning to end. I especially loved the epilogue and all the couples coming together - all having their happy endings!  A truly great book - Gayle Callen never disappoints!	2005-04-22
US	42706701	R3QSXFCAT02FDG	0821778315	4149739	The Naked Duke (Zebra Debut)	Books	3	12	18	N	Y	Barely 3 stars!!	With a title like the Naked Duke - well I  expected much more in the way of romance, passion, lust anything - the reviewer that said there was too much - where - I think I read almost 2/3 of the book and there was nothing more than a few kisses.  The heroine was more annoying than anything - she was way too cool and aloof - then she gets to London and a few turns around the dance floor and she becomes wanton - and then she is so worried about the reputation that James has as a Monk (Richard tried to paint him anything but one) but in reality he was one!  Very very confusing, especially if you reread the beginning when he finds naked Sarah in bed with him, and what he might do with her in the morning.  I mean his thoughts are rakish but reality is that he was a monk??  This really was in many ways a difficult read for me. I really do like a lot more romance, lust and sizzle to my historical romances. I expected so much more with the title! This book was just ok!	2005-04-20
US	42706701	R2MV06YUWZ5GZ1	0060527056	576993619	Affair Most Wicked, An	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Loved the sizzle between this couple!!	I love sizzle in my romantic reads and this one had a lot of passion and lust. Seger was a true rake and London women practically would be willing to line up for how he could satisfy them in the bedroom - now you have to admit that sounds yummy! Clara meets Seger at a Carakas Ball where everyone wears masks so couples can disappear into nooks, and bedrooms with no questions asked.  Seger, who had lost his one true love 8 years before has given up on love and romance and only wants fleeting inturludes - then by mistake he meets a truly lovely young American, Clara at this scandalous place.  Immediately there is an intense connection between the two -  in the weeks following it only gets hotter and soon they are meeting in his carriage at 2 a.m. and he finds himself actually purposing marriage.  This is one hot book in many parts - it does seem to bog down a little after they marry as to Seger and Clara truly relating to each other in more than passion. I think this area needed better development.I did not understand exactly why Seger who was the true rake seemed to question being able to trust Clara. It would appear that she certainly had so many more reasons not to trust him! The villains were of the manipulative type and fortunately neither Clara nor Seger were totally able to be swayed - from their resolve to try to have a true marriage. I think the twist of the plot at the end was important for Seger to really discover how much he did love Clara and put his past behind him. All in all this was a good romantic read and I would recommend it to those that enjoyed this series. It was most comforting too, to see how well Sarah and James were getting along for they certainly had their challenges in their own book!!	2005-04-18
US	42706701	R2BLJGX5P61WIS	0060597283	714917732	My Own Private Hero (The American Heiress Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	So much better than "To Marry a Duke"	Awhile back I read about Sara and James in To Marry a Duke and just was not totally taken by their romance.  This time I absolutely fell in love with Damien in this story - wow he could have rescued me any day. He was really more honorable than a rake and his cousin was just stupid and totally inept as a fiance or a potential lover - hopefully there will be no book about Harold. Damien proabably had never been fortunate to be so close to a woman of Adelle's depth of wonderful qualities. He recognized all those qualities and saw even more - her passion and zest for life that she had kept hidden for so long. They just really sizzled as a couple and it was exciting watching them come together. I absolutely loved this story - the only reason not 5 stars as I have decided to be a little tougher in my reviews - but this book is a keeper and I highly recommend it!!	2005-04-17
US	42706701	RRDZGWF8Q6TN8	0451408012	317232401	Lord of Midnight (Topaz Historical Romance)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Somewhere between a 3 & 4 - kinda dragged!	I love Jo Beverley so it is really difficult not to automatically rate one of her books a 4 or a 5.  However this book dragged too many times. It took almost 100 pages at the beginning to decide which female was going to be the bride - at points I wanted to just chuck the book - and I admit I did skip a few paragraphs here and there.  However it does get better when Renald and Claire finally do wed and you get to the main plot, the deception that Renald the King's Champion  had to kill Claire's father.  I love Renald - I loved him in Dark Champion and in some ways I agree with the reviewer that said they wished the story would have been more from his perspective because he just seems like an deep, emotionally exciting man. Claire was easier to take than Imogeen from Dark Champion - at least she was not hung up on a lot of Priestly spouting that curbed her inner most passions.  She started to feel very deeply for Renald - and why not - he was quite a catch.  She just had a huge hurdle to overcome - he killed her father.The conversation with them when Renald spoke honestly about her father to Claire and why he had brought about the foolish contest between them was so heartfelt.  Renald actually liked Claire's father as the king had, what a waste all for the sake of being right but totally stubborn! The last third of the book is much much better than the front - and by the end I was totally engaged in the plot and really was glad I had kept reading.  I will never rate a book below 3 because those books I set aside and never finish. This might not have been one of Beverley's best but she still develops characters more completely than many writers and I would still recommend Lord of Midnight!!	2005-04-14
US	42706701	RGOMN217VVQA7	0451207661	939661312	Dark Champion	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beverley proves once again she is one of the best!	Whatever period Beverley chooses to write about her characters are so full of depth, heart and emotion that it is always a pleasure to pick up one of her books and dive in for an emotional ride.  This book about Tyron and Imogeen (although I prefer to call her Ginger) was so well done. Imogeen is 16, hard to believe so much horror could be dumped on her at such a young age. No wonder she was barely able to deal with some of it rationally. She showed great strength in going to her neighbor Tyron Fitzroger to regain her Castle but was totally unprepared in dealing with him as a woman, that he would expect to marry. The way her mind was manipulated by the priest was so frustrating to read, but Tyron's realization that she was so young and his patience with \\"Ginger\\" was beautifully written. Tyron was so strong and yet he had enough of a vulnerable streak to make him one of the best heroes I've read about recently. The Middle Ages is not usually my favorite time period to read about but this Beverley book was first rate and I highly recommend it. I also highly recommend her Malloren and Rogue series!!	2005-04-12
US	42706701	R3D9IUYJ3S0UJ	0060584068	295106963	Lady in Red (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	For the most part a good conclusion to the series!	This, the conclusion to the Talisman Ring Series finds the thirty-nine year old eldest brother of the St. John family finally under the the spell of the ring, if only indirectly. The ring has made it into the hands of Honoria Baker-Sneed the arch rival antique nemesis of Marcus.    Honoria realizes that Marcus wants the ring but she is desperate for funds and will offer him the ring for an outrageous amount of money. While they negotiate the deal, romantic sparks fly and they finally get way to public with their affections and must marry.    There were times with Marcus that I did want to strangle him. He was just too controlled with his emotions. Thank goodness he did start loosing some of his control with Honoria or they certainly would never ended up together!    I think at points there was a little too much conversation with the other children for my taste and this book was a little short on romantic passion. I believe I was hoping for a little more showing of lust from this 39 year old handsome St. John brother.    I especially enjoyed the moments Marcus spent with his brothers because they just knew the ring and the legend would find Marcus his true love! I thoroughly enjoyed all in this series. The talisman ring, the legend of it leading the men in the St. John family to their beloveds was so romantic and each of the stories so different and intriguing.    All in all except for a couple of minor details this was a great four star conclusion to a great series.	2005-04-11
US	42706701	R1JWH31530BBMO	0452281431	533637295	Beauty's Punishment: A Novel (Sleeping Beauty Trilogy)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great erotic and psychlogical read!!	I agree with the reviewer who said this is way beyond the punishment and well into the psyche of these tortured slaves. I found especially captivating the love Tristan developed for his master - it was really deep - you truly felt bad for him when they were captured because Tristan was resigned to staying in the village for many years. Beauty is not quite sure of what to make of Tristan through his village experience - she is not quite so \\"in love\\" with her masters. I would imagine that you could read many books supposedly of this same type and not ever would they come up to the standards set by Rice in these 3 books. And this book might be the best of the three - it sure was intriguing and quite and emotional read for me!!	2005-04-10
US	42706701	RWC5XGNI1ZAGL	0380809273	777912243	The Dangerous Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nice ending to a great trilogy!	Ian did not disappoint as a sexy, mysterious hero in this the last of the Lord books.  One cannot imagine what horrific events shaped his past to keep him so secretive and how he felt somewhat deserving of his bad reputation.  Felicity is the perfect woman for Ian - of course it took several confrontations between the two.  She of course was the famed Lord X that kept writing about Ian as the rogue of London. Ian takes her on and challenges her in seeing how she likes having her flawless reputation questioned - hmmmmmm he has a wonderful way of doing that by a skathing kiss on the balcony at a ball for all to see! Of course Felicity cannot resist Ian and the romance begins. For me this was a page turner much the same way the Forbidden Lord was a page turner. Only the first in the series gave me pause, as the Pirate Lord was a rather boring read compared to the other two!	2005-04-09
US	42706701	R2XHKSX7T7QIAC	038079747X	681868285	The Pirate Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	For most of the book it just dragged!	I love Sabrina Jeffries and thought the Forbidden Lord was one of the best books ever -- really expected to like this one too. But even Jordan was totally annoying in Pirate Lord. Sara was way too high and mighty to actually find warm and captivating and I have no idea why Gideon claimed to be so taken with her from the very beginning??  Gideon was the most boring pirate ever and nothing like the rogues and rakes that usually epitomize true pirates. The plot dragged for much of the book - I actually picked up and began another book while reading this - which I never ever do.  The book did get better more than 2/3 of the way through which allowed me to finish.  And I would have to say that the twist of the plot at the end was a rater saving for me and I did find myself loving the end and totally tearing up!! I see that most have rated this book very high - although the few that rated it lower seem to share my opinion of it being a very slow moving dry book!	2005-04-08
US	42706701	R29OUWYU5ZVUR9	0380797488	38293536	The Forbidden Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Starts slowly but builds to an unforgettable romance!	It took me a little while to get into this story - Emily I thought might appear boring and not able to handle Lord Blackmore - boy was I ever wrong. The plot, her pretending to be someone else Lady Emma, to get information about who had tried to elope with her friend Sophie was perfect. It allowed Emily to flirt and seem to be a wanton - not that Jordan did not know immediately who she really was.  I liked the fact that he knew - sometimes in these stories the guy seems a little clueless.  There was a strength and intensity to Jordan that I found very very sexy and to die for!  The chemistry between this couple was intense and very real. The storyline a bit of a mystery and kept one guessing how they would sort out the tangle in the end. Emily only wanted Jordan's heart and in the end the stiff Lord Blackmore had a much bigger heart than he ever thought capable of.	2005-04-04
US	42706701	R1VA6WRAORT4YT	1843605724	365414490	Madam Charlie	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Hotter than most Regencies and that was a good thing!	With so many giving the basic plot here I do not feel compelled to write another synopsis. Basically i found this an erotic romance set in the Regency period - good plot and sexy characters that would compete with other erotic reads soundly. Perhaps some of the language used , for me seemed a little more like a contemporary - which might have caused me to not give a 5 star as others have, Also the depth of characters seemed a little less developed than I prefer for a true 5 star book. But I will look to find other Sahara Kelly books in the future when I am looking for something a little steamier!!	2005-04-02
US	42706701	R1TM5TR9HUCD0Q	0380820854	391607547	To Sir Phillip, With Love (Bridgerton Series, Book 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A deeply emotional and loving romance!!	Like others I did not expect to like this story of Eloise very much at all. In the other Bridgerton stories Eloise came off more annoying than not, but in her own story she emerges as a deeply caring, warm woman who decides to take charge of her life and take a huge risk and run off to the home of Phillip Crane a man she had been writing to for over a year. At 28 Eloise is feeling desperate to find her own life and her own romance could Phillip be the one? Phillip is a male hero of a different sort - deeply damanged inside by an abusive father, left to feel incapable of making his first wife even marginally happy (she killed herself) and believing himself not worthy or capable of being a good father to his twins - Phillip buries himself in his greenhouse where he works as a botonist. He has written to Eloise and suggested perhaps they could marry.  In writing he feels a safety because he does not have to reveal all the complicated turmoil of his inner thoughts. However Eloise surprises him with a visit and she is like a tornado in his quiet house. At first they seem totally not to suite but sometimes opposites do attract and since Phillip had been without a woman for 8 years and Eloise a 28 year old virgin - they do become compatible at first through passion. Well that is a good beginning - and enough it would appear for Phillip. He has a mother for his children and finally a willing bed partner what more is there. Eloise not one to be content with mediocrity she wanted more communication, she wanted Phillip to be closer to his children, she wanted love. And this just was a beautiful different kind of love story. This is one story where the most romantic parts of the book and the most emotional come after the wedding!! I would be remiss not to mention the brothers Bridgerton who make a stong appearance in this book - they are such an entertaining group and proudly Phillip holds his own - it is classic Julia Quinn! I loved this book as I have enjoyed all the Bridgerton novels - you will not be disappointed.	2005-04-01
US	42706701	R26UIQOR123R3F	0380815583	618770208	An Offer From a Gentleman (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Every book in this series is different and amazing!	First off, I love the Bridgerton family - except for the Cynster family they are my other favorite historical family.  The love, the wit, the dialog between these siblings and their wonderful mother are unequaled in any other books.  Each Bridgerton is so unique - and each story so different. Benedict and Sophie meet 2 year before when she sneaks off for one night like a Cinderella at the masqued Bridgerton ball. Benedict is totally captivated by the lady in silver - but since she is living the life of a servent in her stepmothers house she is certainly not worthy of a Bridgerton. She flees at midnight and Benedict has no clue who she is - and for the next 2 years his mind is always searching for the mystery woman. Then quite by accident he meets her again, oh he does not know it is her - and of course Sophie does not tell him and he falls in love with her all over again. Can a Bridgerton actually marry a servent?  This story is just so full of love - and Benedict is just so wonderful and his family so willing and accepting of Sophie - I just could not put this book down. When you read a Bridgerton novel you just feel the love and the romance and it is oh so wonderful. Absolutely a 5 star plus book!!!	2005-04-01
US	42706701	R10O073ZBGS1LF	0060531231	291945801	When He Was Wicked (Bridgertons)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutley, one of the best books -ever!!	How could anyone read this and not be totally captivated by this story? It was so heartfelt, so believable and if one just did not fall hopelessly in love with Michael ... well he is one of the most romantic heroes EVER!! He falls in love with Francesca -his cousins wife - a cousin that he loves like a brother - and he sadly creates this illusion of life as the happy rake to disguise his feelings from everyone most especially Francesca. The unbelievable happens John, Frannie's husband dies suddenly - only 2 years wed. Not only does Michael now become the Earl but he has to deal by consoling his beloved. Can anyone even imagine how impossible that would be? Michael is an honorable man, he never wanted any of this to happen, so for 4 years he flees to India -and Frannie carries on. But she misses her best friend -Michael and when he returns she wants their friendship. Michael is still as much in love with Frannie as ever. Thank goodness for Colin Bridgerton, who also had been clueless to a ladylove right before his eyes - maybe that was why he gently nudged Michael into revealing himself to Frannie. All I know is the scene where he shows Frannie how he can be wicked was the most sensual scene in any book ever! I could read and reread that over and over again! Frannie was however so stubborn, which might be the only negative I think I could say about the book. I mean it might be understandable she would feel some guilt, for although she loved her husband she never ever felt what Michael made her feel - can anyone not wonder how good Michael must have been? This is a story of love, honor, guilt but it is not a story of betrayal - noone betrayed John by moving on with their lives! For me, this was the best of all the Quinn books. Her dialog scenes are often better than anyone elses - and they were in this. But she went beyond what she has in any other book with her romantic love scenes. This is a keeper - you won't be disappointed.	2005-03-30
US	42706701	RKXLWVIFR27MP	0380750872	675289868	Secret Fire	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Why did they have to be apart so much??	I would have easily given this a 5 star rating except for the fact that this couple was apart way too much for my senuous tastes.  The prince sees her on a London street - has to have her - they spend one night of passion - ok she was drugged but Kate needed and wanted this passion - then it has to be months before they again give into their feelings. Kate was a little too rigid in her manner and Dimitri just did not take enough into his own hands -- he kept letting her think to much and he should have let his emotions rule.  Then after they are in Russia, again they spend months apart after the second seduction - by then they both know they are in love - and again after 3 months apart they spend a few days together - finally seems like there is a chance - of course she does not tell him about the baby -then at the ball Kate overhears wrong information about Dimitri and she runs from him, and hides from him and it takes almost a year for them to finally get together. I loved this couple when they were together, just wish they could have been together more!!	2005-03-27
US	42706701	R1OPQ109KS8H7L	1551668319	774057267	Sweet Savage Love	Books	5	16	21	N	N	Nothing can ever compare to the Steve & Ginny series!	It was over 20 years ago that I first read this book - now I am an avid historical romance reader.  And nothing compares to this series. You hate this couple, you love this couple, you want to scream into the book and shake them for the way they treat each other - You can certainly not feel indifferent to them. At first it is Ginny that grates on my nerves the most.  It is probably her immaturity - she is young and so completely clueless to real life and she angers Steve unnessecarily, taunts him and teases him to think her totally different than she really is.  Steve on the other hand is totally the way he appears, tough, hardened and completely without any moral compass. Only his grandfather seems to give him any conscence so he marries Ginny after totally compromising her. This is when the book takes you into the darkest of depths - what happens to both Steve and Ginny should not even happen to anyone, even in a novel!!  But perhaps some of this was necessary for Ginny to grow up and become a real person. It was during this horrible point in Ginny's life when she thought Steve dead, worse him thinking that she had betrayed him, that she realizes how very much she always loved him. Steve's tortures were as bad if not worse, and he becomes even more of a dark sole. When Ginny finally finds out he is alive and manages to get to the hacienda where he will eventually return - it will take every skill in her power to convince Steve that she had not betrayed him and that she wants their marriage and him. Right now I wish there were not these other books in this series - which I know i have to read - but I cannot even stand to know that this couple will probably go through all the anguish all over again for many years to come.  The saga of Steve & Ginny is a timeless, heartfelt smoldering love story that causes the reader to be overwhelmed with its intesity!!	2005-03-26
US	42706701	RT9FEERAV5KDE	0843952334	630102821	The Last Rogue	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This one just got better and better!!	This one started off slowly - I had somewhat of a problem with the reason for Luc's sequestering himself in Cornwall and his vow of celebacy because of Sybals death - it truly seemed a little farfetched - and then when he keeps taking the cold water swims and after meeting Bliss well you knew this was just never going to actually be accomplished. Luc not having sex seemed impossible.  I too would have been wagering in Brooks  - Luc really did have a problem with his zipper going down.  But still, Luc seems to be a rogue with a deep heart - and he grew on me as the story went on.  And this might be the most telling part of Luc Westmore he does seem to have more heart and depth to himself than one might expect.  The sex sizzles between Bliss and Luc and since I am such a romantic this was an important ingredient in their wonderful story.  I too will miss the rogues - each story got better and better and Luc's turned out to be the best of the best!!  I recommend this series!!	2005-03-21
US	42706701	R2KXT0EZPC97T6	1562012959	134701421	The Altar of Venus	Books	3	10	11	N	Y	Just ok nothing special!	I guess for me there was just too much about this guy in his very young days - I really don't find to much erotic hearing about ages 8 through 14 - as the story got further along it got a little better but it would never be on my top erotic reads - just not hot enough, sexy enough or sultry enough!!	2005-03-20
US	42706701	RXCN3DY1AKDHG	0843951346	653138636	Seduced by a Rogue	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Certainly steamy enough!!	Wow this one was to die for in the bedroom - and almost every other room too!! Phoebe and Ram had a past that had for once left the man the rejected one - which sent Ram into a life of debauchery and he wanted nothing to do with Phoebe ever again.  So he finds himself by order of the Crown forced back into her life.  Thinking of course that he will be able to keep his lust in check, well that lasted about one day.  This couple was hot and the mystery surrounding the amulet made for a good backdrop to unravelling their feelings and possibly learning to trust one another. For this couples biggest problem was lack of trust. My only reservation on 5 stars would be the reason Phoebe left him 4 years earlier- David Phillips just came off to much as a scoundrel to ever seem to be able to influence Phoebe to leaving the man she loved.  But alls well that ends well and this ended quite well - looking forward to Luc 's story now - what will London women do without the 3 Rogues??	2005-03-19
US	42706701	R3PKREZ4VCKITX	084395020X	272619825	The Rogue and the Hellion	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	1st Mason book won't be my last!!	Wow this one sizzles - which I absolutely loved!!! Gabriel was the type of rogue i look forward to reading about - something dark in his past causes him to behave so wickedly then he meets the right woman and he starts to slowly change but uses his rakish qualities to make for a hot romance with the lovely Olivia.  They meet in the stangest of ways - she hold him up at gun point and he is captivated and from then on the story just gets better and better -I am so looking forward to reading about his friends!!	2005-03-17
US	42706701	R2CZ84YKDGVB8	031299284X	368130981	Further Than Passion	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Somewhere between 1 and 4 stars??	I love Cheryl Holt books - the books about Michael and James Stevens were examples of excellent Holt combo of deep characters and erotic love scenes.  This book had the steaminess - although some was bad scenes with Chris and Pamela and Melanie and Elliott - but some of the scenes with Kate and Marcus hit the mark for Holt.  But the characters in the book - seriously were any of them worth caring about.  Kate was so stiff and so uptite you just wanted to smack her. Her life was bad but not that bad to not show some warmth - it was a little hard to believe that she really cared for Marcus.  And Marcus - Lady Pamela was the one he gave his only heart to??  Well since Pamela was a cold blooded shrew what does that say about Marcus he had to be more stupid than broken hearted. And Chris and Selena well I am ok with Chris using Pamela for his education - what I am having a problem with is that they were 16 and 18 years old - the most mature couple in the book are teenagers --was this meidevil times??  There just seemed to be questionable depth of characters written by Holt and that makes me a little sad because I do love and look forward to a Holt novel. Maybe I will pull one of her earlier works off the shelf and reread??!!	2005-03-15
US	42706701	R13BPHNOZT3YDR	1551669226	259003950	The Hidden Heart	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Not quite as good as the other two in the series!	Richard Duke of Cleybourne, returned to his country estate to deal with the tragic loss he had suffered four years earlier, the death of his wife and child. Not dealing at all with his loss his intent is to kill himself and when visitors arrive he does not even want to let them in.<br /><br />Jessica Maitland is a fiery flamed-haired governess to Gabriella Carstairs. Gabriella recently inherited a substantial estate when her Great Uncle is murdered. Immediately before his death he had warned Jessica that Gabriella was in danger and that she should be taken to the Duke of Cleybourne, her guardian.<br /><br />The arrival of Jessica and Gabriella just might be what Richard needs to conquer his self imposed exile of the world. When the perverted Veseys arrive determined to retrieve Gabriella, Richard feels the danger to Gabriel is very real and Richard knows he cannot turn this innocent teen over to such a depraved duo. Shortly afterward, whether it is the Veseys or some unknown assailant, there is an attempt on her life.<br /><br />Although I really really liked this book I have to grade it down a bit from the other two in the series. For me there were a few too many characters and it seemed the mystery plot dictated the romance rather than the romance being the central part of the story. In a way I suppose all of this confusion and suspense is what Richard needed to get himself out of his self imposed isolated world of the last four years. So while he probably needed to be thrown into murder and mayhem for me I would have enjoyed more a development of their love story. Thus while a good read not quite a five, but a strong four star book.	2005-03-14
US	42706701	R16KQXAW9GA4B2	155166657X	260814457	Secrets Of The Heart	Books	5	12	13	N	N	So much better than any reviewer indicated!!	I am so glad I do not select my books by some of the negative reviews given here. I had just completed Devin and Miranda's story and was so happy I had already purchased the book on Michael and Rachel. First off, I love series books, if done well, and the characters are able to be developed so thoroughly that one really comes to care about them in depth. Just enough of Michael and Rachel was in the first book that you immediately loved and cared about both of them and so wanted them to have the love that other siblings had.     This couple just got off on the wrong foot so to speak, and neither seemed gusty enough to break out from the pattern they had established. On the eve of her wedding to Michael Trent, the Earl of Westhampton, Rachel Aincourt tried to elope with another man. Her plan failed and she was returned to Michael but she refused to accept this man as her husband for real. Rachel just felt this now was her life and what she deserved, trapped in a loveless marriage. Michael hides so much from his wife and this contributes severely to them ever becoming close. He doesn't even tell her that he works as a Bow Street Runner, which of course becomes a major part of the story.      A pattern of stilted awkwardness had developed when either got to close or things became too intimate and both were so wanting this to change but seemed locked into their own prisons, refusing to bend or recognize the potential for love in their relationship.  Rachel had become much less afraid and more gutsy, perhaps because of her sisters influence.     The interesting twist that Michael had a double life and really was able to be a totally different person. When Rachel suddenly stumbled on this other person, James, and found Michael's alter ego, the man she always wanted to love and desperately wanted to make love to things really do heat up.  Finally the ice melts for this couple and seven long years later they have blissful passion.     The mystery that surrounded their liveswas just enough to intrigue the reader without taking away from what was the main story, their developing love story. I don't really understand how anyone could feel this a dull read. As part of this overall series I could only, happily give it five wonderful stars.	2005-03-12
US	42706701	R28XVP8CZXGIQ0	1551668777	165748545	So Wild A Heart	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A real page turner, not to be missed!!	Devin Aincourt, Earl of Ravenscar, has lived a life that makes him a totally unacceptable husband for all ladies in good English society. He is a drinker, a womanizer, a gambler and long ago was cast aside by his disapproving father. Devin really makes no apologies and is content to live out his cursed life in this hedonistic manner. But his mother has other ideas. Devin must save the family from ruin by marrying into wealth. Since no English family will have him the solution is to look toward an American. Miranda Upshaw, the daughter of a wealthy fur trader will be attending Devin's mothers dinner party. The plan is for them to meet with the hopes of an eventual match. Devin, the despicable man that he is does not even attend the party. Instead Miranda does meet Devin when she by chance rescues him from street thugs.    At first Miranda wants nothing to do with Devin. In general this feisty, independent woman is unimpressed with the English aristocracy. Somewhere deep within Miranda feels there might be another good and caring side to Devin and she does agree to marriage, but in name only. But soon Miranda's ultimate goal will be for a real marriage. She has many obstacles, not the least of which is a diabolic mistress who has been manipulating Devin. When you realize how mistress Leona was undermining Devlin at every turn you can begin to feel empathy for him.    Devin might start out to be one of the more contemptible rouges I have read about. He really did some very bad stuff. But I soon fell in love with this man who had been taught to hide his real feelings. Miranda some how manages to discover those feelings and it was a beautiful and intense love story.    This is just such a different kind of love story and the characters of Miranda and Devin you just want so very much to make it. I was actually quite surprised by a few of the plot twists at the end. I have hurried out to buy the next two books in this series. I feel Camp has several winners! This is a realpage turner not to be missed five star book.	2005-03-10
US	42706701	R3DDGU3AYO8837	0060528400	547145306	Duke of Sin (The Duke Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	First Ashworth book - and Won't be my last!!	William Raleigh the Duke of Trent suspected of murdering his wife and shunned by society, has been living as a recluse on his vast estate. Vivian Rael-Lamont is a widow living near the duke. She has secrets from her past that are threatened to be exposed unless she can retrieve a valuable Shakespearean manuscript from the duke's estate. While the blackmail plot is rather weak the two characters were so strong and engaging that you were quickly drawn into their tragic lives and this allows you to accept the plot that brings them together. The book was truly more about the growing feelings between William and Vivian.    This was a truly incredible romance between two lonely people who had been damaged by their previous marriages. William was just so loving and caring. The way his body reacted to Vivian was incredible. Obviously it had been awhile for him. I loved how Vivian was intuitive enough to realize that this sensitive loving man could not have done all the horrible things that had given him the name, Duke of Sin. As she opened up her heart finally after thirty years both of these lonely people would find real and true love.      On a romance scale this book ranks high with some highly charged emotional love scenes.  In fact the love scenes are some of the best I have read in a long time.  This is a real page turner and four strong roses. I highly recommend and do not think you will be disappointed.	2005-03-08
US	42706701	R1U7QTXNM51U4E	0380818205	825716848	The Marriage Lesson (Effington Family & Friends)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Humorous, but not quite senuous for my taste!	It has been awhile since I read a Victoria Alexander book.  I do not know quite what her style is.  But normally I prefer my men a little more strong, dark and rakish and not quite so witless.  And at times Marriann just seemed too silly with her adventures and nonsense.  The book had some good moments so it deserves a chance.  And I will read others in the series but this would not be the first author I would run to on a long winter weekend.	2005-03-08
US	42706701	R14P5E43D31KF8	0553299573	648885839	Blaze	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Almost but not quite!!	Having read Silver Flame and Forbidden before this I was very interested in the infamous couple that came before the children - and while I enjoyed Blaze and Hazard I felt the stories of Trey & Daisy much more erotic and compelling. For Johnson this was pretty tame.  And the reviewer that mentioned unresolved issues-I agree, what made Hazard all of a sudden forgive Blaze that night in bed - and really why did he not have more faith in her to begin with - it is not like Hazzard had as so many men issues of trust. Still in order to complete the series this is a good compliment book and a good solid 4 star romance.	2005-03-06
US	42706701	R2615OP09M9WJO	0449006352	249824558	Prince Charming (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another 5 star plus book!	As with each in this series - Foley has another winner.  It was interesting how each in the series was so uniquely different. I just love Foley's character development - you really feel at the end of the book so wrapped up in their lives.  I did not expect to care so much about the hero Prince Raphael.  In the book the Princess you knew he was young and immature and not surprised at all how he was duped by Julia.  Just how intently this effected Raphial became apparent as this story unfolds.  He started off so irritating, cocky, brash arrogant--feeling oh so sorry for himself.  But then as the tragic plot starts to unfold - and how he suffers but more importantly grows into quite a decent man.  He shows a true capacity to love and to trust. All of course because of Daniella.  She is the one that can make Rahpael all that he can be.  She is brave, loving and beautiful. This book was one I could not put down. It was great again to see the might Darius with his flock of little daughters -still happy with his beloved Serafina.  And the scenes with Lazar at the beginnning and the end were just so touching - total tear jerkers.  How anyone can say Lazar and Allegra were remote bad parents I do  not understand.  This was an absolute must read!!	2005-02-28
US	42706701	RID4JBX7NLDUZ	0380798867	562252278	Taming Rafe (The Bancroft Brothers)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Witty, clever and a great romantic Regency!	Enochs books are not quite the depth of character as a Stephanie Lauren or Gaelen Foley - more light hearted and fun.  Still this was a good read and kept my interest throughout with lots of great dialog and enough romance to keep a romantic like myself interested.  Rafe was the perfect hero, a rake with a heart.  And maybe not so much a rake as a man who truly needed a home and a purpose in life.  Felicity gave him both - a reason to reform and a wonderful woman to love.  You will not be disappointed in this book.	2005-02-28
US	42706701	R2IZ7N5S1XC4FL	0449002470	900263604	The Pirate Prince (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another winner for Foley!!	I read the second in this series first not knowing there was a first book - I do not like to do that but it was so worth the trip to read about the beautiful and romantic couple of Lazar and Allegra.  WOW what more is there to say - they are so real.  Some authors just have this ability to make you feel like you are reliving the lives of the characters.  Foley does this with Allegra and Lazar. Their love story is one of the most heart felt and passionate I have read in awhile.  Although Lazar has his demons and seemed so strong about revenge Allegra strikes the very core of his being and immidiately he becomes this loving emotional man with such a passion - I just could n ot put this book down.  It was so sweet the way Allegra had loved the legend of Lazar and did not quite believe in the beginning that this Pirate was her Lazar - so he found himself competing for her love with himself. This book was a page turner from beginning to end!!  Also since I had already read Dariaus 's story it was nice to find out how he became so important to these people.  Absolutely a 5 star plus book!!	2005-02-22
US	42706701	R4V2H997OBLCN	1903931185	170918754	Arena of Shame	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Just wish it would have been longer	The problem with so many books like this is you just wish they were longer.  You just get into the plot and become involved with the characters and the book wraps up.  I really thought this was one of the better erotic reads - Branna suffered such shame but it was so intriguing how she hated to admit how much she enjoyed most of it.  Now that to me is a great erotic read!	2005-02-22
US	42706701	R2BXXJGJITDEUP	0778321258	855313846	The Bride's Necklace	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good romantic read!	I enjoyed this book - the first I have read by Kat Martin.  The story was well written, for the most part the characters well developed and you really became involved in the romance between Cord and Tory.  At times you really did want to knock Cord over the head though.  He was probably the reason for 4 rather than 5 stars. He just for too much of the book was more stuffy than real and even though he seemed to totally become this sensual devil in the bedroom - the rest of the time trying to \\"control\\" his emotions just grated on my nerves. Thank goodness he was sliced with the sabor - he needed to bleed a little to show that he was real!!  I loved Tory the way she adapted to all her situations - she was a great heroine and I was glad she got her happy ending.  It was a good setup for the next book - I think Grace and Ethan are potentially going to be an even greater couple. You know they are both dealing with so many demons! As I said this was my first Kat Martin book but it will not be my last!!	2005-02-18
US	42706701	R9YBQ6VN195VG	0449002136	883837876	The Love Slave	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Frustrating, emotional and sensual!	The frustrating part for me was that Zaynab appeared to truly fall in love with Karim the Passion Master.  After knowing no love at all in the first 15 years of her life Karim comes into her world and sweeps her away with such a depth of passion that it sizzles right off the page. I realize that they both had their honor and had to do what was expected of them. She had to leave Karim for the Caliph - HOWEVER it seemed that Zaynab dealt with this much better and easier than Karim did.  She too easily accepted the love and world of the Caliph and this was frustrating.  It seemed Karim was much less adapting to a world without his Zaynab.  The emotional story of Zaynab and Karim was beautiful and so very sensual - I loved them together!  What was even more upsetting for me was when the Caliph gave her to his assistant (can't remember his name) and Zaynab felt the need to be a true love slave to him - he was even a virgin so she had lots to teach him.  Since she supposedly still loved Karim this was a little hard for me to understand.  I guess she took her role as she was trained for very seriously.  Yes, I did believe that she truly loved Karim and finally when she looses her child and totally breaks down and realizes she has nothing she appears to finally be a real person and not just this love machine. The part with Karim and the devastation of his entire family was really really sad. There was something truly wonderful about his family and to realize this wonderful sensuous man lost so very much really upset me. The reuniting of Karim and Zaynab was wonderful but it should have gone on for much longer - we could have used one more terrific LOVE scene between this couple at the end when they are finally a true couple at last!	2005-02-16
US	42706701	R1JOUZ6Z4AI44Y	0743442733	447191563	The Pleasure Seekers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	What a tortured rogue!!	The ever so elegant Lady Bliss Ashton has rejected all the eligible men of the ton. Bliss is looking for someone unique and different and Caine Ballinger, the Earl of Hartland, known for his sexual prowess just might be what she has been looking for.     Caine unfortunately has anything but honorable motives for wooing Bliss. His reasons are tied to a bet, which if Caine is able to seduce Bliss he can regain control of his ancestral estate. There is the added incentive of getting revenge against Bliss's father, by seducing Bliss and then publicly shaming her by announcing her seduction.     Caine might be one of the saddest characters in romantic book history. He really got to me! I know I would have been just like Bliss,  I would have wanted to heal him. Men that have had such a tragic life truly are the most interesting to read about.     Bliss with her French artistic background presented a challenge to Caine, one he was not expecting, when he set out to seduce her. He was so intensely twisted up in revenge against Bliss's father, who he blamed for his family's ruin and his own father's life. These events left Caine penniless and forced to be a kept man by the evil Olivia who occupied  his ancestral home.     For Caine the question is whether revenge and a chance to regain his heritage win out over the love and heart of true angel, Bliss which he never ever expected to truly fall in love with. This is just such a beautiful love story! Four solid stars for me.	2005-02-14
US	42706701	R2VRH6KRB67GKG	0743442725	662355506	The Art of Seduction	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	One HOT romance!!	This book has one of the most sensual beginnings of any book. If this seduction does not draw the reader in, I am not sure what intro would. Now, exactly who was the seducer, that might be quite revealing.<br /><br />One memorable night Dominick Carlisle finds himself totally captivated by a masked woman who basically seduces him in the gardens at a costume ball. He is hopelessly infatuated and she is oh so very willing and at the moment he finds that she is also a virgin he is shocked and filled with guilt and confusion.  Her continued desire for him forced them to continue and both were ultimately quite satisfied. Intending to discover who this mysterious lady was, Dominick has no opportunity because she immediately disappears. All he has from her is a handkerchief with initials, the initials of her sister, Annabelle Sutherland.<br /><br />Dominick feels honor-bound to offer marriage to Annabelle, having no idea that it was her sister Parris in the garden. To add to the confusion Dominick discovers Annabelle in a compromising situation with his very own brother. Thinking the worst he takes back his offer of marriage, enlists in the army and has no idea he has left his real true love, Parris alone and confused.<br /><br />This book is one very compelling story about mistaken identity. It is so very sad that Dominick and Parris lose eight long years, both thinking very confusing thoughts but neither forgetting that wonderful night. Dominick is one sexy hero and Parris is the perfect match for him.<br /><br />Sometimes a book is so well written the chemistry just sizzles and jumps off the page for the reader. This is one of those books. Dominick and Parris are one of the great romantic couples. I found this book to be a real keeper. Five wonderful strs, enjoying every moment of it!	2005-02-14
US	42706701	R1578IKCCO6N28	0553561537	840434615	Desire	Books	4	2	2	N	N	You don't expect a medieval to be so humorous!	This was actually a pretty light read - and at times side splitting humorous.  The scene the morning after the marriage bed night was just soooooo funny!!  But this was also a pleasantly romantic read also.  Gareth was a tough man with no humor, and no home and he needed everything Clare could give him.  She thought she wanted one type of man for a husband, in fact she even had a list of requirements and other than being able to read Gareth it seemed met none of those on her list. But of course things are not always as they seem and this couple actually falls in love in a beautiful way. You will be swept away with the story - enjoy it!!	2005-02-10
US	42706701	RAUDGLZCXHSFG	1551669277	438003724	Wicked Loving Lies	Books	4	15	18	N	N	This book is either to love or to hate!!	Where to begin with this book - I started reading Rosemary Rogers years ago - the Steve Ginny books were my first real romance books and I felt nothing could compare to them. In some respects all books I read today are a little less than anything Rosemary has ever written.  There is something about the depth of plot - the emotional intensity she brings - her books are like epics one can really get involved. The story of Marisa and Dominic is one of the most intense I have ever read.  It takes so long to finally get a true feeling about Dominic - for the first half of the book he does seem brutal and the way he treats Marisa is appalling - but she is so naive and acts so stupid at the beginning - and lets face it men back in those days were not ever worried about the consequences of rape - if a woman acted in a certain manner or put herself in dangerous circumstnaces she deserved whatever she got. and Marissa constantly put herself in Dominic's way. Certainly Dominic was not one to trust - his background his total life experiences placed him on the low end of trusting ANYONE and certainly not a little wench.  I cannot say I enjoy the main hero constantly raping the heroine - however in this book it was necessary for the plot and when you read Rogers you come to expect a certain amount of bodice ripping scenes.  The very best part of this book comes in the last 200 or so pages.  When Dominic and Marissa finally after knowing each other for about 3-4 years - finally spend time together - they finally truly make love - they finally talk - they come to realize that all that they have gone through has brought them to this place in time TOGEHTER! Such a telling scene for Dominic to reflect on was when Marissa tells him each time she was \\"taken by a man\\" and over and over she says HIM!! Marissa had remembered it all - Dominic so typical of a man probably had never realized what a brute he had been.But during this time when they are often alone on their journey to Spanish territory Dominic really becomes a genuine caring person. He shows true emotions. Marissa really falls deeply in love. At times I wanted to cry for their love.  I guess I am a true lover of this book - I love to really upon occasion get immersed in a complete love story. And the only reason I am not giving this book 5 stars is the ending!!  After reading almost every minute detail of their lives why were we cheated to such a quick ending.  I wanted to see her reunited with her son - I wanted to know what became of his finace - I wanted to see them have one more intense love scene when they finally were committing to forever - this book just sort of ended. After so detail it just ended.  But except for that it was one unbelieveable story and if you like Rosemary Rogers and want to immerse in a book for several days - read this book!!	2005-02-04
US	42706701	R35UQAS8XX066J	0440236940	270118303	The Secret Lover (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 6)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good book - not a 5 star but still good!	I think the biggest problem I have with some of the London books - it takes too long to get truly involved in them. There is just a lot of extra pages at the beginning that I am tempted to skip because they drag with discription which seems unneccesary!After you get into the true plot of this book, once they are in London - and certainly when Sophie finally meets Caleb - then things start to sizzle!!  The way her family was trying force/encourage a relationship with society's accepted brother Trevor - who Sophie found offensive, boring and perhaps dangerous!  But Caleb was a [...]and society had deemed him a fortune hunter.  Sophie is torn between the love she feels for Caleb and what her family will expect of her.  This is a touching story too about the love Caleb feels for his father and how Trevor seems to be keeping Will the father away from society and in a drugged state.  Of course he has dispicable motives for his actions and eventually will be revealed.  The love is strong between Caleb and Sophie and people will enjoy how they respond deeply to each other.  I do not understand the problem with the epilog - if a writer is not going to continue with many other books to follow in a series - why not let us know how these characters deal with their lives beyond the end of the book!!	2005-01-30
US	42706701	R22WOWDDXRW2LO	0345401964	428400581	Exit to Eden	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Good - maybe not 5 stars but still good.	I have read so much about Anne Rice - and finally managed to read one of her books - since I dislike anything with vampires thought I would give this a try.  All I have to say is \\"where is the Club?\\" and where can I meet a man like Elliott??  wow!  This is a very sensual tale about two people Lisa and Elliott who have enjoyed to the hilt such a heavy dose of an alternative s&m life style but when this couple finally meet - PASSION!! Much more powerful and intense for both of them than they have ever experienced.  They both find themselves willing to risk anything to persue this opportunity with \\"love.\\" Rice actually allows you to see them fall in love in their flight from the Club. This is a strong powerful book and I found it a page turner.	2005-01-25
US	42706701	RI504UNPNP1ZW	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Did not expect to love this book so much!!	The story of Anne & Race I just did not expect to love as much as I did.  Anne Peckworth in the other books by Beverley hardly seemed to have the strength to be interesting enough to carry a romantic adventure.  It truly is a credit to Beverley's development of character - this book just builds and builds and with each chapter you are totally submerged into Anne's adventures and search for a husband.  Of course the perfect match you know is Race which you meet in the first few pages.  What a perfect hero Race was, strong, independent, adventurous with such a protective, caring way - but alas he had no \\"title\\" - no credible  background and everything was about who and what you were back then.  Certainly, he was not good enough for the daughter of a Duke.  Anne really tries to follow her mother's advise that you can learn to love a man of proper birth - you just have to give it time.  Anne tries, but no one can compare to what she feels for Race.  One thing I especially liked was the patience Beverley had with the ending of the story.  Too often writers hurry the ending, the last couple chapters of this book were truly superb and influence my 5 stars.  St. Raven's help in the end was so romantic too, very romantic of Tris!  He wanted to make sure his good friend was truly happy.  And the father's of Anne and Race both came through in a big way too which in so many books the father's were horrific!  Once again Beverley has done an excellent job - this is one of her best.	2005-01-25
US	42706701	RY6SQMTS4BB3D	0451208072	896317720	St. Raven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another fine work by Beverley!!	I found Tris to be a great hero!!  He was such a complex individual - having been such a wild young man, he is beginning to fight some of his rakish ways - feeling compelled to settle down and be a \\"Duke\\" but in so many respects, really just wanting to be a good, carefree and decent person.  Enter into his life, just when he is beginning to come into what he will be, Cressida - a young lady with so very many problems of her own.  And Tris just becomes her knight in shining armor. What a knight he is too - wow he was so gallant, caring, romantic and just a delightful unassuming person. I loved some of the dialog between these two.  Cressida also is the first woman that really emotionally and romantically takes ahold of Tris's heart. Because of that he seriously questions how far he is willing to allow the dictates of what is supposed to be a Duke's life and a Duke's wife and what will really compliment Tris's life.  Cressida was the one thing that would make him the best that he could be - she truly brought out the best in him and it was a wonderful romantic tale.  Great Beverley rouge book!!!	2005-01-25
US	42706701	R1MFVAHIBFRV67	0380800268	324613940	In Your Arms	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than many of the reviews, I felt!	Rogers often has male heroes that kind of border on cruel and abusive - I guess if one likes that more dark, brooding male then Rogers books are for you.  And yes, I often like that sort of male - Deverelle is sometime almost abusive in his treatment of Aimelle - but he is very confused about so many things in his life and has this real concern of people taking advantage of himself and his grandmother.  There is an attraction between these two from the very beginning - Rogers makes you feel it - there is just so much to get settled before they can be together.  Actually I thought this was the problem with the book the historical parts were way to confusing and kind of bogged down the romance.  And the end was a bit hurried - there was so much time spent in some parts and when they finally get together it was just rushed. I have always loved Rosemary Rogers books - the Steve and Ginny books were my first reads in historical romance and while this in no way compares - it is better than many books that are written today and any Rogers book is better than most!	2005-01-19
US	42706701	RXP48ZT9LCBUH	0553560549	38215420	Virtue	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Only got better and better the more I read!	Brother and sister Sebastian and Judith Davenport plan to take on revenge for the man who ruined their father by duping various young men in the gaming halls. Their plans are severely thwarted when Judith becomes compromised by Marcus, Lord Carrington and  must marry him. Marcus wants a respectable wife and the gambling of Judith for him is not acceptable. Judith feels she cannot give up her plan for revenge and must decide between achieving that goal or an ultimate chance at love.     This started a little slowly for me.The seduction and the marriage were such a sham. Neither Marcus nor Judith really seemed to feel much more than a little bit of lust for one another. And a critical part in a romance novel has to be a really strong feeling between the hero and heroine.     However, this is a story that needs to build and Feather is great with the character development between both Marcus and Judith and also Sebastian her brother. Marcus and Judith are such an unlikely pair. He starts off so stuffy but seems not at all so when she turns him into a passionate incredible lover. And Judith is one of the more unconventional women. She totally has Marcus under a spell, as he says, \\"knowing her true self is like pealing layers of an onion\\"!     This is a complex tale of gambling, intrigue, revenge and winning back a lost family fortune. There is so much to the story and by the end you are so caught up in the romance of Marcus and Judith and very glad they did indeed fall passionately in love. I found this five star book a winner that I could not put down.	2005-01-17
US	42706701	R1DQWF7MTJARDU	0440226317	57073862	The Devil's Love	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Now this was a romance!	I absolutely loved this story.  I love dark heroes and Michael certainly was that.  But for so many good reasons - everyone either had betrayed him in his life or those he cared about had disappointed or he lost them.  Thus, when he finds he must marry a certain young lady who he remembers as a hellion and waif you will not find Michael being pleased. An agreement he signed when he was much younger finds him in this predicament - and if he does not marry Abbey he will loose a substantial fortune and Abbey will loose her entire dowery.  Abbey on the other hand thinks falsley that Michael has loved her his entire life as she has forever loved him. So she arrives in England with a romantic notion and Michael is anything but.  He is dark, resentful and within hours she is married.  Of course Abbey is nothing like Michael expects and of course he finds himself captivated and falling in love.  But since he is always expecting the worst he totally balks when a small lie from Abbey sends him into a tailspin and a downword spiral of their marriage that almost seems impossible to correct. This is a strong emotional tail that kept me turning pages through the night.  London makes these characters very real and you will not be disappointed in the development of their great love story!  Much much better than the later book Wicked Angel!!!  Highly recommend this book!!	2005-01-15
US	42706701	R2308ABE23EY77	0440226325	682784432	Wicked Angel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good romantic read!	In spite of the fact that I had to skip a few very boring pages here and there - for the most part I enjoyed this story of Alex dealing with duty and honor verses following his heart to the only women he has ever loved Lauren Hill - the beautiful country miss that is all he has ever wanted in a woman -- I especially give high praise to Hannah Alex's mother - so often the mom's of this era are potrayed as stodgey mean and nasty only caring about tradition and family - this mother actually wanted her son to know love and be happy!!  Looking forward to the other books in this series.	2005-01-13
US	42706701	RZD4VBV1TS43K	0060543256	329679917	Sin and Sensibility (The Griffin Family)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Most was not adventurous enough  for me!	This book for the most part was only a three star - although by the end it did get better.  A true deep character development was just not there - I felt there could have been so much more to Valentine but I was not feeling it.  And the reviewer that felt Eleanor was too modern day might be correct = at the most she seemed confused.  I mean what she really wanted was a love affair not some crazy adventure.  And speaking of adventure - for these two that pride themselves on wanting excitement and some wild adventure - a swim in Hyde Park - not a real page turner- very oh humm!!  The way this was written I just did not feel the intense love coming from Val to give up his carefree life fot Eleanor -again just not enough in depth character development here. For me too there just was not enough intesity to the love scenes - and not enough of them!!  It took too long for the real adventure to begin- which came at the end -- and I really did like the end but not enough to give it more stars!	2005-01-12
US	42706701	R2K4LTL37TDW65	0804119813	641771685	Master of Temptation (Paradise)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good but not quite as intense as her other series!	I love Jordan books - several I have read again and again --like Ecstacy!!  This was good but perhaps it was the setting or maybe it was Caro -  I am just not sure - but this was not the usual 5 star for me. I enjoyed the steamy scenes but even they did not compare to her other series. Mostly I just did not feel an in depth connection with the characters - Max I felt had much more to him than Jordan revealed in this book - I recommend this but would preface it that it does not quite live up to her other series--at least not yet!!	2005-01-10
US	42706701	R2OHNBAYISC8U3	0380756277	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good but not a 5 star!	I guess my first reason for holding back on a top rating would be the subject matter - it no way offended me - how Warwick was raped at the beginning but seeing the male have that done to him just goes against what I personally enjoy in a romantic book. The way he deals with Rowena afterward however I did feel was justified and her response was intriguing.  Books of this time period are not often my favorite so it takes a good writer like Lindsey to bring me into the story - and she is such an amazing writer that I often feel the depths in her books - no matter the time period. These characters were so true to the period and I loved how she was able to show a tenderness in the fierce Warwick even though he was a ruthless man of the period.  Rowena was a good balance for Warwick and it was wonderful watching the love develop between these two in spite of their circumstances!	2005-01-06
US	42706701	R1FJ455XFTS3E2	0449002462	10369433	Princess: (Book 2 in the Ascension Trilogy) (Ascension Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Darius is my kind of hero!!	I just loved this book - it started off strong - an attempted kidnapping of the Princess in the very first moments - and Darius shows immediately his strength and devotion to Princess Serafina.  The book only gets better with its intensity and emotions of these two people for one another.  Darius has loved the Princess his whole life, and due to his background feels unworthy of her love so he tries to keep his distance but still protect her.  Serafina has been in love with Darius since her 12th birthday when he took a bullet, almost died and saved her father's life.  The depth of their love is so clear and you feel the difficulties both continually face dealing with duty and honor.  Darius is one of my favorite males - I just love the dark, mysterious type that has so much emotional baggage that it takes the true love of a good woman to overcome and find the wonderful man beneath.  That is what this book gave me - an in depth story of true love!!  I highly recommend this book!!	2005-01-04
US	42706701	R1G22UCWIU8QQP	0451158636	516548444	Devil's Daughter (Devil's Duology)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Almost as good as Devil's Embrace - but still a 5!	The first thing that totally grabbed me was the realization that the oh so compelling Earl of Clare was 60 years old in this book. Somehow you want your favorite characters to be ageless - He still seemed a compelling character and no, I know the book was not about his and Casandra this time but you want them to be blissfully happy! Well they certainly bred a couple of interesting children - and how the present manages to repete the past - that Adam would end up with Edward's daughter (who seems nothing like her father) and that Arabella would find love with the women's son most hated from the first book.  I too - because I loved this family so much could have had seperate books for both Adam and Arabella - however since the plot works so well and it all is so interesting and intriguing I will not fault Coulter's combining the stories.  You just have to love the way Adam and Rayna find one another - but most especially the love between Arabella and Kamal - wow that just sizzled!!!!! And his shame at the end because of his horrible mother was so understandable for a proud man.  And the Earl's little manipulation for his daughter - how unlike him to help things along!  What a great father! This was just a beautiful story - I loved every moment of it!!	2005-01-02
US	42706701	RUTI8RPNH1VDM	0060565160	330189272	Her Scandalous Affair (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good - but a little ligher than I prefer!	After reading a couple of Coulter books I guess I feel that books like this one are a little light for my complete satisfaction!  Nicholas and Isabel just needed a little more development for my taste - at least if I am going to give it a 5 star rating.  This one proabably falls somewhere between a 3 & 4 for me - giving it the higher only because I might be more critical right now because I just read some really amazing books. I enjoyed the plot of this book and found the romance to be credible it just needed a little more of something! Actually one of the best most romantic parts was why the ruby broach was given to M and how the love between these old soles never ended. Hopefully the love between Nicholas and Isabel will be that strong and last as long.	2005-01-02
US	42706701	R1HIMLDNBN6DV9	0451200268	88590264	Devil's Embrace (Devil's Duology)	Books	5	10	21	N	N	One of my all time favorite books!!	It seems you either love this book or hate it.  I guess it depends on what you see as in depth real passionate love and to what lengths one is willing to go to achieve this love.  Anthony was willing to do almost anything - yes he did perhaps go beyond the rights of man with her first taking of Cassie's virginity.  However - I guess I can forgive that one lapse for what comes after - and Anthony is just the epitomy of the strong, sensual passionate man that I would have loved to have met in my life.  He is just so gentle and loving to Cassie - you can feel instantly the love he feels for her.  I think this is because he truly does understand her - he loves her fiesty nature, her love of adventure and she meets his passion with one of her own. Yes, Cassie thinks she loves her soldier Edward - who right from the first just seemed to tame and too staid a man for one like Cassie.  She would have been bored to death with him!!  Anthony and Cassie's whirlwind love affair will totally pull at your heart - at times your heart will break - the intense rape from those 4 dispicable villains will just tear you apart.  Anthony's love and affection for Cassie afterwards will make you finally understand how deeply wonderful a man he could be.  And when Cassie flees him to once again meet up with Edward you will want to scream at what she does!  I think that completely evens out the rape from Anthony at the beginning of the book.  And Anthony's reaction to what she did - wow - what true understanding and love from a man for him to react so magnanimously - most men would be wallowing in their own bloody pride!! This for me was a once in a lifetime book - I think I will be like the other reviewer that will not even be able to read another book for many days - still dwealing on the emotions of Anthony & Cassie.  I totally 100% recommend this  <br />book - it truly is one of my all time favorites.	2004-12-31
US	42706701	R1H5SCI8HTSUQC	006059330X	301978253	A Lady of His Own (Bastion Club)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nothing better than a Stephanie Laurens book!!!!	Well over a year ago I began reading historical romance novels and the first I read were Stephanie Laurens. I read every single one she wrote and each one seemed better than the rest!  Since then I have been searching for an author I feel is as good as she is - and I am still searching.  Yes, there are many great authors but there is just something about Laurens that reaches the very depth of a person.  This book embodies that character development.  Charles was so dynamic and you just loved to see someone so in control of everything in his life have to thoughtfully, seductively court Penny who 13 years before they had one night of passion.  It is always so romantic when the man never forgets a lost love and it was so clear that Charles never forgot Penny.  And Penny who is now 29 could never ever forget her first and only true love.  It was so obvious how this couple was closer and more connected than most couples in romance novels.  That is what I feel Stephanie does better than anyone.  All of the passion seems so real - it is intense - it is absolutely beautiful.  Someone wrote this book was too long - how anyone could think a Laurens book too long - I could just read on and on and never tire of any of her love stories. I have a special place for all of Laurens books and will be reading this one I am sure again and again.  Totally a complete winner!!!	2004-12-30
US	42706701	R2NC2PA4PUNU2W	0060006617	908183003	A Perfect Bride (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This was a wonderfully romantic book!!	There was just something about this book that I enjoyed so much.  Sebastian & Devon were such a compelling couple.  I loved Devon - for a girl from the wrong side of the tracks she was as elegant and lovely as any girl of the ton.  Sebastian was so very taken with her - he just could not help but falling in love with her!!  Their romance was so believeable!  Something else that was very important for me was the fact that Sebastian had already decided that duty and honor be damned he was going to have Devon as his wife!!  It was so very important for me a true romantic to not have it just be Devon's high birth but love that motivated Sebastian. This is just a great love story!!	2004-12-24
US	42706701	R3L29BPHQD4SO1	0060502797	961958334	A Perfect Groom (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A beautiful romantic story!	I just picked this book quite by accident one evening and could not move until I had finished it many hours later.  Yes, it was just that good.  I love totured heroes that have for whatever reasons felt not worthy of a good woman and Justin Sterling is just the perfect rouge.  What a reputation he has and totally not the right match for the Unatainable Arabella.  Many years earlier they had met and it had not been a positive moment for either of them - so when they meet in later years the sparks immediately start to fly.  Well you know what they say when there are sparks there is fire and boy things soon heat up between them and just never seem to quit - my kind of book!!  With great love Arabella is able to get to the root of Justin's demons - he is down deep such a sensitive wonderful man - and it always seems to me to marry a former rogue for the bedroom forever life!!	2004-12-23
US	42706701	R2UJKU5VS4APMT	1843608111	719827351	Secret Submission	Books	5	30	45	N	N	Wow - could not put this book down!!	I usually do not read contemporary novels - prefer historical but this one was awesome.  Really a facinating story of submission with honest to goodness love.  If this is the way Diana Hunter usually writes I will be lining up to buy her books for sure.  Philip truly sounds like the man I would have loved to have met - a dom but oh so sensitive and a beautiful lover.  This girl, Sarah in the story is a lucky lucky girl!  Wow - like I said could not put this book down! Highly recommend!	2004-12-22
US	42706701	R1PZBB4E3MFJWT	0060543957	401891681	The Beauty and the Spy (Spies and Lovers)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Really enjoyed this book!	This was a very good book - a lot of action, good plot and well developed characters.  The attraction between Nick and Charlotte was very intense and you really hoped that this love between them would work out in the end.  The book kept my interest throughout - I could not put it down!	2004-12-20
US	42706701	R1OV2HYCTASKEL	0451404327	572601868	The Rebel Bride	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Got better - but for me this was a tough read!	I really love Coulter novels so it is difficult to rate anything less than a 4 or 5 star.  However, this book just was hard to enjoy - it started off just great - Julien meets this beautiful young lady, Kate and is immediately taken with her.  He is bored with his rakish life and decides she will be his bride. Kate is also taken with Julien as a friend, and a beautiful friendship ensues.  So what happened, that is what is so difficult - Kate never wants to marry anyone and becomes a total shrew!  I mean there are just no endearing qualities with Kate until about 250 pages or more later!!  Julien tries every single way possible to change her mind.  He knows that she has suffered miserable abbuse at the hands of her father, so his first act is to get her away to London.  Most of the things Julien does for Kate are truly for her own well being.  He is totally besotted over her - they eventually marry - although he has to trick her into that.  Nothing he does, no act of kindness nor any gifts, nothing works Kate is just cold and nasty toward her now husband!!  Of course Julien has no idea the depths of Kate's problems with feelings and men - and what he does probably offends most of the readers the most.  Not that I condone Julien for raping his wife - even though she is blindfolded and does not know it is him.  However after all the wonderful things he has done - this is actually when the book finally gets interesting and the characters finally begin to interact emotionally. I believe by now we are well into the second half of the book!! Julien is so full of anquish over what he has done - Kate is so full of remorse for allowing her body to actually enjoy the rapist.  And of course Julien is realing from the reality that his virgin bride was not a virgin.  Well there are many more things to come and most importantly Julien finally is able to get Kate to come to grips with what has haunted her - the act of being raped and blamed as a young girl!  But then once again Kate when she should have been seeking out this wonderful man for sollace and strength - she again becomes a shrew and sends him on his way.  Why she changes her mind - I have no idea.  For Julien's sake I am glad she did but boy - like I said this was a tough tough read!!!	2004-12-19
US	42706701	R2KQAI68H7VZTM	0380756234	821414595	Night Storm (Night Fire Trilogy)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Best in the Night series!!	A long time ago I read this book - while I liked it - it did not leave the impression that the second reading did having just finished Night Fire & Shadow.  Alec certainly did not stand out in the other books - and you really were not totally sure how much he was in love with his first wife Nesta.  You certainly did realize that his grief and guilt when she died giving birth to their daughter Hallie - and he was committed to never marrying again. Of course don't these rakes all say that - until they meet THE one woman that upsets their well ordered life.  And this is exactly what happens when he meets Genny.  Their initial meeting is totally unique - her disguised (not very well in his opinion) as a young man Eugene.  She/he is attempting to run her father's shipping yard and Alec arrives from London to buy from her family.  There is one catch though her father will only sell if Alec agrees to marry her as well.  So many many twists and turns to this relationship.  They are a firey couple as Genny is so different than any woman Alec has ever met.  She is so stubborn about not being dominated by a man - has no desire to wed - but oh did I say desire --well she has plenty of that and when she and Alec finally errupt in bed well that pretty much settles at least that aspect of their relationship.  However there are so many other things to settle - and for awhile when Alec has amnesia Genny is not sure which Alec is real and which is not.  Several reviewers did mention Alec as a jerk - I just did not see this. Yes, he wanted to dominate as most men back then did and yes it took him a long while to realize the intensity of his feelings for Genny but he did - and I never saw any example of total cruelty toward her - he was always faithful and no matter how much they faught they always seemed to kiss and make up - so to speak!!  This was a wild ride of a book - could not put it down!  Really a great Coulter read!	2004-12-16
US	42706701	R15Y3ED21E95FU	0380756218	584269167	Night Shadow	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Love Coulter but at times this was not 5 stars!	I really find Knight just an amazing character.  You could start to tell in Night Fire that he had great potential.  His attitude about love, romance, children - so many strong feelings about things - he just thought he would marry at 40 and then have an heir and leave the child rearing to his wife and continue remotely from afar being and absentee father and husband.  Wow - did his life change at 27 when his dead cousins wife, Lily appears at his door destitute and with his 3 children.  Lily was such an intriguing, beautiful woman and those children just totally set his life in an unsettled state.  I don't know which captivated Knight more - the children or Lily!!  I guess the only reason I did not give this 5 stars would be - too much children.  I realize they were important to the story but I just don't enjoy that much chilren - prefer more intense love story.  and that might be another one of my complaints Knight thinks eventually that Lily is a loose woman - although he wants to wed her even though he believes this.  I am not exactly sure why he felt this way.  For many reasons though I would recommend this book the second in the series!!	2004-12-15
US	42706701	R30E5788XDBK96	038075620X	451236721	Night Fire (Night Fire Trilogy)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Good love story - maybe could have been better?	Airelle is certainly a young lady with a sad and horrific past and she is so fortunate to have someone like Burke Drummond to have fallen in love with her 3 years before, and devoted and patient to find a way to achieve marriage between them.  This is such an unbelievable love story - I think the only weakness is perhaps the development of how Airelle began to change her feelings for Burke.  Certainly he was patient and unbelievably caring and devoted and seemed to do all the right things - just on an emotional level I am not exactly sure what caused Airelle to actually accept Burke's love.  And the ending with the crazed nanny and Entinne - that would have seemed to immediately drawn Burke and Airelle together - to skip then to the wedding 3 weeks later and they are still coming together just seemed a little weak - I mean most of the time when there is such an intense scene as almost dying in the fire couples cannot bare to be away from one another.  For the most part though I love Coulter books and look forward to the others in this series!	2004-12-14
US	42706701	R23JSPAZWIB5A6	0553572156	49285759	Taboo	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	I guess one has to listen to Napoleon?	But I so wish that Andre would have listen to his heart that seemed to be beating in such a different manner for the first 3/4 of this book, then wham at the end what happened to this sensitive loving man that left his troops twice before to save his love Teo?  The second time he was saving the life of his unborn child too!  Those scenes in the middle of the book where he is so torn up over thinking she might die or the child might die - then when he is just tearing himself up over the desire to make love to her and so fearful that he could hurt them - these were some of the most romantic in any book - they were absolutely incredible - Andre was incredible - the love between this couple was so intense.  The last scene when he rushes to see her for 2 hours before he safely sends her off to her homeland - was just beautiful.  So what happened to this man - I just am with some of the other reviewers the last part of this book just did not add up to the first part.  I still loved the story and do feel this was a great romantic read but I could have done without the battles in the end and would have liked a better more honorable manner based on Duras's intense love for Teo - and it was just too hurried when they finally were reunited.  Did it really take his friend Henri to convince him to go back to Teo? No one earlier could have convinced him not to have rescued her before and no one could have kept him from going after her husband.  So for this part of the book I will reluctantly give only 4 stars when up till that point it was a 5 star plus book.  It is good to know that this wonderful couple has 5 wonderful children and the stories to follow especially about Pasha are some excellent reads!!	2004-12-09
US	42706701	RA8PQWTAOLOUI	0778321010	808122643	Jewel Of My Heart (MIRA)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Where have you been Rosemary Rogers??	One of my most favorite authors - and with this book I so remember how much I love her characters and depth of story.  The story of Madison & Jeffrod is one where you find yourself screaming throughout \\"don't be so stubborn listen to your heart!!\\"  Thankfully one of them FINALLY does.  These two are headstrong individuals with so much passion you cannot help but want them to find true love.  The heartfelt romance of Kendra's also contributed to the emotional depth of this book.  For me, this book was one I just could not get enough of, could not put down and wished it would have gone on forever!  No wonder I remember Rosemary Rogers as one of my favorite authors!! Only wish she would write MORE!!	2004-12-07
US	42706701	R33063JV6SRWJ0	0060564482	23289472	Must Have Been The Moonlight (Donally Family Series)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	I really loved this book , but still a tad frustrating!	This was an intense, beautiful, seductive, romantic read so why not 5 stars - I just could not figure out why these two, Brianna and Michael kept holding back completely from each other and why after many crisis the last one changed them and allowed them to be true to their feelings.  They just seemed so intensely in love almost from the beginning.  There was so much in Michael's background that kept him from showing his true depth of love for Brianna but he did love her almost from the first moment they met. It seemed there was not enough explained about why Michael held back - and once they finally get to England - why no big scene with his mother?  Brianna was such a hoyden - so totally independent and challenged him at every turn. It was so obvious that she was head over heals for Michael when they married - so why the challenge of the need to be courted after their voyage to England??  Even though I felt a tiny part of this book was not quite explained - overall there was so much to these two characters to make for one of the finer new releases for 2004 and I would highly recommend this awesome romantic read by Melody Thomas!! <br />	2004-12-07
US	42706701	R1KRUFKPLNXV1M	0758202687	497871464	Captivated	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Normally do not like books of this nature - but WOW!	I prefer books that are more in depth and do not like these shorter stories but when you have these 4 authors can you really go wrong?  Lady's Pleasure might have been one of the most sensual stories I have ever read - Robert and Abagail really have such and intense coupling - so erotic and pleasurable that you really do feel this amazing connection between this chance encounter!  Dark Desire was a true story of dominance - and actually very well written and highly erotic - maybe not the emotional level of Lady's Pleasure but still very good. The Susan Johnson story was rather a predictable Johnson plot with a lot of verbal banter back and forth which might lack the depth of the other stories.  Although by the end I truly felt badly for the marquiss and all he went through to find happiness.  Ecstacy was what it sounded like a mystical world of unreal sex in a land where women rule.  But the way it is written - very well done and a good fantasy read.  all in all a very good book!	2004-12-01
US	42706701	R166AWI85P4EMU	0821773895	452238164	Cherished (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good story - lots of plot twists!	I think the only reason I would not give this a 5 star review might be what has been mentioned before that the characters lacked a little depth.  I felt the attraction between Leon and Emily but it could have gone a little stronger.  And I was totally blown away with Sara and Peter - just did not see that ending as it did.  But the plot was well developed and made for a lot of intrigue and interest - I look forward to more Thornton novels!!	2004-11-30
US	42706701	R2RRXL6YGP314K	0449003167	301161243	The Bartered Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Sad but heartfelt love story!!	I am with those that do not like to start out going backwards when I read - I prefer to read beginning to end.  However in spite of that fact Putney creates a truly emotional read with her story of Gavin & Alex. When Alex is captured and enslaved early in the story you truly wonder how she will come out of it not permently scarred. How fortunate she is that Gavin Elliot comes along and becomes her protector and rescuer - He truly is the kind of man women are all looking for.  I mean he has only even had one woman in his life - unique to these stories for sure.  It will take much patience and trust between this couple to ever find true happiness though.  And their horrors do not end with the islands of the East - when they return to London they still have demons to fight.  Of course when a couple fears they have lost each other for good that is when they realize the love they have long felt. This is truly a wonderful love story!!	2004-11-27
US	42706701	RUXOAYECGIOTV	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	5 stars PLUS!!	This bookd just grabs you and holds you from the first moment. After reading the Lover Michael's story I could not wait to read Gabriel's - and I was not disappointed.  There is just such mystifying dark compelling man in Gabriel.  He is so haunted much like Michael was but for more very personal reasons.  Victoria comes to the house of Gabriel and sell's her virginity and for very complicated reasons Gabriel buys a woman - knowing he has no intention of even touching her - as it has been 14 some years since he has touched anyone.  The intense emotional feelings that build and the complicated second man who is manipulating Gabriel and Michael's lives is a backdrop to the erotic tale that only Schone can deliver.  Finally you understand the very complicated love/hate Gabriel seems to have for Michael.  This is such an amazing story - important to read the Lover first so you fully understand all the players and how they relate.  If you love Robin's books you will not be disappointed - this my opinion is her very finest work yet!!	2004-11-21
US	42706701	R14QV3NV2EJ0FR	0553585908	329605277	The Saint (Seducer)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I absolutely love this series!	Another winner for Hunter.  Vergil is the strong, silent type but oh so sexy and truly a romantic not a saint.  I loved Bianca and Vergil - they just smolder with hot passionate love between them.  This was a second read for me on this book.  After reading the Romantic I needed to go back and have a clearer understanding of all that happened in this 15 year long tail of the Laclairs.  For all Hunter fans - this is a must read!!  Do try to read these in order - they are so much more enjoyable!!	2004-11-20
US	42706701	RXBCNJEM93HVV	0553585894	686260074	The Seducer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Five stars plus!!	This was my second reading of this torid page turner! Like the title Daniel St. John totally seduced me!  He is one of those dark mysterious but oh so charismatic heroes. He has a past that has cast him in a role that makes him seem like the Devil himself.  For years he has done his duty by yearly visits to the orphaned Diane Albret but when he must take her with him finally in her 20th year he is immediately drawn to this lovely lady like no other.  Their paths are so intertwined in mysterious unforgiving ways that Diane has no clue about. Daniel is for the first time in his 31 years faced with a feeling other than hate and revenge. The passion he feels for Diane will not be denigned and she finds herself loving this man even though he might be the very man that caused her orphaned existence. This is such and intense love story and truly one of Madeline Hunter's finest!	2004-11-17
US	42706701	R610H0PRLJCVB	0553587293	664016094	The Romantic (Seducer)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book just pulled at your heart in so many ways!!	I would never have thought that Julian Hampton could have been such a dynamic character. As the book begins with him writing his letter that he will never send to his one true love Penelope you just have no idea the depths of this man's love and all that he has done for her, and how very long he has truly loved her.  Are there really men like this - I rather doubt it. But it is surely wonderful to read about them.  This is such a beautiful love story.  There is something about Madeline Hunter's characters that make them more real than others.  This group of men from the Dueling Society are a little more on the edge than those of the aristochratic ton one reads in other books.  An aura of mystery and danger seems to follow their lives that keeps one wondering about them and their lady loves.  The story of Julian & Pen is one of the best.  When those letters he wrote finally come out in the end for the world to hear I just cried.  It was so romantic - ah yes that was the name of the book.  A total keeper - read this series - and like someone else said read in order - you won't be disappointed!!	2004-11-16
US	42706701	RQLD11V3NKKT6	0778320898	128722596	The Prize (De Warenne Dynasty)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Wow - what an incredible book!	Devlin O'Niel just might be one of the most dispicable, unlikeable characters to ever have a woman fall in love with.  You just had to intensely dislike him - aloof, unfealing, selfish - never mind that he was drop dead gorgeous!!  But why would he have been like this.  To see his dear father killed in such a horrible manner when he was but 10 years old - he just kept reliving that awful moment.  And he lived to destroy the man who had killed his father in every way possible.  The ultimate revenge he thought was to kidnap the man's niece for a ransome.  But of course the niece turns out to be the most irristible female Virgina with a heart bigger than life and a will stronger than anything that Devlin had ever encountered.  It is just a heartfelt story, that at times is so painful to see how many times Devlin can break Virginia's heart.  If I were not sure in the end that it would indeed turn out well I would have stopped - some parts were just to sad and painful.  Many might consider Virgina a fool to love this man - but she was not a fool she was just able to see the man that Devlin could in fact be - and wanted so much to believe that he would be able to give up revenge for a life of love.  This was a powerful book and well worth reading!!  High praise for such and intense story by Brenda Joyce!!	2004-11-13
US	42706701	RWLPYC0E1SL62	0060507594	276715094	Wickedly Yours	Books	4	1	1	N	N	So much better the second time around!	I read this book a year ago, and while I enjoyed it I enjoyed it so much more this time because I had read the other Hiatt books about the Saint of the 7 Dials.  I am often confused as to why authors and publishers don't make these series books clearer as to which books come in what order.  Wickedly Yours is probably about the 4th book in this series and having an understanding of which other men had been the Saint and the history of how Flute was an important character to Wickedly Yours I felt helped me to enjoy this book so much more in the second reading.  It was also helpful understanding what nasty people the Mounteaths were and why Lord Peter was even more concerned about Sarah remaining with that family any longer than necessary.  I really enjoyed this book - the love story between Sarah and Peter was a beautiful one and it was a great addition to this series by Brenda Hiatt!!  Good read but read the others first!	2004-11-08
US	42706701	RS1KDB8GTLU76	006101379X	468995984	Scandalous Virtue	Books	4	13	15	N	Y	Good romantic story!	I actually read several of the other books in this series first then came back to read about Jack who was mentioned as the scandolous Lord who fell in love and sequestered himself forever with his lady love.  So, it was interesting to read about how this rake overcame his reputation and ended up with the virtuas Nessa.  Of course the interesting part was that Nessa wanted to be scandalous and Jack wanted her to save his reputation.  Seeing how they gradually got to know one another and how they came together as this great romantic couple was a pleasurable read!!  All of these stories from a similar group of Regency friends are wonderful by Brenda Hiatt!!	2004-11-04
US	42706701	RJY8D6C1QXWHT	0060507586	845069421	Innocent Passions	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Fine Regency romance!	I found Noel and Rowena to be another very sweet romantic couple. I do not think like another reviewer that these stories are repetitive - only that each of the men attempts to recreate the Saint - but the romances and the women are all completely different and all very nicely written.  This, as in the others I felt a strong connection between Noel and Rowena. I may be a sucker for romance but I did love this story very much!!	2004-11-01
US	42706701	R32JDFYDKDXJWC	0380817799	948644888	A Rebellious Bride	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A nice love story!	This couple - Marcus and Quinn - did not even know each other.  And it always amazes me how in merry old England of years gone by so many women could be compromised for doing hardly anything.  And this is what happened to Quinn and Marcus - but Quinn's father took advantage of this little misstep and announced Marcus and Quinn to be betrothed.  They marry almost immidiately and what follows is really a very nice love story.  I thought one of the more interesting aspects was that Quinn felt Marcus was very stodgey and reserved - which he certainly was not.  This couple did not fight each other - but allowed a real love to develope while they were both fighting the inequities of the poor in different ways.  I enjoyed this book very much!	2004-10-31
US	42706701	RO94F1FIUQCVK	0380817772	730043149	Rogue's Honor (Saints of Seven Dials Series, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good lighter read!	Every once in awhile I am in the mood for a lighter read - not so much intensity and drama.  This book was one of those. The characters were easy to connect with and you felt the love between Luke and Pearl - which is very important for me a hopeless romantic!!Will be interesting to see how the other books in the series hold up?	2004-10-29
US	42706701	R154H024RU9X7P	0451210654	801353308	Winter Fire	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another Malloren - another fine romance!!	Winter Fire may not have been up to the previous Malloren books for intensity and romance but it still is better than most books available.  The main rouge is Ashart a nephew of Rothgar and he has the usual rake qualities but deep down is a sensitive with a very good heart.  The female is Genova, companion to Ash's elderly aunts - daughter of a naval captain with a wealth of life events to make her far more interesting and challenging than Ash's usual female companions.  The story is set over the Christmas holidays at Rothgar Abbey and fortunately you get to revisit some of the Malloren clan again.  I could have enjoyed a little more into the newly married Bey and Dianna but of course this was not their story.  My only real complaint was the use of to much reference to mythology and old myths that became to confusing and not at all plot worthy to even read!!  Basically it was a great Malloren novel - so if you enjoy this family as I do - you will enjoy Ash and Genova as a compliment to the \\"falling in love\\" Mallorens!!!!!!	2004-10-26
US	42706701	R340C5BRG68US	0451199979	234694502	Devilish	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Rothgar's story did not disappoint in any way!!	Like everyone else I have been waiting for Rothgar's story. He is one of the most charasmatic characters in romantic fiction!  So strong, compelling, gorgeous and mysterious - throughout all the other Malloren books he was the one that did everything for his family - he made all things possible.  And yet he was such a lonely sole and totally intended to never ever marry becuz he felt his mother was mad and he would never want to wed.  He intended to remain alone forever!  One just knew the minute he met Diana in Secrets of the Night that she was finally the one woman that would be able to reach through his armour and finally make him realize that he too needed someone to complete his life.  And for love it was worth taking the risk that he was never able to even consider taking before.  This is a wonderfully written love story, with just enough drama and danger as all the Malloren novels have. I will say again that it is so beneficial to read these books in order - especially to understand the depths of Rothgar's defenses against love and having a family of his own.  I just do not see how one could be disappointed in Devilish!!  I did not think I could enjoy a series as much as Stephanie Laurens Cynasters but the Malloren's are totally in the same first class category!!	2004-10-25
US	42706701	R27NKWOPBTOB2I	1843605562	722962300	Winter Pleasures	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Only complaint - wished it were longer!	I guess books like this often are not very long - but this one was so good I could have read so much more of it!  A real emotional tale on so many levels!!  Very intense, very sexy and certainly erotic -  could not put it down!!	2004-10-24
US	42706701	R91P4DMATCFYW	0758202997	302589332	Secret Pleasures	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Could not put this book down!!	This book was an emotional roller coaster. It was very very intense,  not just the erotic sensuality, but the darker plot that surrounds the story and all of the hidden secrets that everyone in Genelle's life had. Lady Genelle Tinsale was forced into a marriage she never wanted to a much older man. Suddenly her husband has been murdered and of course Genelle is the prime suspect.     Unraveling the plot of the murder mystery is of course quite interesing especially because Genelle becomes oh so very sexually attracted to Rulan Roak the private detective investigating the murder. Needless to say what develops between Rulan and Genelle is very erotic. I guess it depends on ones point of view whether this  was romantic. My own feelings I guess is that if one can find that kind of hot steamy passion in one's life, and if it is erotic, how wonderful.     As they search for the murderer one is taken into the back rooms of the gentlemen's clubs where anyone's wishes can be granted for a price and where the supposed respectable people have more secrets than anyone can imagine.     A very interesting book that I personally could not put down. Maybe my own life has become a bit boring and it was fascinating to escape to a different kind of adventure. Certainly this would not be a book for everyone but I truly enjoyed it and give it a solid five star review.	2004-10-22
US	42706701	R6N9QV1HCC2DT	1562013564	887987074	A Stately English Mansion	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	Pretty hot Victorian read!	This was a pretty good read - enjoyed the characters and the writing.  If this was the true Victorian era --WOW!!  So prim and proper on the outside but lots of sex and domination on the inside.  At times I think the book wondered a bit, including so many characters but I suppose that was to show that the sex and domination was not just in one Victorian estate but it was in many or most of them.	2004-10-20
US	42706701	R3IJ14SH8BP2AE	0451408896	716530883	Secrets of the Night	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Could not put this one down!	For me this was just one of those books that I could not stop reading.  Brand had been a lessor explored character in the first three Malloren books - so I did not know what to expect.  Well he just turned out to be such a sweet, wonderful, caring man.  He is found unconcious on the side of the road by Rosamunde - who has her own very complicated story.  She needs a baby and decides this unconscious man just might be the one to give her one.  Interesting plot - well it becomes a seduction like no other, beautifully written - heart felt - they both become totally captivated by the other.  As in all the other Malloren novels - it seems an impossiblity that they can actually end up together - but don't you love the Malloren motto - that all things are possible!! You also see the beginnings of what will be the next book about Rothgar and Dianna - and you just know that will be explosive!  This is truly a wonderful series by Beverley!!	2004-10-20
US	42706701	R2FBTFWLS89Q9R	0451407806	36208249	Something Wicked	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great read - but could have been better!	I usually do not like books where the heroine is the main character - I prefer it to be the male. And I did not expect to enjoy Elf so much. At 25 she was bored with her life and wanted an adventure.  Always under the thumb of her very protective brothers - they were all out of town and she wanted an adventure. Well, she certainly did that - and the adventure part of the book - and her seduction of Lord Walgrave - her brother in law -- who thought she was a Frenchwoman because she was behind a mask.  Well, this part of the story was perfect.  I felt the connection between Elf and Fort in earlier books and just knew they would be a great couple.  However, the book bogged down in the end - after the adventure was over and Fort realizes that it is Lady Elf that he has seduced - he is not pleased.  Well, he thinks he is not pleased.  The latter part of the book drags with the coming together of these two rightly as a couple.  I could definetely have done with more romance and sizzle in the last quarter of the book.  Again I will stress the need to read these in order - there was so much that I would not have understood had I not read My Lady Notorious first, followed by Tempting Fortune second and this book third.  So much more enjoyable - this is a great series!!!	2004-10-19
US	42706701	R36PI6YLYLXLB0	082177347X	499361031	Tempting Fortune	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good read - much better if read in order!	I read this book several months ago - and relly was quite confused - recently I read My Lady Notorious and realized why - these books need to be read in order.  Why authors do not make this more clear is beyond me - one would think they would want us to enjoy them to the fullest. So much of what happens in Tempting Fortune is based on the relationships of the first book. Tempting is a  good book - I loved Bright Malloren a lot as the male rouge hero - he had for me great appeal.  There were many times though that I found Portia a little hard to take - she seemed attracted but so difficult.  If I were Bright by the end of the book I would have told her to perhaps hit the road.  I thoroughly do enjoy this series of Beverley books and I did the series of the Rouges.  Jo Beverley is one of the best!	2004-10-17
US	42706701	RYA8ZQC5X0RYR	1562013785	986154797	The Governess	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Expected more!	Maybe it is the way it was written - kind of in a distant type of way with no real dialog.  I would have appreciated more real dialog - what did Mr. Crawleigh say to Miss Honeycutt to get her to comply to everything so willingly?  Everything seemed to be written in a vague manner - yes the sex scenes were explicit but you were not able to realize how they got her to comply with everything.  I think this book could have been so much more - I too think the Robin Schone books are much much better.	2004-10-14
US	42706701	R1EOKAGUO8MNUX	0451206444	118302686	My Lady Notorious	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great beginning to the Malloren series!	I really enjoy the works of Jo Beverley.  I enjoyed the rouges series and feel this group will be super as well.  Cyn and Chasity (Charles - as he meets her while she is pretending to be a young man) really have great chemistry.  Cyn immediately realizes she is posing as a man but feels in his gut that she is terrified and needs his help.  He also believes that she will not trust him if he unmasks her - so for at least a third of the book they interact both as males - and some of the scenes are quite amusing.  The plot is a complicated one as the background of Chasity's father and his brutal ways of dealing with his daughters is reveled - and the protection of the highly regarded Malloren family will be the only thing that will perhaps save Chasity from scandal and ruin. I highly recommend this book!!	2004-10-13
US	42706701	RNF2BOZAUS31D	0758204272	656376580	The Lover	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very deep, dark and erotic love story!	This was truly a different type of love story.  The spinster Anne and the very emotionally and physically scarred former whore Michael.  Both are searching for someone to truly care about them - with all their imperfections and faults.  Michael's story runs constantly between sensual and frightening - and you have to be able to handle the darkness with the sensuality.  I would not want to read a lot of books like this because it is more depressing than most - However Robin Schone does a beautiful job of writing an emotional story that is compelling and mysterious. I will read other books by Robin in the future!!	2004-10-11
US	42706701	RCL4754S91XWV	0380789337	232060645	Everything and the Moon (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Love at first sight - if you believe this one is for you!	Every once in awhile one needs to read a lighter more loving less dramatic kind of book. At least I do. That is the type of book this is.  Robert and Victoria fall in love instantly at 17 and 24 - planning to marry their fathers keep them apart.  Both think the other is at fault.  When they accidently meet 7 years later Robert is still bitter and wants revenge and Victoria has decided to safe guard her heart forever. Robert soon realizes that it was not Torrie but his father and hers that kept them from eloping 7 years ago and he wants to win her back.  Torrie who has decided to never allow herself to feel love again resists. And this is the only part I had difficutly with - she just seemed to resist too much.  Robert was a very good and decent man - not like so many of the rouges we read about.  He was kind, sweet, honorable and truly LOVED his Victoria.  Finally she sees the light.  This is not heavy reading but a love story about believing that you can fall in love at first sight and make it last forever.	2004-10-10
US	42706701	R335COPCZ71DCH	038082079X	161550759	An Affair to Remember (Talisman Ring)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Anthony and Anna - you just knew they had to get together!	Anthony Elliot, Earl of Greyley suddenly finds himself the guardian of five very energetic children. Anthony takes this very seriously and realizes he needs a governess as soon as possible. Several governesses later, as these five were a handful he is forced to turn to his sister's best friend, Anna Thaxton. Her reputation for no nonsense approach to child rearing is just what Anthony needs. The problem is Anna cannot stand the Earl and finds him overbearing, stubborn and totally irritating.    Anna has not always been a governess and actually misses her society life. But she and her grandfather are without any funds and Anthony offers her more money than she could possibly make any other way. Both Anna and her grandfather move into Greley House.    Anthony and Anna have been sparring since The Seduction of Sara. They were both so strong willed and opinionated which is quite a combination and an interesting mixture. The old saying there is a fine line between love and hate is really so clearly shown with this blooming love story. Will love eventually win out in this battle of wills?    The strong chemistry between Anthony and Anna makes this a very enjoyable read! But the very clever dialog with other characters, and especially the five children only enhances this book. This is a strong four star keeper and great introduction to this series.	2004-10-09
US	42706701	R2LULX6LVSM21T	0380815265	625565407	The Seduction of Sara	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I absolutely loved this book!	Based on the first two books in this series, I did not expect to like Nicholas Montrose, the Earl of Bridgeton even a little bit. It wasn't that he was a rake but more the he just seemed to be totally lacking in any true feelings for anyone or anything. But along comes Sara Lawrence and although he thought he would just seduce her for his mistress, she was not interested in that role.    Actually Sara was not interested in any role. Sara had already experienced one disastrous marriage to a faithless husband. She did not mourn his death at all. Now all Sara wanted was to be free and on her own. However after each encounter Nick and Sara seemed to have this electrifying connection and finally they give into their feelings and of course Sara is compromised.    Nick, trying to be more of a gentleman and work his way back into society agrees to marry Sara. Actually Nick is quite willing Sara is much more reluctant but they do wed.    There are the demons that plague Nick, headaches that capture the very soul of his being for days at a time. He is convinced that he will eventually die because of these headaches and is determined to never have children and to keep the lovely Sara at arms length. Sara of course is determined to have her love cure him from himself. These demons were the cause of much of Nick's lifelong behavior. One feels utterly heartbroken for him.    If ever there was a story of what can happen when one loves another so deeply that indeed that love conquers all and everlasting love is found this is that book.    Beautiful five star love story. Great ending to this trilogy.	2004-10-08
US	42706701	R2XRI8GZFZ3YMM	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A good solid 4 star book!	Alec MacLean a rake of the first order must marry by midnight or he will lose his inheritance. Not only marry, but the wild Viscount Hunterston must live scandal free following the marriage for a year. Alec needs a wife pronto and he intends to wed the very beautiful Therese Frant. Therese prefers Alec's cousin Nick and had planned to dupe him before the wedding. Even more confusing Alec abducts the wrong Frant, by taking cousin Julia known as the \\"Dragon\\". What happens when a social reformer and the bad boy of society end up wed, sparks for sure!     Julia had loved Alec from afar it seemed like forever. When she hears his problem of needing to marry, she agrees but with a big condition. She wants half of his inheritance money. At least those are her feelings initially. After Alec turns on the charm and he has so much charm and she begins to see the tender hearted wonderful man beneath the rakish exterior, true love begins to bloom. And Alec finds an engaging wonderful very exciting woman beneath the spectacles.     This is a delightful story and at first Julia seems an unlikely heroine for the Devil Alec. There are many layers to Julia, and Alec becomes totally fascinated with her and of course falls in love. If Julia hadn't had intense feelings for Alec she never would have agreed to this marriage, so the potential for romance is quite high which makes for a great read.    Of course there is that little problem of being scandal free for a year. I wonder if bad boy cousin Nick might have something to do with making that quite a challenge?    Great story, a solid four star book. What a great beginning to what promises to be a nice trilogy.	2004-10-07
US	42706701	R34XH12MAAG8NT	0380814714	78646061	So Speaks the Heart (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	0	3	N	Y	Very good for a romantic medieval read!	This is not my favorite time period but I do love Johanna Lindsey books and this was no exception.  The characters were well developed and you truly felt the intense connection between the two characters.  The misunderstandings between them were conceivable and not contrived and totally understandable.  I loved Rowland as the hero - he had been raised under such tough conditions but it had not taken the very core of his good sole away from him. Several of the surprises at the end were touching effects to a beautiful love story!	2004-10-05
US	42706701	R1T42HQKVTL8DA	1575667983	242465334	Seductive	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A different kind of book for me - but still very good!	Elizabeth Massey has been wed seven long miserable years to a much older impotent man, William Massey the Earl of Shenstone. One night while trying again to impregnate Elizabeth, William dies from a heart attack. Perhaps now Elizabeth might finally be able to have a future with Peter Romanov, a Russian who was forced by his family to end their attraction years before.    Before she can take over her dead husbands estate his nephew Nicholas Massey arrives claiming this to be his rightful heir. If Elizabeth wants to remain at Shenstone she may, but only if she agrees to sleep with Nicholas. Even though Elizabeth believes she still is in love with Peter she agrees to Nicholas's advances. Typical of a Devine book the seductive scenes between Elizabeth and Nicholas set the pages on fire.     An electrifying hot book with the alpha male Nicholas fully in control. While I found Thea's characters a little more harsh and not so easy to get a handle on, I still found myself unable to put this book down. The mysterious plot and the way it was written made for a very intense and compelling story. The sexual tension between Nicholas and Elizabeth and the odd mixture of secondary characters just made this an interesting book throughout. I will probably read more of Thea's books because they are a little different and I like a good erotic read with a compelling plot!     Four solid stars for me!	2004-10-05
US	42706701	R1PI5UI1SUMKIY	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Really good romance!	I really wanted to give this 5 stars - for some reason it fell a little short of the first 3 in the series but not by much.  I normally do not like books that focus on the female rather than the male as the main character. Having seen Jacinda through her brothers books I expected her to be a free thinking hellion - I did not expect her to have such a reserve about her.  I think she kept Billy (Lord Rackford) on the hook too long. I mean she practically gave in to him the first night - then it seemed the passion went - where??  He was just such a wonderful hero charming, handsome, tough and with a self doubt about himself that made him totally endearing!!  You just had to fall for Billy Blade! And I think Jacinda did so why did it take so long for him to catch her?  Billy has much to overcome in this book - Jacinda's resistence, conquering the leader of his old rival gang and most of all dealing with a brutal childhood of abuse from his father. This is really Billy's story and Jacinda is not nearly as interesting or as compelling as he is and that was a little disappointing!  Good book - and should be read to complete this series until more are released.	2004-10-02
US	42706701	RY8OOD1V9UFFB	0804119732	191417169	Lord of Ice	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Wow - You just had to love Damien!!	For some reason I just did not expect to love Damien as much as I did Lucein but boy was I wrong!!  Leaving off with Damien in such a dismal state in Lord of Fire and picking up in somewhat the same way in Lord of Ice - Damien is just plagued with a war torn sole.  He planned to shut himself off at his newly claimed estate and alone work out his battlescars. When he learns that he is now a ward of his war friends niece he goes to take care  of his new charge - who of course he thinks will be some  very young girl - not the beautiful Miranda!!  Their meeting is powerful - not knowing that the girl he propositioned the night before was actually Miranda - then he fought for her honor in a rage of vengence when she is attacked on her way back home. Damien and Miranda have formed very strong impressions of each other when they are thrown together as protector and ward the next day at the school.  Slowly but surely after the shock wears off of who they are to one another - and after Damien truly proves himself as a good and gentle man by saving the girls at the school from the cruelty of the head master - Miranda realizes that Damien needs this man and he needs her!  Of course Damien thinks he will be taking her to his family in London and finding her a husband. He thinks he needs no one and is such a miserable sole that he does not deserve anyone as lovely as Miranda.  Lucein encourages Miranda to fight for Damien and save him because he says only love can save Damien.  The scene when she goes to him during the New Years Eve fireworks which are torturing him like cannons in a battle is absolutely beautiful. . . truly a romantic beautifully written scene.  Another very special part of this book - was the linking of all the characters of the other two books -- Robert and Bel  and  Lucein and Alice - plus Jacinda and Alec.  I really love when authors bring you up to date in the lives of family as this series continues. And I disagree with the people that say you do not needto read Lord of Fire or the Duke before. One may not need to by why would you not want to treat yourselves to the complete Knight family.  The ending of this story was absolutely special - this was one fine book by Ms. Foley!!	2004-10-01
US	42706701	R2YLOFZ2DRECB4	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lucien is my kind of hero!!	I absolutely could not put this book down.  Lucien captured me from the beginning - such a tortured sole - not feeling worthy always the \\"other\\" twin.  He went through so much as a spy for the crown - the most profound was his capture by his enemy Bardou.  He is now bent on revenge and at the same time he meets the incredible Alice Montague. Most of the time a dangerous mysterious man like Lucien will never even realize they need love in their life to save them.  That was one of the interesting aspects of Lucien - he realized he needed an Alice in his life and it was so difficult for him to let go of the walls he put around himself and trust this goddess that would indeed save Lucien.  Having read the Duke - which I think is important to understand even more about the Mother of Lucien and another reason he is looking for a pure and truly innocent woman - someone completely different from his mother Georgina.  I cannot say enough about this love story - it was a wonderful read and I would recommend it highly!!	2004-09-28
US	42706701	R3U0L9HYSH5Q2V	0449006360	894257952	The Duke	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	One of the best - EVER!!	I did not expect to love this book so much. I usually do not like heroes that are so stiff and straight laced without a real rouge background and devil attitude. So Robert really surprised me. He just became so human and so involved with Belinda and slowly but surely he was no longer judging her but getting to know her and finally for the first time in his life he was out of his comfort zone -- he was totally in love.  Unfortunately he still had to act like a stuffed shirt and almost at the end lost everything to the TON and all those that expected him to do the correct thing but whether he was forced to realize on his own or whether Juliet's real true love declaring himself at Almacks -- whatever Robert came through in a big way and he didn't just ask for Bel's hand -- he did it in a big way - so there would be no doubt in his true love!! Looking for the others in this series!	2004-09-28
US	42706701	R2MIOZOHX4Q1LL	0804119791	5039678	Ecstasy (Notorious)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	There is nothing hotter or better than Nicole Jordan books!	Whenever I am in a lull with books I pull out an ole favorite and read it again.  Ecstasy I have read over and over.  In my opinion it is one fantastic story.  All in this series for Jordan are so romantic, and sexy and just compelling reads.  The hero in this, Kell Lassiter is just amazing - he exudes the qualities that women are searching for - dark, handsome, charming but a tad dangerous. The way he rescues Raven, after she is kidnapped by Kell's very disturbed younger brother Sean -- and the way their love story developes - yes even after she shoots him - wow -- the dialogue between these two is so stimulating and more than many couples in these romance books this couple you just FEEL them connecting.  I mean the heat just comes literally off the pages.  If you are looking for a great book read anyone of Nicole Jordan's - I think this is the 4th in this series - and as I said they are all incredible -- but ECSTASY IS ONE I'LL BET YOU WILL PULL OUT AND READ AGAIN AND AGAIN!!!	2004-09-23
US	42706701	R3IGATWX3SER67	0312992831	21363897	More Than Seduction	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good romantic read!	Sometimes I come to expect Holt books to be a little steamier than this one and for that I give it only 4 stars.  The premise of the book is a wonderful one -- A defeated, war torn hero so totally shattered with his mind and body that he cares not to live.  When Stephen Chamberlain was left at the doorstep of the 28 year old Anne at her healing spa - that was his condition.  The spinster Anne had no men on her premise and no intention of having any men there.  But Stephen was so pitiful how could she not try to help him.  And the beginning of their interlude showed great promise - I just think Holt could have had Stephen be a tortured sole a bit longer and not so easily start to heal under Anne's care.  You felt the love but it seemed to happen too quickly -  There were the secondary character plots too that were good, Stephen's sister and his best friend Charles (who also had had a rough life) and their love seemed real too.  However I do not think the book was long enough to show all of the character development with both emotional stories.  In addition their is the intrigue of the horrible next door neighbor Willie who was one sick man - thinking he was a magistrate fighting for purity and justice and had quite a little sicko prison of torture next to Anne's healing spa.  This book has a lot of good stuff going on for it but all of it might have been a little bit more developed. With all of this one can see why the bedroom scenes were less frequent and that is kind of a bummer in a Holt book!!  I would give it at least a 4 though and if you are a Holt lover as I am - give it a look most of you will enjoy it very much!	2004-09-22
US	42706701	R25MD7NSFTV4N	055356787X	549526255	Dangerous to Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intrigue, suspense and an incredible romantic story!!	This was my first Thornton book but it will not be my last.  The characters of Julian and Serena were well developed and thouroghly captivating. Because this book was a little longer than most it allowed one to really really get involved in a complicated story with lots of mystery included in the romance.  Julian and Serena had tremendous chemisty - you felt it from the first but they both had such distrust of one another.  Thank goodness for Flynn - without him I fear they may never have made it in the end.  I love books that have a little suspense with the romance and if you do too - you will love this book.  I look forward to many more of Thornton's!!	2004-09-21
US	42706701	R3FLL6KK7GKRF0	0758204329	787273893	Again and Again	Books	5	6	8	N	N	I love Susan Johnson books!!	I guess I am just a total Susan Johnson lover.  I know for sure that many that criticize her books just don't seem to see what I see.  This book was a little more fast paced than some with more of the historical content.  Which is fine for me, because anyone that reads Susan for historical content . . . well why would you read her for that?  Simon and Caroline had grown up together and you could tell that they had had a long history.  Their original breakup 5 years previous was over the usual Simon's philanderings - something that Caroline just could not forget. So a chance meeting 5 years later, a divorce put in the past for Caroline, she was running away penniless to a job as a governess. Meeting by chance at an inn in a snowstorm - they with much anger and resentment fall into each others arms again.  I do not understand anyone saying they were abusesive - they lashed out at each other verbally not unlike other couples that have gone through hurt and untrust.  And that is the core to this couples problems no trust.  Simon for all his many many women cannot seem to deal with Caroline ever being with anyone else.  It drives him crazy!  And Caroline just never thinks that Simon will ever change.  But oh my the chemisty is there - and isn't that why we read Susan Johnson??  I will give this book 5 stars if for no other reason than I love Susan's books, I was thrilled to have her write one in this period of British history and she can write bedroom scenes like no other.  Keep it up Ms. Johnson!!	2004-09-20
US	42706701	R1TPM9OP5I0WXP	0505524074	82811022	Devil in the Dark (Candleglow)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	wonderful book - could not put this one down!	My type of hero from the first moment - dark, sensual and mysterious.  Gideon called the Devil Duke had a reputation that would send most women running but not the heroine Lucinda.  Maybe it was her American background she just did not care about so many of the things that Gideon supposedly did that were unconventional to the proper English.  But mostly I think they just had that heartfelt connection - he called her \\"his light\\" and she just knew there was so much more to Gideon than he was willing to show. This story had a beautiful mystery running through it but mostly it was just a beautiful love story!!  Wish Ms. Rogers would write many more British romances!!	2004-09-19
US	42706701	R2CBNJT64ACQK3	0553583565	40003658	Stealing Heaven (Medievals)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good but at times it dragged a bit!	For me this one was not quite what the others in this grouping have been.  Marcus was a true romantic hero - so good to see him all grown up from that boy in By Design.  Also it was good to see him fall desperately in love with the heroine Nesta - and to have the most difficult of complications for their love - even more difficult than his sister did which at a young age Mark did not understand the concept of \\"Love!\\"  But Marcus truly falls instantly in love with Nesta a strongwilled woman with a reputation which they never completely explained (one problem I had with this book) and a will to reclaim her families property in Wales and restore the power to the Welsh.  All these would her in threat of being a traitor to the English Marcus.  To say nothing for the complication of Nesta being a past parimour of King Edward.  This was not totally explained either - maybe half heartedly at the end.  However the very explicet strong chemisty between these two was felt instantly and for that the story kept by interest as all good romantic novels should. Some of the power struggle between the Welsh, Scots, English, Bards, Marchers and bandits just got a little confusing at times - thank goodness for the romance!!!	2004-09-18
US	42706701	R1825NWJIHYKGJ	0553582232	937215647	By Design (Medievals)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Excellent compelling story!	I think this is probably about a 4 1/2 for me -- not quite as good of a love story as Possession - but still very good.  Sometimes these books are a little confusing as to what order they are best read in - and also the characters -- since there was a Joan in By Arrangement - at first I thought that was the same Joan.  And I am thinking the David in this book was the same one that later is the merchant. This was however a good love story and Rhys who I absolutely did not like in By Design you came to know in this book and he was really quite a wonderful man.  You definetly feel the love between Joan and Rhys and root for them to eventually get together!	2004-09-15
US	42706701	R3OPHVI325SBNY	0425193713	95118327	Personal Assets	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Loved this book!	Although I am less a fan of contemporary novels I always seem to like Emma Holly books. She has a great blend of hot steamy reads and good plots.  This book was no exception - these characters were deep and very complicated and all pretty adverse to commitments - but they all through their various sexual escapades actually show the intensity of the true relationships developing.  Holly just does a great job with a good plot, actual romance and hot sex!  Really really great read!	2004-09-15
US	42706701	R2CF3QXZEOVLGU	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Absolutely beautiful love story!!	By Possesion is just a wonderful love story.  You really feel the intense passion of Addis and Moira.  I could not put this book down.  Addis had such a difficult and challenging life and had been severely injured with scars both outside and inside.  The ones on the outside would heal but it truly would take the steadfast love of Moira to heal the ones on the inside.  Moira had loved Addis all her life - eventually when he realized that he would become whole again.  And might just take that risk that their \\"stations\\" in life would not matter as much as living without each other.  Like so many Hunter books this one just sizzles with the depth of the feelings this couple have for one another!  GREAT GREAT BOOK!!	2004-09-13
US	42706701	R22OWS2B65F8JR	0553582224	122122279	By Arrangement (Medievals)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good beginning for this series!	The Arrangement was a good story - maybe not quite as compelling as some I have read recently but still very good.  I enjoyed Christina as a heroine and very much enjoyed David.  He had so many many layers to his personality and it was a main part of the story watching them being pealed away - and wondering where his loyalites really lied.  I am looking forward to the other books in this series.	2004-09-11
US	42706701	RQXRJP6DXS4NO	038077075X	622004674	Charmed	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good book - somewhere between a 3 and a 4	Thirty years after being switched at birth by his father's mistress and left at the doorstep of Viscount Hunsington where he was raised in a loving environment, Calum Innes returns to London to claim all of what is rightfully his including the Dukedom.  Calum wants it all, everything that the impostor, the Duke of Franchot has including his finance Lady Philipa Chauncey.    Lady Phillipa (Pippa) eventually succumbs to Calum's advances but when she discovers the reason behind his pursuit she is furious and wants nothing to do with him. She also believes she is honor bound to marry the man she has been betrothed to since birth.    This story was good, a little different than many I have recently read  but at times it seemed to drag. I liked Calum but sometimes he seemed a little too good or perhaps I just prefer a but more darker rouge type. For the great wrong that was done this man one would have seemed he would have turned out a little more ruthless. he seemed to accepting.  I guess there is a lot to be said for a loving environment which of course was the Scottish home he was raised in.    Pippa was an interesting heroine too but she didn't quite overly excite me either.  I guess too I prefer a little more true romantic moments.  The romance was not a significant element of the story. I will read the others in this series but hope they get a little more interesting. Just three stars for me.	2004-09-09
US	42706701	R7PDOFQZ5GRD0	0821774174	76400770	Beyond A Wicked Kiss (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	5 STARS PLUS!  West's story is the BEST!!	I bought this book first then realized that there were three others and believed (correctly) that they should be read in order. North, South, East and West - while they occur at the same time you appreciate them all much better if read in that order.  As for West and Ria - wow - this was a true love story.  The pace of it and the development of their love was so real and even better than the previous three.  And West himself - while not so much apart of the other books was so distinct from the others - more of a real person.  Perhaps because he was not of title born, though he would find out that he had been.  But he was just more of a man's man - And Ria well she was just priceless - she just did what she felt like so often and those appearances in West's bedroom in the night early on were just priceless.  And the underlying story once again about the Society of Bishops was even more relative to West and Ria's story than even the other three.  This was just from start to finish the best of the best.  Actually the Compass Club is one of the best groupings or series that I have ever read and Jo Goodman get high marks for her writings.  I would love like a previous reviewer said if she could write one more - bringing the lives of all three together as one.  It would be fascinating to see how the women would interact with one another.  I absolutley recommend this book and the other three!!	2004-09-06
US	42706701	R1ZJI7SYNRX2VX	0821774166	511465916	All I Ever Needed (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Got better the longer you read!!	I agreed with the other reviewer that the first part of this book really dragged.  If I had not felt so invested in the Compass Club reading both North and South's stories I may have been tempted to set it aside.  But I LOVED the first two books and really liked East and wanted to read about his love.  I am not sure why the first part dragged - I think the main reason is that Sophie held so much back - if I had really sensed early on that she was totally infatuaed with East from a previous meeting and she feared for his life if they got involved maybe I would have felt more ingaged in their story from the beginning.  However the story only got better and finally at Tremont Hall it really begins to catch your heart and the last half of the book might even deserve 5 stars.  It is odd in the end you get an even better feeling of contentment from East and Sophie than North and South and their loves.  I am looking forward to West's story and I agree that a reunion book about the group would be the best way to engage them all in each others lives since all their tales are written simultaneously.  Again it does help to read North first followed by South, East and lastly West!	2004-09-04
US	42706701	R2CGAL2OR9ZK8M	1575668041	21470983	Tempting	Books	4	5	5	N	N	So much better than the reviews I read here!	I read the reviews but certainly do not base what I read here on whether I will buy or enjoy a book.  This is a great example of a book that I found much better than its reviews.  I found this couple falling in love or initially lust so quickly and very believable.  And lets face it when you buy a Johnson book you are looking for a little heate in the writing and this book certainly delievered on that score.  Max and Christina really seemed to find a connection quickly and for me it was exciting and I enjoyed the read!!  I would say give this book a chance if you are a Susan Johnson lover!!	2004-08-31
US	42706701	R16PUO8LG6VYQH	0821768689	509536497	Everything I Ever Wanted (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This series might be one of the best ever!!	Jo Goodman really has incredible depth to her characters.  Maybe it is the extra 75 or more pages she adds to her books to make them a little more complete than the average.  I am not sure what it is but the tale of South and India was ever bit as compelling as North and Elizabeth.  What a story - how India had suffered with her life before meeting South.  And the love between them just sizzled.  Again bringing in the other members of the Compass Club - just to intertwine their stories is a unique touch by Goodman.  These stories all run rather simultaneous to each other although it is better to read them in order. I just loved this book - South and Elizabeth were an exciting, very real heartfelt couple.  Defintetly one of the better books I have read - impossilbe to put down!!!	2004-08-30
US	42706701	R13G7BQBD56UIB	0821768670	57462297	Let Me Be The One (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A 5 STAR Plus Book!!!!  Perfect story!!	When I hear about a series I always try my best to read them in order. I was very frustrated to find the first in this series \\"Let me be the one\\" to be out of print.  It was very difficult to find this book but WELL WORTH THE HUNT!  This is my favorite kind of book.  The main two characters really fell in love.  They did not expect it Lord North was not looking for a wife when he seeked out Elizabeth at house party.  But with each conversation between the two they found something in one another that intrigued them - and slowly but surely you just felt their relationship sizzel and come alive!  Libby had major complications in her life that she felt had put her totally on the \\"shelf\\" so they like to say.  But North was a smart enough man - and had the courage to really see Libby for what she was and not what she thought she had become.  It just is so romantic and there is just enough intrigue with looking for the \\"Gentleman Thief\\" and of course the relationship between the Compass Club four!  If there is any way you can find this book - it is a wonderful story - and a must read!  Truly one of the best books I have read in a very long time!!	2004-08-26
US	42706701	RUCOO60K3LSGX	0312987846	657099004	The Spy (Liars Club, Book 3)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Absolutely the best in the series!!!!	The Spy, the third in this series and so far the best of all. In the first two, The Impostor and The Pretender there were several unresolved issues that were subsequently wrapped up in The Spy, which only added to my enjoyment of this book.    Phillipa Atwater has a missing father who has left her the message to \\"watch out for James Cunningham\\". What better way to keep an eye on him, than to gain entrance to his home, posing as a young man who will tutor his nine year old son. A very close friendship develops between James and \\"Flip\\" as she is truly able to get close as friend while posing as a lad. It was a unique way for them to connect and for me it really worked. I just loved Flip as she was so endearing. James was able to talk to her (him) and finally deal with some of his earlier heartaches. Phillipa becomes quite smitten with James and it is difficult to keep up the ruse of being a male.    There was more depth to this story and not as much light hearted humor as the first two. James and Phillipa are a great romantic couple and the fantasy harem dancer scene was just so very romantic. This book was an absolute page turner that I could not put down. I give it five stars plus and cannot wait to read The Charmer, for more excitement from this great series.    I suggest reading these in order as it will really enhance the pleasure and you will appreciate and understand the events so much more.	2004-08-23
US	42706701	R16LM41RA8D7TJ	0312984855	462073235	The Pretender (Liars Club, Book 1)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A very special book!	Searching for her missing brother James, Agatha Cunningham heads to London and follows a trail that leads her to the Liars Club. Agatha pretends to be a married lady in London society but when she has to produce a husband quickly she looks to Simon Rains a handsome chimney sweep.    Simon the chimney sweep of course is not who he pretends, but instead a member of the Liar's Club (a group of rogues and thieves who work as intelligence gatherers for the Crown). Simon is actually searching for Agatha's brother whom he believes has committed treason.    However as Simon pretends to be Agatha's husband, he begins to develop deep feelings for her. These two have a sizzling connection almost immediately. And the dialog and humor between them is so very interesting and enjoyable.    This book reminds me of an old fashioned romantic comedy and what a great beginning to the Liars Club series. I cannot wait to read them all. This was definitely a five star book with romance, humor and intrigue what a combination.	2004-08-15
US	42706701	ROVSUJPLQAT4	0821775995	756239827	Forbidden (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Best so far of this series!	I would never ever suspected that Francis who almost seemed boring in Arranged Marriage would turn out to be such a compelling character.  He really stirred my blood - although he was a tad ackward about knowing what he needed to do to conquer Serena's fears in the bedroom - my goodness talk about an opposite paring - Serena had been a used woman in her first marriage and Francis was a virgin! What a complete opposite twist in a romance.  This story just shows so much emotion and such a great love is eventually formed between these two characters.  The way Beverely brings the other Rouges into the story - once again is beautiful - I love them all!  But I am not sure Francis might be my favorite!  READ these books in order though - you will enjoy them so much more!!	2004-08-12
US	42706701	R22XEIBZU7WJT4	0821768433	538094232	Christmas Angel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love this series - Jo Beverley is a super writer!!	This was a very romantic read - not quite as spicey as the bedroom scenes were rather weak and kind of awkward.  However the two characters were very endearing and you really can see a wonderful relationship developing between them.  Judith's children were adorable and Leander was quite taken by them.  One of the very best parts of this series is that Beverely always keeps you updated on the characters that were introduced before. This is one of the reasons I love this series so much - a little like the Cynster novels of Stephanie Laurens.  In Christmas Angel both Nicholas and Lucien are brought into the story in significant ways and it really solidifies the friendship of this company of rouges.  I love this series!!	2004-08-10
US	42706701	RJDLJ2E3M10SH	0821767240	241236721	An Unwilling Bride (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Another great in this series of Rouges!!	First off, I too wish it were easier to know that some books are part of a series.  Had I not known this, I might not have read these books in the order that they are written - this being the second after An Arranged Marriage. In the latter you begin to see what a delight Lucien is - a flirt, carefree, sincere friend and very conscious of his family and obligations. So, when he is forced to marry someone he has never met - for the sake of the family heritage he does it with charm, grace & honor.  He really really tries - however Beth the lady he is forced to marry absolutely makes no attempt at all.  Actually for about the first 3/4 of this book she totally aggrivates me.  The worst was when she tries to disuade Lucien by implying that she is not a virgin but has had many lovers.  This unfortunate bit of information which she later takes back will for a long time come between these two characters and this I feel is what provokes Lucien to strike her later in the book - actually if I would have been Lucien I might have been tempted to strike her long before.  I think those that find this scene totally outrageous completely misunderstand the way of things back in the 1800's.  They are applying todays standards to a time long ago.  Lucien was immediately devistated by his actions and Beth remorseful and completely forgiving - because she realized her earlier actions were what cause this.  Another part of this book that is so wonderful is revisiting Nicholas and Eleanor again - they had a rough go in Arranged Marriage and it is wonderful seeing how much in love they are.  It also gave hope for Lucien and Beth - who obviously had obsticles through most of the book.  I love this series and would recommend them highly.	2004-08-08
US	42706701	R24KQYSM49VX6Q	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Now, THIS WAS A GREAT BOOK!!	I am so glad that I do not select my books based on the reviews!! <br />If that were the case I might have missed one of the best stories I have read recently, An Arranged Marriage.  Somehow I feel that those people that rated this book only one or two stars must have been reading a different book than I just read - all in one sitting I might add, because I could not put it down. Nicholas was one of the best male characters I have found in a book recently.  He absolutely was the hero!  He was a hero to his country, this had been his life prior to his brother getting him involved with Eleanor.  He married Eleanor out of love for his brother.  He owed nothing to her!!  The fact of the matter, he instantly did feel a great deal for her!! I thought he muddled through it the best that he could - using his own words that he muddled through!!  Did he keep up a pretense with his mistress for many many months, yes!  Was this an affair of the heart no - the author carefully does not even have us share any scenes of this affair.  We do not get emotionally involved in it because Nicholas was in no way involved!!  He kept it up because he had committed to reveiling Theresa as a spy - he was in fact doing it for his country.  The only way he could keep up this pretense was by not going to his wife's bed.  This hurt Eleanor - but he felt it would have hurt her more to go back and forth.  I loved the way he brought her into the group of his friends - the company of Rouges.  What great friends, they actually honorably tried to keep Eleanor busy and sidetracked through this time of Nicholas's affair.   I just could go on and on about this book.  I absolutely would give it 5 stars plus and encourage one and all to read this wonderful, heartfelt story!!  I am so lucky, this is the first Jo Beverly novel I have read and I cannot wait to read the rest, most especially about the other rouges.  But it will be a long time before I fall in love with another quite as wonderful as Nicholas!!	2004-08-06
US	42706701	R3D7FMS6Q1BUAT	0553582534	368339480	Temporary Mistress (St. John-Duras)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another good Susan Johnson book!!	Although not quite as steamy as other Johnson books - for me this was still a very good romantic read.  I like Isebella and Dermott as a couple - thought the chemistry was good.  Always love the hero to have a tortured past and loosing your wife and son certainly make Dermott that kind of brooding rouge.  I think the only thing missing was some of the steaminess we come to look for in Johnson books!  I would totally recommend this novel!!	2004-08-05
US	42706701	RVNLP72Q9N3GP	0061013897	832356175	The Black Angel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Truly enjoyed this great book!	Tyanan and Riana for me were a very intriguing couple. First off, she was more of the rake for their time period. Living down a scandal that truly had such devistating effect on her family was rather incredible. Tyanan who was supposed to have a rakish reputation seemed with the death of his brother a truly changed person. The couple had much to deal with - with their arranged marriage. Riana was so determined to not allow her feelings to be real and Tyanan with so many complicated reasons for wanting to make this a real marriage. The slow patient way that Tyanan &quot;courts&quot; Riana is very real and by the time they are a true couple you feel the love between them. I think the only sad part is knowing what they would have to face down the road - so many many obsticles it is hard to imagine that they had a fairy tale ending after the book ends!	2004-08-01
US	42706701	R3KTCP9G3VT37X	0380821109	123883724	His Bride (The His Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	By far the best in this series!!	I read all three of the books by Callen in this series His Betrothed, His Scandal and now His Bride.  For me the story of Edmund and Gwyn was bar far the best of the series.  And I think for this series it is helpful to read them in order because the author does not exactly explain the relationship of the characters in the other books.  Certainly after reading the second book about Alex it was clear how Edmund got into the situation with the Langster family.  It also clearly made sense why Edmund was so untrusting of Gwyn at the beginning of their marriage.  But Gwyn was a determined and engaging young lady and wanted to make this a real marriage.  For me this was a beautiful love story and the most romantic of the three books. I would recommnend all of the series but think this one the best!!	2004-07-31
US	42706701	R2WY084HDN3LN5	0380813777	377288041	His Betrothed	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good book - looking forward to the sequel!	I enjoyed this book -- It was not quite the in depth story as those by other romantic authors but still I felt the romance between Spencer and Roselyn.  I am often facinated by men like Spencer who because of their birth and history often feel inadequate or less worthy and finally when they meet and get to know the right woman they let their guard down and really become all they can be as a loving person.  This is what eventually happened between this couple and it was a romantic read for me!! <br />As I said I am looking forward to the next two books in the series.	2004-07-28
US	42706701	R2D7QEW2AQL9D4	0440226015	466643093	More than a Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A book to enjoy!!	This was my first Mary Balogh book and I thoroughly enjoyed it.  While maybe not as intense in the bedroom as some books it still was a great love story.  I read in one of the other reviews that it really unveils the hearts of its characters and that is what is most endearing about the story of Jocelyn and Jane - they both have such layers to their personalities - both hiding their inner selves - Jane in fear of discovery and Jocelyn becuz no one has ever known the depths to his real self.  Slowly but at a comfortable pace these two truly do fall in love and it is a beautiful story.  I am looking forward to other Mary Balogh books!!	2004-07-26
US	42706701	R1M2SX8ZS9FALZ	0380809176	870536543	Meet Me at Midnight (With This Ring, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Beautiful story - great romantic read!	I have always enjoyed Enoch's books and this one was no exception!  Vixen and Sin were actually a perfect couple.  Both were pretending to be something they were not and both were actually bored with the lives they had been leading.  Thrown together but not really against their will - they quickly found there was much to each others personalities than what others perceived.  There is just enough intrigue in the plot to add to the romance.  I really enjoyed this Enoch romance and would highly recommend it!!!	2004-07-23
US	42706701	R16K6T900G1IDU	0553563289	96734634	Love Storm	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good but not the best Susan Johnson book!	I really enjoy Susan Johnson books -- and I did like this one.  However Sasha would not be one of my favorite male characters.  He was one of the most spoiled males in all of the books I have read.  He just seemed to have no real purpose in life other than drinking (he must have been an alcoholic) and having sex - constantly - thus he is nicknamed the \\"Archer\\"  I think one of my favorite parts of the book was when Zena's grandfather - beats him prior to his marriage to Zena.  I wanted to club him by then myself!!  On the otherhand Zena was not perfect either - her reaction to the rape was not exactly normal.  And when Sasha questioned the parentage of his son - becuz he was blonde - that was very irritating too.  Thank goodness the eyes after a few days appeared golden or Zena would have been in trouble.  Having said all of this - Susan Johnson truly writes a good sexy erotic somewhat romantic story and if you like her books you will probably enjoy this in the Kuzan series!	2004-07-14
US	42706701	R2NJ0YXWT3BEKZ	0553572148	740349943	Wicked (St. John)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Sexy Read!	I think the only problem I had with this story was the age of Beau - I think for him to have that much sexual history and still that much desire for variety it is unrealistic to expect that he would really be faithful at 22 years of age to anyone.  Most of the books about such rakes are usually about those in their late 20's at least.  Even Beau's father Sinjin was 30 when he finally gave in to one woman.  So, having said that I still enjoyed the story of Beau and Serena and while not quite as compelling as Sinjin's and Chelsea's, in Sinful it still is a worthy read for all Susan Johnson lovers. I hope at some point Susan writes a story about Beau's sisters and their dealings with men and their sexual liaisons - it would be interesting seeing Sinjin and Beau deal with daughters and sisters and libertines, as they were!!!	2004-07-13
US	42706701	R2PDSDRHU927J6	051512088X	46135796	Rosehaven (Song Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Medival Read!!	Perhaps those that criticize this book do so not understanding the difference between the sexes during the medieval period and later regency times. I am not as fond of earlier period books but Rosehaven is to me an exception.  I loved Severin and Hastings and found their romance very intriging and interesting - certainly not in any ways boring.  For a couple that was thrown together in an arranged marriage - they both certainly came together in the end in such a loving and compelling manner - for that period of time it was a true love story.  Catherine Coulter is one of the few authors that seems to have great loves stories both in modern times and in the past.  She wins again for me with Rosehaven!!	2004-07-10
US	42706701	R3UCAYVGLT4K2N	055329959X	560667385	Silver Flame	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Maybe the best Johnson book!!	I read Forbidden first and totally fell in love with the romance of Daisy and the Duc -- but then read Silver Flame and wow -- this might be better.  I imagined Trey to be drop dead georgeous and what a ladies man he was - which of course was the whole problem after he meets Empress (under the most unusual circumstances) she never can quite get past his history with women. If she could have only trusted him a little more they would have saved a year of such pain between them.  By the time they meet again - it is Trey that is not trusting of Empress and one keeps hoping that his pride will finally let down and he will admit the love he has been carrying with him and they will finally get back together.  This is really a great love story - both characters are very real and you totally feel the love.  The Braddock Black series is one of the best of all time!!!	2004-07-06
US	42706701	RQMD5M5GPY997	0553291254	556846790	Forbidden	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Now this is a LOVE STORY	Not nearly as steamy as I would have thought - especially with the Duc being the most notible &quot;lover&quot; in all of France - but this man clearly falls in love at 39 for the first time in his life. The love between him and Daisy is so strong - you really feel for them as a couple and all the obsticles they must overcome to finally be together.  But unlike other Johnson stories that have their share of hot moments - Johnson seemed to rely more on the intensity of their love - it was very sensual and very compelling.  You just feel the love between this couple more than many other novels that I have read.  I am looking forward to Silver Flame now - to read more about this great family of Daisy's.	2004-07-04
US	42706701	R2KUFDB56NFLO5	0515131687	863649242	Once A Mistress	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I Loved This Book!!	This was my first book by Rebecca Hagan Lee and I absolutely loved this story.  I find stories where the couple our kept apart for some reason or another usually an interesting read and this one might be the best ever.  I truly was glued to the plot and though I had some thoughts on what truly happened 4 years earlier in Wren's life I was still a bit surprised by the ending. And oh my do I love Andrew's father - he really would have made a great book all on his own.  You just have to love his creativity to get his son back to the love of his life. I can absolutley recomend this book - it was just a great romantic story!!	2004-07-01
US	42706701	RK719QBMCLS85	0060503548	524136782	All Men Are Rogues	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great read - only got better as it went along!	This was my first book by Sari Robins and I will certainly look for more of her books.  For me, this started a little slowly - I just didn't feel the connection between Jusin and Evelyn.  Maybe it was becuz she actually liked him - in most books there is the immediate tension. Of course as you continue into the story you find more than enough tension - enough so you are never certain whether this couple will ever get together.  The intrigue with the masterful plot of treason and the motive behind the colonel and his quest to capture Evelyn make for a very good story.  In the end this was a beautiful love story and I thorougly enjoyed it!	2004-06-25
US	42706701	R13FU0J5PROV6Y	0380815257	669363336	A Belated Bride	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I just loved this book!	Arabella Hadley will never forget her one true love, Lucien Deveraux the man who broke her heart years ago when he disappeared to London. She cannot believe that one night on a deserted country road the man she has longed for is lying unconscious. Maybe she should just leave him there!    Lucien has never forgotten the beautiful Bella even though he did desert her ten years ago. Now as he is found along side the road by this amazing angel and she nurses him back to life perhaps he can regain her trust and love once again.    Arabella has two determined marriage minded aunts Emma and Jane that just manage to compromise the couple so they must wed. Lucien is thrilled but Bella refuses to allow her feelings to be engaged again, as the hurt still is in her heart.    There is just something about Lucien that I found totally captivating. It is one thing for a woman to not get over a man but I find it even more compelling when such a handsome rogue after ten years has not gotten over his Bella. I was reminded in the Abduction of Julia what a lost sole Lucien continued to be and when you read this story you are so happy that he again is reunited with the true love of his life. Lucien is one of the best male heroes I have read in a long time.    Excellent book a very solid five star, page turner.	2004-06-24
US	42706701	R1831CKT8TOL0O	0061087122	683956970	Master of Seduction (Sea Wolves Series)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Good book - not a fantastic Kinley book!	Everyone of the MacAllister series and the knight books I absolutely loved and gave 5 stars too.  I just did not feel either Jack nor Lorelei were the compelling characters as in the other books.  Jack started out too cockey and too sure of his seductive powers and Lorelei seemed all to sure of her powers to make any man fall to her charms.  Neither quite appeared vulnerable enough to really make you feel as strongly for them, as in the other Kinley books.  Still I do like Kinley's style of writing and found even this book better than many many other novels out there.  And I will give a go at Pirate of her Own about Morgan.	2004-06-12
US	42706701	RNNV52YOZC6RK	0060565411	391323981	A Dark Champion (Brotherhood of the Sword, Book 1)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Another great book by Kinley!!	I have really come to love the Kinley MacGregor books and this one is no exception.  Stryder was a strong noble knight that really just swept Rowena away - which is so totally unlikely since she has always claimed she had no use for the dark deadly knights!!  They both were so strong in their belief in never falling in love he becuz his father loved his mother too much that he died becuz of it and his mother apparently never loved his father.  For Rowena she wanted a deep love and she thought a gentle jester type man was right for her, until she meets the complete opposite in Stryder.  Then she finds slowly but surely all the gentle soulful qualities she always had been looking for in this wonderful man.  It is truly a beautiful love story and a hard to put down book.  Cannot believe I have a year to wait for Christian's story!!	2004-06-10
US	42706701	R2UR9E639MDBW8	0061087130	349244617	Master of Desire (MacAllister Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Kinley does it again!	Master of Desire was the second book I have read by Kinley MacGregor and while I liked it - I did not think it was quite as good as Born In Sin which I rated 5 big stars!!  Draven  Lord Ravensood was another tortured rouge and determined to never allow love in his life.  He felt he did not deserve love and when Emily is forced by the king to become his ward for a year everything he ever believed of himself is challenged by this lovely female.  It is a romantic tale and I truly enjoyed it. Kinley does have a real ability to bring characters alive and make you really care about how their lives unfold!!  I would recommend any book by this author.	2004-06-04
US	42706701	RTVZVKPPL5BL1	038081790X	118708766	Born in Sin: A MacAllisters Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	So good - I could not put it down!	Rarely do I just sit down in one evening and read all nite but this book was just that good!! I also normally do not enjoy books from the earlier time period as much, but again Born in Sin is a total exception.  I found myself totally caught up in this man's (Sin's) life of  tragedy.  It was just so horendous what he indured.  I realize things like this certainly happened in this time period but it was just such a compelling story.  For me the love of Callie was just so beautiful and I just thought it an incredible love story.  I am looking forward to many more of MacGregor's books.	2004-06-02
US	42706701	R19ZIQEA4FU5CY	0804119759	887712531	Devil Takes a Bride	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Devil - Terrific read!	This is my first book by Gaelen Foley and I thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it.  One can really feel for Devil - his story is so tragic and the way he dealt with the pain of loosing his family is so very believable and hearbreaking.  I also just knew that he was not so cold hearted as they wanted you to think early on - he came from such a loving family.  Lizzie was the perfect match for him and &quot;Old Ironsides&quot; knew that and had a great plan to keep this couple together.  I found this a great love story and a could not put down read.  I think my only criticizm would be maybe one more chapter at the end to thoroughly enjoy the reuniting of Devil and Sarah.  Sometimes I think authours forget how much we want these happy endings and they hurry the end.  For Devil to finally have Sarah again would have been more wonderful than almost anything and I think several more pages on this would have been a nice special touch.  I am looking forward to reading many more of Gaelen novels!	2004-06-01
US	42706701	R194KYUYYFUEET	0312963912	619222450	Splendor	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Splendor is SPENDID!!	This is my first book by Brenda Joyce but it will not be my last. and I am very glad that I do not read reviews before I decide what to read becuz some of the reviews here were surprisingly not as favorable as I felt the book was.  I thought Nicholas and Caroline were a true tortured couple that kept fighting to survive their love.  When I realized what short time had passed from when they first met to the end of the book it is hard to encompass all the difficulties they lived and loved through.  I thought both Nicholas and Caroline were beautifully written and their love story a heartfelt one indeed.  I will now buy more of Brenda Joyes's novels!!	2004-05-30
US	42706701	R3S7Q0C3PH48AP	0446611298	227179454	Seduced	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Seduced - Pamela Britton	This was my first Britton book and I am anxious to read more. I was surprised at some of the negative reviews because I thought it was an intense book that really showed how a couple with a strong initial dislike for one another can actually find a deep ever lasting love.    Lucien St. Aubyn has been called the Duke of Death because several people close to him have mysteriously died, most recently his brother by Lucien's very own pistol. Lucien has quite a reputation as a rake and loves the challenge of seducing women, even those that seem to loathe him. He sets out to seduce Elizabeth Montclair when he spies her across the room at a society event. Elizabeth is lowborn and not really Lucien's equal. She immediately despises Lucien but as they are found together, without a chaperon she is thoroughly compromised. Lucien offers marriage and they do wed but with Elizabeth so leery of this man any happiness for them might be impossible.    Elizabeth Montclair was not only leery she loathed him. Well when one has such strong feelings it is no surprise that they both ended up being quite a compelling couple. Lucien St Aubyn was quite a rake, and his past, with all the deaths in his family, and the tales of his sexual exploits, what female wouldn't be leery? How this couple deals with each other and how a trust begins to develop is quite interesting. Of course things heat up in the bedroom first and some of these scenes were really hot and made for explosive reading.    And then the whole book becomes even more compelling when Lucien is taken to trial for killing his brother. This part of the book is just so very intense and so very emotional, a real story of love and believing in someone and that it is possible to reform a rake.    I had no idea Britton's books could be this good. I give this a solid four stars and look forward to reading more from Pamela.	2004-04-29
US	42706701	R2LB36IDZSDAJL	0515133086	310927993	Beyond Seduction	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beyond Seduction  Emma Holly	I wish there were a 100 Emma Holly books out there - instead of only a few.  There was just something about these characters that was so compelling - Merry &amp; Nicolas were everything you want in a romantic couple.  The story was very compelling -- Nicolas had realistic deamons to overcome and the way they were worked through was thoughtful and heartfelt.  Merry was a strongwilled type that thought she didn't want any of the things that were part of a husband and marriage but when true love of this intensity hits it just shows what you think you want isn't always true.  I could have read more and more about this couple -- as it was I spent one night devouring their story!  Emma Holly you are the best since Stephanie Laurens!!  Keep the novels coming!	2004-04-20
US	42706701	R2TFWJFNT9527F	0553299557	663761094	Outlaw	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Outlaw by Susan Johnson	This is the second Susan Johnson book I have read - and I am very impressed with both -- the first being Sinful.  She has a way of getting you immediately involved with the characters and you really appreciate how the rouge Johnnie had quite a life of fun sexual escapades before he meets Elizabeth and how all that changes once he falls in love for the first time.  Since Elizabeth is English and Johnnie is a Laird of the Scots you realize how impossible this love affair will be -- but some times love conquers all and you are really cheering them on all the way.  Great love story!!	2004-04-12
US	42706701	R3T3QEZ2025C8U	0843951354	441281383	Lord Ruin	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Lord Ruin	I just finished this book last nite - truly could not put it down.  There was something about Lord Ruin - Cynnsyrr and Anne that for me made them a very compelling couple.  They were thrown together in a very unusual way and it would certainly seem that they were mismatched but early on you could tell how facinated Cynnsyrr was with Anne's qualities and he was nothing what Anne expected him to be.  There was so much more depth to him as a person, she had expected just a rake and nothing more.  She would eventually find out how wrong she was.  The mystery of the abductions was an interesting storyline and it threw the couple into helping one another and showed Anne's value to Cynnsyrr and also how committed he was to the cause of these poor women.  The ending was perfect - I kept wondering how Anne would eventually truly believe his love - and that was a perfect way.  I would love to hear that Carolyn Jewel would write a follow up for Devon and Emily that would be a good read I am sure.  To me Ms. Jewel reminds me of Stephanie Laurens - my absolute favorte author!	2004-04-05
