US	42856203	R1E0ZR7AWZ2MYZ	0451456084	475679568	Deathstalker War (Owen Deathstalker, Vol. 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the best Si FI books I have ever read	Mr. Green's Deathstalker series is addictive gripping and just plain fantastic.  From the first page to the last you are hooked and eager to want to know what happens next.  I actually heard this book in a five volume audio series available on Amazon complete with music and sound effects.  The book along with the first two books Deathstalker and Rebellion are read by a series of actors who do a fine job indeed.  They make the pages of the printed book come alive and you never want to turn your player off.  The characters in this series are some of the best ever created and hats off to Mr. Green for not relying soly on stereo types too often found in Si Fi and Fantasy books.  Yes you have those of course, they are a corner stone of any good Si Fi book but Mr. Green has also created characters here which are wild wacky and just plain delicious.  My favorite has got to be Valentine Wolf.  He is cunning, ruthless and you just got to love his disposition.  His lines are some of the best on the audio version and you can tell the actor had a ball with him.  This series has lots of surprises along with tons of action.  The final scenes in the throne room with the Empress are the best.  You just got to love Lionstone even though she is known as the Iron B*****h.  The ending was unexpected where she was concerned.  Another reason to read this fine series is that it is abit more gear to adults and thus the themes presented are more mature in tone.  It was excellent through and through and I hope the remaining books of this series are done in the audio format.  Simply loved it.  Bravo!  Highly recommended.	2004-05-13
US	42856203	R16S7BRHP7THSU	0739303775	673212239	Eyes of a Child	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Suspenseful but one dimensional	this was my first North Paterson audio book and while I was pulled into the story I felt after it was over that it left a bad taste in my mouth.  As another reviewer stated here Chris Paget and his lover/associate Terri are just too smug for my liking.  The no can do any wrong couple that supposedly sacrifices much to put things right.  I do confess that Terri's ex husband Richie was one of the worst scum to ever grace the pages of fiction literature his opposites however were too self righteous for my taste.  In fact the only character which was three dimensional was Elena the little girl and perhaps even Rosa Terri's mother.  The story does grip you and you want to finish the book if only to find out what happens at the end but in the end you will not admire the main characters much when you have finished.  The sex abuse angle was interesting though I could not believe Terri was so stupid not to notice it from the start.  Chris's son Carlos was annoying to no end and the political side plot was a complete yawn.  I have one more North Patterson book that I purchased, \\"No safe Place,\\" I hope that one will be suspenseful without presenting such black and white characters as there were in this one.  This book contains three CDs and is narrated by Ken Howard.  He does a good job but his female voices could be improved upon.	2004-01-27
US	42856203	R1KV3DA5WP8HQ1	159086834X	310658587	Punish the Sinners	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Chilling and Surprising	This book grips you from the very start and never lets go.  While its a fast pace horror novel regarding suicide, and religious fervor it also tackles other topics such as abuse of power, sexual hypocrisy and the church overall.  I got a bit upset when the sexual element was introduced; thinking Saul was making a judgement call but as the story progressed it redeemed it self.  It also has one of the best and realistic endings I ever seen in a novel of this type.  I am glad Saul had the good sense to end it in the way he did.  A great audio book from the first CD to the last.  The reader did a good job though his female voices needed some fine tuning at times.  Still a great listening experience.  I'm off to buy another!  This book contains 5 CDs and is read by a single reader.	2003-08-11
US	42856203	R1JR5B81PWOPU9	0553713663	622334677	Force Heretic III: Reunion (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 17)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Starts out with a bang; ends up with a fizzle	I hate to say it but I'm glad this long storyline is coming to an end.  Unless something earthshattering and shocking happens in the last two books I wont be sorry to see this series finish.  I use to think the opposite especially after reading books 1,2,3,5,9,10,11,12, 13,14, and 16 but this latest entry has really soured my enthusiasm.  It started out great the storyline really pulling me in but as it progressed it bogged down into more Jedi sudo-philosophy and other such tiresome nonsense.  i thought book 6 and 13 had dealt with all that but as soon as the heroes landed on Sekot all action died down.  Yes there was action later on with the battle at the communications outpost but I wasn't holding my breath for any surprises to happen; turned out I was right.  I mean, how predictable.  Then we got this talking planet of all things.  Biotechnology is one thing, a living breathing entire planet is another.  This is not Lord of the Rings or some fantasy series.  Of course a devoted fan like myself can see how the series will eventually end though like I said before that I hope at the very least there will be a great battle with losses on both sides.  Another problem is Jason Solo.  I thought he had resolved his personal dilemmas in books 6, 13, and 14.  Apparently now he's back to being a pathetic pacifist.  By the way, what gives some teen age yahoo Jedi the right to make such momentous decisions?  Sorry, its too unbelievable and I hope to the dark side he is snuffed out in the last two books.  He is a character i can't stand.  Then there is Tahiri; it took 10 books for her little plot to finally come to and end.  I mean after all, she got shaped by the Vong in book 7; Give me a break!  Is it because she is a female Jedi that we can't kill her off?  I would have rather seen her betray the Galactic Alliance then the Vong.  Speaking of which the last two books could kill of over half the new characters introduced in this series and I am sure the fans wouldn't mind.  In addition this book was just too one sided.  The folks who created this excellent series I guess decided to start dumbing the enemy to death so he can easily be killed off by book 19.  An overused and well worn out device in the SW books.  It would have been best to seriously study the X-Wing series to see how one can cleverly defeat an enemy without dumbing him or her to death.  Thus there would not be the need to rely on talking planets and other such malarkey.  Finally, what's up with this need to pair off everybody?  Must SW books constantly portray that there is only one proper lifestyle to lead?  Can't we have a few single Jedi; or even a gay one?  People who read these books come from a variety of backgrounds and family situations; lets give other folk some time as well.  Maybe that's a bit too radical but I can't help but see a trend in these books.  So certainly not one of the best entries but exciting overall.  Its SW after all.  As a quick revision I rated this trilogy thus,<BR>Book 1, 4 stars, book 2 5 stars and book 3  3 stars.  Lets see if my enthusiasm will be restored with book 18, The Final Prophecy. the title sounds good at any rate.	2003-07-19
US	42856203	R1Y3PDSKEUIPWM	080721034X	292735949	Justice League #1: Secret Origins	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great audio treat	I didn't know what to expect when buying this audiobook.  However, upon discovering it had to do with Batman and other super heroes I decided to give it a chance.  Being an audiobook junkie I always longed for a book with a super hero such as the ones I grew up with watching on Saturday morning television.  Well, this book delivers with a bang!  Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and a bunch of other lesser known heroes are here fighting for peace and justice.  In this first installment, an Alien race has landed on Earth and its up to the super heroes to save the day.  A great audio production.  Its produced by the same folks who are making the Jedi Quest books into audio as well so there are plenty of sound effects and sound enhancements to really add to the story.  Its action and more action all the way and although its primarily for young teen agers as a 35 year old man I found myself glued to my stereo eagerly listening to see what happens next.  All the super heroes working together to fight a common enemy makes for one exciting story.  I am so glad there are six books in the series I  will soon order book 2.  Hopefully there will be more in the future.  Highly recommended for comic book fans or fans of super heroes.  This book contains two CDs and includes sound effects and incidental music along with the narration.	2003-07-17
US	42856203	R38CRRQBZAZZRF	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	1	13	61	N	N	Guilt is not the way	reviews<BR>Now I've seen everything, a book that makes males feel ashamed every time they get an erection.  I skimmed through it and could not help but shake my head at the nonsense printed in this rag.  God gave us eyes to see, to marvel and to admire.  he gave us a penis to enjoy, to find gratification and to be more in touch with our inner selves.  I don't need some self appointed shrink telling me that looking at adult material or fantasizing or masturbating is wrong.  This book will do more harm then good in the long run.  Don't waist your time or money; instead buy a book which affirms your God given sexuality and enjoy.	2003-07-07
US	42856203	RBAQ4QFFXSJLE	1579546463	191099180	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET The Delicious, Doctor-Designed, Foolproof Plan for Fast and Healthy Weight Loss	Books	1	7	37	N	N	Another diet book	Here we go again, another doc telling us what to eat and not to eat.  The recipes looked good and I might even give some a try.  However, I will never give up my carbohydrates!  They get me moving, I feel happy and although too much is bad I manage to balance it all out with a little exercise.  thanks, but no thanks, in the bin with Atkins it goes.	2003-07-02
US	42856203	RDVEI7L59X04O	0553713671	448911863	Star Wars: Shatterpoint - A Clone Wars Novel	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Finally, one for the adults	Apart from the excellent the New Jedi order series a lot of the SW books which have been written were mor or less kids books with a dash of adult themes thrown in here and there to make it appealing to all ages.  With Shatter point this is not the case.  This is what war is all about, death, despair and combat.  There is plenty of action in this book and it is presented in a way that is realistic and without the sugar coating.  Mace Windu returns to his home planet in search of the padawan which he had sent there months earlier to aid in the struggle against the separatists.  When he arrives though all kinds of horrors awaits him.  He lands in the middle of a bloody civil war and its a take no prisoners kind of battle.  Throughout the many challenges he faces he must also reevaluate his own beliefs and ideals of what it means to be a jedi.  It was a book full of the kind of plot lines and philosophy that befits a Star Wars novel.  It also shows the beginnings of how and why the republic will eventually fall.  A great addition to the Star Wars saga and a great new spin off sereies in regards to the clone wars.  Can hardly wait for book II to come out.  I hope in subsequent books Palpatine and Count Dooku play increasing bigger parts.  this book contains 5 CDs and is read by Jonathan Davis who has become the new voice for the Star Wars audiobooks.	2003-06-19
US	42856203	R3P7K1W2KD2T5M	0553713655	864417296	Force Heretic II: Refugee (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 16)	Books	5	2	6	N	N	The end is near	While the first in the trilogy was good enough this one really pulled me in.  This is what a Star Wars book should be.  It had political intrigue, back room dealings, betrayal and action; in my opinion all the elements that make this fantastic series such a success.  Mr. Williams and Mr. Dix have done an excellent job in book 2 of their trilogy and I am eagerly waiting for book 3 to be released.  The plot line concerning Bakura the Ssi'Ruuk and the p'W'eck was rather suspenseful and thrilling. It kind of reminded me of the X-wing series.  In addition a character from the past is re-introduced.  \\"think the Corellian Trilogy.\\"  There are a few twists and turns as Jaina, Han, and Leia try to uncover what is truly taking place on Bakura and why there is a communications breakdown.  The biggest surprise for me was at the end with Bakura's Prime Minister; never saw that one coming.  As well, the subplot with Tahiri was interesting even though she really isn't a favorite character of mine. One minor flaw that this book might have might be that it really doesn't advance the overall storyline as far as the war is concerned but I didn't really care. I simply read it, or rather listened to it as a stand alone story and I was entertained to the very last CD.  This book contains 3 CDs in addition to the great narration by Jonathan Davis there is music and sound effects.  Enjoy.	2003-05-19
US	42856203	RS6HRM9VEJXN3	0553456539	763758332	The Lord of the Rings (BBC Dramatization)	Books	2	0	22	N	N	Excellent production boring story	I guess I'm one of the few people in the world who is not a Lord of the Rings fan.  I may have approached this book wrongly but BBC is well known for their outstandning theatre of the mind presentations.  I did find the production to be top notch but the story was just so weird and at times so stagnant that I gave up on the whole thing by the seventh CD.  In my opinion there were far too many places and characters with weird names.  The action was slow paced and it took forever for something exciting to occur.  I found myself saying &quot;just get on with it!&quot;   I don't even feel the need to finish listening to the story though I might go back one day and give it another try.  If this is suppose to be the granddaddy of fantasy stories it sure did not live up to the hipe.  Give me Star Wars any day then this dribble; at least there is action and the story is full of characters one can relate to.  Hobits, Elves and alike are not for me.  Bottom line, get a paper back version from the library and check the story out before forking out the cash for this box set.  Its a great set and the actors do a fine job but the story is a snooze fest at best.	2003-05-15
US	42856203	R14A1FYL2UT93T	055371368X	996145031	Star Wars: Tatooine Ghost	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lust in the Dust	Once I had finished listening to this latest Star Wars book I couldn't help but think how this story reminded me of the Divine film \\"Lust in the dust.\\"   Okay there is no 300 pound+  drag queen running around but taking into account the desert of tatooine and the romantic element not to mention the big chase going on for some art work and the similarities are there.  I would classify this book as the first ever romance novel for the Star Wars universe.  Danielle Steel could have written this though the writing might not had been as good.  Our heroes Han and Leia are on the hunt for an Alderonian painting which also holds a secret.  Along the way Leia manages to come across a diary recorded by her grandmother and she learns of her father's AKA Darth Vader past or rather his childhood on Tatooine and how the events of Episode 1 changed him.  This is the book's strongest feature how the past and present come together.  Its worth reading for that point alone yet the other aspects of the book are not bad as well.  Still I would not count this installment as one of my favorites.  Too much romance for my taste and not enough action.  The race for the painting at times seems dull and there is just too much predictability.  The reappearance of Chewbacca just made me realize that I don't regret in the least seeing him die off in the excellent \\"Vector Prime.\\"  The squibs were more then annoying at times and although Grand Admiral Thrawn makes a cameo there is no strong villain to be had anywhere.  Still it's a fun read and it is Star Wars but give me the New Jedi order series any day than this.  This audiobook contains five CDs.  Sound effects and music accompany the reading which is done rather excellently by the way.	2003-03-28
US	42856203	R2MJ2XBNSEK57O	962634265X	944746316	Hedda Gabler (Classic Drama)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bravo! Bravo!	A great audio play which pulls the listener in and never lets go.  As the story progresses the tension mounts and mounts until you can't take the suspense no longer.  Juliet Stevenson does a superb job in portraying the manipulative but reckless Hedda and the rest of the cast are top notch.  This is a brilliant presentation of ibsen's play showing the foibles of life and the dangers of desire.  A wonderful audio experience to be listened to over and over again. Highly recommended.  This audio book contains two CDs and is a full cast presentation of Ibsen's play Hedda Gabler.	2003-03-28
US	42856203	RBFTIVFS9Z1O	1891007017	684776055	1: Little Evil Things, Volume I: Audio Horror Stories with Music Accompaniment (Little Evil Things)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bite size little horrors of scary fun	This little horror fest of scary short stories will entertain you without fail.  I bought volume 1 on a whim and I am glad I did.  While the stories themselves at times are a little too amateurish they will nevertheless make you check your back to see if there is any creepy crawly coming at you or a ghost has suddenly appeared.  The CD is best listened to in the dark and with earphones on.  There are five stories in all covering everything from curses to werewolves to creatures in the night.  I really enjoyed listening to the CD and can't wait to listen to volume 2.  This audiobook contains one CD and the text is read by a variety of readers; great incidental music and sound design accompany the narrations.  Highly recommended.	2003-03-23
US	42856203	R2A0REN38XV8RQ	1567404758	711918396	A Density of Souls	Books	4	1	2	N	N	quite the page turner	This was quite the story; full of passion, mystery and suspense.  I truly could get into the characters and understand each point of view from where he or she was coming from.  It is a great expose' on sexuality and the anxiety and frustrations it brings.  The line between gay and straight is a fine one indeed and is the main cause of the homophobia in the book.  The author truly captured this aspect rather well.  It was interesting to see while Greg and Brandon had to constantly prove their manhood, Stephen just went on with living his life; though at times for him it was pure hell.  Could this be why some straight males have a problem with their gay counter parts?  I truly felt for Meredith; she was sort of the reluctant hero in the whole story.  The secondary characters were well developed as well especially Monica and Greg's mother.  The story itself was riveting and it was refreshing for a change to see a gay character take front and center rather then fall back on cardboard heroes.  Okay I may be a bit bias being gay myself but hey what can I say?  I did like the suspense in this and the ending was truly a shocker even though it bordered on soap opera; though only a bit.  There are however flaws with this grand effort mainly with the character Jordan.  Men don't turn gay overnight and though I loved the idea of the home town hero rescuing his newly found male lover it truly was a bit unbelievable. I would not have thought so if the author had shown Jordan to be bi throughout his life but that was not the case.  At first we see Jordan as this hot college stud who is kept by women and never while attending college seeks any men but in a matter of a short period falls in love with another man and does it without any qualms or inner struggles or whatsoever.  Like I said I liked it on the  whole but even taking into account I was reading fiction I found it to be a tad too unbelievable.  In the end though it all came nicely together and I found myself glued to my stereo listening intently.  The reader James Daniels did an excellent job in bringing the story to life.  Christopher Rice's writing style is nothing like his mother's and I'm glad.  I will read his other novel the Snow garden for sure or rather listen to it.  This audiobook contains six cassettes and is read by a single reader.	2003-03-14
US	42856203	R1LMI6CLKR9P6S	0553713647	141218621	Force Heretic I: Remnant (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 15)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It shows some promise but...	I hate to say it but after finishing this latest installment of the New Jedi Order I kind of felt a bad taste in my mouth.  Borrowing that famous line from the Star Wars films, \\"I have a bad feeling on how this series is going to end.\\"  In this installment The Vong have attacked the imperial remnant thus forcing what is left of the Empire to forge a union with the Galactic Alliance AKA the New Republic though it has now been destroyed by the Vong.  The storyline was good overall with high risk missions taking place in order to force the Vong back and retreat.  There were a few elements however which I didn't' like in this book.  One being what I call the kiddy factor.  As I have stated in other reviews concerning past SW novels at times writers are reluctant to give an adult oriented account of what is going on and thus over does with sugar coating in order to make it more palpable to young readers.  Most of the time however SW writers work in the kiddy factor well without making it too apparent but in this case it was front and center.  I mean come on, couldn't we have a few deaths when undertaking those high risk missions?  I know there has been two major deaths since this series started and some fans went overboard with their condemnations but hey people that's life; eventually Characters do die off.  In Remnant I would have liked to see Saba get snuffed out or even Danny but no chance.  Even Pellieion survives though he is in a baccta tank for most of the novel.  Sure there were deaths during the attack of Bastion, but again it was too sugar coated unlike the earlier novels in the series where you truly felt for the victims.  Second is the dumbbing of the enemy.  You would think a war culture like the Vong would have tuned into the fact that their foe is using some type of gizmo to confuse the war coordinators.  The G.A.M was first used in book 11 and now has been used again.  You would think the Vong would suspect that something is a miss.  I did however in theend give it four stars for I did like the ending especially the drama where Pellieon addresses the moffs.  I did feel though that the good guys this time round were a bit too smug and one dimensional.  As well the reintroduction of the living planet Zonoma Sekut leads me to believe that the ending of the series will be stupid though I pray I am wrong.  Zonoma Sekut was a boring plot line in \\"Rogue Planet\\" and I can't see for the life of me why this series would travel down that path.  I hope at least there will be a huge bloody battle in the end.  There are now just four books left in the NJO series concerning the Vong; its exciting to see what happens but I hope it will be a realistic ending and not disintegrate into tripe.  This book contains 3 CDs and along with the reading are sound effects and music from all five SW films.  Next in line is \\"Tatooine Ghost\\"  Have fun fans.	2003-02-28
US	42856203	RIIKRQLZLQMIF	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	1	9	45	N	N	Sorry, not for me	Okay I have finally read this book which has been on best seller list for the past three years now.  First off, the doc has something to say.  He does make sense when he discusses the dangerous of refined sugar and processed foods.  Up to now fine but when I first glanced at the induction phase read it through then saw I had to take vitamins as well.  I simply closed the book and returned it to my library.  I could never eat like that, not for a short time and certainly not for the rest of my life.  Give me a break!  I find it a bit ironic that the doc lambastes refined products and such but has no qualms about pushing pills.  Sure take another pill folks!  Before long you'll be taking more pills then you can count.  I have never been a proponent of pills, or vitamins or anything that comes in a tablet.  I choose to get my nutrients from natural resources.  Still I believe this diet does work for some not for others and a lot of folks fall in between.  Having said that; I still would never try such a regiment.	2003-01-28
US	42856203	R25BGJVPTFQGK4	0743509676	268598033	Self Matters: Creating Your Life from the Inside Out	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Banal psychology	While this book had something to say it truly doesn't divulge anything earth shattering or original.  I knew where the doc was going by the end of the second CD.  All this book did for me was to reaffirm what I already know about myself.  I guess it can be helpful to those who feel lost or find themselves trapped in relationships or situations they really don't want but it did very little for me.  As well the doc's preachy voice got to be annoying after a while and his good old boy attitude just turned me right off.  Like most self help books out there the people who right them assume everybody is the same, they come from the same background, socioeconomic status, race, sexual orientation and so on.  In short, if you are more or less close to the lifestyle the doc lives  this book might be helpful.  I borrowed this one from my library and I'm glad I did.  My recommendation, do the same.  Its nothing exemplary.	2003-01-14
US	42856203	R2Y3GIV3UKZGG	0679751645	179279445	Same-Sex Unions in Premodern Europe	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Great thesis wrong approach	This book had some interesting things to say but it went about it in the wrong way.  First of all, I think this book demonstrates that marriage is more then superficial ceremonies and the exchanging of rings.  I found it a great expose' on how same sex unions can be just as affective as heterosexual ones.  ... The problem with this book is that its just so dry.  The ton of footnotes make it a chore to read and a couple of chapters could be left out altogether.  I would love to listen to an abridged version of this book on CD.  It would be more interesting and probably would get Boswell's argument across to the lay reader more efficiently.  I manage to get through most of it but I got tired in the end.  It was like he kept repeating the same points over and over again.  A more simplified version would be welcomed with all the footnotes in the back well away from the main text.  Conclusion, an interesting thesis but not a read for everyone.	2002-12-13
US	42856203	R10G6QCPVJOO4N	1570193800	419595190	A Christmas Carol	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An entertainning adaptation of a classic	This version of A Christmas Caril is done by the Cambel playhouse and stars orson Welles as Scrooge.  Being an hour long its abridged but one hardly notices what was left out from the story.  There was one glaring omission however which is quite poignant and which helps to underline the message Dickens was trying to convey when he wrote this classic.  The part I'm speaking of is the appearance of the two deformed children which peer out of the robes of the ghost of Christmas present and are labeled Ignorance and Want.  They should have included that scene in.  Apart from that I enjoyed listening to this broadcast from the golden age of radio.  Welles is a great actor but at times he comes across like a self righteous prig.  Nevertheless he was quite good as Scrooge.  i recommend this recording for those who love radio shows and audio dramas.  At the very least its another wonderful way to enjoy this well loved story.  This audiobook contains 1 CD and is a full cast presentation.	2002-12-09
US	42856203	R112UQ6KYD7YSK	9626341491	471839563	Christmas Collection (Poetry)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Like a Christmas stocking full of goodies	What Naxos has done here is put together an anthology of Christmas poetry, musings and other Christmas fair to serve up a delightful listen.  Starting with an ancient Christmas carol and even a recipe circa 1300 the listener is treated to poetry, thoughts and reflections from various authors on what Christmas is, and is not about.  I have to admit it took me a while to get into this recording but once I did I found myself touched by the Christmas spirit.  Indeed I actually bought this last year and saved it for this year's holiday season to listen to.  Among the poetry and observations, there are also a few short stories, and evena play.  As well interspersed throughout the readings are Christmas carols and classical Christmas music.  Its a fine collection although its mostly for adults.    In adition one truly must be a lover of English literature to fully appreciate this anthology; the overall theme of this after all has to do with Christmas time in the 19th and early 20th centuries.  I would highly recommended if one enjoys works and authors from these time periods.  Its great to listen to with a cup of cocoa, or exotic coffee.  This book contains 2 CDs and is read by a variety of readers.  merry Christmas.	2002-12-08
US	42856203	R1VINGRK7GDDNX	0061012351	240835376	Vendetta: Luckys Revenge	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Welcome to sleeze ville	A Jackie Collins novel like this one is like a box of rich chocolate cookies; you know you should not indulge yourself but you do.  this book was a fast easy read full of steamy sex scenes backstabbing amoral witches and psychopaths.  There is a dash here and there of romance but believe me its no Jane Eyre.  I read it mainly to see what happend next.  I felt no connection with any of the characters, who truly would?  Basically everybody is out for themselves no matter who they are.  A book to pass a rainy day with or to read on a beach.	2002-11-23
US	42856203	R1YPZFL207T3BL	0553713450	541544893	Midnight Voices	Books	3	4	5	N	N	midnight nonsense	While this book does have its creepy moments it does stretch the boundaries of belief a little too far.  The story starts out nicely; a murder, a mysterious building and odd occupants but there are just too many questions left unanswered.  Who was the actual killer?  Why did everyone just disappear in the end?  Was it all an illusion?  The ending sure didn't shed much light though it did leave room for a sequel.  When I was finished I thought it was pretty good and to an extent I still do; but are you really asking me to believe that a woman has just married a living corpse?  Worse then that, that she made love with it and didn't realize that something was a miss?  A little too much to swallow for my taste.  I did enjoy the suspense though and the build up but I wish the ending would have provided more answers.  I hope there is a sequel.  ... This version contains three audio cassettes and is red by a single reader.	2002-11-06
US	42856203	R54NGN05FTAZ0	9626340886	702279087	Within a Budding Grove (Remembrance of Things Past, 3) (Pt. 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	exquisite	Volume 3 of 12 of proust's Remembrance of things past is another great example of beautiful literature.  In this volume Proust's leaves the innocence of boyhood and ventures forth towards young adulthood.  His relationship with young Gilberte grows and eventually he falls in love with the pretty thing.  Alas however there are problems and the narrator must face the fact that Gilberte will never be the one for him.  All the while Proust's writes of Madame Swann the much talked about woman with a shady past.  Though the mother of Gilberte the narrator paints her as a vision of beauty and grace.  He is captivated by her as well and in one charming passage describes in great detail a spring coat she is wearing on one of her walks where in it he finds treasures and scents like no other.  the reader can feel the coat as it is being described such a writer is Proust.  this volume ends with Proust arriving at Balbec with his grandmother and observing the Hypocrisy around him.  It is quite comical for no one is spared and each class at that time viewed the other with suspicion and disdain.  I was quite disappointed when the last CD was through but I have already ordered volume 4.  Naxos has done an excellent job in bringing to life Proust's masterpiece and I can't wait to listen to all 12 volumes.  I will savor them however ordering one every so often just to excite my anticipation a bit more.  this book contains 3 CDs and includes musical breaks between the reading.	2002-11-06
US	42856203	R255Y4T2VUES3A	0060012560	287843708	Two Plays for Voices	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great audio plays	These two audio plays by Neil Gaiman were quite entertainning and full of intrigue.  I did not know exactly what to expect when I purchased this set but I am glad I did.  Both plays had excellent acting and sound design.  Both stories caught my attention and i spent the better part of the evening glued to my headphones.  I hope there will be future productions such as this.  This book contains 2 CDs.  Each story features a full cast dramatization.  \\"Snow White Apples\\" leans to the horror/ dark fantasy genre; while \\"Murder Mysteries\\" is a supernaturel who done it of sorts.  There is however a clever twist ending in the second play sort of a mystery within a mystery. I really enjoyed them both.	2002-10-18
US	42856203	R2WOI83VJ2NTJE	0553713787	87344379	Destiny's Way (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 14)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Exciting!	Here we go fans the Vong are about to get their due.  Destiny's Way marks the beginning though I do hope the upcoming battles are grand and bloody.  Plenty is a foot in this installment but I wont give any spoilers away.  We do get to see however the Vong's supreme overloard take a more active role in the war and what a character he is.  In short there is no true republic to speak of.  The capital world is now the home world of the Vong and all the forces of the republic are scattered throughout the galaxy.  However all is not loss.  New elections are on the way to select a new cheif of state and luke Skywalker is hard at work to re-establish the jedi council.  on the water world of Mon Kalamari where all this is taking place Admiral Akbar who is more or less dying hatches out a plan to ensnare the Vong.  However the republic has been working on a secret weapon called Alfa Red which could eradicate the Vong but it would be an inhuman way to do so.  Verger also plays a crucial role in this installment as well and Jason's return from the dead is a nice subplot.  This book was highly entertainning.  I was glued to my headphones for hours.  I think its the right time to start dealing defeats to the Vong though I would not mind if the story arc were to have another 20 volumes.  Still, there are four more volumes to go and despite the losses the Vong have here anything could happen.  The audio prduction as always was top notch.  The reader did a fine job especially with the Vong overlord.  Sound effects and incidental music were used quite cleverly to add to the excitement of the story.  Can't hardly wait till the next Volume but alas it will not come out till after the holidays.  Waht to do?  I think I'll listen to the first Volume Vecter Prime once more.  This book contains 5 CDs and includes sound effects and music from all five star wars films.	2002-10-17
US	42856203	R1Q7PZ8X1FDU6D	1931953198	771464862	Friends, Enemies and Allies (Deathstalker, Episode 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The plot thickens	Episode 2 of the Deathstalker series really pulled me in.  While episode 1 got things rolling with introductions episode 2 moves the story along at a nice pace.  Owen and Hazel land on Mist World a last refuge for people wanted by the empire.  As the title indocates they meet up with all kinds of friends, enemies and allies.  A batch of new and interesting characters are introduced and join Owen Deathstalker and Hazel on their quest to bring down the evil empire.  \\"Sounds familiar?\\"   As i mentioned in my review of episode 1 this series borrows heavily from the Star Wars universe yet it is distinctive and does offer fresh plot lines of its own.  As well there is a more adult flavouring to this series then Star Wars.  Of course these books are geared for the male reader/listener in mind but girls will have no problem in enjoying them as well.  Plenty of tough female characters abound.  My favorite character however is Valentine Wolf, an aristocrat and one of the most colorful characters in this series.  Simon Green has  him as a sexually ambivalent man who on the surface seems so delicate but in truth is quite powerful and shrewed.  His face is full of make up and the reader injects a bit of a stereo typical gay tone when narrating his part.  Still, its a welcome addition to a genre that seems to be intrinsically hetero centric.  In short, these books are full of action and I am hooked!  This book contains 2 audio cassettes and is narrated by a cast of readers.  There are sound effects and music as well to complement the narration.	2002-10-17
US	42856203	RDSNMFLI3GNY5	9626342684	944746316	Pygmalion (Classic Drama)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	The acting was great but the story went no where	I have to confess that I found Shaw's play a bit boring.  While there are points to be had here I found the long scenes and prolonged dialogue a tad combersome.  Of course Shaw's main point is to show that one can rise above one's social status in life and better himself if given the chance. All fine and good but the plot to this play drags for far too long.  Higgins comes across a as an asexual wooden being which totally brings the story down.  Eliza is too prudish for my taste and the rest of the characters are just bland.  In most scenes people seem to be screaming at each other rather then trying to move the sstory along.  It truly was a chore to get through this one.  As for the acting, it was fine but working with such a lame script the actors didnt' much engage my Attention.  No, I would have to say this is a miss from Naxos which otherwise produces excellent audio books.  I haven't tried Naxos's other full cast productions but I will see.  This book contains three CDs it is a full cast version with sound effects and music.  The third CD contains notes regarding the play and speculations on what happened afterwards.  I found it all rather dry.	2002-10-02
US	42856203	R3RRZSE9A0DRT9	0553713175	707181604	Traitor (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 13)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It just keeps getting better and better.	The 13th book in the fantastic New Jedi Order series is not full of space battles though it does have its action but rather it finally looks at the force under a microscope of sorts.   Jason is alive and is being cleverly trainned by the mysterious Vergre.  An alien species who long ago had been captured by the Vong.  She tests Jason to no end but though at first it looks like she is merely torturing Jason in truth she is giving the young jedi crucial  knowledge regarding the Vong.  Jason survives her tests and questions and even thrives.  He manages to immerse  himself in the Vong's bio technology to the point he can communicate with it.  It is a book of great debates and philosophical view points.    I think it was very well written and brilliantlly placed in the New Jedi Order's time line.  It totally redefines Jason and we see now how this once boy jedi grows up to be a man.  Things also happen in this book to move the overall story along and yes we have more deaths from both sides.  I have to say it was gripping and a very entertainning listen.  Jonathan Davis does an excellent job in narrating these books I'm glad Random House Audio chose him.  This book contains 3 CDs along with the narration there are sound effects and music from all five star wars films.  I really love the dark monotone music in the background whenever there are scenes with the Vong.	2002-09-27
US	42856203	R2I8WP8BF8I7I2	0453007481	44675603	The Library Policeman: Three Past Midnight (Four Past Midnight)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I'm a policeman...	This audio version of Three past midnight will capture your attention especially if you listen to it in the dark.  the reader does an excellent job giving each character a distinct voice.  spooky music punctuates  the suspense of the book giving it a chilling feeling which pulls the lisener in.  Still, like most Sk books the begining was better then the ending.  I found the way the hero fought off the entity a bit over the top and really didn't make that much sensse.  Yes Sam faced his fear but King built up the evil being so much that one would think it took more then childhood fears to kill it off.  Overall though a pretty good listen.  This book contains 6 cassettes and is narrated by a single reader.	2002-09-19
US	42856203	R8G448W5ACEQO	1586212877	540414996	The Beach House	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Another Hollywood ending	Here we go again folks, a wet behind the ears, can do no wrong do gooder and his perfect in every way girlfriend set out to uncover the mystery of why the do gooder's brother drowned in the sea while working as a parking attendent for a rich family.    yes it was entertainning but I can't help the fact that the authors here are trying to send a message in regards to partying and having fun not to mention sex.   If I had the kind of money the big bad rich character did in this book I would too party down to my heart's content.  Using sex as a root to evil just does not sit well with me.  I had to try very hard to simply concentrate on the suspense and not notice the moral subtext to this forgettable  book.  patterson is one of my favorite authors but this one failed the mark.  The grandfather was annoying, I wish Jack would have drowned as well and can I really feel any sympathy for peter?  He played with fire far too often and of course in the end he got burnt.  Bottom line it had suspense but lets leave the judgement calls out of popular fiction.  In my opinion the good guys in this book were just as corrupt as the bad guys, even more so in some ways.  The audio prduction was excellent and the reader did a fine job but the short chapters don't really work well with this format.  The  constant stopping to announce the next chapter kills the flow of the book in a way.  This book contains nine CDs and is narrated by a single reader.  The story is written in the first person.	2002-09-18
US	42856203	R1T7HXOKJP7CFQ	193195318X	586579422	The Man Who Had Everything (Deathstalker, Episode 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good beginning	This is volume 1 of a series of books by Simon r. Green concerning Owen Deathstalker.  DeathStalker is a Lord in her majesty's empire but now has been outlawed by her and is marked for death.  As he makes his escape from his home world where long time friends and employees have turned on him, he meets up with Hazel Dark a clone smuggler who also is outlawd by the empire.  the story is full of action and the audio production drew me in.  Being a huge Star Wars fan I kept looking around for another sci-fi series to listen to between Star Wars books.  I have found such a series with Deathstalker.  Although it borrows heavily from the Star Wars universe it nevertheless has its own distinct plot line and characterization.  I also might add unlike the Star Wars books these are written with a more adult flavor when it comes to four letter words and sexual encounters.    Yet such things are used sparingly throughout the book.  I really did like the villain in this one that being Empress Lionstone though Owen Deathstalker is pretty likable as a hero.    The book is also filled with colorful characters and non-stop action.  It was an exciting book to listen to and I will buy Episode 2 which is coming out soon.  Deathstalker is no Star Wars of course but it is a suspense filled space opera all the same.  This audiobook contains 2 cassettes it is narrated by a variety of readers and has a few sound effects as well but nothing like a Star Wars audiobook.  It is also nicely priced.	2002-08-03
US	42856203	R2AQN91H8Z7IS0	0553713027	499156103	Rebel Stand (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order- Enemy Lines, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great entry	Rebel Stand was a great entry in the on going Star Wars saga.  Its exciting to finally see the Vong getting some severe blows hopefully however there are many more blooddy battles to come.  poor Vickey.  Well she had it coming but I really liked the way she was dealt with.  Of course the biggest surprise in this book is finding out what became of Irick Ismeran and his mother, what a great sub plot.  A lot of action just the way a Star Wars novel should be. I also love the fact that Random House audio is now producing Star Wars audiobooks exclusively on CD.  it makes for a much better listneing experience.  I also love the added touch of the haunting backround music when there is a scene concerning the Vong.  Can't wait till Traitor but since its all ready out there is no need to.  I am simply addicted to these audiobooks!  A must read or listen if there ever was one.  This audiobook contains 3 CDs and is narrated by Jonathan Davis who does a pretty good job.  Its also filled with sound effects and music from the first four films.  A great production.	2002-07-31
US	42856203	R2N8AWGAVFQZTX	0671621386	945966887	The Mist : In 3-D Sound	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Formulaic and lame	As a person who purchases over $800 worth of audio products each year I can say I have some experience in regards to audiobooks.  As far as production goes this book is pretty good.  The sound effects are nicely done and some of the actors play their roll well.  Waht fails for me is the story.  I mean folks its been done before over and over and over and over again.  Of course there is the added annoyance of the kid's voice and that one cheap sexual encounter.  Add the abrupt ending and what do you have left?  An audiobook full of great sound and sound effects and nothing much else.  If you want something a bit more better, try the audio play version of Pet sematary  done by the BBC; that one is much better and a whole lot more scarier then this mess.  My copy ended up in the garbage after all.	2002-07-31
US	42856203	R1DG55PS69OLSD	0553756052	616758950	The Homing	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Freaky!	While a bit far fetched I enjoyed listening to this tale from John Saul.  The story drew me in from the very beginning and I was anxious to see what happens twoards the end.  I have to confess I did like the ending.  Some parts of this book were really creepy and this kept me glued to my stereo.  It was a tad disturbing to see that the majority of victims were teen agers but it gave the book that extyra thrill and horrific jolt.  All the characters were engaging and played their parts nicely.  I also liked all the underlining sexual themes in the book; anybody else catch those?  The reader did a good job, though at times her mid western accents got a bit too much.  She did portray the drama of the book well occasionally going over the top in some of the more vilent scenes.  This version contains two audio cassettes and is narrated by a single reader.	2002-07-22
US	42856203	R3UBBUOSMXKY10	9626342218	268229192	The History of English Literature (Naxos AudioBooks Histories series)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Fascinating	The History of English Literature is an audio documentary presenting the finest authors England has to offer.  From Chaucer to the present the narrator guides the listener on an audio journey telling him all about the different authors and styles of writing.  In addition historical foot notes are given as well to give the listener an idea of what influnced a particular author during the time he or she was writing.  In brief politics, the church and royalty not to mention social change all played major parts throughout the centuries to give each period a unique prospective.  Dozens of authors and poets are covered here although in breif.  Eliot, Austen, Dickens, Wolf, Wells, Blake, Woodsworth and so on.  The list is quite extensive and it will give the casual listner a great overview of the written word.  As stated each author or poet is presented briefly some merely only getting a mention while others are talked about more thoroughly and even have excerpts from their works read out.  It is a great listening experience for one who wants to approach the topic casualy and learn as much about it in the least amount of time.  I managed to get through the whole book in a matter of three days but I simply loved how it all was executed.  So if you found your high school or college lit courses tiresome but still are interested to see how the novel of today was formulated or what the poets of years past had to say and how they shaped the literary landscape I highly recommend this audio book by Naxos.  It is something you will want to refer to time and time again.  A great audio documentary to add to your library.  This audiobook contains four CD's.  It is read by a single narrator but the excerpts are read by various other readers.  It also has musical breaks between each section of the text.	2002-07-11
US	42856203	R2NGPZM06N73BU	0807208299	322710826	Star Wars: Jedi Quest #1: The Way of the Apprentice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Series Begins	Jedi Quest is yet another spin off series from the galaxy far far away.  I am glad to see that Ramdoom House Audio Publishing group has decided to make this new series available  in the audio format.  I generally buy all the audiobooks having to do with Star Wars.  This first installment in this series is quite good.  Four Jedi teams including Obi Won and Aniken are sent to a planet which is being decimated  by a toxic outbreak and its their job to  bring calm and help with the evacuation.  Aniken is tested here for he has to put is brash tactics aside and work together with the other jedi students.  Of course there are inner conflicts and we see the beginnings of Aniken's desteny.  I think Jude Watson has captured this aspect of Aniken right on.  The story itself is quite good and has plenty of action scenes  to keep the listener interested.  Jonathan Davis who did a great job in narrating the novel version of Attack of the Clones reads this one as well.  He manages quite nicely to give the slue of characters presented here a distinct voice.  He is a nice addition to my audio library.  The only minor complaint I have with this book is that there were no space battles; but the ground battles made up for it.  I am looking forward to listening to Jedi Quest 2 now.  In case anyone is interested there are now over 75 audio books in the Star Wars saga which encompass three different time lines.  1, the prequel years, 2, post Return of the Jedi, 3, The New Jedi Order; I have found all the books to be top notch in value and listen to them over and over again.  I never rgret bying a Star Wars audio book.  Its great that Amazon carries the entire line.  This book contains two audio cassettes.  Along with the narration,  this audio book also has music and sound effects which bring the story  to life.	2002-07-05
US	42856203	R16I4DU2XR36OB	067188655X	146685771	The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Unique Audio book	For some weird reason the audio book industry has thumbed their noses at erotica and thus very little of the genre is ever turned out in the audio format.  Thanks the sex Gods then for the Beauty trilogy.  This first book was quite the listening experience; full of erotic passeges not to mention S and M scenes it held my interest quite well.  It was a blast to have stuff like this being read out loud it really brought the images to life.  I would have preferred a male reader but that's just personal taste.  The reader used was quite good in her own right though her range of character voices is rather limited.  The story is basically a re-telling of Sleeping Beauty though of course there is much more to it.  Anne Rice once again has created a world full of sensual pleasures and deep emotions.  Her unique stuyle of making the characters pansexual  and engrossing is what gives this story its fire.  There is of course no deep plotline here or mystry to solve but an erotic journey to undertake.  To its credit the story does end on a cliffhanger of sorts though.  Very nice now I must move on to Beauty's Punishment.  This audio book contains two audio cassettes it has a single reader.	2002-07-05
US	42856203	R1Q9QU5KU1YWXL	0399147586	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	3	3	5	N	N	I prefer Alex Cross	Chosen Prey was the first audio book I listened to by John Sandford.  While the overall story was okay, I found the writing to be lazy for lack of a better word.  it seemed rush and not well thought out.  in addition the sex scenes seemed to be forced and/or simply plopped in to give the book some excitement.  The villain in this one was a joke and hardly kept my interest. He was simply not ruthless enough or diabolical or even sexy.  James patterson always manages to fit the above elements in his villains take Michael and William for example from Viilets are Blue.  That was a shocking book in deed.  The bad guy in Chosen Prey at times didn't know if he was coming or going.  There was something missing to his development.  Lucas Davenport  is also pretty unlikable as a hero.  He comes across at times like a prig and seems at least in this book one dimensional.  Its like outside women and police work there is nothing else to the man.  Speaking of which why the need to have him bed every female character he comes in contact with?  Is it to validate his manhood or something?  This is crime fiction not erotica.  As for him settling down with Weather, big deal.  Waht a nagging witch not to mention a complete bimbo.  In fact I found all the female characters to be anoying; John Sandford takes the femenist thing a bit too far.  The reader did an okay job but his range of character voices was limited.  he made one female sound very much like an overweight alcoholic man in fact.  Not great at all.  Certainly nothing compared to the suspense filled reading of a patterson book.  maybe I just started out too late in this series but I am reluctant to buy the next one in line when there are so many other titles I want to add to my audio collection.  This version contains four audio cassettes.  Its narrated by a single reader.	2002-07-03
US	42856203	R2LMKDNP6ETROR	9626341688	694406997	Naked She Lay: An Anthology of Classic Erotic Verse	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Erotica for the senses	This treasure trove of classic erotic verse is for those who like their erotica subtle and engrossing.  you will not find crude pornoographic  passeges here, rather timeless literature which fire the imagination and make the soul desire.  The works presented here are rather daring and provocative  especially when one takes into account the time they were written.  Poetic words come together to give the listener quite the stimulating image and you soon find yourself catching your breath wondering how one got away with writing such a graphic piece.  One has to ponder if people of years past were more liberated then we give them credit for.<BR>There is a wide variety of works presented here.  Some are mere romantic notions with a touch of passion, others quite graphic and revealing.  there are passages on love, sex, infidelity same sex attraction and even on masturbation.  I would caution though that one truly has to be a lover of the English word to fully appreciate such a collection of erotic verse.  No doubt listneing to such pros and poetry is the best way to enjoy works such as these.  It was something else to listen too and very enticing.  I found myself even wondering what the readers might look like in the nude for some of them had the sexiest voice.  After listening to a few pieces you will find yourself drifting, and undressing strangers around you.  It has this effect.  it manages to withhold the mystery of sexual pleasure yet allows you to go wild with your imagination.  Once you are done listening to this audiobook you will approach a new erotic encounter with a different notion.<BR>This audiobook contains two CD's.  A variety of readers both male and female narrate the passages.  There are musical interludes throughout the readings adding that much more to the audio production.  A must for lovers of poetry, erotica and for those who enjoy audiobooks with a flair.  Naxos has done it again.	2002-06-26
US	42856203	RMVSMPM6F2WNB	962634198X	916525848	Classic American Poetry: 65 Poems by Longfellow, Poe, Emerson, Whitman, Frost, Cummings and Many More	Books	5	43	44	N	N	The best way to enjoy poetry	poetry is one of those things wich either you can't stand or simply love.  Having been exposed to very little myself I decided to give this coolection a try.  I have purchased Naxos products in the past so I considered myself to be safe.  Naxos after all is a great publisher.  Well, I popped in the first CD and boy I was drawn in.  The various readers used on this production were simply outstanding.  I have never heard such narration before.  I don't know why the reviewer below me is complaining.  I have very little knowledge about the poets included in this collection but I feel I got a crash course in some ways.  It was a pleasure to simply listen to the text being read.  It makes for a great companion when enjoying a good cup of coffee as well.  I will most definitely buy more poetry collections done by Naxos; in fact I have started listening to another set all ready.  Bravo to the readers and to a fine audiobook.  It is one of those books I will listen to over and over again for the works here are timeless indeed.<BR>This audiobook contains two CD's.  The narration is done by a variety of readers and the poems are complemented with musical interludes.	2002-06-13
US	42856203	R14URVPQYSD07F	0787100889	27125011	Passion: Men on Men	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good, but don't get too excited.	First of all, this book has very little to do with erotica.  The title of the book is Passion; Men on Men.  It is a collection of writings regarding men, their feelings, thoughts and emotions.  There are both humorous pieces as well as thought provoking ones.  Yes, there are some writings concerning gay men but straight men are not left out; longing is universal after all.  It is truly a mix bag of essays and excerpts from books. An audiobook quite unique.  It tries to cover a wide variety of men but it falls short to a point.  Nevertheless, it was enjoyable to listen to.  It is unlike any other audio product I have purchased in the past.  Buy it if you want something diferent to listen to then the current best seller or book of the month.  It will make you think about your gender in a fresh way.  This book contains 2 audio cassettes and has a variety of readers.  gay, straight and Bi males are talked about throughout the selections included here.  Hopefully there will be another collection in the near future.  In my opinion there is not enough written about males and their psyche.  this is a shame.	2002-06-09
US	42856203	R31JOA1ZKUD11A	0553380427	296185592	The New Male Sexuality, Revised Edition	Books	1	33	84	N	N	New male sexuality? I think not.	The title of this book is misleading.  to call it the new male sexuality is quite the statement and one would thinkit encompasses  all forms of male sexuality.  This is not the case.  I totally agree with writing a book concerning straight male sexuality but that should have been a subtitle to the book.  The doc chooses to simply ignore bi and gay men as if they didn't exist.  This is not the new male sexuality.  Male sexuality is much more then five to eight minutes in the missionary position.  Straight couples these days are experimenting with new ideas and techniques.  The penis is only one component to the overall male sexual make up.  there are other areas to be explored as well.  If you want the straight nuts and bolts I guess this book will do but if yu are an adventurous male, look elsewhere.	2002-05-30
US	42856203	R18C7QPVNQEB8V	1565112016	264838380	Star Wars: Dark Empire II (Star Wars (Penguin Audio))	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Dark Empire audio review	Where to begin?  Well When the first Dark Empire came out I thought it wasn't bad.  The Emperor returning and all that.  of course being a comic book for the kiddies it got pretty ridiculas towards the end.  Luke goes through the dark side like it was a strole through the park.  Then Dark Empire came out and wow, I thought, what cheese!  It was basically Dark Empire I all over again with a few minor new plot elements thrown in.  being a Star Wars fan I tried to like it but in my personal opinion I consider it an abomination  to the Star Wars legacy.  The Emperor and Luke are reduced to the equivalent  of squabbling five year olds who can't get their own way.  Han and Leia go off to rescue some old woman who is nothing but annoying and along the way meet up with a half man half droid moron.  No thanks.  They should not have continued after Dark Empire.  In additionif one buys the audio tape of Dark Empire 2 they will be left hanging for the story does not end with this installment.  Empire's end which is no longer available on audio is the last installment and thank the force for that of this cheese wiz version of a star wars story.  Empire's end on audio can only be found on a five CD box set containing Dark Empire, Dark Empire 2 and Empire's end.  The CD's are quite colorful and the packaging is attractive but it fails to redeam this stinker of a story.  The only one shining moment to all this is that this trilogy introduces the birth of the third Solo child Aniken.  If you must have everything to do with Star wars then buy it but you have been warned.  I have the box set so I have the complete story but it will be a very long long time before I give it another listen.  This version of Dark Empire 2 contains 2 audio cassettes.  The actors used do a good job of portraying the classic characters of the original trilogy.  There are good sound effects and so forth and i dare say the ten and under crowd will find it quite entertaining.  For us older kids  the 21 and over I mean the new jedi order does quite well as well as the new books concerning the prequel years.  However I am a Star Wars fan thus I do like to own all audio regarding this amazing series.  If you are looking for great Star Wars audio, I strongly recommend the NPR radio dramas of the classic trilogy.  That truly is a treasure to listen to.  Let this one go it will diminish  your love for the series.	2002-05-28
US	42856203	R3TH5UE1SNQIVL	9626341041	503057596	Pride & Prejudice (Young Adult Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another Austen success	With pride and Prejudice Austen has at last created a heroine that does not go to pieces at the first sight of an eligible  young man.  elizabeth Bennett's mind rules her heart not the other way around.  thus Mr. Darcy who is attracted to her must first prove his love and loyalty before Elizabeth will consider him.  this novel is one of austne's finest and I found myself captured by the story.  In those days marriage was essential to a woman's happiness and thus she strove to do all in her power to find a suitable match.  it is a task that frankly has not totally died even today despite all the social change that has taken place since this book was written.  One has to wonder what Austen would think if she was alive today.  the main message of this novel is not to rush to judgement in regards to others.  A notion wich still holds great importance.  Though at times a little too lighthearted this book nevertheless is an enjoyable read or in my case a listen.  Naxos  did a great job in making Austen's novel come alive.  the narrator read the text with the right amount of tone and intonation and the classical music breaks between scenes was a nice touch.  When it comes to audio classics noe one does it better then Naxos.  I will have to buy more of Austne's work done by them.<br />this audiobook contains 3 CD's  and is abridged; yet i do not think i have missed anything in regards to the overall story.  I found listneing to the book very pleasing and will be a fine addition to my audio library.	2002-05-22
US	42856203	R3P6I6Z2372Z6R	9626340061	27779639	The Hunchback of Notre Dame (Classic Fiction)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Religion gone a muck	victor Hugo's passionate story of the unfortunate Quasimodo is also a great expose' on how religion controled the masses in those days.  While Esmeralda is liked for her dancing and tricks; she is also feared and scorned for being in league with the devil.  This is because Frollo the priest who is madly in love with the young gipsy girl has cast her as much.  Yet his hypocrisy shines through when later he declares his love for her.  As well, notice when Esmeralda is living in the cathedral the priest mad with lust nearly rapes her.  Thus he is using his position and power for less then holy deeds.  In addition the church held great influence  over the justice system.  This book is more then a mere love story but a brilliant attack I think on the abuse of power and the evil it brings.  I truly enjoyed this production from Naxos with its musical interludes between the text.  The reader really brought the characters to life and read the book with the right amount of animation.  I highly recommend  it for those who love to listen to classical literature then read it.  another Naxos production to add to my collection.<BR>this audiobook contains 2 CD'; it features period music along with the reading of the text.  The Naxos version is also available on audio cassette.	2002-05-20
US	42856203	R1MGZIT29OIZLF	055352898X	9443085	Enemy Lines I: Rebel Dream (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 11)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The tide begins to shift	Aaron Allston's duology will probalby begin to turn the tables on the deadly Vong.  With the republic's capital world gone and the galaxy all but conquerred our hereos, mainly Luke, Mara Lando Wedge and other key characters from passed novels establish a rebel base on the planet Borlleas in which they recapture back from the Vong.  Here they make a stand and begin to fight back using tactics and specialized weapons which involve the meshing of Vong and republic technologies.  While Wedge assumes control of the entire operation, Luke and others mount a daring mission to infiltrate the capital world and see what can be done there.  Jaina  Kyp and Jag returning from the Hapies cluster also join in the fight.  Jaina has dealt with her need for vengence and even Kyp has grown up a bit too.  Jag ever the skilled pilot joins these two and together engage the enemy in dog fights with the odds stack well against them.  All involved are determined to not let the Vong claim complete victory over the galaxy.  It is an exciting book full of great fighting and stratagy.  You can tell Allston is in top form.  the book does end on a clifhanger of sorts but the second book is not far behind.  I found listening to this book thrilling.  I am glad to see the Vong begin to start taking losses.  the war master especially has begun to suffer with the death of his son in Dark Journey.  However where he is concerned a surprise awaits the reader/listener.  Even our gal Vickey now walks on a thin line.  Great plot development and much suspense...	2002-03-30
US	42856203	RDEZNNL9G1QW0	0553755242	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Can we just get on with it?	this newest entry in the SW library was at best half- interesting.  Whatever excitement the title promises believe me fellow fans it does not deliver.  I am a hard core fan thus i had to buy this book and being an audiophile the CD version of course.  Well, the audiobook was abridged and thank the force for it was boring enough.  I can only imagine how boring the full length version was.  On the plus side, the sound effects were excellent.  if you ever wanted to hear a Hutt fart buy this audiobook.  The beginning of the book did draw me in and I settled in hoping to listen to another exciting story.  However after the healing scene it simply went no where.  It was like Star wars meets the west; complete with showdown and all.  The four jedi in this story were so irratating that I kept hoping for Palpatine to come on and make something happen.  While Anakin and Obi won are part of this book they are nothing more then filler material.  the other two Luminara and her padawan seem to steal the show but are so bland that you really don't care for them much.  The plot itself, trying to stop a world from leaving the republic is thread bare at best.  This is nothing more then a short story or at the very least some junior book made to be a full length movel.  The ending was a bit interesting though even that was a let down.  I mean how original.  I would have liked to have seen more.  In addition I kept hoping for Anakin to burst out in anger to really give us a glimps of the dark lord within him but no such luck.  I finished listening to this book then muttered, is that it?  unlike the suspense filled New Jedi order series, I find these prequel books at times combersome to get through.  I mean lets have a little more action, a few more deaths,some blood shed for crying out loud!  If not that, at the very least lets see the master Palpatine at work behind the scenes like in Cloak of deception and Shadow Hunter.  This one was not up to par with those prequel books.  I hope the prequel books will become more suspenseful as we move closer to episode 3 otherwise fans wont care what happens by then.  At least to compansate we have the New Jedi order series where lots is happening and no one is safe; no shortage of blood shed there.  If you are a hard core fan, read this but don't raise your hopes too high.	2002-02-25
US	42856203	R18XSN8L9A8Z9K	1564310957	468106638	In the Flesh	Books	3	4	11	N	N	More fantasy than horror	In the flesh was not as good as The Inhuman Condition.  While I was glued to my stereo listening to Inhuman I found getting through In the Flesh a bit laborious.  In the four stories presented in this audiobook version, only one, \\"the forbidden\\" could be construed as being a horror tale.  The other thre were really more fantasy then anything else.  The last story, \\"babble's Children\\" was plain silly and stupid.  A filler if there ever was one.  Still, as a whole, the book was entertaining to listen to though the reader, Dillinger Steele, while having a sexy voice, did not truly bring the characters to life.  Barker is english after all and these stories take place in London or have leading English characters.  Steele forgoes any kind of British accent and simply reads the text.  he does convey the drama of the story but at times he mumbles the words or speaks too fast.  yet his overall reading is passible.  As a horror fan, I did enjoy this production and would recommended but it truly does lack the suspense and terror of The inhuman Condition which I also own.  Still, since barker is one of my favorite authors I now have one more book to add to my collection.  buy it if you can though it might be difficult to track down.	2002-02-06
US	42856203	R2NZJ1QSWUS8KW	0553714414	260503270	The Manhattan Hunt Club	Books	3	4	4	N	N	sloppy Joe suspense	On the surface this book is a good read.  The suspense will make you want to keep reading or listening on.  However, one may find getting through all the stereo types used in this story a bit much.  In addition the nice wrapped up ending with a big bow was not to realistic.  Still as a work of fiction it wasn't bad but if Saul was indirectly trying to make a point about the homeless he missed the mark.  In this book they are portrayed as ruthless who can be turned into murderers for a few bucks.  Gay folk are either pathetic or homicidal; and everybody rich or poor is rotten to the core say for our hero of course who is perfect in every way with a perfect girlfriend to boot.  Give me a break!  As well, how many times did the batteries run out in order to move the story along or how many times did characters bump into each other on the subway.  Sorry, once twice okay but not over and over again. A good attempt but could have been more developed and more realistic.  I mean waht was the point for the club leader to go into the tunnels?  Another dumb ploy to get the bad guys?  Lets hope the next one is a bit more better.	2002-01-27
US	42856203	RF57FJ1L14UOS	1570427151	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Pop! goes the weasel	It was something else.  Another great audio adventure from Mr. patterson.  The four horsemen ploy was brilliant and it kept the story suspenseful.  In Pop, patterson even adds a bit of legal flavouring to make things  even more gripping.  I have to say out of all the villains. so far, the weasel is my favorite.  I also enjoyed the surprise ending in this one, a better conclusion then the Cat and Mouse one was though even that book I rated it five stars.  I am also glad that Mr. Patterson's work is now available on Cd which makes for a great sound experience.  I also liked the fact they used three readers for this book.  It really made the story come alive.  I am eagerly now wating for Roses are Red.  Keep them coming James!	2002-01-18
US	42856203	R1O4I5XTBWH594	1570425779	265763987	Cat and Mouse (Alex Cross Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	double trouble	Another suspense filled listen by Mr. patterson.  Having just finshed listening to the heart pounding &quot;Jack and Jill&quot; I immediately popped in &quot;Cat and Mouse&quot;.  once again I was gripped by the story and this audiobook also featured one of my favorite readers, Anthony Heald.  Yes Soneji is back but there is another monster as well, named Mr. Smith.  Both are killing people with no remourse, and both want to challenge Alex Cross to the death.  there are a lot of twists and turns in this book and this time around, Alex Cross doesn't merely get a few cuts and scrapes but suffers much more.  The audio production was again excellent; I really love the duel readers and added sound effects at times.  The love story sub plot got to be a bit too sappy for me but hey Alex deserves a little fun as well.  If I had to say anything critical about this book it would be that the ending was a bit too contrived.  I would have liked to see a more fiery ending then the one in the book.  All and all however book 4 in the Alex Cross series did not fail to keep me glued to my tape player.  Now onto book 5.	2002-01-01
US	42856203	RYCUSND795YGY	1570424373	440825646	Jack & Jill (Alex Cross)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brutal	Jack and Jill is everything a thriller should be.  The story is gripping, the body count plentiful and best of all, there is no sugar coating in describing the death and sex scenes.  I listened to this book with great concentration, losing myself in the story and with my heart beating faster with each new murder.  I loved the story, the sub plots and how it all came together.  A fast read to be sure but a great one.  Mr. Patterson really knows how to write them.  The audio production was excellent.  Two readers were used one for the first person account of Alex Cross and the other for the third person passages.  I also liked the added touch of suspense music and sound effects which really enhanced the audio book to make it sound like you were listening to a movie.  I can't wait now to begin Cat and Mouse and I have already ordered Pop Goes the Weasel so I hope Amazon ships it soon.  A great audio mystery to add to my ever growing audiobook collection.	2001-12-26
US	42856203	R3BLZ3D5N8F2QZ	0970215207	336769416	My Queer Life	Books	4	1	2	N	N	refreshing and funny	Listening to this book I found myself laughing.  The essay regarding his first sexual encounter had to be the funniest of them all.  Ford has a way of pointing out the abserdities of life and the oddities in people.  I like the fact he is a down to earth kind of guy and a true gay man.  this book however would appeal to both gay and straight alike because it is quite funny.  The only thing I did not like about this audio production was the two songs included at the end of each section.  I would have preferred another essay or two in place of the songs.  Still I enjoyed it and hope there will be another volume on audio.  Highly recommended.	2001-12-20
US	42856203	R2SFZO6PSQ79X8	0375419357	87344379	Star by Star (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 9)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Action,action and more action!	Yes it is action packed, and very dark but great as well.  The Vong are ruthless and if they are to be defeated a great price must be paid.  Some fans might not like the dark tones this series has adapted but I for one love it.  Its about time the jedi met a foe that wasn't easily killed offf with one blow from their lightsaber.  I do however have a minor complaint; having purchased the audiobook version I believe it was a tad too abridged this time round.  Abridging a 200 or 300 page book is okay but a large book such as this and with a slue of characters, well I am sure there were sub-plots which I did not find out about.  Yes,as always, the main story was there and music and funky sound effects but I think they should have included a little more.  The reader did a good job and as every other fan,I can't wait for the next one to come outt.  Personally,I would like to see the series get even a little darker before the final turning point comes; but lets spare the solos for a time.  Highly recommended.	2001-12-13
US	42856203	R1Q1YT8RDSN660	B00004Z401	424396269	Tales of Irish Myths	Books	4	0	0	N	N	great little stories	This  is a collection of Irish tales having to do with worriors, princesses, and wizards.  As an adult listener I didn't know what to expect but after hearing the stories on this CD I was drawn in.  The second story in particular is a favorite of mine but all are good.  If you love fantasy stories full of adventure and magic give this collection by Naxos a try.	2001-11-11
US	42856203	R1R65FORHEOXQ9	B000034DHB	674102062	Swann's Way	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful beginning	This is volume one of a 12 volume cycle regarding Proust's Remembrance of things past.  As always Naxos has done an excellent job in putting this literary masterpiece into the spoken word format.  the narrator reads the text with the right tone and pulls the listener in.  The listener's imagination is fired up letting him see, smell, taste, hear, and yes even touch the surroundings depicted in the novel.  Proust does not hold back in describing all the places and people which appear in this volume.  The story itself is full of pathos, humor, and sensuality.  It is a great audio experience and I can't wait to begin volume two, &quot;Swann in love&quot; Highly recommended.  P.S the track listings shown above are wrong by the way the volume itself contains 3 disks not 2; buy it and enjoy.	2001-11-04
US	42856203	R12VOCO0R9DSK2	9626347023	415174844	1: The Complete Works: Emma, Mansfield Park, Northanger Abbey, the Biography	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Jane Austen boxed	I eagerly waited for this box set to arrive and when it did, I listened to all four audiobook productions back to back.  The productions themselves were excellent and the narrators captured the essence of the period in question.  Naxos audiobooks is one of my favorite audio producers and I intend to buy as much of their line as possible.  Now onto Jane Austen.  I think Jane Austen falls under the category of writers which either you love or hate.  On the surface taken each work on the whole, it would appear this woman has nothing to say.  All her books revolve around marriage and it seems that she spends 3 to 4 hundred pages trying to pair a man and a woman up.  Her strong points of course is in her style.  Northanger Abbey did cause me to laugh out loud at certain points and how can you not notice the fiery wit of Emma?  She also has a good grasp of character development and knows how to set the mood.  Yet in both Northanger Abbey and Emma nothing much happens, one keeps hoping for a scandle a murder or theft.  We simply have this charming girl, rich and good looking running around the country side gossiping and not doing much else.  In Northanger Abbey Catherine appears as a complete dullard in some cases.  its like I'm nothing without a man.  Waht I found amusing was the slight but apparent condesention towards Catherine by those around her.  The woman was such an air head she didn't even notice it. My favorite of the three novels included in this box set was Mansfield park; here surprise surprise, something actually happens, something more then gossip and flirting goes on and Austen tackles more themes here then in the previous two other novels.  I have to say however for the record, i can't stand Fanny Price and simply adore mary Crawford.  Of course the two Burtrom girls are delicious as well.  It would have been nice to see Mary however have a little fun with Tom or Edward.  The ending to Mansfield Park had to be a bit of a shocker for those polite days and Ithink Mary Crawford is the liberated feminist in the book even though Jane Austen wasn't exactly aiming for that. Now the biography.  It was okay, but at times it read like a long list of wedding and birth announcements not to mention obituaries as well.  the biography to be frank talks more about the Austen family then about the writer herself.  Personally this is due to the fact, that Ms.  Jane Austen lead a rather dull existance.  Her days were filled with writing, corresponding  with family and friends and travelling from one house to another.  It was disappointing in fact that the biography gave no insight to what triggered Austen's imagination.  Nor where any of the novels analyzed.  One interesting fact is that Jane Austen herself though wrote about love and marriage and was surrounded by family who kept getting married, she herself never did, nor was she ever touched by a man.  In a way I guess this explains why her lead female characters are such prudes at times.<br />Having said the above, I did enjoy this box set very much and plan to purchase the second one which comes out this fall and contains her other three novels plus a novel called Lady Susan which I think she never finished.  heres to Amazon who was the first to make the second box set available for pre order.  on  the whole I would recommend this box set if you love to listen to audiobooks and especially classics.  Its beautiful and a keep sake for years to come.  Bravo to Naxos.  As for Jane austen I think she was talented, but I consider George Eliot a far better writer then her.	2001-08-21
