US	42863831	R143G7ZM0D5TGW	0670034223	416946828	The Ruin of J. Robert Oppenheimer: and the Birth of the Modern Arms Race	Books	5	19	35	N	N	Outstanding and Alarming Warning for Today!	I knew Oppenheimer as a customer of my father, and I was always impressed by how sincere and genuine a human being he was. I'm certain he was a task master and devoted to science, but there was a sense of the consequences of his action, a fundamental humanity, if you will, that certainly was absent from the soul of Edward Teller. And this is a book that details how misinformation and innuendo leaked to the appropariate media would ruin someone who was in the way of a more nefarious and evil agenda. Teller and his colleagues were the Karl Rove and Dick Cheney of their times. Essentially this is a story of jealousy, of power, of corruption in the soul. <br />In addition to his seminal work with the Manhattan Project, Oppenehimer was also a man concerned with the impact on the world thereafter. He admonished Truman not to use what they had developed on no more sophisticated principle than \\"just because you can, doesn't mean you should,\\" a notion wholely lacking in the Bush Administration's Putsch below the 49th parallel. The world community needs to know the perils portrayed in this book as it will provide them with the analyses they need to see beneath the Crusade of Hate and Bigotry at work in a man who doesn't think but believes. Such was the case with Edward Teller.  <br />Teller was an Eastern European fascist (think Rick Santorum with a physics degeree - I know, I know, that's mutually exclusive) who came to the US to fulfill his meglomaniacal and socio-pathological urges. His was a peculair kind of savagery as his lust for the destructive power of the, at that point, theorectical H bomb fueled his mysoginy, his anti-semitism and his misguided research (Teller's own strategies for the Bomb didn't even work on paper - but he did have the Administration's ear). The problem for Teller was Oppenheimer - he was smarter, more thorough, practical, compassionate and aware that science, were it not to give birth to some other nazism in the soul, must have a conscience. Would that the self-named Christians of today would regard faith as bearing that imperative as well. In any case, Teller could not abide Oppenheimer and the prospect that O would ultimately compel the world to be responsible. Teller wanted the power, he wanted deployment, he wanted to strike first. To accomplish this, a bit like saying that you have earned the political capital and you intend to spend it, Teller dug into O's background. Oppenheimer had been sympathetic to the communist theory of a just world order, but like many another intellect, renounced it when the praxis didn't match up. In a US filled with fear of attack from an unknown invader - sound familiar folks? - he and his cadre managed to plant just enough smut into the minds of those who supervise security of the US scientists to smear Oppenheimer. His character maligned, he retreated to Princeton. <br />The book documents this struggle with a gripping sense of tragedy and should inflame anyone with a conscience. It should also be a wake up call, both for the denizens of Amerika and for the rest of us who have to deal with the policies of fear, intimidation, faith and greed. Well, at least until China calls in its debts. <br />We'll see how long it remains available to americans. This is a dangerous book that puts the lie right out there where you can not deny it, no matter how many ethical people you seek to ruin.	2005-08-08
US	42863831	R2G516YNEQWUB4	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	2	9	16	N	N	A tale better left to the Irish...	Ponderously academic (Aristotle's NICOMACEAN ETHICS reads faster) this Yankee take on the Romanian legend is OK at the beginning and then Dickensian in detail as it goes along, without Tiny Tim's creator's ability to breathe life in to all manner of Englishmen. Rather, like the subject himself, as it moves along it eventually and slowly sucks the life out of the tale.  <br />Kostova has had the luxury of travelling nearly everywhere in Eastern Europe and I suspect she must have been paid by the word to describe each setting, culture and tableaux in exhausting detail. At times, it's really quite interesting until you have to remeber where the plot left off. Typical of an English lit major, I suppose. The criticisms that it deadens your interest are valid as are the praise for the command of her subject. But, unless you're Dickens or Pynchon or Eco, you're better off emulating Calvino, Trevor or Kerouac. Get on with it, sister, tell the story. I understand you went to college. <br />So, it's a novel in dire need of a screenplay version, ideally written with Anthony Hopkins in mind. When Vlad does appear, he is not quite the Impaler he was in the 1400's, but that could work quite well were Hopkins given command to interpret a la his Lechter rolls a diabolical menace beneath the librarian, much the way undisclosed pedophiles lurk in the shadows, or serial killers fit so well into a community. But that isn't what is on offer here. <br />If you have the summer to kill, you'll get through this and enjoy most of it. It just ain't all it's hyped up to be. Still, as always, the best version was that told by the gent from County Antrim, which you can still enjoy on face value or in its allegorical references to the social and political (have I mentioned Karl Rove yet) sycophants of our times.	2005-07-13
US	42863831	R24Y2GUDYYNRIK	1932236295	376720598	It Takes a Family: Conservatism and the Common Good	Books	5	11	34	N	N	The Poster Boy of Fascist Amerika	Aryan Catholic stormtrooper and W Brownshirt, Rick Santorum, intones early on that he is not a scholar. Well, he also knows women, once lawfully impregnated(?) should not be in the work force and thereby treated under labor law as equal, that unwed mothers should not be allowed to teach, that public schools are at least god-less, and in some cases filled with religious and ethnic minorities who might impregnate his kinder with all sorts of festering notions. In fact, there's every reason to believe that some of these ethnic and racial minorities who are wedless procreators are actually teaching in said cesspools of genetic mixing! <br />You don't have to read between the lines with this idiot. He regularly spews forth a caveman mentality behind that Crest smile that plays extremely well in parts of Pennsylvania that collectively struggle to reach a double digit IQ. The good news is, in Bob Casey he has an intelligent, ethical, moral Catholic with a brain who will give him a run for his corrupt money. As this race goes in November, so will the fortunes of the neo-nazi Kristianz. This is serious business, volks. <br />To gain some insight into what this cretin stands for, you should read this book cover to cover. Were it not for the fact that Herr Santorum is one of the most powerful fanatics in the Senate, it would be easy to dismiss this as the ruminations of a Klan wannabe. Recognizing that his words as well as his actions have been coming back to haunt him, Santorum has begun attempting to distance himself from Busch. At least verbally. Poor stormtrooper is caught between a rock and a hard place. What's a Nationalist to do when he has pointed out the rug that can be pulled from beneath him? The entire tapestry of that rug is stitched together in this book. I've read reviews that criticize his eloquence. I beg to differ. If you did not know the evil that lurks in the halls of power, Ricky lays it out in plain English. Intelligent design may play a factor in the coming election. If there is a God, aint no way He/She/It should allow Santorum to succeed. I recall an Austrian house painter once who wrote a book or two...... no two ways about it. In less than eloquent terms he laid out a plan of social conservatism for the common good.	2005-07-08
US	42863831	RDLJ11TWQ0UQS	0974537632	879577318	A Deficit of Decency	Books	4	14	42	N	N	YIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!	Whenever I am asked why I believe the Canadian government should seal the 49th parallel, I point to the foaming mouth, bug-eyed performance of this white peach from Georgia during the Republican Putsch in NYC in 2004. While it was positively riveting television, it was also as blunt an assessment of where this whole neo-conservative fascism fuels its deepest resentments, and how hypocritical are the people who govern in the name of what was once a decent country. The idea that you would not goosestep in formation with a Christian fueled fanaticism is as repellent to this reb as Sherman's March through Georgia. Pity George didn't finish the job. <br />Anyway, I got a real hoot out of this book. It is like a cracker's version of Mein Kampf. That Miller would presume to lecture one and all about decency while simultaneously spewing a resentment of dissent should tell you what you need to know about the mind set of those who ignore the environmental, political, ethical, and financial consequences of the havoc they wreak on a planet that they firmly believe God gave them the moral imperative to destroy. And really what is this but a way of burning a neo-con cross on the front yard of those you'd like to intimidate?  <br />So give Goober props for telling it like it is, even if what it is ain't what he reckons. I remeber a friend of mine from Chicago who used to say that he loved George Wallace 'cause you knew exactly where you stood. Same principle, different fanatic. All in all, the only decent thing for others on the North American shelf to do is seal the borders until folks like this choke on their own methane.	2005-06-16
US	42863831	R2ANVHXQ4V4LGK	0060758643	282876111	The Greedy Bastard Diary: A Comic Tour of America	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I laughed and then I went to the loo	and then I read this book. The third tallest Python, and the ambiguously charming songwriter, has delivered his blog into book form in order to squeeze every penny out of the punters who Idle-ize him. And it's worth it. Now that he has hit the big time with Spamalot, perhaps something really seedy and scandolous will come out that will shock Cleese, Palin and Jones back into action. And anything that deals with his especially endearing relationship with George Harrison is worth the price. Get this and tix to Broadway and laugh a lot.	2005-04-19
US	42863831	R25XY2E8GPL078	0805067884	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Once you get past the Schopenauer and Nietzche love fest...	... this is really quite a terrific read. I picked this up based on Magee's reputation in the world of Philosophy, and figured I'd learn a lot, first about Wagner, and then about opera. Magee's work satisfies enormously on all these accounts. Magee clearly loves what he is undertaking and the joy and enthusiasm carry the narrative long with a passionate flow. What was at work in the writings, and to some extent in the life, of Wagner is presented witha clarity and precision that illuminates just how revolutionary and uncompromising a genius Wagner was. The book builds, rightfully, to PARSIFAL, and the radical departure that opera was on a philosophical as well as operatic level. PARSIFAL is the music that endeared me to Knappertsbusch, it is the music that infused Inspector Morse, it is where man's spirituality is relieved of the weight of so much hierarchical baggage and set free, as near an ecstatic experience as is possible to achieve in music, and Magee gets it right in every detail. <br />Of course, along the way, you have to endure the love fest with Schopenauer and Nietzche, against whom, for Magee, all other writers in Philosophy, and especially Hegel, are anathema. Typically British in that respect, Magee none the less delivers brief and informative scribs on the philosophical directions of these 2 writers, and how they intersect with Wagner. <br />Magee saves the most controversial element for the last, that being Wagner's anti-semitism. In what is certainly a valid inquiry, Magee asks what role should any author's prejudices play in evaluating the art if there is no evidence of it in his art. Magee is no apologist for Wagner's roaring and overbearing personality, regardless against whom it is directed, and certainly points out that Wagner was an unabashed anti-semite.  Yet he still relegates the discussion itself to an \\"Appendix.\\" Not entirely cricket. The point that Wagner's operas feature no invectives, no insulting characters, nothing patently directedat anyone other than the powerful, the bourgeoisie, the hierarchies in religion and society, still does not satisfactorily resolve the bad taste in the mouth that the Wagner legacy has left. If you happened to be in that class that he inveighed against in the operas, then you got what was coming to you from Wagner's standpoint. His personal distastes he managed to keep out of his art. So, is it all guilt by association? Largely, to Magee. Odd, though, when you consider the castigation Heidegger went through, having uttered 2 extraordnarily stupid oratories, yet resigning his post when it dawned on him what was going on. Perhaps it is the fact that Wagner's progeny couldn't restrain themselves from blowing kisses to Adolf that will forever rub people the wrong way. The music, especially by the time it got to PARSIFAL, stands on its own. We will have to deal with that on its own terms. Magee's book is an exacting look at those terms and worth the read by anyone with a love for great music.	2005-01-26
US	42863831	R3ULL7CPYD2DGV	1401301347	457785813	When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?	Books	2	6	21	N	N	cantankerous screed, occasionally funny	Poor George. The world pisses him off and there's nothing he can do about it. Don't get me wrong, there are moments through this book that are particularly insightful and very funny, as he attacks how language insidiously breeds its political and religious agendas; however, there are other very long stretches where George is that obnoxious bore at the end of the bar. The 7 dirty words were a riot the first time thru back 30 years ago. Incantations not with standing, the repititive invocations here are just simply a droning and monotonous inveighing that when it doesn't strike you as unimaginative is then patently and moronically of no effect. I've always admired someone who can roll off a curse with aplomb. George isn't one of them. So, shell out the coins to the NY hustler if you must. Maybe one day he'll have enough to hire an editor.	2004-12-07
US	42863831	RARC616ZP42Y6	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	50	164	N	N	Poorly Written Polemic, Partisan Apolgetics for neo-Fascists	As a Canadian, let me at least get it across to the denizens below the 49th parallel, we think you're a lot more dangerous than Osama. The reason? Well, it comes down to the fundamentalist Putsch, the likes of which haven't been seen since Berchtesgarten back in the good old days of Munchen in the late twenties. As America foams at the mouth, the rest of the world wonders should you really be the last superpower ( the Chinese may change that anyway). This book, invectively railing against all and any credit that John Kerry might take for, in fact, serving in Viet Nam, is just the latest manifestation of a mentality that conceives of all the world as a place to run riot with American products, sensibilities, and demands. Problem is, it is a consumptive disease that has already poisoned your waters, our air, your minds. Georg Wilhelm Friederich Hegel observed in the Prussia of his time that people are only too willing to sell their rights for money. Bush offers a few sheckels and the rubes in the electorate annoint him king. <br />In fact, Kerry may not be all that much different. But at one point in his life, Kerry did turn his back on his privileged position and stood up and was counted. Easily enough, he could have &#34;served&#34; in the National Guard or made sure he was posted in Europe/Japan/Tennessee or some other third world place. Instead he went with the assignment to Viet Nam because if he did not, someone else would have to go in his place. That might very well be the very last time an American stood for anything decent. In fact, he rescued a man serving on a another boat from at least injury and possibly death. Hmm, that makes 2 points in the karma column. And he was in fact wounded and awarded ribbons and metals, and still carries shrapenl in his legs. I understand how honourable it is to ask your father to get you in the Guard rather than risk getting your life taken from you, worthy binge that it was at that point. It is only human. Kerry's real storyis not that he was or was not in Cambodia, let alone at any given Christmas, he WAS in Viet Nam. W ain't sure where he was, and that's when he was supposed to be in Alabama, working for the re-election of a crony of dear ol' dad who was somewhere to the right of Trent Lott. Given that it was a time when civil rights in America where still largely a battle (W must tear up when he thinks of those days), one wonders why it would not have occurred to him to get involved with that cause. I suppose he has his own shrapnel from crushing beer cans into his forehead, but that somehow does not really stand up next to Kerry. <br />As to these mucks, the authors have written as poorly a constructed book as current publishing houses will allow: think world history as written by a football player. A real editor would have tossed this. For all the carping about Christmas in Cambodia, about how many VC were actually in the delta the day of the rescue, about the personality conflicts that seem to portray the US effort in Viet Nam as a vanity contest, what remains is that a man of considerable privilege put his life on the line, and then regretted what he had participated in (it might serve the self-righteous Swifties to remember that the VC never perpetrated a My Lai, that the Gulf of Tonkin incident never happened &#60;which is why they were sent there in the first place&#62;, that the candidate they believe is fit to serve was on a 5 year bender at that point, fit to serve indeed.). <br />I'll be glad to see Nov 2 come and go. Books like this will be used to kindle fireplaces, and the muck of a divided nation may be contained for once to its own borders. You people have alot to set your minds to besides this rubbish. You better start thinking how you're going to undo the damage you've caused globally before the rest of us present the bill.	2004-08-25
US	42863831	R2UQZU7U4R3WIU	1571314172	994717834	Playing the Black Piano: Poems	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Music, Death, Love, and Lemon Merengue Pie	At the end of the day, it's what the poetry does to you, not the bases it touches to please the critics and academics. Read this book. These are poems to mull, consider, weigh. They come from a mind and a heart and soul as deep as you'll likely ever encounter. Think only of the ones who mean the most to you, that is how Holm poetically dwells in this collection. The stories cover the disconnect in American (i.e. US) life fostered by the mistaken notion that we own something/anything, especially the corporate monster. He reflects on how transient the time is we have with those who impact us most and how lasting their memory is. A friend dies of Aids. Death sits in a straight back chair waiting for him as he rediscovers Haydn. Beethoven, Mozart and Schubert walk across the background of the mirror in which he surveys what has happened in his life. An MRI and the simple minded attendant provoke replies of a life well considered, and supremely annoyed by the ephemeral. <br /> Never knew anything about Holm until I was given this by Thuy. I have read and re-read these poems and expect to do so with whatever time I have left. Holm advises you to play your music now. As his friend admonishes, &quot;Eat dessert first. Life is short and uncertain.&quot;	2004-08-02
US	42863831	R1KGYXXPKCV1BL	0226066649	634500285	Philosophy in a Time of Terror: Dialogues with Jurgen Habermas and Jacques Derrida	Books	3	30	45	N	N	A Philosophy left on the table....	The main issues I have with this book are:<BR>1. the dialogue with Habermas is way too short. I don't know if he was on a time line, but, it is just as he is gathering a full head of steam that everything ends, and what he has to say and to subject to thoughtful consideration is profoundly worth mulling over deeply. I kept wishing Borradori would continue to probe further with Habermas. He is the foremost thinker in Germany since Heidegger and is as creatively determined to tackle this issue of terrorism as anyone could aspire to. He goes after the issues with a passion and a commitment. Perhaps there will be more from him in his own write in the future.<BR>2. Derrida likes to hear himself talk and see himself write. The foremost exponent of Thesaurus Philosophy, Derrida does not so much hermeneutically deconstruct as blather on, much like a Michael Palin riff in Monty Python. Read the opening pages of the dialogue with Derrida, and then go watch Palin in THE CONCERT FOR GEORGE HARRISON, and I dare you to deconstruct the difference. I keep expecting Derrida to launch into the Lumberjack Song. He gets to the meat of the issue but then becomes obsessed with his own vocabulary, like the boring uncle at family gatherings. You would think there would be more drive from somone who experienced the sort of childhood and coming of age that he did, but, like so many other French thinkers, he seems to fall in love with the way words roll off. <BR>3. Borradori comes up short with Habrmas and doesn't cut off or focus Derrida enough. Too much of her post dialogue analyses is reiiterative.<BR>That's a pity on many fronts, because there is a significant trail to be traced from Kant through Hegel and into the Twentieth Century about the nature of peace, government and the fact that as Kant observed this is a bloody small planet and we need to figure out how we are all going to live on it without resorting to the criminality of these past centuries. Habermas is clearly focused on such questions. Derrida can clearly see the need to come to terms with them. A more disciplined interviewer might have made this the tome it could have been. God knows we need it.	2004-03-22
US	42863831	R2M6IYY7Y8B3OR	0151005257	512087721	Letters : 1925-1975	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Heidegger as Dasein	Well, this is quite a surprising little book that casts Martin Heidegger less as the controversial and unrelenting thinker, and more as a man in his world concerned with the quality and concerns of his life and career. It is also an extraordinarily personal and endearing extended love letter to a woman who meant the world to him.<br />This will strike the usual Heidegger reader as entirely different. There is no hidden marvellous de-coding of his demanding trek. This is a collection of mostly Martin's letters to Hannah with a few responses. The collection spans the course of their lives, and clearly show not only how much he loved her but how much he trusted in her thinking. They were equals in far more sophisticated ways and in far more honest and enduring ways than Sartre and deBeauvoir, who come across as petty bourgeois rats in Henri-Levy's recent biography.<br />No, here you'll find sign posts and journal entries along the path to Language, Thinking, Heracleitus and Parmenides, Totalitarianism, and the resolution of past controversies. There are Romantic and Philosophical poems (yup, Martin was smooth), endearments and sentinments that come from the heart.<br />Heidegger refudiates categorically any notion that he is anti-Semitic, and in truth, there's no evidence that he ever was. A bit stupidly enthralled with German nationalism, and certainly a supporter of National Socialism as opposed to Communism, but not anti-Semitic. He refuses to engage in any mea culpa's on that score, and that's it, as far as he is concerned. Arendt, herself Jewish, must have believed him. And that's good enough for me, in any case.<br />But there is so much more to their relationship than just this point. Her presence in his life upset Elfride Heidegger. There is a curious absence of Hannah's letters to Martin, and perhaps Elfride or Jorg or Hermann decided against preserving them. It's a pity. They clearly had an impact on Martin. Nonetheless, the story of their emotional and philosophical lives continues apace, and the real hallmark of this story is that it succeeds in getting the reader to think, as Heidegger so desperately wanted humans to do, about the little things that we often take for granted, and yet open the way to what is hidden. Hannah has a brilliant description of what Heidegger is about about midway through the book, just before the &quot;Autumn&quot; section begins. It is an analysis that only comes from someone who honestly knows the person she admires, loves and respects, and it thoroughly presents Martin Heidegger as he is.<br />This isn't weighty stuff for the advance seminars, just a brilliant and extraordinarily personal view of the two greatest philosophical minds of the twentieth century. And it is quite moving.lives continues apace, and the real hallmark of this story is that it succeeds in getting the reader to think, as Heidegger so desperately wanted humans to do, about the little things that we often take for granted, and yet open the way to what is hidden. Hannah has a brilliant description of what Heidegger is about about midway through the book, just before the &quot;Autumn&quot; section begins. It is an analysis that only comes from someone who honestly knows the person she admires, loves and respects, and it thoroughly presents Martin Heidegger as he is.<BR>This isn't weighty stuff for the advance seminars, just a brilliant and extraordinarily personal view of the two greatest philosophical minds of the twentieth century. And it is quite moving.	2004-02-28
US	42863831	R26NVXN203SGA8	0312311443	545156245	The Pythons: Autobiography by the Pythons	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	The Life Of Monty	In many ways, this large tome is infinitely more satisfying than any of their shows, movies and records because of just how funny, sad, amazing, hysterical, and bizarre the reality is. They were quite a jolt to American TV and International film, but in fact, followed in a rather historical line directly from the Goon Show, Morecombe and Wise, David Frost. British comedy really had no where else to go but the land of the Pythons.<BR>Here in this book you'll get what amounts to 6, and sometimes more, accounts of how they came together via their Oxford and Cambridge revues, to spot each other as worthy colleagues. Certainly, it was writing for Frost that sealed the decision, but even as the essential teams of Cleese and Chapman, Jones and Palin had coalesced with Gilliam and Idle idling in the between them, you get from their stories pre and post Monty that they knew they were destined to work with each other almost from their first meetings. Jones comes across as the sensible Welshman with a keen ear for Everyman/woman. Palin is the adorable naughty fellow with a nod and a wink, whose ability to fend off the assaults of Cleese and Chapman made for the most memorable moments in Python history. Cleese seemed shot out of a cannon at birth and never looked down. His ability and courage to push the envelope as far as he could (it was likely he who suggested they do away with punch lines) gave them an insanity that was extraordinarily daring. Who else would have the chutzpah to intone in LIFE OF BRIAN among the Jewish rebels, \\"What have the Romans done for us lately?\\" Idle is the charmer, and the smarmy raconteur who seemed most equipped to handle the bridge between the Oxford and Cambridge camps. And it was his friendship with George Harrison that enabled Monty to actually tackle LIFE in all its repercussions. Chapman is the tragic figure in all of this. Self-deprecating, guilt ridden \\"my parents were quite unprepared to have begat a homosexual. They'd have much preferreda heterosexual black Jew,\\", he pursued a life of excess that often left the others hanging in the balance, and yet it was Chapman as the quintessentially clueless upper class Brit that seemed to identify how disconnected stratas fo British society had become. His Brian was perhaps even more of a compassionate hero for the ages than the genuine character he was meant to allude to, and yet he offered none of that sympathy to himself. Gilliam seemed always odd man in, and fit the others like a bad suit, which was what made him that perfect finishing touch for the remarkable trajectory in the Life of Monty.<BR>They hold nothing back, and the ugly squabbles, the anxieties, the dismay at Chapman's self-destructive activities are also frankly and compassionately addressed. Much like the Beatles, once Chapman succumbed to Aids and then cancer, there would be no real reunion effort. The fellowship had indeed been broken. Various members of the team managed to get on each other's nerves from time to time. Cleese's legendary arrogant contrariness is clearly on display. There was always more Basil Fawlty to him that he was quite prepared to self-parody than you may have guessed. And through it all, even as they re-convened for this project (much like the Beatles' ANTHOLOGY), there is that undeniable creativity. No one has ever acheived what they have in comedy, save possibly the Marx Brothers.<BR>The book is beautifully put together, and covers their story thus far. If you are a fan, you will positively love this. Each of them is given all they room they need, even Chapman, to tell it from their angular vision. Taking all the angles together, it makes for quite a story.	2004-01-04
US	42863831	R2VEAAGFUI2CP6	0879307641	612331249	Jimi Hendrix Musician	Books	4	21	26	N	Y	An Excellent Review of One Who Dared to Kiss the Sky	This coffee table sized tome would make a perfect gift for anyone with an avocation for all things Hendrix. This is a well researched and documented account of the career and personal history of Jimi Hendrix. Shadwick has done a terrific job casting the historical setting that made both his music nad himself possible. While not the musicologist's tome that Lewis Porter did on John Coltrane, the research and writing here is absolutely first rate.<BR>Shadwick clearly sets an historical line that preceeded Hendrix as musician and showman both in the course of R and B and Blues and Jazz (louis Jordan, T Bone Walker, the Isleys, etc) as well as that mix of Cherokee and African family heritage and  culture that made him so unique. I'm not clear whether or not this has the official approval of the Hendrix Estate, but it should. It is a compassionate, yet unblinking study of his intrepid courage, his core humble hamnity, and the havoc wrought by the struggles and the success in a world of rock going crazy. In so many ways the &quot;cult of personality&quot; was born around and out of the fascination and adoration of Jimi Hendrix, first and foremost as a musician, and as just this wild hippie, which image became the whale that swallowed the Jonah of new music. At a time when he most needed to retreat from being &quot;Jimi Hendrix&quot; an entire network had contrived to ensnare him The dismay expressed by Mitchell, Redding and Cox is squarely legitimate and indicts for all time those whose msiion it was to consume him.<BR>It clearly jumps out at you who was loyal to Hendrix as a human being, who sycophantically fed off him like a pernicious cancer, destroying a brilliant and yet essentially very kind man. It will aways be one of the great unanswered questions as to where he might have gone with his music. In the case of Coltrane, John had come to contemplate the face of God and may not have been able to articulate any further the rapture he experienced, and thus he may not have died so much as ascended into heaven. <BR>In the case of Hendrix, he had inadvertently grasped onto death's doorhandle and while looking for a way to rise like a Phoenix from what he had clearly perceived as an exhausted road, he did not so much select his end as be virtually tossed from the window while scanning the horizon for a new rising sun. <BR>The book is loaded with great photos and an index, set of references and a discography that is definitively well documented. The interviews recounted with friends, family, loved ones and villains is even handed and objective. This is a terrific book, definitely the best there is about a man whose music impacted and changed forever the way dedicated artists considered their craft. And no one has played the guitar the same way since Jimi Hendrix. He changed everything.	2003-12-05
US	42863831	R34HJD97VHSO9N	0226233502	457170878	The Religious Dimension in Hegel's Thought	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Wonderful Explication	With the passing recently (September, 2003) of Rabbi Dr Fackenheim, the world has lost a dedicated teacher. It was a great honour to study with Dr Fackenheim at Toronto in the seventies, and in particular, to consider the religious dimension in Hegel's thought with his guidance. This is a wonderful explication from which his lectures and reconsiderations evolved. If you have an avocation for Hegel, this is on a par with Hyppolite and Gadamer. The world of Philosophy lost a very dedicated teacher who understood his profession as a calling. He will remain an inspiration to all of us who were lucky to know him.	2003-09-23
US	42863831	R33TFF2GDPNX2	0521003873	350209058	Hegel: A Biography	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Brilliant!	While you are unlikely to approach Hegel aa a novice, all the same, if you were and did, this is a remarkably well written, clear presentation of Hegel's life and thinking, as well as a thoughtful setting of the philosophical questions of his time. It was a time when thinking still mattered to the spirit of a people. Pinkard has written a great account of a life of a man who sought his own voice after so many disappointments. His friendship with Holderlin, his relationship with his illegitamate son, his rancourous rapport with his nephew, the slights suffered working for philistines or in the shadows of lesser minds were the sand in his soul that ground a pearl. Pinkard details them all with a truly 21st Century American voice, and in so doing makes the drama of Hegel's life present to today.<BR>Pinkard is another great Georgetown Hegelian in the line of Wilfrid Desan, and in so doing weaves the dynamics of Hegel's life into the dialectics of his thinking. Pinkard presents a terrifically concise and to the point analysis of the immediate momentums initiated by Kant, Fichte, Schelling and others, casts them in as true a light as possible, and so opens an entire tradition, well regarded for its complexity for consideration by those trained in this tradition as well as by those wondering what all the fuss was about. Hegel was not an Ivory Tower elitist. His life formed the ground of his philosophy, and while he was also not an everyman, he is one in whom thinking took hold at any early age and kept calling him out into its light. Hegel meant that his writings have an impact. He was not interested in building flights of fancy that had no repercussions for culture, politics, spirituality. He distanced himself from traditions that would have ensnared him, compromised his boldness, and left him in a tradition, instead of clearing new ground.<BR>Pinkard clearly shows how and why you have to deal with Hegel in Western Philosophy, just as much as you have to confront Plato, Aristotle, Kant. Nothing was the same after Hegel. History, psychoanalysis, culture, politics were all forever changed. His was an original voice, and the call, once heard, altered everything.<BR>I keep returning to the point that this is a great read. And it is! So novice or enthusiast, you'll find this a book you'll return to often. This should be mandatory reading for anyone pursuing a higher education. The lessons of the life as well as the philosophy produced deserve thoughtful consideration.	2003-08-23
US	42863831	RRNYP68AZ7815	081269502X	841282337	The Matrix and Philosophy: Welcome to the Desert of the Real (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	2	6	23	N	N	On Second Thought.....	Heidegger and an entire tradition in Western Thought that began with Thales back in the day are likely wondering by now if an unexamined life might be best left alone. This is MTV philosophy: an entertaining read for 3 or 4 minutes at a time, then go get a pepsi. Like the film, it is a bit of harmless fun. <BR>If however, the suggestion is put forth taht there is something besides pop culture going on here, better we should all head back to the Cave and stay put staring at the shadows.	2003-06-03
US	42863831	R3KHFADAK5BMQM	039332298X	144018507	Socrates Cafe: A Fresh Taste of Philosophy	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Meetings with Remarkable Thinkers	This is a great little book that is part Robert Pirsig, part Robert Fripp, part Gurdijeff, part Plato. I mean this in all the highest forms of flattery. Phillips presents philosophy as something lived and to be lived. It is a bit like taking the Socratic pursuit of Thinking, throwing it in Heideggerian fashion into being and then asking for questions in most unacademic places. Christopher Phillips has &quot;rescued&quot; Thinking from its academic brackets in the process.<br />It is also Chris's story. Interwoven with his wonder at the remarkable observations of children, senior citizens, prisoners, men and women he meets in cafes is the story of his life as well. So, at times I thought of Robert Pirsig, at times King Crimson diarist Robert Fripp. Elements of Gurdijeff's MEETINGS WITH REMARKABLE MEN are given uncanny twists: sometimes it is a Mexican kid from the mission district in San Francisco, sometimes a white collar criminal who realizes too late how and whereby he messed up his life. Some of the people are looking for Truth, be it emotional or spiritual truth. Sometimes unexpected answers are uncovered. At all times, Phillips recognizes that this is as close to the real deal as Philosophy can get.<br />This will not satisfy the academic who believes that sophisticated answers are found only in the in-bred world of the ivory tower. There is no Wittgenstein upheaval of Western Thought, no Quine like analyses of the logical positivistic framework. Nope, just folks thinkin seriously about their lives. Somehow because it is not a task for profit and career, it is all the more genuine. Fripp once noted that the professional (musician) when confronted with an abyss will play what he knows, while the amateur will exceed what he knows because he doesn't know to stop. That's what is at work here. Phillips will draw historical analyses as points are made, but the references are really beside the point. He has done something remarkable, or perhaps the thinkers he has encountered have done something remarkable: they have reclaimed the Socratic dictum of an examined life for themselves, and as such, they have stood up, pointed the way out of the cave to the true light.<br />This is a book to cherish, and to be enjoyed by all ages. I've just finished it and have given it to my 11 year old niece in St Louis. I suspect we'll have much to talk about. Thank you, Chris.ered have done something remarkable: they have reclaimed the Socratic dictum of an examined life for themselves, and as such, they have stood up, pointed the way out of the cave to the true light.<BR>This is a book to cherish, and to be enjoyed by all ages. I've just finished it and have given it to my 11 year old niece in St Louis. I suspect we'll have much to talk about. Thank you, Chris.	2003-04-14
US	42863831	RA3F623D4UGL5	0805058370	439117283	Mason & Dixon: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A bit like that opening snowball...	This one melts and fades. You don't wander into Pynchon casually, and so it was with all motors on that I approached this reworking of the Mason Dixon line. In the end, it isn't my favourite Pynchon story, and somehow, Mark Knopfler got the story across better in the 5 minute &quot;Sailing to Philadelphia&quot; than Pynchon does in this sprawling, somewhat messy and incongruous book.<BR>Maybe it was the odd-ball juxtapositions of robotics, animated talking dogs, just stuff that sometimes felt like distractions for the sake of distractions. There is quite a story at work here, as the human mind comes face to face that something other always eludes its analysis. I've always thought of Pynchon as a novelist exploring the phenomenology of Heidegger and the mysticism of both the ancient Greeks as well as the East. That surfaces at times, particulalrly when the friendship between Charlie Mason and Jeremiah Dixon strains under the pressures of their commissions.<BR>But where GRAVITY'S RAINBOW dealt explicitly with the topics of BEING AND TIME, and VINELAND delivered the passion of THE QUESTION CONCERNING TECHNOLOGY,  there seems a mess of all sorts of ideas here in this book that just don't seem to hold my attention.<BR>GRAVITY and VINELAND were absolute page turners for me. I failed to show up for work once I began those stories. This one was an effort. It might be me. Perhaps I've gone past this particular style. Or perhaps, more tragically, this is just style. This too has fallen to the pull of whatever literary gravity comes with being Thomas Pynchon.<BR>LOT 49  and V and SLOW LEARNER all seemed to be benchmarks on the way. And in all honesty, LOT 49 might well be the story of Neil Young and Crazy Horse, but whatever, they were the vapor trails of a spirit in trajectory. This one has fallen like a Scud in western Pennsylvania. The human factor got lost in the gizmos and Deus ex machinas crowding the background for screen time, like so many Catherine Zeta Jones.<BR>Maybe the next one will........ well, who knows, better to just see what happens.......	2003-04-12
US	42863831	RIF8ZKBX2EG9J	0141180633	167202132	Vineland (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	What you discover when you clear away the brush.....	that hides your soul is the subject, focus, dialectic of this remarkable achievement. From my standpoint, this is one of the greatest novels ever written, and deals so viscerally and passionately with the questions a man faces in dealing with how he might have been, even willingly, ground beneath the wheel of a technological age. Our alienation from our planet is played out in our relationships. Sexuality takes the place of intimacy, technicological surveillance usurps wisdom and insight, and yet the human soul refuses to take the hemlock, and like a Socratic heroine and hero who have resolved to rise up from paying homage to the shadows before them,  a daughter's search for her mother and her father's search for himself uncover all the dangerous questions we face when our lives come apart. And in the end there is a triumph of profound dimensions. I would encourage you to pick this up at once. I have read it several times and come away enriched after each reading. This is the story of how we exist at this point in the epoch of time.	2003-04-12
US	42863831	R3TPVR9GZ9GKL7	0671252410	393936756	A Man	Books	5	30	37	N	N	"And what do you think a man is?"......	Perhaps one of the most powerful books ever in Western culture, this recasting of a profoundly human story cuts as deep to the core of the heart and soul as anything you will ever read. This isn't the pop trifle of mystery writers like Ludlum et al, but the dire consequences of becoming a true existential hero. Sartre and Camus should have had the huevos of Alekos. <BR>I first read this in the early 80's and have read it many times since. This is a story of bravery, of frustration, of human frailties, of the struggle of a people to wrest control of its destiny away from the merciless militaristic regime (anyone in America paying attention here?) in the very land where democracy was created, of a man dealing with his mysoginy, and a woman loving this man as he works through the conflicts that he has willingly inherited and just as willingly seeks to resolve.<BR>All the characters are flawed and that is why this is such a remarkable triumph. You will break down in tears as you move toward the inevitable conclusion. Greece has not had a hero like this since Socrates. And what all of them go through is more gut wrenching than anything you will ever read anywhere else. This is the story Costa-Gavres' \\"Z\\" was based on. By all means, if you care about freedom, the human soul, the passions that grip a man and a woman as they attempt to deal with the highly charged issues of their own romance while facing down a government prepared to grind them under the wheel, you have a moral imperative you owe to yourself to read this story.<BR>Oriana Fallaci is a remarkable, liberating writer. Whatever I have read by her has moved me, whether or not I agree with her opinions and directions. This book stripped my soul bare and made me ask myself more questions than anything I have ever read.<BR>Do you want to know hat is a man? Do you really want to know what is in the soul, the heart, the intelligence of a man? Are you really prepared to face the answers and implications of these questions?.....	2003-03-05
US	42863831	R22U1LJTQJAWCV	0674387090	230983022	Martin Heidegger: Between Good and Evil	Books	5	19	26	N	N	How to begin.....	There are a lot of reasons why I was interested in picking this book up: my mentor at Georgetown, Wilfrid Desan, stressed how important it was to know the life of a philosopher, even the likes of Quine, because philosophy is ever and always about one's life. In the case of Heidegger, the mysteries of this man, the profound impact of his work on the course of 20th century thinking, the controversies of his politics all left me wondering how to get a grip on this man.<br />This book is not for beginners. I've spent my undergraduate and graduate years studying Heidegger. Like a moth to the flame, and it consumed me in every regard. His books have totally spun me inside out, shook me to my soul, sent me off into Asian thought. If ever there was a Dasein thrown, yers trewly is it. How to begin to come to terms with this writer?<br />Safranski does an absolutely brilliant job at delineating the strands of thinking leading up to the advent of phenomenology. But, as I say, this isn't for the novice or the casual reader. This is disciplined, committed writing in service of Thinking itself. There are no two ways about it, Heidegger erupted into the Twentieth Century. There seemed to be a sense among his teachers that this was an extraordinary thinker. As he gains the acceptance and posts of influence in German university life, he gains his confidence and from the point of BEING AND TIME onward, nothing, absolutely nothing will ever be the same.<br />This book documents the transitions remarkably and with great clarity.<br />Of course, one of the things that troubled me the most in my undergraduate days was the prospect of Heidegger's anti-Semitism and his political allegance to the Nazis in the early days of their rise to power, all the while entering into a passionate romance with Hannah Arendt. The book does not hide or apologize for Heidegger. But it seems clear that it is not real clear just how anti-Semitic he was. He quite directly states to Arendt that he finds his Jewish students annoying, and he somewhat buys into the supremecy of the German state espoused by the 1920's and early 30's Nazis. And he very definitely benefits from their appointments. Yet, he witholds. His wife does not. She is clearly and vehemently disgusted by Jewish people. I'm sure that her husband's affair with Arendt only added fuel to that fire. Yet Heidegger does not seem to buy the whole program. On the other hand, he does little or nothing to help Arendt get out of Germany, and nothing at all to save Edith Stein, his colleague from their days with Husserl, who had become a Catholic nun, was murdered at Auchwitz and has since been canonized. Nor is he willing to give a full and clear account of himself in the trials after the war. I am as puzzled now as I have always been. Was this incredible thinker also so filled with narrow mindedness that he could watch a people get exterminated because some of his students were annoying him?<br />And as his thought began to walk more Buddhist paths, how did he resolve this great beginning of thinkng with the conflicts in his life? Those questions are not answered. Still in all, this book is a remarkable achievement. I could go on about so many other aspects, but I'll leave it at this: this is a book about a man's beginning, about being thrown fully consciously into the ground of thinking, and it uncovers what he found in the clearing with great insight.	2003-03-05
US	42863831	R2VHBHVCEGU5I4	0691020531	708416216	Parables of Kierkegaard	Books	4	12	13	N	Y	EVEN OUT OF CONTEXT, IT'S A GREAT READ	Soren was a brilliant surveyor of the human soul. Collected in this volume are what amounts to a greatest hits of parables highlighting the discoveries he made along the way that compel the reader to get off the philosophical phence when it comes to life's decisions. Don't sweat the small stuff? More like, Think, Choose, and the small stuff never surfaces. Perhaps the greatest of all his parables is &quot;The Jewel on Thin Ice&quot;, and its inclusion here is worth the purcahse price all by itself.<br />If you are familiar with Kierkegaard, you know what a brilliant reference tome this will be. If you are not, this is a great way to begin your examination of a man who was justifiably the Danish Dalai Lhama. His spirituality is immersed in being present in the moment, and would lay the foundation for all existentialist (i.e., Buddhist thinkers in Western trappings) thought in the 20th Century from Husserl and Sartre to Heidegger and Neil Young.<BR>Well done, well worth keeping by your reading lamp. It is a jewel on thin ice well worth risking one's immersion.	2003-02-24
US	42863831	R3KI1UVIR9BPE4	0679427724	555570204	Shakey: Neil Young's Biography	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Hard to Imagine How Else to do it, Heh heh	At one point in my adolescence, I adored all and everything Neil. I got over it. Particularly once I got some insight on what went on at the ranch.<BR>In some respects, Neil is a character out of &quot;The Crying of Lot 49.&quot; Well certainly, Crazy Horse is. So, while Jimmy McDonough is no great writing stylist, all the same his loosey-goosey approach and road diary effort to track down what is the ontological truth of the Ontario loner is perhaps the best way of going about a tale that is at best and at times designedly hazy on details.<BR>It seems most of the folks who have known Young were quite willing to present their take on the subject, and all seem to share a conviction in being as open as possible, well, maybe not CSN, but they actually have something to lose. What comes out of this are very humourous tales, very shocking portraits, and a sense that while Crosby was pontificating about Nixon and the Decline of the Roman Empire, Neil was chronicaling its demise and the soundtrack composed for it by all and everyone he knew, including himself.<BR>This is very much a tale only Pynchon could have imagined, and while in recent years, likely as a result of what he has had to do as a father, he has redeemed himself, certainly in the deepest part of the 70's, his hand was as much in the tragedy of those around him as anyone. There are issues to be examined about his relationship with women, most of whom come away with baggage, unless they have had the sense, like Mitchell, not to get emotionally in over their heads. Young is singularly focused on his career throughout, and so people can easily become disposable as he goes for what he wants. That's admirable, but it comes with sinister elements.<BR>Through all of this, Neil is quite objective. The fact that he has been horrible at times does not deter him. The impact of his mother is significant, and yet, Neil is very much a loving son to both of his parents. <BR>When you finish this book, you are no closer to understanding Neil, but you have a sense of the interior roads he's travelled. In the clinch, he managed to cast away McDonough as well. Manipulated at the end, McDonough has perhaps written as accurate a travelogue of the journey through the past as one may ever write about Neil.	2003-02-21
US	42863831	R3FUJM25LN2KKX	0609609750	349000120	Dinner After Dark: Sexy, Sumptuous Supper Soirees	Books	4	15	24	N	Y	All Style......	I have to be upfront and say that basically, I don't like this guy. More's the pity for me because he has style in spades. The menus are at times great, at times bs, but it is the setting in which he casts them that sets him apart. <BR>There is much to admire in how the entire look of this book comes off. I'm in the catering business and so I recognize why it is important to light and display the dishes as he does. I also know that, at least in Philadelphia, there are maybe 4 people who can afford this stuff. <BR>Still, it's fun to dream. I fully expect that some self-satisfied gourmand of an SUV-driven horse farm owning young republican wag will be waving this tome in front of me insisting I recreate the magic herein for $30 a head.<BR>But I'll try my best not to blame Cowie. I still can't tell if he actually does perform these parties (note I did not say 'cater'), or whether it is all MS photo shoots. They might be real, not everyone in these photos looks that great. Or maybe they just don't stand a chance next to the food, the linens, the candles, the china, etc......	2003-02-04
US	42863831	R3NKCPT9DC4ZJB	0195137876	877325275	The Sacred Willow: Four Generations in the Life of a Vietnamese Family	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Personal Account of the Impact of history	Duong Van Mai Elliott has given the world as intimate an account of the entire breath of Viet Namese history as you'll ever encounter. It is remarkable how close to the ground her family has always been throughout her country's efforts to break the bonds of colonialism, regardless of the oppressor. She casts history accurately, relates its impact on her forebears and brings the whole discussion front and center in the conflicts that arise among siblings as they come to terms with some who embrace Ho Chi Minh, others who embrace US personnel.<BR>Mai's own story is full of that heart-rending division as she comes to term with her husband's family, who while very supportive of their daughter-in-law, really are not aware of the enormous drama taking place in the souls of this family. It is not like the Viet Namese to be outwardly emotional, and so their resolve to be brave in the face of often crushing personal sacrifice leaves you stunned.<BR>One of the things I got from this book was that the US never stood a chance. The Us never understood what the central issue was for the Viet Namese people, inspite of having liberated themselves from similar colonialism in their own history. Replacing one colonialist for another, be they kinder or crueler, was not the point: they were still colonialists, and too often the US opted for choices based on ideologies instead of on the human factor, a point the Viet Minh knew was more powerful than bullets.<BR>The war decimated Viet Namese as well as Americans, a point too often overlooked in the rush to build monuments to people who had no business there to begin with. The killing fields that would follow in the wake of the US departure would exact a toll on the humanity of a remarkable people. Time would show that the ideologues of Uncle Ho were little better than oppressors from afar. Mai saw it up close and personal.<BR>The familial rifts remained. Still there is so much healing needed. This book will not resolve anything for the reader. Imstead, it shows that history happens to real families. Holocausts impact real people. The numbers and the monuments don't tell the story at all.	2003-02-04
US	42863831	R1TVY21QPBLL3Q	0312267177	568984342	Catfish and Mandala: A Two-Wheeled Voyage Through the Landscape and Memory of Vietnam	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	One of the Best, Absolutely Best Books I've ever read	This book will live with you forever. My interest in this came from a Viet Namese friend who emigrated here with her family in the 90's. Thuy suggestion to read this book intrigued me, and from the first pages I understood thoroughly what she meant by the urgency in her suggestion.<br />This is a tale of a family desperate to leave the oppression and disillusionment that followed the North Viet Namese victory in the long struggle to be free from outside colonists. What ensued was a nightmare of epic proportions. It is only now that Saigon's influence is returning to open the country up to the possibility of getting on with life in any kind of hopeful manner.<br />However, as this tale recounts, this is a nearly &quot;Killing Fields&quot; Viet Nam. The perils and tragedies that this family suffers in order to gain their freedom will break your heart, inspire you and challenge you to never believe any formal officially sanctioned version of history, no matter who writes it.<br />There is a family drama at work here as well, and I will not give away the story. You'll find this book impossible to put down. Andrew also has a tremendous sense of humour, which saves and enlightens him as he makes the spiritual journey back to his homeland.<br />My friend believes that this acurately captures the dialectic of being an expatriate, yet still emotionally connected to the land of one's heritage. Whatever your own background, if you have invested any time in uncovering the story of your family, you'll connect with this book immediately. I've purchased this book three times. The first copy has circled the globe once among friends, the second is making its way through my friends and relatives across Canada, and the third is staying with me.<br />Positively, absolutely, this is one of the finest memoirs ever written. This is a classic in world literature. Not since Peter Mathiessen's &quot;The Snow Leopard&quot; have I read a book as profoundly moving as &quot;Catfish and Mandela&quot;.	2003-01-23
US	42863831	R28PPO85D9JFFJ	1556591489	720515496	Spring Essence: The Poetry of H Xun Huong	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Seductive Poetry, but something lost in translation	Ho Xuan Huong was an 18th Century concubine with a very feminist determination to write about the seductive elements of life and in a number of the poems here you'll see why she must have caused quite a stir. Her sexuality simmers just below the surface of these poems, or in some cases, slyly evokes the delights she knows well in analogy. What is at first reading a song about sowing is an admonition to young women to luxuriate in the langour of passion, a kind of Bonnie Raitt take on the joys of gettin' jiggy with it.<BR>One of the interesting elements of the book's production is the presentation on the Viet Namese adaptation of Chinese caligraphy as well as the contemporary Viet Namese lettering, along with the English translation. The foreword is well documented and instructive. My only carp is that as with any translation from an expressive and lyrical language like Viet Namese, something gets lost. It hits you because you get an inkling why Ho Xuan Huong was so controversial, and you'd somehow like to get closer to her to really feel what made her senses reel. I don't speak Viet Namese, so more's the pity in my case.<BR>However, this is well worth exploring, very seductive stuff to share with a lover.	2003-01-13
US	42863831	R14TNVOHQDUGX3	1900924269	590538597	In the Court of King Crimson	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Socrates, PLato and the Cave of King Crimson	Sid Smith has written an absorbing and fascinating linear history of the drive of King Crimson from its dual inception in GG&amp;F and the McDonald-Sinfield partnership through the ConstruKction of Light. While claiming not to be a musicological analysis, his discussions about the music itself take this book far away from the fanzine type of writing in many a band or popstar bio. He is inclusive and thorough in his research and was trusted by present and former members of the court enough for them to present their forthright observations of their service to the king. And in the end, who is the king? It is not Fripp. Fripp is certainly the Prime Minister for the moment, although the heir apparent has presented his credentials. King Crimson is and is not what it is that moves the spirit of all of these earnest young men, many with facial hair and glasses, to commit themselves to the Heideggerian tasks of clearing the ground for Music to take them into its confidence. Even when failure, calamity and heartbreak result, it has come with passion. Each member in each phase has stood up and recognized the shadows on the wall for what they are and elected to make their ways to the source of the light. They have gone out to the garden to greet the Future. Some retreat, some go beyond, some become extraordinary gardiners.<br />There may yet be a musicological analysis, perhaps from Fripp or Bruford or a Lewis Porter, whose remarkable tome on Coltrane quite lucidly shows the structure of the music being very much a part of that ineffable presence Coltrane came face to face with. But in this book, Smith charts the artistic and personal commitments that the King demanded and exacted from its participants.<br />It is quite clear that once he stood up from the rest of the crowd and sensed that there was something else besides the ephemera before him, Fripp's course in life could go only in search of this light. He is by no means a benevolent Yoda, but his heart has always been in the right place, and so in the pursuit of the Ideal, he has wrought a milieu in which only the pure of heart prevail. Parsifal with an axe and a jones for Bartok and Hendrix.<br />However, inasmuch as the King could not have carried on without his dedicated minister, so too Fripp could not have pursued his mission without the remarkable contributions of each and all. There are essential dialectics throughout: with McDonald and Giles, with Bruford and Wetton, with Belew and Gunn and Levin, among others. There are sacrifices and conversions of the soul with Cross and Muir. Locked horns, business failures, dope and disappointment each assault the Court, yet the King and Fripp remain loyal to each other. It is quite a read, and well worth the time to go slowly and mull the contents. My only criticism of the physical book is that it seems no one ran spellcheck or proofread the punctuation.<br />Perhaps you'll draw some conclusions, for whatever conclusions might be worth, such as:<br />1. Drummer who best got along with Fripp: Ian Wallace<br />2. Vocalist who least had a clue what the lyrics were about: Gordon Haskell<br />3. Best pinch hit vocalist: Jon Anderson<br />4. Bassist who hated every minute of Crimson: Boz Burrell<br />5. Drummer who least got along with Fripp: well, that would be telling<br />6. Reed player who seems to rattle Fripp the most: Ian McDonald<br />7. Worst lyricist: Sinfield. After the first record, it all got a bit arch, and Haskell was right.<br />8. Best lyricist: Palmer-James and Belew.<br />9. Perfect foil for the Prime Minister: see number 5.<br />10. Heir apparent: Trey Gunn.<br />At different points in the history of this band, the question has been raised whether or not Crim could be Frippless. Possibly during the Wetton-Bruford-McDonald summit at &quot;RED&quot; time. Now, on the evidence of what is on record, another clearing is about to be becoming. But that's likely another book or two away yet.ight place, and so in the pursuit of the Ideal, he has wrought a milieu in which only the pure of heart prevail. Parsifal with an axe and a jones for Bartok and Hendrix.<BR>However, inasmuch as the King could not have carried on without his dedicated minister, so too Fripp could not have pursued his mission without the remarkable contributions of each and all. There are essential dialectics throughout: with McDonald and Giles, with Bruford and Wetton, with Belew and Gunn and Levin, among others. There are sacrifices and conversions of the soul with Cross and Muir. Locked horns, business failures, dope and disappointment each assault the Court, yet the King and Fripp remain loyal to each other. It is quite a read, and well worth the time to go slowly and mull the contents. My only criticism of the physical book is that it seems no one ran spellcheck or proofread the punctuation.<BR>Perhaps you'll draw some conclusions, for whatever conclusions might be worth, such as:<BR>1. Drummer who best got along with Fripp: Ian Wallace<BR>2. Vocalist who least had a clue what the lyrics were about: Gordon Haskell<BR>3. Best pinch hit vocalist: Jon Anderson<BR>4. Bassist who hated every minute of Crimson: Boz Burrell<BR>5. Drummer who least got along with Fripp: well, that would be telling<BR>6. Reed player who seems to rattle Fripp the most: Ian McDonald<BR>7. Worst lyricist: Sinfield. After the first record, it all got a bit arch, and Haskell was right.<BR>8. Best lyricist: Palmer-James and Belew.<BR>9. Perfect foil for the Prime Minister: see number 5.<BR>10. Heir apparent: Trey Gunn.<br />At different points in the history of this band, the question has been raised whether or not Crim could be Frippless. Possibly during the Wetton-Bruford-McDonald summit at &quot;RED&quot; time. Now, on the evidence of what is on record, another clearing is about to be becoming. But that's likely another book or two away yet.	2002-06-05
