US	42898840	R2BSUZ5OSIFI85	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Superficially Interesting, but Not Particularly Well-Done	Maybe I just don't get it, but this novel didn't do anything for me. The storyline was fairly interesting, but not superb. The characters were well-developed: overdeveloped, even, in that Rice repeated their flaws. Reading, I felt as if I was being continuously bludgeoened with heavy-handed grandiose drippings of love and eternity and loneliness. This context was set tens of times throughout the novel, rather than - as I would have found preferential - set once, with the plot/storyline to develop off of it.<br /><br />It seems as if the human population is decisively split between Rice fans, and Rice haters. Her writing can be tedious, at times, but is never difficult to read. About half-way through, one will feel inclined to seriously question as to whether any aspects of the book will  change, or if the characters - at this point, Louis and Claudia - will simply continue on their well-worn path of searching for other Vampires and endless self-speculation and introspection.<br /><br />This book is not without its merits: It deals with a fascinating subject matter that has romanticised mythology and spawned a film and novel genre. However, in all, I found this novel lackluster and overall uninteresting. Interview with the Vampire is worth reading if only for its place in the 'horror' canon, but not for the actual quality of the work. It exists as the seminal piece of fiction within this genre, however I may disagree with that, it should be acknowledged as such.	2005-02-04
US	42898840	R3Q6IOIGC0561N	0553283707	380452150	The City, Not Long After	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Powerful, if a bit cliched -	I first stumbled upon this book some seven-odd years ago, when I was just moving into the beginnings of a proverbial intellectual 'awakening.' I spent perhaps four months tracking it down, as it was out of print and not carried at my library; read it at least a half-dozen times while it was in my posession, and only begrudgingly gave it up when the time was due (though it was rather tempting to keep and fess up the library fine).<br /><br />In hindsight, this book is idealistic in nature: It is a peaceful, love-beaded dystopian novel with more than its share of hope. It tells the story of a community of citizens who have migrated to San Francisco, in an event to both continue with their crafts (There are painters, sculpters, just plain tinkerers). They also attempt to organise themselves against the \\"General,\\" a militaristic dictator-esque figure moving across America.<br /><br />This settlement comes in the wake of an outbreak of plague, as a result of an altruistic attempt to bring peace to the world, and to the United States.<br /><br />Although a children's book, this novel still stands out in my mind as being one of the most powerful books I have ever read. Rarely do a book's details stay with one for the better part of ten years, in the clarity that this one has. Well-worth tracking down, or buying used.	2005-02-01
US	42898840	R27BL3VU88S0VY	0684822709	522258161	Man and Microbes: Disease and Plagues in History and Modern Times	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Great Intro, But Lacking in the Details -	First and foremost, this book is an oustanding, fantastic introduction to the world of infectious diseases. Because of two factors, however, much informatoin is lost. Firstly, the book is rather short - hardly three hundred pages. Secondly, there are thousands of years to cover in such a volume. As a result, the reader is left with a superficial - albeit insightful - look at the history of diseases throughout history.<br /><br />Karlen attempts - and succeeds, as best as expected - to do three things in this book. He begins by discussing the disease, or outbreak, at hand. Syphilis, tuberculosis, legionnaire's, marberg, ebola are all covered - en brief. Then, he goes on to elaborate on the social climate of the time, to set a context for the reader. He then discusses the impact that these diseases had on thepopulace.<br /><br />As a personal fiend of specific, explicit writings on the physiological results of diseases, I was somewhat disappointed: AIDs is hardly discussed, and the physical descriptions and onsets are scant, if existant. However, Karlen's adept critical thinking  - he analyzes the social impact, etc of each outbreak -  makes this book worthwhile.<br /><br />Overall, a good introduction. I kept notes through this book on topics that I was interested in exploring further, and was not disappointed.	2005-01-27
US	42898840	R2FKU549O68KW	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	13	18	N	N	Captivating and Wholly Intriguing	Firstly, it's wholly incorrect to compare this book to The Da Vinci Code. They are similar only in the respect that they have to do with 'myterious' codes hidden in ancient texts. That aside, the similarities end. The Rule of Four is far more cerebral: Unless one is well-read and receptive to intertextuality, the whole beauty of this book will be lost to them. It is not a book which will be received by the masses in the same way as The Da Vinci Code, either - it steps far past what many people know and appreciate. In other words: If the Da Vinci Code was silver, The Rule of Four would be platinum.<br />This book centers around a group of four students at Princeton who are finishing their last year of studies. While Caldwell and Thomason can be cumbersome to read, their writing is generally very good. They are not terse with their style, nor do they carry on. The plot is, indeed, complex, but they do an excellent job of weaving together the various characters and circumstances. It would be more accurate to compare this book to &quot;The Secret History&quot; by Donna Tartt than to the Da Vinci Code -- though even that comparison is rather flimsy.<br />I found the ending to be wholly on par with the rest of the book: It left a mysterious taste in my mouth, and ended well. The characters were well developed with their own flaws and strengths. What I found most captivating about this book was that every character was someone who reminded me of a person in my own life: The dynamics between the four friends (Paul, Tom, Gil and Charlie) were all believable for precisely this reason.<br />This book is not a thoughtless read: It requires attention to detail. There were many occasions in which I had to go back and re-read a segment in order to ensure I'd understand the plot progression. However, this was a truly intriguing, captivating book. Ian Caldwell and Dustin Thomason did a superb job.	2004-06-29
US	42898840	R3LTTH0J0U3QTN	0060094109	922757471	Air Battle Force	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Military Drudgery in the [Tarnished] Name of Clancy...	Dale Brown can't decide what he wants to do: Either be a military writer, or be a fiction writer. Frankly, in both arenas, he fails. Quite miserably. There is virtually no plot development in this book, and the endless drudgery of military and technological description becomes mind-numbing, even to the most adherent military fiction fans. His writing is far from fluid, rather he utilises a blocky, counter-intuitive way to write, which makes this book doubly hard to get through.<br />He attempts to formulate some sort of character development between Daren and Rebecca Furness, both characters in this novel. Rather than adding dimension, however, it merely makes the characters even more cardboard-y: All Brown seems good at is describing missiles and aeroplane fuselage. Which is fine, if you're writing a military guide. And not so fine if you're writing fiction.<br />The premise of the story is simple enough: Taliban fighters are invading Turkmenistan. In the great name of Clancy, Brown can't help but to throw in some malevolent Russian forces to take a low jab at our Gulagian friends. Additionally, he throws a General (P. McLanahan) into the mix, a General who has faced his share of trials and tribulations, as well as military drama. Finally, there is a political twist: There are two candidates running for presidential office of the United States.<br />Truth be told, though, after five hundred+ pages of this book, and upon its finishing, I couldn't help but ask: What, exactly, happened? One never finds out the outcome of the political race, you don't quite find out what happens to any of the characters besides in their military circumstances...The characters accesorize the guns, rather than vice-versa.<br />It seems that Brown tries to do too many things at once, and as a result, doesn't even marginally succeed at any of them. I bought this book as a 'beach read' and figured I'd blow through it in about three days. Wrongo. It took me upwards of two weeks to finally finish it. The novel drags its feet in all the wrong places, and doesn't have any real plot development. I'm *not* looking for a literary masterpiece in the name of &quot;The Red Badge of Courage,&quot; I was simply looking for an entertaining read.<br />Not really worth your time, unless you like to read an aircraft manual thinley veiled with what seem to be the threads of a plot line.nish it. The novel drags its feet in all the wrong places, and doesn't have any real plot development. I'm *not* looking for a literary masterpiece in the name of &quot;The Red Badge of Courage,&quot; I was simply looking for an entertaining read. <br />Not really worth your time, unless you like to read an aircraft manual thinley veiled with what seem to be the threads of a plot line.	2004-06-06
US	42898840	R39C2B3HIV6QTR	0380703882	948818246	Communion: A True Story	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Interesting, Questionable, and ....Believable?	It is important to go into this book with an open mind.<br />For me, the entire premise seems to exist outside of the realm of fiction and nonfiction, as both of these genres connate a certain type of book. Communion is neither. It is to be read and absorbed, not analysed or debated for its veracity. The premise of the story, for me, exists outside of what is &quot;true&quot; and what is not.<br />Rather than being a story about an alien abduction, it is much more about Strieber's own journey of realisation, discovery, and healing. The reviewers who say that this book frightened them, I can see why: The first fifty pages or so are fairly frightening. However, the other threehundred-odd pages deal with Strieber's grappling with how to heal himself, how to deal with what he had perceived to have happened.<br />It is important to read this book not as a science fiction or science fact book, but rather as a man's struggle to heal. I found some parts of this book to be slow and occasionally confusing. Additionally, Strieber's writing can be difficult to follow and repetitive. Finally, he tends to get a bit too &quot;new-agey&quot; for me at points. Despite this, however, you cannot help but to feel the resurgance of hope, the renewed faith and tenacity which he experiences with his facing of the unknown.<br />This book is not meant to be frightening, it is meant to be a testament to inner strength.	2004-05-25
US	42898840	R15OI8DNQUSXAV	0425183831	821461228	Conspiracies and Cover-Ups	Books	2	21	33	N	N	Mediocre At Best, Drags Its Feet...So-So For the Beginner	I am somewhat of a conspiracy moderate. I have been interested in the 'speculative' for some ten-odd years now, however it has come in spurts. A year here, six months there, a week here, two weeks there. In the past month, I have literally submerged myself into the world of conspiracy literature.<br />Truth be told, this is one of the poorest examples of how truly fascinating, interesting, and core-shaking conspiracy writing can be. Alexander gives very superficial introductions to about ten topics, ranging from American POWs to Weaponry and Alien Beings. This book contains very little real information; instead, it is a string-together of Alexander's own attempts to be witty and ranting diatribes about the plight of humanity.<br />It was a general struggle to get through this book. The writing is stiff and awkward, and essentially substanceless. Alexander tries to write about so many things that he winds up only touching on the surface of all of them. He writes vaguely and seems to leave out rather large pieces of information.<br />If you've never read anything even remotely related to conspiracy theory, then this would be a good book to test the proverbial waters with. However, truth be told, most people who are interested in conspiracy literature will already know most everything in this book and will find the writing style and slow pace quite boring.	2004-05-25
US	42898840	R1F4TPWW36WBYT	0671027387	315416156	Deception Point	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Cheap, Easy (Conspiratorial) Read	Excellent beach book. Not exactly the intellectual thriller equivalent of Dickens, but overall, a worthy effort.<br />Brown's story here is that NASA - and two mud-slinging political opponants - are involved in a complex plot of (you guessed it!)...deception. NASA has \\"found\\" something in the ice at one of the poles, and is using this discovery to help swing the polls in time for an election. Needless to say, this is a superb book for anyone who enjoys reading about conspiracies; this seems to contain the ultimate governmental conspiracy.<br />Is it far fetched? Yes. But forseeable, as well.<br />In my mind, this is what makes Brown such an excellent \\"suspense\\" writer: He takes the utterly feasible and transmorgifies it into something which, albeit far-fetched, is still probable.<br />While the story twists and turns innumerous times, it is still easy to follow. Rachel Sexton is a convincing character, and while she remains - along with the rest of the characters - only superficially developed, it's not much of a problem. This novel doesn't exactly pack a mental punch.<br />While reading it, it seemed interesing and held my attention well enough: I finished this in about five days. The story was fast paced and everything was explained fairly well. Like the other Brown book I've read, \\"Angels and Demons,\\" the ending had something to be desired: It seemed like Rachel and Michael fell out of character too far for me to believe the ending. Looking back, the characters seem blocky and superficial (definitely the latter), the dialogue is forced...<br />Truth is, Brown isn't such a good writer, but he sure as shoot knows how to craft an excellent story. If you can get past the mechanics and 'flow' problems, this is an excellent book to just kick back and read: It is easy to read and doesn't condescend the reader, unlike many techno-thrillers of the day.	2004-05-25
US	42898840	RBII21SV828W8	0380730391	573724669	Golden Apples of the Sun, The	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Strong Collection, but Not Extraordinary	I've read mostly all of Bradbury's lengthier fiction repretoire, and have only begun dipping into his collections of short stories. As a writer during the &quot;Golden Age&quot; of science fiction, Bradbury is unsurpassed: All at once, he manages to show the reader a future of hope, of surprise and of brightness. His writing style is simple and terse, and it takes some time to get used to the cadance with which he writes.<br />One of the aspects I've always appreciated about Bradbury's writing is that his stories extend beyond the &quot;science fiction&quot; genre. Encapsulated within the SF exterior, Bradbury manages to capture portraits of humanity - throughout all of his stories, it is apparent that he prescribes to the idea that the more things change, the more they stay the same. Thus, while he writes about space travel and other fantastical subjects, he retains a sense of humanity which transcends the differences in environment.<br />Without a doubt, my favorite story in this anthology is &quot;R is for Rocket.&quot; This story alone is worth buying the book for...I am enraptured with the way Bradbury tells of the carefree summers the boys enjoy, and then juxtapose it to the pressure of a career in space exploration.<br />Generally, I find Bradbury's fantasy to be somewhat boring (though this can also be attributed to my lack of enthusiasm for fantasy as a whole). Don't let this faze you - this is a very strong collection, and excellent introduction, to Bradbury's short story abilities. About 90% of the stories in this book are really excellent..But the other 10% almost seem like simple writing exercises and are no way indicative of Bradbury's true talants as a writer.	2004-04-18
US	42898840	R1TUF9PPLF1T4H	0804111359	207158162	The Secret History	Books	5	3	5	N	N	One of the most captivating books I have ever read...	Donna Tartt's &quot;The Secret History&quot; first beckoned me from a bookshelf some two years ago. I did not read it, however, until three months ago - and in this instance, I finished it in only a weekend. This book follows the main character, Richard, throughout his stay at Hampden College (a thinly veiled characterization of a certain upper-class private Vermont college). There, he begins his immersion in a selective Greek studies course, along with four other students.<br />Many other reviewers complained of the &quot;psuedointellectualism&quot; contained within the pages, however I felt quite differently: It was excellent to finally read a book which utilised many different facets of literature in order to tell a story. On the surface, &quot;The Secret History&quot; is an excellent, excellent story: It is a mystery and a suspense book which captivates the reader right from the start.<br />However, the intertextuality of the book is really what seperates it from, say Dean Koontz or any other &quot;suspense&quot; writer. In fact, it's difficult to catogorise this book as any genre; it is as easily a coming-of-age story as it is a thriller. Needless to say, it held my attention. Some readers may feel alienated by the constant references to Greek history or philosophies; for me, this added to the appeal of the book - it was fascinating to see Euripides' Bacchae woven into a plot line.<br />I found the ending of the book to be slightly stretched and boring, but the absolute end had me enthralled. Throughout the book, without realising it, I had become taken with all of the characters - their lives, their dispositions...Though trite, it was as if I literally _knew_ them: Thus, the climax came as both a surprise and a tragedy. Additionally, any familiarity with the Greek concept of tragedy will see this shine through in the book's plot: Again, a neat aspect of Tartt's storycrafting.<br />I can't help but to wax enthusiastic about &quot;The Secret History&quot;: All of the characters are well-crafted, coming across as dimensioned, personable figures. Tartt is able to convey the mood of the seventies Hampden College, and also the circumstances of the characters. Without a doubt, The Secret History is one of the most interesting, captivating books I have ever read: Tartt manages to pull the reader in effortlessly, and keep the reader entranced.of the characters are well-crafted, coming across as dimensioned, personable figures. Tartt is able to convey the mood of the seventies Hampden College, and also the circumstances of the characters. Without a doubt, The Secret History is one of the most interesting, captivating books I have ever read: Tartt manages to pull the reader in effortlessly, and keep the reader entranced.	2004-04-18
US	42898840	R3UXC4VAHDWC1T	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Thought Provoking, Though Occasionally Dumbed-Down	Firstly, I listen to Mr. Hannity's radio show nearly every afternoon. I find him to be an articulate voice of American conservatism, and I respect him immensely for his resolution and convcition. That said, his book absolutely does not measure up to his abilities as a radio host: This book is occasionally repetative and short sighted. Overall, however, Hannity does an excellent job of portraying to the reader exactly _what_ threatens America, as it stands today.<br />It seems that a lot of people get all over Hannity like a cheap suit on a hot day for his arguments: They say he's too simplistic, that he boils 'complex' issues down far too much. However, it seems to me that most of these people, were they to read this without knowing Hannity as a conservative would acknowledge, if not agree, with many of the points he makes.<br />In Hannity's mind, there is an excessive \\"politicization\\" of moral standards. As \\"Deliver Us From Evil\\" articulates, there are circumstances and situations in which totally, wholly unjustifiable evil exists. That is, there is no excuse for some actions -- for instance, onlookers urging a suicidal woman to jump to her death from a bridge. It is here that Hannity argues that many people are slowing down and impeding progress - economically, socially, and internationally -- by their perpetual filibusting: These are people who must debate every minute detail.<br />Another issue Hannity raises is the responsibility - or, more accurately, lack of - in the American populace. Transgressions are justified by prior experiences: Sexual molesters rationalize their atrocities by claiming they themselves were molested; criminals plead not guilty, saying their crimes are the result of their envinronment. Hell, people sue fast food chains becuase they are obese -- ALL are instances of the growing inability for Americans to take responsibility for their own actions.<br />It is refreshing to read a book which does not constantly nitpick the president, America as a whole, nor point out the seemingly endless \\"flaws\\" in the country. Rather, Hannity focuses on the positive, and demonstrates to the reader how our country can be even greater were certain issues dealt with head on, and swiftly. \\"Deliver Us From Evil\\" successfully manages to both portray Hannity's views, and real circumstances, in a method which is meant to instigate thought in the reader. There is no condescension to the public, nor is there any fire and brimstone talk about the horrors of liberals: It seems to be that the liberalism in the title is not the liberal beliefs themselves, but rather, liberal actions.<br />\\"Deliver Us From Evil\\" is not a remarkable, must-have book. However, it is a strong, compassionate examination of our nation. Hannity is easy to read and generally simplified, though his underlying messages are powerful. This book does not hold a candle to his radio show, nor his live speeches - though it does serve as a strong perspective of the world today.rica as a whole, nor point out the seemingly endless \\"flaws\\" in the country. Rather, Hannity focuses on the positive, and demonstrates to the reader how our country can be even greater were certain issues dealt with head on, and swiftly. \\"Deliver Us From Evil\\" successfully manages to both portray Hannity's views, and real circumstances, in a method which is meant to instigate thought in the reader. There is no condescension to the public, nor is there any fire and brimstone talk about the horrors of liberals: It seems to be that the liberalism in the title is not the liberal beliefs themselves, but rather, liberal actions.  <br />\\"Deliver Us From Evil\\" is not a remarkable, must-have book. However, it is a strong, compassionate examination of our nation. Hannity is easy to read and generally simplified, though his underlying messages are powerful. This book does not hold a candle to his radio show, nor his live speeches - though it does serve as a strong perspective of the world today.	2004-04-07
US	42898840	RIEYXHJZM3QW0	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very Scary....Definitely Worth It	The Haunting of Hill House, by Shirley Jackson, may very well be the most frightening book I have ever read. Flat out, period. The mere basis of this book is somewhat cliche, by today's standards: Four adults are conducting an &quot;experiment&quot; on Hill House's supposed hauntings. Occasionally the characters seem stiff and mechanical, some of the dialogue is forced...The entire premise of the book is generally hard to believe...<br />Despite these caveats, though, this book is still scary. For best effect, I recommend reading it very late at night, in an absolutely silent house. Just wait.<br />What makes this book so &quot;scary&quot; is that each character relates to their fears in their own way. One part of the book which still gives me the shivers is when Eleanor and Theodora, the two female protagonists, are in Theodora's room. Eleanor keeps hearing thumps and patters on the wall, while Theodora does not acknowledge anything out of the ordinary. These events only affect Eleanor. Each character is alone with their fears -- rather than all four of them experiencing something &quot;haunting,&quot; each character experiences something individual.<br />Thus, each character is also alone in their fears; their fears are essentially doubled: They fear what they hear or experience, and then also fear they are losing their mental stabilty, as no one else experiences the events. The psychological scariness of this book is what sets it apart from the typical &quot;slash and gore&quot; horror novel: This book is, really, in a genre all its own.	2004-03-30
US	42898840	RBY0F6G46O10V	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	3	79	102	N	N	Not Vonnegut's Best	Kurt Vonnegut is an author whom I became intimately familiar with for a few years. I read, literally, every single work of fiction that he has had published, and generally enjoyed them, as well. However, it seems that Vonnegut is also the type of author that one outgrows: I re-read Slaughterhouse Five in its entirety some two months ago, and have not been more frustrated (and tired) by a book in quite a while. The biggest issue with Vonnegut is, no matter what else is to be said: He is formulaic. After a while, all of his stories bleed together, his cynicism is tiresome, and his misanthropy becomes cliche.<br />Period.<br />Slaughterhouse Five is often hailed as Vonnegut's piece de resistane, though I sincerely doubt it was written as such. It deals primarily with a man, Billy Pilgrim, who continually experiences changes and &quot;jumps&quot; in time: He does not experience a linear sense of time. Pilgrim fought in World War II, and is subsequently kidnapped by Trafalmadorians, an alien race who also do not experience linear time.<br />This book has been championed as an anti-war novel, though to be honest, I never quite saw this. Does Vonnegut speak down on war? Most assuredly. But I think this book extends far, far past simply being an anti-war novel: In fact, I think the theme of &quot;anti-war&quot; is perhaps the one theme which is least prominant in the book.<br />Truth be told, perhaps to others the literary merits of this novel shine through, but I personally believe there are far more intriguing, thought provoking, and funny books by Vonnegut out there. Mother Night and The Sirens of Titan, to name two. Slaughterhouse Five is worth reading for its supposed literary merit, but it seems to me that it is a sophomoric work of Vonnegut's: Its ideas are there, and they are far, far below the surface.	2004-03-26
US	42898840	R2XNE7L9E7JSIL	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	Excellent Intro to Rand	The Fountainhead has, in one way or another, generally found its way into the hands of must [psuedo]intellectuals. While many people have qualms about the &quot;philosophy&quot; of objectivism, The Fountainhead is a shining example of Rand's &quot;real-world&quot; (albeit fictionalized) philosophy in action.<br />The protagonist and center of the story is Howard Roark, an architecht. Throughout his career, he refuses to compromise his own integrity, creativity, or desires under the will of others. Such is the ideal of Rand, who, in objectivism, champions logic over emotion, rationality over irrationality. Roark embodies these traits, and as a result, is met with either applaud or with sneers. This book is many things to many people: To some, Roark is an uncompromising fool, a weak man. To others, (myself included), Roark is a pillar of strength and the definition of, quite literally, what it means to be a man.<br />The Fountainhead, much like most of Rand's fiction (that is, Atlas Shrugged) is also an exercise in patience. While Rand's underlying ideas are most assuredly worth the time it takes to get through them (her tomes tend to stretch from 600 - 1000 pagse). This is, to be frank, the largest drawback to this book - a drawback severe enough to merit the dreaded four stars instead of five. Rand could have convincingly boiled down The Fountainhead to about one third of its original size. For whatever reason unbeknownst to me, she most evidently did not -- hence, you have either a remarkable testament to the triumph of man, or a doorstop.<br />Your choice.<br />If you are looking for a &quot;cheap and easy&quot; way to introduce yourself to Objectivism, then I suggest you look at the ARI's webpage or the various volumes on just objectivism. However, the most important service The Fountainhead provides is as an example of objectivism: It is the humanity of the story, which supports objectivism, which has the ability to convince a reader of the merits of objectivism. The intellectual searching for something to chew on will happily find it nestled in the pages of The Fountainhead.. The intellectual searching for something to chew on will happily find it nestled in the pages of The Fountainhead.	2004-03-26
US	42898840	RD4T94YBFN5LO	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Solid, but Not Remarkable	Firstly, this is the only book by Don DeLillo that I have ever read, so I am unable to compare it to his other works (re Libra, Mao, The Underworld.) That said, I found this book all at once, captivating, frustrating, intriguing and dull. DeLillo is able to spend some twohundred+ pages writing, without ever really saying anything: I found myself at the end, wondering \\"what was that?\\"<br />This novel centers around the head of a Hitler Studies' department in the mid-1970s. Of all of the characters, I found his son, Heinreich, to be the most interesting. With the exception of the narrator, no one is presented with much depth and there was no defineable \\"plot.\\" Maybe to the artsy folks, that's just another way for any author to be \\"deep,\\" but I just found it boring and useless.<br />White Noise is divided into two sections. The first section serves the primary purpose of introducing the reader to the family, the surroundings, the town. There is an all-encompassinmg anonymity to the town in which this takes place, which I interpreted as DeLillo's attempt to make the entire cirumcstnace of the novel to be believable whether it were in Maine, Montana, or California. The second section tells of the family's \\"escape\\" from a large, dark cloud looming, a supposed toxic waste reaction. Really.<br />Overall, this book is interesting, and DeLillo is funny - he manages to portray the quirks of family home life convincingly, and his offbeat general \\"oddness\\" makes for an interesting, if superficial, read. I don't precisely see this as a literary staple, but it is occasionally interesting nonetheless.	2004-03-26
US	42898840	R2HNVRVNIG1QV2	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Neat, but Formulaic	Dan Brown manages to make the esoteric approachable in &quot;Angels and Demons.&quot; This novel (which I blew through in about two days) covers Robert Langden's first &quot;adventure&quot;: His attempt to thwart the Illuminati's killing of the Vatican's Cardinals during the choosing of the new Pope. Needless to say, this book essentially devoured my soul.<br />While I was immersed in this novel, I was absolutely intrigued: Granted, it plays quite heavily off of the paranoic ramblings of many other books (notably, The Illuminatus! Trilogy), it still manages to keep the topics of the Illuminati and the Catholic Church approachable and interesting. Brown weaves together a convincing (albeit far-fetched) plot line. The ending, for me, had something to be desired -- but, c'est la vie. Brown's character devlopment is excellent, Langden is captivating and human (although occasionally a bit pithy for me).<br />Looking back, however, I find this book horrifically formulaic. Nothing seems to fit together as well as it did while I was reading it, though this is probably a mark of a convincing author. It was an easy book to be consumed by, and for a few days I couldn't stop flipping pages. Of course, the entire plot centers around what seem to be an innumerable number of circumstances (that is, Why would CERN call Langden? Why would Langden give in? ...etc)<br />The mysticism in this book is absolutely fascinating. However true - or untrue - Brown's discussion of the Illuminati may be, it was interesting to read about the path of enlightenment through Rome. Additionally, I found it extra-neat for Brown to include a map of the Vatican and of the surrounding area, thus making the locations in this book non-fiction, while fictionalizing events.<br />Really neat.<br />For it's purpose (that is, a cheap/easy weekend read), Angels and Demons did very well. It held my attention and brought together suspense and religious conspiracy, some twinges of romance (perhaps for the female crowd?) and general flamboyance that often makes books best sellers. Is this the next American classic? No. But it certainly was entertaining, and an excellent break for something easy to read.owd?) and general flamboyance that often makes books best sellers. Is this the next American classic? No. But it certainly was entertaining, and an excellent break for something easy to read.	2004-03-26
US	42898840	R1JVWF8FS2C37C	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An Exercise in the Power of Man	Firstly, let me preface this review by saying that I am wholly stricken with Ayn Rand's objectivist philosophy. However, I do not believe -- like all authors -- that everything a particular writer, no matter how much I may like them, turns every piece of writing they have into a masterpiece. Anthem is a primary example of a brilliant thinker simply slipping below the impossibly high bar that they've already set for themselves.<br />Anthem can be taken in two ways. Firstly, it is the story of a man who - in a coloney - discovers that, rather than serving one specific purposes in the hive, that he has the power to be an individual. This is the literal translation of this text. However, it is incredibly important to look at Anthem as more than simply a story of self-recognition.<br />Rightly or wrongly, Anthem is one eight-eight page pithy story of the power of man as an individual. Is this symbolism evident? Yes - it's about as obvious as it can possibly be made. Of course, I found this frustrating, hoping that Rand would make her agenda slightly less blaringly obvious. However, this book is meant to spell out to the reader the theory of objectivism (such as most of Rand's books are). It seems to me that rather than leaving the reader with a chunk of literature to digest, Rand instead lays out a flowchart of what the reader should be internalizing. Good if you don't want to spend the energy to think, not so good if you enjoy the merits of more &quot;gray&quot; literature (re rather than black and white).<br />Overall, a strong showing of Rand's abilities as a writer, if not a little stiff. This is worth reading, most assuredly -- It's just not one of her best books. It is a good introduction to the objectivist philosphy, even if it is not &quot;displayed&quot; as such. A worthy effort, but does have fundamental flaws.	2004-03-26
US	42898840	R2XIKDBLR7MNTP	0316183091	500106550	Atom: A Single Oxygen Atom's Journey from the Big Bang to Life on Earth...and Beyond	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Excellent Premise, Poor Execution	I must first and foremost give Mr. Krauss his respects: This is one of the most factual, scientifically enlightening books on the microcosmos of atoms that I have ever read. However, I suppose my outward praise ends there. The premise of \\"Atom\\" is refreshingly interesting: The history of the universe told, so to speak, from the perspective of of a singular Oxygen atom. However, the execution of such a potentially interesting topic is slagged down by Krauss' seeming ability to make even the exciting uninteresting.<br />Unfortunately, this soporific wonder seems to become so caught up in inundating the reader with facts and statistics (and seemingly never-ending description) that it loses all enthusiasm. It took me a few tries to finally get through this entire book. Unless one is interested in the depth and breadth of the information covered in this book (from linear accelerators such as CERN to the Japanese detection of nanoparticles in gigantic underground caverns), this book will be totally uninteresting. Probably the most painful aspect of reading this book is the knowledge that this could have been a truly remarkable book, instead of a writing for a niche market.<br />This book does not require an extensive background in science, nor does it play off the reader's intelligence. Krauss sets the stage for a romp through the atomic cosmos, leading the reader through the journeys of an Oxyten atom. It is overall interesting and enlightening, but only providing the reader has an underlying knowledge in the subject at hand.<br />If you are truly interested in atomics, then this book is for you: Really. But if it is just a passing phase, then it's best to leave this one be -- it is not a story so much as a stringing together of facts and analysis: Excellent for the atom afficionado, not so excellent for the atom amateur.	2004-03-24
US	42898840	R14BPETJXKQL6G	0425181642	894540459	E=mc2: A Biography of the World's Most Famous Equation	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Theory of Relativity	So, Einstein, you think you know everything, huh? (Then you should sit in on my physics class, because we could use someone who knows what's going on.) But enough joking...Unlike most perceptions of scientific writing, Bodanis tackles a fascinating topic with vigor, interest, and enthusiasm: It shows. This is perhaps the most suitable starting-off point -- or even for a seasoned physics verteran -- to learn about the progression of science, leading up to (and including) the &quot;world's most famous equation.&quot;<br />I read this book before taking any physics courses, and before taking an intermediate chemistry course. In other words, I had literally no science background to speak of, other than a few high school courses and my own interest. I received this book as a gift, and was immediately enthralled. Needless to say, this is one of the few books that has joined the ranks of being re-read a few times.<br />Bodanis, in this book, follows the progression of what eventually leads Einstein to develop his special theory of relativity, or - as us plebians may know it - E = MC ^ 2. Rather than dwelling on this equation itself, Bodanis instead takes the readers through the history leading up to (and including) this equation. He discusses the scientific work of Lavoisier, Voltaire, and other scientists throughout the scientific englightenment, throwing in clever anectdotes and genuine scientific information. Bodanis includes the relevant information -- relaying to the reader how, exactly, each scientific finding influenced Einstein's later discoveries. However, this is all done without being stodgy or boring -- there is the proper amount of wit and enthusiasm, making this a most enjoyable read.<br />The other aspect of this book which I enjoyed immensely was the articulation of world events, however superficially. When Einstein had developed his theory of relativity, and was teaching in Germany and Austria, he eventually fled. Bodanis does not ignore the importance of the German scientist exodus during World War II. He ties together loose ends, and makes this book into more than just an equation: He shows how the scientific community was impacted, and the scenario that built up to the development of the theory of relativity.<br />All said, this is an exciting romp through something which is generally, er...not seen as so exciting. For those interested in scientific history, fact, theory, or even science's impact on the world -- this book is sure to be enjoyed. There is an incredibly broad reader base that will enjoy this book.the German scientist exodus during World War II. He ties together loose ends, and makes this book into more than just an equation: He shows how the scientific community was impacted, and the scenario that built up to the development of the theory of relativity.<br />All said, this is an exciting romp through something which is generally, er...not seen as so exciting. For those interested in scientific history, fact, theory, or even science's impact on the world -- this book is sure to be enjoyed. There is an incredibly broad reader base that will enjoy this book.	2004-03-22
US	42898840	R2ML65XMA4J71G	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent, Thought-Provoking, and a Bit Spooky	Regardless of what other reviewers have written, I believe this book to be a haunting work of art. Bradbury manages, through dozens of short vignettes, to tell the story of how mankind came to inhabit the Martian landscape. The idea that Bradbury imparted his own social agenda on this book is claptrap: He wrote with the beauty and elegance that is exclusive to him, and wove together a story from many different threads. He tells of the first voyages to Mars - and their subsequent failures - to the extinction of the Martian people.<br />While the book's premise - and even summary - comes across as nothing more than formulaic science fiction, Bradbury manages to stretch it to much more than that. This book is evenly paced and well-written. It is imperative that one recognises that this book is meant to transcend the circumstance at hand: Bradbury arguably wrote this book to represent the tie that mankind to Earth, rather than to just express the ventures of humanity to the stars.<br />Contrary to what many reviewers seem to have said, I don't see this book as being misanthropic or critical of humanity. Rather, it seems that Bradbury portrays humanity positively: He shows that mankind is always striving for something more, to go farther, to be better, faster, stronger, and more attune to their surroundings. And, he also shows how no matter things may change for mankind, we have a primative, yearning nature to return to the place that bore us: The Earth.<br />Without a doubt, this is one of my favorite books of all-time. I still find it to be crafted in a way which rings true of the Golden age of science fiction: It doesn't get bogged down in misanthropy or cynicism. Rather, it finds the silver lining - a sort of resounding feeling of hope eminates from this book. Wholeheartedly, I applaud not only the story, but Bradbury's magnificant ability to tell a story, an ability which seems to have been lost in most contemporary writing.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R3PMKTXBG8KOEV	1888363363	656698601	Bloodchild and other Stories	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One  of the Freshest Voices in [Science] Fiction	Octavia Butler is one of the most talented, creative contemporary writers. &quot;Bloodchild&quot; is a collection of eight short stories, which essentially span from futuristic dystopias, to parasitic alien races, to strange diseases. While in theory these concepts may be dated and arguably cliche, she writes so fluidly and in such a skilled manner that, litearlly, every word she pens is unique and original.<br />Butler is still a relatively new voice in the world of writing. Rightly or wrongly, she is catogorised at science fiction, a genre which tends to tie up the loose literary ends of writers who don't exactly fit into any definite species. While at their barest what she writes about is science fiction, she inundates her writing with an artistically humane quality: Moreso than just writing about the ooh's and aah's of science, she writes about the complexities and values of humanity. Her writing is evenly paced, without being drawn out - she does not feed into flashy or gimmicky story lines, but rather baits the reader with beautiful (though not overly wordy) descriptions and portrayals of characters.<br />&quot;Bloodchild,&quot; the opening story, tells of a young adult who is to undergo a &quot;rite of passage,&quot; so to speak. In this story, an alien race is symbiotically related to humans: They provide comfort, warmth, and assistance. In exchange, humans house the eggs of these creatures, undergoing a horrendously painful &quot;hatching&quot; prcoess that does not kill them, but leaves them with horrific memories of pain. Butler tells this short story with first person narrative, imparting a sense of emotion and realism that could never be experienced outside of her authorship.<br />Despite her stylistic flow, Butler still manages to keep what she writes interesting. She tackles each story, however seemingly tired the concept may be, with a refreshing tone. She is able to deftly craft a story with as few brush strokes as possible, but still leave a dazzling landscape.<br />Bloodchild is definitely one of the most marvelous, beautiful workds of fiction that I have read in recent times. It is science fiction without ever being scientific, fiction without ever being imagined. Butler is talanted and creative, and undoubtedly one of the best contemporary writers I have encountered.ing landscape. <br />Bloodchild is definitely one of the most marvelous, beautiful workds of fiction that I have read in recent times. It is science fiction without ever being scientific, fiction without ever being imagined. Butler is talanted and creative, and undoubtedly one of the best contemporary writers I have encountered.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R3ATAI6DWV8ZKL	0486289125	745130256	Nordic Gods and Heroes	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Excellent introduction	This book was purchased with the intent to serve as an introduction to, of course, Nordic Gods and Heroes. This book introduces one to the Gods of Norse mythology, and tells the stories of the land of the Giants, Gods, Dwarves, and Men. Colum, using simple language and timeless storytelling, does a superiour job with this.<br />There are four parts to this book, each part containing 8 - 12 stories about the Gods. Each story is about ten pages long, and focuses upon the actions (and re-actions) of a God to certain situations. Throughout the book, various Gods keep appearing, and each lives up to their persona. For instance, Loki, who is the god of mischief and cunning, appears throughout the book as outsmarting other Gods and attempting to fix the problems he has caused.<br />This book was written (according to the copyright) in the early part of the 20th century. Despite its age, though, the stories remain readable and easy to understand. Colum's language is, at times, archaic and occasionally confusing, but overall clear. Colum adequately - even surpassing expectation - bridges the gap between modern readers and the ancient mythology of the Nordic cultures adroitly.<br />Without a doubt, this is the singularly most useful (and thorough) introduction to Nordic mythology.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R2ETRET16TIJTI	1879706709	563195309	The Quickening: Today's Trends, Tomorrow's World	Books	1	49	64	N	N	Absolutely Horrific	Let's begin. I listen to Art Bell, I have listened to Art Bell, and -- when he is on the air -- I will continue to listen to Art Bell. He is unsurpassed in radio, his talk show (Coast to Coast AM) is one of the most interesting shows on the air. Unfortuately, he has &quot;retired&quot; and subsequently been replaced by George Noory -- but Bell himself also continues to host the weekend editions of the show, and occasionally subs in for Noory.<br />That said, this book is truly horrendous. I can't help but get the impression that Bell wrote this as an attempt to break into the world of current events. Except minus the current. Oh yeah - and minus the events, too. As if his radio success would deem him capable of catering to the more discrimiating readers of books - those of us who are able to string syllables together, rather than just twist a radio dial.<br />(No offense intended.)<br />Rather than coming off as an informed, thoughtful global analyst, Bell manages to sound instead like a self-serving paranoic wacko who feels compelled to spew his baseless philosophies to anyone willing to listen. He punctuates his writing with blatant half-truths and ignorant conclusions, trying to set the stage for his banter with half-assed anectdotes. Rather than coming off as intelligent, Bell sounds campy and unintelligent. Much like his radio show, it seems like his primary intent - when writing about the perils of the future, whether it be biologically, internationally or others - is to striek fear into the hearts of his viewers. While he most assuredly accomplishes this often on his radio show, when one reads it -- it sounds ridiculous.<br />The fact that Bell's show is so excellent exacerbates how astonishingly horrendous this book is. Don't waste your time, or your money. This book is a thinly-veiled marketing ploy to rake in a few books, using Bell's listener base as donators.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R3HSKSX8KT9IWJ	038572120X	543807449	The Melancholy of Anatomy: Stories	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Absolutely Remarkable	Shelley Jackson really knows how to do it, and this book is a keen demonstration of her literary abilties. She pulls off a gutsy fictitious romp through the four humors, both entertaining the reader and airing her wonderous ability to write. All at once, her writing is hopeful and dreary, unsettling, yet so comfortable, one could wrap oneself in it. Definitely, this is one of the most interesting books - both in premise and execution - that I have ever read.<br />This book is arguably nothing more than an exercise in experimental fiction. It will not fly off the shelves, and it will not be a best seller. Rather, it is a gem which will be ignored by most, disliked by many, and loved by few.<br />Jackson, here, portrays various parts of the body in environments which they are not usually found. A large foetus arrives in a town, looming overhead in an enormous fashion. From this viewpoint, it partakes in the activities of the town, serving as a pastor and -- remarkably -- as a sort of guiding light.<br />&quot;Egg&quot; is another story which I personally enjoyed. There is bleeding symbolism, and in some respects (throughout the book), heavy handed metaphors. Despite this, though, &quot;Egg&quot; is, for me, the most interesting story in the book. Jackson tells of an egg from a woman's tear duct which grows larger and larger. Throughout the story, Jackson punctuates her writing with a sort of omniscient commentary - it is witty and cynical - an easter egg found in this literary scape.<br />Overall, this book is well worth the while of anyone who loves to read something slightly offbeat, darkly humorous, and definitely interesting. It is an enjoyable romp through the parts of the human body, a romp which is playful and disturbing all at once. Really superb.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R1UQWRVJ4LLFCO	1931520003	574971878	Stranger Things Happen: Stories	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Strange...	&quot;Stranger Things Happen&quot; is Kelly Link's freshman work of fiction. Within it are eleven exquisitely crafted short stories which range from weird to the truly bizarre. It is difficult to catogorise Link's writing, as it seems to straddle science fiction and fantasy, narrative and fiction, real and unreal.<br />&quot;The Specialist's Hat&quot; is really one of the spookiest stories I have ever read. It is loosely written (as are many of the stories), which - rather than impeding the text - makes it easier to adapt. Her writing seems to permeate right into one's head, letting the reader formulate each story by themselves while being gently urged on by Link. She guides, but does not dictate, the reader. As a result, one makes each story one's own: This compounds how generally creepy her writing is.<br />The stories are also puncutated with truly odd characters. In &quot;Water off a Black Dog's Back,&quot; the boy's girlfriend's father is a bizarre character. He is lacking a nose, and therefore replaces it with a prosthesis according to circumstnace -- sometimes a wooden one, sometimes a steel one. Link again keeps her writing somewhat vague, but defined enough to paint a rather striking - and oddly frightening - picture of rural life under her twisted pen.<br />The fact that this is Link's first book shows, however. While her writing is strong (she shows remarkable talant), there are immature aspects to it, as well. Her stories can be somewhat &quot;plotless&quot; - they are more like literary sketches of disturbing scenarios. Although, this is also what renders her writing so captivating: She makes a story out of some strange event. She does not present a problem to be solved, a climax, a resolution. It's almost as if she leaves that to the reader, choosing instead to lay the groundwork for one's mind to grind away at -- as a reader, we torment ourselves thinking more of what Link has written than what is actually on the page.<br />Kudos to Link for her uncanny ability to turn the familiar into the frightening. Her writing conveys a sense of uneasiness, she manages to make the most normal circumstances into the most disturbing. She is an excellent, captivating writer.anny ability to turn the familiar into the frightening. Her writing conveys a sense of uneasiness, she manages to make the most normal circumstances into the most disturbing. She is an excellent, captivating writer.	2004-03-21
US	42898840	R3EPELNBWPEXFO	0028643658	495050912	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Calculus	Books	4	22	22	N	Y	Excellent Introduction, Very Clear	I have two calculus review books by m. kelley, and this one - while the lesser of the two - is still an excellent introduction to the fundamentals of Calculus. I am currently enrolled in Calculus AB (essentially, Calc I, a bit of Calc II, and Differential Equation slope fields). This book was purchased with the intention of introducing myself to topics before they were covered in class, and to clarify those topics in class which I did not understand. To these two purposes, the book was very good.<br />Firstly, the title: You're not an idiot if you're studying calculus. Most people have trouble using the quadratic formula, let alone finding the volume of y = x ^ 6 + 3x rotated around the x-axis. Thus, of course, the name is misleading. There are, of course, assumptions made about the reader's mathematical background. Mainly, that there is one: Strong algebraic concepts are important, as is a fundamental understanding of the cartesian plane system and basic function graphs -- both of which, leading up to the study of calc, one should be well-versed in.<br />Kelley covers (though not in the order of my class) about forty topics in Calculus, ranging from basic derivatives to diff eq slope fields to application of integrals. He writes clearly and concisely, often reiterating what he says in different ways to really drive the theorems and applications home.<br />Additionally, while straying from the topic order of my class, Kelley links together the units in a logical progression: His explanations are excellent, and really have to be -- Every unit in calculus compounds upon the one before it. Probably the strongest part of this book is that Kelley manages to consistantly re-visit past topics and demonstrate how they relate to newly-introduced topics.<br />The biggest drawback to this book is the lack of review problems. This can easily be remedied, however, by purchasing an additional book (IE, 3000 solved problems in Calculus) or going online to do research.<br />This book is not a stand-alone, either: It can't and won't teach one everything about calculus, nor should one expect it to. Rather, it should be used as an introduction - and in conjunction with other resources - to the ideas behind the main concepts of calc. It is an excellent reference for explanations of formulas and applications of formulas.<br />Overall, an excellent study guide and additional resource to anyone made squeamish by the idea of riemann sums and l'hopitals rule.ook is not a stand-alone, either: It can't and won't teach one everything about calculus, nor should one expect it to. Rather, it should be used as an introduction - and in conjunction with other resources - to the ideas behind the main concepts of calc. It is an excellent reference for explanations of formulas and applications of formulas. <br />Overall, an excellent study guide and additional resource to anyone made squeamish by the idea of riemann sums and l'hopitals rule.	2004-03-20
US	42898840	R1AVZELH0NG5K3	0471134473	972903154	Basic Physics: A Self-Teaching Guide	Books	2	143	173	N	Y	Rudimentary and Generally Useless for Studying...	I am currently enrolled in an entry-level physics course. There is no calculus involved in this course, nor is it a &quot;math&quot; based physics course: Rather, it is an introduction to most topics fundamental to physics. For the purposes of academicia, this book is essentially useless. Its coverage of topics attempts to be too many things at once: As a student, I got the impression that it was an attempt to cover everything, but with as little complexity as possible.<br />Thus, one is left with a sense of surface understanding, but very few abilities for application.<br />This book was purchased as a method by which I could introduce myself to topics covered in class. The theory behind this was that if i learned the basics from an outside source, then when we covered them (more in-depth and mechanical, less layman's-terms). This book provides an overly-simplified, dumbed-down portrayal of physics.<br />If you've never taken any physics courses and have - literally - no background in mechanics (and a weak background in algebra-based math), then this book may be perfect for you: It is a gentle, superficial introduction to the most basic concepts of physics. There basic discussion of Newton's laws of motion, some kinetic/potential energy discussion, etc: All topics common to most non-math physics courses. Additionally, while brief explanations of major laws and motions are given, there are very few practice problems and application instances. Thus, you've learned - in theory - say, Newton's Second Law. But the book, in no way, guides you through an application of said law.<br />Simply, it is a gentle introduction - and very gentle, at that - to the world of physics. The simple language is easy to follow, though topics are hardly covered thoroughly. But it is a good starting-off point if you are easing yourself into the study of physics (on your own). I highly recommend finding another, more thorough (and in-depth) book in order to further examine topics.	2004-03-20
US	42898840	R3JB0FWG732DMM	0312099150	395932577	Southern Ladies & Gentlemen	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Almost Five, But...	It's interesting to go back and read some of Florence King's earlier works. This book is clearly from the beginning of her writing career: Her writing is not as sharp as it was in her column (\\"The Misanthrope's Corner\\"), and she occasionally tends to delve into long spells of almost too much information.<br />That said, \\"Southern Ladies and Gentlemen\\" was one of the funniest books I've ever read. As a Northerner (and infatuated with the South), this book is an insightful - and hilarious - glimpse into every-day Southern culture. After a couple trips to the South, and then reading this book, I can see where her descriptions come from - and how frighteningly (and laughably) accurate they are.<br />While this book is occasionally punctuated with the sexual remark (or \\"saucy outburst\\"), the point is still very much in the text: The South has a very regimented set of codes for its citizens to follow. Women, all at once, have to be scatterbrained and pert, \\"saucy\\" and chaste...This balancing act, of course, is written about numerous times throughout the book.<br />This is an introduction to the South, letting the reader get a sneak-peek behind the scenes, so to speak, of the social, sexual, and political culture. As is King's way, it is full of sarcasm, wit, and hilarity: She does an excellent job of entertaining the reader.	2004-03-16
US	42898840	RDOV22T17842V	0060520841	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	4	5	10	N	Y	Must be Taken at Face Value	Bernard Goldberg does a thorough job examining the liberal bias in mainstream media. However &quot;folksy&quot; and anectdote-riddled his writing may be, the point of this text comes across very well. He is adept at spotting subtle &quot;bias&quot; in news (and entertainment, though to a lesser extent) and manages to introduce the reader to what, exactly, makes a news report biased.<br />Unfortunately, my biggest problem with this book was also one of its strongest points. As it is written from Goldberg's own experience in the media (28 years at CBS), this book also becomes a forum for Goldberg to speak personally about those who has encountered in the news media. While this serves to essentially present the reader with a first-hand account of the perceived bias, it also tends to bias this text itself, as well.<br />Another drawback to this book was the manner in which it is written. Rather than citing (perhaps in a more dry, scholarly manner) instances of evident &quot;bias&quot; in the media (though you don't have to look much further than your own local television station), Goldberg writes the same as he would hold a conversation. It makes for light reading. The lack of intellectual stimuli from this book, however, can be overcome: This book is meant to fuel contemplation, not to think *for* you. In this arena, it accomplishes its task quite well.<br />However rudimentary this introduction is, it still does make some very strong points. Goldberg is able to articulate many different points about bias in the news - ie, there obviously shouldn't be a left-leaning bias, but, of course, there also shouldn't be a right-leaning bias evident in the news, either. He speaks without any clear alliance to the &quot;right&quot; or &quot;left,&quot; however &quot;right&quot; he may be.	2004-03-16
US	42898840	R2L70UCEHDMCCF	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Overall, Well-Done	Barbara Ehrenreich, for all of the fundamental flaws in the premise of her grand experiment, does a fairly good job presenting the &quot;working poor.&quot; Nickel and Dimed is a first-hand account of Ehrenreich's attempt to assume a low-paying (read: Sub- $8.00/hr) job and attempt to, essentially, make ends meet. She holds numerous positions, among which are waitressing in the Key West and cleaning houses in Maine. While her writing may get wordy and almost general to a fault (she tends to use non-specific, broad language which makes it mildly boring), she does a commendable job of holding reader's interest overall.<br />Overall being the key word.<br />Ehrenreich does a formidable job of presenting her own circumstances, and there is much to be said for an actual &quot;experiment&quot; versus plain regurgitation of news articles or statistics. Additionally (fully appreciated by me), she does not weigh her writing down in facts; rather, she presents the issue at hand (with a noticeable leftist-skew, but it is tolerable) as she has experienced them, leaving the reader to make their own judgement.<br />While this book is a sounding board for Ehrenreich's own political commentary, what she says is validated by the circumstances she had put herself in to write this book. Did she really get a 100% accurate experience? Of course not. But she manages to maintain an air of credibility by having actually experienced about what she writes.<br />This is an excellent book to read for an introduction to the plight of the &quot;working poor.&quot; While I don't agree with a lot of what she says, it is still worthwhile - she raises issues on the most fundamental level of acceptable survival/lifestyle, and validly so. There are, of course, flaws in what she did - and it was exactly that, an &quot;experiment&quot; - she could easily revert back to her old, cushy lifestyle without much effort.	2004-02-29
US	42898840	R2ME6414RBTS93	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Might Somehow Resemble Worthwhile, If Only...	Michael Moore could somehow string his bleeding-heart sentiments to something bearing weight.<br />Michael Moore seems to suffer from the same problem that Ann Coulter does: I'm sure there are somewhat valid arguments hiding in his writing, but they are totally obstructed by his continual ethos and pathos, rather than logos. Moore writes with emotion, and in when most of what we read, see, and hear is swayed by bias (either left *or* right), it's time to open the stand to something a bit more fair. Moore continually rants and raves, sometimes to the point of incoherency, about the Rightist &quot;faction&quot; in the United States, without any support.<br />So, big deal. Moore can equate the Iraqi war's justification with the purchase of a Whopper. If he spent half the effort making coherent arguments that are supported by fact and logic, rather than spewing bile at Republicans and conservatives, this book might be worth reading.<br />Like the balance of Moore's film and written ventures, he continually appeals to the emotion of the reader. While his ideas are not without their merits, he spends so much time trying to make &quot;funnies&quot; and win the reader over with his easily-read style, there's absolutely no substance to the book.<br />It seems as if he's attempting to write a high-brow book for a low-brow audience: He's idealistic and hypocritical. When he carries on with endless banter about how the September 11th attacks could have been prevented, but then goes on to slam the rise in national defense spending. Skewed? Most assuredly. How can he complain about an attack when he lobbies to cut the funding to prevent another one? Much like his film &quot;Bowling For Columbine,&quot; Moore presents fictionalized &quot;facts&quot; in order to cater to his own agenda.<br />Sur le finalement, Moore paints his readers into a liberal-esque corner. His ideas aren't fundamentally flawed, but reading his writing is boring - and the feeling is that he simply tries too hard to get his reader to slam the book shut and say &quot;WHY THIS MR. MOORE IS CERTAINLY RIGHT!&quot; Rather than proposing a way to change things, he instead spends the balance of the time - besides slamming his opposers - complaining. If he actually presented some theories on how to fix things, instead of simply telling readers things that they already know, this book would be vastly better.o hard to get his reader to slam the book shut and say &quot;WHY THIS MR. MOORE IS CERTAINLY RIGHT!&quot; Rather than proposing a way to change things, he instead spends the balance of the time - besides slamming his opposers - complaining. If he actually presented some theories on how to fix things, instead of simply telling readers things that they already know, this book would be vastly better.	2004-02-27
US	42898840	RYBKEU9RFQBFW	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellence	Orson Scott Card pens in the introduction to Ender's Game that the story came to him many years before its writing. The premise of the story is a similar premise to most strong science fiction: A military and political base, which is built upon by differentiating the fiction's situation from the real-world situation. While Card articulates a world decidedly different than the one we currently inhabit, he is strikingly able to convey a sense of &quot;currency.&quot; Card hardly alienates his readers by the changes of society, he instead pulls them even closer. The development of characters throughout this book is excellent, and they are represented as complex, warring beings - both within themselves and with others.<br />Ender Wiggin is a child genius, a &quot;third&quot; in a world which only accepts two children. He, like other children like him, are trained in military strategy in order to assist the Earth's efforts in fighting an alien race, the Buggers. While many of the names for beings in this book are reminiscent of elementary school science fiction, the ideas behind them overshadow any predisposition a poor name may provide.<br />Ender undergoes a grueling military sequence, beginning at battle school and eventually winding up at what he believes to be a commander training school. When he goes to Battle School at the age of six years old (an age which still strikes me as far, far too young, regardless of Card's premise), he leaves behind his brother, Peter, his sister, Valentine, and his two parents.<br />The relationships between the characters seethe with humanity: They are complex, with depth and inner-conflict. Ender's sister, Valentine, is torn between supporting Ender in his battles, and letting her own emotions interfere. Ender hates Peter, because he identifies too strongly with him - and this disturbs Ender.<br />Card employs a simplistic writing style, making it easy to read. However, this doesn't not indicate a poor story line - rather, the simplicity helps to draw the reader in by letting them focus upon the story, rather than complex syntax and interpretation.<br />Overall, this book represents science fiction's strongest traits: It is a portrait of humanity painted so differently than we see, but we recognize ourselves in it. This was truly a book which stayed with me long after reading it.icity helps to draw the reader in by letting them focus upon the story, rather than complex syntax and interpretation. <br />Overall, this book represents science fiction's strongest traits: It is a portrait of humanity painted so differently than we see, but we recognize ourselves in it. This was truly a book which stayed with me long after reading it.	2004-02-26
US	42898840	R1E47IR1J7SDY2	0060955570	398028963	Little Green Men: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Interesting	To be frank, this book was an impulsive purchase. I saw it at the bookstore some years ago, and bought it after scanning briefly through it. Of course, like most impulsive book purchases, it wound up sitting on my shelf until last week. Buckley makes a strong showing in this book as a political satirist, however his ability to craft a story has something to be desired. He was able to capture my attention for hours at a time with this book, but the I found myself dragging my feet through the last fifty pages or so: I kept asking myself if something was going to happen of any particular significance. While Buckely himself is a mediocre writer, his jokes and usage of intertextuality makes him interesting to read.<br />The premise of this book is interesting enough, and gives Buckley an excellent jumping-off point to plunge the reader into a hilarious rendition of Alien abductees who finally have their day in the sun. The national issue of UFOs and alien contact is brought to the forefront of US media after a prominant televisoin host, Jack Banion, is abducted twice by a top-secret US Government collective, Majestic 12. It is clear that Buckley did his research; he intertwines this story with many references to various conspiracy theories.<br />Banion, the protagonist, finds himself falling from grace - he is no longer on Washington DC's A-list. Rather, he becomes the champion of UFO wackos, people who come in throngs claiming to have been abducted. While the story line continues upon a predicatble path, the ending had something to be desired. Additionally, for such an excellent premise, Buckley really fails to do anything phenomenal with it.<br />That being said, \\"Little Green Men\\" is not without its merits. While it was initially difficult to get into, after the first two-dozen pages I found myself smirking and, yes, even laughing aloud to what was said by Buckley. His political commentary falls middle-of-the-road, and while he does dish out a few low-brown sex jokes (probably pandering to the \\"People\\" magazine crowd), his humor does have some fine points. His continual parodies of government officials as bumbling fools become tiresome (if not already cliche before opening the book itself), but overall a worthy effort.es (probably pandering to the \\"People\\" magazine crowd), his humor does have some fine points. His continual parodies of government officials as bumbling fools become tiresome (if not already cliche before opening the book itself), but overall a worthy effort.	2004-02-26
US	42898840	RRG6UVEYUAXOL	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Undeniable Masterpiece, Still Rings True..	Many a public school students have had this epic tale shoved down their throat; thus turning them off from any further exploration of it. I, however, was never victim of such forced reading of this text, and as a result, grasped it on my own free will. This is one of the newest translations of Beowulf, and possibly the best one out there.<br />Undoubtedly, Heaney's translation is fairly easy to read. The pages are in old English and then Heaney's translation, facing one another. While this makes for an entertaining reading experience, I don't know how to read Old English and therefore this was lost to me.<br />In this book, Seamus Heaney manages to translate Beowulf accurately and carefully; the awkward language of many translations is not present here. Additionally, while not simplistic, Heaney's writing style is easily understandable. This book was truly a joy to read.<br />Also, what renders this book so interesting in my own mind is not only its age, but its continued appeal. Beowulf was penned anonymously some 1 000 years ago - give or take a few centuries. As a result, it was written in old English, the ancient great-great-great grandparent of our own jargon today. Nevertheless, the archtypical ideals remain the same: Beowful is fierce, and he battles a monster.<br />The heroics of the story, and the basic plot, remain unadultured even in our culture today. We still find ourselves drawn to heroics and the battle of good versus evil, this arguably the root of most stories. Beowulf just goes to show that a millenia later, we still are able to connect with the literary and sociological aspirations of our forefathers.	2003-08-06
US	42898840	RHVJ6A4XCUFN5	0312868804	14613762	The SFWA Grand Masters, Volume 1: Robert A. Heinlein, Jack Williamson, Clifford D. Simak, L. Sprague de Camp, and Fritz Leiber	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent Breadth of the Genre	firstly, this book is from the &quot;golden age&quot; of science fiction - generally, the time span of the 1950s - late 1960s. of course, there is quite the sf debate to be had as to whether this was really a &quot;golden age&quot; or not, but that's left out of this review ;) there are three volumes, each containing assorted works by five grandmaster award winners.<br />essentially, the grandmaster award &quot;may not be awarded more than six times in ten years&quot; and is given to a contemporary (re: living) science fiction author.<br />heinlein's stories are very good - they take up approximately 1/3 of the book, though. &quot;the roads must roll&quot; was quite dated, and definitely the worst of the bunch; though that alone is completely relative, by itself it wouldn't have been nearly so bad. the rest of his stories are magnificant, and he remains arguably one of the best science fiction writers to ever put the pen to the paper.<br />jack williamson, clifford simak, l. sprague de camp, and fritz leiber all produce fantastic stories for this anthology, as well.<br />one of the best aspects of this anthology is that it offers stories which may not otherwise have been discovered. frederick pohl does an appropriate and respectful job introducing the authors, and his love of the genre is apparant. this book should not be overlooked and is one of the most valuable science fiction short story anthologies i have come across. highly recommended.	2003-02-17
