US	42907319	RIOQ6OSN9ONID	0763621552	27366794	Vegan Virgin Valentine	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Clichè Worth Repeating	I was glad to see that this book got mostly good reviews from customers despite being labeled clich. Sure, it is somewhat predictable, but that didn't keep me from enjoying it. The plot revolves around seventeen year-old Mara, whose life is basically dominated by academic pressures and successes and all of the test scores, GPA's, and extracurricular activities that go with them. Though she has already gotten into Yale, she is determined to beat her ex-boyfriend Travis Hart in the race to become valedictorian. When V, her sixteen year-old niece, (the daughter of a much older, rebellious sibling) comes to live with Mara's family, Mara is forced to question the manner in which she has lived her life thus far. As V struggles not to gain a bad reputation as a stoner and a tramp (she makes out with Mara's ex-boyfriend on her first day of school) in her new school, and enrolls in SAT prep courses and gains a part in the school play, Mara begins to question the validity of her dreams and ambitions. She finds herself wishing she could reconnect with old friends, growing attracted to her twenty-two year-old boss at the coffee shop where she works part-time, and even as a vegan, dreaming of cheese! <br /> <br />Having already read Mackler's sophomore effort \\"The Earth, My Butt, and Other Big Round Things\\", I recognized her humor and was once again amused by her penchant for nuanced, eccentric characters. However, I especially identified the book's exposure of the mindset of an honor-roll student and the hypocrisy of a school administration that lavishes praise on Mara while it continues to exert pressures on her that sap her of her energy. Even though Mara seemingly has it all, one cannot help but empathize with her slow realization that it isn't making her very happy. The reader can also commend her for having the courage to gradually make changes in her life in order to assert her independence and her desires, even if Mackler might take these freedoms a tad too far for credibility at times.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the two aspects of this book that I appreciated the most were Mara's relationship with James and her relationship with her parents. Even though James is twenty-two and hasn't been to college, which typically screams bad news for a teenage girl, he is portrayed as sensitive and possessing a wisdom that cannot be accumulated from textbooks but rather from age. He serves as a striking contrast to the model-student, closet-jerk Travis, who pressures Mara sexually. I liked the fact that this book emphasizes the importance of trusting one's own feelings when it comes to sexual relationships and shows a character who waits until she is ready to have sex and reaps positive results. Mara's relationship with her parents is portrayed with equal complexity in that the reader sees evidence of their love for their daughter even as they seem unable to in V's words \\"cut the cord\\". <br /> <br />I found this book to be a quick read but one that was hard to put down. I loved watching Mara's transformation as she went from being an uptight, austere A-student to being a more moderate, fun-loving person who finds herself in love. This metamorphosis is set in opposition to V's equally compelling makeover from \\"stonah babe\\" and \\"slutty tramp degenerate\\" into a girl who is aware of her talents and respects herself while never losing her edge. This book is for anyone who has found themselves wondering if there is more to life than making the honor-roll. <br />	2005-07-20
US	42907319	R34W6BYTLHUK2R	0380815591	379285845	The Mermaids Singing	Books	4	9	9	N	N	What One Can Learn From Her History...	Cliona, a traditional-minded Irish woman immigrated from Inis Murdoch to Boston, where she worked as a maid for an upper-class family. An unlikely sexual encounter leads her to become pregnant with her daughter, Grace. Grace grows up feeling that she is unwanted by her mother who she views as weak, intolerant, and subservient to others. Cliona, on the other hand, wants to protect her beautiful, strong-willed daughter from the dangers that face young girls, and wants to keep her from making the same mistakes that she made as a girl. After a disaster leads to friction with the family that Cliona works for, and a widower from Ireland offers Cliona the opportunity to return home to be the mother of his children and help him manage his inn, Cliona drags Grace back to Ireland against her will.  <br /> <br />After several years of moping, Grace finally meets and falls in love with Seamus. The two marry and Grace gives birth to a daughter, Grainne, but can never overcome her longing to return to the United States. This homesickness culminates in a late-night escape, in which Grace flees Ireland and returns to America, denying her curious daughter any knowledge of who her father is. Grainne grows up, therefore, thinking that her father was just one of the many men who passed in and out of her father's life. However, when Grace dies of breast cancer, Cliona reemerges to bring fifteen year-old Grainne back to Ireland against her will, in the same way that she once dragged Grace back. Grainne becomes intrigued by the notion that her father, a man with whom her mother once shared a transcendant love with, is still alive and wants to see her, and tries to find him. In the meanwhile, she can only cope with the loss of her mother by starving herself and withdrawing from virtually everyone on the island. <br /> <br />This story could have easily degenerated into a Lifetime movie script, with its plot about three generations of women tracing their roots back to Ireland. However, Carey's lyrical, vivid prose and seemingly genuine love of her characters, makes it instead a vivid and moving portrayal of love and betrayal and loss. The story is narrated alternately by each of the three women, with Grace's story being told in third-person as her death is depicted at the beginning of the book. As another reader pointed out, sexuality is a strong theme running throughout the book as Carey compares and contrasts each woman's experience of sex. Cliona, the traditionalist, seems to view sex as a shameful act of indulgence, for which she was punished by giving birth to Grace. Grace, on the other hand is wild and free-spirited, and has passionate sex with both Michael, the son of her mother's employers, and Seamus, her husband. For her sex is both an expression of love and a pleasure in itself. Grainne, finally, feels inadequate in the shadow of her temptress mother. She experiments with boys, and, left unsatisfied is still waiting for the right one to come along with whom to \\"go all the way\\" with. <br /> <br />I higly recommed this book that tells a story of love and lust and loss and betrayal as these three women in their own way, gradually come to terms with one another. <br /> <br />	2004-12-15
US	42907319	RIIGWL7R3SGIH	0064472574	553015843	Breathing Underwater	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mildly Formulaic, Yet Engrossing Nonetheless	When Nick is brought into court by his ex-girlfriend, Caitlyn, for his abusive behavior (which results in \\"more than just a slap\\"), he thinks he can smile and talk his way out of it to the judge. Unfortunately, the judge thinks she has seen too many kids like Nick and grants Caitlyn the restraining order that she requests, as well as assigning Nick to an anger-management group for men who abuse women, and asks him to keep a journal reflecting on what he has done. What few people know is that Nick only does what has been to him by his father, to whom Nick is always a disappointment.<br />The story consists of Nick's journal through which we learn about the beginnings of his relationship, how he spends most of his time with his \\"perfect\\" friend, Tom, who encourages him to find a girlfriend. Caitlyn is the product of a summer weight-loss camp and an overbearing, superficial mother. Nick is drawn to Caitlyn and she is flattered. Yet the more he loves her, the more he feels the need to keep control over her, whether it be through insults, isolation, and finally, intimidation and abuse. <br />Interspersed with the journal entries are tales of how Nick is treated, essentially ostracized by his peers, while he watches others rally around Caitlyn, whom he still desires to reunite with. The novel also takes us inside the group counselling which Nick receives. One cannot help but laugh at the stereotypical participants: the reformed group-leader, the Southern hick, the \\"tough\\" African American, the seasoned old police officer, and Mr. Cool who is determined to fake his way through therapy. We are taken through the denial of all the men as they insist how they have been wronged, and are dragged right into the vortex of what causes certain men to become violent.<br />I read this book in roughly three days. Although it is at times formulaic, it is one-of-a-kind and a good resource for teenagers curious about the subject of domestic violence. One cannot help but feel that Nick isa good person even as he becomes more and more tyrannical towards Caitlyn. While the portrayals of violence by no-means minimize abuse, they are not so graphic as to frighten away teenagers, even at the brutal finale of Caitlyn and Nick's relationship. It is also intriguing the way the author shows that not all men are abusive: Nicos' friend, Tom, for example, frequently approaches his friend about what he feels is his growing cruelty towards Caitlyn. Readers are granted a view of a healthier and more respectful relationship between Tom and his girlfriend, Liana. A highly-recommended, important Young Adult book.	2003-06-12
US	42907319	R3SD3RPPLD2XR3	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Blessed Are the Meek, For They Shall Inherit A Fruit Basket	So you think you know everything there is to know about the life of Jesus Christ: you've read the New Testament, watched those documentaries on PBS, and own multiple copies of the movies made of His life. Yet do you ever find yourself wondering what happened to Him in that period of time between his getting lost at the Temple (age 12) and starting his ministry at age 30. Well, Biff is here to rescue you. He has been recruited by an archangel, kidnapped to a 20th-century hotel, and given the \\"gift of tongues\\" so that he might be able to transcribe once-and-for-all the story of Jesus' life through the eyes of His best friend.<br />Interspersed with tales of being held hostage in modern America (and denied access to a Bible nonetheless) with a Spiderman-loving, pizza-eating angel, we learn of the Messiah's earliest religious feats which included bringing lizards back to life for his younger brother, James, and attempting to circumcise a Roman statue. Joshua (the Hebrew name for Jesus) knows that he is special and ordained by God, but he doesn't quite know what that means. With Biff by his side, everything takes on a whole new meaning, as his wise-cracking buddy seeks hedonistic pleasure while always remaining loyal to Joshua, who can't help but watch with curiosity--I mean, what is it like to \\"know a woman\\"? And isn't it hard to resist one as good-looking as \\"Maggie\\"--Mary of Magdalene.<br />At age 12, after that infamous temple incident, Joshua goes off in search of the wise men who brought him gifts in his infancy. This journey takes him to such unsuspected locations as Kabul, China, and India, involving adventures with Chinese concubines, a yeti, and yoga ... Joshua and Biff spend six years with each wise man respectively. <br />When they finally return to Israel, the Hebrews are chafing under the rule of the Romans, and Joshua's crazy cousin John the Baptist's preaching isn't doing much to help. ... Meanwhile, Maggie has been divorced by her husband, a hideous Pharisee who is twice her age. As Jesus begins to preach and gathers disciples of his own, including The Twelve, Biff is always by his side, helping him to prepare his sermons and advising him on the more practical aspects of life. (Look, Joshua, adultery can't involve just looking at a woman and having thoughts, because then, if you are already sinning, you might as well go all the way.) Yet not even Biff and all of Joshua's friends can save Him from His pre-ordained fate. Or can they...<br />This is an excellent book! While some may think it's irreverent, I don't think it is at all. For the first time, an audience is being given a view of Jesus as a human being (he was you know) with real thoughts, feelings, confusions, and desires. He wants to do the right thing, but it isn't always easy for him to figure out what that is. And Biff is funny, and who wouldn't want to take him along on the road, even if it is to Crucifixion. In his afterword--\\"Teaching Yoga to an Elephant\\" Christopher Moore explains the path he took in writing this book, the research he did, the liberties he took. One of the most interesting points he makes in the story is that of making Mary of Magdalene a regular woman, because he found no evidence in the story that she was a prostitute. This book is charming, witty, and over-the-top. I know people who have read it and said it made them want to cry because they didn't think of Jesus as the type of person who had actual friends who would miss him not as a Messiah but as a person. The only quibble I had with this book, and it is a minor one, is the role of Judas. We barely even meet him and the next thing, he is off betraying Jesus. Oh, well, overall this is an excellent read. Just when you are thinking, \\"Oh, no, the author wouldn't have a Messiah do this...\\" It has already happened right before your very eyes.	2003-06-01
US	42907319	R3CBFA52EQT4TH	0312300395	694655854	The Good Patient: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Compelling... Easily Accessible	Darien Gilbertson is a woman who appears to have it all: she is charming (when she wants to be), outgoing and gregarious, attractive, young, has a stellar career, and a wonderful husband, who saved her from her reckless past, all at the young age of twenty-eight. Try as she might to ignore them, she is still haunted by urges to self-destruct for reasons unknown to her. When one evening she slams her fist into a wall and breaks her hand, her worried husband takes her to a psychiatrist, Dr. Rachel Lindholm. Darien isn't worried. She's played the whole therapy game for the past fourteen years, discussing in circles her alcoholism, bulimia, and promiscuity, preying on the vulnerabilities of her shrinks. Yet Dr. Lindholm is a tough act to read. Attractive, in her late thirties, married, and dressed in Gucci and jewelry, she has no detectable weaknesses and approaches Darien with a mix of gentle sympathy and firm concern. As Darien continues going to therapy in order to please her worried husband, memories slip forth about a harsh childhood with a negligent mother, as a well as the mysterious existence of Darien's stillborn twin sister, Dayton. When the memories become so vivid that Darien stumbles upon a hidden truth, the carefully-crafted facade she lives under crashes to pieces and she is forced to face her past as it puts her very life in danger with the strength of her emotions. Meanwhile, Robert, hurt and angry by all his wife has kept from him, finds a limit to his patience with being duped, and threatens to abandon his relationship with Darien altogether.<br />This was a very good book! Granted, a lot of literature these days focuses on the subject of women who seem to have it all yet desire to self-destruct, but this book really fulfills all expectations. Darien is such a likeable and accessible character, that one can't help reading on to find out more about her. Her outlook on life, hyper-intellectual rationales, and wry commentaries are the types of things that readers would find themselves thinking inside their own heads. Random scenes and anecdotes from Darien and Robert's life together show the poignant depth of their relationship and how much Darien really does care about her husband though she is reluctant to admit it. The characters of Woman-Who-Has-It-All-But-Won't-Appreciate-It, Mr.-Wonderful-Husband-Who-had-a-nice-Catholic-Upbringing, Tough-Loving-Savvy-Shrink, and Slimy-Boss all take on new dimensions in this finely-crafted enjoyable novel, making the characters seem comfortable as opposed to stereotypical. What's more the novel is suspenseful, leaving you wondering what is going to happen right up to the very last sentences. I await more from this highly capable author, and highly recommend THE GOOD PATIENT.	2003-05-31
US	42907319	R2X1E7XS6E2I9W	0689847297	892278206	America	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Underbelly of Life In America	I picked this book up off of a shelf thinking that it might be interesting, and I was completely blown away. Social worker E.R. Frank gives us her sophomore effort about a young racially-mixed boy named America (named thus do to the fact that his mother was so promiscuous, that her baby's father could have been anyone in America). After his wealthy foster-family doesn't want him anymore they give him to their nanny, his foster-mother, Mrs. Harper. America spends some happy years with Mrs. Foster, her friend Clark Poignant, and her brother, Browning. Then, his birth-mother asks to see him. Once she has him, she leaves him with his brothers, Lyle and Brooklyn, who teach him the tough ways of the city and how to be bad. America's mother never comes back, but a policemen finds the boys and miraculously tracks down Mrs. Harper. The foster family is united, only now Mrs. Harper is old, her friend Clark Poignant is dead, and Browning now has a secret which he very much wants to share with America, whether America can handle it or not. When America cannot deal with the weight of this secret or his perceived badness, he runs away from home, but not without first leaving an indelible mark of all the pain he has been through. He lives in a mall, then on the streets, and is finally sent to a residential home for troubled boys. When he attempts suicide, he is sent to Rivershore, a psychiatric hospital, where his caring psychiatrist, Dr. B, carefully and courageously works to help America even when America will not help himself.<br />This was a remarkable book! The fact that Frank is a social worker herself makes it clear that she knows what she is talking about. I enjoyed the way this book followed America's life from one difficult situation to another, leaving reader watching helplessly as America descends into hell. And this is a hell that is all-too-real for many unwanted children. The story is very harsh, showing an unmerciful picture of how painful it is to recover from trauma. It does end with hope, however, yet is realistic, without providing a perfect happy-ending. The story is narrated in chapters, alternating between \\"then\\" and \\"now\\", slowly spilling out America's story of despair and disassociation. I came to really enjoy America's psychiatrist, Dr. B, as a character. The interactions between him and America are at times so hilarious in their predictability, and one has to appreciate the dedication Dr. B has to helping America. Yet above-all, one grows to love America and salute him in his decision to face his pain and move on. A must-read!	2003-04-13
US	42907319	R1Q5P7EMK67OUJ	0671701045	112875152	Thing of Beauty	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What It's Like As One Of The Beautiful People	Gia Carangi was the 'It'-girl of the fashion world, a super-model icon whose appearance in Vogue and other Conde` Naste publications shaped the trends of the 1980's. Yet she was more than a model, as a high school student she was a fervent David Bowie fan; to her parents she was a lynchpin; to her father specifically she worked in his subshop; to recovering addicts, she was just another victim of heroin abuse; in the hospital where she died, she was another nameless patient with the recent phenomenon of AIDS. Throughout all these identities a common-thread of the anguish that was Gia wound entities of various status and character, interwoven into the cyclone that was Gia's life.<br />To those around her, it seemed Gia handled her rags-to-riches success with cavalier. Yet few knew that her reckless lifestyle only served as a narcotic in a frantic attempt to heal her inner, unresolved anguish of her parents' divorce when she was eleven, her feelings that her mother did not love her because she was too boyish, her homosexuality. As her modelling success mushroomed, so did the outrageous stunts and unheard-of (at least in the modelling world) behavior she pulled, likewise did the complexity of her relationships. There was often a triangle of Gia's mother, aunts, and lovers all fighting for what they thought was best for a woman who seemed totally incapable of caring for herself, particularly during the era of Studio 54 and Mick Jagger's \\"Sister Morphine\\". Yet everyone loved this model who was too short, too voluptuous, too ethnic, too rude, too sexy to be a model. Gia seemed to have it all, but then lost it. In 1986, she died a penniless heroin-addict of the new phenomenon (which was becoming all too common in the fashion world): HIV.<br />This was a wonderfully thorough book and interesting portrait of the modelling world. I was hooked from the first page which juxtaposes a tabloid special about modelling with Gia's own commentary while hospitalized. You learn some truly amazing facts about the modelling world and meet many of its idiosyncratic personalities such as Way Bandy (the poster-child for the openly-gay makeup artist), fashion model-turned agency director Wilhelmina (after whose death Gia began to seriously abuse heroin), Chris von Wangenheim (the photographer of the \\"Fetching Is Your Dior\\" ad campaign featuring a doberman clamping its jaws on a model's arm), and many, many others. While Fried certainly has easy-marketing material on his hands, he always manages to balance points of view, acknowledging that Gia's domineering mother, Kathleen, was a remarkably strong person who fought for Gia's survival in many ways. He shows the love of many professionals, family members, and friends, who were always fighting for the favor of this one electrifying woman, whose time on earth was too short. Anyone who has an interest in knowing about what goes on behind-the-scenes in modelling really must read this book. The fact that I know what Conde` Nast is can be attributed to this book's journalistic merit.	2003-02-23
US	42907319	R3M0HSRHCVHNFF	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	3	37	39	N	N	The Kiss of Damage	As the reviews have said, you are probably rolling your eyes with this one, or else you are simply laughing with amazement. \\"Somebody finally did it! They slept with their father! Now we can hear all the gory details!\\" Yet surprisingly, with THE KISS, this is not the case. In fact, there are no gory details, just the plain and simply-told story of a vulnerable young woman who became an instrument in the undying love affair of her parents.<br />Kathryn Harrison's parents divorced before she was a year old. She lived with her young mother at her grandparents' house and then simply with her grandparents. She never had contact with her father. Yet there always seemed to be a shadow of his presence lingering around every corner. On the few occasions when her father, a Mormon preacher, did come to visit, her mother could not focus on anyone or anything else. After years of teenage difficulties, anorexia, bulimia, and feeling caught in the middle of her mother's silent struggle against her own parents, Kathryn Harrison finally gets a chance to reclaim her relationship with her father when she comes home from college at age twenty. All seems to be going well until at the last moment of their parting, Harrison's father gives her a kiss, a slow, passionate, open-mouthed kiss. Thus begins the seduction of Harrison by her father.<br />\\"God gave you to me\\" is all he said. And even as Kathryn isolates herself from friends, thwarts her anguished mother, and quits college, her father simply responds with frustration, 'Don't you know what you're doing to me?' or 'Those rules are for other people, we are exceptions.' And the love affair continues for the next four years, with Harrison living with her father's new family at one point. It is only when Kathryn Harrison's mother succumbs to breast cancer that she is able to finally reconcile with her dying mother and break off this damaging relationship with her father.<br />Overall, this book was well-written. As I said, one can appreciate the fact that Kathryn Harrison doesn't get into graphic details and writes with integrity and grace. She talks more about her feelings and the psychology of an addictive relatioship rather than the physical aspect. At the same time, however, this book unfortunately did not capture enough of my attention. It seemed to focus on a lot of minuscule details such as where the affair took place and at what time, when it could have been delving further into the relationships. At times, Kathryn Harrison's prose seemed to be over-wrought for the given situation. I must say, however, that the ending is very moving and poignant. It is also inspiring to know that in spite of this bizarre tragedy, Harrison has gotten on with her life as her literary legacy and happy family are testimony to.	2002-10-03
US	42907319	RI7SPV9YOMUTW	0446670235	954722895	Exposure	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Under Bright-Lights A Secret Lies	What drew me to this book the most was its cover. As interesting as the plot-line seemed, I think the cover was incredibly well-done. The woman has this blunt, wistful stare and yet seems so carefully posed as to be unexposed. She is veiled in that we cannot see anything (her clothes, hair, body) except her face. Because of the cover, I was really excited about this book, and my expectations were met... somewhat.<br />Ann Rogers appears to have it all: beautiful, successful photographer, married. She seems to have everything under-control. Yet secretly her life is in shambles as a museum sets up an exhibit of her father's sexually explicit, masochistic, disturbing, and very, very controversial photographs, for which Ann was his model. Ostensibly, Ann is fine with the exhibit, and as controller of his estate (her father committed suicide when she was nineteen) she even participates in it. However, she has also turned to crystal-meth and compulsive shop-lifting as a buttress, and mismanagement of her severe diabetes as an escape.<br />Overall, this book was pretty good, not overly exploitative, and well-written. It was very dramatic I really liked the inserts which described the photographs of Ann as a girl. While some reviewers complained that it wasn't fair of the author to give us an anonymous nineteen year-old protestor of the exhibit who sets herself on fire, I felt the anonymity worked in that it embodies the destructive impulses Ann's father's work led to in Ann herself, and shows the way people can have an effect on us without our knowing it. At the same time, I felt this book could have been better had it been narrated by Ann's point-of-view. I couldn't really tell what she was feeling and this put me at a distance from her as the central character. The inserts that were narrated by Ann seemed too dramatic, italicized and supposing to be passioonate, while they really revealed very little at all. I wish I could have gotten more of a feel for how Ann felt about her fame as a model, and perhaps the feelings of humiliation at being so exposed so young. I also didn't like the conclusion. We have no idea where the story is going and what is happening to Ann. The connection with charity work was a poor one.<br />On the whole though, I admire Kathryn Harrison for attempting to tell a story of what amounts to incest when it is not blatantly so, therefore leaving the victim in dire confusion, with only a desire to self-destruct. At times this may seem like another \\"beautiful-talented-destructive-young-woman tale\\", but you can't blame Ann after what she's been through.	2002-08-23
US	42907319	RMOW6WVDGAVA3	0679736395	883298002	Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Darkness In Brief	It's hard to imagine that someone like William Styron with so much talent and so much to live for could succumb to such a life-shattering clinical depression.Yet nonetheless, he did at the age of sixty, and in this brief 80 page memoir he entails how it was that he came to be depressed, how he endured it, and how he came through and reemerged from it. He also manages to do so with a brief intensity, without dwelling on how the world had &quot;wronged&quot; him or on how tough it is to be a writer-celebrity or bragging about all his achievements. Styron writes with a confidence and deftness which does not attempt false modesty or give us overbearing or pointlessly shocking revelations.<br />The book starts out rather slow with a trip to Paris to accept a prestigious writing award, and at first I was not crazy about it. Yet soon I found myself thoroughly engrossed and liking it in spite of myself. While he does not fully analyze the causes of depression, I don't think that was his intention in writing this book. He also does not take time to explore casual aspects of this life and seems to obliterate the myth that all memoirs are egocentric. Perhaps what I liked most was William Styron's insistence that while he does not blame others for depression, nor is it the victim's fault, and that suicide is not a cop-out or something to be disguised by relatives, but the tragic outcome of a crippling illness.<br />I don't think that I will be reading another memoir by Styron simply because I don't think he meant for this book to be a display of his life to the public. What I do hope for is another memoir on depression that is written with his skill and mastery of the English language.	2002-08-16
US	42907319	RGE4ZOVDAKVB0	0375503587	960148459	Electroboy: A Memoir of Mania	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Totally Sensationalized	Here is the itinerary for ELECTROBOY: Prologue, my relatively normal childhood, college, going insane in college, wasting lots of money out of college, some porn, attempts to produce an amateur film (which pans), therapy, job at Versace, meet male escorts, get job as stripper/hustler, move in with girlfriend, get job at sister's PR agency, some more therapy, more sex, and a job making deals for a prominent, industrial artist--Brace yourself, that's only the first 100 pages. From there on it is a wild ride describing Mr. Behrman's forgery schemes which make him a felon and send him to jail for five months, his diagnosis of manic-depression, the impulsivity which characterizes this disorder, and finally, after many attempts at medication, undergoing electroshock therapy, and then stabilization.<br />While the book itself was by no-means dull, I have numerous criticisms of it. First of all, there was very little information about bipolar disorder. In fact, the only factual information I can recall was about the four theories on how electroconvulsive therapy can treat mental disorders. I know Mr. Behrman wanted his memoir to be \\"cool\\" rather than dry and factual, but he could have worked some facts into the narrative. Second of all, I found myself dissatisfied with a completely sensationalized telling of Mr. Behrman's life. Roughly half the book is taken up with pornography and bizarre sexual situations. I don't mind explicit sex but there was so much of it and if I had wanted to read a book about a post-college student's freaky sex life, I would have picked one entitled just that. It seems like Mr. Behrman was trying to \\"hide\\" his story under the respectable guise of a psychological illness, when really, he just fills it with details of sex, drugs, parties, and spending binges. Even the electroshock which supposedly saved him seems meant to be outlandish. The title \\"Electroboy\\" seems to be shouting \\"Look at me, look how crazy I am. I needed shock treatment!\\" Lastly, Ifeel that the reason why the manic-depression got so bad was because the author did not take treating his illness seriously. He quits taking various medications because they lower his sex-drive. Given his sexual impulsivity, I would think this would be a GOOD THING for him! I certainly wouldn't consider it a priority at a point where the man was psychotic!<br />Overall, this just did not seem like a quality-book. The writing was okay, did well enough to carry the story. But I can't give this book better reviews for its writing style alone. Andy Behrman lacked the humor of Elizabeth Wurtzel or the poignancy of Susanna Kaysen. If you want a freaky, totally-out-there tome with some manic depression thrown in as a bonus, then read this. If you're looking for a memoir of a person with a crippling illness, read something else.	2002-08-08
US	42907319	R8CKYKNG2F2D3	0195121139	764541123	Bad Boys, Bad Men: Confronting Antisocial Personality Disorder	Books	3	28	31	N	N	Conscientiously Without Conscience	Are there some people who simply make it their mission to be bad? The psychiatric circle is now beginning to believe so. In this groundbreaking look at Anti-social Personality Disorder (ASP) psychiatrist Donald Black charts the process and problems of men (for they are primarily men) who know no conscience and simply refuse to obey the rules. Typically, these men are white and working class, who go through jobs, money, homes, prisons, and family with a virtual disgregard for those around them. They may have come from poor families and broken homes, they are likely to have been juvenile delinquents, their parents may have been antisocials as well. But the Antisocial is a very dangerous person who comes in any size, shape, or form. <br />At the risk of seeming like another attempt to plead pity for criminals, Donald Black insists that these men be held responsible for their actions, and avoids placing blame on anyone but them for the destruction they seem to willfully cause. He discusses various causes for the disorder (ie: genetics, brain trauma, abuse, poverty), the history of its discovery, and gives us case studies of men who he has tracked down more than twenty years after their initial hospitalization and diagnosis with ASP, often with unsettling results.<br />I liked this book for its scholarly treatment of this psychiatric subject. It was complex and in-depth, but at the same time, still accessible to me as a non-psychiatrist. I was fascinated with the descriptions of personalities that he gave, and riveted by the petrifying account he gave of the sociopath John Wayne Gacy. At the same time, I did have some problems with this book. At times, it did not hold my attention and would read like a textbook. I also found that Dr. Black's treatment of the antisocial was rather contemptuous and seemed to emphasize the fact that these people are virtually impossible to treat, rather than trying to show optimism or enthusiasm. I don't think you can help somebody (no matter how unlikeable they may seem at face value) recover if you attack them. There is a difference between holding someone responsible and beating them up over their bad choices. (Or perhaps this shows I didn't get as much out of this book as I should have.) Along the same lines, Dr. Black did not support his descriptions of antisocial behavior with the responses of the patients. He told us antisocials have no remorse, but I don't feel he really articulated that in telling the stories of follow-up interviews.<br />Overall, I felt that this was a pretty good book, and an important introduction to a disorder which has extreme ill-effects on society (poverty, crime, etc.). Hopefully, over the years, their can be more research to define a way to treat these individuals.	2002-08-03
US	42907319	R2T1WNYKC04YET	0064472531	249090897	Violet & Claire	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Block Is A Teenage Fairy	I read this book when I was sort of in a slump of mediocre reading. I really wanted something that would hold my attention and pique my senses. VIOLET&CLAIRE did just that. It is the story of two girls who seem very different yet have a similar essence, a quality which ties their fates together. Violet is dark and moody, ambitious and practical; Claire is light-hearted and delicate, innocent and dreamy. Violet dreams of escaping from the mundane life of a seventeen year-old which is her present lot, through making a movie. Claire has images of a secret race of faeries, who are gentle and kind and light as air. She writes poetry. Attracted to Claire's poetic visions and sympathetic to her ostracism from her peers, Violet asks Claire to star in her movie. <br />Things take a drastic turn, shifting dream to reality, when Violet and Claire attend a rock concert and get to go backstage and meet the band's sexy lead singer. Impressed by Violet, the two of them have a fling, and then he gives her his agent's number. Violet soon has a job working for the agent. She finds herself having less and less time for Claire, who pleads with her to come back to her so they can write poetry together. When a sadistic and sudden tragedy occurs, Violet finds that everything she has hoped for is falling into her hands. Yet if this is so, why is she so miserable. Claire, too, is falling apart, and has a fling with an older teacher at a poetry workshop. Ultimately, it is only through vice and destruction, while maintaining a genuine connection and a desire to save one another, that Claire and Violet can find their way back to one another and have ultimate peace.<br />This book starts out in a screenplay format with Violet giving a director's description of how a scene will open. From there, half of it is narrated in Violet's voice, the second half in Claire's. As always, Block proves herself to be glittering and mysterious in her prose. Yet this novel seems to have more plot than some of her others, such as THE HANGED MAN did. Parts are a bit confusing: you will find yourself wondering what really did happen the night Violet went alone to her agent's office to work late. There is a twisting, circular sort of scene where you are wondering did or didn't Claire's poetry instructor have a fling with Violet? The party scenes are dangerous yet great. As always, Block opens herself to the lifestyles of others.<br />VIOLET&CLAIRE is a must-read about friendship, pain, and the true meaning of success. And if you are a Block fan, my only question is why you haven't read this already?	2002-07-16
US	42907319	R1QO0WEJ57FY94	0156711427	842807821	A Passage to India	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A True Classic	I read this book when I was thirteen and fell in love with it. It is my favorite classic that I have read yet. It is a story of racial tensions in the steaming, exotic land of Chandrapore, India, where the British have a Cantonment with clubs, and the natives have villages with muddy roads and mosquitoes, and are expected to submit to the will of their dominators. Yet in the early 1900's, at the time Gandhi was still in South Africa, after two centuries of British rule, the native people, Hindus and Muslims alike, are growing tired.<br />When Adela, a young woman engaged to a British magistrate, and Mrs. Moore, the magistrate's mother, come to India to plan for the wedding, they are hopelessly enthralled and terribly naive. When Dr. Aziz, a young Muslim physician, meets Mrs. Moore in a mosque, he is charmed by her reverence in that she took off her shoes upon entrance. From here, a great friendship is formed. Adela, too, desires to befriend the natives, yet her efforts are regarded with contempt by both British and Indians, as both sides know and agree that it is impossible to be friends with both natives and Europeans. Only one has suceeded in that account, and his name is professor Fielding, known as Cyril by his students. A single, eccentric college professor, Fielding teaches Hindu and Muslim university students, while still mingling with British socialites. When he meets Adela, he too, scorns her aspirations. Thus, he also warns his Muslim friend, Dr. Aziz, not to bring her to the Marabar Caves.<br />It was supposed to be a very simple excursion to one of the most beautiful sites in local India. Aziz had not really meant it about taking Adela and Mrs. Moore there--had thrown it out as a casual suggestion--but being British, Adela and Mrs. Moore take him at his word. The trip turns to disaster, though, when a mysterious figure tries to rape Adela in one of the caves. Since no one has seen the attacker and no one can account for Aziz's whereabouts, he is soon blamed. In a climax that is chilling yet realistic, A Passage To India shows us what the best and worst of human nature and human prejudice can lead us to.	2002-07-10
US	42907319	R1Y2DM17Q3OH8W	0805067973	383368219	Love, Sara	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Must-Read For Anyone Who Has Heard of Foster-Care	Sara Reichart is a sixteen year-old girl who looks forward to entering her junior year with her best friend, Dulcie, a Korean adoptee. However, Sara is no ordinary girl in that she is living with a foster mother, who is a widow with a twelve year-old daughter and a six year-old son. Sara was taken out of her parents' custody when it was found out that her father was sexually abusing her. \\"I only did it to save Suzy (her younger sister)\\" she says. Sara has been in many foster homes before, and for some reason or another, it has not worked out. She has also been in hospitals for struggling with depression, suicide attempts, and self-mutilation. Clearly, she is a very confused and very misunderstood young teenager, who has to deal with flashbacks (even when a boy just touches her) and feelings of anger and rejection, and the difficulty of being the odd girl in a close family, in addition to normal teenage angst.<br />When Dulcie falls in love with John, his traditional parents don't approve of her Korean nationality, while her parents don't want her to be dating a sophisticated, popular boy. Even Sara, herself, is originally suspicious, but soon grows to care for John and his friends. When Dulcie finds out that she is pregnant, she feels at a loss because her parents will be furious, and John's have thrown him out of the house already. Feeling abandoned and alone, they make a suicide pact to die together, and Sara, not wanting to be alone, decides to join. I won't spoil the ending other than to say that it is both hopeful, yet painfully realistic.<br />This book takes the form of back-and-forth e-mails, not-quite-fictional stories Sara writes for her English class, and journal entries, which Sara pens to the French artist Toulouse-Lautrec, which sounds far-fetched, but when you realize that he painted the degraded women of France's underground, you can see the connection. The book is well-written and you can really empathize and feel close to Sara, who seems so talented and gifted, yet so horribly exploited. My biggest disappointment with this book was that the subject of incest was dealt with so subtly. The story focused more on Sara's present with Dulcie, rather than her past at home. There are only a couple of phone calls to her home which reveal the dynamics of Sara's family. Still, I appreciate the author's showing the painful aftermath of sexual abuse and a Social Services removal of a child, unlike most pat \\"everything will work out\\" portrayals. I give the author so much credit for tackling this ambitious and sensitive subject! \\"Love, Sara\\" is a must-read.	2002-07-05
US	42907319	R2MNZWU5867FO1	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	2	10	17	N	N	Not That Beautiful	This is the story of mathematical genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash. It traces his origins in the small town of Bluefield, West Virginia, to his education at Carnegie Tech., to graduate work at Princeton, all the way to winning the Nobel Prize in economics for his work in the area of game theory. Yet the path to fortune is not so easy, by the time he was in his thirties, Nash was battling severe schizophrenia, which forced him to be involuntarily hospitalized five times, and get divorced from his loving and devoted wife Alicia. In the end, it is only with the support of the mathematics community at Princeton, and the fierce loyalty of his wife, Alicia, that he seemed able to gain control of his brilliant yet ailing mind and return to the world of mathematics.<br />Do not be deceived. This books is positively nothing like the movie. Director Ron Howard elected to leave out various elements of John Nash's life including: his extreme and unpitiable arrogance, his bisexuality, his arrest for indecent exposure, the mistress and son whom he abandoned, his divorce from his wife, his frequent flights to Europe, and his own son's schizophrenia. Frankly, I did not enjoy reading this book very much because a lot of it was dry and boring and hard to understand. It dealt with a lot of mathematics which I had difficulty figuring out, and I still have difficulty pin-pointing exactly what John Nash won the prize for. This book was very technical and the first one hundred and sixty pages simply described campuses and the lives of other mathematicians, whom Nash may have walked by once in his life. The parts about his schizophrenia were more interesting, but the book was hard to get engaged in. I also found it annoying the way it seemed as though virtually every other sentence had a footnote after it. You almost felt like screaming at the author, &quot;Did you write any of this yourself!&quot; It was a book that was written in a very scholarly way, but it was very inaccessible to alay-person. It was very long and spent more time going over facts and figures, than people's actual personalities. The ending was very sweet and poignant, but it did not make up for the exhaustion of reading this book.<br />If you are interested in math and economics, then this is a book worth checking out. However, if you just want to read something that ties into the movie, don't bother, you will only end up frustrated.	2002-07-03
US	42907319	R3DL12XUATL763	0679810307	697653099	Shabanu: Daughter of the Wind (Border Trilogy (Pb))	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Eye-Opening	Shabanu is an eleven year-old girl living in Pakistan's Cholistan Desert between the provinces of Baluchistan and the Punjab. She lives with her father, a camel-herd, her mother, thirteen year-old sister, Phulan, grandfather, and aunt, and two cousins. Shabanu is a girl who loves the peacefulness of the desert and the freedoms that she has in being the youngest in a family with two daughters. However, she knows that as she approaches a marriageable age, this freedom will be taken away and the emphasis on housework and obedience will increase. When plans for her older sister's wedding to a cousin in a local setting are ruined by a bloodthirsty feud with a powerful landlord, Shabanu is given as a peace-offering to his older brother to live on his wealthy estate. How can Shabanu give up everything that she cherishes and takes pride in, to be the youngest wife of a marry a man with three wives of higher social standing? Yet her only other course of option would be to flee her family and live as a recluse and outlaw, forever in fear of being hunted down.<br />I thought this was a very informative book! Ms. Staples, the author, gives us a very generous taste of various aspects of Pakistani/Islamic culture. We see how Shabanu is treated by her parents, how visitors treat one another, and the various customs and hospitalities of the different social castes in Pakistan. We get to experience various rituals such as an Islamic wedding, a pilgrimage to a shrine for brides-to-be, and an authentic bazaar. Anecdotes and secondary encounters with characters (such as with the Bugti tribesmen who are hunting for one man's daughter who eloped) provide us with glimpses of how different people live, as well as making up the lore of desert tribesmen. The characters are well-developed and the plot is suspenseful and manipulates itself well around the culture of Pakistan, and the obstacles which tradition serves to one girl. This book was an eye-opener for me, and left me desperate for more. The sequel is ten times better!!	2002-06-30
US	42907319	RJU3055RJPW7I	0439324599	690123527	Cut	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good Story, But Lacks Information	This was the first book I have read on the subject of self-mutilation, and I think it aptly describes this phenomenon which mystifies professionals to this day. Callie is a fifteen year-old girl receiving treatment at a psychiatric treatment center, Sea Pines, spitefully known as \\"Sick Minds\\". Resistant to treatment and sharing any of her secrets, Callie refuses to speak at all. As she makes her way through treatment, we learn a great deal about her peers and routines at Sea Pines, as well as the staff and treatment policies. Even when Callie is threatened with expulsion from the program due to non-compliance, she refuses to divulge what is troubling her. It is only when she cuts herself so deeply that she fears she will bleed to death, that she calls on a staff member for help, and then decides to confide in her therapist. We soon learn that the roots of Callie's problem lie in feelings of guilt and responsibility toward her younger brother, as well as a distant father. The ending leaves us with the promise that Callie will battle and overcome her behavior.<br />This book was pretty good. It did a very good job of describing what life is like in a psychiatric ward and how the various illness populations relate to each other (ie: drug-addicts, anorexics, overeaters, and self-injurers). Ironically, I found that this book had the opposite problem of many others: while we met many interesting and thought-provoking characters: the staff and the girls on the ward, I found Callie to be rather flat and uninteresting. I also agree with other reviewers that the plot-line was a little too cliche--a girl refusing to speak about her problems and then being won over by a therapist or trusted other. I also do not feel that this book really explained why people like Callie self-mutilate, in fact, it did not really deal with the behavior much at all. The ending, although hopeful, was a bit unrealistic. I do not think a psychiatric hospital would really act so kindly in such a situation. In general, I would say this is a pretty good story, and a good reference for life in a psych. ward, but does not give a lot of depth into the issue of self-mutilation.	2002-06-29
US	42907319	R3R3SODW8P6VLT	0446359408	827868868	Sybil: The true and extraordinary story of a woman possessed by sixteen separate personalities	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Superb--But Is It Real?	SYBIL is the incredible biography of a woman, Sybil Isabel Dorsett, who suffered from sixteen different personalities all inhabiting one body (known as multiple-personality disorder). Ever since she had been a little girl, she always felt that time was funny: people would tell her she had done things that she couldn't remember doing, or would find that things around her seemed unfamiliar, and had gaps in her memory. Ever since she was a little girl, she had been petrified of her mother, and sustained many mysterious injuries. When she is sent home from college due to extreme anxiety, depression, and poor health, Sybil is sent to see a psychiatrist. Dr. Wilbur offers the promise of a restoration of mental health and happiness, yet when Sybil's mother breaks off treatment, Sybil feels hopelessly rejected. After her mother's death, Sybil determines to save up enough money and seek out Dr. Wilbur's help. It is during the process of psychoanalysis, that Sybil incidentally discovers that her body is inhabited by Peggy Lou, Peggy Anne, Marie Antoinette Scharleau, Vanessa, Marcia, Mary Lou Baldwin, Clara, Sybil Anne Dorsette, and many others--including two men. All of these personalities are different identifications with the traumatic events of Sybil's life, and each one of them takes over when Sybil blacks out, so that she cannot remember what occurred when they inhabited her body. Each of them has their own different behaviors and mannerisms, and each of them carries memories of various sexual and physical torture at the hands of Sybil's schizophrenic mother and emotionally distant father. It is only under Dr. Wilbur's supervision and affectionate care that Sybil can recover.<br />This book was incredible! I love the way it is written like a thriller, starting out when one of Sybil's personalities takes her on a trip to New York, and she arrives, unable to remember where she is. One can really empathize with Sybil because she seems like such a bright and gifted person, but she is so incredibly atrophied by abuse. Unfortunately, I ruined this book for myself when I was half-way through it, by reading some articles which claimed that Sybil was a fraud. While I personally think that Multiple-Personality Disorders do exist (although I am sure that they have been propagandized and over-diagnosed), I wish the book had done more to prove the veracity of this case. A documentary that is soon to come out, claims that a lot of the abuse may not have occurred, and that she was not a genuine multiple-personality. I wonder if this was simply the work of cynics, as this story has been around for so long, and seems realistic and non-outrageous enough to be true. Well worth reading! Enlightening and transforming!!	2002-06-28
US	42907319	RCA68RCKWL5TK	0679746048	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Life In Crisis	If you have ever been depressed, institutionalized, had a bad day, or have lived on this planet, this book is a must-read for you! When Susanna Kaysen was eighteen years-old, a psychiatrist sent her to McLean Hospital after learning that she had once attempted suicide, and having an interview that lasted roughly fifteen minutes. From there, it was a two-and-a-half year odyssey out of depression and confusion, and back to mental health. <br />Along the way, Kaysen met many colorful characters, some eccentric yet sane (the patients), some not-quite sane at all (the staff). In detail, Kaysen describes the antics of Lisa: a ribald and provocative sociopath, the illness of Polly: a depressive who lit herself on fire, and the plight of Daisy: a bulimic who is a victim of incest. Kaysen herself is diagnosed with borderline personality disorder. In this book, time has little meaning, and Kaysen often flashes back-and-forth between her being in the hospital, before she went in, and after, with little sequence at all. It reads sort of like an out-of-order diary.<br />This book is so skillfully written. When you first open it up, there are summaries seemingly copied right out of Kaysen's hospital records. The story itself, is written poignantly with compassion for both captors and captives. Kaysen aptly captures both the Hell and the hilarity of being in a mental institution with realism, and how somehow, in spite of it all, she manages to get better and move back on-track. Another thing that is a relief about it, is that Kaysen does not blame her problems on her family or some great trauma or even being misunderstood. It was simply that she didn't understand. Yet did that really merit her being locked up?<br />I read this book two years ago, and when I first did, I was wishing it would be more dramatic, I found parts of it dull. However, it is the type of book which you want to hang onto and keep coming back to, because it is so informative and really is ground-breaking. While Susanna Kaysen points out the flaws of her being diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, and the stigma towards psychiatric hospital patients, she does not write with hatred, rather with empathy. There really is no villain in this book, except for life itself. The movie, which I liked, is completely different from the book, more dramatic. I recommend it, but it cannot substitute for the book. Kaysen writes with great insight about the courage to survive one's difficulties and the courage to heal.	2002-06-20
US	42907319	R3SKSCA58NVGYM	0064408183	492869537	Weetzie Bat (10th Anniversary Edition)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Fair Debut... But Doesn't Compare With Later Works	Alternative author Francesca Lia Block made her way to the center of the literary stage in 1989 with the first of her quintet of books, DANGEROUS ANGELS: THE WEETZIE BAT BOOKS. The first book, WEETZIE BAT, tells the story of a punk eighteen year-old from \\"Shangri-L.A.\\" named Weetzie. She is skinny and pale with a bleach-blonde flat-top and it is not unusual for her to be dressed in a 1950's prom dress with combat boots. Weetzie Bat feels lost at high school, where her peers are either engrossed in their studies or obsessed with cliques. They are hopelessly oblivious to the small pleasures of life: cheese-been-pastrami-and-hot-dog burritos, plastic palm trees, and punk music. Except Dirk. Weetzie and Dirk ride around L.A. in Dirk's flashy red Pontiac named Jerry with Weetzie's Dog, Slinkster-Dog. Then, Dirk confesses to Weetzie that he is gay. Her response is simply, \\"Now we can go duck-hunting together!\\"<br />Weetzie and Dirk's romantic life is something of a flop at first, as they fall for all sorts of shady characters. Then, they decide to visit Dirk's grandmother, who lives in a beautiful house that looks like it comes from a confectionary shop. It is only when she gives Weetzie a small bottle-shaped lamp that everything changes. When Weetzie rubs the lamp, a genie appears and offers her 3 wishes. Weetzie wishes for a duck for her, a duck for Dirk, and a house like Dirk's grandmother's.<br />Almost immediately, Dirk calls and tells Weetzie that his aged grandmother has died and left the house to them. Soon after that, he informs her that he has met a Duck, who is incidentally named \\"Duck\\". Weetzie takes up a job waitressing at a cafe, where she meets a Chinese woman named Ping-Chong, her Jamaican husband, Valentine Jah-Love, and their small toast-colored son, Valentine Ping-Chong. She also meets an independent filmmaker named My Secret Agent Lover Man. The two fall instantly in love.<br />Soon, however, Weetzie Bat wants to have a baby. When My Secret Agent LoverMan will not oblige, Weetzie has group-sex with Duck and Dirk. Angry, My Secret Agent Lover Man vanishes. Weetzie gives birth to a beautiful little girl, who she names Cherokee Bat. Soon, My Secret Agent Lover Man returns. However, he falls mysteriously ill. When a Lanka Witch named Vixanne appears at the door, the truth comes out: My Secret Agent Lover Man cheated on Weetzie while he was away and is now the father of a Witch Baby, whom Vixanne is now surrendering to him. At first, Weetzie is understandably angry, but who can stay angry at the sight of a little witch baby with purple eyes and curled toes? Thus, Weetzie's family is assembled. Together, they must battle the dangerous yet beautiful world of love, lust, emotions, the ephemeral, of drugs, suicide, abuse, and AIDS and art, to make their way at least happily--if not ever after.<br />I liked WEETZIE BAT, but it is not nearly as good as some of Francesca Lia Block's later novels. Ms. Block's writing style over the years, and she has begun to tackle deeper issues with more seriousness. This was a very short book that focused more on flashy description rather than characters and depth. The plot covers an amazingly large amount of ground and topical issues for such a short book, but the characters are not fully developed and overshadowed by glitzy scenery. Overall, this was a fair debut, but I am happy that Francesca Lia Block has expanded her writing style beyond the breezy and light Weetzie Bat. If you did not like this book, don't give up on Block yet!!!<BR>Try THE HANGED MAN, VIOLET AND CLAIRE, or I WAS A TEENAGE FAIRY, they are superb!!!	2002-06-10
US	42907319	R1SCTXBOI7EQNI	0064407985	812781941	The Black Book: Diary of a Teenage Stud, Vol. I: Girls, Girls, Girls	Books	4	6	7	N	N	WHAT A STUD!	Imagine coming back to your old high school as a senior, after two years, and finding that your classmates say you haven't changed? Imagine finding out that because you got kicked out of boarding school, you have repeat junior year while your friends get promoted. The added humiliation is that your little sister is a genius (of course) and is now a senior as well. Worst of all, your mother is a sex therapist with her own radio talk show and best-selling book... P>All of these things and much, much more are recounted to us via the entries of the infamous BLACK BOOK: DIARY OF A TEENAGE STUD. We watch him navigate through his return to high school with gusto, his reinitiation into his Florida town's social scene, and sort out the mysterious world of relationships with girls, both real and ideal. Jonah's entries are short, witty, and straddle the line between reality and fantasy. Take for instance, the elusive Sophie, the dream girlfriend that Jonah left behind at his boarding school in Maine, yet seems to keep reappearing right before him. His friends Thorne and Posie try to bolster his spirits, yet also wish they could figure out the events surrounding Jonah's expulsion from his boarding school, and the love of his life who does not seem real. Honey, his younger sister kid-genius, offers wry cynicism in her critiques of Jonah's situation and attempts to help him, as well as scorning of their mother. At the end of the book, we still don't know why Jonah has been expelled, if he will rejoin his senor class, who Sophie is, and what will become of his relationship with Posie. On top of that, Jonah suffers a severe swimming accident, and the reader is left in anguished suspense.<br />This book is 240 pages long but I read it in two days! It is fast, witty, and engaging. It successfully reveals the inner-workings of the male teenager's psyche, showing both hormonal lust, visible in his excitement over having cyber-sex with an anonymous on-line admirer, and surprising sensitivity, as he struggles to understand his friendship/love for Posie and rages over her cheating boyfriend. The daydreams are hysterical, as are Jonah's reflections on those around (i.e. his principle \\"who may not exist\\" and his therapist--who looks like the muppet Grover always tortures on Sesame Street.) The characters are great, especially the females such as Posie and Honey, who come off as strong and assertive, without trying to force the point of female autonomy. The book is just plain, hysterical fun. I don't like to rely on cliches, but this book really does leave you thirsting for more. I read it two weeks ago, and can't stop thinking about it. I can't wait to read Volume II.	2002-05-09
US	42907319	R60KSQWPWJ8B5	0671775421	704438889	Dogrun	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Bye-Bye Bridget Jones!	This book is the hip response to Bridget Jones. Gritty, dark, and wry where many \\"girly books\\" get flighty, it is the anti-Bridget Jones. Mary Bellanova is a twenty-nine year-old writer wannabe who leads a \\"successful life\\". This means that she is not addicted to drugs, does not have any children (whom she could not support), and does not put up with getting beaten up by the men she dates, and is essentially a failure at everything else. When her live-in, unemployed boy-friend, Primo Schultz, dies unexpectedly, leaving only his dog behind, Mary is lead on a surprising quest to unravel his mysterious past. It turns out that her boy-friend was not always the dull, lousy, loser of a lover she had always seen him to be. Meanwhile Mary is helped along by and distracted by many colorful characters including her best friend, Zoe; Howard, the Tattoo-Man; and her mysterious once-upstairs-neighbor, Joey. <br />Things gravitate from bad to worse as Mary loses her job, realizes that Primo has been cheating on her with many different women, and watches Zoe fall in love with a snobby KINKO's manager. She is also distressed to learn that many of Primo's ex-lovers remember his work as a gifted painter and that he even got a book published! Most frightening of all, Mary has been roped into joining a women's rock band with Primo's Cambodian, insane ex-wife, who formerly worked as a stripper. How will Mary ever manage to navigate her way out of this mess and get Primo out of her life? Why couldn't he have been this exciting when he was alive?<br />This book was terrific! Arthur Nersesian creates a hillarious tale with a hip New York background. Mary is great as a main character, and the twists-and-turns of the plot leave the ending unpredictable. I was a little concerned in the middle, that the book was becoming a little bit flighty and traditional girl-fiction, especially when she and Zoe started frequently going to the gym and Mary seemed to have five men interested in her at once.However, the story stabilized itself and remained mature in that lazy, slackerish way that made its sarcasm and ironic wit perfect. The thing I loved most about Nersesian's writing is that he is so bright that he does not feel compelled to write in a supercilious and \\"classical\\" manner. He will use street-slang and crass analogies in one setence and SAT vocabulary in another. Although the book is of a fair-size, you can get through a large number of pages at a time.<br />DOGRUN is the book to read when you are getting sick of traditional women's novels about thirty-something respectable women who cannot find boyfriends. It is tough and dark, yet never cruel or disgusting. I definitely look forward to reading much more of Arthur Nersesian's work.	2002-04-05
US	42907319	R12JFWT959N8H5	0679781382	999618850	Asylum	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Anatomy of Obsession	This is a story told from the outside: an observing psychiatrist narrates a colleague's wife's adulterous infatuation with a criminally insane inmate named Edgar Stark on the grounds of a forensic asylum. Edgar Stark, a brilliant and murderous sculptor, seduces Stella Raphael and manipulates her into unwittingly assisting his escape. Unfortunately, his departure does nothing to sever the ties of her sexual attraction to him, nor does it enlighten her to the dangers of associating with such a man. When a liaison of Stark's tells Stella that Edgar is waiting for her in London, she abandons her ten year-old son and husband, Max and runs away to meet him.<br />Unfortunately, Edgar Stark's madness consumes him until he is suspicious of all those who surround him. This includes Stella. Left no option, she flees with his friend and abettor Nick, to his nearby flat. However, this is only temporary, Stella tells herself, for she will return to her lover when his temper has subdued and he no longer threatens to murder her. She will help him get well. True to her word, she returns to Edgar's flat only to find police investigators waiting there. Thus, she is returned to her waiting husband.<br />Unfortunately though, her psychiatrist-husband is unable to remain objective and analytical in the case of his wife. He regards her with bitterness and contempt, blaming her for his dismissal at the hospital and other misfortunes. A move to Wales only worsens the situation as Stella becomes more isolated and depressed, fantasizing about her lover. In the end, Peter Cleb, the aloof yet ever-observant narrator tries to intervene. However, the cyclone of seduction and deception is whirling at full-speed and all those involved are swept away...<br />This acclaimed novel by Patrick McGrath frustrates me and here's why: the first half of the book is unconvincing enough to detract from the four-star rating which I feel the second half of the book utterly deserves. There just was not enough passion for me. The love affair was told in a completely emotionless way. You could not feel anything which justified the compelling attraction of the affair. I really could not understand Stella's obsession or Stark's madness. There was not enough suspense or terror for me. I guess I was hoping for more of a thriller than an analytical novel. The scenery is quite delicious and romantic though, and McGrath's description of the hospital grounds is marvelous.<br />The second half of this book was, as I said, brilliant. Although it was quite a bit of analytical study rather than thriller, it was both intriguing and intense to watch Stella and Max alienate each other in their marriage, and the great tragedy that needlessly occurs. I won't spoil the ending but there were many twists along the way, including but not limited to, Peter Cleb's own eerie quality.<br />Patrick McGrath is a good writer but it is hard to fit him into a specific category.	2002-03-11
US	42907319	R1E4U89NFHWGCW	043909013X	104624821	Kerosene (Push Fiction)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Page-turner about Pyromania	Wow! I picked up this book in a store out of curiosity when I saw the title. And I certainly am glad that I did. Young author Chris Wooding writes a riveting tale for Scholastic's new label of teenage fiction known as \\"PUSH\\".<br />Set in modern-day London, Cal is a lonely teenager who feels as though he has hit rock-bottom. He is the mistake which his parents will not let deter them from their careers; his shyness leaves him invisible to his classmates (on good days); and he knows it is only a matter of time before his only friend, Joel, leaves him to hang around with his cool, clubbing buddies. All he has, or thinks, he has is the beauty--the beauty which comes from setting fires and watching the bright blaze emitted from the flames. <br />Ben Deerborn is an investigator of arson, who is called to the scenes of two fires which have been suspiciously set in deserted locations. However, he finds himself feeling conflicted between the need to perform his job and the identification he finds in this troubled youth to his own son, Carl, who died along with Ben's wife in a car accident when Ben was behind the wheel.<br />What sends Cal over-the-edge is a prank started by two spiteful girls seeking revenge for minor, unintended upsets, using the guise of true love for someone who cannot help but believe it is real. Cal is also spooked when Joel tells him that he has been dealing in marijuana and has come into debt with some shady and malevolent characters. He needs to get them their money or risk dire consequences. Under these circumstances, Cal plots away to keep his life from going up in flames around him: he will beat life to the chase. Cal knows there is something wrong with him, that he is a teen in trouble, yet how can he tear himself away from the confounding yet beautiful peace he finds in the blazes of the fire?<br />With titles such as \\"trigger\\" \\"fuel\\" and \\"conflagration\\" in respective order, author Wooding knows how to build up suspense. He is a master of description, particularly in the scenes about fire. The novel is well-plotted in that veiled hints about what Cal is planning to do are dropped before he actually does it. All of the characters are incredibly well-developed and easy to empathize with, and the various viewpoints of the story in third-person narratives add a complementary dimension to the story. Although I found the ending to be a bit unrealistic, and did not quite understand how Joel was so aware of his friend's obsession with fire, I still found this to be a suspenseful, fast-paced read, elucidating the dangers of ignoring a teenager's desperate cry for help. I look forward to exploring much more of Chris Wooding's work as well as other \\"PUSH\\" authors.	2002-03-03
US	42907319	R7OJOOR321QRP	1573226963	295334796	The Last Time I Wore A Dress	Books	4	7	7	N	N	She Didn't Want To Be "Just a Girl"	Ever since she had been little, Daphne Scholinski had always had a somewhat masculine appearance, causing her to suffer the embarrassing fate of being mistaken for a boy in supermarkets, kicked out of public ladies' rooms, and even skated in pairs with unwitting females. When her parents separated, when she was thirteen, and her mother left her in the care of her physically abusive father, Daphne also took on the masculine role of protector for her \\"girly\\" younger sister, Jean. As she grew older, she was sent to a therapist because she was flunking out of school, exhibiting anti-social behavior, and had joined a gang. When her behavior persisted, at the age of fifteen, she was sent to the first of a series of three mental hospitals where she would stay until she was eighteen, being treated for depression, substance abuse, an anti-social personality, and above all a mysterious Gender-Identity Disorder, costing more than one million dollars in insurance.<br />The book starts out with Daphne's father driving her to the first hospital in Chicago, and her casually asking him not to send her. After she arrives, the narrative is a mixture of past and present, as Daphne talks about rebelling against her father and the consequences of that (being whipped with his belt), or how she would spend time at her mother's apartment (performing sexual acts for Frank, a man with a knee-holster who said he was a hit-man.) We hear about those who helped Daphne, such as a kind psychology intern at one hospital, and her third grade teacher; and those who hurt her, such as the best friends who pinned her down and smeared her face with lipstick, and the boys who cruelly raped her during her third and final hospitalization, knowing that because of her diagnosis of a Gender-Identity Disorder, she would never report them. The point Daphne Scholinski seems to be trying to make is that how was anyone else's business whether she chose to behave as a male or a female? No matter what happened, the failing grades, the drug use, the physical abuse--the question people kept asking was \\"Why won't she wear a dress?\\" \\"Why doesn't she want to be a girl?\\" As an outsider reading about her experiences, I would have to remark, \\"How could she want to be a girl, given all the abuse she endured because she was female?\\"<br />In the end, Daphne Scholinski has made great strides at trying to create a life for herself in spite of her traumatic past. She is an artist, has spoken at the UN conference on Women at Beijing, China, and has been on countless television programs. This book was like a techni-color version of \\"Girl, Interrupted\\", filling us in on the author's day-to-day experience in a mental hospital, and her past. It is difficult to write-off Scholinski's trials as whining or self-pitying, as she describes the abuse she endured, physically--at the hands of her father; sexually, five times--twice while she was hospitalized--and emotionally, with such restrictions as being forbidden to have even a friendship with a female patient, because the hospital feared that this might lead to homosexuality. This isn't any ordinary sort of grief. A really neat thing at the end of the book is that if you go to the back where the author's notes are, Daphne Scholinski has an AOL e-mail address where you can contact her and she will write back! Although I can't say this is a book to enjoy, it is definitely one of the more profound books I have read.	2002-01-27
US	42907319	R29CA3NBZFRD8K	0060955775	622943913	Veronika Decides to Die	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A "Life Is Beautiful" Account Any Cynic Can Enjoy!	Paulo Coelho weaves us the story of your quintessential twenty-four year-old European woman who decides to kill herself when she realizes that her life is insignificant and that she will just keep getting older and uglier and people will betray her and her life will just go downhill. She decides to cut her losses and kill herself with an overdose of tranquilizers. She wakes up on the medical floor of a renowned and intimidating mental hospital known as Villette. Once she is conscious, Veronika is informed by doctors that she has done irreversible damage to her heart and will die within a week; this knowledge reinforced by recurrent episodes of cardiac arrest. Upon hearing this knowledge, Veronika is forced to come to terms with the numbness and oblivion with which she has lived and how she can make the most of the life she has left.<br />The book has many colorful characters and its setting in Slovenia throws in some historical intrigue. There is Zedka, a housewife undergoing insulin-shock treatments for depression over a lost love whom she misses, but doesn't really understand why. There is Eduard, a handsome young schizophrenic who unwittingly becomes the impetus for Veronika's spiritual and sexual reawakening. Lastly, there is Dr. Igor, the humorous and metaphysical head psychiatrist, who will stop at nothing and no one to complete his thesis on \\"Vitriol\\" (his name for the inner poisoning which creates insanity in his patients--or in a simpler term \\"bitterness\\". Together, these colorful characters pave a path for Veronika's recovery, culminating in a truly fabulous and suspenseful ending which can't possibly be imagined beforehand.<br />Although the translation is a bit awkward in parts, the book is very well-written. Coelho shows insight into a female character without degradation. It is a very fast read and fairly easy to understand in spite of its highly philosophical content. Hints of Coelho's own life shine through in his portrayal of a society's great disdain for artists. Humor adds an ironic twist to the story, particularly in the beginning, where Paulo Coelho himself makes an appearance in his own story. There is a richness and lightness about the topic in spite of its ominous note of death, and Coelho speaks like a modern Emerson. Veronika's cynicism contrasts perfectly with her later sense of enlightenment and rebirth.	2002-01-27
US	42907319	R2ZRGV1PP4UXHG	0064408329	687112129	The Hanged Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Dark and Passionate Tale of Veiled Emotions	This is a brooding yet magical tale of destruction and recovery, another masterpiece from teen-angst author Francesca Lia Block. Seventeen year-old Laurel knows that when her father dies of the cancer which plagues his body, the sexual abuse that her mother deliberately remained oblivious to, will end. What she doesn't realize is that the pain, manifested in the form of anorexia, will linger on. Encouraged by her self-abusing best friend, Claudia and the repulsion she has for her mother's docile life, Laurel thrusts herself into the dangerous California party-scene with all of its excitement and glittering dangers.<BR>At the same time, she is involved in a series of sexual encounters with her mysterious demon-lover, Jack, who is always by her side. Gradually, with this ominous yet gentle relationship, she is forced to confront her painful past which resulted in conflicting feelings about her father, a determination to be thin enough to disappear, and an aborted pregnancy. It is only when she shatters the walls of her frigid exterior that she is able to begin to heal.<br />This is a fabulous novel. It is a glittering and eerie tale of the dangers of L.A.'s glamorous party-scene, where life is often on a lane that is moving way too fast. The story is light and wispy 'as a veil' and it may confuse people. There is no concrete truth or understanding of this story and it is highly interpretive. It is also fairly short, which may attract the reluctant reader. One will appreciate the strength depicted in Laurel despite her pain, Jack's perverse kindness, and the boldness of the best friend, Claudia. This is another treasure from Francesca Lia Block. &quot;The Hanged Man&quot; throws an audacious, new light on the controversial topics of sexual abuse, abortion, and anorexia, with a reverence for the teenage love of experimentation and the California landscape.	2001-11-22
US	42907319	R3K2RU34LKBG3I	1569471797	417696766	Moghul Buffet (Soho Crime)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If It Does Not Kill You, Will Ultimately Entertain You	Moghul Buffet is like a cacophonous parade with an immaculate combination of sights, sounds, and touches which will leave you thrilled to hysteria from its contrast of stern tradition and too many quirky assumptions. Meet Micky Malone--overweight, pale, kind of a wimp, but he's a nice wimp, who goes to Peshawar, the backland of Pakistan's North-West-Frontier Province to forge a deal for West-Fab Industries in Maryland. After a run-in with the frightening Walid Khan, the mafia-like ringleader of Peshawar, Micky begins to fear for his life. After he disappears and a message is left smeared in blood on a hotel ice machine, authorities suspect the worst: an international relations crisis. This brings in our dashing hero from Islamabad, Iqbal, who has little patience for the chauvinism and rustic nature of provincial Peshawar, and whose wife and her nosy journalist-friend, Lily, are ready for some action. As bodies begin turning up everywhere, it appears to be more action than hoped for. Yet what do a Westerner, an Afghan attorney, a low-class banker, and Indian film star, a fundamentalist newspaper-publisher, and a television broadcasting, soccer-hating maulana all have in common? Where do Mara Blake, a Western woman divorced from a Pakistani; Fatima, the sex-slave of the [...] maulana, Walid Khan's idealistic nephew, and a powerful Pakistani feminist fit in? What to do when the victim's sister, Julia, also a journalist, shows up in Peshawar demanding answers? And why are all the refugees along the Afghan border suddenly building a latrine for their down-trodden women? All this is dropped in the lap of Iqbal, while the story is chronicled as the humorous and eye-opening commentary of an <BR>undisclosed narrator, giving the private thoughts and deeds of each character, as well as defining what a \\"Belly-Gram\\" is. Author Benard gives us her own subtle yet dead-on message of real feminism and a new understanding of the Wild, Wild West, or shall we say, North-West Frontier Province.	2001-10-09
US	42907319	R220FBES5HF0YI	1569471797	417696766	Moghul Buffet (Soho Crime)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If It Does Not Kill You, Will Ultimately Entertain You	Moghul Buffet is like a cacophonous parade with an immaculate combination of sights, sounds, and touches which will leave you thrilled to hysteria from its contrast of stern tradition and too many quirky assumptions. Meet Micky Malone--overweight, pale, kind of a wimp, but he's a nice wimp, who goes to Peshawar, the backland of Pakistan's North-West-Frontier Province to forge a deal for West-Fab Industries in Maryland. After a run-in with the frightening Walid Khan, the mafia-like ringleader of Peshawar, Micky begins to fear for his life. After he disappears and a message is left smeared in blood on a hotel ice machine, authorities suspect the worst: an international relations crisis. This brings in our dashing hero from Islamabad, Iqbal, who has little patience for the chauvinism and rustic nature of provincial Peshawar, and whose wife and her nosy journalist-friend, Lily, are ready for some action. As bodies begin turning up everywhere, it appears to be more action than hoped for. Yet what do a Westerner, an Afghan attorney, a low-class banker, and Indian film star, a fundamentalist newspaper-publisher, and a television broadcasting, soccer-hating maulana all have in common? Where do Mara Blake, a Western woman divorced from a Pakistani; Fatima, the sex-slave of the [...] maulana, Walid Khan's idealistic nephew, and a powerful Pakistani feminist fit in? What to do when the victim's sister, Julia, also a journalist, shows up in Peshawar demanding answers? And why are all the refugees along the Afghan border suddenly building a latrine for their down-trodden women? All this is dropped in the lap of Iqbal, while the story is chronicled as the humorous and eye-opening commentary of an <BR>undisclosed narrator, giving the private thoughts and deeds of each character, as well as defining what a \\"Belly-Gram\\" is. Author Benard gives us her own subtle yet dead-on message of real feminism and a new understanding of the Wild, Wild West, or shall we say, North-West Frontier Province.	2001-10-09
US	42907319	R1LTDLXKI1ZVH5	0671027344	888030084	The Perks of Being a Wallflower	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Feeling Infinite	Stephen Chbosky's debut novel tells the story of Charlie, who, after the suicide of his best friend in eighth grade, is a fifteen year-old high school student living on \\"the fringes of life\\". Charlie is not popular with his peers yet he is not really ostracized: he is a wallflower, 'he sees things, understands, and keeps quiet about them.' Yet there are many things Charlie would rather not keep quiet about, such as the time he sees his sister's boyfriend hit her, witnesses a football quarterback rape his girlfriend, the terminated pregnancy of his older sister, and the truth about his aunt Helen.    As Charlie navigates his way through the corridors of formidable high school, we learn about the colorful characters who influence his life: there is Bill, the first-year English teacher who gives Charlie special books to read and write essays about; Mary Elizabeth, a dominating, opinionated senior with tattoos and a pierced belly button; Patrick, the light-hearted jokester, who educates Charlie about girls, while keeping a secret of his own, and of course, Sam, Patrick's step-sister, whose beauty for Charlie goes beyond her brown hair and entrancing green eyes. In the midst of this motley crew, Charlie begins his transforming journey from adolescence to adulthood, innocence to intensity, with the first experiences of smoking pot, drinking, parties, and \\"Rocky Horror Picture Show\\". Meanwhile, all of this is relayed to us in the form of letters to a not quite anonymous person whom Charlie loyally writes to several times a month.    \\"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\\" is like modern-day synonym for \\"The Catcher in the Rye\\", excluding the cynicism and abounding in the sensitivity of teen idol Holden Caulfield. Through Charlie, we glimpse a firsthand view of self-examination and sentiments of genuine caring, devoid of the trite negativity and disinterest so characteristic of portrayals of adolescents. There were times when the plot seemed a little stale or hard to follow. I also felt that the author was too willing to accept drinking, drugs, and sex in excessive quantities as normal \\"coming-of-age behavior\\". There did not seem to be a lot of consequences to the mistakes the characters made. Yet the various matters of subjects are handled adroitly, and the ending is a superb surprise which will shock you as it is unexpected and seemingly unfathomable.    In Charlie, we find a young boy swept up into the torrents of the culture around him while desperately looking for someone to guide him on a straight path to maturity. Almost everyone can identify with being a Wallflower at times. \\"The Perks of Being a Wallflower\\" is for those on a quest to feel alive when they aren't quite sure what they are living for yet.	2001-09-23
US	42907319	RW5E0K4C45ZBT	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Story of 30-Something Simpleton	This book was pretty good, but I can't say it really lived up to all of the media commotion. The story of a British 30-something woman, who believes that life would be perfect (or at least bearable) if she could stop smoking, limit her alcohol consumption level drastically, find a boyfriend who was not an emotional 'nit'-witt, and lose seven pounds. Each entry starts with a list of Bridget's progress or failure to accomplish on these levels. The book is rather funny as it takes us through her emotional roller-coaster of bad boyfriends, stiff boyfriends, young boyfriends, and every other combination of male hormones imaginable, while contemplating the benefits of remaining a spinster and becoming a 'Smug Married' and even the possibility that she may be pregnant. We hear about her mother's hilarious exploits as the adulterous girlfriend of a Portuguese smuggler. We also get a glimpse of Bridget's private dislike of a body that is bulkier than she might prefer.<br />The benefits to this book are that it is quite normal. We meet a woman who has a job, has friends, and has a dating life. She gets drunk, has sexual relationships, and has insecurities about her appearance--all of these things happening within a moderate degree and not blooming into dangerous, consuming obsessions. She gets embarrassed has superficial crises and then moves on. It is a light and humorous read--although tedious in parts--about the life of a woman who is determined to have it all, but will not cause great tragedy to get it. On the other hand, there is a negative aspect to this book which is rather disconcerting. Is this all that a person in her thirties can amount to? There is a part of Bridget which really does just seem like an overgrown teenager, still obsessed with boys, shopping, and weight. Is this the way a typical adult should be acting? Part of you will say no, part of you will say yes. But overall this is a good read, which is simply meant to be taken lightly.	2001-08-11
US	42907319	RROL9Z6BXY7BN	0060987561	406344440	I Know This Much Is True (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating--a saga encompassing every aspect of tragedy	This was an outstanding epic about the life and the traumas causing and caused by schizophrenia. 40-year-old Dominick Birdseye's identical twin Thomas is a victim of this horrible disease. For years, he has been dealing with the devastating effects of having a loved one drifting in and out of a state psychiatric facility under minimum security, putting up with his religious rantings about how he is a prophet of God. However, when Thomas does the unthinkable and cuts off his own hand in a sacrifice to call President Bush's attention to stopping the Gulf War, things will not be so simple. Instead, Dominick's brother will be placed in the cruel confines of maximum security in a forensic psychiatric institute. Once he is there, Dominick is forced to confront all the pain he feels as the survivor of insanity, having mirrored every instance of injustice which was faced by his brother, while in the meantime facing the frustrations of daily life such as his not-yet-dead love for his ex-wife, the death of his infant baby, the victim of his stepfather's abuse (while never knowing who the real father of the two illegitimate twins is), the knowledge that his mother always favored his gentler brother, and the prowling of a much younger girlfriend.<br />This book is so complex! Author Lamb was granted an NEA prize just to write this book and it is easy to see why. Inspite of its near 900 pages, you will find yourself making dents in it daily because it is such an attention-holder. What I liked was that author Lamb gives us a whole spectrum of interesting characters, yet gives us a full window, rather than just a glance, of what their lives are like. There is Dessa, Dominick's Greek-orthodox, gentle yet determined ex-wife, there is Ray Birdseye, his gruff, ex-marine step-father, Leo, his sleazy yet good-hearted bestfriend, married to Dominick's ex-wife's sister, and Lisa, the crew-cut sporting, tough-talking but kind psychiatric social worker, who fights hard for Thomas--and of course, many many more. Interestingly, as Dominick fights to hold onto the pieces of his marred and tortured life, everything that he does is paralleled with an autobiography of his grandfather, an Italian immigrant who lived a life of self-righteousness which led ultimately to tragedy. You will find yourself attracted to the way that in spite of the pain and depression which steep in this tale, everything about it is so creatively expressed; you will manage to walk away feeling uplifted when you have finished this book. This is a masterfully-crafted work, amazingly well-written as author Lamb gives us not just a glimpse, but a fully-articulated portrait of the lives of those affected by a chronic psychiatric order.	2001-08-11
US	42907319	R2PT4DI3QF3RUI	0385319681	432887304	Sex Crimes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Saga of Sexual Obsession	The story of Christine Chandler, thirty-eight year-old lawyer, graduate of Harvard, a woman whose conspicuousness and facade of clear-minded control keeps everyone, even friends, from discovering her destructive love affair with a much younger man. Scott DeSalvo, twenty-six years-old, is a magazine photographer, indolent, ignorant, and &quot;raised on MTV&quot;. However, Scott also has a temper and when things do not go Scott's way, his anger transforms into passionate rage. The relationship was initially based on the mutual, unemotional grounds of fulfilling sexual needs in both parties. Yet merely ten months after she meets him, Christine is facing charges with a horrible crime of mutilation, an act so repugnant she is now known as the &quot;Boston Fury&quot; and attracting national renown.<br />We hear the novel in the aftermath of the assault as Christine, who pleads guilty to her actions, is attempting to gather wisps of memory together to assist her prominent feminist defense attorney. She chronicles the aberrating events that led from a one-night stand to a sadomasochistic gratification to a murderous and insane jealousy. The book gives information punctuated with the depositions and testimonies of her aghast friends and colleagues, cold and unsympathetic parents, and the articles and transcripts of talk shows and tabloid magazines, who are having a field-day with the story of a woman who had it all, but whose emotional melt-down froze to an icy rage.<br />This book was a wonderful read. I enjoyed the wry and offbeat humor of Shute's Christine and could recognize her style emulating that of previous works without repeating. Although this book can be provocative due to its sexual deviance, you can really empathize and appreciate this tale of a woman who bears the knowledge that she has committed a crime, yet leaves the reader wondering if she is ever really guilty of it at all.<br />Sex Crimes is the second novel of author Jenefer Shute, ensuring that after her substantial debut with Life-Size, she is more than just a one-night stand of an author. I look forward to reading much more of her future writing.	2001-08-06
US	42907319	R3JYL36Z94NUQC	0064408620	990885726	I Was a Teenage Fairy (Ageless Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Grim's Fairy Tale Classic	This was a masterfully created novel by young adult author Francesca Lia Block. While some might be skeptical that a plot involving fairies and such 'para-realities' would hold the interest of teenage readers, Block is so adept and powerful in her style, she writes with an almost clairvoyant knowledge about what or who (as characters) will capture the love and loyalty of young readers everywhere.<br />'I Was a Teenage Fairy' tells the story of the young Barbie Marks growing up in the star-struck California world. Ever since she could remember, Barbie's mother has been determined to make her into a successful fashion model, even if she has to destroy Barbie to do it. Of course, the situation only worsens as Barbie's photographer turns out to be a child-molester who sexually abuses her when he steps away from the camera's lens. Broken in spirit and despondent, it is only when Barbie meets Mab, a pinky-sized, smart-talking fairy with a passion for &quot;biscuit-hunting&quot; who nudges and cajoles Barbie through life with her warmth, wit, and love, that she can endure.<br />As she grows older, Barbie moves on and becomes fairly successful, being invited out to parties at the houses of famous Hollywood actors, including Todd, a chic yet compassionate party-leader, who is attracted to Barbie's delicate soul, and his roommate/admirer, Griffin Tyler. It is through her interactions with the two of them, and the gentle persistence of Mab, that Barbie manages to reconcile and bring justice to the pain which has marred her past, as well as to grow and expand and become more than what meets the eye on the glossy pages of a fashion magazine.<br />This novel, with its flint-edged lyrical prose, yet dazzling enchantment, is provocative and thoughtful enough to impress the most prolific literary critic, while gripping enough to hold the attention of the most lacking reader. Block deals well with the subject of sexual abuse for teens in that she does not deal graphically with specific episodes. Instead, she simply provides implied aftershock and the main character's discomfiture as key-indicators, thus more characteristic of the way many teens feel after such an incident. She also points out that abuse never begins with one person but is simply a vicious cycle, which a person who has enough stamina can terminate. Even the very title 'I Was a Teenage Fairy' leaves a melodramatic impact on a person, making them feel as though they have heard the story from the point of Mab far in the future, after a maximum resolution. There is little to disappoint in this work of fiction, with its inspiring conclusion, except for the fact that it does indeed have an ending. Yet will leave readers mesmerized and revisiting the days of their youth when fairies did exist.	2001-08-02
US	42907319	ROP466L0SIM61	0380720647	573295326	Life-Size	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent!	This is one of only a handful of novels describing a victim of anorexia nervosa. Although I do not know if Ms. Shute has ever had anorexia, she did a fabulous job understanding and explaining it without encouraging it (when I first read this book, I was utterly disturbed by Josie's compulsions) or unwittingly doling out \\"tricks-of-the-trade\\". Josie is a 25 year-old female graduate student. After her roommate accidentally walks in on her in the shower, she freaks and calls Josie's parents. Unwillingly, Josie allows her parents to admit her to an eating disorders treatment facility. Yet she rebels and has scorn for the insistence of the doctors and nurses that she is dying; at 5'2'' and a mere 67 pounds, it is Josie's goal to sustain herself as a skeleton living off of air. It is only under the threat of hyperalimentation (a frightening method of intravenous nutrition) that Josie begins to eat.    The novel skips around a lot, giving subtle detail, and in parts, it is hard to understand. However, this is an accurate portrayal of the shrunken, distracted mind of an anorexic. The novel expresses all aspects of anorexia--degrading sexual experiences,perfectionism, our culture's emphasis on thinness, and family conflicts--not just offering a wrap-up explanation. Josie's acrid wit and humor are needed to keep the novel lively and give you a glimpse into the hidden pain and masked frustration she is faced with.  I like how Josie is shown to be, despite her frailness, a woman who is not immature and weak (like anorexics are often betrayed) or on her knees at the hands of an omniscient therapist. Her pain has left her wary, and she is determined not to let anyone take control of her body away from her, even if accompanied by a loving hand.	2001-07-30
