US	42929046	R2O23TBX7BYIYE	0380812983	3080186	After the Kiss (Avon Romantic Treasures)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Really sensual and touching.	While reading the opening scenes, which for me was a snooze fest, I kept coming back to these reviews to give myself courage to continue into the next passage. I am glad that I did because once this story got going it was lovely. <br /> <br />Practically smoulders with sensuality.  A brush of skin, a sigh of surrender.  It is practically poetry.  (This isn't porn, no overly detailed smut here.)  I won't give too much of description of the story except to say that finally I found a hero that did the right thing for the woman he loved without equivication and there was still a story.  He loves her. Simple as that.  So romantic.   <br /> <br />Why not five stars?  Well there was the snoozing at the beginning but that isn't the reason why.  I was annoyed with the high number of questions that was answered with a question.  Also inner dialogue that was frought full of questions and thoughts that should have been spoken aloud weren't.  I found myself searching for a response and then had to back up a few times to figure out that the passage wasn't spoken, simply thought. Kinda frustrating.	2005-10-13
US	42929046	RLKX8F5COZYSD	0380798867	562252278	Taming Rafe (The Bancroft Brothers)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	I can picture Enoch so excited by her character that she frantically types...	Lovely book, however I am torn between a 3 and a 4 rating.  Let me explain.    Rafe is a rakish, dissolute, second son of a duke who is at 28 still rebelling against his daddy.  Leaving England frequently on \\"adventures\\" but truely he is really lost for all life fulfilling purpose.    Felicity is stunned to find out that not only did her brother leave her destitute in a crumbling estate but he also gambled it from underneath her and the new owner is said devil above.       Ok good premise.  It is funny, and the younger sister remindes me Diana in The Philadelphia Story. The story takes on mostly the view of Rafe and you get to hear about how he melts everytime our Heroine smiles...which is so very romantic.      I have to say that perhaps I read to much into books of this type but I believe that people should have some accountablility for their writing otherwise it shouldn't be written. So here our my examples of things that should be accounted for...    #1:  In the beginning of the story Felicity sends Rafe out to sleep in the stable.   From the previous descriptions of rain and delapidation, and that the entire estate, duties and all repairs are managed by only one woman...who is always mending stockings and such... I can imagine that the stable has no fresh hay to lay upon.  It just rained and the stable leaks badly.  Do you know what kind of infestations live there?  Rotten hay isn't sweet...when was the last time it was even mucked out?      #2:  In order to fell their attacker (Rafe) May hits him upon the head with a tea kettle and that causes him to bleed.  A lot.  But next day his about town after sleeping in said stable, totally bloody.  YUCK!!  He doesn't even bathe til the next day.     #3:  Rafe lives with her unchaperoned in her own house.  Everyone knows they are lovers and besides some gossip that is all that happens.  She should be ruined by the mere innuendo.     #4:  Why the hell doesn't he leap to marriage the moment he took her virginity?  He totally ruined her.  What if she was pregnant?  What a cad...I don't get the rest of the discussion in the entire book, he should marry her ASAP.  The loss of her virginity goes completely unnoticed. Perhaps he feels that she is so lowly it doesn't matter to someone of her class.     #5: How does one woman keep care of all those cows and sheep?  We know of at least 42 cows...some are about to deliver.  They need things, how does one woman do it? It just isn't explained and therefore should never be brought up.       I am convinced that Enoch is so thrilled by her characters, which are good, that she just types mindlessly until her story is completely with little thought to these practicalities.  I liked her book but I am aggrivated at these problems.  I had the same problem with the other book Sin and Sensibility...it just wasn't thought out very well beyond what would happen to the characters.      You won't be disappointed if you read this book...but may be you will see what I mean and can imagine a bit less vividly that I can.	2005-10-08
US	42929046	RCBZOBJ34LY9G	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	43	49	N	N	Kleypas knows how to fall in love...	Novelist Sara Fielding is a woman trapped between her current persona of the proper, innocent, English maid and the adventerous hoyden lying dormant just beneath the surface.  She meets our hero by saving his life thus thrusting herself into the scandelous underworld of gambling, prostitution, and debauchery....and our hero is the King of it all.  <br /> <br />Derek Craven's spiritual candle is growing dim. He feels himself soiled and beyond redeemption. He shields his fragile heart well and finds it alarming when this English Miss upsets his precarious balance. <br /> <br />Standard romance novel right?  Well in a way yes, but Kleypas gives me what I want...and that is to remember falling in love.  The heated embraces, the blushes, the struggle to forgive yourself enough to feel worthy of love are all captured beautifully in this book. <br /> <br />I have read this book at least 4 times now.  It doesn't get old.  (I like to read a couple of oldies but goodies everytime the author comes out with a new book...It Happened one Autumn was great by the way)   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-10-03
US	42929046	R22OHZHUIN2OUH	038077013X	689464190	Then Came You (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Kleypas loves these two!	Lawless Lily is a delightful and vivacious contradiction to the usual heroines. She is not for one minute bashful, blushing, or naive.  She works the fellas around her pinky finger and shocks the matrons of the ton.  She is tolerated because her antics are so amusing but if they only knew about her past...maybe they woudn't.      Alex, Lord Raiford is a man sealed off from love by loss.  When his fiance died the part of him that was light and winsome was sealed tightly leaving only an impervious shell that he keeps him safe.  Nothing would crack his wall of safety or his steely heart so when the realization that he must indeed marry he chooses a safe, pretty, English doll to foist his upcoming heirs upon. Just so happens that this doll is Lawless Lilly's sister.     Lily realizes that Raiford is a complete beast and will not do for her gentle sister and sets out to sabotage this union.  Sparks and tempers fly immediately. Raiford is not only threatened by her...he is shaken to his very safe little core.      This book is a masterpiece.  I can't get enough of Kleypas.  You know that she really loved these two characters just by reading the effort she put into them.  It is a constant, edge of your seat, smouldering romance fest that won't disappoint you.      You're still reading this???    You should be reading the book....hit the \\"Add to cart\\" button right now.	2005-09-30
US	42929046	R1MO6HYLTI47VO	038080588X	292444051	The Truest Heart	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good and predictable...	Whether it be that I read far too many romances of late or that this book didn't impress me, I don't know.  Maybe I am just wearing out the genre. This was a good book, not particularly memorable, but it certainly wasn't bad.  It has all the heroines requist tears and blushes, she was beautiful, and he was handsome with the personal obstacles to love.         I don't know what it is that made this book good but unmemorable but if I had to guess I think it was the timing. Things went from unconsciousness to make out in just a few pages.  I suppose my other problem is that if your going to mention a complicated scene, such as the scene when the hero must lift a large ill man by himself when he supposedly an equally injured man, it must be difficult, one sentence will not do. It is distracting to read the next sentence that went something like : \\"then later this happened and all was well.\\"  It destroys an opportunity to bond on a human level with the characters otherwise they are just plastic dolls. Without detailed descriptions of other events, the overly detailed, multi-paged, sexual descriptions seem out of place.	2005-09-28
US	42929046	R300ZWULPCIF3T	0060562498	136487724	It Happened One Autumn: The Wallflowers, Book 2	Books	5	59	64	N	N	I always get what I want from a Kleypas...	Kleypas does it again! She dependably turns out books that deliver just the right amount of passion and drama drawn together by an excellent writing style that keeps me riveted.      Lillian Bowman, featured in the Secrets of a Summer Night, is a fiesty American heiress and having been gilted by the New York upper class is dragged to England by her social climbing Momma in order to marry into aristocracy.  However as much as she tries to be refined and proper she is still retains the low brow mouth of her grandmother and can swear with the best sailors.    Marcus Marsden, the Earl of Westcliff, is a supporting character in at least two other Kleypas books.  He has lived his life to a strict English code of propriety.  Not living as a monk mind you but always descreet.  He has single-handledly pulled his family from financial ruin by breaking with traditonal aristocracy and aligning himself with some powerful self made men (other Kleypas heroes), not of the arisotocracy, who are as business savvy as he is.    If you read Secrets of a Summer Night you remember that the animosity between Lillian and Marcus is as immediate as it is fierce.  But if resistance is the measure of desire...they desire each other fiercely.  Despite Marcus best intentions he can't resist the pull of someone so free, so wild, so unlike himself.  Lillian on the other hand is complete flummoxed by someone she believed she had figured out.  She is completely suprised by how undone and passionate the paragon of English virtue is becoming.      I liked Lillian because she is completely rich character.  She is vibrantly full of life. And Marcus...sigh...Kleypas definitely has this fella right.        The only thing I want to know is where I can get some of that perfume?	2005-09-27
US	42929046	R3D74JOKID8QSI	0671729470	13745369	Petals on the Wind	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Left me like the last book....strangely quiet and not relieved.	Petals on the Wind kept me intrigued until the end.  I won't review the story's plot because that will give up too much of the story but I will say that everything I wanted to happen did.  The only compliant I had is that Chris didn't get his happy ending described in more detail in the end and I don't think I can go through the trauma of reading it in the next book.  I was always rooting for him, even if he was her brother.  Just read this book if you still felt trapped in the attic by the first one. You won't regret it. It wears true to humanity, even if it isn't how we would want things in reality to be.  People are definitely shades of gray... <br />	2005-09-20
US	42929046	R14OHG6V1WBTQS	0671729411	173166968	Flowers in the Attic (Dollanganger)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I have been floored by this book!	When I was a kid I saw these books in the childrens aisle with the requist girl in the cheesy art on the cover...I just could never get myself fired up for stuff that seemed as mass marketed as Barbie and New Kids on the Block. For lack of a better explanation I thought I was too cool for this book.  Lately I saw this book marketed with the \\"Classics\\" along with Catcher in the Rye etc...Well I decided I would finally read it.    I was not to be disappointed.  This story touched me, disturbed me, and kept me enthralled until its end.  I was riveted to the page and suffered every indignation right along with Chris and Cathy.  Their mother's betrayals made me rage and I almost couldn't continue to read when they decided not to have her put in jail.  Anyways...this is an awesome book and you MUST read.      Just a quick word on writing style...VC Andrews has it.  The punctuation is such perfection the words just glide from the page..Sentence structure is superb and it doesn't leave you sputtering along trying to make sense.  Excellent and so easy to read.     I've decided to edit this review and add this footnote for the \\"day after\\" reflections.  I still feel trapped in the attic.  I gotta buy the next book...I can't leave it like this.  I have to know that they are OK.       This book is not for someone very young...may be 16 or 17 max..	2005-09-14
US	42929046	R37UAKAJT9HS67	044017161X	869765562	The Raven and the Rose	Books	2	6	8	N	N	You ever buy all the authors books because you were blown away by one?	I am so guilty of this and am getting burned.      I read The Pirate and the Pagan which is by far one of my most favorite books of all time.  I also read reviews saying that the series of novels with the \\"and the\\" in the titles were just as good so I bought them inspite of reading many other reviews that did not recommend them.      Well the Raven and the Rose started off like her other books and I was sure I was going to absolutely LOVE it.  I felt positive that I was going to be the one who understood Henley when all the other reviewers didn't and I was going to be blown away.  BUT UGH!!!  I couldn't stand these two by page 200.      When an author drags out resistance between two characters it gets old fast.  If this book was reality I would feel the same way and fight just as savagely as the heroine did, but it isn't...its fantasy and I either want a the reading high you get from an intense fast moving plot...or I am moving on.      I always should trust my instincts with books.  A tightly packed book with small type shows thought and care of the finished product (as in the Pirate and the Pagan)  A book with large type and fewer pages shows formula following and writing for a paycheck instead of passion.      I not giving up on Henley....I just need a break.	2005-09-12
US	42929046	R2P8XS0ZGQWE9X	0440201446	197674922	The Hawk and the Dove	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Good but exhausting...	I know this book would have been better if I hadn't just finished The Pirate and the Pagan yesterday.  If you have read that book you understand what an emotional rollercoaster it is.  So today I am reading the Hawk and the Dove and finding myself enjoying the beginning...loving the characters,  but as I was nearing the conclusion of the tale I found myself completely emotionally drained and wishing the damned thing would be over. Hence the 3 stars.  <br />  <br />The Plot, while good in the beginning, lost its progression during all the intrigues in the Elizabethian Court.  I love that Hawk is so desperately in love with Sabre, and I love how hot tempered she is so I get all the intense sex scenes.  But I definitely would have enjoyed the story more had she just fessed up about a hundred pages sooner.	2005-09-11
US	42929046	ROO6CK99BXRGF	0440206235	943492948	The Pirate and the Pagan	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Why Virginia Henley is a LEADER in  romance!!!	Yes, I have been disappointed by Virigina Henley in the past.  Some of her books have been just like reading raunchy porn and it was difficult to relate to characters through the smut...but sometimes she gets it right and The Pirate and the Pagan is perfected example of this.      Summer, or \\"Cat\\" as is her nickname, is a divine portrayl of humanity and survival, fire and passion.  I loved her completely and understood her fiery tempers.  She is just as the title of the book implies...a Pagan...a earthy Goddess.      Ruark is a man dominated by is passions. A master authoritarian and regal in bearing.  He is devilishly handsome and sensual in his appetites.  A man of two sides.  Hot tempered and jealous in one instant and devistatingly tender the next.      They instantly feel each others pull.    So what do you expect when two incindiary spirits collide?  They explode!  The are passionate for each other even when they are tearing each other apart.  Henley drags these two through the proverbial mud and I was left on the edge of my seat, so to speak, to see how on earth they would get through their mess.     The sex, as some complained about in their reviews, was in my mind absolutely appropriate.  It wouldn't be at all appropriate for them to be luke warm for each other.  And in my opinion what makes sex scenes in books unreadable is when the story is so poorly written that the book is reduced to paragraphs between episodes of smut.     Henley doesn't write ignorant books.  Even the Henley books I hated (hated isn't the same thing as indifferent mind you)showed care in research and time and thought into story progression.  Her writing is so important she never writes mindless filler you can skip over.  You could never skim her book and know whats going on as you can with some other authors.     This book is going on my Forever--save them from a burning building--shelf along with it's equals, Whitney My Love and Kingdom of Dreams by Judith McNaught, Lady Sofia's Lover by Lisa Kleypas, The Lady Lies by Samantha Saxon, Knight in Shining Armor by Jude Deveraux, Outlander by Diana Gabaldon and All Through the Night by Connie Brockway.	2005-09-09
US	42929046	ROSH5YNQ9NV54	0451216954	724980281	Dark Lover (Black Dagger Brotherhood, Book 1)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	So much better than others of the same genre..I am going to keep up with the series.	I thought this book was awesome.  It was a good spin on the romance/vampire genre.  I liked her take on the vampire lore.  I liked the idea of the \\"Transition\\". Great conflict between the characters. I definitely enjoyed it  better than the Anita Blake series.     The \\"lessers\\" were a bit of a let down.  Impotent, babypowder   smelling, evil guys just isn't as menacing to me as I think she wanted them to be.     The only other thing I had trouble with...and believe me it was just my problem...the hero was described in a way that made me think of Macho-Man Randy Savage (Of the old WWF and Snap into a Slim Jim commericials)  I had to force myself to envision somebody else...anybody else...	2005-09-07
US	42929046	R2Q14IXH5EQ3B4	0385339143	933103025	Spell of the Highlander	Books	4	20	29	N	N	Spell of the Highlander is better than Immortal anyways.	Ok, so I should say that I am a huge fan of some of Moning's books.  So much so that I perused many book stores hoping that someone would accidentally put it out early.  I had a lot of expectations.      If your thought the Immortal Highlander was good, you will enjoy this book more.      I thought Cian was great, very alpha.  Jessica was great, sorta a Gwen/Chloe sandwiched into one...however the lack of the extra star is was purely with the author's choices for some descriptions and events.    I couldn't relate to a character whose underwear stuck out of her low rider jeans.  That is the stuff of teen floozies and not of someone working on her doctorate. The exposition for Jessica's character was too short and too involved with just sex.       I could believe that Cian wanted to have sex soon after being released after an 1100 years internment, but it seemed to be just that ...sex.  There was none of the tension building as there was in the Dark Highlander.  It was served up on a silver platter.  Plus...they began having sex by stripping each other with an audience of his own family present.  I am all for wild a kinky...but come on!  There is wild and there is rude. She had a great formula with the Kiss of the Highlander  (By far my most favorite book)and I suppose I enjoyed that story more because I felt that Drustan was a bit more vunerable, and needed Gwen just a bit more and his feelings didn't \\"happen\\", there was a building of tension and excitement beforehand.     I am not going to bash this book anymore because I didn't think it was awful.  I gave it four stars after all. Will definitely be a big hit with the RBL romantica ladies and that to me seems to be her main audience focus anyways. It ranks above her early first two books and above Immortal Highlander in my estimation.  I am still going to be perusing the book stores for her future books.  I can't give up hope that I am going to read something that once again knocks my socks off from this author.	2005-09-01
US	42929046	R32D43DWCPLJE2	0440221986	78629434	A Dangerous Man	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Great book by a great author...	Couldn't get into this book for long time simply because the opening pages began as a western (I'm generally a regency only kinda gal)...so, consequently I missed out, for a long time, on a great book.  There are some hilarious moments when the heroine, Mercy, is purposely getting titles wrong.  Some sizziling moments that are drawn out, like the brush of a hand.  And the hero's (Perth) love for the heroine is so desperate it makes your heart flutter.  I have never been disappointed by Brockway.  Why not 5 stars...few spelling errors (I am guilty of the same but I am not published), the matter of Perth's title first came from a cousin, then from an uncle. One of the main characters is named Fannie, which is the vulgar English slang word for vagina. And Mercy's hair was brown then red then brown again then red once more. Otherwise it was a fantastic read.	2005-07-31
US	42929046	REXO8K19F0H2P	0380814714	78646061	So Speaks the Heart (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	1	16	23	N	N	Let us examine the facets of this book shall we??	I wish someone would explain how this is romance. The first sex scene is rape.  Then ,later, he beats her and tells her she made him do it.  She says very clearly \\"NO\\" on more than one occasion.  She says \\"I hate you\\" just before he rapes her on the next occasion.  She says \\"If you ever touch me again I will kill myself.\\"  The hero is crude and rude and stupid...not to mention a rapist.  And to top it all off this book is poorly written.  Rape does not equal Love.	2005-07-25
US	42929046	R3FWP0QPVHNY3I	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A strong book..	The first time I read this book I was blown away.  It was a definite keeper that I planned to read over and over again.  Yet I didn't...I couldn't explain my lack of desire to read this splendid book again until I dug it out of the closet and forced myself to read it to discover my aversion.     Don't get me wrong this is an excellent book.  It's just very dramatic and the hero is flawed so deeply and because this book draws you in so well, it can be exhausting to read about the heroine dealing with this man's problems.  Loretta Chase must have done a great deal of research into the human heart because this man's problems are too real.  His inner dialogues are so tortured it makes your heart hurt.This book asks something of you: that you find forgiveness and understanding yourself for this man or else it would be unreadable.      This is a beautiful love story...I think a must for any fan of romance.  I know I will read this book again sometime in the future.  It had been at least 2 years since I last read it and it affected me so deeply that I could recall every part of the story...I can't say that for most books.  Even my most favorite Judith McNaught books that I have read about a zillion times and come back in 6 months and have forgotten it all.  Thats saying something.	2005-07-13
US	42929046	R19BFC7FK2ZZY0	0373484372	521584074	Wings in the Night: Twilight Phantasies / Twilight Memories / Twilight Illusions	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Wings in the Night : 3 beginning stories in the series.	1. Twilight Phantasies:  Story of Eric Marquand, vampire and French nobleman, and Tamara, clerical secretary for the Division of Paranormal Investigations (DPI).  Eric is lured by the call of Tamara as he watches her skate upon the ice.  He senses that she is one of the \\"Chosen Ones\\" (a mortal who vampires feel the need to protect and can potentially also become vampire).  However he quickly senses a trap when he realizes that she is one of \\"them\\"...a DPI agent.      I liked this story, it isn't dark or brooding, sort of like reading a sitcom. The chemistry is there and you learn about the background of how one becomes vampire in this particular tale.     2. Twilight Memories:  This is the story of two ancients Roland and Rhiannon.  They have a tortured history with each other.  Roland denies Rhiannon at ever turn and she suffers his loss every day.  That is until they must unite to save Jameson, a child who also happens to be a Chosen One (a character that is continued from the first story).    I liked this story because of the unrequited love aspect....love to always wonder instead of things being a forgone conclusion.     3. Twilight Illusions:  This is the story of Damien and Shannon.  Damien has shunned his vampire kind and lives out in the open as a magician.  Shannon has lost her best friend Tawny after she assisted in Damien's show...so have a lot of other girls.  She is determined to get to the bottom of this mystrey and reveal Damien for the murderer he is.     I liked this story because it had a mystery to solve and a evil villian who actually seemed evil and not cartoony. Loads of chemistry.      Why I recommend the Twilight series? Well I enjoy vampire tales.  And Christine Feehan books make me ill (she could buy a few adjectives).  These books are light reading, well written, and you get just enough of the supernatural aspects.  The stories are centered around the romance and there is just enough sex that is meaningful and without pandering (Hot, but very tasteful).    Why not 5 stars?  Well these vampires could be more darker.  They have a whole moral code, they don't drink from humans (at least not often) and that is where Feehan is sometimes a bit better (although she always wipes their minds so it's just as innocuous.)  I wish she would be a bit more daring and unapologetic with a vampires nature.  These stories have the same feel as Buffy the Vampire Slayer series.	2005-07-10
US	42929046	R1GFRGQFCG5DWQ	0373218095	302128142	Two By Twilight (2 novels in 1)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Pretty good read...	This book is good but unnecessary for the progression of the series.  These characters don't really reoccur in the rest of the series --with the exception of Donovan in the book Edge of Twilight (and that is just a bit part you don't need to read this book to understand it).  These stories are good just for the enjoyment of the vampire series but the only story I liked is the first one.  I can't ever seem to get through the second.	2005-07-10
US	42929046	RVIG8IGNO57PQ	0373484585	297405260	At Twilight	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Wings in the Night continues  with two great tales...#4 & #5.	#4 Beyond Twilight: This story was actually printed second in the book but it was printed first so I will count that as number 4.  This is the book about Cuyler Jade (I wish I could pronounce it) and Ramsey a DPI agent sent to bring her in.  So far bringing in this sprite of a vampire has been difficult for Ramsey.  She seems to mock his efforts at every turn in ways meant to be humorous but to him it's just frustrating. Little does he know that Cuyler is attracted to him and that is why she hasn't ended this chase before now. And finally as this story begins we find that Cuyler is tired of running.  She has decided to kidnap Ramsey and get to the bottom of this devilish attraction once and for all.  She spirits him away to the far north...where it is always night.   <br /> <br />I love this story and I don't know why.  Cuyler is simply too cute.  An ex-flapper from the 20's...she surrounds herself with faniciful little dreams objects and romance novels. It is easy to picture her as described...a pixie. <br /> <br />5. Born in Twilight:  This is the story between Jameson (from the Twilight Phantasies and Twilight Memories) and Angelica a nun.  Angelica is attacked while walking to a homeless shelter to provide care...her attacker is a vampire.  He quickly drains her dry and exchanges it with his own blood making her vampire.  She is horrified by the evil of this man and accidentally kills him while trying to protect herself and a little boy he wanted her to kill.  Now she is alone, unsure of her nature, lost in the alleys of the city. <br /> <br />Jameson, a chosen one, has always been surrounded by his vampire family.  He, himself, has declined the offer to change to a vampire.  He  wants to remain mortal.  Little did he know his life would change... <br /> <br />He was walking the streets of the city when he heard the sounds of suffering.  He set out to find the source and it leads him into an abandoned building.  He finds a beautiful woman/child, huddled, alone,and afraid.  He knows he shouldn't approach strange vampires but he can't resist her and offers to help this fragile vampiress... <br /> <br />I LOVE THIS STORY...it is so jam packed with twists and turns I can't tell you how much I enjoyed it.  While the other Twilight stories are occasionally somewhat \\"sitcom\\"  this one was dark, and conflicted.  So sexy too.  Good drama and nice turn of vampire lore.  <br />	2005-07-10
US	42929046	R1BQ6L1B7ZCM4P	0778320227	52587498	Edge of Twilight	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I believe this is the 10th in the series	Edge is a vampire who lost it all when young mortal Frank Stiles (a reoccuring villian in the series) walked into his life and kills his vampiric family.  For the last 40 years Edge has been seeking revenge for their deaths...killed him a few times too...only he just doesn't stay dead.    He learns that Frank Stiles has interest in a young woman named Amber Lilly Bryant.  The rumored Child of Promise.  He is determined to find this woman and use her as bait to draw Stiles out.  And he would feel good about his plan too, if he wasn't being drawn to her like a siren...    I am a fan so I really dug this book. For true understanding and enjoyment, however, I think you need to start at the beginning of the series...it's worth it and it makes this read so much better because you are intimately aquainted with the supporting characters.     I liked Edge although it was hard not to envision \\"Spike\\" from the Buffy series.  He doesn't do it for me so I kept telling myself \\"Ryan Phillipe\\" and \\"Billy Idol\\"...that helped some.  Amber Lilly is a reoccuring character from other stories as an infant then as a young woman.  She is the daughter of a vampire and a mortal...her parents story is worth reading as well (At Twilight).    Why not 5 stars?  Well parts were very sitcom TV showish and I like my books to be a bit more darker and introspective.	2005-07-10
US	42929046	R2RZ8ROCSZBUQD	1551668866	752693205	Twilight Hunger (Mills & Boon Nocturne)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	# 7 in the Twilight series	Morgan Desilva is dying.  To get a new prespective on her career as a screenwriter and some much needed rest she moves to Maine into an old house where she happens upon a diary in the attic.  A very vivid diary about a vampire, Dante, that stirs her emotions and imagination.  She decides to use the diaries as inspiration for her new works.    Dante returns home to find a woman living in his house.  She is thin...horribly so.  She suffers and he can sense her pain.  But he can also sense something else. He is drawn to her; coming to her nightly, desire rising within him as he watches her from afar.  He recognizes her as one of the Chosen, the few with the ability to change into a vampire, her body is declining young as everyone of the Chosen must...that is unless he changes her.      I liked this story.  It wasn't one of the best but it also wasn't bad.  Just a bit longer than her other stories because it is filled with secondary characters moving the entire series with backfill story content. Some of that story was interesting and I know she HAD to do it in order to keep the series going it just took away from the romance a bit.	2005-07-10
US	42929046	R3E28A36FTUJ1A	1551666685	263953863	Embrace the Twilight (MIRA)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Against all odds romance...	Sarafina is a jaded, lonely woman who also happens to be a vampire.  She cares for no one and only surrounds herself with people she can utterly control and who do not touch her heart in any way (this part is very inventive and creepy, very dark).  <br /> <br />Willem Stone is a mortal and not one of the chosen.  He was hired to follow Amber Lilly ( Also seen in At Twilight, Edge of Twilight) into New York City to ensure her safety \\"discretly\\" while she is having a bit of vacation fun.  While protecting his charge he finds the woman of his dreams...literally.  He dreamed of her while he was a POW during the war in the middle east.   <br /> <br />Sarafina knows Willem too.  He was her dream angel, the one she loved when others betrayed but he abandoned her...and she is not one to ever allow herself to be hurt.   <br /> <br />I loved this book...why?  It was finally the darkness I was looking for. If your a fan of Maggie you know that it is fairly light reading --this one had some tortured characters (emotionally and literally too).  I applaude this novel.	2005-07-10
US	42929046	R1MZERW8CXBJI2	0380809273	777912243	The Dangerous Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I found myself talking to the book....	Ian, the viscount of St. Clair is a man of secrets.  No one knows how he spent his time abroad during the war on the Penisula and no one is privy to is private social life either.  He keeps things tightly under wraps...that is until he wants to marry the wrong girl.    Felicity has heard all the rumors about St. Clair and when there is smoke there's fire.  She is sure Ian is not suited for her friend and she is determined to prove it with \\"fact\\". Getting some dirt on the Viscount, however, will be an easy job for her, she has had a lot of experience researching secrets for her gossip column. She writes all her little on dits under the pen \\"Lord X\\" and will prove he is unfit saving her friend from a loveless match.    Ian is aghast to see his life speculated on in \\"Lord X's\\" column.  The gaunlet is thrown and Ian is determined to find this fellow and put him in his place...only he finds that the he is really a she.  An enticing, infuriating she.      The battle of public opinion begins...each thrashing at the other.  Speculations fly!  They set to ruin each other...that is until he decides that they should marry....    I liked the story, good delivery.  It was a good way to spend the afternoon.  Why not five stars? There were a few consistency errors (like at one point her hair is reddish, then its like coffee spilling over pillows...which to me suggests black, and at one point her hair was held up by two knitting needles and then later it was two pencils.) I also get bored with silly arguments. They should just do \\"it\\" and get over it.  I talked to the book a few times in frustration over this...funny it didn't listen.      In addition to this book you should buy The Lady Lies by Samantha Saxon.	2005-07-08
US	42929046	R2AU29XKG5QLE5	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Written many reviews for this book, but deleted them for my review after the umpteenth re- read.	Daegeus is a highlander cursed when he betrayed the compact between the Fae and Humans in an attempt to save his brother.  What is this curse?  He is now the vessel of thirteen vile, evil, horrid, and all powerful souls.  The side effect is immortality and the loss of his humanity in slow tempting degrees as he succumbs to the power within himself.     He fights the encroaching darkness, everyday, reading tomes, some bought, some ill-gotten, searching for a remedy. Anything that will give him back his humanity and lock these evil thirteen back into neither-dimensional prison.  He can not let the darkness take him.    Then Chloe, a woman of intellegence, innocence, fire and passion...and most importantly light comes into his life.  His soul cries out that she belongs to him on first glance while she exits a cab....he quickly denies entertaining those thoughts...those are thoughts best left alone and are not for him in his current state.  Yet ....    How is he to resist when he finds her in his bedroom, under his bed, skirts rucked up her lovely thighs....    I can't get enough of this book.  I have never read a book as often as I have read this one.  This book was the first romance I have ever read and since then have read hundreds...and I always come back to this one.  I love it!	2005-07-04
US	42929046	R1FJY96VALJI38	0505524473	740687630	Dark Fire (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 6)	Books	3	10	17	N	N	I can't believe I read it again.	Anyone can read my reviews and discover I am not a fan of Mrs. Feehan. That is why I am as baffled as I am.  I had been over come with a need re-read this book.  Yes I remember how much I hated it the first time...how my skin crawled when Darius overused his terms of endearment.  But still I had to re-read this book...so much so that I had to buy it again! (It was so horrible the first time I gave it away.) Now I am not going to say this book is awful because the fact that I did read it again would make me some sort of sado-masochist...so instead let me describe the story.    Darius (standard Carpathian, no new qualities) is the leader of a small family of fellow Carpathians who also happen to be traveling musicians.  They are beginning to have auto trouble while on tour and put an ad in the newpaper for a mechanic.     Enter Rusti, mechanic, of slight build with red hair.  She is tough and reasonable. A standard Feehan heroine who takes exception to the demands that Daruis, after discovering they are indeed lifemates, places on her.     Not to spoil it for anyone, but if you have read Feehan, you know what happens.  Same thing that happens in every story.  Just different names.      Why did I find myself desiring to read this story again you may wonder?  Well I did ponder this quite abit, considered that I was indeed NUTS, but then decided there were three parts of the story I did like.     1.  The escape attempts were well written.  2.  I liked the scene where Rusti is calling the animals to her in the forest.    3.  I liked that the most of the bad guys were humans.    So I can't in good conscious give this novel more than three stars but in all fairness to Feehan, I can no longer say it was the worst thing ever written.  That is still Captive Bride by Johanna Lindsey.  You should see my review about that.	2005-07-03
US	42929046	R2QV1H49S4335R	006053124X	44138711	It's In His Kiss (Bridgertons)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Beautiful and warm....	Hyacinth Bridgerton is the baby of the clan Bridgerton, and she also has a bit of \\"littlest\\" syndrome.  Always having been surrounded by love, she is accostomed to everything being her way, and her shenanigans making her the center of attention.  She is vivacious, opinionated, and very witty.  <br /> <br />Gareth is more complicated.  He has been living the life of a bachelor on limited funds.  He is having a running feud with his \\"father\\" and has been well, since forever.  He is estranged from everything a life should have except for the love of his Grandmother, Lady Danbury. <br /> <br />Lady Danbury, always the matchmaker, keeps throwing these two in each others path. They find themselves innocently seated next to each other at the Smythe-Smith musicale and instantly form a kinship.  But thankfully Lady D won't have to work so hard. She is going to have help from George--Gareth's dead brother. <br /> <br />Gareth recieves the diary of his, also dead, Grandmother from  George's estate. Only thing is it's in Italian.  A language Gareth has no ability to read so Hyacinth decides to lend her limited Italian abilities to help translate....and that is when the mystery begins.....    <br /> <br />Reading this book was just like coming home.  Quinn's novels are all inter-related so getting to visit characters I remembered from other works was delightful.  I chuckled over Lady D's antics often and laughed over Anthony's obvious relief in finally getting Hyacinth married.   <br /> <br />Like most readers I'm sure, Julia Quinn is an automatic buy.  I know that you won't be disappointed.  This is a good book.  In addition to this book I also recommend The Lady Lies, by Samantha Saxon.	2005-07-03
US	42929046	R82XGRI5V5V9S	0060534249	223377898	To Rule the Waves: How the British Navy Shaped the Modern World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting review of Bristish Naval History	You can read many reviews that tout the historical content of this book so I won't bore you with that...but I will say that I enjoyed reading this book. Herman has a way of weaving a tale that makes the telling of history interesting.  I finished this book in only a few days.  I learned so much and it didn't feel like learning.  I am not an expert in the accuracy of the history as some other reviewers are, but I will say that it had me recalling a bit of my formal education...and the American School system sucks.  There is so much more out there and Herman, in my opinion, delivers it.	2005-06-30
US	42929046	R2PW89P23JIW10	0743422759	769274987	Secondhand Bride (McKettrick Cowboys Trilogy #3)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	My first western was really good...	Jeb McKettrick is a wild one who never kept out of trouble.  The story opens as he is running, literally, from one such example, a fiery heroine named Chloe.  Chloe catches him between the bulkhouse and a pile of manure surrounded by angry chickens and the story explodes into action.  We discover that the beautiful Chloe is actually Jeb's wife who was abandoned after one hour of marriage, discarded hastily once Jeb discovered she was already married.  Chloe argued that he was her only husband and if he would just listen he would understand....but he is a man. <br /> <br />Generally I am a Regency only kind of gal, but I was desperate for something to read and this was sold in the hospital gift shop.  Somehow this book was meant for me because I thought it was splendid.  The cast of characters was so rich, I want to read the whole series.  A definite good buy.	2005-06-30
US	42929046	RYTY002GHFR0O	0515138649	273244523	The Paid Companion	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Just couldn't get into it.	It wasn't that the writing wasn't superb, or that the characters were sloppily drawn but the only way I can describe this book is a long, slow, foghorn blast. EEEEEEEEEAHHHHHHHHHHHHHH. And I will leave it at that. Maybe borrow this one from a friend.  If you want a mystery romance that really burns up the page but is also educated and well written read Samantha Saxon's The Lady Lies.	2005-06-30
US	42929046	R21LW4RC9662QL	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Suspend disbelief and be swept back in time....	and right into a sexy highlanders arms.  I have read this novel at least 5 times and each time I love it.  There is something about the chemistry on page that causes my heart to beat a bit faster and become a little flushed and breathless.  Drustan is without a doubt one of the sexiest Heroes and Gwen is so delightfully funny and simplistically real in her inner dialogues that I loved her instantly.  Because of this book and the Dark Highlander I will always buy whatever Ms. Moning writes and am able to forgive things I don't like about some of her other earlier novels because I am so freaking in love with her newer ones.  I only hope Spell of the Highlander due in Aug 05 is just as good as these.	2005-06-30
US	42929046	R61H3PFWC2ES2	0515133620	346308894	Tapestry	Books	3	7	10	N	N	5 stars for Karen Marie Moning	Moning's addition to this Tapestry book was the only saving grace and I will describe it to you so that you will understand why that one novella is totally worth the price of the rest of the book.     Vengeance, a man made a powerful instrument of retribution, has returned to the warm unfamiliar home of his birth for one month.  Sent there by the Unseelie king as part of a bargain long ago forgotten.  He finds the mortal world abhorrent and can't understand why his good king would require him endure this with nary an instruction or purpose.  Only \\"suggestions\\" about how he is to spend his time there. In response to the kings \\"suggestions\\" he keeps his life as colorless as possible. He eats stale bread, and deprives himself off all interactions and creature comforts.  He resolves to simply wait until his good king calls for his return, and that is when he meets her....    Jane is pulled through time and arrives in Scotland during the middle ages,  naked as the day she was born, hair aflame, and believing it is all a dream.  And she is sure it's just a dream because a her dreams always contain one man...Aidan.     Immediately the warmth and glow of her life force beckons Vengeance.  Did the good king send her as a test of his loyalty?What did Vengeance do to deserve such temptation...    Jane knows.  Jane has known him since forever. Oh not in real life but in the \\"dreaming\\" and now that she has him she isn't going to give him up. Despite that he seems not to remember her, she is determined to show him that he is indeed the man from her dreams, the only man she will ever love.  Her Aidan.	2005-06-29
US	42929046	R3HE6PK94P5JQM	0060513659	87860638	Yours Until Dawn (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Yours Until Dawn....literally.	This has been the second time I enjoyed this book and it was as wonderful as the first.   I literally was up until dawn.     Gabriel Fairchild is a hero returned home.  He finds himself recovering from an injury that has left him blinded and his face horribly scarred. The piting glances and worries of his family are most intolerable and he soon finds himself alone in his country manner away from the prying eyes of the ton and relieved of the burden his disability places on his family.  Only thing is he isn't fairing well on his own.  Mistakes and bumbling sends him into fits of rage that causes his servants to tremble. He has long since given up niceties of society, and shunned even the light of day or a breathe of cleansing air.        Samantha Wickersham is answering an ad in the London Times for a nurse.  She endures a most disturbing interview in which she was treated to a marvelously violent tirade of our hero Gabriel.  Strangely where most women would run in fear, Samantha stays.  Could she have motives of her own?      It was the feral behavior of Gabriel that drew me into the story.  He was lead by his other senses, ferreting Samantha out simply by the smell of her. It was almost an animal scenting his mate.  Very hot!  And he was just awful to her, the hilarity of which was not lost.      This is an excellent book.  Being that I have read it twice, I was slightly bothered that there wasn't more foreshadowing in character development regarding Samantha Wickersham...but once you read the book you will understand what I mean.    A good book to buy in addition to this one is The Lady Lies, by Samantha Saxon.	2005-06-28
US	42929046	R2SG4RKVZF6SM7	0060006633	727772184	A Perfect Hero	Books	4	18	20	N	N	The Highwayman takes a Bride!!!	Lady Juliana Sterling is scorned by love. A beautiful woman who is firmly on the shelf. She resolves to live her life alone, to never feel a child in her arms, and to spend the remainder of her days shielding her heart from that devestating emotion.      Viscount Dane Granville is posing as a highwayman called the Magpie while conducting an investigation for the Home Office.  Robbing Lady Juliana's carriage was just part of the role.  He didn't mean for Lady Juliana to get injured.  Guilt and duty required that he take Lady Juliana to his hideout in the woods.    While ensconced in that quite hideaway a delicate struggle between captor and captive begin.  Their attraction to each other is fierce.  They both fight emotions they know are inappropriate...will they ever work it out?     I do recommend this novel for it's quick delivery and good writing style.  The characters are easily likeable and the drama is good.  Also it practically smoulders off the page. A great way to spend an afternoon.     Why not 5 stars...well it's preference really.  I didn't need the highwayman to be a Viscount.  He really didn't need to have higher purposes.  He could have remained a criminal and somehow that would have made him more sexy. Also the type is so big it's about 5-8 words per line.  It really could be a 100 page novella.  Another great book to buy would be Samantha Saxon's The Lady Lies.	2005-06-28
US	42929046	R20F6JCR34EIT5	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Reread this story for the third time...thought I ought to review it!	The story begins as our heroine, Miss Elizabeth Hotchkiss,is searching for a book in Lady Danbury's library and she stumbles on a peculiar little red book entitled \\"How to Marry a Marquis\\". Just that morning she came to the disheartening conclusion that she would indeed need to marry, soon, in order to give her younger siblings food in their bellies. Finding a \\"How to\\" book was destiny. She discreetly tucks the book away and takes it home to read that night.      James, the nephew of Lady Danbury and not to mention the Marquis of Riverdale, is summoned post haste to assist his aunt with some troubling blackmail.  Lady Danbury feels it's best to conceal his true identity and therefore he becomes James Siddons, estate manager, while he conducts the investigation.     That's of course when he meets our heroine...    The sticky situations these characters get into is priceless. The witty banter is deliciously funny. This book is entirely carried by dialogue so charmingly particular to each character, that character descriptions are unnecessary because their manner of speech explains it all.   If you have ever seen the movie the Philadelphia Story, with Katherine Hepburn and Cary Grant, and enjoyed the witty dialogue and quick exchanges, YOU WILL LOVE THIS BOOK.  Oh! and I forgot to mention that this book is steamy! Great Book, by far one of Quinn's best works.	2005-06-28
US	42929046	R36FCDZE5EKCDG	0380756269	222985860	Man of My Dreams	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Man of My Dreams  is Dreamy...	Ambrose is hiding out from his best friend who wants to kill him for suppossedly defiling and impregnanting his sister.  At the advice of his grandmother he poses as a lowly horse breeder at the Penworthy estate.  However Penworthy estate has a very tempting occupant--a beautiful Megan Penworthy.  She is spirited and opinionated and finds herself at odds with Ambrose from the beginning.  They have heated fights that quickly turn into heated embraces. I really enjoyed this book.  The only reason it didn't get 5 stars was because Megan, at times, seemed a bit shallow and her arguements with Ambrose sometimes got on my nerves.	2005-06-26
US	42929046	R1I4VDH4G6MXM4	0671744208	407222975	Castles	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Castles delivers.	This is the sequel to the book The Gift (one of my favorite books).  Princess Alesandra, fresh from the covent school, is transported to England in order to find a husband in attempt to keep herself safe from the advances of a power hungry dictator General bent on over-running her home country by capitializing on the love the citizens had for her and her old ruling family.  She arrives to find her guardian, her father's best friend, is suffering an ailment and in order to prevent her becoming ill as well, he sends her to live at his son's house.  Colin is a confirmed bachelor who is suprised to find a beautiful woman living in his house.  He smells his father's matchmaking efforts from the beginning and immediately takes exception.  Nevertheless he gets into the spirit of things and agrees to help her find a husband.  However every fellow suggested is suddenly not good enough for her, and he finds himself fighting a powerful attraction...and burgeoning jealousy. I thought this was a lovely book.  Good story.	2005-06-26
US	42929046	RML6R1R431U1Y	0425203581	910370967	The Lady Lies (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	The Lady Lies is a MASTERPIECE!!!	YOU GOTTA READ THIS BOOK!!!!  Its a MUST.   From the opening paragraphs your get hooked.  The writing is superb.  The attention to nuances and dramatic's of body language is meticulous. It almost plays out in such detail that it is like a movie for your mind.     Lady Celeste Rivenhall is a spy, and as the story opens we find that Aidan, a solider and a viscount, has been captured and is being held in a French prison camp.  Celeste orchestrates a daring escape for Aidan all while pretending to be a French collaborator.  They have an instant attraction that makes the rest of the story sizzle.       I read a lot of romance novels but I have to say that this is a step above.  It has only a few expected remarks that all Regency era books have (ie the need for chaperones) and bravely follows its own path leading to Ms. Saxon's own style of intrigue and suspense.  She writes unapologetically tortured characters who suffer and die and writes evil villians so well that I could easily find myself seduced by the dark side. I am going to read everything this woman puts out.       (The only problem I had with the book, albeit minor, was that she used different names for the same person from paragraph to paragraph and sometimes it was hard to keep everyone straight. But then again...I am kinda a spaz.)	2005-06-26
US	42929046	R1ERHW5T7D7XHQ	084394952X	372620519	Dark Legend (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 7)	Books	1	2	7	N	N	Contradictions and exceptions that don't make sense.	Francesca is Carpathian.  However she is almost as weak as a kitten, and she walks in day light.      So...Feehan broke all her rules in order to make Francesca fit into her trademark heroine mould of a independant and strong woman who is then reduced to a defiantly, pitiful creature by the Carpathian male.      NEXT...it makes no sense that Gabriel didn't know his lifemate when she was near.  Hello?? All her other books are based on them knowing right away.      It is also the same repititive descriptions that don't differ from book to book.  Her books are less about the romance of the characters (except in the very beginning of every book) and more about the man protecting his helpless female who constantly gets into trouble because she won't accept his control.	2005-06-26
US	42929046	R1Y13X9A09RHII	0505525208	286191135	Come To Me	Books	3	4	4	N	N	For what it is ...it was pretty good.	Samira, one of the lowliest creatures of the night, devoid of emotions except for those she can glean from the dreams of men, finds herself, after thousands of years of living, curious about the mortal world.  After some manipulatons of another night demon Theron...she gets to cure that curiosity.  She is turned mortal and meets Nicolae...a broken, scared, man banished to a crumbling fortress.  Samira learns that she is responsible, through some dreams given to a rival, for his banishment and has to set things aright.  Along the way a passionate romance blossoms where in each others arms they find healing.  Why only 3 stars...I don't like things that are blantantly written so they can pack in as much sex a possible.  If your into that sort of thing this is a steamy book just for you. And just to contradict myself, I liked the writing style so much I bought the sequel. Go Figure.	2005-06-26
US	42929046	R2KIC6NR6S0CVE	038079747X	681868285	The Pirate Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Expected something more from such an original plot.	Sara was a reformist with her eye on exposing the travesty of the English Penal system. She set sail under the guise of a teacher on a female convict ship bound for New Wales Australia. While en route they are set upon by pirates who inform the convict ladies that they are being freed...with a catch.  The ladies must choose amongst pirates a husband. Sara is immediately taken with the Pirate Lord Gideon and the familiar fighting ensues.  It all leads up to a few steamy encounters...a few more fights...and the eventual marriage. On the basis of the romance alone I would give it 5 stars...On the descriptive and supporting stories...I would give it a 1 star.  I needed more from this book.  They were beginning a new life on an essentially deserted island.  They must have had some difficulties adjusting.  Was it hot? Was there more than just one little poisonous snake?  Did they even hear the roiling waves as the crashed against the beach they were living on?  Were they even living on the beach? What happened to the stuffy petticoats?  Did Sara begin to tan?  Did anyone notice the tan when she went back to England?  What about the other convict ladies and children how were they getting on with their pirate prospects?  Too many missed opportunities to make the story more real in my mind. It could have been a one of the best  stories but I needed more.	2005-06-24
US	42929046	R3UFYBT97SFWID	0380818043	90358606	After the Abduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 3)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Parts were good...parts fell flat.	Sebastian is the lord of a great manor, a man of responsiblity, a man of character, who in one desperate moment two years prior abducted Lady Juliet. Lady Juliet was tricked by a man whom she found attractive, who wisked her off suppossedly to Gretna Green only to realize along the way that it was just an \\"regular\\" abduction to use her in a plot to save Sebastian's twin brother Morgan. During this time they obviously make an impression on each other because when they meet again the sparks fly. I only thought this book deserved three stars because I was frustrated with some of the arguements.  I was siding more often with Sebastian, who seemed sensible and less often with Juliet--her sides of the arguement were unreasonably childish.  Also the lying that Sebastian, Lady Rosland (a supporting character, Juliet's sister) did bothered me quite a bit as well.	2005-06-23
US	42929046	R321MG55492L1K	0060092130	43840938	Dance of Seduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 4)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	When an author gets the hero right...no explanation needed.	Lady Clara is a spinster 28 year old who is involved in charity work at a home for pickpocket children.  Morgan is an ex-spy naval captian who is posing as a \\"fence\\" in order to catch a master thief named Spector.  They are at odds from the beginning, fighting a powerful attraction, and losing quickly. The interchanges between the two main characters are so witty and funny I couldn't resist liking them immediately. The part of the story I really enjoyed is Morgan's desperation for Clara's love.  It made the hot scenes practical smoulder on the page.  A nice departure from the norm because Morgan is a strong man totally undone.  So romantic..sigh...   <br />**A note to the publisher...I would never have bought the book at the store with that ridiculous cover.  I missed out reading a marvelous book for two years because of that cover.  The only reason you need a bodice ripper cover is because the book is SO awful no one is going to read it except for the sex. Sabina Jefferies deserves a cover like Julia Quinn or Lisa Kleypas.  she writes just that good.	2005-06-20
US	42929046	RMMM24THSWW41	0373227825	451117653	Her Royal Bodyguard (Harlequin Intrigue No. 782)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good writing style	My first Harlequin had me thinking about the series writers mindset.  This book was effeciently wrapped up with no fillers or lags.  I kept thinking about its economy and that the author turns out several novels a year. They must have it down to a formulaic science.  And having said all that ...I enjoyed this book.  Rory and Laurent have good chemistry from the beginning and the mystery of the assasination attempts lent a quality of danger. This novel was a good way to spend two hours.	2005-06-19
US	42929046	R32KCE2QOU6Q5H	1416505458	319639744	Marriage Most Scandalous	Books	2	32	47	N	N	Plot most Implausable.	Sebastian duels with and kills his best friend, personal chaos ensues and his family disowns him.  Sebastian's guilt causes him to leave the country becoming a successful mercenary for higher and a black hearted scoundrel. Then he is convinced to return home by a beautiful heroine named Margaret, a neighbor who admired him as a child, in order to investigate the possible attempts on his OWN father's life. So here is where it gets implausable: Margaret is just a neighbor. Not even a close one. It is highly improbable that an unwed woman would traipse about Europe for many months on behalf of this family. Sebastians family is cold and unlikeable.  Secondly the need for Sebastian to become \\"Henry Raven\\" and pretend that he and Margaret are married to his own family....seemed a contrived excuse to get them in bed together and not a real necessity for plot progression. Also Sebastian showed no affection for Margaret except to gaze warmly after sex...otherwise he was cold. I wasn't made to believe they even liked each other beyond lust. And not to give it away but at the end of the story you learn that all the suffering through-out the book was for NOTHING!!!  If I were him I would have truely committed the crime for which he was accused. I was merely an Okay read...nothing I am ever going to read again. A good book to get instead of this one is by a new author Samantha Saxon, called the Lady Lies.  Totally blew me away.	2005-06-14
US	42929046	R1H51NYWT3PMWT	0671702505	721186357	The Gift	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Damn it, Sara!	I usually don't require that laughter be a part of any romance novel I read...but I was almost embarrassed by the perpetual smile I had on my face while reading this book.  It has to be one of the best books I have ever read.  Sara, the bumbling, innocent heroine I didn't get at first, but after I realized that her demeanor was all a coping mechanism that she developed while dealing with her horrid family.  Well I couldn't help but love her cluelessness.  Nathan was a marvelous hero...sigh.  You know when an author gets a hero right...there is no explaination needed.  I loved this book.	2005-06-14
US	42929046	R29EDTXRZMFIRB	0380016974	212845954	Captive Bride	Books	1	11	19	N	N	Put your tongue between your lips and blow...RASPBERRY!	Other good uses for this book is: doorjamb, kindling, moping up a wet spill, shred it for kitty litter, tear out the pages and use them while cleaning your windows for that streak-free shine.  I must be fair and mention that this is one of her first novels.  It shows.  She could probably re-write it again with her skills now as a writer and come up with something better.	2005-06-14
US	42929046	R14VYHUTZDULSE	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	My first Enoch...	This book starts out with a group of ladies describing the qualities they would like to teach a man in order to be the perfect gentleman...then that part of the plot drops off.  Then the book seems to begin again with a completely new story of Evie, the heroine, beginning to volunteer at an orphange in which she meets the hero Saint. I hated Saint at first. All the passion he felt for Evie seemed forced and contrived. I also was a bit confused with many of the supporting characters because by their names and initial descriptions I understood them to be much older than Evie's 23 years...and once I had the characters envisioned...they are described as being as young as she is. I was about to quit reading this book and thats when the book took a \\"9 to 5\\" detour (if you saw the movie you will understand) and got very interesting. Even funny.  I found the second half of the book completely enjoyable and understandable. It more than made up for the sloppy beginning. All in all I think her editor should get fired because this gal can write.  She just needs proof reading.	2005-06-08
US	42929046	R2LIK9ZCNFQYBP	0345480090	111700648	One Night of Sin: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Anxiously awaited tale	Alec had been a secondary character in many of Gaelen Foley's previous Knight novels.  He was always witty and charming with a devil may care attitude but he had one very bad problem-- compulsive gambling.  I wondered how Foley would pull turning this loser into a great hero but she did. This book was witty, complex, well structured. I loved the heroine. Hated the villian.  Laughed often and worried at all the right moments. And not to mention this book is also quite steamy.    Bravo!	2005-06-08
US	42929046	RK5ECN8L3T02W	0060513640	301232992	One Night of Scandal (Fairleigh Sisters)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Starts with a bang ends with a whimper.	The beginning the book was superb.  Hayden was smitten to say the least...Lottie was also intrigued and curious about this dashing, murderering marquess. The characters were instantly likeable that I was sure that the rest of the book would be equally so.  That is until he marries her and takes her home and things turn really bad.  His kid made me nuts, his emotional scars was so convoluted it was ridiculous.  I was so sick of this guy and his problems by the end of the story I was hoping she would high-tail it out of there. Grrr...this could have been a great book ...man was I disappointed.	2005-06-04
US	42929046	RE4GO4J6NU9ZZ	0380793342	271652627	The Heir (Reid Family)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I loved Sabrina and Duncan...and oddly Ophelia too.	Sabrina is a funny,likeable gal, who is full figured, somewhat dowdy, and has stunning eyes.  Duncan is a sexy, young, red-headed Highlander newly arrived to England with a chip on his shoulder.  When they meet they form an instant kinship. What starts as friends between a man and women...predictably ends up with a little feel better sex...and whalla!  You get your romance...then things get messy.  Hearts get broken. People are manipulated.  Its great. The saving grace in this story is Ophelia, she is the gal you'll love to hate.  A pure narcissist.  She stirs things up well and makes up for some what lack of passion between the two main characters.   This is a good book because I didn't feel that Duncan was in one way sleezy and Sabrina was just...shall I say familiar to myself?  Maybe that is telling too much.  Needless to say I kept my fingers crossed for her.	2005-06-04
US	42929046	R1UHRX0EEYEZ2E	0380725711	745711270	Say You Love Me (Malory, No. 5)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Keep on loving the Malory's	I liked this book because Derek was a good guy.  I instantly liked him. I liked that he had a close family and good support system.  Some people were turned off because he wasn't more of the Alpha male, but I thought it was rather attractive that he had a clan so to speak.  I liked Kelsey but I felt that her story was a bit weak.  A lady sold into prosititution to the highest bidder to save her sister from not getting a season or a good marriage match? Doesn't wash. It didn't really sit well with me especially since I really felt she could have been the ultra proud Scarlet O'hara type. Her aunt, her sister, and she could have all become seamstresses...etc.  As for continuation of the Malory story..there isn't much continuation so you could take or leave this book in the series.	2005-06-04
US	42929046	R2KPFX8E0JLVL9	0380762587	921465515	You Belong to Me (Cardinia's Royal Family)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Alexandra...the stinky bride.	I thought that Vasili met his match when he met Alexandra.  She stayed stinky and dirty throughout most of the book just to keep him away. Vasili the reputed ladykiller was put through his paces.  They fight for most of the book.  It did get a little old but once Alexandra began threatening Vasili's paramours with violence I really couldn't help but be amused. I would have given more stars if the speech had made me believe that they were speaking Russian.  The story could have taken place in Minnesota in winter for all I could tell.	2005-06-04
US	42929046	RT5CKJ3CDOLHU	0060514140	199043522	Marry the Man Today	Books	1	6	8	N	N	I was lost for most of the book!	Each chapter opens with a scene that is poorly developed with  action and details I was forced to decipher. It made me wonder if I skipped a few pages of exposition.  Needham tried to write a mystery/romance.  But the only mystery was her plot. Also I didn't like the bickering of the femminist heroine Elizabeth.  She was annoying. This book is a definite raspberry (stick your tongue out and blow).	2005-06-04
US	42929046	R2VYXAM1SED31H	0345480090	111700648	One Night of Sin: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One Night of Sin...is pure Heaven!!!	Having been a huge fan of Ms. Foley I was very familiar with Alec.  Even though Alec has always been quite charming...he was also a bit of a failure.  A total disappointment to his family. A compulsive gambler, broke, trying to maintain a facade of wealth by selling off his possessions and as this story opened we see that Alec has finally had enough of his destructive ways and that is when he meets Rebecca.  A girl in trouble. The characters are complicated and multifacted...the prose is delightful. The story is taught and moves quickly.  An excellent book.	2005-06-02
US	42929046	R1G5OJ2D0HHM0W	0380753022	43989638	Gentle Rogue (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	BEST of the BEST!!!!!	I LOVED this book ...absolutely loved it.  There wasn't a lag  to be found in the tightly wound, action packed, funny, terribly romantic, and wonderful novel.  I rarely say anthing is super great...but this book is SOOOO GREAT.  It definitely deserves more stars. James Malory and Georgie were so beautifully described you couldn't help but identify with them. Definitely a re-read.	2005-05-15
US	42929046	R1LH7YQJIG6AKZ	0743456300	416110244	A Loving Scoundrel: A Malory Novel (Malory-Anderson Family)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A most pleasurable read!  My first Malory	I swore off this author after getting through her novel the Captive Bride...but I am so glad I gave her another chance.  This novel was delightful. I thought the gender mix ups were quite amusing.  I especially enjoyed the continuation of the supporting characters from the other Malory novels that I bought the whole set of other books and dived right in.  Amazing book!!!  And a note to the publishers:  Great covers! They sold the books.  I would never stomach the shame of having a bodice ripper cover at the check out counter.	2005-05-15
US	42929046	R3825GT2V7XJBW	0380750864	129758344	Tender Rebel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Anthony .....sigh.	I enjoyed this book because Anthony is a Rake.   And not a rake because of some horrible secret...he has no despondant past...he just loves women.  I loved that it wasn't Roslynn's job to fix him in anyway.  I hated that he came home with a blonde hair on his coat...I couldn't have delightfully skipped over that half of the story but in the end they are in love ...exactly how it is supposed to be...Good book.	2005-05-15
US	42929046	R90PML8XO6TKF	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Liked the Agressive Gal!	If you skipped over the age related parts of the novel...its a very good book.  But it does seem kind of creepy to have a 17 year old kid and a mid thirty year old man to have attraction. Of course I wouldn't have thought so much of it had Warren not taken such offense to it.  There have been huge differences in ages in other novels that didn't bother me at all. I liked that Amy was aggressive...but when they kept mentioning her age...well then it transformed into childish antics.  BUT like I said if you skip over the mentions of the age difference...I thought the book was excellent.   I didn't even mind Warren's constantly bellowing having become aquainted with him in the Gentle Rogue novel. ALSO you must read Gentle Rogue and Tender Rebel first so that you catch up on their stories. This is a totally worth while read.	2005-05-15
US	42929046	R1W1EYBSVHWY3T	0451214838	166167012	The Veil of Night (Signet Eclipse)	Books	5	4	9	N	N	It was the storm...	Lydia Joyce is a wonderful author.  She weaves a tale so dark and self-discovering that its ugliness becomes beautiful.  It is not a book for those interested in the simple romance...although it is romance.  It is based in real feelings. Feelings that are neither right nor wrong but simply are.  I cite the first romantic interlude in which the female heroine, Victoria, is almost unraveling at the hero's touch...her thoughts stray in a sort of chanting lament, mourning for all that she had given up to be safe in her life.  I know my thoughts have been just as complicated in a few instances in my life.  I also say to those who thought the dialogue was boring didn't understand that this was a story of two very calculating and controlled people and that they should find when the speech becomes more out of control, and less planned, it is a kind of reward for each of the characters.  And for us too... I could feel the storm outside the windows as well.  It was like a third main character.  This was one of the best books I read...reminscent of Daphne Du Maurier---only less pretentious and more modern.	2005-04-21
US	42929046	R105GY3RQA387D	0843955287	21482417	Dark Prince (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 1)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Bought the re-issue copy	You would think that since this was a reprint from the 1999 issue they would have fixed the typos.  Anywho...This book was one of the better Feehan reads.  Feehan kept the sometimes nauseating and overused terms of endearment to just one. Plus she had fewer descriptive fillers and stuck closer to an actual story for this one. And I could really believe that the characters might have had some affection for each other unlike some of her other books.  I really enjoyed the hints of the story to come for Gregori.  All in all if your a fan this is one of the better books....and if your like me ...a reluctant reader trying to pick apart good vampire stories...well it's Okay.	2005-04-06
US	42929046	R2E67ZVYVFN1BO	0671023578	793793081	Remembrance	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deeply Touching	I cried.  I cheered.  I was frustrated.  Reading the back cover for this novel was very misleading...the novel is a much more intense and lovely read than it is described.  This is a masterpiece of character development and story progression.  My only compliant was I wanted to read just a few more pages about the romance between the two at the end of the novel.  I didn't want the story to end.	2005-03-27
US	42929046	R269G804GMBFVE	0671742558	7794510	Almost Heaven: A Novel (The Sequels series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Judith doesn't disappoint	I really enjoy when  Judith takes the time to really introduce her heroines, so that when she finally gets her socks knocked off by Ian Thornton you can easily identify with every blush and nuance of emotion.  Almost Heaven is reminescent of Whitney my Love and Kingdom of Dreams, also two superb books.  You won't regret this purchase.	2005-03-14
US	42929046	R139ED5DVV7JGP	0060091290	575112977	Secrets of a Summer Night (The Wallflowers, Book 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Simon Hunt is dreamy!	I am suprised that this novel didn't get more 5 star ratings and this is why...This is a superb novel, it is quick paced, good use of language, and you can instantly like the characters. I think that if you judge Secrets of a Summer Night against her other novels you will see that they are right up to par.  She is simply the best out there.	2005-03-13
US	42929046	R1T5RS6BD17NPW	0778321509	273399540	Blue Twilight (Twilight Series Book 11)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Blue Twilight falls short	Being a book in the Twilight series you have a certain expectation: that the two main characters -one being human the other being vampire- will fall in love.  Lou and Max, both human, are simply two characters that frankly I skipped over in the previous novels because their story didn't hold my interest.  Now if this novel was not packaged in the Twilight series cover it would have been a GREAT book.  I was just expecting what I was accustomed to.  The vampire plot line was, however, a bit weak. The opening scene, in which he dines upon the tasty neck of his victim laid foundation for a really complex character...but then he became this weak wuss.  I hope Ms. Shayne realizes that I can fall in love with a bad guy...even evil guy...and makes him more tortured in the next book.	2005-03-10
US	42929046	R2NPE2O9OYMM5A	0425201503	155338924	Mr. Impossible	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not enough descriptions about the characters	Loretta Chase is an excellent writer. Being that I have never been to Egypt, I have no reference for understanding some parts of the story.  The characters became somehow lost in the overwhelming details of their surroundings that I had difficulty piecing together.  This story could have been told in several hundred more pages...perhaps that would have helped. I think that some editor realizing her talent convinced her to market her works in neat little 350 or so page dittys...When she could easily write a thousand page Gabaldon type novel and that would better tell her stories.  We were short changed of a potentially marvelous experience.	2005-03-10
US	42929046	RHTSRXBVBK6WI	0743477715	408829674	To Pleasure a Prince (Royal Brotherhood, Book 2)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great read	This book has as much romantic tension as an old Hollywood movie (ie Philadelphia Story)...where people talked and fought with a quick wit and sound resolve.  This book is a great character driven love affair. Thanks for the great afternoon Ms. Jefferies.	2005-03-09
US	42929046	R2W5E0KJ7MZQHF	0515138851	207294636	Dark Secret (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 12)	Books	1	11	21	N	N	Clinical Recipe for Abusive Relationship	I keep reading Feehan novels hoping for that spark of something different.  I like vampire romance and even the premise is good...but then it falls short each and every time with mindless descriptions and fillers. You could almost read this book's dialogue alone and completely understand the story.  When there is a clever avenue for her to explore she halts--then sticks with the over used \\"panther like grace, mesmerizing voice\\" descriptions.  Does she even proof-read...one paragraph pretty much repeats the last. And lets stop for a moment to realize that her characters are not in love...the men suffer from a strange co-dependent psychosis.  If a man ever treated me that way I would run--fast. Abusers always say they love you while they are beating you...and these main characters are abusers.  Everytime the female lead wants to get away the male character says: \\"I don't think you realize how strong I am, I would never let you go.\\"  Thats a threat if I ever heard one.  Alarms!!!!  If you think this stuff is sexy you probably met your boyfriends in a biker bar because it's not.  ALSO its lame how every problem can be fixed with stupid powers...hardly have a story at all when everything can be fixed by some trick.	2005-02-09
US	42929046	R1HON7CBZ6SLA4	0385338252	453044037	The Immortal Highlander	Books	2	9	13	N	N	A much anticipated let down	I was really let down.  Her series had been one of my absolute favorites and it seemed that she just went for the quick sell.  Maybe it was the pressure of coming out in hard back.  Also it was far too few pages.  One of her earlier novels had a preview of what she had been working on for the Adam Black novel but that was not what she wrote.  Please Ms. Moning, a most fervent plea:  Try again.  I really enjoy your books and know you have got that special something, this just wasn't it...	2005-02-05
US	42929046	R3NF4O2ZWH2OVY	0843950498	219046915	Dark Melody (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 10)	Books	1	7	14	N	N	Meet the Climax of the book at the beginning	If your interested in character development this is not the book for you.  I was enjoying about the first 20 pages or so but fell into a drowsy stupor during overly dramatic lengthy descriptions about the two main characters romance. After 40 pages they were hooked on each other without any interesting conflict and the rest of the story is BLAH BLAH BLAH boring. Save your money, get a different book.	2004-01-05
US	42929046	RKWFD492YJHQQ	0515113514	569829984	Lord of Raven's Peak (Viking Series)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Are we reading a rough draft?	Just in the first few paragraphs alone she makes the same point about the smell of the slave market not being quite as strong because of the cool weather 3 times.  It seemed like a redundant effort to fill pages with nonsensical information.  If she had a better editor who helped her catch these errors she could concentrate on making an even deeper more rich story which I believe she desperately wants to accomplish.  Sorry to say I won't be reading another of her stories again.	2003-08-26
US	42929046	R3HKSJM5Y552PL	0440212561	983256815	Outlander	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Outlander	Dived right in, the most pleasent part of this book aside from the fantastic story line and great characters is that it doesn't have a lot of mindless fillers to skim over.  Every page is important and every sub-plot has real value. I found myself after several hours of reading and growing tension wanting to skip ahead and find out how it ends, but it ruins the details. The details are savory and not at all to be missed. Being that I am a die hard quicky romance novel lover the size was a bit daunting, I worried it was a bit too scholastic for my daytime reading tastes, but the pages turn quickly and then I realized that 850 pages weren't enough. I am happy to recommend this to everyone.	2003-04-09
