US	42925694	R1YZWS2XM0C7R2	1593090390	845668304	Fate's Redemption	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Story of Redeeming Value!	Three distinct personalities intertwined within a storyline filled with suspense and intrigue sets the stage for celebrated storyteller Keith Lee Johnson in his latest literary offering, Fate's Redemption.  Brothers Jericho, Sterling, and William Wise's stories are told with vivid colors and enough blends to paint a canvas full of contrast. Mayhem, murder and mischief is par for the course as life has dealt them very different hands. Jericho whom we met in Little Black Girl Lost is a drug and munitions dealer, and the leader of an elite group of former military personnel. To the author's credit, this story is character-driven with each entity having enough panache individually to bring a collective set of drama to add fuel to fires simmering, and those raging out of control. Sterling was one of the principal characters in Johnson's Pretenses, a conscientious and gifted attorney who inexplicably is fired from his prestigious San Francisco law firm just before anticipation of victory that would have brought notoriety.  William, widowed, aloof and cynical is a psychologist and the youngest Wise brother, who is feeling the pangs associated with the loss of his wife. Compound that with the realization that love comes knocking again in the form of a co-worker determined to net a fine catch.<br /><br />Taking the synopsis of each, the author gives plausible reason to make this a page-turning delight by introducing a spell-binding plot, moving metaphor, and the back story adding more color for a rich setting. What makes this book a winner is the author going to certain extremes not explored in any of previous works. To wit: Terry Moretti, the woman William considers a thorn is white with a definite agenda to land the noted psychologist amid real and imagined racial angst.  This is enough to keep William from making a commitment. Jericho, with drugs and political implications threatening to seal his fate comes to a fork in his road where decision must be made for a better journey ahead.  Sterling is dealt a seemingly better hand but will have to also make an important decision when he meets a mysterious woman who offers him the world -- is this a deal that he can`t refuse? What price must he pay if he either fails or turns her down?<br /><br />Keith Lee Johnson's penchant for good dialogue and alternating chapters focusing on each brother, captivates and gives reason to want to allow continuity to be the better choice in lieu of ennui setting in. He gives readers perhaps a chance to place him finally among his peers writing similar drama for legitimacy and longing fan support, managing to weave a diverse, yet entertaining saga. This book is a must read to understand how far this writer has come to write across the board from past familiarity. I've read two previous books by him and in my opinion this one has more depth and clarity. I highly recommend this book as it should give rhyme and reason to add one more thought-provoking author to the annals of mystery and suspenseful drama.urney ahead.  Sterling is dealt a seemingly better hand but will have to also make an important decision when he meets a mysterious woman who offers him the world -- is this a deal that he can`t refuse? What price must he pay if he either fails or turns her down?<br /><br />Keith Lee Johnson's penchant for good dialogue and alternating chapters focusing on each brother, captivates and gives reason to want to allow continuity to be the better choice in lieu of ennui setting in. He gives readers perhaps a chance to place him finally among his peers writing similar drama for legitimacy and longing fan support, managing to weave a diverse, yet entertaining saga. This book is a must read to understand how far this writer has come to write across the board from past familiarity. I've read two previous books by him and in my opinion this one has more depth and clarity. I highly recommend this book as it should give rhyme and reason to add one more thought-provoking author to the annals of mystery and suspenseful drama.	2005-08-08
US	42925694	R1PQEBJ4XX2G4S	0312324294	517053561	Like the First Time: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Inspiring love and teamwork for a Blissful business!	Is there any thing else to be said about Francis Ray that haven't already been articulated about her writing? Accolades notwithstanding, now comes the latest of a trail laden with evidence of things seen and brazenly reported upon - that when it comes to real page-turners, Ms Ray takes a back seat to none. Her current novel, Like the First Time gives us much of what we've become accustomed to with this author. I read it and enjoyed every page marveling at how a simple set of circumstances can weave a heart-felt string of persevered resolve into a kaleidoscope of success for the heroines of this story. The aforementioned is the gist of why I feel readers will embrace the story wholeheartedly. Follow me as I set the stage for this drama: Enter Claire Bennet and Brooke Dunlop, two thirds of a triumvirate femme-fatale living a life in the fragile world of corporate America hoping to eke out an existence for status quo. This, amid the sudden loss of their jobs forces a reevaluation of their lives and relationships.  The third part of this group is Lorraine Averhart, a woman under a cloud of uncertainty from a misbelieving husband.<br />I really enjoyed this read. So much so, that I think this would be a great copy for would-be entrepreneurs to follow the blueprint set aside by the desires of these three enterprising women who with much trial and tribulation, struggle to become successful in love and in the corporate world. All it takes is to know and understand how an author such as Ms Ray can write such poignant stories that seem to hit us squarely in the middle in letting reality become the barometer in measuring truism. I hope readers see the in-depth research it took to write a story so compelling, with good characterization and a storyline that transcends to another level with each ebb and flow. We witness the mannerisms of each entity and what makes them different, but yet so apropos for this tale. Brooke is a head-strong, a bit conceited but confident in her ability to attract men, who becomes susceptible to the properties and power of true love. Claire shows unfamiliarity with romance but shows a resolve when it's time to allow muted affection play the vital role in her taming uncharted ground. Lorraine, who has always supported her husband, finds the going rougher when she realizes that her husband does not share her dream.<br />It is the telling of a story where the distaff side comes to fruition with a dream, where determined grit graduates to assume the wherewithal for success, even amid the angst of getting there! If you've ever strived to attain a dream using teamwork, read this book for pointers. If for no other reason than to know that it's no fun without having to share sucess with, Francis Ray allows her knack for dispensing anticipated intimacy to interact favorably with the aforementioned for this page turner to be exactly like the first time! We always look forward to any Francis Ray book, and this one doesn't disappoint.ity to attract men, who becomes susceptible to the properties and power of true love. Claire shows unfamiliarity with romance but shows a resolve when it's time to allow muted affection play the vital role in her taming uncharted ground. Lorraine, who has always supported her husband, finds the going rougher when she realizes that her husband does not share her dream. <br />It is the telling of a story where the distaff side comes to fruition with a dream, where determined grit graduates to assume the wherewithal for success, even amid the angst of getting there! If you've ever strived to attain a dream using teamwork, read this book for pointers. If for no other reason than to know that it's no fun without having to share sucess with, Francis Ray allows her knack for dispensing anticipated intimacy to interact favorably with the aforementioned for this page turner to be exactly like the first time! We always look forward to any Francis Ray book, and this one doesn't disappoint.	2004-06-20
US	42925694	R2VF3VIQI1Q1RV	0967694256	21537495	What Is Forever?	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An inspiring read from an up and coming author!	Joel McIver, no stranger to good fiction writing brings us an interesting tale told from the perspective of three women from entirely different backgrounds with different agendas. Meet Alexis, Tara and Keisha, the femme fatale of this story who endeavors to love the same man. Alexis appear to have it all - beauty, intelligence, a businesswoman, but with an aura that suggests that she'd be too much for any man who doesn't have it together himself; Keisha, a single mom who still has skeletons in the closet and is burdened by guilt; and, last but not least is Tara, who is dealing with a self-identity complex of never being really accepted in the world she has created for herself. The author tells a poignant story in getting all of the intrigue to segue into a movable and thoughtful storyline where the characters seem so realistic. Title notwithstanding, the question is asked &quot;what is forever?&quot; I'm not sure this is answered in any tangible way, but the author impresses me enough to say that he is in tune with a harmonious chorus giving credence to the nuances of three women loving the same man. Thus, it didn't detract from what the author wanted to portray here.<br />The gist of the story centers around the imagery and portrayal of these women who only want Damon Black, a decent, handsome, and hardworking professional male who's not perfect, but seem to be what cures all of the girls' problems in their eyes. Damon has agendas of his own and must weigh the cost of choosing the right woman despite the challenges and idiosyncratic disposition of each of them.  Should he marry Alexis, continue the deep sense of responsibility to Keisha, the mother of his daughter, or cater to Tara, whom he feels suffers from a lack of self-esteem and needs him most importantly of all?  It's storytelling like this that tend to set writers apart in allowing the skill of directing a story as a triad in letting the web of influence speak for itself.<br />I recommend this book for the flavor it brings and to give the African-American reading public yet another voice to be reckoned with among his peers. It was a well-written and astounding portrayal of trust, honesty and commitment, and a true definition of what is forever in the author's mind. Read it yourself and perhaps you will see what's forever in the foreseeable future for this up and coming young writer.flavor it brings and to give the African-American reading public yet another voice to be reckoned with among his peers. It was a well-written and astounding portrayal of trust, honesty and commitment, and a true definition of what is forever in the author's mind. Read it yourself and perhaps you will see what's forever in the foreseeable future for this up and coming young writer.	2004-06-20
US	42925694	R1F6XFIDN52U2B	0312301545	880462202	One Day I Saw a Black King: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A superb work of fiction!	One Day I Saw A Black King<br />by J.D. Mason<br />Lest we forget the compelling nature of a good story where poignancy meets poetic prowess, and when angst transforms to accept accord, literary tranquility can always define the aforementioned without missing a beat. Quickly on the heels (and none too soon) of her last book (On The Eight Day She Rested), author J.D. Mason has given us another just like the other one with her newest release, One Day I Saw A Black King. Character-driven stories with personnel strong in conviction, clarifying setting to determine tone and tenor, this is a story with all of the elements indicative to keep you riveted in your choice to read this book. It's audible with just the right decibels to let you hear the author depict why she can write to be heard through her characters.<br />This is more than just a common thread of thought uniting the discourse of this novel. Mason's book weaves an incredible but believable tale of people journeying to empowerment, casting aside the constraints of freedom, and the confidence to love again. It's about love lost, love imagined, and love gone wrong. Therein you will find the author delving into and interweaving the rudiments of child molestation, adoption, child abandonment, prostitution, and all the trials identifying with protagonistic characters, Connie and John.<br />John, the product of a mother raped and subsequent disfellowship from the familial fold by a guilt-ridden grandmother, is forced to start life on the run. A mother he never knew is the fodder to credence to explore the past to understand the future. Connie, a taciturn and bitter child was wise beyond her years as her mother abandoned her and a younger sibling. Forced in the life of prostitution, she too endeavored to find sanctity in a world unforgiving and less accepting, but manages to live to learn what it truly meant to love unconditionally.<br />Despite its slow beginning and without concrete bonding leading up to the crux of the story, the author in lieu of opting to give immediacy to such strong characters, decided to craft a detailed storyline to illustrate several points of view to give the story foundation one would definitely appreciate as the real story unfold. This work coupled with her debut novel, will solidify J.D. Mason a safe rung on the ladder to the top, proving to be on equal footing with her peers with this sophmore effort. Read this book and you will see why I give it five stars and wished for more!he story, the author in lieu of opting to give immediacy to such strong characters, decided to craft a detailed storyline to illustrate several points of view to give the story foundation one would definitely appreciate as the real story unfold. This work coupled with her debut novel, will solidify J.D. Mason a safe rung on the ladder to the top, proving to be on equal footing with her peers with this sophmore effort. Read this book and you will see why I give it five stars and wished for more!	2004-06-20
US	42925694	R244L90EBLRIZX	075820468X	808843697	The Honey Well	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Read this book!!	Gloria Mallette in the short space of four novels has managed to establish herself solidly among peers writing for the African-American literature set. With her first three novels (Weeping Willows Dance, Shades Of Jade, and Promises To Keep) Ms Mallette has done nothing to dispel that she shouldn't be a member of the club. Her fourth and current work confirms it. Now comes The Honey Well, which in my opinion, is easily the author's best work yet.  It provides a subject matter rendered familiar in our society but unconventional by anyone else at this point writing about it.  Every now and then you may come across a novel that will hold your rapt attention and allow artistic value to augment a good story - The Honey Well is all of that and more!<br />Unlike the usual spate of books being churned out by authors of color, which tend to entertain but not be overly satisfying, I think the way this story is told it gives new meaning to dementia, decadence, and disillusioned goals in the eyes of how we see how money and power governs one of the main characters. This is a story of vaginal monologues and penile projections...armed with stimulating foreplay, the usual call & response interaction that brings it to a rousing climax! The Honey Well is deep. It resonates by taking a look into an authors' imagination about the world's oldest profession and a woman's prerogative to exploit, demean, and cater to self-serving goals. Esther imposes her will on her 16-year-old adolescent daughter, Arnell with a vile and unfathomable request to sleep with their old Jewish landlord, so as not to be evicted. This request manifested into reluctant career for Arnell, and a profitable one for Esther. The fact that Arnell became a high priced prostitute and Esther became her pimping madam gave a compelling reason for wrongs to be shifted, and rights to be uplifted as Arnell goes about taking control of her life subsequently.<br />The Honey Well is the name given to a brothel by its distinguished customers and serve to be central point of the novel.  The Madam is 'Queen' Esther who vows to keep the upper hand on anyone who threaten to 'mess with my money\\". Esther easily manages to be the character you'll love to hate. What type of mother would force her 16 - year daughter to be introduced to prostitution, or one that would defy the laws of morality involving familial order and ethical decency? With great insight, imagination and a remarkable eye for detail, the author breathes life into her characters. Listen as she describes her brood and her place of business: \\"The Honey Well is a classy house, in a classy neighborhood. My girls are attractive, well groomed, well polished, and have at least a high school diploma...and a few have college degrees. None have ever stood on street corners, and none have ever used drugs. They are all ladies! Each have at least a two-room suite or a large single room in this mansion, and they can use this address as their legal residence. Even those less-cultured individuals who consider my establishment the oldest profession would have to agree that it has class!\\"<br />I couldn't fine a negative about this book, other than the fact that it ended too soon! The authors' attempt at a subplot could have been enhanced, but to do so would have taken away from the ambiance of the story itself. Albeit, the well-developed scenarios gave credence to the other characters that are reinforced, complex and flawed, the abusive mother-daughter relationship was depicted to show contrast. However, the characters of Esther and her daughter Arnell are so strong that the supporting cast is rendered cameo-like, but the author manages to show her skill at blending them seamlessly within the fabric at hand in weave an outstanding storyline. The dysfunctional realm reaches record lows as introductions of blackmail, revenge, backstabbing, and double-crossing lines of deceit adds flavor. Battle royals are fought throughout. This is truly a page-turner,which forces you to want Arnell to triumph and bring order to chaos. This writer is rapidly becoming a favorite of mine. The Honey Well just shows how important it is to think out of the box and find topics that can be the genesis of a good story. This novels flow with imagery and color. I'm looking forward to what is next on her palette.er, which forces you to want Arnell to triumph and bring order to chaos. This writer is rapidly becoming a favorite of mine. The Honey Well just shows how important it is to think out of the box and find topics that can be the genesis of a good story. This novels flow with imagery and color. I'm looking forward to what is next on her palette.	2004-01-26
US	42925694	RS18Y2UHEWCET	0738861251	505291565	The Climate : A Perspective Unvisited	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Viewing Inclement Weather	The Climate: A Perspective Unvisited  by Pearl Jr.<br /><br />The ills of the world and the plight people of color have had to contend with millennium after millennium of trying to exact what is wrong with the state of our being. It's a consensus among academe and anyone who share this mindset that change for the aforementioned is not only inevitable, but needed. Pearl Jr., the author of The Climate: A Perspective Unvisited gives unique and introspective analysis delving into the genesis of cultural apathy throughout years of neglect as it pertain to the social order of human rights, the complexities of race relations of the world, and civil race relations on the domestic front. I read it with mixed emotion. The assertion that serves as the basis for the author's argument is strong in my opinion, but a few of the things I found to detract from this effort stopped me from rating it higher than I wanted to. Nonetheless, I found many of the aspects covered therein to be on the money, albeit fraught with ambiguity in contextual misfortification. Books of this nature tend to be synonymous with being academic in scope, but always manage to retain enough interest to want readers to offer continuity for enlightenment. To this end, the book was informative in certain stages and vague, if not vapid in others. Based on what the author presented though, I gave her credit for answering questions that have perplexed, and gave thought-provoking angst to scholars for years. It harkens back to the Afrocentrisms and Kemetic order of thinking as it gives homage to our ancestral heritages and other anthropological insight I didn't even know existed in my own mind. It has the wherewithal to allow readers to be recognizant of their ethnicity to read and explore for individual leanings and learning.<br /><br /> Being an avid reader of literature pertaining to the African Diaspora, and all things African in nature, it didn't allow me to only focus on that aspect, but to deal with what is being espoused in current disorders in racial matters, and why we as a people are not united for meaningful coalitions constituted for our betterment. As such, the book was deserving of my attention for the relevance of the subject matter alone, but left more to be desired for putting it together as a really seminal tome for students to get more from it. It had all the potential that I wanted to understand about my own race of people; giving one person's opinion about the mindset of the society in which we live....with inferences allowing you to recognize how history has played such an intricate role in how we live today. I believe this book if rewritten in a different context should be required reading for all Black people wanting a better understanding of social balance. It's a book that can uplift our race of people. It's a book that can help to heal and repair the problems that Black people face. It's a book for intellectuals as well as common folk.<br />Although the author's premise and information is justified, the book isn't without flaws as I alluded to earlier. I would have liked more references and annotated analogy. A book of this magnitude should have citations galore and critical research methodologies noted. I uncovered a few grammatical errors, but it didn't dilute nor fail to make the message is clear and the content sound. Chronologically, the author could have done a better job of being consistent with time lines and a better job of juxtapositioning the different eras. Despite this, my overall assessment remain positive. The other is not introducing anything new here that has not been visited before. My advice is to read for your own understanding and for knowledge. Thus, you'd treat it as you would any other reference manual. It still has the unique feel of a book that can be read in ways to refute the usual blandness of encyclopedias and the one-dimensionalism of dictionaries, though. You'll be overwhelmed, if not alarmed with insightful information and the author's penchant for in-depth information and not solutions. I recommend this for serious students of africentric intellect looking to add this to other books of like interest.the author's penchant for in-depth information and not solutions. I recommend this for serious students of africentric intellect looking to add this to other books of like interest.	2004-01-22
US	42925694	R1XCR91QDB5BFV	0345451783	638537140	The First Thing Smoking	Books	4	1	2	N	N	17 good stories in an urbane setting...discover a new author	Short stories and vignettes if told poignantly to express a longing for more should be the barometer in measuring what impact it would have on the reader. Some can be told in voices that would garner explicit awareness, where some may be as abstract as any unfeeling sense of detachment it would evoke. I read Nelson Eubanks' The First Thing Smoking with mixed emotion, but came away impressed with how the stories were told. The tone and tenor suggests an interconnection based on them set in the urban pathos of New York City and Brazil. As such, they are intractably told through the trials and tribulation of Maceo Watson, an impressionable adolescent expressive and vibrant in his quest for identity. These 17 stories are metaphoric in a street-wise interpretive analogy where the prejudice and hatred that exist within the familial order emphasizes the variance of skin pigmentation as it pertain to miscegenative value.<br /><br />Let's set the stage for the book for a better understanding of Maceo and his predicament. The urbane setting is relative to the New York/New Jersey locale, flavoring his demeanor and shaping his ideological mind as he looks within himself in attempting to understand his racial background. His father looks &quot;mostly white&quot; and his mother is &quot;the color of coffee with lots of milk in it.&quot; As the author laments.  Maceo himself is darker than either of his parents, which causes his great-aunt Inola to ponder his fate and urge him to be wary of the sun and the harm it can do. Shuttling between his mixed-race neighborhood and white-kid private school, Maceo tries to fit in both places....often failing in both.<br /><br />There's a lot at work here: exploring self-identity for racial awareness, familial angst, and the ramification of sexual politics amid backdrops conducive to prejudice and hatred when the color issue is not addressed adequately. Eubanks deftly switches scenarios to give authenticity to setting, and to allow the reader good observation into Maceo's dilemma. Throughout, there are adjunct characters that give supportive weight to add balance, but at times there's bouts of ennui. The brief vignettes, with a Brazilian flavor tend to be shallow as the author fails to give deeper coloration which gives a less effective realism as opposed to the longer narrative pieces set in New York. I wanted to identify with the author's subjectiveness but felt lost in a few of his stories, namely &quot;Novo Tiempo\\", &quot;Impromptu Parade&quot;, and \\"A Lie in Seven Parts&quot;. I love the Brazilian culture and found a sense of contentment following Maceo's wanderings through Bahia to be enlightening. Eubanks's adaptation of race, skin color, and a young man coming of age in spite of it gives The First Thing Smoking reason to be read....if not for other substantive ways to look at how race can be dealt with through the eyes of others. As I read on, I marveled at how the author was able to blend rich kaleidoscopes to make this work of fiction possess a style of its own.er good observation into Maceo's dilemma. Throughout, there are adjunct characters that give supportive weight to add balance, but at times there's bouts of ennui. The brief vignettes, with a Brazilian flavor tend to be shallow as the author fails to give deeper coloration which gives a less effective realism as opposed to the longer narrative pieces set in New York. I wanted to identify with the author's subjectiveness but felt lost in a few of his stories, namely &quot;Novo Tiempo\\", &quot;Impromptu Parade&quot;, and \\"A Lie in Seven Parts&quot;. I love the Brazilian culture and found a sense of contentment following Maceo's wanderings through Bahia to be enlightening. Eubanks's adaptation of race, skin color, and a young man coming of age in spite of it gives The First Thing Smoking reason to be read....if not for other substantive ways to look at how race can be dealt with through the eyes of others. As I read on, I marveled at how the author was able to blend rich kaleidoscopes to make this work of fiction possess a style of its own.	2003-09-26
US	42925694	RQ6AGT0XG0VOD	0595745709	409022902	Faith, Courage, and Wisdom: A Journey to Manhood	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This book is well worth the journey!	In today's time there's no escaping the plight of our youth. We're steadily dealing with declining apathy to strengthening the community, and other related problems associated with the disintegrating of the Black family. I neglected to mention the importance of how self-embodiment is ethically involved in the aforementioned. So much so that Nevlynn Johnson in his new book, Faith, Courage, and Wisdom takes us through a spiritual and guiding labyrinth of truisms associated with the narration of opinionated views in telling a poignant story. He manages to do it using biblical verse and analogies to forge truths manifested in a style that is written with personal reflections to illustrate his point(s). This is a story of a man finding himself and injecting the meaning of self-awareness to get to levels that would show how reaching that possible dream of manhood can be attainable. Using salient references to having to deal with being fatherless in Michigan, problems coming of age in Louisville, Kentucky, and all of the ill-will with finding balance amid strife, gives this book much more weight when reading it for its intrinsic value. The lessons learned here is being able to follow a transcript for success using God's plan for salvation in achieving satisfying results. It's about renewal and rebirth, about reclaiming and reassurances....it's about what should be done to give one new leases on life. To this effect, the author really sells his points by giving us autobiographical sketches on this trip in reflective narrations. I really enjoyed reading this book. His story is much like that of many of our urban poor with so many loose cannons and misguided plans that are apropos to their individual surroundings. We harken back to stories of children raised by single mothers, sorry fathers leaving their families, overt racism in society and in the school systems, and street violence that divide our neighborhoods. All of this affected this author. He tells it all as he discusses his surviving those mean streets and divided loyalties.<br />How does one overcome those trials and tribulations? How did Mr. Johnson cope with his problematic issues? Why did he feel so adamant in telling this story? The answers are beautifully interwoven in a prose that truly makes this more than a page-turner's delight. I love the way he gave just the right hints of personal commitment and the collaboration of different forces to forge the sum of a greater whole. Giving all the glory to God is only part of the story, but from what I gathered, the real definition of perseverance and a doggedly stubborn resolve to rise above mediocrity added substance to the pot.<br />The book is divided into six parts with the chapters titled appropriately to depict thematic overtones for each transforming stage of his life. In all, there are 31 haunting chapters. This is a well put together book that will bring stability and a sense of belonging for any young person to emulate, and for all older people to use as a blue print in involving the spiritual, and the self-edification of knowing who you are to bring about change. I'm always in search of better ways to educate, bring about reclaiming that which is lost to anybody that can use meaningful example(s) to wrought new beginnings. If reading this book to make differences in our youth making the right choices, then it would be well-served to use it for what it was intended. Thank you Nevlynn Johnson. Your journey was well worth the time I took to read your story...and hope that others read it for what it's worth!ses his surviving those mean streets and divided loyalties.<br />How does one overcome those trials and tribulations? How did Mr. Johnson cope with his problematic issues? Why did he feel so adamant in telling this story? The answers are beautifully interwoven in a prose that truly makes this more than a page-turner's delight. I love the way he gave just the right hints of personal commitment and the collaboration of different forces to forge the sum of a greater whole. Giving all the glory to God is only part of the story, but from what I gathered, the real definition of perseverance and a doggedly stubborn resolve to rise above mediocrity added substance to the pot.<br />The book is divided into six parts with the chapters titled appropriately to depict thematic overtones for each transforming stage of his life. In all, there are 31 haunting chapters. This is a well put together book that will bring stability and a sense of belonging for any young person to emulate, and for all older people to use as a blue print in involving the spiritual, and the self-edification of knowing who you are to bring about change. I'm always in search of better ways to educate, bring about reclaiming that which is lost to anybody that can use meaningful example(s) to wrought new beginnings. If reading this book to make differences in our youth making the right choices, then it would be well-served to use it for what it was intended. Thank you Nevlynn Johnson. Your journey was well worth the time I took to read your story...and hope that others read it for what it's worth!	2003-09-26
US	42925694	R2ZY3VJ8154O0L	0446529737	510115178	Negotiate This!: By Caring, But Not T-H-A-T Much	Books	5	17	21	N	N	How to use effective persuasion to jockey for position!	Negotiate This! By Caring, But Not T-H-A-T Much<br />by Herb Cohen<br /><br />I had the pleasure of attending one of Herb Cohen's speeches several years ago on becoming a master of persuasion, and perfecting the art of meaningful negotiation. Of course, by that time, his signature work, You Can Negotiate Anything was already a must read book destined to become a masterpiece. That book, now 23 years old and still packing a solid punch will find company in the aforemention's current offering. Now comes Negotiate This! Albeit, with an interesting subtitle, &quot;By Caring, But Not T-H-A-T Much&quot;, it gives the impressionable image that there's more to the title as implication would have you view it. It is inevitable that this author's seminal work, and a new twist to gaining footholds on how to win at an effective personal developmental tool would lend one to believe that there's something new to the game, and as you read Negotiate This! you'll be able to see just how different it is, yet some of the same principles in the former are present and prominent in the latter.<br /><br />Please be reminded that the purpose of this expose is not to draw parallels, but rather, to aim the reader's perspective in communicating how personal allegorical and simple logical insight to view experienced behavioral patterns can make a difference in positioning yourself to turn no's into yeses.  In this book, you will find out why Cohen is such an accomplished, successful negotiator, a talent that personifies his creative intelligence, his intense focus on using the art of persuasion and emphasizing a negotiating style that is subliminal, entertaining and flexible.  The primary message in this book is the negotiator's need to cultivate a certain aloofness, or employ an analogy to suggest a detached sense of awareness but still be able to take in the seriousness of what one should be doing to win -- hence the book's subtitle.  I like the way he uses well-placed metaphors to color the street-smart advice on effective demeanor, an implied uniqueness to style and the importance of the bargaining process. As I read, I wanted to have the answers that kept cropping up in my head. To wit: Is it possible to create advantages in negotiations? When would you know that you have the upper hand?  What ploys should be used to project a preeminent air to intimidate your adversary?<br /><br />Cohen manages to do an excellent job in explaining all of the above. As such, manipulating the perceived levels of time, information and positioning to create an advantage in negotiations is a must to foster the image that knowledge is indeed power. In the process he gives a perfect if not defining analogy of what negotiating is all about while using three precepts. He opines: &quot;Negotiating often involves the managing of conflict. At times, however, some conflicts that come your way need not be confronted but should be avoided. If you have some perspective you can see things beginning to develop and use your lead time to adopt a blueprint of avoidance, then do so. Another strategy that comes with distance is to diffuse or reconcile differences before they even come to a head. Finally, a third option is to confront the problem directly looking for alternate solutions that will provide for joint gain and build mutually beneficial relationships&quot;<br /><br />All in all, this is an excellent read, but may not be anything new for those that feel that it's an old rehashment of an earlier atonement on the same subject. In my opinion, there were a few things of less interest, and despite the book's verbosity in odd places nothing should be taken away from the author's unique expressionism in illustrating points that can make the difference between winning or losing  arguable points of contention in negotiating d&eacute;tente.  The result is a book that is quite useful, practical, and uses Herb Cohen's experience and success as a hallmark for authoritative wisdom. Read it foryourself to draw conclusive evidence for any limitations on patience and perseverance. I rate it five stars out of five!conclusive evidence for any limitations on patience and perseverance. I rate it five stars out of five!	2003-09-21
US	42925694	RI33ZDOCSHSLM	1553063945	925367101	For Love and Grace (For Love and Grace Series #1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Christian fiction : An auspicious debut!	If ever a book can grab you in the first few chapters and hold your attention long enough to know that it's character-driven and not a generic read, then you know that you have a good book. I read For Love And Grace and came away convinced that this author is destined for a graceful future. Kendra Norman-Bellamy has penned a love story extolling virtues of likable men seldom seen in lieu of the penchant to show them in sordid situations. Seldom too, will you find novels written where romance is not based on sex, sex, and more sex! Real life situations work best when storylines are woven to give poignancy to the process of eliciting genuine page turners.<br />When Derrick Madison lost his mother in a tragic car accident he immediately looks for reasons to justify angst gone awry by blaming others, and not allowing the better part of valor be instrumental in the healing process. The gist of this story involves Grace a college student who was involved in the aforementioned mishap. Enter Dr. Gregory Dixon, Derrick's best friend who falls in love with Grace and opens a can or worms that prove to be troublesome and somehow manages to bring to the fore the real meaning of friendship. I was able to read into the author's reason for writing such a book that would raise the sensibilities of strong male charisma amid the need to make viable decisions. Moreover, I saw how one can really bring back together friendship gone bad, how to deal with misguided guilt, learning how to let remorse guide forgiveness, and most importantly, in allowing a higher spiritual awareness define the real reason to fall in love. All of this is inherent in this book!<br />This is billed as Christian Romance, but the author articulates with clarity and the aplomb of a seasoned writer.  It manages to render a heartfelt storyline allowing the characters to define substance, thus taking it way beyond the usual confines of a stereotypical debut novel. Kudos to you Kendra, we welcome this and look forward to the sequel.to the sequel.	2003-07-28
US	42925694	R25Y2NC4K8JUW2	0874779375	246791370	The Right to Write	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The writer's muse through essays and spiritual guidance	The Right to Write: An Invitation and Initiation into the Writing Life<br /><br />What if everything we have been taught about learning to write was wrong? To what extent do you attribute to articulating words to paper? If you are a writer, what does writing mean to you? These are questions that have been asked one way or another to any aspiring or established writer. One author in particular has given readers her own version of why the writing life is so essential to her existence. The Right To Write: An Invitation and Initiation Into The Writing Life is a revelation. It was written by Julia Cameron who has written all over the literary landscape. Here, she intones with eloquence why it is a way of life, and shares with readers her rhyme and reason to enjoy writing as a natural process. As much as I read, I found this book to be just the anecdote for me to realize why I write! The more than 40 brief personal essays that make up The Right to Write are an unyielding affirmation of the writing life and should hold the readers attention long enough for it not to be a bore.<br />Let's take the time to examine the book. It flows judicially in a sequential phalange of personal essays and exercises to garner ways to keep the interest level up, and give credence to idealize thoughts for future reference.  She invites readers to make use of the many trials and tribulations as well as the sensual pleasures of their lives in formulating fodder for a good write.  Acknowledging that she is &quot;a perfect example of a practitioning nurse,&quot; Cameron, telling the stories behind some of her own stories and poems, shows how writing can lead us down into the most vibrant parts of ourselves, to extract the source of good vibes. Cameron's prose and anecdotes sparkle with fresh, lived experience, demonstrating that when the subject is creativity, a writer should be able to make the words dance with synchronized rhythm. Cameron declares that &quot;it is human nature to write&quot; and sets about proving it in this demonstrative book.<br />I can't imagine anything close to conventional writing being a false doctrine that would stifle creativity, but in The Right to Write, the author alludes to this and other tidbits of information in the same mold. Much of this I found to be quasi-believable due to her penchant for giving good analogy to illustrate well her points of view, and her belief that readers should learn to make writing a natural, intensely personal part of life.  Anyone ascribing to write for the first time should not be intimidated by the authors' bodacious style, and those already living it will discover the art of writing is never the same after reading this book. The Right to Write gives all the real meaning to wanting to do what is write!t;it is human nature to write&quot; and sets about proving it in this demonstrative book.<br />I can't imagine anything close to conventional writing being a false doctrine that would stifle creativity, but in The Right to Write, the author alludes to this and other tidbits of information in the same mold. Much of this I found to be quasi-believable due to her penchant for giving good analogy to illustrate well her points of view, and her belief that readers should learn to make writing a natural, intensely personal part of life.  Anyone ascribing to write for the first time should not be intimidated by the authors' bodacious style, and those already living it will discover the art of writing is never the same after reading this book. The Right to Write gives all the real meaning to wanting to do what is write!	2003-07-18
US	42925694	R2WIAYV1OJQ4SZ	1573222461	491032736	Walking a Literary Labyrinth: A Spirituality of Reading	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A must read for bookworms and avid readers!	Walking A Literary Labyrinth: A Spirituality of Reading  by Nancy Malone<br />Our journey through life can be enlightened with pleasurable nuggets worth recording. Recording the remembrance of a literary life was done ever so eloquently in the name of Walking A Literary Labyrinth: A Spirituality of Reading as told by Nancy Malone, an Ursuline Nun with a voracious reading habit. This memoir is appealing and quite interesting as it delves into a wide range of books giving us an inside view of a woman who not only shares her passion for books but conveys a definitive analogy for self awareness in literacy. The bibliophile that I am drew me to this book, and I'm glad that I did! It spoke of the need to continue to keep books at the forefront of my existence...one that harkens me to not forget why having a list of books at the ready to reinforce how important the reading life is.  The fact that the author draws from diverse and far-reaching sources to compile this narrative gives it a flavor that is unmistakable. The  spirituality and secular ambiance of the author's peripheral vision should give readers viable reasons to believe that the substance therein is both qualitative and quantitative.<br />Walking A Literary Labyrinth is a structured book. Follow the author as she examines the role that reading plays in giving meaning to the worthiness within ourselves as it pertain to those books that makes a difference in your life. In allowing the title to breath life into what is written, she likens the experience of reading to walking a maze of symmetrical meanderings where each book is a metaphor for life's experiences. In other words, you ARE what you read. Know too, that the paths within this maze, or labyrinth as the author puts it are not straight that leads invariably to a small circle in the center that is definitive of the self. This `self-awareness' through reading, the author opines is what makes us who we are.  As I read the book I truly was amazed at how Ms Malone extended me the welcome to examine and consider how the influence of reading selected books can have staying power to shape our thoughts, and mold us to enlarge the humanistic value of knowledge.  As indicated elsewhere in this review, the author's insightful and articulation of influential books covers a broad range of subjects, including her childhood readings; books that are iconoclastic in nature, bordering on religious objectivity; reading and social responsibility; &quot;immoral&quot; reading (that challenges us to examine our predilection for erotic literature, and the joys of poetry.<br />The book is arranged in eight beautiful chapters, each with a reflective analysis relative to the topic being discussed. The Prologue and The Epilogues are congruous to all that has been conveyed and gives the reader extra-added substance with a well endowed recommended reading list. The aforementioned she sections off by giving books that have shaped her life in some manner, i.e., Short Pieces That Have Made Me Laugh; Biography and Autobiography; Spiritual Reading and Theology; Fiction; Nonfiction, et al. The book includes a bibliography to inspire readers to seek out the unfamiliar or return to old favorites. In Walking a Literary Labyrinth, Malone invites readers of all religious and secular traditions to consider the influence of reading in their own lives, and let it be the barometer to measure the worth you gain from books. This is an excellent read!lone extended me the welcome to examine and consider how the influence of reading selected books can have staying power to shape our thoughts, and mold us to enlarge the humanistic value of knowledge.  As indicated elsewhere in this review, the author's insightful and articulation of influential books covers a broad range of subjects, including her childhood readings; books that are iconoclastic in nature, bordering on religious objectivity; reading and social responsibility; &quot;immoral&quot; reading (that challenges us to examine our predilection for erotic literature, and the joys of poetry.<br />The book is arranged in eight beautiful chapters, each with a reflective analysis relative to the topic being discussed. The Prologue and The Epilogues are congruous to all that has been conveyed and gives the reader extra-added substance with a well endowed recommended reading list. The aforementioned she sections off by giving books that have shaped her life in some manner, i.e., Short Pieces That Have Made Me Laugh; Biography and Autobiography; Spiritual Reading and Theology; Fiction; Nonfiction, et al. The book includes a bibliography to inspire readers to seek out the unfamiliar or return to old favorites. In Walking a Literary Labyrinth, Malone invites readers of all religious and secular traditions to consider the influence of reading in their own lives, and let it be the barometer to measure the worth you gain from books. This is an excellent read!	2003-07-18
US	42925694	R4GXWKT16JT3D	0970276206	313980356	The New Underground Railroad	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Are you on the right track to success?	According to author Robert Henderson, Jr. \\"A lack of economic power and lack of control of our economic future has further fueled the lack of awareness of what's going on in African-American communities.\\" Moreover, he intones this caveat, \\"We're no more than `Modern day slaves' riding the new underground railroad\\".  These are profound statements that beg for an explanation, but in his new book The New Underground Railroad Mr. Henderson gives a rather unique analogy to convey the concept that \\"the more things change, the more they stay the same.\\"  What then, is the new Underground Railroad?  How does it apply to Black folk, and most importantly, what comparisons does it has to the old underground railroad. I found this to be quite interesting if not intriguing to me relative to how he drew parallel to old slave mentality vs. the so-called new slave mentality. Albeit, if readers can get past the many tired clich&eacute;s and annoying inferences to an old slave to that of the current state of `forced labor' that permeates our existence, perhaps the author's point of view could be better understood. With such a title, I'd imagine that the purpose intended indeed was to support why one slave is superior or inferior to the other.<br />Lauded as a beginner's guide to understanding investing, it indeed is elementary in giving posits of truths as it pertain to some of the rudimentary terms and policies that govern the usage of stocks, bonds, and ordinary investment prerogatives. After reading all of the chapters I felt that perhaps more information could have been supplied to give this book more oomph. As such, even beginners should be privy with as much information to insure that they are on the right (railroad) track. Many working Americans are only one or two paychecks away from poverty as Mr. Henderson opines.  According to which history book you read supposedly in 1865 Abraham Lincoln freed the slaves from physical bondage with a stroke of the pen. Today, as it is implied in the book, the NEW slave is in economic bondage, and cannot be released by the government. The NEW slave may have a nice house, sports car and a high salary, but he is STILL a slave because he is dependent on his job for his sole economic welfare. He is content with his current uncertain financial status of possible layoffs, down sizing, termination, and corporate reorganization, etc. The NEW slaves can only be freed with financial knowledge. Now comes this author who brings out some interesting facts to illustrate his points.<br />The New Underground Railroad offers solid financial and living advice in direct, easy-to-understand terms expressly for those who may be looking for a better understanding of financial security. I found it to be rudimentary in the sense that anyone on any level can understand it. It's a good read despite the author's penchant for giving parallels to historic insight for not being a prime candidate for a slave to the system. In the present, he empowers individuals to step away from the slave-master mentality and be energized with the essentials of the 21st Century. One way of doing this is to have a winning attitude, think positive, and to stay focused. Certainly nothing that hasn't been harkened to us before, this author proceeds to say that faith and positive thinking does not work alone with one taking the necessary initiatives to stay tracked. repetitive but in view of the fact that it reads like good news that we slaves (people) need, so be it. I remember another author implying that to stay ahead one must \\"think and grow rich\\". This book is along the same mindset. I recommend that you read it to track your destination for a good start!the book, the NEW slave is in economic bondage, and cannot be released by the government. The NEW slave may have a nice house, sports car and a high salary, but he is STILL a slave because he is dependent on his job for his sole economic welfare. He is content with his current uncertain financial status of possible layoffs, down sizing, termination, and corporate reorganization, etc. The NEW slaves can only be freed with financial knowledge. Now comes this author who brings out some interesting facts to illustrate his points.<br />The New Underground Railroad offers solid financial and living advice in direct, easy-to-understand terms expressly for those who may be looking for a better understanding of financial security. I found it to be rudimentary in the sense that anyone on any level can understand it. It's a good read despite the author's penchant for giving parallels to historic insight for not being a prime candidate for a slave to the system. In the present, he empowers individuals to step away from the slave-master mentality and be energized with the essentials of the 21st Century. One way of doing this is to have a winning attitude, think positive, and to stay focused. Certainly nothing that hasn't been harkened to us before, this author proceeds to say that faith and positive thinking does not work alone with one taking the necessary initiatives to stay tracked. repetitive but in view of the fact that it reads like good news that we slaves (people) need, so be it. I remember another author implying that to stay ahead one must \\"think and grow rich\\". This book is along the same mindset. I recommend that you read it to track your destination for a good start!	2003-06-30
US	42925694	R2A0RLPFGLCA3Q	0970756801	423335112	Career Track or Side Track: A Career Guide For Young African American Professionals	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Tracking for success!	Three years into the new millennium problems are more prevalent than the preceding era. We're constantly plagued with the dilemma of wide spread economic disparity, and many dreams deferred. It doesn't have to be this way. Consider the solutions in the form of insightful peripheral vision and thoughtful compassion that author Lionel Butler has written. His work is a mantra with the idea of a safer course for staying on the right track. If there ever was advice to heed and information to be digested one young or old should be aware of his book, Career Track or Side Track. Oxymoronically subtitled, `A Career Guide For Young African-American Professionals', he gives precise and salient reference to prepare your steps to a better if not productive track, but could very well be touted to anyone. When you open the pages of this book it will pay you to open your mind as well. You will be asked to consider new kinds of intuitive goals and new strategic initiatives by which to accomplish them. You will be invited to systematically analyze your motivation and interactions with various tools and techniques to be able to make viable decisions. Furthermore, you will more than likely will discover (as I have) that reading a book of this magnitude has a way of wanting you to at least give it a try. If true discovery can genuinely put you in the \\"aha!\\" mode then perhaps you will eventually surmise that you've made more than a routine happenstance of a book...you will KNOW that your success is not necessarily predicated on your ability and performance in the workplace, but rather, how you go about making the right decision(s).<br />This book reminded me of the common sense admonitions and practical precepts I got from my grandmother and the rest of the village that helped raised me. No matter what walk of life you prescribe to, you'll learn something from a book of this nature that is so well put together. It is an easy book to read consisting of only 135 pages, with nine thought-provoking chapters. The only drawback was the limited introduction, but more than make up for it with a well-designed and easy-to-follow dictum. This includes three appendixes with informational reference you can use. Butler comes up with timely nuggets of knowledge and the six career influence factors he believes that are vital to success are apropos and seem to give viability to the rest of the book Here are a few:<br />* Determine your values and priorities early in life<br />* List your life goals and objectives and implement a follow-through plan<br />* Evaluate your personal strengths and weaknesses<br />* Educate yourself and be  well-read<br />* Focus on being creative<br />You may look at that list and say to yourself, \\"Duh\\", but many of our young folk and older people haven't done a good job of making a good account of their lives. Lionel Butler should know. He has over 30 years of experience in military, government, and industrial organizations exemplary of supervisory and planning initiatives to give more than just a passing thought to career choices. So this summer while you're soaking up some sun, immerse yourself in this book. The author's rules and carefully illustrated references will no doubt help you make fewer financial mistakes, and career options for the right track!ovoking chapters. The only drawback was the limited introduction, but more than make up for it with a well-designed and easy-to-follow dictum. This includes three appendixes with informational reference you can use. Butler comes up with timely nuggets of knowledge and the six career influence factors he believes that are vital to success are apropos and seem to give viability to the rest of the book Here are a few:<br />* Determine your values and priorities early in life<BR>* List your life goals and objectives and implement a follow-through plan<BR>* Evaluate your personal strengths and weaknesses<BR>* Educate yourself and be  well-read  <BR>* Focus on being creative<br />You may look at that list and say to yourself, \\"Duh\\", but many of our young folk and older people haven't done a good job of making a good account of their lives. Lionel Butler should know. He has over 30 years of experience in military, government, and industrial organizations exemplary of supervisory and planning initiatives to give more than just a passing thought to career choices. So this summer while you're soaking up some sun, immerse yourself in this book. The author's rules and carefully illustrated references will no doubt help you make fewer financial mistakes, and career options for the right track!	2003-06-30
US	42925694	RCKM7CNM5VBEH	0060505656	637267931	A Taste of Reality: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Nothing new...Ms Roby scores again!	Kimberla Lawson Roby has mastered the art of poignant and emotional writing. In A TASTE OF REALITY, her fifth novel, she gives readers another great storyline with strong characters.<br />This time around, Roby tells a rather routine tale of a woman named Anise Miller who seems to have it all: a solid marriage, good friends and a well-paying job. Can't find too much wrong with this scenario, right? Well, the protagonist will beg to differ. In fact, she is frustrated, annoyed and angry. How does a woman with seemingly everything allow ennui to set in and ruin a perfect situation? Well, many of us will be able to better understand Anise and sympathize with her once we learn of the many problems she is experiencing. Unfortunately, she must deal with racism and cronyism in the workplace and, to make matters worse, her best friend is trying to undo what she's built a lifetime to establish.<br />Roby is able to tell the story using different points of view. Despite a slow start, the story does pick up speed and heads for its predictable ending. There is a method to how Roby ties in plot, storyline and characterization --- and it has always worked for her. For those who want to ride the gamut with Roby and taste reality along with her, this will be a title you'll enjoy.	2003-05-24
US	42925694	RMQCK4I5QE60B	0375404619	570205192	Sons of Mississippi: A Story of Race and Its Legacy	Books	4	8	9	N	N	New revelations to an old story...Racism Revisited	Lest we forget, the civil rights era and the horrors that it wrought still echoes and reverberates within us. Now comes a poignant reminder that there still are some closets that have stored secrets and are full of old ghosts. Paul Hendrickson braves the wrath and guilt of those that may want this sordid part of our history to continue to lie fallow. This is a story of Mississippi's pained past, one that is in the forefront of efforts to eradicate and ply for a new frame of reference. The author profiles seven Mississippi sheriffs photographed while one of their number showboats with a billy club in an apparent show of glee in beating a would be students' quest to integrate the University Of Mississippi. The real story about this book as more to do with telling the truth than hiding it. and the author uses the front cover picture on the book as metaphor to illustrate what transpired during this time, and the aftermath years later.<br />The genesis of Hendrickson's curiosity about the picture gives rise to why he felt that there's more to tell about the men that perpetuated and fueled actions extolling the indelible image of racism for the times. His question was:  Is racism a genetic thing? Could it be possible that the sons of the perpetrators are just as racist? In other words, How has it changed for the families that had to witness the shock and sorrow of their loved ones. Where did the hatred and remorse go that strengthened the viewpoints of these so-called law enforcers?  The compelling point of it all is what is extracted from the sons and grandsons to feed the pages of this book. He follows the careers of the proponents up to their deaths, with the quips, quotes, and anecdotes condoning violence, and the various interviews with leading subjects of the day.  He begins with a wrenching retelling of the Emmett Till lynching-seven years before James Meredith fought for and finally won admission to Ole Miss, a bloody story Hendrickson also recounts (in addition to a fascinating recent interview with Meredith himself). I found this part of the book revealing, and gave credence to the depths that Hendrickson took to solidify his research methodology. The book's final third tries to get at the legacy of Mississippi's particular brand of segregation, but tells us nothing that we don't already know.  He tries to rectify quality by profiling the children of the men in the photo, and of Meredith, with sad and inconclusive results.<br /> While Hendrickson can be intrusive in telling readers how to interpret his subjects, he repeatedly comes up with issues that are repeated in previous and later sections of the book.  The electric interview material, and deftly places these men did their horrors masterfully defines events of their times, and adds yet another chapter to this period that Mississippi would rather be left dead and buried. This book and story should not be looked down on, but should be placed among other books that endeavor to give some semblance of accord in understanding mindsets of a racist enclave.to a fascinating recent interview with Meredith himself). I found this part of the book revealing, and gave credence to the depths that Hendrickson took to solidify his research methodology. The book's final third tries to get at the legacy of Mississippi's particular brand of segregation, but tells us nothing that we don't already know.  He tries to rectify quality by profiling the children of the men in the photo, and of Meredith, with sad and inconclusive results. <br /> While Hendrickson can be intrusive in telling readers how to interpret his subjects, he repeatedly comes up with issues that are repeated in previous and later sections of the book.  The electric interview material, and deftly places these men did their horrors masterfully defines events of their times, and adds yet another chapter to this period that Mississippi would rather be left dead and buried. This book and story should not be looked down on, but should be placed among other books that endeavor to give some semblance of accord in understanding mindsets of a racist enclave.	2003-05-24
US	42925694	R1NFK0KVN9YOA	0375725466	364345310	The Buffalo Soldier: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A great read, and an interesting historic highlight!	Chris A. Bojalian has scored again!  Sentimentality mixed with a reason to give poignancy a chance to shine is apropos for melodrama at its best.  The Buffalo Soldier, an unforgettable tale that catches the human element and give reason not to give up on this book.  Tragedy finds Laura and Terry Sheldon, losing twin nine year-old daughters due to a flash flood in rural Vermont.  The death of the girls only added more angst and ill-will to the couple struggling to keep their marriage afloat. This seemed a hard task to rectify as both dealt and reacted to the tragedy in different ways.  To wit: Terry wants to be able to control his life, take charge, make things right. This is a very accurate portrayal for a dedicated law enforcement officer. Laura brings another child in their life, Alfred, an African American boy. Not only is this a challenge because his years in foster care have left him distrustful of most everyone, but they are living in Vermont where there are very few other African Americans.  With this analogy in tow, the author is on his way, and does a masterful job of weaving a second element into the storyline, thus evoking a different point of view.<br />Alfred, elicits emotional ties to The Buffalo Soldiers and can easily be synonymous with his status as an orphan. Historically speaking, the Buffalo Soldiers were a compelling factor in the taming of the west, and were ostracized by society and the military. The real gem in this story is the fact that when the need to be accepted without preconceived notions, it does wonders for the psyche and deals prejudice another blow for legitimacy. This, he gets from a concerned neighbor who does his part to add substance to this novel.  Adding to that, Alfred solves his problems dealing with foster parentage by learning of the history that caused these men to be honored, as they came for him to be the role models that he emulated. Talking about turning a bad story to a good one, it worked for Alfred...but what about Laura and Terry?  Does the aforementioned `good Samaritan' neighbor earn the appreciation of both Laura and Terry?  How does Alfred's maturation affect his decision-making ideals and the timeliness of dealing with the world?  These are questions that will be answered as one delves into this wrenching story.<br />The author, from the characterizations offered here gives us a moving and a richly crafted drama that explores such issues as infidelity, bonding agents needed to keep children and families together, and the relative factors that causes a community to become one.  The Buffalo Soldier is an awe-inspiring tale, profound and with an ethical aura to it that readers would appreciate.  This you would expect from an author that is no stranger to dramatic cause and effectt Laura and Terry?  Does the aforementioned `good Samaritan' neighbor earn the appreciation of both Laura and Terry?  How does Alfred's maturation affect his decision-making ideals and the timeliness of dealing with the world?  These are questions that will be answered as one delves into this wrenching story.<br />The author, from the characterizations offered here gives us a moving and a richly crafted drama that explores such issues as infidelity, bonding agents needed to keep children and families together, and the relative factors that causes a community to become one.  The Buffalo Soldier is an awe-inspiring tale, profound and with an ethical aura to it that readers would appreciate.  This you would expect from an author that is no stranger to dramatic cause and effect	2003-05-24
US	42925694	R3MX20RQWDZF8Y	0399528083	949486120	Unfinished Business: A Democrat and a Republican Take on the 10 Most Important Issues Women Face	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Overblown issue with familiar results....	Despite the marathon title here's another introspective look at what's happening on the distaff of life from the views of two accomplished authoritive types. As such, man's better half, helpmate, and significant other have made great strides and truly have come a long way to dispel notions of inferiority, either in the workplace or otherwise. Where women are now, and where they go from here are given a platform for a head-to-head, if not spirited debate from two women representing our politifal parties. Unfinished Busines: A Democrat and a Republican Take On The 10 Most Important Issues Women Face reads like a mundane and plodding entity full of anecdotal and personal analogies indicative of the women that wrote the book. Although the book is well-written, it doesn't really lend anything to make it really jump out and grab your attention. Those that are fans and followers of the authors probably will be able to give it creedence lofty of their interpretation of a good read. I rated this book three stars out of five, which makes it a midpoint perceptive analogy which does have some good points.<br />It has stirring and provocative exchanges in spots where opinionated views tend to give it color, tone, and a certain tenor when each author plaintively give their heartfelt views on the reported issues. Dr. Julienne Malveaux (The Democrat) is a noted Economist whom have discussed many of the points here as a syndicated columnist for several national newspapers. In the other corner is the Honorable Deborah L. Perry (The Republican), a former Bush cabinet advisor, and a current political commentator on MSNBC and Fox News. Unfinished Business succinctly examines the ten issues women care about most (at least to the liking of these two women) from two very different perspectives. After reading the book I came to realize and marvel at how well-informed and motivated these combatants were in espousing their views on topics ranging from the failings of our education system, the inequities that women face in the workplace, reproductive rights, taxes, childcare, et al. I expected more for a unique style that would possibly separate it from other books written in the same idiom. My interpretative view would more than likely agree with readers who may look at it as the 'same old same old' and relegate it average in appeal - or worse. Always in such competitive analysis when looking for clear-cut winners in debatable issues, I couldn't say with any overwhelming conviction that one of these author were better than the other.<br />Moreover, and to their individual credit, Malveaux and Perry found enough common ground in the passion they felt for those issues and the role that women must play in initiating and effecting meaningful change. Written in classic call and response style, I surmise that this would be the type of book to pique disenting views from those in either direction - liberal or conservative to to incite lively discussion where there's a men vs. women inequitive discourse. Another good point is the resource section ending every chapter for further reflective views. The collaborative effort of both these women was a good idea, but it lacked the oomph to elicit more oohs and aahs!inequities that women face in the workplace, reproductive rights, taxes, childcare, et al. I expected more for a unique style that would possibly separate it from other books written in the same idiom. My interpretative view would more than likely agree with readers who may look at it as the 'same old same old' and relegate it average in appeal - or worse. Always in such competitive analysis when looking for clear-cut winners in debatable issues, I couldn't say with any overwhelming conviction that one of these author were better than the other. <br />Moreover, and to their individual credit, Malveaux and Perry found enough common ground in the passion they felt for those issues and the role that women must play in initiating and effecting meaningful change. Written in classic call and response style, I surmise that this would be the type of book to pique disenting views from those in either direction - liberal or conservative to to incite lively discussion where there's a men vs. women inequitive discourse. Another good point is the resource section ending every chapter for further reflective views. The collaborative effort of both these women was a good idea, but it lacked the oomph to elicit more oohs and aahs!	2003-05-24
US	42925694	R3PZZSRA3M9D6K	074345605X	863941114	Rock My Soul : Black People and Self-Esteem	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An easy way to get Hooked for the sake of self-esteem!	Lest we forget the importance of feeling good about ourselves, bell hooks, the quintessential black feminist writer has added yet another tome to the many outstanding references to the literary canon of African-American culture.  Here, she gives us Rock My Soul: Black People and Self-Esteem.  No less provocative, but ever so poignant, the panache is intact as she talks with passion on a highly debated topic that is always at the cutting edge of discussion in our communities. There's no book that this author has contributed that doesn't get the overall treatment with candid and insightful analogy. Self esteem and what it means to people of color will always be high profile and a force to be reckoned with due to the scars of slavery and unbalanced scales . Without self-esteem everyone loses his or her sense of meaning, purpose, and power. For too long, African Americans in particular have been unable to openly and honestly address the crisis of self-esteem and how it affects the way they perceive themselves and are perceived by others.<br />In her most challenging and provocative book to date, bell hooks gives voice to what many black people have thought and felt, but seldom articulated in a way where doubt would hold sway. She offers readers a clear, passionate examination of the role of projecting positive images and having the confidence to allow the playing field to be equaled to play in the African-American experience. This is essential in determining whether success is individual or collective. In gathering research for the project, the author delves into the methods and reasons why she used the paradigms to construct this project. She painstakingly listened to the stories of her students, peers, and people from different walks of life and heard the same arguments, including deep feelings of inadequacy and despair. With critical insight and a fervor bent on finding answers, the author exposes the underlying truth behind the crisis. In her estimation, it has been extremely difficult to create a culture that promotes and sustains a healthy sense of self-esteem in African-American communities...and this book gives all the reasons and supportive analogies thereof.<br />What I found interesting and gave me such a positive vein with this book, is how she  rigorously examined and identified the barriers -- political and cultural -- that keep African Americans from emotional well-being and a sense of belonging. She looked at historical movements, the role the community plays in this issue, gave introspective analogy why self is just as important at arriving at conclusions, and how the family came to be so involved. She also discusses the revolutionary role preventative mental health care can play in promoting and maintaining self-esteem. The question will always be asked:  Why is self-esteem so on the forefront of our societal emanation?  This book does quite a bit to understand how  racism has been abated, relative to how often-negative reaction to integration has crippled the black community leaving deep psychological scars and extremely low self-esteem as blacks compete by imitating whites.  I recommend this book to give compelling arguments and subsequent solutions for a far better understanding of the issue than has been given to us up to now.n extremely difficult to create a culture that promotes and sustains a healthy sense of self-esteem in African-American communities...and this book gives all the reasons and supportive analogies thereof. <br />What I found interesting and gave me such a positive vein with this book, is how she  rigorously examined and identified the barriers -- political and cultural -- that keep African Americans from emotional well-being and a sense of belonging. She looked at historical movements, the role the community plays in this issue, gave introspective analogy why self is just as important at arriving at conclusions, and how the family came to be so involved. She also discusses the revolutionary role preventative mental health care can play in promoting and maintaining self-esteem. The question will always be asked:  Why is self-esteem so on the forefront of our societal emanation?  This book does quite a bit to understand how  racism has been abated, relative to how often-negative reaction to integration has crippled the black community leaving deep psychological scars and extremely low self-esteem as blacks compete by imitating whites.  I recommend this book to give compelling arguments and subsequent solutions for a far better understanding of the issue than has been given to us up to now.	2003-05-19
US	42925694	R3EU4XQYEU9FM2	0446529427	602661748	Growing Up King: An Intimate Memoir	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Routine autobiography, nothing new to add to the King aura	This is NOT a story about Martin Luther King, Jr...But then again, it is! With such an imposing aura and legendary persona that Martin possesses even in death, it would be extremely hard for anyone trying to extract meaningful context without him playing a prominent role to analyze anything for or against it. GROWING UP KING is Dexter Scott King's story. He being the youngest of Martin's four children, sets out to give revelations for the first time what it was like growing up within the huge monolithic shadow of greatness, and how his fathers' maxims continue to inspire and inform his own ideas on race matters. I would imagine amid the aura of being a member of such a prominent family it would behoove one to set a sustained agenda to carve a preferred path. With this book, you'd think that definitions would be finally told in the first person. I wanted to be rational as I read this book and try not to compare the Martin of yesteryear to what his offspring needed to bring forth. But to do this, I knew I had to do so with an open mind. Thus, I read it with mixed emotion, and tried to be objective in attaining a reasonable view to support the author's intent, and more importantly, to see if certain truths would come forth to quell rumor, and set the record straight on a multitude of issues. Most notably the controversy surrounding The King Center for Non-Violent Social Change.<br />I came away with a feeling of loss, as if something truly was missing that wasn't said that should have been. I kept looking for reasons to give standing ovations to a member of this family who had the courage to give insight to all questions the public wanted answered. For those looking for insight that hasn't been before public domain, there may be something that Dexter espouses that may warrant merit. File this one on the shelf with the rest of the books written about the King family legacy. I rate this book above average, but still worthy of a read if nothing more than to give chance to this scion who endeavor to be his own man.o this scion who endeavor to be his own man.	2003-05-19
US	42925694	R3ONZNQ7XQIM3O	052594706X	479547070	Loving Donovan	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A true page turner and a darn good romance to bootMcFadden	With each book that Bernice McFadden has written it's better than the last. With this type of success, it's no wonder that when reading Loving Donovan one get the notion that the author is again doing what she does best. This novel gives insight to what good storytelling should encompass, and the method that it was written. Using a different perspective to tell a poignant story of a romantic relationship, she delves into a dual point of view switching between first and second person alternating the characters for interpretive analysis. Rather than the usual call and response mode of a straight narrative, this features the color and charisma of how two people use innovative and sensitive methods to relate what it means to belong to an ideal, as opposed to a superficial liaison. As such, this is an insightful and engaging novel that is fluid and flow with ease.<br />Comprised of three sections where each is definitive of parts not greater than the whole, it moves along at a pace that allows the reader to follow without getting lost. The first section belongs to Campbell. Campbell grew up with a love-starved mother and an adulterous father. Despite her emotional scars -- courtesy of her flawed parents and past romances -- Campbell is the type of woman who,<br />waits for the action to unfold around her instead of making things happen for dramatic effect.  Donovan owns the second section, and is quite definitive in it. His childhood home was fractured, with a mother who appears to have more than one chip on her shoulder, and a father who was sheltered.  The story as it depicts Donovan, owes a lot to how he perceived his parents' marriage. This shaped his relationship with Campbell and proved in the end why things change for different reasons. The third and final section features the romance of Campbell and Donovan including their trials and tribulation, where it ebbs, flows, and finally connecting the two maligned lovers.<br />As with her other novels, McFadden has consistently produced a story that a multitude of people will be able to identify with, and this, I feel is the one aspect that will make people want to read this book.  Loving Donovan is a superb book. One that was written in a way that shows candidly the compelling elements of love thrust in the right direction, with the level of intensity balancing the sensitivity for a tight story. This is a respected author that has earned a reputation for good storytelling and consistent success.istently produced a story that a multitude of people will be able to identify with, and this, I feel is the one aspect that will make people want to read this book.  Loving Donovan is a superb book. One that was written in a way that shows candidly the compelling elements of love thrust in the right direction, with the level of intensity balancing the sensitivity for a tight story. This is a respected author that has earned a reputation for good storytelling and consistent success.	2003-05-19
US	42925694	R2N3GBDSLRVZAR	159184021X	557165611	Purple Cow: Transform Your Business by Being Remarkable	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Take a look at this new and unique way to market an idea!	Here's yet another analysis on how to be savvy and well connected on marketing thrusts and promotional intensiveness. In this new book, author Seth Godin offers his version of how to be different in assessing the needs of getting your product noticed and in the right hands. The Purple Cow is his bailiwick and it describes something out of the ordinary, something unique, and exciting and flat out thought-inspiring. He opines that every day consumers are confronted with a lot of trite and banal things that are prevalent in the market and already overly commercialized. He further surmises that introduction to 'Purple Cows' would make a difference by allowing consumers to have something stick out in their minds for points of remembrance.<br />This way of distinguishing your idea, product, or business gives a thumb up to originality and the ingenuity behind how this type of marketing should suffice. What is given in this book not only is beneficial, but serves as something readers would be remiss to try. However, one glaring revelation about the book despite the uniqueness of what's presented is how it is laid out. One would believe that a formal introduction or preface would've been inherent to give readers further insight to such an innovative ideal. Another sore point is how the information is jammed up with no sense of order. Without any such pretension to slow its impact and objectivity, it races to its destination without refueling. The point here, despite a few other glaring points of contention is how to allow people the wherewithal of a good marketing campaign for your product to stand out. And it delivers!<br />Seth Godin is a remarkable technical writer. With his new offering he again show why his previous subjects were well taken and quite popular. As I read the book, I found myself quickly adapting to some of the ideas and applying them to my own situations, and comparing them with other tried and true models of perfection. One question I'd love to ask the publishers would be \\"why the small print, and why such a diminutive book in diameter with such tall proportions\\"?<br />Nonetheless, I'd STILL recommend it to those seeking a blueprint for something not yet taken as status quo.publishers would be \\"why the small print, and why such a diminutive book in diameter with such tall proportions\\"? <br />Nonetheless, I'd STILL recommend it to those seeking a blueprint for something not yet taken as status quo.	2003-05-19
US	42925694	RG1MZIMJ9YOS1	0465017630	491563338	Why I Love Black Women	Books	3	32	37	N	N	One man's dissertational view of women of color	When I think of the contribution that black women have contributed to the makeup of this country, and their role in society in general, I as a responsive father, son, and husband can certainly give homage to why they are so important to our existence. As I've read other references on this subject it only reminded me that others may share some of the reverence I hold, and have opinions of their own.  Eric Michael Dyson is one such person.  Always opinionated bordering on controversial, his views somehow find ways to permeate the African-American social Diaspora. Why I love Black Women is his latest offering to commentary that he has given us throughout his annals in the academy. Dyson, married and an ordained minister, is the Avalon Professor in the Humanities at the University of Pennsylvania, once again shoots from the hip taking no prisoners as he candidly and vociferously opines about the virtues of the women that hold reverence in his mind. This is a book that will undoubtedly garner mixed emotions from some of the things that are articulated by the author. Albeit, his expressing his love for sisters in a way which is up front and personal. While he does devote some worthwhile space to his mother, the bulk of the book focuses on what seems to be his compulsive attraction to the rich and famous....and it may well be this fixation that may cause the average black woman to take issue with this show of \\"preference\\".<br />My problem with the text is that the author's appreciative gestures are to the point of distraction. As a result, one may perhaps tend to find other vestiges of value to justify continuing with the read. It's okay to fawn and express feelings for those that you admire on the level that you gravitate, but having such a lofty view should not neglect those that are women nonetheless and would ascend the same positions if they were so inclined. What's the big deal over this Ivy-League professor getting all worked up, not over everyday people, but over academics, lawyers, congresswomen, celebrities and business executives.  Comments range on the rich and famous from Freda Payne to Star Jones.<br />I can't help but think too, that if I extol all that I love about African-American women, it would be imperative that I not neglect to include in generic reference all that may fall within my periphery in lieu of exalted personage. In sum, though Michael Eric Dyson's heart and mind might have been in the right place with good intent, his excessive if not thinly disguised parlance for lust got in the way of his emotion in this book superficial proportions.academics, lawyers, congresswomen, celebrities and business executives.  Comments range on the rich and famous from Freda Payne to Star Jones.<br />I can't help but think too, that if I extol all that I love about African-American women, it would be imperative that I not neglect to include in generic reference all that may fall within my periphery in lieu of exalted personage. In sum, though Michael Eric Dyson's heart and mind might have been in the right place with good intent, his excessive if not thinly disguised parlance for lust got in the way of his emotion in this book superficial proportions.	2003-05-19
US	42925694	R17P7MGRFQJQGR	1583142975	78986306	Jade	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A well-written book, and a Gamble worth your time!	I had this book in my midst for quite some time before deciding to pick it up. What a great read! Now I realize that the decision not to have read it sooner almost cost me the opportunity to share with my reading public just what could have been missed. It is my opinion that writers should be able to write across the board every now and then to recreate other centers of reference for diversity. Marcia King-Gamble did this as she crafts a novel much different than what she is known for. She too, as I further opine, is an underrated writer whom should be placed among those who are considered leaders in their genres. As such, she's already there in my book if I have to judge it based on her latest offering. I speak of Jade, a wistful story of an ambitious fashion designer who's on a quest to find her non-custodial father. This, amid a scarred and war-torn Vietnam whose remembrance of the war is never out of reach. Making things apropos for the setting and enhancing the subplots that are interwoven therein, is a good storyline laced with intrigue. Points leading up to the protagonist (Jade) finding out how and why she's an adoptee adds to this tale, and colors the landscape for a clearer picture why her foster parents felt a need to lie about why adoption was necessary in the first place.<br />The story is fast-paced, full of drama, and written sensuously in ways in which you didn't want to lose track of the heroine's every move to track her father. The scenes are vivid with a lot of apparent research needed to give authenticity to write about geographical references, and giving facts about the war to augment a story written to support dramatic reasoning. Even the sexual interludes were tasteful! Other than our main character, we have Cameron, who turns out to be on a quest of his own. What does his agenda have to do with Jade? Is he supportive, or a detriment? His journey proves to be interesting and no less mysterious, and finds himself becoming more embroiled into Jade's bewitching web. Their separate journeys give this story the sensitivity that flavors poignancy. Always when searching the past for answers that will have bearing on the future, truths are uncovered that are reckoned with for psychological acceptance. Outside of finding those answers, and dealing with the aforementioned, Jade has to make decisions for the circle to remain unbroken with being able to cope with issues that the author wanted to illustrate.<br />Marcia King-Gamble wrote a book close to her heart, and on a subject that is not readily portrayed in a dramatic sense for an amused interpretive analysis. Especially so with how she brings to fore subjects that have always been on the periphery of collective thought. To wit: She discusses the POW issue; children being left behind by GI's fathering them from liaisons between the vulnerable 'taxi girls' associated with the American military compounds; and, also delves into the sensitivity of foster parentage dealing with adoption and the drama that can unfold if it isn't handled with care.<br />I loved this book and rated it five stars. The author took a much-maligned topic, wrote a narrative that entertained, and gave her reading audience reason to want to read the next thing that will further cement her status where it belongs. Historic fiction is always good when you feel that he next best thing aside form being there, is wishing that the novel was longer!ade's bewitching web. Their separate journeys give this story the sensitivity that flavors poignancy. Always when searching the past for answers that will have bearing on the future, truths are uncovered that are reckoned with for psychological acceptance. Outside of finding those answers, and dealing with the aforementioned, Jade has to make decisions for the circle to remain unbroken with being able to cope with issues that the author wanted to illustrate. <br />Marcia King-Gamble wrote a book close to her heart, and on a subject that is not readily portrayed in a dramatic sense for an amused interpretive analysis. Especially so with how she brings to fore subjects that have always been on the periphery of collective thought. To wit: She discusses the POW issue; children being left behind by GI's fathering them from liaisons between the vulnerable 'taxi girls' associated with the American military compounds; and, also delves into the sensitivity of foster parentage dealing with adoption and the drama that can unfold if it isn't handled with care.<br />I loved this book and rated it five stars. The author took a much-maligned topic, wrote a narrative that entertained, and gave her reading audience reason to want to read the next thing that will further cement her status where it belongs. Historic fiction is always good when you feel that he next best thing aside form being there, is wishing that the novel was longer!	2003-05-19
US	42925694	R3EB6WHPRL89YX	074345605X	863941114	Rock My Soul : Black People and Self-Esteem	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Looking within for a reason to believe!	ROCK MY SOUL: BLACK PEOPLE AND SELF-ESTEEM  By bell hooks<br />Lest we forget the importance of feeling good about ourselves, bell hooks, the quintessential black feminist writer has added yet another tome to the many outstanding references to the literary canon of African-American culture.  Here, she gives us Rock My Soul: Black People and Self-Esteem.  No less provocative, but ever so poignant, the panache is intact as she talks with passion on a highly debated topic that is always at the cutting edge of discussion in our communities. There's no book that this author has contributed that doesn't get the overall treatment with candid and insightful analogy. Self esteem and what it means to people of color will always be high profile and a force to be reckoned with due to the scars of slavery and unbalanced scales . Without self-esteem everyone loses his or her sense of meaning, purpose, and power. For too long, African Americans in particular have been unable to openly and honestly address the crisis of self-esteem and how it affects the way they perceive themselves and are perceived by others. <br />In her most challenging and provocative book to date, bell hooks gives voice to what many black people have thought and felt, but seldom articulated in a way where doubt would hold sway. She offers readers a clear, passionate examination of the role of projecting positive images and having the confidence to allow the playing field to be equaled to play in the African-American experience. This is essential in determining whether success is individual or collective. In gathering research for the project, the author delves into the methods and reasons why she used the paradigms to construct this project. She painstakingly listened to the stories of her students, peers, and people from different walks of life and heard the same arguments, including deep feelings of inadequacy and despair. With critical insight and a fervor bent on finding answers, the author exposes the underlying truth behind the crisis. In her estimation, it has been extremely difficult to create a culture that promotes and sustains a healthy sense of self-esteem in African-American communities...and this book gives all the reasons and supportive analogies thereof. <br />What I found interesting and gave me such a positive vein with this book, is how she  rigorously examined and identified the barriers -- political and cultural -- that keep African Americans from emotional well-being and a sense of belonging. She looked at historical movements, the role the community plays in this issue, gave introspective analogy why self is just as important at arriving at conclusions, and how the family came to be so involved. She also discusses the revolutionary role preventative mental health care can play in promoting and maintaining self-esteem. The question will always be asked:  Why is self-esteem so on the forefront of our societal emanation?  This book does quite a bit to understand how  racism has been abated, relative to how often-negative reaction to integration has crippled the black community leaving deep psychological scars and extremely low self-esteem as blacks compete by imitating whites.  I recommend this book to give compelling arguments and subsequent solutions for a far better understanding of the issue than has been given to us up to now.	2003-04-22
US	42925694	R1MGEW0UMZEH0E	1583459502	148786846	Panache	Books	4	1	1	N	N	When love and money meet...the premise for a great romance!	What kind of woman would sacrifice herself for her child? Would you commit a crime to save his life? To what extent would a mother and career woman go to maintain balance against circumstantial odds? These questions are more than answered in Nathasha Brooks-Harris' debut novel Panache. Billed as a romantic thriller, it possess other elements to craft a story where real commitment is defined, and what it takes to do what is necessary to illustrate a point. The point here is a dilemma that forces the author to not only give insight to the opening questions, but to allow those other elements to  mesh creating a better part of an integral whole. Wholeness to Alexandra Walker may mean different things to different people as it will always take a special kind of woman to sacrifice herself for the love and edification of her offspring. It would even border on extraordinary proportions for her to commit a crime to save his life.<br />The circumstances that drove Alexandra to act stems from the fact that her son is in need of a kidney transplant. In realizing this she uses her managerial position at a renowned department store to help alleviate the need to help her son.  The story takes off rather fast in the beginning stages where she attempts to steal jewelry from the showcase, but reneges on it. Usually when opportunity arises for one, rest assured others are in waiting hoping for their chance. Enter Spurgeon Brown a repugnant opportunist who happens to be the security guard who caught her red-handed and never ceases to remind her of the circumstances if she doesn't cooperate with him. Not following through in turning her in may prove to be the makings of other diabolical schemes that this unsavory character is capable of. The story moves on as the author introduces the legacy of Panache, a rival jewelry establishment run by the dapper Chase Thomas, who by the way, is more than just a love interest in this book for our protagonist. Chase embodies a pillar of strength that Alex needs to be transformed into to foster elegance, and the type of self-assuredness that got him to be where he is. Together they play the age-old game of cat and mouse as the romantic overtones are given center stage.<br />For the most part I enjoyed the book, and felt that the author did a credible job of interjecting emotion and intrigue to justify this type of storyline where a good romance is to be had. However, the many subplots that are rendered may tend to lead astray those that allow their minds to meander. The concept of the story was original and fresh, but felt that certain aspects of it should have been made where suspense could be built up for a climatic finish. In this case, it didn't take away the author's premise, but my statements to the aforementioned are indicative of Alexandra and Chases' relationship. As such, the storyline developed too quickly for my liking. With this said, and it being a debut novel there's plenty of room for experience to be the progenitor of good things to come for this author. With this book out of the way, I see no need not to think that Perfect Harmony wouldn't be par for the course in her next offering. Stay tuned!Alex needs to be transformed into to foster elegance, and the type of self-assuredness that got him to be where he is. Together they play the age-old game of cat and mouse as the romantic overtones are given center stage.<br />For the most part I enjoyed the book, and felt that the author did a credible job of interjecting emotion and intrigue to justify this type of storyline where a good romance is to be had. However, the many subplots that are rendered may tend to lead astray those that allow their minds to meander. The concept of the story was original and fresh, but felt that certain aspects of it should have been made where suspense could be built up for a climatic finish. In this case, it didn't take away the author's premise, but my statements to the aforementioned are indicative of Alexandra and Chases' relationship. As such, the storyline developed too quickly for my liking. With this said, and it being a debut novel there's plenty of room for experience to be the progenitor of good things to come for this author. With this book out of the way, I see no need not to think that Perfect Harmony wouldn't be par for the course in her next offering. Stay tuned!	2003-04-22
US	42925694	R2B2NYM8QK2MBM	0684870657	661855894	Beyond the River: A True Story of the Underground Railroad	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Telling the real story beyond reproach!	Lest we forget, the celebrated links that make up parts of history are rooted with the ties that bind and the legacy in which they are allowed to preserve that history. One such entity is the Underground Railroad and the product that fueled it - runaway slaves. This underground path to freedom forged a way not only for escaped slaves to reach freedom, but gave certain status to those that deserve a proper place in American history as heroes, both unsung and noted.  Beyond The River is author Ann Hagedorn's gift to historic content embellishing such a storied and misunderstood part of a young nation coming to grips with \\"the war before the war\\".  In it, she details with facts a well-documented historical accuracy. These are the stories and mindsets of those whom would dedicate their lives to the abolishment of slavery, and the harboring of the slaves fleeing it.<br />What give this book direction and a pervading sense of identity are the incumbent figures that are tantamount to its success. With this in mind, it could very well serve as a biography of John Rankin, one of Ohio's most active \\"conductors\\" on the Underground Railroad. Rankin (1793-1886), a Presbyterian minister and abolitionist in Ripley, where the Ohio River separated the free state of Ohio from the slave state of Kentucky, was equally well known among the enslaved and their enslavers.  Hagedorn tries to bring to life the story of Rankin, his family, free blacks and the other forgotten heroes on the front line who assisted hundreds of blacks on the trek to freedom with other analogies that tend to make her efforts uneven. Rankin's story is inspiring and albeit, may have a place among the legacies that make legends of people, but tend not to be as captivating as those of the other heroes who are secondary characters in the book. One of the more poignant stories is that of a slave woman's nighttime escape across the icy river with her two-year-old (and the woman's risky return across the Ohio three years later to rescue her daughter and seven grandchildren from a Kentucky slaveholder). And there are others. The author brilliantly chronicles threats of midnight assassins, riots in Cincinnati and a pivotal trial in Kentucky in the 1830s, along with other detail descriptions of survival angst of the period. Hagedorn's relocated to Ripley to insure the book's completion, in my opinion was wise and led to the inspiration for the vivid prose, and wherewithal to bring these historical figures to a wider audience.<br />If you're a history buff and a bibliophile to this type of collecting, this book should find its place among the others for legitimacy. The gift of research and meticulously giving reference to time and place makes this an enjoyable read. I recommend it for yet another documentation of a process to understand that the most heroic were those who had been under bondage, making the most difficult part of a journey with the help of other enslaved people. Undoubtedly, this will always be an interesting sidelight to other historical content, but will be specific for readers willing to take a chance on this book.s later to rescue her daughter and seven grandchildren from a Kentucky slaveholder). And there are others. The author brilliantly chronicles threats of midnight assassins, riots in Cincinnati and a pivotal trial in Kentucky in the 1830s, along with other detail descriptions of survival angst of the period. Hagedorn's relocated to Ripley to insure the book's completion, in my opinion was wise and led to the inspiration for the vivid prose, and wherewithal to bring these historical figures to a wider audience.   <br />If you're a history buff and a bibliophile to this type of collecting, this book should find its place among the others for legitimacy. The gift of research and meticulously giving reference to time and place makes this an enjoyable read. I recommend it for yet another documentation of a process to understand that the most heroic were those who had been under bondage, making the most difficult part of a journey with the help of other enslaved people. Undoubtedly, this will always be an interesting sidelight to other historical content, but will be specific for readers willing to take a chance on this book.	2003-04-05
US	42925694	R10RTFOTWBIBDO	0375506519	953467681	Chocolate Sangria: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A savory and sensual take on blending racial awareness!	Chocolate Sangria  By Tracy Price-Thompson<br />With Black Coffee still on my palate hungering for yet another flavor to color my literary tastes, Chocolate Sangria has been dropped on the table. Tracy Price-Thompson makes the so-called sophomore jinx more an oxymoron than anything else with her latest offering. Gosh, I haven't stopped raving about Black Coffee yet, but this new sampling is a force to be reckoned with!  I read it in two days, passed it on, and have rapidly become spoiled after only two gems from this talent author's pen.  This is an excellent read, with the author not afraid to tackle sensitive issues on race and sex. Chocolate Sangria opens with a prologue that whets the appetite for a much bigger dose of what's in store for those who want more!<br /><br />It will demand attention from the beginning as she writes in a style that is quickly becoming her trademark: straightforward writing with metaphors flying, command of street vernacular lacking complications or subtleties, and vivid characters.  Using Brooklyn as a battered but appropriate backdrop, it examines sensitive issues between two maligned ethnic groups where two lovers, and a set of friends get caught in an intangling culture and social divide forcing them to come to grips with understanding each other. When shared intimacies are allowed to spill over across racial margins, trials and tribulation are par for the course. This is what Juanita, Conan, Jorge, and Scooter faced.<br /><br />Our main character, Juanita Lucas suffers from low self-esteem with a burning desire for answers that haven't been part of her knowing who she really is. The product of a white mother and a black father of Haitian decent, she knew she was different, but didn't have answers. To others she seems to be everything but black. This sets the stage to prove doubters wrong, while continuously proving to belong. Conan is the man who dared to love her. He, a hardworking conscientious brother has problems trying to deal with the untimely death of his twin brother. Jorge, the character everyone will hate, is a conniving thug who opportunistically finds ways to manipulate, until fate threatens to catch up. Scooter is sweetness beyond comparison as the author gives good analogies for us not to forget his part in this drama. Gay and confused, Scooter's sexual exploits with his boss in after-hour trysts give reason for sustained frustration over his sexuality.  Hattie is the matronly hard-edged mother figure that raised Juanita, but has insecurities of her own.<br /><br />I felt that the book could've said what it was supposed to say in a much shorter venue, but it supplied the needed fireworks to illustrate exactly what the author wanted to convey. A little too much emphasis was spent at times on the emotional ramification of her characters instabilities, but it didn't take away from the sheer excitement of the story. The cadence of it reads like a rapid, free-flowing piece easing toward a surprising climax. I feel that this is a story where sexuality, self-identity, the bonding of friendships, and the introspective importance of understanding racial intermingling is tantamount for unpredictable endings that are necessary to come of age. The main and sub characters of this book is an excellent way of showcasing divergent, if not similar lifestyles where black and Hispanic love can coexist.  This book, and Tracy's knack for interjecting the 'hood prominently into the mix for good social references will ultimately set her apart from her contemporaries. There's something about those New York writers that keep putting something in the literary mix that says they're here to stay, Tracy Price-Thompson notwithstanding!lems trying to deal with the untimely death of his twin brother. Jorge, the character everyone will hate, is a conniving thug who opportunistically finds ways to manipulate, until fate threatens to catch up. Scooter is sweetness beyond comparison as the author gives good analogies for us not to forget his part in this drama. Gay and confused, Scooter's sexual exploits with his boss in after-hour trysts give reason for sustained frustration over his sexuality.  Hattie is the matronly hard-edged mother figure that raised Juanita, but has insecurities of her own.<BR> <BR>I felt that the book could've said what it was supposed to say in a much shorter venue, but it supplied the needed fireworks to illustrate exactly what the author wanted to convey. A little too much emphasis was spent at times on the emotional ramification of her characters instabilities, but it didn't take away from the sheer excitement of the story. The cadence of it reads like a rapid, free-flowing piece easing toward a surprising climax. I feel that this is a story where sexuality, self-identity, the bonding of friendships, and the introspective importance of understanding racial intermingling is tantamount for unpredictable endings that are necessary to come of age. The main and sub characters of this book is an excellent way of showcasing divergent, if not similar lifestyles where black and Hispanic love can coexist.  This book, and Tracy's knack for interjecting the 'hood prominently into the mix for good social references will ultimately set her apart from her contemporaries. There's something about those New York writers that keep putting something in the literary mix that says they're here to stay, Tracy Price-Thompson notwithstanding!	2003-02-25
US	42925694	R1E1MA75S6CW1Q	0451207750	496198827	Colored Sugar Water	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bittersweet to the taste, and a good read!	When voodoo mingles with the search for spirituality, and faith is the defining factor in the lives of two women looking to maintain stability, it makes for a good story. Colored Sugar Water is award-winning novelist Vernise Berry's latest book where the aforementioned women face the challenge of trying to understand just what a meaningful relationship should be.  We enter the lives of Lucy Merriweather and Adel Kelly, whose friendship spans 20 years as the brunt of their problems span from spiritual stress, professional ennui, and personal malfunctions within their lives. Borrowing an analogy that Lucy has heard from her grandmother, both women find that their lives are like the colored sugar water Lucy drinks every morning, contrasting being bland and routine, yet sweet and satisfying. Each woman makes a startling choice about what she wants from life and what she needs for spiritual health.<br />Finding whatever is missing in their lives, the midlife issues and troubling relationships brings on daring exploits as they try to straighten out their respective men.  Lucy's problems stems from a sense of insecurity dealing with her emotional and spiritual dreams. Exasperating the situation is her boyfriend, Spencer, a mama's boy who doesn't measure up to her standards.  Adel struggles with a husband who refuses to  grow up, as he works a job where the money is great but the work is unrewarding. Both of these women are forced to reexamine the need for faith as it pertain to sustaining levels of spirituality to find the balance that is fleeting.  Lucy decides to answer the call of a psychic by the name of Kuba, who claims to be all that is missing from her life.  The mysterious Kuba, in the end, turn out to be much more than Lucy bargained for....and to Adel's chagrin it's the beginning of more trouble!<br />Filled with the usual drama that depicts familial relationships gone awry, and the antics that characters deploy to right wrong situations, this book plays into the type of storyline that tend to make the reader wish for more depth to the characters to match the scenarios given.  However, the best thing about this novel is the way the author weaves imaginable passion to produce reasons for Lucy and Adel to discover the power of their unique spiritual gifts. It further establishes Venise Berry as one of our innovative storytellers on the scene today.  Nevertheless, if you've enjoyed any of the author's earlier work, this one will not disappoint. Read it and discover the colored menagerie of her powerful words here.he type of storyline that tend to make the reader wish for more depth to the characters to match the scenarios given.  However, the best thing about this novel is the way the author weaves imaginable passion to produce reasons for Lucy and Adel to discover the power of their unique spiritual gifts. It further establishes Venise Berry as one of our innovative storytellers on the scene today.  Nevertheless, if you've enjoyed any of the author's earlier work, this one will not disappoint. Read it and discover the colored menagerie of her powerful words here.	2003-02-20
US	42925694	R2INDTSIINU204	0345445988	883009992	A Man Finds His Way	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Freddie Lee Johnson, III has indeed found his way !	A MAN FINDS HIS WAY<br />Author:  Freddie Lee Johnson, III<br />Publisher:  Ballantine/One World Books<br />ISBN:  0-345-44598-8<br />Paperback  African-American Fiction<br />Rating:  4 Stars<br />Author Freddie Lee Johnson follows on the heels of his highly successful predicessor, Bittersweet  with yet another look into family drama.<br />Reviewd by:  Alvin C. Romer<br />From bittersweet to being able to savor a better taste, the author allows us a chance to see just how his protagonist handle real and imagined anst to gain favorable positioning. This is the story of Professor Darius Collins, who finds himself trying to keep a balanced life, stay above water, and handle all the ill-will that has befallen him of late. A MAN FINDS HIS WAY is Freddie Lee Johnson's second novel with the same formulaic method depicting a black man doing what is needed to keep his family intact, and still be viable in his chosen environment, albeit amid strife and unfortunate series of events. The novel's beginning stages is a study why men should employ better ways to do what is necessary to keep their women, and better exemplify better methods for conciliatory existence. To wit: Darius'  girlfriend dumps him, his ex-wife is on a personal vendetta, and he is hard-pressed to come up with solutions to deal with the latter when it's disclosed that she is indirectly connected to a former lover.  It doesn't help too, when Professor Collins learns that his adolescent son, Jarrod is accured of rape. The former lover, a corrupt and conniving politician is attempting to frame the boy via extortion.<br />On top of this, the novel moves along with good transition where the author does a credible job of juxtapositioning various subplotting to justify timely introductions to upcoming scenarios. What I liked is the way he set characterization to build crescendos without them hovering too much above what was originally offered. When this is done, it gives the story balance and allow the subplots to have an active role. There's nice contrast throughout as the author seems to give us the lighter fare concerning the main character's romantic life, and how he focuses primarily on Jarrod's plight in the latter part of the book. The author's writing style let you feel comfortable, hoping for a sustained dramatic interludes where the serious political and family overtones are not only congruous, but are depicted in a way to give suspense a deeper meaning here. Sandwiched between all the mayhem is how the Professor deals with the on-campus issues focusing on race relations, workplace bureaucracies, and self-evaluation.<br />This is a well-written novel with a good ending that should elicit familiarity with those who gravitate toward sensitivity, and where the need to make critical decisions to keep a family intact fuels all that is expected for success. I'm of the notion that if this author continues to write with passion he will not only find his way, but will far exceed in securing a comfortable seat among those that are there already!h above what was originally offered. When this is done, it gives the story balance and allow the subplots to have an active role. There's nice contrast throughout as the author seems to give us the lighter fare concerning the main character's romantic life, and how he focuses primarily on Jarrod's plight in the latter part of the book. The author's writing style let you feel comfortable, hoping for a sustained dramatic interludes where the serious political and family overtones are not only congruous, but are depicted in a way to give suspense a deeper meaning here. Sandwiched between all the mayhem is how the Professor deals with the on-campus issues focusing on race relations, workplace bureaucracies, and self-evaluation. <br />This is a well-written novel with a good ending that should elicit familiarity with those who gravitate toward sensitivity, and where the need to make critical decisions to keep a family intact fuels all that is expected for success. I'm of the notion that if this author continues to write with passion he will not only find his way, but will far exceed in securing a comfortable seat among those that are there already!	2003-02-10
US	42925694	R1IAFA0HP8OV8R	0446527947	327413434	Patti's Pearls: Lessons in Living Genuinely, Joyfully, Generously	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Real gems...Lessons to live by!	For 40 years as a singer, Patti LaBelle has mesmerized us with a style that many imitate but rarely duplicate. The stylistic rendering of this diva of song from her third Literary effort, Patti's Pearls: Lessons In Living Genuinely, Joyfully, Generously, are self-help inspirational guidelines delivered in a believable idiom much like her singing -- with invigorating energy that implores one to sit up and listen. After listening, I couldn't help but bring to mind my own upbringing, remembering much of the same logic being dispensed here. Written in tandem with her longtime friend, Laura Randolph Lancaster, this offering is in audio form which adds a different, if not compelling. version in light of Patti's stage machinations.<br />If the intent is to truly inspire, cajole, and motivate, one easily wonders whether these \\"pearls\\" are a direct result from personal tragedy, mayhem, or situations from being there. One thing that I feel listeners will agree with is her candor and down-to-earth voice capturing valuable lessons. If you're looking for something different, perhaps you must take a look at yourself before giving this audio-book a chance, especially if it's perceived that they all are one and the same. I feel that to each his own, and one must give a meaningful listen to get the gist of what this author is trying to say. I recommend it&iexcl;listen for what it's worth. This would be \\"the perfect anecdote for the ultimate secret of happiness; to grow wise before you grow old\\" as Patti opined in one of her pearly delights. Give it a shot!	2003-02-07
US	42925694	R21X1M4OZNYIZ5	0385490356	698014807	Zora Neale Hurston: A Life in Letters	Books	5	12	12	N	N	This book revealed more than a life...The legend continues	Putting words to paper, from writing letters, notes, or even a book often epitomizes the need to garner those thoughts that should be preserved lest we forget that when done right, can be worth the work.  Zora Neale Hurston: A Life In Letters, edited by Karla Kaplan captivates an anthology revealing contradictions and conjectures of a woman who was the most brazenly impious of the Harlem literary avant-garde, and who never fit happily within any political group. This is truly a big book at 880 pages, certainly not one to read verbatim. Even in bulk, the substance therein is worth spending time getting a gist of what was on her mind while appealing to the personalities that she directed the letters to. Ironically, I used a unique method to get more out of this tome by reading it in tandem with Wrapped In Rainbows, a biography written by journalist Valerie Boyd. By doing it this way, I was able to make direct reference to certain passages outlined in the biography whenever emphasis was made to specific letters written. This book has a character of its own, and allows you to feel the essence of Zora herself. The fact that Zora was quoted often enough to be elevated to legendary status, and what you read therein is Zora at her best.  The letters were more than 500 in all, written through the eyes of a woman who always had something to say and said it vociferously.<br />I personally feel that her life in letters reveal more about her than perhaps the entire body of her published works combined, especially since books that were considered autobiographical didn't reveal nearly as much as they should have. Her tone and tenor for the most part was vivacious illustrating wit, irony, satire, and quirky anecdotes that were evident in some capacity as she conveyed her thoughts. The subjects of her intent were to authoritative figures such as Carl Van Vecten, Lanston Hughes, Franz Boaz, Dorothy West, W.E.B. DuBois, Alain Locke, and many others..And you could see what gave her spunk.  The true essence of the book other than giving you what you already know about Zora, would be other facets of her personality. I was able to get views of different transitional periods as she endeavored to reinvent herself whenever the mood struck. To wit: Her years as a Barnard College undergrad; Turbulent years trying to conform to Columbia University studying under Franz Boaz; Zora the twice honored Guggenheim fellow; Zora the folklorist; and, Zora in total chaos.<br />To suffer bitterly and not be considered within the public domain for acceptability, A Life In Letters reads like a gigantic reference manual with gobs of information, a well-documented glossary of the people, places, events, and institutions meticulously annotated by Ms Kaplan. Check out how each decade is introduced by an essay on societal and personal points that distinguished Zora relative to that specific time frame. This is a fine, well put together, if not revealing work into the intimate psyche about this brilliant and complex woman who all acknowledge now of being way ahead of her time. Reading this book, Hurston fans will slake thirst, appease hunger, and get a better flavor to what has been cooked up about her....real or imagined. What better way to shed light than to illuminate periphery than with the vivid letters she wrote?nk.  The true essence of the book other than giving you what you already know about Zora, would be other facets of her personality. I was able to get views of different transitional periods as she endeavored to reinvent herself whenever the mood struck. To wit: Her years as a Barnard College undergrad; Turbulent years trying to conform to Columbia University studying under Franz Boaz; Zora the twice honored Guggenheim fellow; Zora the folklorist; and, Zora in total chaos. <br />To suffer bitterly and not be considered within the public domain for acceptability, A Life In Letters reads like a gigantic reference manual with gobs of information, a well-documented glossary of the people, places, events, and institutions meticulously annotated by Ms Kaplan. Check out how each decade is introduced by an essay on societal and personal points that distinguished Zora relative to that specific time frame. This is a fine, well put together, if not revealing work into the intimate psyche about this brilliant and complex woman who all acknowledge now of being way ahead of her time. Reading this book, Hurston fans will slake thirst, appease hunger, and get a better flavor to what has been cooked up about her....real or imagined. What better way to shed light than to illuminate periphery than with the vivid letters she wrote?	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R2MGS0DU3A7GRA	0743410092	438443092	Douglass' Women: A Novel	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Unrequited love times two	More often than not, extraordinary lives are shrouded in obscurity, especially when measured against time and magnified beyond proportion if it's subjective to a historic figure for comparison. Adequate research allow us to reach across time and get a second look at abolitionist Frederick Douglass and the women behind his success..and what a story they have to tell! Jewell Parker-Rhodes' awe-inspiring account of this story is told within the pages of her new book, The Douglass' Women. Insightful and profound, we get a chance to witness the trials and tribulation of two women conveying the range and depth of emotions felt loving the same man...or reveling in the skill of the author displaying the idiosyncracies of polar opposites. These are differences underscored by the constant jockeying for position, with both of them longing for the answers of who belongs. This book is more than a story of love and passion. It gives a different view of Frederick Douglass beyond his fight for the abolition of slavery and his eloquence for public speaking. It reveals his emotions and human side to fragile interpretations of the heart, and why he made the decisions concerning the need to have these women beyond amorous liasions. A good case can be made for this novel in assessing interesting ways to look at how a man trreated love and passion, what made him do the things he did for love, and what drove him to continue when it was evident that it was not to his best interest . It's more in my opinion too, about innuendo gone awry...about the extremes present with a man hell-bent on espousing the importance of his life's work in lieu of guaranteeing matrimonial happiness at the expense of two that thrived on (his) acceptance.<br />The book ascertains from the beginning and builds to heightened awareness of what led to Ottillie's presence, and sustained reasons why he chose to stay married. Reasons supplied in the book tell why they were as influential to him despite, if not because of, the circumstances attributing to his persona. It was written in the style of alternating perspectives of distaff Anna Murray Douglass and Ottilie Assing, with occasional reference to Frederick Douglass' daughter Rosetta. Let's look at the personas of each: Anna Douglass was a plain and simple free black who did more for Douglass than portray the duties of a wife. If not for her, Douglass would not have made it up north. She suffered in her own rebellous way, demanding answers that wasn't given to her until a fateful meeting with her antagonist, Otillie (if you can depict her as such). Ottilie Assing was a well-educated abolitionist Jew from a well-to-do family, who not only became his constant companion, speech writer, public relations guru, translator, but also his...lover. Rosetta Douglass loved and revered her father, but felt inferior to the point of always needing the wherewithal to please him, and to live up to being a child of the great Frederick Douglass. Add all of the intrigue and dialogue from both Anna and Ottilie, you get adjectives such as passion, jealousy, resentment, and envy. It's stories like this that are not always in the public domain, but may elicit a situation where in one person's mind there's reason to perpetuate an uneasy solidarity in sharing love, in an unrequited way. It's important when reading this book that you're mindful of how the author was able to weave it in a way where telling a good story is equal to the parts rendered. What these ladies poured out of their souls made this book what it is, and how parallels were were drawn for constrast. I imagined without recourse that their character makeup via how these thoughts were conveyed, gave Ms Rhodes all the ingenuity needed to make this a poignant and compelling read. She did it by allowing us a seat in each of their imaginations, displaying all of the anst, anger, and anticipation of any type of reciprocality. I felt that the rotating narratives were extremely functional in making a case for it to be a two-sided tale.<br />When reading this novel, there are questions to be answered: Did he really love these women, and to what extent? Was his decision(s) motivated by practicality or real passion? And, how were they able to come to terms with the situation? For this reviewer, reasons were evident that the black vs. white issue was irrevelent as opposed to what each woman got out of the relationship, and what lessons were learned. It should be evident too, about how Jewell Parker-Rhodes expertly made the picture bigger by applying the canvas with enough color to paint the passions and tensions in the lives of these women, each giving reason and implied rationale to belong. Display this book among the other Duglass collectibles. Buying and reading this book is a must if you want to get yet, another view of one of history's prolific men.ng a case for it to be a two-sided tale.<br />When reading this novel, there are questions to be answered: Did he really love these women, and to what extent? Was his decision(s) motivated by practicality or real passion? And, how were they able to come to terms with the situation? For this reviewer, reasons were evident that the black vs. white issue was irrevelent as opposed to what each woman got out of the relationship, and what lessons were learned. It should be evident too, about how Jewell Parker-Rhodes expertly made the picture bigger by applying the canvas with enough color to paint the passions and tensions in the lives of these women, each giving reason and implied rationale to belong. Display this book among the other Duglass collectibles. Buying and reading this book is a must if you want to get yet, another view of one of history's prolific men.	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R2G9V1R9A1LCF6	188577897X	124962982	Across Time, Love Eternal	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Excellent setting, but story doesn't reach designattion	Using a classic era as a backdrop, and aligning it with a genre that may not have been the recipient of attention from any other writer, this should be the impetus for historic science fiction to show some color and take an advantageous facade. With first impressions doing wonders for visual effects, the cover art rendered for O.J. Harp, III's debut offering is eye-catching to say the least. I read this book with mixed emotions. On one hand, I hungered for a read of epic proportions with the book cover whetting my appetite showing sacred images of pyramids and the colorful and iconic replica of King Tut in all of its splendor. Tease me with the specter of vivid coloration, and it would be easy for me to believe that a story of epic dimension would be par for the course. I would imagine then, that Across Time: Love Eternal being for the author a way to engross the reader into the psychological importance of embracing Egyptian culture lore, and him being able to craft a storyline with a contemporary feel. I got neither.<br />What I got was a greater appreciation for the author's persistent penchant for research and his ability to give reference to all of the historical analogies to support this period piece as being legit. Wrapping it around an enigmatic prop extolling mysticism, intrigue, magic, futuristic gadgetry, holographic imagery, and giving it a feel for it to be a love story was too much soup for the kitchen to handle. Albeit, and with more concern for readers to be able to learn history as it's being portrayed here, it would behoove readers to not get lost along the way to comprehension. Why?  Fiction of this nature is not widely appreciated, it would have been best if this tale didn't have so many conflicting plots so early in the script. The author gives a gallant effort, and does a credible job when historic content is needed to illustrate a point. The story is agonizingly slow in the beginning, and I surmise here that the author's intent was to build the characters and give reference to setting. This is a love story with a different twist in an authentic, if not alluring aura with omniscient overtones as the protagonists travel in retrospect from the distant past to the present. Using and implementing survival techniques for progression, the characters are allowed much latitude to encompass wide areas of interpretation...and this, I feel, is one of the major flaws of this book. Disjointed in parts, with too much going on before adequately defining and sustaining a flowing sequence of events to suggest stability, the story leaves one wondering which analogy to follow in assessing the author's point(s) of reference. As such, the feverish activity, and frenetic confusion takes away from the good creative _expression that is evident throughout the novel.<br />The theme is timeless, but if conveyed in a way where plots and subplots doesn't cause chaos without losing the strength of the story, the reader would not be left exasperated recovering from one climatic high to the next. The challenge in reading this book (if not abandoned out of frustration), would be to do so without underlying notions of the `what's next' theory.<br />A wide audience might find this novel exciting and informative because of the potential to educate beyond the normal fare in fiction. If I were ignorant of historic facts as it pertained to Ramesses the Great, Imhotep, and the pharaonic influence on Egyptian mystique, I would have been more than satisfied. The latter suggests an upside that saves this offering from mediocrity. Where good fluid narrative should've been complimentary fostering ideas of continuity, it wasn't there, save for deterrents that kept it too busy. If this can be avoided in future writing endeavors, reading across time may eventually have its merits, and O.J. Harp, III would be able to establish a literary legacy that should be eternal for all of his future fans. Despite this reviewer's slant, one should read this book foryour own interpretation for there is still something to be salvaged.your own interpretation for there is still something to be salvaged.	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R1JQ643HL913RX	0060934549	142160424	Every Tongue Got to Confess: Negro Folk-tales from the Gulf States	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Telling the truth and shaming the devil...Zora's Way!	It was said from those that knew her best, that African-American folklore was Zora Neale Hurstons first love. The ability to manifest in, and excel within the margins of her own peopleswapping lies, telling tales, and giving unique meaning to life from the backhand side. Thus, if any part of her legacy is to prevail, one should pay close attention to this side of her that I feel truly helped to define her writing style. No doubt, the genesis of it all goes back to her Eatonville, Florida roots sitting on the porch of the neighborhood story listening to the older men adhere to the aforementioned. Subsequently as a Barnard student of Anthropology under the guidance of Franz Boaz, she embarked in 1927 on a two-year effort to collect samples of African-American folklore. This sets the stage for Negro Tales From The Gulf States, which can boast of an interesting evolution. This is a book written by Zora that was almost an afterthought, until recently discovered after lying in obscurity for nearly 30 years.  All of this time, it was stored in a basement at Columbia University, and 20 more at the Smithsonian before coming to light at the urging of the authors estate and others.<br />What we have here in borrowing Zoras own words  authenticity to preserve the tale-tellers way of speakingsavoring the boiled-down juice of human living.  The book is well written and organized by subject. Read it and revel in how the author used and presented vernacular that would be recognized today as Ebonicseveryday idiomatic expressionism. You will witness improvisational wordplay and given an apt explanation of how these folktales were collected, lost, found, and examined for the deep significance they hold today. These lost southern tales are brought to life by Zoras commanding use of syntax mixed with a sense of urgency. Most of them are infused with humorous stories making a point that we can all identify with. She makes it pointedly clear that folktales were a direct link to our ancestral background, and served a purpose. I marveled at how she was able to use stories made famous by others in how they were reworked and related from a black point of view, giving them a special cross-cultural ring. For instance, to the story of a woman who promises the devil that she will break up a marriage in exchange for a pair of shoes, or how she gives reasons why God gave women keys to the bedroom, the kitchen, and the cradle. You will die laughing, and you will definitely be amused by the punch lines and the Zora penchant for comedic timing.<br />If theres a reason to want to understand folktales told from the mind of this unique storyteller, youd want to be enlightened in digesting this type of wit that the author seem to make timeless. In accumulating this body of work, Hurston clearly placed as much emphasis on imagination as on truism. Often she got both. With all the other offering of late alluding to Zora Neale Hurston, you might as well add this book to your collection. You wont regret it!re a direct link to our ancestral background, and served a purpose. I marveled at how she was able to use stories made famous by others in how they were reworked and related from a black point of view, giving them a special cross-cultural ring. For instance, to the story of a woman who promises the devil that she will break up a marriage in exchange for a pair of shoes, or how she gives reasons why God gave women keys to the bedroom, the kitchen, and the cradle. You will die laughing, and you will definitely be amused by the punch lines and the Zora penchant for comedic timing. <br />If theres a reason to want to understand folktales told from the mind of this unique storyteller, youd want to be enlightened in digesting this type of wit that the author seem to make timeless. In accumulating this body of work, Hurston clearly placed as much emphasis on imagination as on truism. Often she got both. With all the other offering of late alluding to Zora Neale Hurston, you might as well add this book to your collection. You wont regret it!	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R1T8LAM2RLLOUA	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Eye on the prize, telling a good tale, and creating a legacy	To write such a seminal novel as Their Eyes Were Watching God, and for it to become a signature piece says quite a bit for a book that went out of print not long after its first appearance. Coincidentally, it stayed out of print for nearly 30 years. Like the proverbial lore of the Phoenix rising, it not only adds resilience to the authors legacy but proves without a doubt that good workseven neglected ones should be reexamined for overall viability and content analysis despite determined imperviousness to shame. The previous statement alludes itself to efforts by the establishment not understanding the style in which it was written, and the authors ways of languishing (albeit negatively) in the publics eye. To understand this novel, one first need to know that Zora doesnt write directly about black people in the context of a white singular world, but writes exclusively within the confines of black expressionism. This is a book that, despite its lofty status as a classical force of a national epic, it offers a people his or her own spoken language freshly caught on paper and raised to the heights of poetry.<br />Their Eyeshas universal implications for women in that it protests against the restrictions and limitations imposed upon women by a masculine society. Zora illustrates and give credence to a heroine, Janie Crawford, who must make a major decision about the course of her life. This fluid love story full of thoughtful interpretative realism, pays tribute to a black woman, who, thought constricted by the signs of the times, still demanded to be heard. The characters resonate with colorful imagery: Janies three husbands, Mir. Killicks, Mayor Starks, her best friend Phoeby, Tea Cake, and the other images that she allows to come to life. The story is rather awkwardly told by both Janie, and an omniscient narrator, and is revealed, for the most part, in a flashback to Phoeby Watson. The key to the novel is Janies idea of marriage, which is pitted against other, less romantic ideas of a perfect union. Janie ends up on trial for the murder  in self-defense of the man she loved. The people who knew the couple side against her at the trial, hoping to see her hanged. It is the whites the judge and jury, and a group of women originally gathered just for curiositys sake  which see into the anguished depths of a black womans love and acknowledge her dignity and ultimate innocence. Janie feels no compulsion to justify herself to the town, but she gives more homage and insightful explanation to Phoeby.<br />This is a book that should be read by all, with its main thrust toward life and the fact of it being an affirmation rather than denial of why women possess much more strength than menat least in this adaptation. I like it because it speaks for the self, for equality, for the pursuit of happiness instead of possessions, and lastly, it speaks for and seems to recommend a way of life uncluttered by tradition, sterotypes, and materialism. Zora had the right idea and made statements. She left us with a good signature, reminding us that we may yet learn the possibilities of ourselves only If you kin see de light at daybreak, you dont keer if you die at dusk wit so many people never seein de light at all. Ah wuz fumblin round and God opened de door.  This is Zora at her best!tted against other, less romantic ideas of a perfect union. Janie ends up on trial for the murder  in self-defense of the man she loved. The people who knew the couple side against her at the trial, hoping to see her hanged. It is the whites the judge and jury, and a group of women originally gathered just for curiositys sake  which see into the anguished depths of a black womans love and acknowledge her dignity and ultimate innocence. Janie feels no compulsion to justify herself to the town, but she gives more homage and insightful explanation to Phoeby.<br />This is a book that should be read by all, with its main thrust toward life and the fact of it being an affirmation rather than denial of why women possess much more strength than menat least in this adaptation. I like it because it speaks for the self, for equality, for the pursuit of happiness instead of possessions, and lastly, it speaks for and seems to recommend a way of life uncluttered by tradition, sterotypes, and materialism. Zora had the right idea and made statements. She left us with a good signature, reminding us that we may yet learn the possibilities of ourselves only If you kin see de light at daybreak, you dont keer if you die at dusk wit so many people never seein de light at all. Ah wuz fumblin round and God opened de door.  This is Zora at her best!	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R3SQQXHHPRHODI	0613493141	469204683	Finding Fish (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Of redeeming value and uncompromising faith...	Every so often a new voice emerges to give credence to circumstances so compelling that it warrants a closer look at what brings situations so vividly to life in the maps of minds that a reader will want to stop what they're doing and look it up...as if longitude and latitude could explain the magic of real life drama. But when told with such force and determination, you readily realize that it is still part of the fabric that weaves social intercourse a strident discourse in what needs to be done for amends. Antwone Fisher's story is just that kind of situation. Finding Fish, the book, is a rocky-style saga about personal triumph and overcoming improbable odds. It deals with trauma, and what can happen when governing bodies have jurisdiction over, and legislate a child's safe passage to unaccredited receivership. Foster home care for all the good that it embodies comes with inherent problems that cause havoc for receipents who're forced to carry the baggage and suffer the consequences. Overcoming a troubled past, righting wrongs, and being able to discuss it without inhibitions are truly challenges that compelled the author to shed light on his story.<br />From the beginning this novel will have you spellbound, if not appalled at how adversity can subvert the best laid plans to go awry. Save for a few lapses into lumbering sentimentality, this is an uncommonly tough and poignant underdog story told undoubted by Mr. Fisher with intrepidation. How can a story like this be told without first conquering the past before being able to confront the future? A set of unfortunate circumstances set the stage here: His father was killed by a gunshot blast shortly before he was born in 1959; His young adlescent mother couldn't handle the pressure at 17 in raising a son, so she gave him up to adoption; and once in the system, he had to deal with a foster parents' relentless binges of cruelty, both mental and physical. The gist of the story gives it insulation against what I feel would be disgust and anger when read for its full impact...and this is where the author writes from the heart, capturing the loneliness and sorrow of a dismal childhood and his determination and resolve to rise above it. A book written like this should have no problem in keeping readers fully engaged and hopeful for a good ending. In his later teen years he find solace in the Navy where he becomes a man, taking advantage of the discipline and tenets that would become his saving grace.<br />Descriptive books like this rarely find one not being able to empathize and be sympathetic to the other vices common to this story. I speak of religious hypocrisy, sex abuse at the hands of various female caretakers, and emotional instability. The fact that Antwone first experienced the N word so early in life didn't make him immune to the injustices of self-esteem as he grew older and endeavored to bring levity and light to his dark world. As I read this book, I did much more than root for the underdog -- I purposed in my mind that somehow there must be a way for all foster care children to seek ways to not let it steal hope, and that I'd take a second look at why and to whom I mentor. I wanted a happy ending as I approached epilog, for this I know, was a story that needed to be told. You will want to read this book and be reminded that for every homeless child, for every misplaced child treated as wards of the state as it pertain to foster care, or anything close to that which is an anathema of our society for the betterment of safe havens for them, sanctity should be given alll of your attention for the good of well-intended hope. Buy this book, read it, and be responsive to those that may share the same plight as one, Antwone Fisher did.would be disgust and anger when read for its full impact...and this is where the author writes from the heart, capturing the loneliness and sorrow of a dismal childhood and his determination and resolve to rise above it. A book written like this should have no problem in keeping readers fully engaged and hopeful for a good ending. In his later teen years he find solace in the Navy where he becomes a man, taking advantage of the discipline and tenets that would become his saving grace.<br />Descriptive books like this rarely find one not being able to empathize and be sympathetic to the other vices common to this story. I speak of religious hypocrisy, sex abuse at the hands of various female caretakers, and emotional instability. The fact that Antwone first experienced the N word so early in life didn't make him immune to the injustices of self-esteem as he grew older and endeavored to bring levity and light to his dark world. As I read this book, I did much more than root for the underdog -- I purposed in my mind that somehow there must be a way for all foster care children to seek ways to not let it steal hope, and that I'd take a second look at why and to whom I mentor. I wanted a happy ending as I approached epilog, for this I know, was a story that needed to be told. You will want to read this book and be reminded that for every homeless child, for every misplaced child treated as wards of the state as it pertain to foster care, or anything close to that which is an anathema of our society for the betterment of safe havens for them, sanctity should be given alll of your attention for the good of well-intended hope. Buy this book, read it, and be responsive to those that may share the same plight as one, Antwone Fisher did.	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R3M5Y4ICR7P2YA	0595193633	933887420	Rested Memories: The Majestic Series	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Majestic Michelle and a Memorable Book	What makes a story a must read, one that you know holds the key to contentment while reading it taken from a series, even? Continuous sagas that are held in balance with intriguing and suspenseful subplots, along with extenuating characterization should answer that question. When a writer is in a zon,e and a writing style is able to induce a need to follow recurring themes, it more than adds to status quo in the makeup of a successful literary series. You want to give your readers a sense of continuity by crafting characters that allow the need for change. Michelle McGriff's The Majestic Series gives us the fourth installment to solidify this. Rested Memories, is the book where all of the above play an important part in making this entity a significant unit of the serial whole. This is so because we follow one of the protagonists, Jimmy Smith, both in retrospect and in present-day drama as he deals with situations that are direct influences to him, and others that are circumstantially beyond his control. Know that Jimmy Smith is a wealthy man who had everything, but peace of mind....who went on to found, produce, and lead a tremendously successful band which proved to be at the forefront of his problems.<br />This is also a story of murder, mayhem, and mystery surrounding Mr. Smith and the characters that are central to the storyline, with the entertainment world as a formidable backdrop. The story excellerates with Jimmy and Destiny and their attempts to fathom a life together. The author does a good job of throwing a wrench into it to test it to the fullest. The past has a way of letting all concerned that it's business as usual!  Also Eljen and Tearza.... and what will attempt to keep them from happiness. We have the ruthless ElJen and the bad blood that is displayed throughout between them; Candice and Rickki, two women he couldn't do without; His sister Mary who was strong but too weak for the 'bad apple' Simon; Then there were the sultry Destiny (ElJen's daughter who's spotlighted in a previous book within the series) who he couldn't resist; and the surrogate and real families that sprung up to give this book it's misplaced title. There are questions and answers to them that keeps this an interesting read, among them: Who REALLY killed Lasiter, and why? Will Jimmy allow the past to rear it's ugly head to reveal secrets best left alone? What happened that caused the tragic death of Jimmy's lover Rickki?<br />In order to really understand and delve into the myriad of subplots that this book has, one should invest into the previous titles within the series. Unrequited love, adultery, and the games people play to keep their toys intact will always be main ingredients to a well developed storyline with matching characters. The chapters are short, breezy, and easy to contemplate without having to wait until the next scenario to unfold before abandoning interest. Michelle's writing style too, gives the reader a sense of contentment because of how easy the dialogue is juxtaposed within the storyline for easy adaptation. I recommend this book and the whole series. My assessment of why one should read and discover this author is a testament to the short article I wrote, the interview displayed, and the review of this book. Michelle is bubbling on the top, destined to me a force in this industry. Any aspiring writer should deem it necessary to heed her advice. As this is but one of the several intriguing stories within a series, please do yourself justice by familiarizing yourself with the whole gamut to fully appreciate The Majestic Series.ter who's spotlighted in a previous book within the series) who he couldn't resist; and the surrogate and real families that sprung up to give this book it's misplaced title. There are questions and answers to them that keeps this an interesting read, among them: Who REALLY killed Lasiter, and why? Will Jimmy allow the past to rear it's ugly head to reveal secrets best left alone? What happened that caused the tragic death of Jimmy's lover Rickki?<br />In order to really understand and delve into the myriad of subplots that this book has, one should invest into the previous titles within the series. Unrequited love, adultery, and the games people play to keep their toys intact will always be main ingredients to a well developed storyline with matching characters. The chapters are short, breezy, and easy to contemplate without having to wait until the next scenario to unfold before abandoning interest. Michelle's writing style too, gives the reader a sense of contentment because of how easy the dialogue is juxtaposed within the storyline for easy adaptation. I recommend this book and the whole series. My assessment of why one should read and discover this author is a testament to the short article I wrote, the interview displayed, and the review of this book. Michelle is bubbling on the top, destined to me a force in this industry. Any aspiring writer should deem it necessary to heed her advice. As this is but one of the several intriguing stories within a series, please do yourself justice by familiarizing yourself with the whole gamut to fully appreciate The Majestic Series.	2003-01-29
US	42925694	R2I8FV6DG8HDNU	0970499515	858505917	Someone's in the Kitchen	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Hot drama and a spicy love story	Following on the heels of his stellar debut novel Real For Me, Author Eric E. Pete is starting from where he left off. His latest work, Someone's In The Kitchen is a delightful read, warm, and breezy that allows you to follow without being bogged down with excessive dialogue and unnecessary fluff. The story centers around two friends Reggie Collins and Neal Wallace who for all intended purposes are there for each other when angst intrudes, and adversity threatens to be more than just a bit player in their lives. Complete opposites of one another, the authors make an interesting case dealing with ethics, pride, and the element of time to concoct this story of betrayed loyalties.<br />Reggie is single, conceited, and outgoing. Neal is married but having matrimonial problems while trying to realize goals and aspirations. A prior set of events and what has happened in their pasts sets the stage for the author to define what it means to be a true friends and how each react to what is brought to the table to be dealt with. This is a classic example of the clich&eacute; of what happens in the dark will surely come to light...only this time we have Reggie and Neal living it out with frayed and fragile emotions that tests their friendship.<br />You know you have a good book on your hand when you are compelled to read despite the fact that there are other things on the agenda...but you just can't seem to put this book down! However, this can be deemed an adult read since it's somewhat heavy on explicit language, sexual content, and a theme relative to a matured mind. The main characters are perfect foils for each other with a vibrant supporting cast. There are no looses ends, no hanging metaphors where simile and hyperbole would tend to clash, and definitely no loss for innuendo to allow the author to come back with either a sequel or more of this thoughtful writing style!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	RWSIWS99R1MGM	0316073016	859287908	Bad Boy Brawly Brown (Easy Rawlins Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Easy Does It Again!....	Mystery fiction readers already hip to Walter Mosley's penchant for capturing the uniqueness of time and place, will readily recognize variations of a familar theme in his latest Easy Rawlins adventure, Bad Boy Brawly Brown.<br />Despite a meandering and involved plot, it gains style points by once again allowing the protagonist to exert himself in a way that black men would want to emulate....and that is living a dignified life, where chivalry is not allowed to die, and where helping others who have limited resources get a chance to have problems solved and still have change left over for acceptance in the community! In this case, we find Easy lamenting over the possible demise of his friend and sidekick, Mouse (Raymond Alexander) while waiting for the next drama to unfold. It comes in the form of the all of his cases are determined: Helping a friend with a problem, reluctantly acquiescing, and finally giving in to the need to make things happen. I'm more than biased as I've long been a fan relative to the opening statement of this book review.<br />What keeps me turning pages is a realistic, believable, and compelling detective who's not adverse to using guile, wit, good and bad luck to take advantage of happenstance. To really understand Easy Rawlins, and see why the books are such Easy reads consider the modus operandi that has become a staple for Mosley: establishing rationale for the heroic while deftly manipulating and exposing a black community through the favors, fears, and friendships Easy trades on. Int this depiction it allows our hero to stand out as an icon underscoring the relevance of a proud, resourceful gumshoe used to getting results.<br />Bad Boy Brawly Brown uses the backdrop of the civil rights era, circa 1963 taking readers back to Compton, CA during the months leading to the Watts riots. With racial tension at an all time high, Easy seemed to have solved all of life's complexities despite the strife around him..until he's pulled out of respectability by a call for help from his friend, John. John asks to be helped in tracking down Brawly Brown, son of his girlfriend, Alva Torres. It doesn't help matters none when rumor has it that Brawly may have fallen into bad company, either with seasoned thugs who may be holding him for ransom, or with a group of radicals whose strident ideals and angry politics are pointing toward vociferous protest.<br />In typical Easy fashion, the author introduces subplots and adjunct characters to set the tone and pace for an engaging story. There's an underlining, if not intriguing query attributing to Mouse's true whereabouts that make you think something is missing due to the role of the latter in all the books of this series. Is he still alive? Will it affect Easy's job of locating Brawly? Tune in and read this book, it doesn't disappoint. The Mosely fans will readily see that the Mosley think tank is intact and full of color...the natural cadence of speech and behavioral patterns of a community ring true -- with Easy right in the middle!ectability by a call for help from his friend, John. John asks to be helped in tracking down Brawly Brown, son of his girlfriend, Alva Torres. It doesn't help matters none when rumor has it that Brawly may have fallen into bad company, either with seasoned thugs who may be holding him for ransom, or with a group of radicals whose strident ideals and angry politics are pointing toward vociferous protest. <br />In typical Easy fashion, the author introduces subplots and adjunct characters to set the tone and pace for an engaging story. There's an underlining, if not intriguing query attributing to Mouse's true whereabouts that make you think something is missing due to the role of the latter in all the books of this series. Is he still alive? Will it affect Easy's job of locating Brawly? Tune in and read this book, it doesn't disappoint. The Mosely fans will readily see that the Mosley think tank is intact and full of color...the natural cadence of speech and behavioral patterns of a community ring true -- with Easy right in the middle!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R6SCUGKCIHT41	0375757449	595460738	Promises to Keep: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Ms Mallette doesn't go back on her word...A Promising Novel!	In Promises To Keep, Gloria Mallette's follow up to Shades Of Jade, we find Troy Kirkwood, a recently divorced father of a 5 year murdered in cold blood while at the movies with his daughter. What follows after this is a study of how murder, hayhem, and mystery play havoc in a close-knit African-American family. Iit's amazing how ill-will find a place to right wrongs, and in this case it shows how one family becomes unglued and the joy of seeing it put back together in a series of configurations that sets this novel apart from others ranging in the same genre.<br />Setting the stage for this story involves the tragic loss of a son and father, the struggle to keep the family together, and the tracking of a meticulous killer who is adept at covering his tracks. Familial obligations, the strength of love, and strong family ties give this novel a lot of flavor. The more I read, the more I surmised that it's not so much a mystery as it reads more of the resolve it took for the Kirkwoods to act as a unified force in keeping the homefront intact.<br />A great storyline, a moving plot, and character driven, the author does an excellent job of exploring the range of strengths and weaknesses of each family member as they wrrestle with the pain of loss. The youngest son Vann, headstrong with a temper to match, play a pivotal part with his exuberance and zeal to play the ultimate detective at the expense of the real detective originally assigned the case. Nola and Ron, parents of the deceased must face their own shortcomings displaying envious tendencies, flings of jealousy, deceit, and insecurity based on guilt feelings for not being good parents in their way of thinking.<br />The story moves along in the beginning at a reasonable clip but tend to slow and bog down in the middle stages when the author focuses too much on the sappy scenes depicting intra-family nuances that could have been left out all together. After reading many non-fiction books with heavy subject matter for the last few months, I was ready for the change of pace, something light---not to be confused or implied as poorly written. Promises to Keep was full and I completed the book with a good sense of satisfaction. The characters were nicely drawn. I can't argue with the logic, narrative, or direction of the story. Promises to Keep was a soundly constructed story and moved at a nice steady clip. I relished it and anxiously look forward to Mallette's next novel.or the last few months, I was ready for the change of pace, something light---not to be confused or implied as poorly written. Promises to Keep was full and I completed the book with a good sense of satisfaction. The characters were nicely drawn. I can't argue with the logic, narrative, or direction of the story. Promises to Keep was a soundly constructed story and moved at a nice steady clip. I relished it and anxiously look forward to Mallette's next novel.	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R1BKXI83V9WVVG	0972028005	367771486	That's The Way Love Goes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Follow the path of love..and find an amusing debut novel!	Now comes debut author Daryl C. Diggs with another boy meets girl saga with overtones of a love lost, regained, and redemption personified in the person of Donavin Jackson. Though sparse in page number, this book managed to keep my attention and proved to be quite entertaining, and is quite deceptive from the surface.<br />This is an easy read where we find Donavin in the mold of a suave, debonair ladies man, full of charm confident on his ability to play the women and not be on the wrong side of love - until he meets Jasmine DeRoche a beautiful woman and sexy doyenne who sweeps him off his feet. After a whirlwind romance they are destined to go separate ways for a while and this is where the action really begins! As in any relationship of grand proportion, trust and understanding will be the base for not only lasting friendship, but a guarantee for a long romance.<br />The author does a credible job in illustrating points of contention on those subjects, but really allow the book to add flavor along the way while interspersing the antics of friends J.R. and Spoon to the mix. In my opinion, what make this a good read are the storyline and the author's ability to combine different elements to tell a simple story. I harkened back to how he's able to meld comedy, love, family, friendship, and how it all comes to fruition with a believable end.<br />Witness the Billion Dollar Playboys, as Donavin, Spoon, and J.R. dubbed themselves as they play the game of hunter capturing the game. A serious twist to the plot occur when Jasmine enters the picture reassuring that the boys have met their match, especially Donovin.... but it doesn't stop there. Mr. Diggs gives it a sense of realness, managing to keep the narrative moving and fresh. The comedic exchange adds a good muse to insure this one of the better short books I read this year. Rest assured this book will demand a sequel, or for the author to not tease us with brevity at the expense of a longer novel. I look forward to his next offering with great anticipation.his next offering with great anticipation.	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R1X19ESXNBU427	0971809267	618402230	Dark Side of Valor	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Single Saga Brought To Light	The mere subject matter of this book is enough to keep this a page turning delight. As such, it catches your attention as you read the prolog for things to come. Dark Side Of Valor, though its a debut offering, reads like a narrative that makes you appreciate good writing and how an author has truly done his/her homework for viability.<br />Alicia Singleton should be applauded for telling a tale that echoes familiar tones dealing with the subject of homeless children and runnaways. The main character, Lelia is a lesson in perseverance and having the determination to stick and stay despite the pitfalls in her wake. Child advocacy and helping those less fortunate will always endear those that are truly receptive to the plight of children forced into circumstances beyond their control a necessary truism. The genesis of the book meets Leila when she as a teen forms the ideologics in her manning the moniker of The Street Angel -- giving hope to the hopeless, inspiring others to believe.<br />I completely lost myself within this book. Emotions ran rampart as I found myself caught up in the moment where tears flowed freely and allowed me to interject myself wholly into Lelia's pysche for understanding. The compelling nature of this story is underlined when Lelia refuses to give up her aspirations of a better life despite having to witness and be party to the despair that controls her mother's life. With continued consternation, Lelia decides to run away from home and discover that life on the street is more than she bargained for. But like others who embrace an idea and turn it into a defined signature, she challenges and thrives to beat the odds that for some reason seem to elude her no matter what choice she makes for the good.<br />What I liked about the author's choice in her writing style was the way in which she captured your attention to want to keep the book in your hand. In doing this she allowed each chapter to end with a cliffhanger type effect to entice one to not abandon this tale. To add intrigue to this storyline was the introduction of different scenarios sending the heroine to such outposts as Zaire, where she meets the protagonistic Elijah Dune, a lothesome man with a mean steak of hate and a revengeful disposition. Ironically, this pair end up unwittingly fighting a battle side by side a dual enemy with pretentions of past and present dire straits that has the power to destroy them both. Albeit, Lelia holds on to show why the Dark Side Of Valor is not an oxymoron, but a way to a justified means. You will not be disappointed in reading this book!not abandon this tale. To add intrigue to this storyline was the introduction of different scenarios sending the heroine to such outposts as Zaire, where she meets the protagonistic Elijah Dune, a lothesome man with a mean steak of hate and a revengeful disposition. Ironically, this pair end up unwittingly fighting a battle side by side a dual enemy with pretentions of past and present dire straits that has the power to destroy them both. Albeit, Lelia holds on to show why the Dark Side Of Valor is not an oxymoron, but a way to a justified means. You will not be disappointed in reading this book!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R38HDGI6YLWLQ	1575669196	975549248	When Twilight Comes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Come morning, noon, or night you'll enjoy this one.	Any story depicting family angst, sibling rivalry, intersposed within an entertaining storyline would be conducise to an enjoyable read. When Twilight Comes by Gwynne Forster was one of several books that I've touted as better reads for the year 2002, and in giving this lofty accolade, a lot goes into how I determine books in this class...well-defined characters, a moving an inspired storyline that caters to a viable plot notwithstanding, and whether a book has the symetry in flowing well.<br />This book has all of it! When faced with a crisis that threatens to tear a well-to-do family apart, Ms Forster gives us a look into a situation that so closely mirrors happenings that would be realistic in life as we see it today -- that of a widowed matriarch on her dying bed having to name a successor to carry on the family legacy, and make sure that the business continue to thrive. In making this choice, Marge Hairston must decide between which of her three grown children she can trust to this task. The characters, Drogan, Cassie, and Sharon lend to the makeup that tackles issues of insecurity, jealousy, competitive mayhem, and behind-the-back conniving that adds to the disengagement of fragile family bonds.<br />...[plot spoiler]...<br />The counter affect of Cassie and Drogan giving opinionated views as to why they should've been the ones to be considered first defines the book's illustration of a family gone amok. Ms Forster wastes no time in making this such a poignant read as she gives the characterization a multi-dimentsional presence to weave a storyline that has depth and dynamics.<br />I liked the cadence of the vernacular of how she were able to make the scenes well worth you wanting to know how it would effect the other characters. In order to ascribe to all that I'm alluding to with this book, one would need to pay attention to the witty dialogue, and how the author paints a good colorful picture in developing both primary and secondary characters. This I surmise to her experience as a writer of countless romance narratives that would give her confidence to give it the flavor needed.<br />This debut into mainstream fiction will go a long way in readers having the confidence that Gwynne Forster will write with a continuity to give more of the writing style that they may be used to. For Forster fans, this offering is as always perscribed. For those that are reading this author for the first time, it would behoove you to read other novels under her belt to build a following and justify an encore! I urge you to read this book, and judge it for yourself.rmise to her experience as a writer of countless romance narratives that would give her confidence to give it the flavor needed.<br />This debut into mainstream fiction will go a long way in readers having the confidence that Gwynne Forster will write with a continuity to give more of the writing style that they may be used to. For Forster fans, this offering is as always perscribed. For those that are reading this author for the first time, it would behoove you to read other novels under her belt to build a following and justify an encore! I urge you to read this book, and judge it for yourself.	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R2WWSOMGTX1PWO	0609604899	88267901	American Skin: Pop Culture, Big Business, and the End of White America	Books	3	3	13	N	N	Black and White issues and other racial overtones	Will there ever be a time where the color of one's skin will not matter in the scheme of societal culture? Will the melting pot have enough room to stir together all that separates the races for harmonious coexistence?<br />The end of White America as we know it, and the beginning of truisms that the author explains in a rather stark and introspective way in his book, American Skin. Leon E. Wynter's writing style here is reminiscent of his memorable essays on race, business, and American culture (or disculture depending on how you look at it) that he's known for writing for such publications as The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, New York Times, and the New York Newsday.<br />The author will have you believe that the true American identity is being usurped by a new modicum for change...that white culture is declining in value, has no measure for continuity, and that which is on the rise is the sharing of consumer idioms and the blending of cultural tenets. As you read this book, one can't help but marvel at how Mr. Wynter came about to make analogies to support his thesis.<br />Take a look at the chapters and you will agree that the emphasis he places on amalgamation reflects diversity in his point of view. Getting to the gist of what the author is trying to convey is told through the eyes of the main character, Alex Verdi as he deals with the angst via the class and racial tensions that pervade our society. It reads like a coming-of-age saga fraught with all of the ingredients inherent of a young man struggling against society to achieve success and happiness amid race matters that he has to deal with.<br />In reading this book, one will definitely come away either impressed (depending on readers having a pragmatic sense of reasoning), or disappointed (only if readers expect something more that what hasn't been already hashed and rehashed as it pertain to racial mores). I advise one to read it with an open mind, and let the conscious dwell along with the subconscious for realism to dismiss institutional racism. Besides, the new order that the author conjures up here may not be the norm in this lifetime. Judge for yourself!e subconscious for realism to dismiss institutional racism. Besides, the new order that the author conjures up here may not be the norm in this lifetime. Judge for yourself!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R31317ZU5VD7TR	157566917X	533770852	True Lies	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Truth or Dare. This is an outstanding novel!	We see it all too many times where one settles for a situation or a stays in a relationship that has no future for the sake of a child. It's situations like this that paints a poor portrait in accepting less than sterling options that are not in our best interest, which would allow one to deceive good intent hoping for things to turn for the better. This indeed is the true essence of misguided trust and a good lie. The preamble here best describes author and storyteller extraordinaire, Margaret Johnson-Hodge (Some Sunday, Butterscotch Blues) back with yet another excellent read. This is Baby Mama Drama at its best, where a good storyline and an even better plot makes for an exciting book.<br />This is also the story of Dajah Moore and Rick Trimmons two people attracted to each other but with enough baggage to undermine whether being goal oriented (Rick) and disillusioned (Dajah) is enough to hang in there despite Rick's inability to shake an undesirable. The undesirable is live-in girlfriend Gina and her daughter Kanisha of whom Rick is the father. Without giving too much of the story away, Gina and Rick is on the outs but Gina knowing that the child she has with Rick is her trump card to stick and stay. Rick on the other hand, is trapped in a relationship where he feels duty to Kanisha is the better part of valor by devising a plan to keep his family intact but somehow not being able to ignore the siren Dajah's call.<br />This truly is a good compelling human-interest story that all of us can have feelings for. Whenever an author injects this type of character study to illustrate a point and tell a good story to boot, she/her is writing from a deeper perspective for realistic effect. It shows the impact of life altering decisions that has bearing on other people's world in a familial setting. When poor and/or selfish judgment is used, more often than not you make for a situation that hinders more than helps. When you began to believe the lies that are told to yourself to justify uneven means you dilute the solution and work from half-strengths. This is the dilemma that plagues all of the characters in this book, save for Kanisha...who unwittingly is a pawn. There are no clear winners when no stand is made for the betterment of a child in limbo.<br />I loved this book! And would recommend it to anyone who wants a real human-interest story that has layered characters so well drawn in how the author depicts each flaw and attribute to coincide with moving dialogue. I was mesmerized by how she made me understand each characters motivational bent and why they made the decisions they made. This is a highly recommended novel that will have you giving it to others to read!self to justify uneven means you dilute the solution and work from half-strengths. This is the dilemma that plagues all of the characters in this book, save for Kanisha...who unwittingly is a pawn. There are no clear winners when no stand is made for the betterment of a child in limbo.<br />I loved this book! And would recommend it to anyone who wants a real human-interest story that has layered characters so well drawn in how the author depicts each flaw and attribute to coincide with moving dialogue. I was mesmerized by how she made me understand each characters motivational bent and why they made the decisions they made. This is a highly recommended novel that will have you giving it to others to read!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R1LO86W9UUROL	0385501617	737360224	P. G. County	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Connie does it again...Sistah-Girl Drama at its best!	Best-selling author Connie Briscoe (Sisters and Lovers, Big Girls Don't Cry, The Long Way Home) is back on the scene after a lengthy hiatus. We find her telling the tale of life in an affluent suburban community of five women who distinctly show differences for who they are, what class of society they belong, and how much lust, love, and dirty secrets they manage to whip up. The word drama takes on a new meaning once Barbara, Jolene, Candice, Pearl, and Lee get through their complex machinations.<br />Barbara is a prima donna recovering from alcoholism dealing with a rich philandering husband; Jolene is slick and conniving, intent on stealing Bradford (Barbara's husband) and moving up the social strata. Adding to her situation is Patrick her husband who has decided that two can play that game. He has his eyes on Pearl, who is Barbara's hairdresser and the mother of Kenyatta. Kenyatta is in love with a white girl by the name of Ashley who is the daughter of Candice. Candice on her part, is white and outspoken, but her true colors show when she tries to deal a problem too close for comfort. Last but certainly not least, is Lee an adolescent running away from life, and the uncanny ability to find trouble in the wrong places.<br />Having read any of Ms Briscoe's previous novels would make you feel at home with a style reminiscent of Terry McMillan's penchant for weaving intricate plots with subplots that keep the characters jumping. But what happens when there's all action but no meaningful filler to flesh the story? Most of the sista girl novels of this type seem to be predictable and a sameness that hollers for a different beat, which makes you feel that you've been there and done that.<br />For pure entertainment though, and if you're really a Briscoe fan, you'd want to read this book to the end, for it doesn't disappoint in making it like the rest of them cut from the same mold. With the diverse characters, and the author's skill at making five women know that they are truly different flavors, may prove to be the type of fluff par for this course. While reading the book I was waiting for any degree of separation to give it the final push over the hump to justify the hype. If the ending was more than enough to make up for all of the bickering and backstabbing in lieu of adequate pacing, perhaps we'd be privy to a much better story indicative of what I know she can write. Out of five stars, I give it 3 .y are truly different flavors, may prove to be the type of fluff par for this course. While reading the book I was waiting for any degree of separation to give it the final push over the hump to justify the hype. If the ending was more than enough to make up for all of the bickering and backstabbing in lieu of adequate pacing, perhaps we'd be privy to a much better story indicative of what I know she can write. Out of five stars, I give it 3 .	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R2VA64FWSO1M8I	0971583811	370424332	The Parcel Express Murders	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Cleverly Woven Murder Mystery	Bernadette Y. Connor's The Parcel Express Murders is cleverly woven into a context where romance, mystery, and intrigue is allowed to play under the backdrop of murder. The author is showing in this sophomoric effort her penchant for writing genre-crossing thrillers where the female is a heroine and the masculine are supporting catalysts to tell a good story without compromising nothing in between.<br />This is a story about Samoa Tate a psychiatrist who helps patients come to grips with their maladies, but within her own framework there's the need to cope with an absentee father that has a bearing on her personal life. Enter the Dynamic Duo, Detectives Hall Hawkins and Edward Clark assigned the task of solving a double murder case, and a subsequent string of unsolved murders. An interesting sidelight is the fact that Samoa and Detective Clark as love interests are both involved unknowingly in finding the killers, which bodes well in the author introducing subplots that fit well into the result of marrying romance with the mystique of 'who done it', how, and why.<br />This book could as well been depicted as a romance novel with its steamy love scenes and the charm and wit that both characters, Somoa and Eddie exhibit. So much so, that the secondary characters are truly an adjunct to how the main entities play into interludes that make you wonder whether the mystery should center around the murders, or perhaps what's the mystery behind why Samoa is reluctant to engage Eddie in a more willing fashion as a love interest.<br />As I read this novel, I couldn't help but to compare it with other deep-seated mysteries I've read in allowing me to truly define them as such. To the author's credit though, she told a good story..., but knowing how I love to unravel and be part of suspenseful intrigue, I was hoping for more twists and turns, and unexpected drama to unfold with the details that were presented here. If the plot would've included the aforementioned it conceivably would have garnered a higher rating from me.<br />Nevertheless, this indeed is a good read and doesn't suffer at the expense of the prior statement by me. It indeed should pique your interest in this author, and demand more of same. I enjoyed this yarn albeit with wishful yearnings, and would hope that you'd hink of this author as being of mind to write in a challenged mode to bring depth to this genre. There's certainly the potential to do so based on what I've read here, and hope that you read it for yourself!ly would have garnered a higher rating from me. <br />Nevertheless, this indeed is a good read and doesn't suffer at the expense of the prior statement by me. It indeed should pique your interest in this author, and demand more of same. I enjoyed this yarn albeit with wishful yearnings, and would hope that you'd hink of this author as being of mind to write in a challenged mode to bring depth to this genre. There's certainly the potential to do so based on what I've read here, and hope that you read it for yourself!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R3094KK2N2DBMX	0312281919	161899185	An Ordinary Woman: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Typical Donna Hill fare..with a little more flair!	It's rapidly becoming commonplace not to include any book written by Donna Hill as `ordinary', especially after having penned 17 novels with a reputation fastly being attributed to her ability to craft page turning storylines. Her latest, An Ordinary Woman adds to this legacy and is destined to be compared favorably with Rhythms, her last. How do two women, the best of friends...sharing common bonds and sacred secrets allow division among the ranks seemingly beyond repair? I've read several of Donna's books and this is one of her best (not that Rhythms was any slouch).<br />This is a tale of Ash Woods and Lisa Holden, childhood friends and surrogate sisters, and. Ross Davis who marries Lisa. Inseparable? Friends for life? The intent was good, but what brought the tension to a head and caused havoc were two incidents that proved to be caustic was Lisa's marriage and Asha's disastrous confrontation with her mother. In order to get the gist and ramification of these two occurrences consider that the colors Ms Hill uses to illustrate the characters truly makes a believable and compelling tale come to life. The canvas used in painting this picture is one where we're allowed to examine with baited breath all the cracks in the facades of each character, and be put in position to ask questions on how can one sleep with her best friends' husband. The issues that the three face add tone, tenor, and temerity to a situation rife with betrayal and commitment gone awry.<br />One of the features that make this novel a good read is the style in which it was written, using alternative voices of the main characters to tell their side of the story. It starts with Asha taking the first person narrative portrayal, Lisa following, and Ross is painted both as a supporting fixture and as the genesis for Asha's fidelity issues. It doesn't hurt that imagery and detail gives this story new twists trying to reasonable doubt for readers to determine the what and why of it. Each of the characters has reasons for the story to articulate with believable voices extolling candor, realism, and a genuine need to go to the extent for circumstance to take precedence.<br />Usually in weaving intrigue to illustrate plot and supporting subplot, it the author loses timing which causes the story to bog down in unnecessary dialogue...not to mention the time that is paramount for the story to gel. I found a little of this, but it did dilute the author's knack for a quick recovery for the surprise ending. Donna Hill does it again! A superbly written novel where each character gives the reader reason to adamantly believe that lesson were learned and that faces can peer in the mirror in recognizing faults and move on. With this in mind, the ordinary woman who made a mistake know now can live through the hurt and healing for results extraordinary!ers has reasons for the story to articulate with believable voices extolling candor, realism, and a genuine need to go to the extent for circumstance to take precedence.<br />Usually in weaving intrigue to illustrate plot and supporting subplot, it the author loses timing which causes the story to bog down in unnecessary dialogue...not to mention the time that is paramount for the story to gel. I found a little of this, but it did dilute the author's knack for a quick recovery for the surprise ending. Donna Hill does it again! A superbly written novel where each character gives the reader reason to adamantly believe that lesson were learned and that faces can peer in the mirror in recognizing faults and move on. With this in mind, the ordinary woman who made a mistake know now can live through the hurt and healing for results extraordinary!	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R2U64RSCVDM75V	0375758097	795325062	Meant to Be: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Spiritual Journey Of Fulfillment	One must be careful when allowing the word 'spiritual' to define Christian themes when the word is used to label and connotate. Content and context make all the difference in the world, which makes all the reason why going deeper to dispel discourse would be appropriate here. Rita Coburn Whack has penned a book written in such a different style that, if read subjectively, you'd come to appreciate the depth and breadth of an inspiring message, the witticism of a meaningful storyline, and a true spirit of what the author intended. This book will get your attention and keep you riveted to it in digesting interpretive understanding from multiple voices speaking as one. Meant To Be is the name of the book, an ostensibly auspicious debut novel written in an omniscient pattern which to me, adds to its enhancement. So much unlike that of which is being written of late, sans the predictable dichotomy in supposedly religious themes apropos in spiritual writing.<br />Let me set the stage for the drama: Patience Jan Campbell is the name of our protagonist who, as you read the first chapter of the book is deemed quite different from most kids her age. One of my cherished and definitive pieces of the book comes when Jan is called upon to read and interpret her favorite scripture for the church congregation. After reading it, she opines: &quot;I think this scripture means that children know every shut eye ain't sleep and every head bowed ain't praying, so grown-ups ain't fooling us or God...So nobody should hold a child back from God just 'cause they may be having trouble finding Him.&quot; To say the least, she' was outspoken, observant, and early on was given the opportunity to be heard with the aforementioned passage being uttered much to the chagrin of the 'grown-ups'. The sun shone brightly on Jan until an unfortunate tragedy caused her to lose her vivacity, and most importantly her 'voice'. The omniscience found in this story is told through the eyes of her grandmother Hannah, in recurring dreams over the narration of Jan's life through college, her work as a radio disc jockey, and her somewhat uneven trysts with lovers Don and Phillip.<br />Ms Whack gives us a semi-autobiographical translation as we follow the main characters' journey into womanhood, finding herself among the many trials and tribulations, and regaining confidence for viability. The supporting characters in the book are strong, especially the previously mentioned Hannah; an aunt whom she calls Mama Ada acting as a mentor/surrogate mother type; and Sarah, a longtime friend who pleads and cajoles Jan to change the folly of her ways. The roles at play here allow the author a chance to make sincere attempts to meld semblages of her experiences, historical reference, and narrative interpretation to make this story work. In fact, it is this type of narration that was chosen that possibly proved to be troublesome to those that were not paying attention, or who abandoned the book altogether for lack of what the author was trying to convey. I give in to the fact that the narrative at times tended to be verbose and plodding in spots, but overall based on the intangibles it didn't take anything away from the stylistic rendering to see how Jan was able to learn acceptance, forgiveness, and a sense of self.<br />Tone, color, and perspective gave this book more spunk because of the style used to illustrate dramatic effect. The story is compelling. The writing expressive. Albeit and unashamelessly, I was looking for less a predictable ending in lieu of a rather safe coda given us, but the medium was well worth sticking with the clear message the author gave. I'm sure there are readers out there that have this book in their TBR (To Be Read) stack, or those that through hearsay, have found this to be a difficult read....but throw all notions aside using that type of enuendo and READ this for your own interpretive thought. This is a beautifully written and poignant piece of writing froman author who has only scratched the surface. I look forward to more from the pen of Rita Coburn Whack.an author who has only scratched the surface. I look forward to more from the pen of Rita Coburn Whack.	2002-12-17
US	42925694	R38XJ1X69W6TXS	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Big Awesome Book...Full of intrigue and mayhem!	The Emperor Of Ocean Park  ......................................... Stephen L. Carter<br /><br />  Despite being labeled in some online book club circles as being a BAB (big awesome? book), The Emperor Of Ocean Park carries with its heft (672 pages) a mix of character and action worthy of song and salutation, especially among the likes of Hollywood and the publishing world.  So much so, that Knopf outbid eleven other publishers with a four million two book deal, and moviemakers are salivating over film rights!  Adding to the hoopla is Knopf's decision to launch a 500,00 first printing.  This type of deal is reserved usually for authors well established with proven track records in garnering sales.<br /><br />Stephen L. Carter, no stranger to serious literature is also the author of such academic works as Reflections Of An Affirmative Action Baby, The Culture of Disbelief, and The Confirmation Mess, et al, steps outside of well stated non fiction comfort in making an astonishing mature transition to mainstream fiction.  Like most thrillers, the storyline, plots, and subplots bear witness to multi-layers of intrigue and mayhem.  This book and its theme bodes well for this genre:  the hold the past exerts over the present, and for the most part the hold a father has over his son.  With that in mind, two mysteries lie within the searing heart of Mr. Carter's work here.  One puzzle bears the markings of the conventional murder/mystery.  Was a former federal judge murdered, or did he die naturally?  The other enigma is deeper and far more provoking - what is the role of the black upper-middle class in a country that is overwhelmingly ruled by members of \\"the paler nation.\\" as the protagonist of the book calls them?<br />  When I read the first six chapters I had mixed emotions whether this book would live up to the liner notes, but as I progressed I changed my mind to that of new found respect that The Emperor of Ocean Park could even broach such a topical theme that permeates the Black social strata.  And it is one of the many elements that set this novel apart from most of the cookie-cutter, brotherman/sistergirl books being churned out in regularity in African-American literature.  In doing so, Carter has shed an unblinking eye on an area of race and culture conspicuously absent in popular fiction.  We're dealing with subjects within that harkens to compelling sociological, psychological and political machinations that turns out to be a real page turner.  It helps tremendously when nearly every chapter ends with you yearning to know what will happen next.<br /><br />In a nutshell, The Emperor, Judge Oliver Garland a conservative federal judge is denied a Supreme Court seat when it was revealed during his confirmation hearings that he associated with an organized crime figure has suddenly died.  This book is involved concerning multi-faceted plots, with a variety of subjects that are intertwined for effect: the intricacies of family relationships; the backstabbing and bullying that dominate academic power politics, liberal and conservative attitudes toward race; the silent acquiescence of both parents when a marriage goes awry; the healing strength of honest prayer in everyday matters; and the impotent rage of a man who on the surface has everything but still doesn't quite feel as if he belongs.  The book does, however have a few flaws, but in my opinion doesn't detract from the authors work at all.  For one, too much emphasis was placed on the genealogy of the Garland family which far outweighed interest in the enforced cat and mouse suspense games.  Repeated references to \\"seeing red\\" grow tiresome, too many chess-related terms, and the soppy ending left more to be desired.  In summing up this effort, this may prove to be a complicated and hard read for some, but it very well may be the best summer read of the year.  If for no other reason than to disprove the notion to my book buddies that any perceived BAB just might be whatis needed to endure the dog days of summer, I'll gladly recommend it!  Read this one and dare to be different.ded to endure the dog days of summer, I'll gladly recommend it!  Read this one and dare to be different.	2002-07-25
US	42925694	R2RJPGFD4B22F4	1573222127	953913428	Miracle at St. Anna	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An ambitious war story full of emotion...For McBride fans!	Journalist James McBride, author of the best-selling memoir The Color Of Water paints a picture using a true historic incident as a backdrop to illustrate something out of the ordinary in his latest offering, Miracle At St. Anna.  The author weaves a poignant story where a German SS unit massacred more than five hundred civilians.  There were five or six survivors, including a small child, closely associated to the character Sam Train in the story.<br /><br />From this scenario, the 'miracle' takes place as Train encounters a marble head that the Germans shot off a statue during a ferocious firefight.  Train, looking for anything to salvage as a good luck piece, retrieves it believing that the head of the statue makes him invisible to the German front.  In being rescued, the boy regards the giant Train in awe as his personal savior giving the story color and feeling.  I felt that the heart of this story is relived through the eyes of the author as he uses timely vignettes interacting different aspects of each character's interpretation of whether there's a true need to fight.  The fact that the author attempted to lace the main story with yet another point of contention says more for his courage and willingness to illustrate an analogy distinctive to a segment of military lore.  History's Buffalo Soldiers whose hey day after the Civil War were known for their tenacious heroics and bravery, but more often than not was ignored by the U.S. Army for what they stood for, adds intrigue to give the story a special bent.  Coming home after the war there were no parades, no slaps on the back, and certainly no equal status afforded them in putting their lives on the line.  The parallels to these famous figures to the characters that McBride offers here raises questions, thus allowing for a unique dilemma:  How do you fight for freedom across the water when there's no freedom at home?  In tackling this subject, the author veers from the original focus causing a shift in storyline stability.  The aforementioned is such a larger concern that one would wonder whether it would be served better as the subject of another book!  However, value warrants itself above mediocrity with superb character makeup.  The characters: Train, a slow dim-witted man from North Carolina; Bishop, a self-claimed egocentric minister; Hector, the Puerto Rican radio man; and Lt. Aubrey Stamps, the man who is given the unenviable task of molding this unit into a cohesive set of men to do the job assigned.  I felt that the author did a wonderful job of assigning flavor to the story and making all of them congruous to the roles they play.  In doing so he's able to engage the differences among them.<br />  Bigger issues are discussed in the book, but McBride seems to struggle at times reflecting on them in lieu of dealing with the moral questions that are implied throughout the book.  As such, it becomes a matter of conjecture whether those questions are answered with clarity.  Readers may find the last half of it an anomalous twisting of a good plot, and may find it disappointing.  Switching to mainstream fiction efforts like this after writing serious literature may give the effect and propensity to scrutinize an author's work more closely than needed.  Perhaps after a few more quality fiction titles under his belt, he'll be judged appropriately for a successful transition and great storytelling to boot.  This could be the start that may give him a great start.  This is truly for McBride fans!  Buy this book where books are sold.ine stability.  The aforementioned is such a larger concern that one would wonder whether it would be served better as the subject of another book!  However, value warrants itself above mediocrity with superb character makeup.  The characters: Train, a slow dim-witted man from North Carolina; Bishop, a self-claimed egocentric minister; Hector, the Puerto Rican radio man; and Lt. Aubrey Stamps, the man who is given the unenviable task of molding this unit into a cohesive set of men to do the job assigned.  I felt that the author did a wonderful job of assigning flavor to the story and making all of them congruous to the roles they play.  In doing so he's able to engage the differences among them.<BR>   Bigger issues are discussed in the book, but McBride seems to struggle at times reflecting on them in lieu of dealing with the moral questions that are implied throughout the book.  As such, it becomes a matter of conjecture whether those questions are answered with clarity.  Readers may find the last half of it an anomalous twisting of a good plot, and may find it disappointing.  Switching to mainstream fiction efforts like this after writing serious literature may give the effect and propensity to scrutinize an author's work more closely than needed.  Perhaps after a few more quality fiction titles under his belt, he'll be judged appropriately for a successful transition and great storytelling to boot.  This could be the start that may give him a great start.  This is truly for McBride fans!  Buy this book where books are sold.	2002-07-25
US	42925694	R2ZX90KDK85X6V	0312283318	368940071	Leaving: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Richard Dry has just arrived!	Richard Dry's debut novel, Leaving takes us three generations deep touching history harkening back to the era of civil rights and wrenching wrongs. This is about a family in turmoil and their quest to make in against harrowing odds, and their story being told in a poignant and persuasive way by this author. The matriach and central figure of this tale is Ruby Washington, who struggles to keep her family intact against insurmountable odds battling the signs of the times. The year is 1959, the era of sharechopping just a stone's throw from yesteryear, but close enough for Ruby to remember how hard it was for her parents. Unable to cope with the vile and villanous world she lives in, she decides to leave her native South Carolina for foreign territory, taking with her Easton, her thirteen-year old half brother. To complicate the issue, she's pregnant, newly widowed, and weary from the violence that forced her to flee in the first place.<br />What amazes me about this story, and others like it is how the legacy of the Black female continue to be the anchor of strength, and how writers uphold this truth. In this case, Mr. Dry give creedance to the importance of strong familial ties and what it takes to persevere. But perseverance in the face of fate usually renders one to uncontrolable circumstances, and Ruby succumbs to it during the turbulance of 1960s Oakland. Civil rights activism, the Black Panther Party, and drugs only add fuel to fires raging too prevalently to eradicate without reasonable cause. Through the years Ruby adheres to the 'rob Peter, pay Paul syndrome to make ends meet amid angst hoping for better days. Subsequently, Ruby gives birth to daughter Lida who, as time progresses, has a family of her own often repeating the problems she experienced with her mother. To compound the aforementioned, Lida struggles with a drug problem and the burden of a hurtful family secret. It doesn't get any better as Lida's sons must strive to make ways for themselves, criss-crossing the nation searching for acceptance and legitimacy.<br /> The tone and tenor for this family throughout this saga gives the reader reason not to abandon it, despite the hefty 452 pages. As such, the book starts out slow and a little uneven, but gains balance in the later chapters. Books of this magnitude where there's vestiges of historic harangue amid what it took to keep families intact tend to make for good storylines as long as the characters support a moving plot. Richard Dry, in my opinion delivers. He gives us not nly a good story, but a sense of realism that forces you to wonder could things have been different otherwise. When you think along those lines you know that you've read a good book. Read this one for yourself and draw your own conclusions!s-crossing the nation searching for acceptance and legitimacy.<br /> The tone and tenor for this family throughout this saga gives the reader reason not to abandon it, despite the hefty 452 pages. As such, the book starts out slow and a little uneven, but gains balance in the later chapters. Books of this magnitude where there's vestiges of historic harangue amid what it took to keep families intact tend to make for good storylines as long as the characters support a moving plot. Richard Dry, in my opinion delivers. He gives us not nly a good story, but a sense of realism that forces you to wonder could things have been different otherwise. When you think along those lines you know that you've read a good book. Read this one for yourself and draw your own conclusions!	2002-07-25
US	42925694	R3KQZ3HX93R05D	157322216X	810443961	The Pact	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A promise kept and dreams fulfilled..3 the easy way!	The Pact  .................................... .  Drs. Sampson Davis, George Jenkins, and<br />  Rameck Hunt, with Lisa Frazier Page<br /><br />  In the last several years I've read numerous and various books on remedies for the black community, the black male and what should be done for a greater understanding. Under the same auspices there have been race related analogies instilling in us the need to be accountable for meaningful intent to change our lives, related works reminding us that the battle is not over as of yet, and what it would take for equal parity as the struggle continue to be heard and recognized.  I recently read a book that brought tears to my eyes and allowed me to have hope and congratulate three young men who dared to make a change in realizing a dream come true.  All my life I've been cautioned about the perils of peer pressure, and the folly of placing too much emphasis on misguided friendship.  In isolated cases there may have been situations where caution has been tossed to the wind and worst fears have been realized because one probably wanted to live the stereotypical notions given by others not of the same culture.<br /><br />But rarely do we witness male bonding used to an extent where three entities converge for the betterment of a greater whole.  The Pact, told from hearts and minds of three boys out to succeed against a backdrop where others before them failed miserably, gives hope that our families and communities can reap what is sowed.  George Jenkins, Sampson Davis, and Rameck Hunt has a story to tell, and what a story!  All three grew up in an impoverished environment of broken dreams and unfulfilled promises.  The old adage of there being strength in numbers prove to be an advantage as the three of them made a promise to each other:  That they would stick together no matter what, go to college and become doctors.  It wasn't until later that the notion to take it further came to fruition...and that is to empower the community with their own non-profit foundation.  Now over 14 years later, after overcoming personal setbacks and other obstacles, they proudly bear the merit of having 'Doctor' in front of their names.  This is the story of inspiration and vision where compassion has a chance to touch the inner city to dispel angst and glorify empowerment.<br /><br />  The book is narrated alternatively with each giving analogies to specific points of contention as they depict their lives leading up to the decisions made.  It all started when Jenkins learned about a special medical program for minority students.  After a trying time of convincing his two friends to comply, they vowed to do what it would take to help get the others through, but not before Davis and Hunt have had their various run ins with the law.  The book is well written in an easy flow manner in which it intrduces each one's autobiographical beginnings culminating with specific advice and personal renderings on such topics as peer pressure, giving back, and perseverance.  Ironically, all of the above are the main ingredients that give this offering the emphasis the authors need to illustrate the value of making goals, sticking to them, and paving the way for others.  But a lot of credit must be given to Lisa Frazier Page for her part in keeping these young men focused and on the same page.<br /><br />The format used and how they pulled it together, is a testimony to the finished product.  I couldn't help but to look at it as a triad of principles commencing with finding self first, using the newfound lease on life to strengthen family, and ultimately bringing back to the community a model of perfection.  This is a constant theme throughout, along with giving you the reason to believe in the power of friendship...a power greater than any one of them could have individually. Listen to the culminating point that is made in accessing their work:  \\"Working together on this project, going over our years together we feel great pride.  After writing this book, we see more clearly than ever that we needed one another to achieve our dreams.  We've come a long way from the streets of Newark in some ways, but not far at all in others.  Our hearts are still with the families and friends who didn't have the opportunities, the friendships, or maybe even the crazy dreams that were somehow given to us - those who are still struggling everyday just to survive.  They are the reason we wrote this book\\"<br /><br /> This is a MUST read, a book expressive in showing that there's a way to rise above meager means as long as there's a purpose and the wherewithal to succeed.  This is also the story about the potential in all of us to empower and provide those young black teenagers and young adults out there that there's a method to the madness if they position themselves to really want it.  Fathers may want to buy this book for their sons, or mothers will read it as yet another way to reach a wayward son, but if you're of the mindset that whoever reads it for the good that it espouses then I'd expect you to pass it on!oing over our years together we feel great pride.  After writing this book, we see more clearly than ever that we needed one another to achieve our dreams.  We've come a long way from the streets of Newark in some ways, but not far at all in others.  Our hearts are still with the families and friends who didn't have the opportunities, the friendships, or maybe even the crazy dreams that were somehow given to us - those who are still struggling everyday just to survive.  They are the reason we wrote this book\\"     This is a MUST read, a book expressive in showing that there's a way to rise above meager means as long as there's a purpose and the wherewithal to succeed.  This is also the story about the potential in all of us to empower and provide those young black teenagers and young adults out there that there's a method to the madness if they position themselves to really want it.  Fathers may want to buy this book for their sons, or mothers will read it as yet another way to reach a wayward son, but if you're of the mindset that whoever reads it for the good that it espouses then I'd expect you to pass it on!	2002-07-25
US	42925694	R3CG9DTYULFBV1	0345444957	605284938	Growing Up X	Books	4	4	7	N	N	An Xcellent view from where she sat!	Growing Up X  ............................................................ Ilyasah Shabazz<br /><br />  Ilyasah Shabazz's life and legacy of her famous father Malcolm X, and the untimely death of her mother, Betty has been well documented in the media and beyond.  Embarking on her first book tour great pains has been initiated and exerted to serve notice that the book, Growing Up X is a personal memoir, and not about Malcolm or her mother.  The book rather, is an easy read, which flows with reflections on the burdens and confusing circumstances that often befall the children of famous people.  Usually a normal life is all that's wanted, and in this case the author tries to give credence to such an upbringing.  Fittingly to the aforementioned, she directs the book toward the exemplary job her mother adhered to in raising six daughters after being ostracized by a community (Mt. Vernon, NY) devoid of compassion and ignorant of facts.  The effect of this and other maladies associated with being in the shadow of history's long arm brings this memoir close to the author's heart.  Throughout, she shares her personal belief how her father was misunderstood in America, and that this misunderstanding made it difficult to lessen preconceived ill seated notions about the Nation Of Islam, its intent, and the impact it had on Malcolm's philosophical profile.<br />  In giving her personal thoughts one would want to get the feeling that she felt readily felt the anguish associated with betrayal at the hands of those so close to him. and knew first hand the pain he must have felt.  In doing so, she evidenced these analogies by describing his driving commitment and his tremendous need to be a beacon for a better life for his people.  Inasmuch as she tries to downplay the larger than life presence of his persona, she valiantly gets a passing mark for realizing that her father's bailiwick was inescapable.  The fact that the author gave us her own voice and vision dealing with growing pains says a lot here.  And this is a view seldom seen in the windows of such a celebrated family.<br /><br />What additional insights are allowed those on the outside looking in to be able to see a different perspective?  To answer this question, Ilyasah Shabazz draws upon the one thing that make this book not only an enjoyable read, but one that exude compassion and respect growing up in a maternal-dominated household where the teachings of an icon wasn't forgotten.  To help this along, the warmth and reminiscences of friends, colleagues, and acquaintances give weight to their personal involvement and experiences in supporting them through the months following her father's death.  Because who Malcolm and Betty were, this book has all the rudiments of an unfinished story, which begs to be told comprehensively in a way for the picture to offer insights never told before...but also in ways to report the familial relationship between her parents.  Perhaps this would be more fact than fiction, as the author has intimated working on such an offering.  Not to take anything from the author, the real legacy that she and other members of the family has to continue upholding is sustaining family values, persevering beyond media scrutiny, and visualizing a unified purpose.  Listening to Ilyasah's bent on it, she's not far from my assessment.<br /><br />She states:  \\"My mission now is to preserve the legacy of my parents, and to help nurture my nephews, nieces, and my sisters to be loving as possible as we can to continue our parents' work\\".  For those who'd want to measure the psychological and societal ramifications of their burdens, read this book and feel the awe as I did seeing things from the author's perspective growing up indeed, Xcellent!ins says a lot here.  And this is a view seldom seen in the windows of such a celebrated family.  <BR> <BR>What additional insights are allowed those on the outside looking in to be able to see a different perspective?  To answer this question, Ilyasah Shabazz draws upon the one thing that make this book not only an enjoyable read, but one that exude compassion and respect growing up in a maternal-dominated household where the teachings of an icon wasn't forgotten.  To help this along, the warmth and reminiscences of friends, colleagues, and acquaintances give weight to their personal involvement and experiences in supporting them through the months following her father's death.  Because who Malcolm and Betty were, this book has all the rudiments of an unfinished story, which begs to be told comprehensively in a way for the picture to offer insights never told before...but also in ways to report the familial relationship between her parents.  Perhaps this would be more fact than fiction, as the author has intimated working on such an offering.  Not to take anything from the author, the real legacy that she and other members of the family has to continue upholding is sustaining family values, persevering beyond media scrutiny, and visualizing a unified purpose.  Listening to Ilyasah's bent on it, she's not far from my assessment.  <BR> <BR>She states:  \\"My mission now is to preserve the legacy of my parents, and to help nurture my nephews, nieces, and my sisters to be loving as possible as we can to continue our parents' work\\".   For those who'd want to measure the psychological and societal ramifications of their burdens, read this book and feel the awe as I did seeing things from the author's perspective growing up indeed, Xcellent!	2002-07-25
US	42925694	R1PK6A0MFY47T0	0446526363	655334697	Yet a Stranger: Why Black Americans Still Don't Feel at Home	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Home Alone?  Yet another  look of being Black in America!	When discussing race relations in America the Black community often asks, \\"Have things really gotten any better?  Are there any reasons left to believe that change will elicit a way for equal parity?\\"  Lest we forget, black Americans should share and be given equal billing for contributions directly and indirectly resulting in the building of this great nation of ours.  This should be realized despite, and because of Thomas Jefferson's contradiction that \\"it was self-evident truth that all men were created equal, that they were endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these were life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness\\".  Over three hundred years later race in America still flourishes within blatant circumstantial inequities that the institution of racism has permeated.  No one knows this better than the author Deborah Mathis, who offers an insight to a personal view of the problems that have existed, continue to do so today, and an effort for reclamation in her book, Yet A Stranger: Why Black Americans Still Don't Feel At Home.  Though the title is a mouthful, there's still issues that need to be confronted head on so that progress will be justified for what need to be done.  Ms Mathis is a national syndicated columnist and former White House correspondent for The Gannett News Service with yet another offering that will join other analogies and narratives that have delved and beat this subject to death with no solutions or answers that would allow home to be more hospitable. Books of this magnitude where extensive research, in-depth interviews, and gauging the real life experiences of those that have been at the forefront of change, rarely is the catalyst to bring about the balancing of the scales.  Rather, they tend to form patterns where in the company of other books, apathy sets in with status quo doing more harm than good.<br />To Ms Mathis' credit though, her efforts to illustrate her points for the most part are adequate, but a few flaws in my opinion, made the book predictable based on some of the incidents researched.  Also, the last chapter pales in comparison to the rest of the book in that no explanatory effort was made for solutions beyond what has already been reported.  Nevertheless, it does give on a greater part of the whole, the idea that the author spent quality time to give her version of why there's no room in the house to feel at home.  It forces you to understand why the alienation of black America is progressive, affecting each generation through policy, custom, and if nothing else, a perception that inferiority is the norm.  The chapters give an expose of various multifarious conditions and maladies known exclusive to African-Americans.  It's clear from the onset that the author focuses on the lively controversies leading up to problematic issues, and the aftermath for determining interpretive analysis.  She reports the reason(s) why:<br /><br />  The acquittal of four white police officers of beating  Rodney King was expected<br />  The O.J. Simpson murder trial widened the gulf between whites and blacks...and why<br />  Blacks felt an affinity for him to win<br />  Integration was the worst thing for blacks<br />  Affirmative Action is still needed, and why white folk deplore it<br />She also touches on the Ebonics debate, Multiculturalism, school vouchers, racism in the justice system, and quite a bit of emphasis on other historical vestiges that brought attention to the confrontation of prejudice and racial injustices.  What would make this book stand out would be viable dialogue from interested persons within our societal makeup that would want to continue to keep these issues hot, and for this country to acknowledge a need to change and be able to use it for meaningful intent.<br />  If when reading this book you misunderstand the underestimation of history's long term effects, you may in turn miss the point of the author's reason for asking the question why blacks are on the outside still looking in.  In reading an and rating this book, I couldn't help hoping that at the end of each chapter the author would render solutions to each plight she illustrated.  This glaring omission is why others would want to feel a sense of loss, even though at the end she attempts to give weak, but well-meaning ways to end the state of discontinuity which have already been explored.  Readers interested in race issues will enjoy this book, but for those that demand more than just rhetorical chatter would opt for more.  This book is available at local books stores.  Read it, and judge for yourself whether black Americans can solve the enigma of not being welcome at home!uthor's reason for asking the question why blacks are on the outside still looking in.  In reading an and rating this book, I couldn't help hoping that at the end of each chapter the author would render solutions to each plight she illustrated.  This glaring omission is why others would want to feel a sense of loss, even though at the end she attempts to give weak, but well-meaning ways to end the state of discontinuity which have already been explored.  Readers interested in race issues will enjoy this book, but for those that demand more than just rhetorical chatter would opt for more.  This book is available at local books stores.  Read it, and judge for yourself whether black Americans can solve the enigma of not being welcome at home!	2002-06-30
US	42925694	R28DNDLCBHNB1	0316328499	709545163	Can't Be Satisfied: The Life and Times of Muddy Waters	Books	3	3	28	N	N	The colorful lifestory of a legendary Bluesman	The Mississippi River Delta and it's diasporal<br />links, form Muscle Shoals to the music of my mind, has<br />argurbly been considered the starting point for the<br />Blues.  As such, black American music from Jazz,<br />Rhythm &amp; Blues, or Popular renderings, and from the<br />subtle undercurrents of Rock, all owe quite a bit to<br />the esthetics and influence of Muddy Waters.  Now<br />comes veteran Musicologist Robert Gordon to give<br />insight and add flavor to the argument that's being<br />debated from Stovall, Mississippi (Waters'<br />birthplace), to the south side of Chicago (where most<br />of his greatest claim to fame is documented),<br />concerning who is really the progenitor of this<br />lifestyle.  Mr. Roberts makes good on his claim by<br />producing a well documented case by not only<br />showcasing this former sharecropper and legendary<br />bluesman, but giving equal billing to the many sidemen<br />and adjunct circumstances that feed into the legend.<br />Fans inquisitive about historical content concerning<br />how the blues originated, and the progressive life of<br />Muddy Waters won't be disappointed.  Will others have<br />the patience and perseverance to whether the 379 pages<br />in this biographical masterpiece?<br />  I've even asked questions about comparisons to<br />other music mediums myself.  How can such music rooted<br />in impoverished environments, once denigrated and<br />dismissed by white society become big business ripe<br />for exploitation?  Musicians, painters, and artists<br />from all walks of life cite how the blues have<br />influenced them...and without reproach, giving Muddy<br />Waters credit.  To get the gist and understand why<br />this music was, and is so important to many, I<br />ensconsed myself in a listening room with several<br />vintage and quasi-current Muddy Water's compilations.<br />I wanted to experience and somehow relive the harrow,<br />harangue, and humbleness of hurt as it's delivered by<br />this man and his engaging entourage.  This book, along<br />with the aforementioned eased any doubts I may have<br />had, but more importantly, it justified the author's<br />laborious narrative juxtaposed with extensive<br />footnotes offering a plethora of interesting facts and<br />fascinating stories about the augmented blues scene.<br />  Nonetheless, the portrait of this man is framed<br />indelibly as an icon, capturing the haunting hubris of<br />the music and revealing a culture and subculture that<br />not only capitulated Muddy to stardom...but gave<br />credence to why the blues is so rich and colorful.<br />For no other reason than to give credit where it's<br />due, reading this book will do nothing to dispell<br />notions that within the African American music lore,<br />we do have someone who have said that &quot;there's a lot<br />of feel good about felling bad&quot;.  The waters are NOT<br />muddled when words are spoken so eloquently by the man<br />that started it all!  Buy this book where books are<br />sold.the aforementioned eased any doubts I may have<BR>had, but more importantly, it justified the author's<BR>laborious narrative juxtaposed with extensive<BR>footnotes offering a plethora of interesting facts and<BR>fascinating stories about the augmented blues scene.<BR>   Nonetheless, the portrait of this man is framed<BR>indelibly as an icon, capturing the haunting hubris of<BR>the music and revealing a culture and subculture that<BR>not only capitulated Muddy to stardom...but gave<BR>credence to why the blues is so rich and colorful. <BR>For no other reason than to give credit where it's<BR>due, reading this book will do nothing to dispell<BR>notions that within the African American music lore,<BR>we do have someone who have said that &quot;there's a lot<BR>of feel good about felling bad&quot;.  The waters are NOT<BR>muddled when words are spoken so eloquently by the man<BR>that started it all!  Buy this book where books are<BR>sold.	2002-06-30
US	42925694	R143OL4C5XHQY8	0385332874	136732186	Whitegirl	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Playing The Race Card....and Winning!	Someone wanted her dead. Intent was good, but the results were quite different.... the canvas for the text and temperament for attempted murder is picture-perfect here. When a highly successful and stunning white woman is violently assaulted and her husband, a black athlete turned actor, is the prime suspect, one readily thinks of a specific high- profile case juiced in the news recently. Whether inspiration was prevalent for this book to come to fruition, only the author, Kate Manning knows for sure. \\"White Girl\\" is a poignant story of Charlotte Halsey, who for all practical purposes considered herself normal and oblivious to race and color...but after meeting and falling in love with Milo Robicheaux, all that changed. Color became more apparent, if not reasonable fodder for conjecture, in her attempt to find answers to the vicious assault that nearly took her life. The thing is, the would-be killer didn't finish the job...and Charlotte doesn't remember a thing!<br />Debut novels are not supposed to be as riveting, compelling, and so full of drama that we forget to anticipate flaws in writing style, plot pacing, and character development. We tend to expect these things to be evident, but we get none of this in this author's auspicious offering. In fact, the tone and tenor tantilize and tease as the author takes us on a journey to find the real culprit. Narrated in the first person, the book delves into issues and circumstances inherent in an interracial relationship where the opportunity to draw parallels are inevitable, if not predictable. Through Charlotte, she is able to give analytical perspective(s) to racial identity and complexities, real or imagined, in marrying a black man in a society that may not be ready to accept it. The book flows with continuity throughout as it explores meaning to the why and what of the attack, thus the hue and cry of the questions that are asked will give this novel a lot if it's flavor...and color! Who was the culprit? Was it really Milo, green with envy and jealous of her friendship with his best friend? Was it Jack, a temperamental ladies man with streaks of violence, who on occasion left her black and blue? What about her agent, a man prone to hints of yellow cowardice in his innuendos as to who may be responsible? Or, could it be anyone from the rage of society who didn't like this liaison to begin with?<br />Charlotte herself admits to the confusion and doubts of why it would happen in the first place. To wit: \\"I am under a blanket of suspicion. I have my own suspicion of Darryl. I DO suspect Milo. What's more, I suspect Jack. I suspect God, too. Who else could have thought this mess up? Who else but someone twisted enough to send his own child to earth to get nails hammered through his body, and stuck up alive on a cross like some kind of human note on a bulletin board?\\" This is an excellent read! Kate Manning gives us her bent on a highly congestic topic, which shows her sensitivity and penchant for weaving a great storyline against a compatible plot. I, for one, will be waiting for the next book that this author has in store for us.lly Milo, green with envy and jealous of her friendship with his best friend? Was it Jack, a temperamental ladies man with streaks of violence, who on occasion left her black and blue? What about her agent, a man prone to hints of yellow cowardice in his innuendos as to who may be responsible? Or, could it be anyone from the rage of society who didn't like this liaison to begin with?<br />Charlotte herself admits to the confusion and doubts of why it would happen in the first place. To wit: \\"I am under a blanket of suspicion. I have my own suspicion of Darryl. I DO suspect Milo. What's more, I suspect Jack. I suspect God, too. Who else could have thought this mess up? Who else but someone twisted enough to send his own child to earth to get nails hammered through his body, and stuck up alive on a cross like some kind of human note on a bulletin board?\\" This is an excellent read! Kate Manning gives us her bent on a highly congestic topic, which shows her sensitivity and penchant for weaving a great storyline against a compatible plot. I, for one, will be waiting for the next book that this author has in store for us.	2002-05-28
US	42925694	R3FRVTFKFOVY8N	0375757775	638709937	Black Coffee (Strivers Row)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Make room for the latest phenom in AA Literature!	...Now comes Tracy Price-Thompson, a highly decorated Desert Storm veteran telling a story about two soldiers whose against policy romance threatens both of their military careers.  What makes this book such a compelling read is the authors free-wheeling manipulation of alternating scenario changes utilizing the call and response style, in a narrative parlance sharing perspectives on their specific difficulties.  It's situations like this that tend to keep readers eagerly looking for drama to unfold in lieu of the author focusing on one entity of the plot, or even one character at the expense of the other before he/she is ready to be introduced.  Personally, I like this techique because it departs from the usual single narrator.  The authors use of this style gives us an up front and close look at the unique challenges, pseudo successes, and adversities depicting military life seldom written about in commercial fiction.<br />  Sandarella Coffee is a single mother reporting for duty at a Virginia military installation, meets and fall in love with Drill Sergeant Romulus Caesar. It doesn't help that Romulus is trapped in an unhappy and tumultuous marriage with twin sons.  Falling too deep for Sandarella, but acknowledging no love for his wife, he's haunted by his obligation to be a contributing parent.  The romance between the two proliferate throughout as they search for understanding in their forbidden liason eshewing in the process Uncle Sam's rigid fraternization rules, and the need to be inclusive in their respective familial matters.  Two strong willed and ambitious people notwithstanding, the author makes sure to stress character flaws, complexities, and frustration inhibited thereof as the exciting climax comes to fore.<br />  This is a quick read with short to moderate chapters, but at times it stumbles in places...especially when she doesn't spend more time stressing character development introducing issues such as drug dependency and HIV (which she briefly atrtributes to her sister.  Reading this book, you'd readily see that the writer has a way with words, but when there's no effort to temper verbosity it lends itself to metaphors and overused cliches that seem forced.  Despite this, it doesn't detract from the hue of the colors on this artist's palette.  You may add this to perhaps the next book to bead on your list!tributes to her sister.  Reading this book, you'd readily see that the writer has a way with words, but when there's no effort to temper verbosity it lends itself to metaphors and overused cliches that seem forced.  Despite this, it doesn't detract from the hue of the colors on this artist's palette.  You may add this to perhaps the next book to bead on your list!	2002-04-10
US	42925694	R3O7YRJB3S2C02	0743427157	100314387	The Envy of the World: On Being a Black Man in America	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Is the time of reckoning finally here for men of color?	Ellis Cose, a Newsweek Columnist, penned a provocative if not intrusive book on why Black men are feared, admired, shunned, and despised in a perceived racist society...and how they can overcome maladies that have allowed views of inferiority to proliferate. The Envy Of The World: On Being A Black Man In America is a superb book! Well written and full of insight, its significance should be appreciated within the style that is was written. It explains with clarity the challenges facing black men in twenty-first century America and offer ways out of the defeatist-type attitudes and despair that wreak havoc in the black community. It's my feeling, and the author concurs, that black men have never had more opportunity for success than they do today. But are the resources and said opportunities being adequately utilized to the fullest? Are the adversities, misconceptions, and stereotypical assessments that White America typically view blacks enough to warrant change? What steps need to be initiated to uplift the black man in this society?<br />These questions not only are answered, but show progressively some of the experiences that are faced by others trying to find solutions to the aforementioned, acknowledging various systemic obstacles that tend to stifle change. Sequenced in six chapters in his classic interview style, Mr Cose offers and supports his theory with reductive reasoning why they ARE the envy of the world. This is done by garnering the experiences of a broad range of black men, which culminates with 'Twelve Things You Must Know To Survive and Thrive In America'. He concludes by offering this gem: \\"There is more leeway than there has ever been in history for you to become whatever you would be; for you to accomplish whatever you dread; for you to escape the prisons of stereotypes and caricatures that our forefathers could not avoid\\" This in itself should be the impetus and reason to want to read such a book that seem to be the perfect anecdote for the future of a race.re of a race.	2002-04-06
US	42925694	R293KV6QNWK6XR	0743214331	528703759	Satin Doll: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Karen's Satin Doll Doesn't Disappoint!	Karen E. Quinones-Miller's self published paperback (recently revised for hardcover distribution) read familiar as she intricately weaves a tale about a woman's trials and tribulations growing up in New York City, matriculation to middle class acceptance, and finally earning the hard fought spoils of total independence. This is accomplished as the storyteller recalls common bonds of the 'sistergirl' phenomena. Regina Harris, the product of Harlem's reputation for hard life stars in this tale, and has as a supporting cast,<br />Yvonne, Pudding, and Tamika; these four friends revel in and are the recipients of lessons on why it's important to nurture the essence of true friendship.<br />To do this, Regina transforms a sordid past including being the caretaker of her sister's infant daughter, quitting school, resorting to shoplifting and dabbling in drugs. The latter, which culminated in her being the victim of a shooting proved to be the turning point of her life. After meeting Columbia University grad student Charles Whitfield, his aspirations and her friends' myriad of problems causes them to deal with class differences, acknowledgement of the past, and the ongoing struggle to build a meaningful future. This can be a good read, albeit various unnecessary twists result in the predictable ending.	2002-04-05
US	42925694	R34VJXT75EI8UL	034542896X	23634506	Hot Johnny (and the Women Who Loved Him)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sandra Jackson-Opoku does it again!	Sandra Jackson-Opoku is a celebrated new voice in the fictional literary mix, bringing forth a unique view from the African Diaspora.  Already having published her initial book (The River Where Blood Is Born; Ballantine/1999), her latest offering, HOT JOHNNY, is an honest, humorous, often disturbing portrait of the protagonist, a scarred man, husband, father, lover, gang member, and athlete.  Born John &quot;the Babtist&quot; Wright to a drunkard father who abandoned the family, and to a mother who disowned him, he was able to sytematically survive on his own throughout time from the battlefields of Chicago, Memphis, and finally North Carolina, in a series of episodal events chronicling Johnny's life through the women who love, hate him, and ultimately are left by him.<br />The episodes are told retrospectively where each woman is given a chapter to craft an image individually of their life with Johnny.  Yet, as you read and encounter their stories you get the feeling that there is much more to this man than his reputation.  The question, &quot;who IS this hot number, and why did they fall for him&quot; has the tendency to stay with you as you follow the action, despite the rather tedious descriptive analysis of each women's diatribe.  This is a good read if the author succeeds in having you believe that the plot and subplot supports the 'victims' claims that Johnny is central to their plights.<br />Sandra Jackson-Opoku is now teaching Creative Writing at the University of Miami, shows strength as a writer by moving seamlessly from girlfriend banter to formal-speak with ease.  With this type of storytelling, I think that she has a distinctive place in African-American literature.	2002-04-05
US	42925694	R16HAZOOY9D1LS	1588250059	246917965	A Dozen Ways to Sunday	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Montel's Moving Moments!	Life's prevailing propensity for trial and tribulation set stages to examine real life drama.  In doing so, there are compelling and compassionate means in which people have persevered to make meaningful differences through the agony of adversity.  The aforementioned is a testament to Montel Williams' attempt along with Daniel Paisner to shed insight to a montage wrought with gut wrenching dilemmas that warrant your attention.  Mr Williams has been witness to, have been involved in, and have been the recipient of the type of angst that not only try mens souls, but forces them to be the catalyst for change.  As I read this book, I couldn't help harkening back to previous episodes that depicted the caring spirit of someone who truly wanted to make a difference. 'A Dozen Ways To Sunday' and the twelve stories of hope and courage should have a profound effect on you.  The authors uses twelve personable points of contention to illustrate exhibitions of clarity to give readers reasons for allowance to step outside of themselves to acknowledge that...no matter how you hurt, there are others that hurt more.  This is done by the 'never say quit' attitudes displayed, and the ways they've stressed non verbally the importance of faith.  Their messages in each poignant case shows how important to them the need to encompass viable vestiges of strength, resolve, and vision to heal wounds.<br />  Take for example the case of Sulieman Beyah who battled the maladies of Lupus and a kidney transplant to be able to found a nonprofit to help others that shares his plight.  Consider too, the story of a couple who felt that no amount of children was too much for them in adopting ten siblings!  Then there's the story of Ian O'Gorman.  This is a unique trial of how high hopes for a new tomorrow spurred efforts by him to persevere through the ravages of cancer.  He accomplished it by keeping a smile on his face, and possessing a winning outlook in being the backbone of ways to help defray costs for cancer patients the world over.  You will meet these people and the others as you read on.<br />  I've asked myself who is this book for?  And why dramatize in print problems faced by a handful of suffering people?  Beyond any doubt, I was able to ascertain that taken together, these stories of hope, faith, and true grit presented a larger than life perspective told through the eyes of one of the most caring television personalities who endeavored to illustrate how certain truths can be attained by believing.  Albeit, 'A Dozen Ways To Sunday' may be looked upon as oxymoronic in light of the title, but underneath these twelve profiles the author(s) does nothing to dispell the notion that there would be many more with issues to spur the need to achieve success.  I feel that the intent here, as Montel laments, is for us to &quot;learn from these stirring individuals, and make a difference&quot;.  He goes on to say that, &quot;I've learned from the hand I've been dealt that time is the barometer for change to be able to give something back, to push forward in the name of perseverance&quot;.<br />  You'd want to read this book for the passionate insight beneath the surface of the lives Montel has touched---and who touched him--while giving us these heart felt stories.  You'd also want to read this book because a part of us always want to be at the forefront of inner peace by making a way for those that are less fortunate.  And if by chance you are moved, then you will do what's expected of you.  Buy this book there's a message within!ts for cancer patients the world over.  You will meet these people and the others as you read on.  <BR>   I've asked myself who is this book for?  And why dramatize in print problems faced by a handful of suffering people?  Beyond any doubt, I was able to ascertain that taken together, these stories of hope, faith, and true grit presented a larger than life perspective told through the eyes of one of the most caring television personalities who endeavored to illustrate how certain truths can be attained by believing.  Albeit, 'A Dozen Ways To Sunday' may be looked upon as oxymoronic in light of the title, but underneath these twelve profiles the author(s) does nothing to dispell the notion that there would be many more with issues to spur the need to achieve success.  I feel that the intent here, as Montel laments, is for us to &quot;learn from these stirring individuals, and make a difference&quot;.  He goes on to say that, &quot;I've learned from the hand I've been dealt that time is the barometer for change to be able to give something back, to push forward in the name of perseverance&quot;.<BR>   You'd want to read this book for the passionate insight beneath the surface of the lives Montel has touched---and who touched him--while giving us these heart felt stories.  You'd also want to read this book because a part of us always want to be at the forefront of inner peace by making a way for those that are less fortunate.  And if by chance you are moved, then you will do what's expected of you.  Buy this book there's a message within!	2002-04-03
