US	42936898	RO2IE5QBRJZFS	0896080900	962122124	The Washington Connection and Third World Fascism (The Political Economy of Human Rights - Volume I)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Controversial to say the least	Chomsky is about the most intense polemicist one is ever likely to encounter, and as a consequence, when reading him one should be very careful to check his sources and be on guard for tenuous logical leaps. However, he is also has no fear of speaking the unspeakable, and a knack for exposing the dubious motives of much of U.S. foreign policy. <br /> <br />This volume consists of five chapters, the first four of which are a usful examination of the U.S. role in propping up third world dictatorships around the globe in order to facilitate a \\"good invesetment climate\\" for foreign capitol.  The fifth chapter is a highly questionable argument contending that \\"bloodbaths\\" in Communist controlled regions are played up for propaganda reasons. However, the wrong-headed nature of chapter 5.2 does not detract from the truthfulness of the analysis for the first four chapters.  <br /> <br />The book opens with a quote from Orwell: The nationalist not only does not disapprove of atrocities committed by his own side, but he has a remarkable capacity for not even hearing about them.\\" This is, in essence, the message of entire book, illustrated in example after example. Certainly worth a critical-minded read.	2005-10-07
US	42936898	R25YOKHC9WZ2BD	0679454489	312807149	Merrick (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	Typical Rice	Unlike many reviewers of this book, I have to admit that am not a \\"huge Anne Rice fan\\". However, I have read the majority of her books and enjoyed some of them to an extent. But like most of her later work, this novel is nauseatingly bad. Page after page of wretched prose devoted to the non-sensical inner torment of David, who behaves like a five year old. Or to give up one of the few remaining tolerable characters, Louis, to an uncharacteristic and brazen act? Why not just let him die with a little dignity? I guess that's too much to ask for. I found the Mayfair Witch's books to be a bit better than the later Vampire Chronicles, and hoped that maybe some of that would carry over into Merrick, but the Mayfair witches are really not a part of this book at all. Merrick is some sort of distant relation, but there is no appearance of any character from the Witch's series (except for an extremely brief and unnecessary cameo by Julian).  <br /> <br />There is little to no motivation behind any of the actions in the book, and I find myself almost unable to find any words to describe the sense of disorganization that is this novel's core. I'm sure it has sold well and Ms. Rice has made plenty of profit from it, but, really, it's time to hang it up. She has completely squandered any goodwill from her energentic early novels. This tripe doesn't even deserve to be published.	2005-09-27
US	42936898	RW7YCGU0SMS65	0688014291	986630902	The One Minute Manager	Books	1	34	49	N	N	Avoid at all Costs	I have a suspicion that many people have read this book for the same reason I have: they were forced to by their boss. All I can say is that if this truly represents the mindset of those who are managing today's business, heaven help us. This book is a time bomb. It encourages managers to be distant and not spend adequate time communicating with their employees. Is one minute really the proper amount of time to spend setting out goals and expectations for any reasonably complex project? Is one minute enough time to even give a basic description of a simple process? On top of this, the book encourages managers to be manipulative with the emotions of their employees, giving unthinkably ridiculous reprimands and praisings that will no doubt to serve as excellent opportunities for employees to mock the manager behind his back. That was my experience with the book, at any rate. In a modern, integrated workplace, the kind of thinking this book promulgates is likely to lead to widespread resentment and decreased productivity.  <br /> <br />Additionally, if the reader has any contact with even the most rote literature, the style of this book will come across remarkably facile and thunderingly dull. I truly cannot believe that this is directed toward anyone with a high school diploma. Another reviewer mentions that the book might be read as satire, an idea that I wish I had thought of when I slogged through it. If you see this one sitting on your manager's desk, be sure to toss it in the trash when he isn't looking. The workplace you save might just be your own.	2005-09-27
US	42936898	R3AYYKOKJHZBRU	0380789620	483289343	I Sing the Body Electric! And Other Stories	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Not Bradbury at his Best	I would like to note, as have some other reviewers, that I am working from the 18 story collection. It saddens me to say this, but these stories are a far cry from some of Bradbury's other material, and hardly worth the time for modern readers. Bradbury has an unnerving tendancy in his short stories to be one-dimensional, hokey, and heavy-handed; all these characteristics are on display in this collection. Also, I am willing to forigive his portraits of women in some of his earlier work, but these stories date as late as the 1960s, and Bradbury has to learn to write women in ways that are not hysterical or conniving.  <br /> <br />While there are moments when Bradbury is able to recapture some of the awe and beauty of his earlier work, much of this is, sadly, sentimental hackery. Stories like \\"Any Friend of Nicholas Nickleby's is a Friend of Mine\\" and \\"The Man in the Rorscharch Shirt\\" are so obvious and dull as to be difficult to finish reading. \\"Tomorrow's Child\\" is so absolutely ridiculous and wrong-headed that is almost makes a person angry. I've read quite a bit of Bradbury, and this was the first book of his where I have had trouble reaching the end. \\"The Inspired Chicken Motel\\" is the one bright spot, I felt, where Bradbury manages to stumble into a father and son's shared sense of wonder, and their desire to believe in some kind cosmic meaning, revealed in an omen. Other than that, the stories are rote and uninspiring. <br /> <br />There is plenty of great Bradbury out there; I love Dandelion Wine, Fahrenheit 451, The Martian Chronicles, and Something Wicked This Way Comes. All those books are worth owning. But not everything Bradbury ever wrote is genius, and certainly not _I Sing the Body Electric!_	2005-09-12
US	42936898	R3QHSGLQISBIXU	0553204262	74845460	Medicine for Melancholy	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good fiction, though not among Bradbury's best	Some of Bradbury's books have retained all their power extraordinarily well: Farenheit 451, Martian Chronicles, and Dandelion Wine are my favorites. Those novels (to use the term rather loosely) exemplefy Bradbury's imaginative charm, warmth, and meaningfulness. A Medicine for Melancholy is not nearly so sturdy as those books, but is nonetheless an enjoyable, if light, experience. Bradbury presents short stories, some of them only a few pages in length, that deal largely with people's internal struggles with lonliness, homesickness, or love.  <br /> <br />Someone who may be familiar with Bradbury through, say, Farenheit 451 will probably want to sample some other Bradbury before taking this book. But for someone who is already an established fan, this slim volume will be a welcome addition. It has the customary Bradbury whimsy that is so striking about his books; though it fails to branch out beyond the sort of ground the Bradbury has covered numerous times before, there are worse things than repeating yourself, when you have something good to say.	2005-02-03
US	42936898	RIK8B3BI9COVL	1902593898	953169266	At War With Asia: Essays on Indochina	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Standard Issue Chomsky	If you are familiar with the ideas of Noam Chomsky, this book will come as no surprise to you.  He puts forth essentially the same arguments that he did in his earlier offering, _American Power and the New Mandarins_. Chomsky writes about the war in Asia by talking about U.S. action in various southeast Asian countries and the resistence that springs up against it. The most interesting essays are the ones about Laos and North Vietnam because these writings have emerged from Chomsky's own trip to the region. He is essentially reporting on what he saw during his time on the ground. These chapters are the most convincing in the book because of this aspect, and they are the element that makes this book worth buying. I'm not sure under what circumstances Chomsky was able to travel to these war zones, but his record of the trip is filled with empathy and heartbreak. He is a polemicist at the top of his game, giving what appears to be a fairly honest account of what he saw. I found the book to be enlightening and powerful. Another good offering from one of the harshest critics of U.S. foreign policy.	2005-02-02
US	42936898	R1JRCQ71GZ7ACH	0553277537	468229732	Dandelion Wine (Grand Master Editions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Bradbury's Best	As someone who has read a fair number of Bradbury's books, I can say with confidence that _Dandelion Wine_ is his most moving work. F451 will long be remembered for its urgency and message, but _Dandelion Wine_ is truly a more loving book, one that takes the time to know its characters, and lets their experiences spread slowly over its pages. I'm a somewhat prolific reader, and rarely revisit a book once I've finished it, but I think that this is one of the few I will come back to.  <br /> <br />The book is a highly sentimental account of the summer of 1928, where Douglas Spaulding does the things young boys do in the summer: plays in dangerous places, speculates about adults, and feels general sense of dynamic \\"aliveness\\". The book is essentially a series of loosely connected vignettes of Douglas' various misadventures over the course of three months; it is highly entertaining and will almost certainly bring nostalgia for childhood back to anyone who shares the type of memories that Bradbury is relating through this book.  <br /> <br />I recommend it very strongly to anyone who can get still get wrapped up in the ideas of their youth. A book full of wonder--read it and be 12 again.	2005-01-13
US	42936898	R3W3RYK1GYH8VB	0345389417	533056481	Servant of the Bones	Books	2	2	9	N	N	More of the same from Rice	Anne Rice continues to be one of the most frustrating bestselling authors to read. Two stars is being very charitable for this work, maybe her worst since _The Mummy_ or the colossally bad _Queen of the Damned_. This novel finds Azriel, the titular Servant of the Bones, relating his story to a biographer, a la Rice's first novel, Interview with the Vampire. The form is completely ridiculous, with the entire novel being encompassed in quotation marks. The book is rife with poor writing, and Rice seems to be on a quest to contradict herself as much as possible. It's full of muddled, meaningless prose, expressing sentiments such as, \\"he yearned to be free, yet was drawn ever closer\\" etc, etc, etc. The dialogue is as stilted as ever, and the plot clearly just a rehashing of the ideas that she used in the Vampire Chronicles. The most disappointing aspect of all this is that this could have been an interesting novel (something that I would not say about everything Rice has written). You'd think that maybe a genii would have some interesting things to say, but instead we get a ludicrous plot about an incredibly powerful cult that wants to destroy the world. If you've seen it once, you've seen it a hundred times.   <br /> <br />Skip it.	2005-01-13
US	42936898	R1DKQG6RYF7M1F	156584775X	36217551	American Power and the New Mandarins: Historical and Political Essays	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Newly Relevant	Chomsky's first political book, _American Power_ is a devastating critique for the U.S. foray into Southeast Asia, which Chomsky considers to be little more than modified imperialism.  The book starts somewhat slowly, first with an extended essay focusing largely on the Spanish Civil War, which though interesting, seems like a strange place to begin the discussion. The second essay focuses on the decision of drop nuclear weapons during World War II, and the absence of \\"war guilt\\" in the U.S. over that action. The second essay, like the first, is interesting, though not seemingly directly related to Chomsky's Vietnam critique.  The remainder of work focuses quite squarely on Vietnam, and offers the sort of moral outrage that Chomsky contends was conspicuously lacking from the liberal academics of the time.  The entire underpinning of Chomsky's premise has to do with the morality of U.S. action, rather than the pragmatism that he chides others for basing their positions on.  <br /> <br />The book is quite powerful in many of its conclusions. A few criticisms: there is extensive use of irony throughout the work, occasionally to the point of excess; while Chomsky eviscerates a half dozen of the \\"liberal intelligensia\\", it's difficult for me, as someone who was not alive to witness the war, to know if these voices typify the liberal objections to the war, or if Chomsky has cherry-picked these individuals (obviously Schlesinger was a major voice, but I'm not familiar with the others); if you don't have some conception of the forces behind the Spanish Civil War, the first essay will be somewhat confusing.  It was for me, anyway. <br /> <br />Altogether though, particularly in light the U.S. invasion of Iraq, many of Chomsky's ideas have taken on a new urgency. The comparision between Vietnam and Iraq will come very naturally as you read _American Power_.  It is well worth our time to make this comparison.  Chomsky's thesis is as valid now as it was in 1969.	2004-12-30
US	42936898	RAJUOVPRCP36E	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Tolerable distraction	As someone who is not typically a Rice fan, I found this book more digestable than some of her other work.  In general, the Lives of the Mayfair Witches is considerably more enjoyable than the vampire books, I felt. The Witching Hour is probably the strongest of the three books; Lasher is wash out...at least until the end, where Rice has Rowan act like a rational person and appears to put a very final ending in place.  So I wasn't sure what to expect in this third installment. Indeed, it has very little to do with the other novels except to have some of the same characters stand around and listen while Ash, the Taltos, tells his story. I guess one reason that I liked this one a little more was that the story happens mostly in the present tense (except for a portion of the final third of the book) and that the plotting is fairly straightforward. The only point that made me slap my head in disbelief was when Mona suddenly decides to keep her baby/monster at all costs. That is inconsistent with the character that Rice had created for her.  <br /> <br />But mostly it's harmless enough. You won't find anything life changing here--but hey, we're reading Anne Rice, not F. Scott Fitzgerald. It's less grating than much of her other work, and for that alone, I'm willing to give it a decent, three star rating.	2004-12-16
US	42936898	RPAKKE7QORBX3	1873176163	363300436	The Philosophy of Punk: More Than Noise	Books	2	30	34	N	N	Flimsy	I certainly appreciate the intentions of this book, and wish that everything in it were true. However, the punk &quot;movement&quot; (if it can be called such a thing) is not nearly as disciplined or organized as this book makes it appear. As someone who believes in at least many of the platitudes displayed in _Philosophy of Punk_, I have to say that, though I wish it were different, the punk scene often does not live up to the image the O'Hara creates for it. The book is wildly enthusiastic, hardly ever questioning the scene's commitment to a leftist utopian vision. O'Hara seems to have either missed or omitted the fact that punk can have a distinctive reactionary element as well, that it is often dominated by males, that it can be quite hostile to homosexuals and that many individuals involved with it are downright ignorant. That's not to say that punk rock hasn't done great things for me personally or that it isn't a generally positive force in the world, but O'Hara clearly overestimates the movement's importance and clarity. Additionally, the book lacks any real academic credentials. O'Hara cites a handful of the more well known zines in order to underline some of his points, but has no real scientific tools to measure the feelings or beliefs of the punk scene, other than his highly personal (and thus, biased) experience in the scene himself. In large part because of this, the book lacks a real sense of introspection and seems to harbor no doubts about the righteousness of the scene. In my opinion, self-criticism is very punk, and it's complete absence makes the book hardly anything more than propaganda.	2003-11-05
US	42936898	R3W3R0PJOXAG5E	0345409671	983362906	Memnoch the Devil (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	More like 2.5 stars	_Memnoch_ is not a well-written book. I've never been a huge Rice fan, and _Memnoch_ does not change my opinion, but I do believe it is better than the average Rice novel simply because the idea is somewhat intriguing. Some of the theology is entertaining and having the Devil as a main character is always a good selling point. As usual, Rice is overlong and belabors the point ad naseum, but at least she is trying to accomplish something here. When Lestat is not talking to the Devil, he is constantly preoccupied with another character's menstration and there is plenty of needless and boring explication of exactly how many levels of angels there are and every step of the creation of the universe. I can't recommend the book. But it is better than the trash that the two previous books in the series have been. Disclaimer: avoid the book if you are offended by religious images or ideas that are unorthadox.	2003-11-05
US	42936898	R38U9O6MUJRZ1V	034538475X	221203857	The Tale of the Body Thief (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	2	2	4	N	N	The Series is Dead	Let me make clear, _Tale of the Body Thief_ is much superior to _Queen of the Damned_. But it doesn't come close to the heights that Rice reached in her most fun novel _The Vampire Lestat_. And let's face it, if these books are not fun to read, there is not much left. The philsophy is overstated and un-subtle and the prose can be achingly difficult to slog through. So if the fun factor is gone, so should go the readership. <br />Still, the series had nowhere to go but up after _Queen_, and that is where this novel goes.  Just not far enough to be ultimately redeemable. Lestat's little adventure is, I suppose, meant to take us closer to his inner thoughts and motivations, but we emerge from the novel knowing almost nothing about him that wasn't already apparent. This is a character study that does precious little studying. As for the thriller/mystery aspect of the book, each step is obvious well in advance and little or no surprise when it happens, with one notable exception that occurs at the very end of the novel. From this reader's point of view, it's not worth the effort that is needed and frustration that is caused. Lestat comes away from his human experience having learned nothing about himself, having no insight into his nature. Apparently the only emotion he could feel was disgust at himself, and an intense desire to be a killer vampire again. It doesn't do much to make him sympathetic. Of course, if Rice let Lestat remain a human, then she couldn't keep writing more asinine novels about him that sell like hotcakes. Don't encourage her. The series is dead.	2003-09-16
US	42936898	R1Y3IBERNIQ3T3	0140445749	432045436	Early Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	7	17	N	N	Not for beginners	As someone who thought he had a relatively good grasp of what Marxist philsophy is comprised of, it came as something of a surprise that this text was so incomprehensible. This was the first actual Marx I have ever set out to read. I believed that _Early Writings_ might a good place to start (you know: start at the beginning, as they say). At any rate, I would encourage someone who is a novice at this sort of thing to start with another book. From the very start I had a difficult time determing exactly what Marx was getting at. The first 200 pages are a refutation to a Hegelian concept of the state. If you are not familiar with the writings and ideas of Hegel, you will not want to read that particular work. The second half of the book is more approachable, but not what I would term &quot;accessible&quot; by any means. I would recommend this only to people that already have extensive knowledge of Marx's terminology and belief systems. Without this prerequisite, you might as well be reading Latin.	2003-09-16
US	42936898	REWUAE2MNE04F	0836218515	183687804	The PreHistory of The Far Side:: A 10th Anniversary Exhibit	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Man Behind the Curtain	_Prehistory_ is a rewarding collection of anecdotes and prototypes of Far Side cartoons. Obviously this book is essential for anyone who considers themself to be a fan of the strip. Larsen gives us a peek into how his ideas take shape, and tells some very funny stories about getting started. I especially enjoyed reading how he only took one portfolio to San Francisco with him. It was a great story. The reason I'm not giving it the full five stars is because I thought that there could have been more material divulged by the author. The last third of the book is only cartoons. While they often speak for themselves (hilariously so) I wished that Larson would have stuck around more at the end of the book to elucidate some of his concepts and generally do this thing. A fun, fast read. Worth your ten dollars.	2003-08-13
US	42936898	R3K5J495XSN92X	0140443924	962043447	Tales of Hoffmann (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	14	57	N	N	Uninspiring	I fear that I will be vilified for not recommending this book, but honesty requires that I say I found it remarkably unenjoyable. I was given the book as a gift, and was not previously familiar with Hoffmann. Let me say also, that I am not a complete Philistine, and I thought that if this indeed considered a &quot;classic&quot; then there was no reason I shouldn't like it. But the first story, &quot;Mademoiselle de Scudery&quot;, described by the translator as Hoffmann's masterpiece, is a total train wreck. The characters are ridiculously artificial and overwrought, though this is I suppose expected in this genre of literature. But worst of all, the story is completely unable to generate any kind of tension. It was infuriating to read a banal account of these events which obviously could have been suspensful. <br />Some of the other stories are better: I enjoyed &quot;The Sandman&quot; and &quot;The Mines at Falun&quot;, but often the other stories are filled with mystical symbols and bizarre events that appear to bear no relationship between with the rest of the story. I'm all for unusual ideas and out of the ordinary happenings, but there is a penchant in these stories for meaninglessness and triviality. Maybe I'm not seeing the 900 pound gorilla in the room, I don't know. But as it stands now, I would not want to pass the gift of these stories on to anyone.	2003-08-13
US	42936898	RMHSLOB61JG27	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Lame	This is a book that does not know its place. What should be pulpy fun, is instead masquarading as Important Literature. Rice has really misfired with this book. I wasn't a fan of _Interview_ but I thought that _Vampire Lestat_ was an improvement. Here the train has derailed though. The end of the previous novel in the series (Vampire Lestat) seems to indicate that we will finally be getting some action that happens in the present tense. Wrong. This book, like the first two, is almost completely about events that happened in the distant past. It's about time that Rice let her vampires walk around in the present world. The continuous re-writing of her own pseudo-history is also beginning to be a real drag. Let's pick a origin story and stick with it!<br />The Queeen, when she finally makes her plan known, turns out to be about the biggest unintentionally idiotic character in modern fiction (ok, that's an overstatement, but still). She seriously seems to believe that killing off most of the men on earth will create a peaceful, harmonious planet. But even if that were true, which it is not, why would the Queen want to create such a planet? She's a damn vampire! She's not supposed to have human concerns, as Rice points out continually about her \\"lesser\\" vampires in the first two books of the series. The plot twist is completely hair-brained.<br />And then there's the climax. The whole novel builds toward the battle between this ultra-powerful queen and the ragtag group of rebels. There is some philosphical garbage they spout at each other, and then the the battle occurs in the space of about three sentences. End of story. It makes you want to throw the book in the ocean. I'm not sure that it's worth reading the next installment after this fiasco, but I suppose I'll give it a shot, simply based on the goodwill Rice got from me after Vampire Lestat. As for Queen of the Damned, the book is as bad as the movie. And that's about the worst insult you can hurl at a piece of fiction.iction.	2003-07-28
US	42936898	R1XS0X5J31IHQT	0140444432	468800131	003: The Divine Comedy, Vol. 3: Paradise	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Difficult text, rendered well	I am not a professional Dante scholar, and in fact, speak no Italian at all, so my judgement as to the accuracy of the translation is suspect. That said, Musa does an admirable job of helping the reader understand this very difficult final third of the Divine Comedy. Of the three sections of the Comedy, my feeling is that Paradise is the least interesting, though it would be a shame to read the first two parts and neglect the third, since they all are integral to understanding what Dante was trying to accomplish. But the characters in Paradise are all literally perfect and sinless, and there is not nearly as much of interest as in the other books. There is a lot of symbolism involving what shapes the saints stand in and the like, but its all rather trying and sometimes monotonous, to me anyway. Musa is a good guide though. The translation smartly abandons any hope of recreating Rima Terza, and goes with a straight blank verse rendering. The translation is subtle and effective, even when the poem itself is slow and tedious. Despite my beliefs about Paradise, both history and personal experience tell me that Divine Comedy is an important and fulfilling part of the Western Canon that should not go neglected. I have no problem recommending Musa's version of Paradise.	2003-07-28
US	42936898	R2TELYBR3WWR0A	0944287123	382323719	Drop Him Till He Dies: The Twisted Tragedy of Immigrant Homesteader Thomas Egan	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I'm Glad Somebody Wrote About This	I had the chance to meet John Egan, the author of this book, on a couple of occasions, and would not have ever heard of it if it weren't for that. Armed with only my curiosity, I purchased a copy and found an interesting story that I had never heard mentioned before. The book is about Thomas Egan, a homesteader who is accused of murdering his wife. We follow his trial, gruesome execution, and the eventual clearing of all charges against him. <br />The author employs a writing style that is not exactly academic, though the information is conveyed clearly enough. There is a lot of somewhat frustrating attempts by the author to know what is impossible to know. He often tries to suggest what Egan may have been thinking at a particular time, or the reactions of his neighbors, or even the way the accused may have looked at someone.  There is no evidence for any of these things, and the need of the author to try to surmise them takes the reader off track.  There is plenty of evidence about why Egan did not commit the murder, though the most important pieces are not introduced until the end of the story. In that way, the book plays out more like a mystery novel than an academic study. That is not necessarily a bad thing, however.  It just means that the book must be read in a different way.<br />By the conclusion, it is easy enough to see that Egan is in fact innocent, and that a person suffered a grotesque death (you'll have to read the story to see exactly what happened--I found it to be a shocking indicment of the competence of the executioners, or possibly even Divine Intervention, if one is inclined to be believe in that sort of thing) who did not deserve that type of fate. Some large questions are asked about prejudice and the justice of the death penalty. This short book packs quite a punch when all is said and done. I admit that through the first half of it, I did not feel much sympathy for Thomas Egan, but by the time the second shoe drops, it is clear that a massive miscarriage of justice has occurred. These are the types of stories that must not be forgotten. They must be told so future generations do not make the same mistakes that their predecessors did. Congratulations to John Egan for having the perseverance to tell this one.	2003-07-14
US	42936898	R2XY4Z4VKG3J5	0345313860	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles, Book II)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Better than the first	_The Vampire Lestat_ is a big step up from _Interview with the Vamprire_.  Where the first book was overlong and self-indulgent, this one is much more sleek (though it is actually a longer book) and believable, if you can really use that word to describe a book like this.  Though too dense in some spots, and provoking incredulity periodically, the book is mostly fun and doesn't take itself too seriously.  The philosophy it offers is light.  It can basically be summed up in a few words: Even though life is meaningless, people still fear death and will do anything to avoid it; as well as: If you had eternity to live, you'd make a lot of mistakes and be miserable much of the time, but you still wouldn't want to give it up.<br />The writing style of the novel is similar to _Interview_ but more disciplined. The prose is less flowery and tends to get in the way less often. The historical settings, where most of the scenes are staged, are reasonably compelling.  In fact, the beginning and end of the book, which occur in the present day, are the weakest parts. Though I have not read part three, I fear that much of the magic may be lost when Rice is no longer writing about the &quot;olden days&quot; when it feels like these sorts of events could have happened.  At any rate, this book is not a complete waste of time, though it won't reinvent anybody's worldview or really make any statements at all of much importance. But there are worse novels to bring to the beach.	2003-07-14
US	42936898	R17HFT8TFKMWM4	0451528026	115131471	The Purgatorio (Signet Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Reading Dante is sort of like being in purgatory	I read the Mendelbaum (I apologize for what may be an awful misspelling) version of _Inferno_ quite some time back, but I always wanted to finish the series. They didn't have the Mendelbaum translation at my local bookstore, so I went with this instead. I'd say that Ciardi did an admiral job with the rhyme. I was able to accept the compromise between actual terza rima and a straight translation, given the scarcity of rhymes in English. I felt that most of the work was understandable, though there were some moments of distinct confusion. The notes are very in-depth and keep a sense of humor about them, something that is vital when reading Dante. They provide a refreshing sense of perspective when one starts to become too bogged down in Dante's poem. There is certainly a lot to be gained from reading Dante, despite the effort required. I thought this edition enhanced by enjoyment of the poem considerably. I'd recommend it, with the caveat that it is probably more imprecise than other translations, due to the need to rhyme.	2003-06-18
US	42936898	R36YWJGNHTAUWW	0375756701	821153252	Dracula (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	I Vant To Drink Your Blood	_Dracula_ is by no means an intolerable novel.  I enjoyed quite a bit more than I thought I might, actually.  However, it's certainly not a great book, or one that necessarily deserves to be called a &quot;Modern Library Classic&quot;. The best part about this edition is the introduction by Peter Straub, by far the most interesting part of the book. Straub lays out a very convincing set of ideas about why the book is popular and what its meaning may really be. He is right when he states that film is what has kept this book in popular culture. It surely would be long forgotten without the countless cinematic efforts to bring vampire tales to a mass audience. The characters in the book are largely interchangable, with old Van Helsing coming in as the most irrating because of his hard to read accent. They also are rather shallow, and express thier emotions in a sort of child-like way. However, the opening chapters are exciting, and throughout the book well written patches appear at regular intervals. But let's be clear: this is a book that one should read for fun, and maybe to see what triggered the popularity of the vampire archetype, but not to find any deep meanings or real parallels with modern life. It's an idiosyncratic, Victorian horror novel with many good moments, but it is definately not a vital part of a discerning person's personal library.	2003-06-18
US	42936898	RA2QDSZ1X2OEU	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Lacks any emotional punch	_Interview with the Vampire_ is a train wreck of a novel. I'm told that some later Rice books are better, but based on this, I don't think I want to try them. The book's main problem is simply that Rice is not a very good writer. The storyline has a lot of promise, but it never pays off. The &quot;interview&quot; format of the book is irrating and unnecessary. It simply pulls us out of the story into an uninteresting situation where we know nothing of consequence is going to happen. Then, during the story itself, Rice's prose is so flowery and unsubstantial that it is difficult to gain any understanding of what characters are supposed to be feeling. Often the prose actually obscures the action with it's insistent long-windedness. The reason I'm giving two stars instead of one, is because Rice does manage a few really nice images, and occasionally is able to draw a scene for a page or two that genuinely incites empathy in the reader. For example, the way Louis first attacks Claudia, and then struggles with what to do with her later, is very well done. These kind of moments are the exception, not the rule though. Utlimately, Louis is a big whiner, while Lestat, Claudia, and Armand are never more than cardboard characters that I could basically not care less about. Don't bother with this book.	2003-05-11
US	42936898	R37N0LJUTTFFNL	0375756817	474714897	The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Take it for what it is	This is not a book for adults, so do not go into it with adult expectations. The plot is not very complex, nor are the characters that rich. But for what it is, mainly a children's book that has a tendancy to make adults whistful about their own youth, it works fairly well. Clearly not Twain's best (I am partial to _Connecticut Yankee_ as well as, of course, _Huck Finn_) but all in all a decent book, and one that should not be overlooked. The main reason for the missing star in my review is the introduction. I was hoping for something a bit more substantial. In actuality, it is short and not very informative. The glossing is all in the back of the book and none of the glossed words are marked in any way, which makes the reader guess which words might have extra meaning, or have changed in some way over time. I imagine there are better versions of the book available, and I would suggest someone looking to buy it find them.	2003-04-16
US	42936898	R151NJD3ENA0SD	0345354621	376914649	The Terminal Man	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Dated, and uninteresting	I was a big fan of Crichton, especially in my high school years.  Many of his books effectively combine science, philosophy, and action.  This one does not. The fears it attempts to play on are largely no longer relevant in our society. The scenario it presents seems extremely unlikely, even when compared to the scenarios in books like Jurassic Park. None of the characters are well developed. Even 100 pages into the book I found myself flipping back to the first few pages in order to try to remember who was who. The story is highly formulaic, and the reader can more or less guess everything that is going to happen. It is amazing that this book has not been made into a bad film, considering that it feels like it was written for the screen, much more so than, say, Sphere (which was a great book, but a horrible movie). At any rate, The Terminal Man is an easy read, which you will finish in a few days if you so desire, but you won't come away with any new ideas, and it will not be tremendously entertaining. Even bad Crichton is better than many authors, and there are some good passages in the novel, but not nearly enough. The worst Crichton that I have read.	2003-03-20
US	42936898	R33LQMTTQSNDDD	0940450151	38740728	Emerson: Essays and Lectures: Nature: Addresses and Lectures / Essays: First and Second Series / Representative Men / English Traits / The Conduct of Life (Library of America)	Books	4	17	32	N	N	Essential for reference	This book certainly has moments of great insight. Emerson's passion is quite clear and often well-articulated. But this is a very lengthy book, and many of the essays no longer have as much to offer as they perhaps once did. There are several that are invaluable, of course, but many of them have simply become too obtuse and arcane to be really relevant anymore. I read the book all the way through, but my recommendation would be that people purchase it simply for reference, and maybe to read the more famous essays now and again. In the end, many of the essays have disturbing undercurrents of racism or anti-democratic sentiment and Emerson's inability to see nature as a dark force, as it can sometimes be, sinks large portions of the book. We must bear in mind that Emerson was writing in a different time and that his comments that are now unacceptable were not always that way. Clearly this book is historically important, and it is obviously a worthwhile one to have sitting on the shelf to quote or occasionally reference, but it is certainly not the bulletproof guide to living that many have made it out to be.	2003-03-15
US	42936898	R21U5WSO50ZX9V	0192833847	809826371	On Liberty and Other Essays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Worth owning	The editor of this collection states that when read together, the four essays contained in this Oxford World's Classics edition reveal Mill to be an organized thinker on par with Marx. I'm not quite so sure of that, but I will say the collections feels thematically consistant and well thought out. Readers should not be scared off because Mill is considered a \\"classic\\" text. The tone of these essays, with the possible exception of \\"Utilitarianism\\" is pretty light, and Mill even occassionally makes an effort to crack a joke. In \\"On Liberty\\" and \\"Utilitarianism\\" we see an abstract breakdown of his belief structure where he tries to answer questions like, \\"When is it justified for government to interfere in individuals lives?\\" and \\"What is the overarching goal of society?\\" After he attempts to answer these questions he gets more specific by applying the principles to how government should operate in \\"Representative Government\\" and in \\"The Subjection of Women\\". Some concepts now outdated, but on the whole, still a relativly strong argument. It is particularly frustrating to see Mill talking about proportional representation in \\"Represenative Government\\" and knowing that the logic of that argument has still not made much headway here in the United States well over a hundred years later. Mill's systematic thinking makes this collection worth owning.	2003-03-15
US	42936898	R3FJ8R2IGTZT50	0815701071	462389866	Bush v. Gore: The Court Cases and the Commentary	Books	2	4	5	N	N	You can stop after the first half	The only reason this book has any value is because of the opinions from the courts that take up the first half of the volume. The rest of the book is filled with op-ed pieces from various newspapers and magazines, liberal and conservative. They are all pretty much worthless. They are too short to offer any real insight, and instead simply seek to use very abrasive rhetoric to whip their respective troops into a frenzy. Reading the court cases however, is clearly an essential part of understanding what happened in the election of 2000. To me, it is fairly clear that what happened to Gore was blatently undemocratic and unfair, but also completely legal under Florida's statutory scheme. So the fundamental question that the book raises, though it never directly address it, is, should we be pursuing a basic sense of fairness, or strictly adhereing to laws, even when it is apparent that they are not functioning in a democratic way, or to the benefit of the citizenry whatsoever. If you think that op-ed columnists will adequately answer that, think again. But at least this book allows thoughtful readers who want to ponder the question for themselves the opportunity to see some source materials.	2003-03-15
US	42936898	R1K1QG9FGE940D	0061315419	851617958	In Defense of Anarchism	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Knocking out Philosphical Cobwebs	First, a disclaimer: this book is not about how some form of anarchism might operate. It is purely theoretical, arguing for &quot;philosophical anarchism&quot; based on the imperitive of not undermining personal autonomy. So don't expect it to defend anarchists in the Spanish Civil War or something. That's not what it is about.<br />But, the book is excellent. I am no anarchist, but the arguments set forth here are completely convincing. If we value autonomy--and almost everyone claims they do--then these are the necessary conclusions. Wolff's comments on majoritarianism vigorously ring the bell of indisputable truth. This is not what you learned in high school government class. <br />The book is quite short. The preface is a fun read, as Wolff talks about the how the book came into being, but once the first chapter starts, he is all business. But though it deals almost exclusively with philosophical ideas, it had no problem keeping my attention. A short 80 pages has given me a whole new understanding of the justifcation of government. Consider my philosophical cobwebs knocked out.	2002-12-17
US	42936898	R2G7GS8E7UOSA6	0156014106	517454879	Democracy Derailed: Initiative Campaigns and the Power of Money	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Democracy Derailed Derailed	_Democracy Derailed_ is obviously very well researched. Broder cannot be faulted for his attention to detail. He talks with a wide variety of people, some who feel that the initiative process serves democracy wonderfully, others who disagree. And while it seems as if he tried to make the book fairly evenhanded, every once in a while Broder makes an off the cusp comment that is virulently cynical about the people's ability to make good choices. Certainly the masses have not always made the best decisions, but Broder is unwilling to give them any credit at all. This distrust of the public seems especially out of place when it is revealed that most of the initiatives that are promoted solely for the benefit of a special interest fail. That seems to indicate a public that can make good decisions. <br />Despite that complaint, much of Broder's analysis is still valid. The initiative process has clearly become something that is not used by &quot;the people&quot; but mostly by corporations to further their own political agenda. The money issue has polluted this avenue, that was originally supposed to be a way for normal people to pass laws that legislatures were too scared/beholden to interests to make. And while this is unequivically true, Broder does not spend enough time talking about ways that the process could be changed to reflect the original intention. His (in my opinion, unwarrented) distrust of the public leads him toward wanting to abolish this potential tool for democracy.	2002-12-17
US	42936898	R1RGXYCZYKZZ4K	0521794315	547927432	The Cambridge Illustrated History of Warfare (Cambridge Illustrated Histories)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Jumping Off Point	As a student I found this book to be helpful and articulate. It has a lot of ground to cover--Ancient Greece to the present day--and does a remarkable job of conveying what happened and why. Though it is occasionally dry, I found myself engaged throughout. My only complaint is that it maybe could have benefited from being a bit longer. Brevity is certainly a virtue, but when your topic is as large as this one, I think a longer book is justified. It's definately nice to have around as a reference book too.	2002-12-17
US	42936898	R2PDYRSORPPW4R	0300084552	734229603	On Democracy (Yale Nota Bene)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Dry but accurate	_On Democracy_ is not a very joyful book to read.  It is rather dry and doesn't seem to want to create much controversy in the things it says.  However, it is mostly accurate and does a fairly good job of laying out the basics (and I mean the very basics) of democratic theory, as well as mapping a few of the different ways in which democracy is actually practiced in various countries.  If you are relatively familiar with this sort of material, this book will not provide you with any new insights.  But for someone just starting to examine the nature of political beliefs, I can imagine that this may be helpful.  If nothing else, it will probably be handy as a sort of quick reference book.	2002-10-27
US	42936898	R33GFJPBZUDIYK	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	vonnegut must be forced to write longer books.	Cat's Cradle is no Slaughter-House Five. But what novel can possibly compare to that one? Though not as staggering as that book, Cat's Cradle is still can unbelievably well done novel that manages to be both hysterical and profound in a way that only Vonnegut can seem to pull off. It is a short book, but this slim volume contains a mountain of insight on religion, war, human nature, sex, well-being, and the limited nature of human comprehension. It broaches all these subjects with humbleness; it brings no pretensions to the table and is throughly honest--it never feels like it is being preachy. Bokonon is one of the best characters I have encountered in all of literature, and the philosphy he promulgatges is so obvious that it is hard to believe that it sounds so fresh. I guess that sometimes obvious things are hard to see. This book states the obvious that maybe we would never notice on our own. Cat's Cradle is vintage Vonnegut. Bokonon says: \\"History, read it and weep.\\" I say, read Cat's Cradle and have your mind blown.	2002-09-03
US	42936898	R3196POMD1YWMS	0385334540	544523612	Why Not Me?: The Inside Story of the Making and Unmaking of the Franken Presidency	Books	2	3	12	N	N	Boring, even for liberals.	I am a liberal and I loved Franken's previous book, Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat ... and Other Obervations. But I have to say that Why Not Me was extremely disappointing. Most of the humor in this book is not really related to politics, but instead focuses on hookers, drugs, and the incompetence of candidate Franken and his team. While there are occasional bright spots throughout the book, they were few and far between. Franken became one of my personal heroes after Rush Limbaugh..., so to find his next book to be so lackluster is quite a letdown. I was unable to find much of a critique of anything in this tome. And even when Franken gets it right, he then repeats the joke until it is completely bereft of humor. While at first it was funny (and pertinent!) to hear Franken talk about his single-issue campaign, ATM fees, it eventually gets so old that the reader is begging for a return to prostitute humor. Anyway, read Franken's Limbaugh book, but skip this one. Why Not Me?--because your book is not worth the reader's time or money.	2002-09-03
US	42936898	RA8OTJCRFLCL	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Oh, Holden, why are you so sad?	What can a person really say about _Catcher in the Rye_ that hasn't already been said? Everyone in the world believes that they are Holden Caufield, and so it seems like everyone should be able to enjoy this book. It is an quick and relatively easy read that has enough depth and feeling to keep the reader moving, and every once in a while, an insight that made me take a deep breathe. It is clearly not the greatest book of all time, but it is easy to identify with Holden as he feels isolated and alienated. It is fun to smile as we see him denounce a type of behavior in someone else, then immediately act in the way he just railed about. It is a good reminder of what it is to be a teenager, and how doing seemingly incomprehensible or destructive actions feels like the only way to fight back against a society that is conformist and authoritarian. It's too bad that the Holden Caufield we all possess passes so quickly from many members of human society. If we could hang on to just a little of his spirit, it might do us a world of good.	2002-08-19
US	42936898	R3N7RFK6MRCAO9	0767420489	732723199	How to Think About Weird Things: Critical Thinking for a New Age	Books	2	14	23	N	N	Good Premise, but Difficult to Read	I think that is fairly safe to say that the majority of people with good reasoning skills and the ability to think objectively will have no problem with this book's thesis. I certainly found it very easy to agree with most of the content. But I felt that the text was simply too basic to be of much use. The explanations it offers for how to think about weird things are more or less obvious in most cases. For example, I did not need to be told I should be skeptical of a miracle cure until there was good, scientific evidence in its favor. Most of the book is written in a vacuum, not being addressed to any specific &quot;weird thing&quot; but acting as a guide for how to address all strange phenomena. Maybe if this was being used as a textbook in a class, that would be fine, but for pleasure reading, it causes the book to get very dry, very fast. The times that the authors do address specific beliefs or events, I usually found the exploration of an issue to be too brief to be of much help. Do I agree that science is the best tool we have for finding out about the world? Yes. Should we be skeptical of things that seem paranormal or supernatural, or otherwise &quot;weird&quot;? Yes. The book is trying to teach what I believe to be the correct conclusions, but I am skeptical that many people will have the patience to read it all the way though.	2002-08-19
US	42936898	R3NTQNW0NQ6WPN	0140443487	81313790	The Analects (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	19	N	N	Surprisingly Relevent	I was surprised to find that I was often very interested in the topics within this book and Confucius' handling of said themes. Having read Plato only a short time ago, Confucius seemed like a breath of fresh air. His concerns are how to live a virtuous life and achieve benevolence. Unlike much ancient philosphy, many of the sayings have their impact undimished by time. In each book (consisting usually of about 3 pages) there would generally be at least two or three sayings that struck me as truly meaningful and pertinent. Naturally, there were also some that seemed out of place or irrational, but that is to be expected in any text which is so old. If one is able to mine the gold from the rocks, Analects of Confucius can be quite a rewarding experience. However, I found the introduction and essays in the back of the book to be superfluous and felt that they did not shed much additional light on who Confucius was or what his teachings meant, choosing instead to focus mostly on minutue that was mostly uninteresting to me. This book is not a long read, and almost certainly worth a curious person's time.	2002-07-11
US	42936898	R2QYG2FEHXT687	0060977337	407534724	Downsize This! Random Threats from an Unarmed American	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Upsize this book	If you are a liberal, you will no doubt enjoy this book. If you are not, you will no doubt find it juvenile and occasionally offensive. I happen to be the former, and thought it was a very fun, quick read that made politics accessible. Though sometimes it feels rather jerky, and I often found myself wishing that the essays were longer and contained more information, I nonetheless was compelled to pick it up every time I saw it lying around. It reminded somewhat of Al Franken's _Rush Limbaugh is a Big Fat Idiot_. If you're looking for fun, leftist rhetoric that won't leave you feeling too depressed, you've found it.	2002-06-24
US	42936898	R3E1PRORTZUPA1	014044582X	673517480	The Last Days of Socrates: Euthyphro; The Apology; Crito; Phaedo (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	4	18	N	N	Underwhelming	While this book was initially entertaining and relatively engaging, I felt that it drifted further from any sort of objective examination of ethics as it went on. While I did not agree with Socrates in The Apology, I could understand and respect his preceived duty to obey the law, but as he began to philosophize about the soul and its properties it seemed that he was building his elaborate castle on shifting ground. His love of analogies eventually leads him away from reality. He seems unable to understand that analogies are not always appropriate and that sometimes they can be flawed. Yes, much of what Socrates said forms the basis for many important institutions, but for the average person with an interest in philosophy, I thought this was tedious and often rather irrelevant.	2002-06-24
US	42936898	R19NM10TEXPUKN	0451627768	796780795	The Origin of Species (Mentor)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Darwinian Revolution	I picked up this book both because I am curious about how evolution works and for its historical value. I am glad I read it and would recommend it to others with a few caveats. I have a limited understanding of biology (basically what I remember from bio 101) and this book is definately heavy on scientific lingo. I would often be lost or have to read something many times in an effort to understand it. I also have been told this many of the ideas expressed in it are no longer valid in modern evolutionary theory. The book was written over a hundred years ago, so this is to be expected. Still, the book has much value. Many times as I found myself wondering what Darwin was talking about, I would suddenly have a wave of comprehension and feel very vindicated. All I'm saying is, don't give up on the book. As soon as you start to think it is not worth your time to read it, it will be. That was my experience, at least. If looking to skip the more time consuming parts, one might consider reading the introduction, the first few chapters, and the last chapter, and still probably coming away with a relatively good idea of the book's meaning.	2002-06-24
US	42936898	R2IPOLK3W5YPYH	0446600253	58351726	Bless Me, Ultima	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Engaging	Rudalfo Anaya's novel captures very clearly the dualities of life.  The innocence of childhood and its difficulty, paganism and organized religion, the need for personal freedom and the desire to please those around you/feel secure, etc.  I think the complaints about the lack of realism are not well founded. Anaya has not set out to write a realistic novel. The childhood events are seen through a sort of magical lens that allows them to morph into literal visions of symbolic ideas. And, yes, there is a good amount of Spanish in the novel, but it does not hinder a non-Spanish speaking person's ability to comprehend the action. There is a perfect blend of free-spirited adventure and fun, mixed with the difficult decisions that children must make concerning what they will believe and what ideology with govern their lives. It is true that the main character is extremely mature for a child, but we must allow Anaya a little poetic license to make the story complex enough to be truly engaging for adults. Anyone interested in an entertaining story that is not afraid to tackle big questions (particularly religous issues; why doesn't God listen?  Why do people have to suffer?) should enjoy this work.	2002-05-11
US	42936898	R3JCKNO2LFX2WD	0295955252	700329619	No-No Boy (Classics of Asian American Literature)	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Socially Important, But Lacking	There does not seem to be a lot of literature out there concerning the internment of U.S. citizens who happened to be Japanese during WWII.  This book helped me to understand exactly what happened better and gave me an excellent idea of what social situation was created by the camps.  It is a very noble novel and should be admired and read.  However, that said, the quality of the writing in this book is quite low.  Okada is a first time novelist, and it shows.  We are constantly awash in vague, emotional currents of the protaganist that do not seem to lead anywhere.  It can be a challenge to suffer through some of the passages, and at times the main character comes off as whiny.  Still, parts of the book are fascinating, such as the madness of Ichiro's mother who believes that ships are coming from Japan to pick her up.  All in all, I have to say that it is a disappointing read, but certainly not one that should be allowed to pass into obscurity.	2002-05-11
US	42936898	RLLZDEB82T4NG	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not an easy read	As nearly every reviewer of this book has commented, it is not an easy novel to get through. The plot meanders where it will and it can be difficult to even know who is talking at many points. However, there is method behind the madness. There are several extraordinarily moving scenes showing exactly how much slavery was able to cripple human beings emotionally, and also how even freed slaves were not necessarily united in solidarity all the time. My biggest complaint would be the distracting presence of the supernatural, especially at the outset of the novel. Also, it is very domestic, occurring almost entirely at the residence at 124 and focusing largely on the female characters. But select moments are so good that it is easily worth reading the book en toto just to experience them. Probably too difficult for young readers, or readers who do not like to be overly challenged by material. For those that want to put in the work, there is a serious payoff.	2002-05-11
US	42936898	R2H76OI79VPIR0	0940368188	445904840	The Qur'an: A Translation	Books	1	13	37	N	N	Disappointing	This review is not meant to offend religious people or to be a slap in the face to their religion... This book is very, very repititious, and its insights about God seem outdated to say the least. I read the Qur'an hoping to gain a deeper understanding about Islam and to maybe even learn something about the nature of any diety that might be out there, but the Qur'an helped in neither of these areas. This particular version has no footnotes of any kind to assist the reader. Believe me when I claim that unless you grew up in a culture that accepts this book as the word of God, you will have a difficult time reaching that conclusion by reading it. The two major themes are: (1) God (Allah) is wonderful, generous, and merciful; and (2) you will burn in Hell forever if you don't immediately agree that number 1 is absolute truth...  While I am bashful about completely panning a book that millions find to be wonderful, the honest to God truth is that reading the entire the Qur'an probably isn't worth your time.	2002-02-19
US	42936898	R8SKQK3L7PEDP	0684831546	635179965	Accordion Crimes	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Runs Out of Gas	Accordian Crimes is a wildly complex concoction by Annie Proulx that starts off amazingly strong, but starts to lag severely in the second half. When I first finished with the book, I was more than a little impressed, but as I've reflected on it for a week or so, my admiration has diminished somewhat. Reading much like a collection of short stories, the book is comprised of vigettes that are loosely tied together by an accordian that appears in each. The first 3 stories are like firecrackers going off in your ear. The struggles and tough breaks of the immigrants featured in these tales are startling and very compelling. The book's main focus is on examing how the ethnicities of immigrants play a part in the their new lives in America. However, the further we get into the book, the smaller the role of ethnicity and the more bland the storytelling. Of course the author is hinting at the idea that ethnicity dissipates over time, but that does not change the fact that the last few stories are quite difficult to get through. I think most readers will find their enthusiasm for the novel dissipating along with the the character's ethnicities.	2002-02-10
US	42936898	R1WDFDYO5YO692	0310906520	666617917	NIV Bible	Books	3	10	27	N	N	Passable, but Barely	This edition also could be called the cheapskate's Bible. I spent a lot of time with this book and developed a certain emotional attachment, but from an objective perspective, it is not even close to the best version to buy. The footnotes are virtually nonexistent and when things are footed it is generally of very little assistence. The NIV of course has a bit of a bias toward mainline Protestant Christianity since they are the ones who produced this translation. There are no introductions to the varioius books, either. The &quot;helpful&quot; articles are little more than standard propagandistic fare. For the best bet, check out the Oxford Revised English Bible instead. It has great notes that actually give some insight into Biblical thought. The only reason I own this Bible is because it was given to me for free, and though I admit that owning this Bible is better than owning no Bible at all, it's not much better.	2002-01-27
US	42936898	RWHCNHTH091F8	0451527372	327589516	The Iliad (Signet Classics)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Homer for Dummies	I am somewhat embarrassed to admit that as a junior literature major, this is the first time I have ever read The Iliad all the way through. Though I can't compare the Rouse translation to others, I can say a few words based on my perception of it. First, you'll notice that it is a prose, not poetry. This did not hinder the experience for me, but individual readers may wish to experience this classic the other way. I found it to be much easier reading than I expected, with the central characters easy to remember and follow. The story clips along rapidly and is rarely boring. The introduction states that much of the repetition that would be necessary for oral storytelling has been removed for the benefit of the reader, which I found to be a positive. However, there is still plenty of repetition of certain phrases (&quot;and darkness covered his eyes&quot; or &quot;rattling armor&quot; come to mind) and there is no shortage long lineages or lists of previously anonymous characters killed in battle. Still, it is worthwhile to get to know Homer and this seems like a reasonable translation to begin with.	2002-01-08
US	42936898	R2MIX3SNYA7M7I	0020236212	518122634	Solar Lottery (A Collier Nucleus Science Fiction Classic)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Good Warm Up	One of Phillip K. Dick's lesser read books, Solar Lottery is an interesing genre piece, but not much more than that. The book is full of alegorical/metaphorical content that works fairly well, but this short novel lacks the punch of his later work. For someone just discovering PDK, this book might serve as a good foundation, but compared to Valis this is small time. Still, better than most SF and certainly not a bad read. If you have a spare couple of days it is worth it to pick this book up. Especially engaging is Benteley's quest to find somewhere he can work that is not corrupt and his disappointment to find that neither the public nor private sectors can live up to his idealism.	2001-12-27
