US	43070342	R265UM0L73HOIG	0399151613	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Disappointed Austen Fan	I am in agreement with Bibliophile, below, who found the brief but lurid sexual references throughout this novel distracting and detracting from the potentially delightful premise of exploring the lives of five ladies and a gentleman brought together by the beloved novels of Jane Austen.     Praiseworthy items:  I enjoyed the subtle humor in some of Fowler's characters' off-beat observations, most definitely enjoyed the references to Ms. Austen's books, was, in fact, delighted, even, when I read an excerpt from Anne Radcliffe's Udolpho's Mysteries (quoted often in Austen's Northanger Abby).  Obviously Fowler knows her Austen.    Disappointing factors:  I spent some time trying to figure out just how Fowler's characters counterparted those created by Austen (as promised in some of the editorial reviews on the book cover), but failed to make any satisfactory connections beyond some very vague similarities (Jocelyn was apparently the \\"Emma\\" of the novel;\\" Bernadette, perhaps, the Elizabeth, though that was a stretch.  The others characters were lost on me.    Unforgivable elements:  It seems explicit, often degrading sexual episodes were thrown in here and there to possibly spice up the novel.  Austen engendered a genuine admiration in her literary fans without resorting to any such devices.  Need I say more?    My recommendation?  Skip it.	2005-06-22
US	43070342	R1NF133JNQX2X1	0440226295	69460434	McClairen's Isle: The Passionate One	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Best of the McClairen Trilogy!	Ash Merrick is one of the best tortured heroes ever created!  He's lived his entire life under the power of his cruel, murderous father, Lord Carr. He witnessed his mother's death at Carr's hand, was forced to take part in a bloody vendetta that was not his own, and then languished in prison for two years while his father lived a life of luxury off of his dead wife's riches.  Ash leaves prison a scarred man, outwardly and inwardly. There, the basest, ugliest part of him was unleashed, and he began to truly loathe what he had become.  What drives him now is his desire, at any cost, to free his younger brother from his own cell.  Far from the typical \\"rake,\\" Ash denies himself any pleasure or vanity, not only because of his singleminded quest to save his brother, but also one senses that he finds himself utterly unworthy and incapable of happiness.  It simply doesn't enter his mind.<br />Ash is sent to England to fetch his father's ward whom he has never met.  He knows not why Carr has shown a sudden interest in the girl, nor does he care...until he meets the lovely, innocent and spirited Rhiannon.  Ash, cynical, world-weary, and jaded, is bemused by Rhiannon's determination to believe him a charming gentleman as she draws out the soft, hidden part of him and binds him to her with a love he'd thought himself incapable of, and one so powerful that he feels he must protect her from it.  <br />The attraction becomes undeniable, but Rhiannon is about to marry another.  Ash, as her ward's representative, has been invited to stay in the charming community of Fair Badden until the happy nuptials.  Unable to resist, he accepts, and flames ignite between he and Rhiannon.  Ash comes to the determination that he must leave...until he realizes Rhiannon's life is in danger.  <br />Wonderful, rich storytelling with a very sexy, well-drawn hero, a likable, charming heroine, and an intriguing plot.  The romantic scenes are exceptional - equal parts tender and erotic.  Ms. Brockway isa true talent.	2003-10-20
US	43070342	R2T22PUC6WCSE4	1551666855	556664373	The Love Knot	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Gothic Revisited	Fans of gothic romantic literature will immediately recognize the Love Knot's premise; a sheltered but practical young governess travels to the desolate moors of Cornwall to teach the dark, brooding lord's grieving children. Lord Aubyn's wife's death is shrouded in mystery, and the book is chock-full of hints of spectre-like visions and mysterious, hair-raising whispers in the dark. Reference is made in \\"The Love Knot\\" to Anne Radcliffe's classic \\"Mysteries of Udolpho,\\" which seems to have inspired Ms. Brandewyne (Radcliffe predates the marvelous Charlotte Bronte, and reference is made to \\"Mysteries\\" in Jane Austen's \\"Northanger Abbey.\\") Many of the elements of \\"The Love Knot\\" were also remniscent of Victoria Holt's early novels.<br />The book had all the right gothic elements, (including the omission of descriptive sexual situations), but the author becomes almost entirely too carried away with her descriptives. There is also a bit of annoying redundancy (I lost count of all the \\"serpentine\\" roadways and the misty \\"mizzle\\"). Some situations seemed too contrived and poorly worded, and many paragraphs were comprised of strings of overflowing, superfluous, (often bordering on ridiculous) descriptions.<br />Having proffered this criticism, however, I do recall that Radcliffe's \\"Mysteries of Udolpho\\" was quite wordy as well; she could rhapsodize on the form and feature of, say, a mossy rock for several paragraphs. Bearing in mind that Radcliffe was the source of some inspiration, perhaps, for Ms. Brandewyne, I was able to overlook the extensive purple prose to a degree.<br />In sum, though it doesn't hold a candle to Holt or Bronte, it still might be worth a read for those who, like myself, love and miss the old gothics, as you will recognize many gothic elements.	2003-07-31
US	43070342	R1EHJPO7HMA08J	0553582216	27526243	By Possession (Medievals)	Books	2	10	19	N	N	A Feminist's Nightmare	I found this book to be rather droll and slow-paced.  Moira is a serf who is given her freedom on her lord's deathbed; (Moira's mother was his mistress.)  Addis, a knight captured during the Crusades and held prisoner for several years, apparently a sex slave to a pagan priestess, returns home after his father's death in search of his son, with whom Moira has been entrusted.  The boy is whisked away for his \\"protection\\" early on and seldom mentioned again.  Meanwhile, Addis is apparently obsessed with Moira and refuses to acknowledge his father's wish of releasing her from her obligations as a serf.  Moira attempts several escapes only to find herself in danger and rescued/captured by Addis.  The two share an unrequited love, as both know Addis can never marry the lowly-born Moira.<br />This novel lacks an interesting plot and doesn't give the reader any reason to believe Addis and Moira are destined for one another, other than the boorish \\"ownership\\" Addis holds over Moira's head.<br />In short, I'd skip this forgettable novel.	2003-06-27
US	43070342	R1PKBW8NE93TB0	0060096195	825975444	The Boy Next Door	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Charming, Engaging and Unique	This charming story is told entirely through Email correspondence between Mel and her friends, coworkers, parents, and her interesting and attractive new next-door neighbor, John. Though there are some character-insight hurdles inherent in an epistolary novel, Cabot overcomes them creatively and successfully, in my opinion, and creates a delightfully entertaining story.<br />Mel is the Page 10 gossip columnist for a modest New York newspaper. She's a smart and moderately successful midwest girl working in the big city with charming character quirks like habitual work tardiness, an obsession with weather anomalies, and a somewhat misplaced but profound sense of responsibility to her neighbor's pets after finding their elderly mistress unconscious on the floor. She's a loyal friend and a secret romantic with a wry sense of humor who enjoys simple things in life like drinking beer and wearing silly pajamas.<br />John is a criminal-investigation writer for a competing newspaper who reluctantly agrees to return a favor to Max, an old-college-buddy-cum-hollywood-photographer-playboy. Max wants John to assume his identity and temporarily move into his aunt's apartment in order to take care of her pets while she is in the hospital so that Max can romance his latest supermodel in Key West. John doesn't like the premise, but it seems relatively harmless, and Max did once save him from potential disaster. As far as paybacks go, it could be worse, right?<br />John happens to be from well-known wealthy family, but, to his Grandmother Mim's chagrin, he has opted to make it in the world on his own merit and hard work, get a real job, and live like a regular fellow. <br />John -- a charming, likable, all-around-good guy, who is rendered powerless by proximity to attractive red-heads, loves the Grateful Dead, and appreciates a good weather catastrophe himself--is charmed by his new (red-headed) neighbor, and the two begin to fall for each other.<br />In the meantime, it looks like Mel's former neighbor (whom she believes to be John's aunt) may have been the latest victim of the Transvestite Killer who has been terrorizing the neighborhood of late, yet she doesn't fit his usual victim's profile. Could it be that Mel was his real target? And what is Mel going to do when she learns the truth about John's real identity? He just hopes she'll hear it from him first...<br />A very sweet and entertaining, lighthearted novel. Read it. You'll like it. ;)	2003-05-11
US	43070342	RURLRTNQDY0HZ	1568652771	488840472	My Sweet Folly	Books	5	7	9	N	N	If you like classics like Bronte and Austen....	...then you will cherish and delight in this novel. It had all the feel of Bronte's \\"Jane Eyre;\\" a dashing-yet-mysterious, seemingly demon-driven man who harbors dark secrets and even darker fears is saved from a rapid spiral into black despair and even madness by his practical, plain, yet brave and generous \\"Folly\\" (Folie). I am genuinely perplexed at the handful of negative reviews and would venture to guess that some readers may have expected something more in keeping with what's typically offered in today's \\"historical romance\\" genre, and thus were frustrated with Ms. Kinsale's departure from the recipe. Though there are passionate moments of physical intimacy between Robert and Folie, the romantic aspect of the book is much more emotional and visceral and thus more satisfying, in my opinion, than the redundant sexual exploits favored by many authors. There is a strong element of sexual desire, but it is not the sole focus of the book.<br />Kinsale is a superb storyteller. She is, I believe, the only author today who truly presents an accurate portrayal of the Victorian era, its etiquette, verbiage, and complex social mores. This talent of hers is particularly evident in \\"My Sweet Folly.\\" <br />The characters in this novel are complex, yet endearing, remarkable, yet painfully human, and Kinsale weaves together a story of friendship and love, despair and madness, intrigue and mystery, and even subtle humor into a rich literary tapestry that was a genuine pleasure to read.<br />I beg to differ with the reviewer who was dismissive of the written correspondence between Folie and Robert which introduced the story and was the foundation of their relationship. I found the letters telling and deeply touching; one is able to witness what began as an innocent diversion for two lonely people grow not only into love, but into a lifeline for both Robert and Folie. I felt this method of writing was inspired! Robert and Folie, had they met in person, would never have had the opportunity to know one another on such a personal level, given their circumstances, let alone had the opportunity to fall in love; however, the premise of corresponding to a \\"stranger\\" on the other side of the world seemed to offer a certain freedom from inhibition which allowed both Robert and Folie to reveal themselves to one another in a way they never could have - or would have - in society.<br />The tenderness that develops between Robert and Folie in their correspondence is quite moving and romantic, (I re-read the letters several times) but their relationship becomes even more compelling when danger throws them together years after their ink-and-paper relationship ended on a heartbreaking note. It is then that both are confronted with the flesh-and-blood embodiment of their secret hopes and desires, and it is then that what began as a somewhat unrealistic romantic idealism grows into a deep, passionate need that neither foresaw.<br />If you expect more from romantic fiction, if you appreciate exceptional writing that can hold its own against the classics, and if you are ready for a memorable romantic adventure, do try \\"My Sweet Folly.\\"	2002-12-10
US	43070342	R1H924JSOLGAS4	0440236746	76364752	Bridal Favors	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A fun, light read	Justin is a master spy posing as an avid birdwatcher. Evie is the niece of Agatha, (the wedding planner in \\"Bridal Season\\" who eloped with a Frenchman) and is trying to keep her aunt's business afloat while Agatha and her new husband enjoy an extended, seemingly endless honeymoom. Evie hasn't had a single thing go right in her wedding planning attempts, and when she's asked by a wealthy American lady to plan a wedding extravaganza at North Cross Abbey, owned by Justin/master spy/birdwatcher, Evie determines to make it work and convinces Justin to allow her to refurbish and use his abbey for the wedding, cashing in on a favor he owes her from a brief but memorable encounter ten years prior. It just so happens that Evie's plans coincide beautifully with Justin's latest assignment - to receive a top-secret delivery at North Cross Abbey - and Justin believes the pre-wedding activity will help avert suspicion from him as he awaits the shipment. He agrees to Evie's proposal, and the two of them pack their bags and head to the old abbey...but they are being watched.<br />This is probably Ms. Brockway's frothiest and lightest literary creation, a witty and humorous novel that, while enjoyable, does not quite capture the essence of passionate romance that her other novels do. A pleasant and enjoyable read.	2002-11-02
US	43070342	R1U6D2E4D9WXL8	0425140040	667172080	For My Ladys Heart	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Extraordinary Romantic Literature	Melanthe is a wonderfully unique and fascinating character, a woman of great wealth, lands, and connection, who, in spite of and as a result of her wealth and position, is a pawn in the games of men. Melanthe learns at a young age that the wisest course of action is complete suppression of her true feelings and a stragegic mix of dominance and submission towards the men who hold her fate in their unscrupulous hands. Straying from this course in her past has led to tragedy and death. <br />Widowed from her aged husband from an arranged marriage, Melanthe becomes an object of obsession for the greedy, scheming and powerful Gian Navona, who has determined to take Melanthe as his bride. Navona is a vague, looming, mysterious presence throughout the book. The dark, intriguing Allegreto is Navona's son, whose duty it is to bring Melanthe and her fortune to his father. <br />Ruck is a mysterious knight without a name who has sworn his liege to the Lady Melanthe and exhibits an unwavering, sacrificial, (and secretly passionate) devotion towards her.  Ruck's fierce loyalty and obsession are the result of a complex manifestation of a memory of a small but significant act of benevolence Melanthe enacted towards him during a tragic episode in his life.  Over the years, Ruck has been forced to endure an intensely lonely, isolated existence resulting from a cruel and evil farce that detroyed his chance for happiness. His gratitude to Melanthe, his memory of her beauty, and his powerful loneliness have intensified his feelings for her. Thirteen years after their first encounter, chance brings Ruck into the service of his beloved benefactress.  <br />Ruck is a brave, strong, and noble knight who exhibits a certain innocence and suppressed sexuality somewhat similar to Samuel's in \\"The Shadow and The Star,\\" though for different reasons.  Melanthe, cool and regal, rumored to be a sorceress, a witch, and a murdress, among other things, is, in reality, an intriguing combination of strength and wit and frightened vulnerability.  <br />Circumstance forces Melanthe to place all of her trust in her Green Knight, who vows to protect her with his life, and she finds herself in the dangerously vulnerable and unwanted position of falling in love with this enigmatic man.<br />Kinsale's obviously extensive research into the history and dialect of medieval Europe, coupled with her knack for rich, satisfying storytelling, is a joy to read. The romance between Melanthe and Ruck is a beautiful, tortured thing - aching and uplifting, sensual and sweet, dark and light. Every character is fascinating and refreshing. A wonderful book I am sure I will read many more times.	2002-10-22
US	43070342	R3IPL7I3MKLUDD	0380753995	877433483	Seize the Fire	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Not My Favorite Kinsale	Sheridan Drake is a tortured military hero, idolized by the young and terribly innocent Olympia, the rightful princess of Oriens who seeks her hero's assistance in saving her kingdom from a bloody revolution. Though Kinsale's writing skill and style is always above average, the story takes so many twists and turns, it left my head spinning, and I was certain the original plot was completely forgotten until it resurfaces, rather unsatisfactorily, at the end. There are a series of Misunderstandings (Olympia thinks Sheridan has betrayed her by stealing her jewels and disappearing; Sheridan spirals into black depression when Olympia becomes engaged to a forgettable secondary character whom she doesn't really care for, etc.) The \\"spark\\" between hero and heroine just didn't seem to burn as brightly as the flames which fairly leapt between Maddy and Jervaulx in \\"Flowers From The Storm\\" or Samuel and Leda in \\"The Shadow and The Star.\\"  I still highly recommend the book, as Kinsale, I believe, is one of the most talented and gifted writers of our time, and though it's not my favorite, this book is still far better than the standard fare offered in this genre.  As a side note, I didn't overmuch care for the constant references to Olympia's \\"chubbiness\\" and \\"plumpness,\\" and I especially didn't appreciate the occasions in which Sheridan pointed these things out to her.	2002-10-19
US	43070342	R97CMJDY3A6EE	0380761319	790779890	The Shadow and the Star	Books	5	90	95	N	Y	A Keeper and a Classic!	Kinsale knows what's sexy, what's romantic, and what touches the human heart.  In \\"The Shadow and The Star,\\" a young Samuel is rescued and raised by a loving, aristocratic Hawaiin family  after a shockingly degrading, sexually-abusive childhood.  Mercifully, this traumatic past is not described in detail but, rather, hinted at through vaguely-described flashes of memory that torment Samuel.  Samuel, a beautiful, golden-haired boy, is given love, support, and a very comfortable lifestyle by his foster family, but he can never shake the feeling that he is unworthy of love and true acceptance due to what he feels is his overwhelmingly shameful past, and he lives in constant fear of saying or doing anything which might cause his \\"family\\" to reject him.<br />Samuel leads a very quiet, solitary, and friendless existence. One day Dojun, a mysterious Japanese immigrant working for the family, reveals himself to Samuel as a martial arts master and begins teaching Samuel his craft.  Samuel, so very anxious to please, and also finding satisfaction in the rigid control of the ancient discipline, a contrast to his inner turmoil, takes the lessons to heart and becomes a model student.  As Samuel grows to manhood, he abhors his increasing sexual awareness of women, jumbling and twisting these natural feelings with his degrading past, and is fiercely shamed, horrified, and haunted by his sexuality.  Dojun, who has become an increasingly powerful force in Samuel's life, encourages chastity in order that Samuel's every fiber is focused on the martial arts, and Samuel readily embraces such a lifestyle.<br />By chance, Samuel meets Leda, an impoverished-but-genteel dressmaker who, to Samuel's chagrin, sparks and sets flame to the embers of sexuality that Samuel has fought so hard to keep banked.  The two are drawn to one another, but to Samuel, Leda exposes the thing he hates most about himself.  He struggles deeply with his feelings for Leda and the celibacy he clings to like a lifeline. Eventually, unable to deny the attraction any longer, Samuel and Leda (both virgins) give in to their feelings, but they are exposed the morning after, and, in keeping with the times, Samuel is urged by his family to marry Leda, since he's \\"ruined\\" her.  Thrown together in such a way, Samuel must live with temptation every day, and as love blossoms, he grows more certain that, should Leda learn of his past, she would shun him and despise him.  His well-ordered life begins to unravel as past and present collide. Leda is bewildered by Samuel's enigmatic mixture of supreme self-control and wounded vulnerability, his potent, explosive sexuality and his self-loathing.  Slowly Samuel's heart is healed by Leda's unwavering love, in spite of his efforts to push her away.<br />Amidst this beautifully touching and sexy love story is an underlying current of danger, and we come to learn what a powerful hold the mysterious Dojun has on Samuel's life.<br />A unique, engrossing, and immensely satisfying read.  Extremely intelligent and well-written and quite refreshingly true to the times.ine. Eventually, unable to deny the attraction any longer, Samuel and Leda (both virgins) give in to their feelings, but they are exposed the morning after, and, in keeping with the times, Samuel is urged by his family to marry Leda, since he's \\"ruined\\" her.  Thrown together in such a way, Samuel must live with temptation every day, and as love blossoms, he grows more certain that, should Leda learn of his past, she would shun him and despise him.  His well-ordered life begins to unravel as past and present collide. Leda is bewildered by Samuel's enigmatic mixture of supreme self-control and wounded vulnerability, his potent, explosive sexuality and his self-loathing.  Slowly Samuel's heart is healed by Leda's unwavering love, in spite of his efforts to push her away.  <br />Amidst this beautifully touching and sexy love story is an underlying current of danger, and we come to learn what a powerful hold the mysterious Dojun has on Samuel's life.<br />A unique, engrossing, and immensely satisfying read.  Extremely intelligent and well-written and quite refreshingly true to the times.	2002-10-04
US	43070342	R1B8JU94LD73BK	0380761327	303727550	Flowers from the Storm	Books	5	5	6	N	N	In a Class By Itself	After reading \\"Flowers from The Storm,\\" I realize, with some chagrin, that I have meted out prior five-star ratings too easily, for \\"Flowers\\" surpasses them all. <br />Maddy, a devout and humble Quaker, and Jervaulx, a profligate, amoral duke, have absolutely nothing in common and no earthly reason to have ever even made one another's acquaintance, save that Maddy's father and Jervaulx share a gift in mathematics and become partners, of a sort, on a certain theorem. Jervaulx shocks Maddy's sense of propriety and Goodness, while the duke takes little notice of the prim and proper Quaker lady. <br />After Jervaulx's and Maddy's first face-to-face meeting, Jervaulx suffers a debilitating stroke, and the haughty duke is reduced to a man unable to speak or even buckle his own bootstrap, his memory vague and fleeting. Jervaulx's extreme frustration and confusion at his situation lead him to violent outbursts, and his greedy mother and sisters have him sent away to an asylum while they seek to gain control of his fortune.<br />Enter Maddy again. She has come to her Quaker cousin's \\"institution\\" in order to assist him while his wife is closeted away with their newborn. To Maddy's shock, she recognizes Jervaulx, and is deeply moved by his situation. Only Maddy can see that the duke is not the mad savage the others believe, but that he is ill. She feels this so strongly and certainly, that she believes it is a revelation from God and that it is her duty to help this once proud man. To Jervaulx, trapped like a caged animal and at the mercy of cruel, unfeeling jailers, suffering every possible humiliation and degradation, Maddy is his hope, his light, his salvation. <br />This moving, lovely novel is gripping and poignant. Maddy and Jervaulx's relationship begins as stark, desperate need and evolves to an all-consuming passion and abiding love. Jervaulx is, at times, so vulnerable that one aches for him, and yet we see glimpses of that proud, self-willed duke. Maddy struggles deeply to reconcile her Quaker beliefs with the \\"carnal\\" creature she becomes when she is with Jervaulx.<br />From reading other reviews, I had expected that the reading would be somewhat difficult, but Maddy's Quakerish speech is not at all difficult to understand, nor is it intrusive; likewise, Jervaulx's somewhat impaired, fragmented speaking is not hard to follow.<br />\\"Flowers from The Storm\\" is in a class by itself; superbly written, powerful, poignant, and passionate, and well worth a read...and then another.	2002-09-19
US	43070342	R3VWCUVIRTKP4J	0440236711	788144187	The Bridal Season	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Book Has Everything	A saucy heroine, a mouthwatering hero, a charming community, fun and wit and passion, this one has it all.  Letty and Elliot are both immediately likable and delightfully original.  Letty, raised as music hall performer, seeks to escape her increasingly nefarious boyfriend and finds a ticket to a tiny town called Little Bidewell, where she is mistaken for the eccentric Lady Agatha, duke's daughter-cum-wedding planner extraordinaire.  Letty, whose luck had just run out, can't resist such an Opportunity and gets swept up in what begins as a rather benign deception.  Soon, however, she becomes entangled in the lives of the charming Little Bidewell residents, including the sexy, chivalrous Sir Elliot.<br />Elliot is neither rogue nor rake, but a true gentleman; however, don't be put off if you thought only bad boys could be sexy!  He's one of Brockwell's most irresistable creations!<br />The story is chock full of Brockway's delightfully witty dialogue, and there are many humorous moments, but what begins as an undeniable, potent attraction between Letty and Elliot becomes a heart-wrenching and most romantic unrequited (almost) love.<br />If you're open to something a little different but still demand great, passionate romance, try this one!  I doubt you'll be disappointed!	2002-09-16
US	43070342	R3UCTO2NF8LLZF	0440221994	50078731	As You Desire	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Delicious, Heart-Thumping Romance!	What a fantastic read! I, like most of you, feel I'm a rather jaded, finicky reader, and I found myself completely immersed in \\"As You Desire,\\" growling at anyone who dared to disturb me while I devoured it!<br />Living in Victorian Egypt with her distracted grandfather, Desdemona fell in love with the irrascibly charming, sexy, life-loving Harry at 17 and threw herself at him one night. Harry, an opportunist with a ne'er-do-well reputation, is far from un-moved by \\"Dizzy's\\" virginal adoration, but panics and rebuffs her in a way that left her ego badly bruised. She is, after all, practically still a child. Three years hence, the two maintain a very enjoyable, teasing, close friendship, but with a wary undercurrent of deep emotional and physical attraction (they love one another!) Dizzy vows never to make a fool of herself again, certain Harry views her as he would a sister, and ever mindful of her shameful thwarted seduction; Harry, who's heart fairly beats out of his breast when near Dizzy, struggles to maintain a flippant, brotherly relationship with her. The intelligent, golden Dizzy would be horrified, or worse, pity him if she knew his shameful secret. <br />Harry is THE most romantic hero one could possibly ask for, and who could help but see why he fell so deeply in love with Desdemona? One moment he's grinning impishly, engaging in teasing repartee with Dizzy; next, he's heartbreakingly vulnerable as he watches, helplessly, as Dizzy convinces herself she's in love with his dashing cousin, Lord Ravenswood.<br />The setting, Victorian Egypt, is a refreshing one, and there is a dangerous enemy lurking in the background as well, adding a dash of intrigue and suspense.<br />Secondary characters are superb. Love scenes are pulse-racing and devastatingly romantic. *sigh*  <br />Other reviews have revealed that Harry's dreadful \\"secret\\" is dyslexia.  Though this may not seem worthy, in this day and age, of being a source of torment to Harry, please keep in mind that his \\"problem\\" was considered to be indicative of gross mental deficiency - even insanity - in this period in history.<br />Another fantastic read by Ms. Brockway!	2002-07-21
US	43070342	RVS6YS4K7FQ6X	0440223725	792718288	All Through the Night	Books	5	56	58	N	N	Kept Me Up 'All Through The Night'	Since I believe the basics of the plot of this story are amply and efficiently covered by the reader reviews that precede this one, I won't attempt to go into another re-cap. What I do wish to contribute, however, is what struck me most about this darkly compelling and riveting tale; namely, that Ms. Brockway displays a writing style superior to anything else offered in this genre, something fine enough to withstand the power of time and \\"trends\\" in romantic literature. There is an artistic finesse and subtlety in the dialogue, which would indicate that the author credits her readers with a certain amount of sensibility and intelligence. <br />Brockway writes a true period piece - no machismo \\"Fabio\\" lords, no saucy-but-virginal maidens. Nobody is a street scamp who discovers he/she is a bluebooded, wealthy aristocrat by the end of the book. Jack and Anne are far more complex and multi-faceted. Jack is dark, driven, and sexy, yet always very controlled; meanwhile, he's in complete turmoil inside. Anne is quite likable, yet human, with an aching emotional void which she seeks to fill by her reckless behavior. The story is equal parts tenderly romantic and darkly sensual. The \\"scene\\" in which Jack requests to hear his Christian name on Anne's lips gave me goosebumps!<br />The secondary characters are refreshing, unique, and fascinating, rather than mere foils for hero and heroine. <br />In sum, a fine, full-bodied read which has probably ruined me against any others that will follow!	2002-07-18
US	43070342	R10HWAOWF7Q7CL	006108252X	970548462	The Raven and the Rose	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Passion, Murder, History and More	Daniel Severin is a mercenary sent to the Hospice of Saint Bernard in Switzerland to \\"eliminate\\" the beheaded King Louis' little-known bastard daughter, Lorelei. Lorelei unknowingly holds the fate of nations in her hands, not to mention Daniel's life when she and the clerics of the hospice rescue him, unconscious and badly wounded, from a deadly avalanche.<br />Daniel finds himself in an unfamiliar helpless state, forced to depend on the very object of his deadly mission to heal his body, and he reluctantly finds his heart and his resolve softening by Lorelei's uncomplicated trust, friendship, and innocent charm.<br />Soon Daniel learns that someone else wants Lorelei dead, and, to his own amazement, he finds himself desperate to protect the one he was sent to kill.<br />The blossoming love between the tortured, jaded mercenary and the sheltered healer is a joy to read, a gentle love story that will touch your heart. This seemingly impossible and improbable love buds and then flourishes to all-consuming passion, but all the while Daniel knows that eventually Lorelei's innocence will be irrevocably shattered when she discovers the secrets he harbors.<br />The Raven and the Rose is one of Ms. Wiggs' best novels. Don't let the reference to Napolean lull you into a sense of \\"been there, read that.\\" The story is historically fascinating, powerfully yet tenderly romantic, and full of intrigue and mystery that will keep you turning the pages. <br />In the glorious Swiss mountains, The Hospice of Saint Bernard and its inhabitants will intrigue you. Could one of the priests who raised Lorelei from infancy be a murderer? The mystery deepens as circumstances lead the couple to France where they become inexorably interwoven into the politically tumultuous times and their love is challenged by deception and danger.<br />Wonderfully written and more than worth a read!	2002-06-26
US	43070342	R1P7337G0X3JA4	1551665344	131807925	Horsemasters Daughter (MIRA)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Somewhat disappointing	I count some of Susan Wiggs' novels among my favorites, such as \\"Passing Through Paradise,\\" and, most especially, \\"The Lightkeeper,\\" but I found myself mildly bored with this one. It began interestingly enough; Hunter, an embittered widower, seeks out a reclusive horsemaster to tame his crazed prize horse. Turns out, the horsemaster is dead, but his daughter, Eliza, claims to possess her father's skill and persuades Hunter to stay while she tames the horse. <br />Eliza is charming; a sheltered girl alone on a small island with a gift of healing. Hunter is a tortured alcoholic unable to connect with his children after the tragic death of their mother, and struggling to make a formerly successful tobacco farm into a sort of racehorse ranch.<br />Sparks fly between Hunter and Eliza near the beginning of the book, culminating in their making love on the island, but when Hunter persuades Eliza to return home with him to become governess to his troubled children, the story changes focus towards the children, Eliza, and horses, and Hunter strives, (rather too successfully), to keep Eliza at arm's length, certain of her unsuitability as a wife to him, though he apparently has feelings for her (which I found somewhat difficult to discern). Throughout the book, however, there are several references to his flouting the common convention of post-Civil-War southern plantation life, to the shock of friends and neighbors, so I found myself wondering why he'd give a fig what they would think were he to marry Eliza.<br />The characters of the two wisened, elderly black women who chose to stay on with Hunter's family, even after he freed all of his father's slaves, were scarcely ever mentioned after the first several pages of the book.<br />Worth a read, but not my favorite from this talented author.	2002-04-22
US	43070342	R1M11BHKFF56I	0449147738	356715974	The Enchantment	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Enchanting and Enjoyable	Emmaline is a wealthy investor, cold and untouchable. Larence, a bookish professor, is a dreamer in search of a lost city. Emmaline becomes Larence's financier, the fulfillment of a promise to an old friend. When Emmaline, who had worked hard to overcome the humiliating and degrading poverty of her childhood, loses everything, she decides to accompany Larence on his quest in order to protect her investment and, hopefully, make a fortune.<br />Larence is a compelling character unlike most romance novel heros. He's a fairly optimistic fellow, in spite of a rather sad childhood, and in spite of what he calls his \\"deformity;\\" a malformed ankle which causes a pronounced and painful limp. It is only when he's with the cold and beautiful Emmaline that he becomes acutely self-conscious of his physical deformity and his complete (I do mean complete) lack of experience with women. He was aware of these things, of course, but, in keeping with his good nature, had grown to accept them. Trust, friendship and, eventually, love blossom during their quest together.<br />I was somewhat surprised at some of the negative reviews because I really felt a true abiding loving connection developed between these two, who taught each other so much; Emmaline gave Larence the confidence and self-worth he'd been lacking and Larence, in return, taught Emmaline how to trust and to love.<br />There are some mystical scenes which require a brief suspension of reality, and one's appreciation, or lack thereof, of fantasy fiction will determine one's appreciation for these scenes. I was pleased that, though Larence's deformity sort of magically disappeared while in the lost city, it returned again back in the \\"real world,\\" (and made no difference to the lovely Emmaline.)	2002-04-12
US	43070342	R2U9GOG1TJB3KS	1551668807	8415065	The Lightkeeper	Books	5	51	51	N	N	Wow!	In purchasing this book, I paid more than I typically do for a novel, but it was worth every penny!<br />Mary, pregnant and unwed, washes ashore after a tragic boat crash. Though she considers herself \\"damaged goods\\" and has, as an Irish immigrant, suffered cruel and prejudicial attitudes, she's a very charming and lovable character, bursting with life and love and vitality.<br />Jesse, the reclusive lighthouse keeper of Cape Disappointment, finds himself a reluctant savior to Mary when he rescues her on the shore of Cape Disappointment. Jesse's pregnant wife died 11 years ago, and he has held himself, solely, to blame ever since, abandoning a carefree life of privilege and high society for a lonely monk's existence, deprived of any joy or human contact, as, for penance, he keeps watch, nightly, over the ocean which took everything from him.<br />Embittered, hardened, and self-loathing, Jesse's character is very deeply tortured (puts me in mind of Jane Eyre's Rochester) and fights desperately against the flame that Mary's unexpected presence in his life is rekindling within his heart while she recuperates in his home. <br />Jesse avoids Mary, but she seeks him out; he tries to put her off with his scowls and harsh words, but she continues to draw out the kind and loving man lurking beneath the surface against his will. Slowly, her companionship, affection, and love begin to thaw the heart he has deliberately frozen and hardened over so many years, and it terrifies him.<br />This book was so beautifully written and so very deeply touching and filled with such raw, human emotion, passion and desire, I still find myself reflecting on it, days after I've read it. I found myself rooting for Mary and Jesse from the beginning and still cheering for them in the end. Fantastic!	2002-04-11
US	43070342	R3MW82LU3I1W3N	0061009784	587141152	Far from Home	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Fine Writing; Didn't care for the heroine...	This was the first book I've read from Ms. Brockoven. First, I must preface this review by stating that I do think she possesses a fine style of writing - flowing, sensible. I also liked the premise of the book very much: Adam rescues Miranda after she attempts to kill herself, due to a devastating secret she harbors from the past. <br />I understood that Miranda, given what she'd been through, would be, at times, stand-offish, would find difficulty in trusting others, and would be reluctant in forging relationships. Still, I couldn't embrace her character. She seemed almost too bristly, often snobbish, and, in her \\"former life,\\" someone I found to be rather unsympathetic. I wanted to sympathize with her - really, I did - but I just couldn't muster up a suitable amount. I couldn't figure out what Adam saw in her, besides a ... attraction and his own kind nature and desire to help others. <br />I also found the characters of Matt and Susan (esp. Susan) annoying, whiny, and immature, and, again, couldn't understand what Adam saw in them.<br />Sorry to Brockoven fans, just a matter of preference.	2002-02-05
US	43070342	R3MF18LYJ4KDXD	0843948035	272015768	Thief of Hearts	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not Gaffney's best, but still worth a read	Nicholas, Anna's husband of only a few hours, is murdered on the night of their honeymoon, and, as it turns out, was apparently involved in some shady dealings involving Anna's family's ship-building business and illegal transactions with the Confederate Army during America's Civil War (this story taking place in England).<br />Anna is urged to pretend John Brodie (Nicholas's twin brother, a prisoner awaiting death for a murder he, of course, did not commit) is really her new husband, until Nicholas's murderer is found.<br />Brodie finds himself beguiled by his twin's bride, but Anna resents his hints that Nicholas was not as perfect as she'd like to believe.  Soon, however, the attraction between Anna and Brodie becomes undeniable.<br />Anna is a likable heroine; smart, kind, and average-looking.  Brodie is darkly handsome and very sensual, bitter and hardened, but with a more refined persona lurking within, needing only Anna's feminine touch and loving encouragement to surface.  The problem I had with him, however, was that he exuded just a little too much machismo for my taste.  There are a couple of attempted seduction scenes that were rather aggressive, and I was left to wonder why Anna didn't clock him!<br />The sub-plot of the mystery of Nicholas's nefarious dealings is interesting, though not quite up to snuff compared to some of Gaffney's other books.	2002-01-23
US	43070342	RC8Q9F36JIO3W	0451204794	222295787	Crooked Hearts	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wildly Entertaining, Excitingly Romantic!	Grace and Reuben are a couple of con artists who meet by chance while traveling (in disguise, of course: she, a nun; he, a blind spaniard.)  Hilarity and hijinks ensue as a result of one's belief that the other can't see, etc.  Meeting one another was an intriguing diversion, nothing more, considering the two would probably never cross paths again...that is, until their stagecoach is robbed, their \\"winnings\\" are stolen, and their false identities exposed in the process.  As help is sought from the authorities after the bandits are subdued, Grace and Reuben, fearing questioning by the police, make their escape on horseback with nothing but the clothes on their back and a small, mysterious chinese figurine that seemed to be of special interst to the robbers.<br />Back at Reuben's San Fransiscan apartment, the two decide to partner up, just for a scam or two, until they can recoup their lost winnings.  They develop a certain friendly-but-somewhat-suspicious camraderie, and, finding that they work rather well together, decide to see what they can get out of the figurine.<br />Grace and Reuben are wonderful characters - quite a refreshing change from the typical romance genre.  Both are somewhat jaded and devious, yet the reader sees glimpses of basic goodness and kindness - even innocence - that only desperate circumstances and hard luck has served to temper in both of them.  <br />The book drew me in immediately - action-packed from the get-go.  The dialogue was quite clever, with lots of quite funny moments, as well as a couple of intricately impressive con schemes (where DOES Ms. Gaffney come up with this stuff?)  Reuben and Grace are endearing, and I think any reader would soon find themself cheering for this couple.<br />Grace and Reuben develop a certain honor-among-thieves trust and friendship, and even grow to depend on one another (though they'd never admit it), and though there is a mutual attraction, they each inwardly determine to keep things neutral...untilthey find themselves caught up in the dangerous world of a deadly chinese mafia in Chinatown, the leader of which wants the little figurine quite desparately...and wants Grace even more.<br />Though the story is lively and witty, a deep, abiding love is developing between Grace and Reuben that is really quite touching and very deeply sexy.  Reuben, though a shaking coward where knives are involved, a devious con-man when the moment calls for one, and a comic with an appreciation for the absurd, is probably the sexiest hero I've ever \\"met\\" in the pages of a book!	2002-01-22
US	43070342	R3IPV0UORO2OS2	0843948019	599735053	Fortune's Lady	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Captivating	Cassandra Merlin has an unsavory reputation, no money, no &quot;connections,&quot; and no family to speak of, save an estranged father who has been accused of treason against his country. Needless to say, her prospects for a happy, comfortable future are, predictably, dim.  Such are the circumstances that lead Cassandra to agree to become a spy.  Riordan, a man of wealth and station, is Cassandra's &quot;contact&quot; in this spy game, and, of course, believes the worst of her in the beginning, which makes for a somewhat antagonistic relationship between the two, though a growing passion looms beneath the surface.  <br />Cassandra and Riordan take on spy personas of unscrupulous jades, which serves to compound the sexual tension between them.<br />The romance is exciting and the spy intrigue interesting, but the continuous misunderstandings between Riordan and Cassandra become just a tad overdone, as in one too many.  This is my only criticism of an otherwise very satisfying read from, in my opinion, a gifted writer.	2002-01-14
US	43070342	R3FAZUPFIPDTXJ	1568490631	973743929	Marnie	Books	5	42	44	N	N	A compelling and cleverly-written story.	A fan of Hitchcock's adaptation of &quot;Marnie,&quot; I decided to get the book from the library, and I was very pleasantly surprised.  George writes in the first person, and it is extremely insightful to be able to delve into the workings of Marnie's mind; her extreme emotional detachment, which has served to protect her from dealing with a long-buried, horrible memory and an imbalanced, mysterious mother; her ability to create different personalities to accompany her various aliases as a way of dealing with the moral dilemma engendered by her penchant for kleptomania; her deep-rooted, seemingly inexplicable fear of intimacy.<br />Winston's writing style was quite clever: The story is gripping and tumultuous, yet presented in a cool and practical manner through Marnie's voice, just as Marnie, herself, seems cool and methodical but brims with overwhelming pain and confusion beneath the surface.<br />Though there are some marked differences between the book and movie, they are quite similar in what I believe are the most important and interesting aspects of the story; namely, a woman rendered incapable (by suppression) of &quot;natural&quot; feelings due to a traumatic childhood event is able to meet and conquer her demons through the love of a patient and caring man.<br />I do heartily recommend the book as well as the movie.	2002-01-04
US	43070342	R2UZW5O4V7OE38	019283391X	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	An Absorbing and Rewarding Read	\\"Far From The Madding Crowd\\" is the story of Gabriel Oak who lives a simple life as a lowly shepherd on the farm of the woman he once, unsuccessfully, proposed to, back when he was a man of some substance, having his own prosperous farm until tragic events lost it to him. The main elements of the story are the unfortunate, often tragic ramifications of Bathsheba Everdene's thoughtless, vanity-driven actions, and the steadfast, selfless love she has engendered in Oak, who undergoes much anonymous, behind-the-scenes labor in order to make smooth the rocky path Bathsheba has embarked upon.<br />As one reviewer already mentioned, I do believe Hardy chose the unusual name of \\"Bathsheba\\" for his heroine because of her likeness to Bathsheba of the Bible; a beautiful, sought-after woman who unwittingly causes catastrophe for the men who love her. I will go further to suggest that Gabriel Oak's name was deliberate; he is a \\"guardian angel\\" of sorts who works on behalf of Bathsheba, and his character is strong, solid and dependable as a stalwart oak.<br />Bathsheba's vanity, poor judgment and thoughtless behavior bring about the destruction of two men she becomes entangled with, and the once vital and carefree girl grows into a grave and repentant woman who finally begins to realize the wisdom and worth of her long-ago suitor, now servant, Oak.<br />The novel is rich with pathos, romance, tragedy, and even absurdity (Oak's fellow laborers on the farm are a comical lot, and their hilarious conversations are a pleasant occasional reprieve from the dark world of Bathsheba and her lovers.)<br />A great Hardy novel with an unusually happy ending.	2002-01-04
US	43070342	R2674AZVIPN2JH	0843948000	879903988	Another Eden	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Heart-Racing Romance!	This is a wonderfully tender and swoon-worthy romantic novel. Sara is in her eighth year of marriage to monstrously unkind Ben, who uses their son as a pawn to keep his wife by his side. Sara nobly sacrifices all her naive young hopes/dreams of married bliss for the sake of young Michael.<br />Fueled by egomania and desperation to make the society papers, the wealthy Ben hires Alex, an up-and-coming architect, to construct \\"Eden,\\" a ludicrously lavish home meant to impress. Almost immediately, Alex senses Sara's unhappiness and unsuitability as a wife to the obnoxious Ben. What begins, for Alex, as attraction to and curiosity about this troubled woman, gradually changes to an all-consuming passion and unrequited love. Sara, of course, develops similar feelings for Alex, but struggles to keep such emotions at bay - her son's and her very own life depend on it.<br />The two are thrown together as Ben quits town on business, leaving Sara to oversee the construction of Eden. Alex soon makes his feelings known to Sara, but endeavors to maintain a platonic relationship, as Sara wishes. There are beautiful moments of Alex slipping -- telling Sara she's lovely, whispering her Christian name just for the sheer pleasure of hearing it, fervently pressing her hand to his chest in entreaty for being unable to keep his feelings silent. All the while, all-consuming passion brims beneath the surface.<br />Alex is a magnificent hero - gallant, protective, caring and sensitive, and equally masculine. <br />Gaffney paints a vivid and enjoyable landscape of a young America (1890's) and it is quite evident she has done her research, yet the descriptive narrative is never obtrusive or ill-fitting in the story.<br />Of all of Gaffney's novels that I have read to date, I recommend \\"Another Eden\\" most highly (a difficult choice, indeed, but there it is.)<br />Happy reading.	2001-12-04
US	43070342	R1VW0RNYDM5UPJ	0451405358	875962288	To Have and To Hold (Victorian Trilogy)	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Disturbing but well - written.	I liked the premise of the story - jaded, world-weary Sebastian, practiced seducer and charmer of women, rescuing troubled Rachel Wade from a life of despair (i.e. prison) and employing her as his &quot;housekeeper&quot; for his own amusement; however, I found the so-called &quot;forced seduction&quot; scenes quite upsetting.  It was rape, pure and simple, as Rachel was an unwilling participant throughout.<br />Of course, Sebastian changes his ways midway through the book and is chagrined (though not nearly enough) over his behavior, now desperate to win Rachel's acceptance, but I could not forget that he was capable of such dastardly deeds.  He even teased her later a few times about &quot;tying her up,&quot; etc., which I found revolting, given their past history.  I was also disappointed that, though Sebastian was aware that the townspeople were calling Rachel his &quot;whore,&quot; he did nothing about it.<br />I still must give Gaffney some points for her skill as an author, but I don't recommend &quot;To Have And To Hold&quot; very highly.	2001-12-04
US	43070342	R3MVSKPVX4V6FJ	1551660776	320428863	Montana Man (Harlequin Temptation)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Very enjoyable romantic read.	Quist and Lily meet under the worst of circumstances. Lily, fleeing her old life in her car, with her young baby in tow, panics when she finds herself lost in a snowstorm. At wit's end, she finds Quist thumbing a ride, his car in a ditch. Knowing she and her baby can't survive being stranded in this awful storm, she makes a rash decision to trust this stranger, give him a ride, and pray that he can help. Quist is, at first, prickly and sullen, but soon finds himself in the role of reluctant protector of Lily and her baby. Safety is found in a (miraculously well-furnished) cabin, but the three of them are stuck there until they can get help. The rest is romantic history. Very enjoyable and satisfying read.	2001-11-16
US	43070342	R658Y2YFRDDHW	0451202902	618527757	Sweet Everlasting	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great Gaffney!	Another beautiful love story by Gaffney - one of her very best and most poignant, I believe.  Carrie is impoverished and lonely, a lovely mute whose silence harbors a dark secret. Tyler is the new town doctor, sensitive and kind, lively and intelligent.  Carrie responds to Tyler's kindness with shy, yet unabashed adoration, but Tyler fights his growing attraction for this young innocent.  Of course she doesn't belong to his social class, but the scruples Tyler struggles with are more complicated than mere social convention; Carrie is fragile, innocent, damaged, and mute, and it would be morally reprehensible of him, he believes, to succumb to the passionate feelings she sparks within him and take advantage of her seemingly uncomplicated trust.  What Tyler isn't aware of, however, is that Carrie's heart is strong enough for the both of them.  A very tender and memorable story.	2001-11-15
US	43070342	RYHKVMWPTKE2I	0451405366	856292484	Wild at Heart	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Grrrrrrreat!	A (surprisingly) believable and downright fascinating story of a man found in the wild, thought to be a sort of &quot;missing link,&quot; forced to endure the loss of his freedom as well as his dignity. He is rapidly losing his will to live, until he meets Sydney, the woman who clearly sees what the others refuse to admit, that &quot;Ontario Man&quot; is an intelligent human male, like any other, with very real thoughts and feelings, made all the more real and honest by his lack of human contact. A simple, sweet gesture from Sydney's young brother can render him near tears, and his naked desire and affection for Sydney makes him touchingly vulnerable, yet somewhat dangerous, given his difficulty in grasping the social etiquette of the day (1890's). A grown-up Tarzan-and-Jane story, which is surprisingly quite touching. I read this book in a little over a day!	2001-11-15
US	43070342	R3VJMT9NVKS49J	0451405331	209808175	To Love and to Cherish (Victorian Trilogy)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another great Gaffney read	Another very fine read, which is what I've come to expect from Gaffney. What was most intriguing about this book was the heroine, Anne's, somewhat jaded, cynical and self-deprecating outlook on life(usually that's the man's role in a romance novel). The hero was noble and good, sexy and romantic, and the romance between Christian, \\"Christy,\\" and Anne is divine.<br />The anti-hero is not your typical brutish lout - a bit more interesting and well-defined than the outragiously monstrous, errant husbands in novels with similar plots.<br />In \\"To Love and To Cherish,\\" Gaffney respects the vicar's Protestant beliefs. Rich in textured descriptions of characters and the quaint village of Wyckerly, one never feels Gaffney is just filling up page space; rather, you are transported to another place and time.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-11-07
US	43070342	R284CAHLVWPD82	0380784920	415718973	The Last True Cowboy	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Disappointed	Kathleen Eagle is one of my all-time favorite authors, but &quot;The Last True Cowboy&quot; just didn't deliver.  Much as I hate to admit it, I agree with the reviewer who found the plot weak and the swaggering, beer-drinkin', boot-stompin' cowboy bit a little too cliche and overdone.<br />Though K.C. Houston mentions on two or three occasions that he's got some Indian heritage, American Indian life, itself, plays no part in this novel.  Of course, I don't mean to put Ms. Eagle in a box, but her vast knowledge and love of American Indian heritage gives her storytelling a very rich, almost spell-binding appeal that I found I sorely missed in &quot;The Last True Cowboy.&quot;  <br />I did enjoy the descriptions of the wild mustangs, but the characters of K.C., Julia, Dawn, Sally, Vern, etc., just didn't pull me in the way Ms. Eagle's novels usually do.  I couldn't wait to finish it so I could get started on the other Eagle novel I recently purchased.	2001-11-07
US	43070342	R31W456PM66WZK	0380771683	782228212	Fire and Rain	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Don't Miss This One!	Another wonderful American Indian novel by Kathleen Eagle which co-mingles two stories, past and present, into one unforgettable book. Cecily, a kind, young and guileless young woman becomes inextricably drawn into the American Indian movement of the '70's when she befriends a courageous young Indian woman and her world-weary but oh-so-irresistable brother, Kiah. <br />Cecily acquires a 100-year-old traveling trunk at an auction which contains some artifacts and writings of Priscilla Twiss, daughter of a White Indian Agent sent to educate the \\"savage\\" Sioux. Priscilla, drawn to the Sioux, comes to visit her father in the rugged, untamed west, and there she meets and falls in love with the proud warrier, Whirlwind Rider.<br />Both couples, though a century apart, share similar obstacles of restrictive social mores, racial hatred, and tumultuous circumstances in American Indian history, not to mention a suprising revelation which ties past to present.<br />Highly recommended reading for unforgettable romance, gripping storytelling, and fascinating American Indian History.	2001-11-01
US	43070342	R3BMGFBBWPUD06	0380776340	217240030	Sunrise Song (Avon Camelot Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another must-read from Eagle	I haven't been disappointed in an Eagle book yet, and &quot;Sunrise Song&quot; lived up to my 5-star expectations again.  Eagle weaves together past and present to create an unforgettable and poignant story of courage and love in the face of insurmountable obstacles.  The descriptions of the events which take place in the Assylum for Insane Indians, though fascinating and educational, is profoundly sad, which may be unsettling to some readers.  I turn the last page of an Eagle book with regret (that the story is over) but also with the deep satisfaction of a thoroughly good read and the feeling that I have learned a great deal about American Indian History.  The fluidity of Eagle's writing is a pleasure to read, and no detail seems forced or extraneous - never a dull moment.	2001-11-01
US	43070342	R2IM9G57KQTT2M	0380766884	251539391	This Time Forever	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Not your average cookie-cutter romance!	I found &quot;This Time Forever&quot; to be a very satisfying and refreshing romantic read.  The characters of Susan and Cleve are three-dimensional - very real, very human, and, in ordinary circumstances, perhaps even unremarkable.  It's the extraordinary circumstance which bring these two together -- Susan, a white woman, serving on a jury that convicts Cleve Black Horse, a half-breed Indian and former rodeo champion, of murder -- which sets the stage for a remarkable and touching story that will stay with you long after you've read it.  <br />Susan tries to cope with the knowledge that she may have helped send an innocent man to prison; Cleve, wrongly accused, has to pick up the pieces of his shattered life and learn to forgive and trust.  <br />Another extraordinary circumstance brings Susan and Cleve together again, and the seed of bitterness slowly and sweetly blossoms into friendship and then love in a most natural way.  A beautifully touching and unforgettable story.	2001-10-26
US	43070342	R1OJ9YZRCDI8RO	0843947721	9414257	Lily	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A book of substance; very satisfying read.	Lily and Devon find love against all odds. In spite of the personal secrets and tragedies that would keep them apart, not to mention misjudgments, mistrust, mistakes, and human flaw, their impossible but obsessive love won't let them be apart.<br />Devon is a passionate and impulsive man, much like his younger brother, but, where the latter's youthful impulsivity leads him into a reckless, happy-go-lucky existence, Devon's painful past colors his personality with a dark, brooding and almost self-loathing quality, creating a hero with great capacity for love, but in much need of redemption.<br />Devon's propensity to mistrust and believe the worst of Lily almost destroys both of their lives, but he reforms and his soul is (suitably) tortured by his near-obsessive love of Lily and the knowledge that he, himself, drove her away and nearly ruined her life.<br />The passion which ignites between Devon and Lily is all the more powerful for the fact that they, very humanly, make mistakes and face enormous obstacles, much of their own making, but overcome all for the sake of love, which makes their love richer, stronger, much more poignant, and more deeply satisfying in the end.<br />I found this novel gripping, wonderfully written, with very real characters. Though the sub-plot of the nefarious housekeeper and her lecherous son seemed to dangle, and in spite of a cheesey skinny-dipping scene in the beginning, I rated this book based solely on my enjoyment of it, and enjoy it I did.	2001-10-18
US	43070342	R2O6LT0QXRTV2D	0380784912	835310855	The Night Remembers	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Satisfying Escape	Angela Prescott, fleeing an unhappy past, finds herself in a big and often frightening new city trying to create a new life.  A charmingly impish Indian child of the street named &quot;Tommy T&quot; takes her under his wing. One night, when Angela meets trouble, Tommy enlists the help of his idol, the darkly mysterious, troubled Jesse Brown Wolf who lives in the night shadows and who finds himself, (reluctantly, at first) taking on the role of Angela's guardian angel.  These three misfits, drawn together by circumstance and raw need, find refuge in one another and, eventually, trust, love, and the makings of a modern-day family.<br />Ms. Eagle writes an intriguing and touching story with just the right mix of Indian folklore and magic.  The relationship between Angela and Jesse is exciting and romantic, and young &quot;Tommy T&quot; will pull your heartstrings and make you long for these people to come together as a family.	2001-10-02
US	43070342	RNAC4GOTOZYYZ	0451408993	271196785	A Star To Sail By	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bought by mistake - pleasantly surprised.	Yes - I found this book amidst a group of Barbara Delinsky novels and mistook it for one in a hurried trip to the bookstore! Now I'm only disappointed that Delaney doesn't have any other novels to her credit yet! I've always steered clear from time travel books (they seem to breach a level of believability at which I typically draw the line) but this was one of those rare don't-want-to-put-downs for me! A gentle, unhurried, sweet romance - and refreshing! Owen, a lovable, shy and utterly bewildered man from the past is easy to embrace as a character. No macho-man persona here; Owen is...sweet; comfortable yet intriguing. The book is done well and realistically (at least as far as rather unrealistic storylines go!) Yes, a bit too much dwelling on her past with the perfect Peter, but not too wordy for me - a professed lover of detail. Overall, a refreshing departure from the typical romance genre, and a heart-warming gentle romance.	2001-08-25
US	43070342	RJ9U3WOWYHBAN	0440225116	705722811	Secrecy	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Superb!	I truly enjoyed \\"Secrecy\\" and plan, now, to get my hands on every Belva Plain novel that I can. Maeve Binchy and Rosamund Pilcher lovers should find \\"Secrecy\\" immensely satisfying. Plain's writing style is flowing and enjoyable, and I found Charlotte to be a very brave but humanly likable character, and loved the sensitive Roger. The story took a very interesting twist near the end, when Charlotte and Roger's plans for Dawes Square were mysteriously vehemently opposed by Charlotte's father, himself hiding a shocking secret. The \\"mob\\" aspect of the story was a very minimal, peripheral part of the book.	2001-07-27
US	43070342	R1JSVSKLMKZ1GI	1551664895	903567336	Secret Of The Stone (Love Inspired)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Read like the plot of a porno	I typically love Barbara Delinsky novels, and I actually prefer some of her older work, (T.L.C., 12-Across) but was thoroughly (and surprisingly) disappointed with this one. An unromantic sexcapade.	2001-07-24
US	43070342	R2HZQQX0V4KQUH	0449149099	34194640	Waiting for the Moon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gripping	Couldn't put this book down. Ian has to be one of my all-time favorite romantic characters: Tortured, flawed, alternatingly obsessive and despairing/hopeful and ardent - the only aspect of his character which I found disappointing was that he was likened to a blond Adonis (he should have been as dark and mysterious, like his tortured soul!) <br />Ian, a once successful doctor, developed a sort of \\"sixth sense\\" after an accident, which caused him to experience often upsetting visual images when touching his patients.  Unable to cope with this so-called \\"gift,\\" coupled with the fact that he is labeled a \\"mad doctor\\" and shunned by the community, he shuts himself away in Lethe, a sort of mini-mental institution, his mother being among the residents.  Here Ian closes himself off physically and emotionally...until the day Selena, a \\"Jane Doe\\" nearly dead from an unsuccessful suicide attempt, is brought to his door.  Selena first revives Ian's passion for medicine, then his ability to feel and to love.<br />I was disappointed that Ian never got any words/images when touching Selena which would have revealed something of her past life - didn't feel it was satisfactorily explained as to why he didn't. I also would have liked to have seen some sort of happiness or peace for Johann in the end.<br />Though peripheral characters sometimes clutter a story, I found the residents of Lethe intriguing.<br />The whole Shaker Bretheren bit with Elliot was rather anticlimatic - and I felt that Ian and Selena fell into bed with one another a little too easily. Overall, though, I found myself struggling to put the book down.	2001-07-21
US	43070342	R9ZOQMRLKHP46	078622617X	926167001	The Outsider	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Pure, unadulterated escapism	I know the plot was outrageous - an alien! But I just could not put this book down. Okay, so it's not a literary classic, but for pure fantasy and fun escape, it's a guilty pleasure I thoroughly enjoyed.	2001-07-17
