US	43093648	R202O6I69QYETK	0275959147	277281525	The U.S. Media and the Middle East: Image and Perception (Contributions to the Study of Mass Media and Communications)	Books	1	19	50	N	N	The U.S. Media and the Middle East	In a display of remarkable consensus, all eighteen chapters of &quot;The U.S. Media and the Middle East&quot; argue that the American \\"public has a grossly distorted view of the Third World\\" in general, the Middle East in particular, and Arabs and Iranians most of all.  Author after author flays the press for its exaggerations, inaccuracies, and falsehoods.  Editors, editorialists, reporters, movie makers, and even cartoonists come in for a severe tongue lashing.  It's as though every author had been given the ideological script in advance, then told to flesh out with details.<br />But wait.  Is the American press really all that bad?  One author, Mahboob Hashem (an assistant professor of communications at Fort Hays State University in Kansas) combed through all of Time and Newsweek for a four-year period, 1990-93 and found the coverage predictably wretched (\\"stereotyping Arabs and portraying them as backward, terrorists, camel jockeys, and the like\\").  But then Hashem usefully summarizes seven main themes he found in the weeklies' coverage.  These bear noting, for they will strike most Americans as reasonable:  \\"Middle East region in decline; fundamentalist movement growing; democracy lacking; Arab unity a facade; Arabs live in the past; slavery exists in parts of the Arab world; and political climate changing\\" (that is, rejectionists weakening, peace process taking hold). Maybe, just maybe, the media has the story basically right and these professors of communications, media studies, and public relations have it wrong.  Maybe too, professors of communications should stay away from the Middle East.  (A welter of errors reinforces that notion, my favorite being \\"King Saddam Hussein).<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1995	2001-08-14
US	43093648	R3CAYMBTG3SOSU	0231070683	860068744	Russia and A Borderland In Transition Azerbaijan (Engineering Process Improvement)	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Russian and a Divided Azerbaijan	Azerbaijan, Swietochowski rightly notes, is \\"the quintessential borderland,\\" being Turkish and Iranian, Sunni and Shi`i, Muslim and Christian, Russian and Middle Eastern, European and Asian.  He also notes its other points of interest.  Falling under Russian rule from 1804 on, Azerbaijan stands out as the first part of the Middle East brought under the rule of a modern European colonial power. Having been divided into two parts (Russian and Iranian) since 1828, it is the nation that has by far the longest endured the strains of split development. <br />  Writings in English on Azerbaijan are meager and not of the highest quality.  Russia and Azerbaijan improves matters by helping to make sense of the country's history, but its account is limited to coverage of the northern (i.e., Russian) part and to a dry, top-down history (for the Russian imperial period the author relies inordinately on literary magazines).  <br />Current interest in Azerbaijan stems from its dramatic return to history as a vital pivot between Russia, Turkey, and Iran; as a newly important oil exporter; and as the Armenians' opponent in a vicious war since 1988.  Contemplating the Turkish-Iranian rivalry for influence over independent Azerbaijan, the author foresees Turkey connecting Azeris to the larger world; but Iran, because of its Islamic emphasis and its inclusion of souther Azerbaijan, will have a greater impact on their evolving national identity. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1995	2001-08-14
US	43093648	RHDFQCJWXNJ0R	9004099190	260019227	Ismet Inonu: Turkish Democrat and Statesman (SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL STUDIES OF THE MIDDLE EAST AND ASIA)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Ismet Inönü:  The Making of a Turkish Statesman.	Atatürk (1880-1938) is one of the most renowned individuals of his time, and rightly so, for he founded the modern state of Turkey and created one of the very few ideologies not just to endure the century but to have considerable successes to its credit.  Turks celebrate his accomplishments to his day, with his face of the money and on portraits throughout the country. His legacy is especially powerful in the military officer corps; according to one account, &quot;It would not be an exaggeration to say that cadet-officers hardly spend an hour without mentioning his name.&quot;  Even in English, many volumes of biography celebrate his life.  <br />But what of his No. 2, Ismet Inönü (1884-1973)? Inönü served Atatürk as the chief of staff who helped win his most decisive battles (against the Greeks), as diplomat in his most important treaty (Lausanne, 1923), as prime minister during his entire presidency (1924-38), and then as his successor as president (1938-50), later to return again to power as prime minister (1961-65).  In a first-class biography, Heper (a professor at Bilkent University in Istanbul) performs the important service of recalling this key figure's life from the wrongful obscurity into which it has fallen.  Heper finds there is much to admire in his biographee, calling him a pragmatist, an optimist, and a &quot;statesman par excellence.&quot;  He particularly praises the intelligent and realistic way Inönü guided the country from Atatürk's benevolent despotism to a multi-party democracy whose first election he lost and thereupon gracefully went into the opposition; indeed, Inönü went so far as to call his defeat his &quot;greatest victory&quot;).  Heper quotes one assessment that Turkey has undergone three revolutions this century, a national one led by Atatürk, a democratic one led by Inönü, and an economic one led by Turgut Özal; he then adds that Inönü's role was larger than this implies, having had a direct hand in the first and having helped to pave the way for the third.  He deserves this excellent biography. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R19N1INPMHZBVP	0691002541	191504719	Syria's Peasantry, the Descendants of Its Lesser Rural Notables, and Their Politics	Books	2	8	43	N	N	Syria's Peasantry	Batatu, emeritus professor at Georgetown University, has now published two similarly large tomes dealing with a Middle Eastern state laboring under a radical regime.  Both have long, obscure, and pedantic titles, a vaguely Marxist outlook, and a content that manages to be simultaneously fascinating and infuriating. Fascinating because Batatu has spent decades unearthing, compiling, and comparing data.  Here is the place to find a discussion of the electrification of the Syrian countryside, Asad's personality, the evolution of the Ba'th Party, or the various portrayals of peasants by Muslim and Western authors.   Infuriating because, as Batutu acknowledges, his study &quot;does not seek to prove or disprove any particular thesis or draw from the accumulated evidence any general theory.&quot; Instead, the author is quite content to ferret out the information and leave at the reader's doorstep, for him to make of it what he will. <br />Infuriating too because the book meanders without disciplined from subject to subject, without logic or structure.  It does so on the macro level, with two sections devoted to the Syrian peasantry and two to the regime of Hafiz al-Asad - and no explicit connection between them other than the fact that Asad is &quot;Syria's first ruler of peasant extraction.&quot; It also does this on the micro level, with one subject tumbling on top of another (Sufism as a source of political quietism among peasants; why mountaineers resort to force more than plains-dwellers; the appeal of communism to peasants). <br />Despite Batatu's disavowal of &quot;any general theory,&quot; his choice of subject matter does point to his arguing on one side in the great debate of modern Syrian history:  Does the character of the Asad regime derive from its rural or its 'Alawi religious background?  Batatu's opus represents a major, if diffuse, effort to prop up the increasingly unsupportable rural thesis. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2K8Q8HUXB5JRQ	0813016010	517033737	Israel's Place in the Middle East: A Pluralist Perspective	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Israel's Place in the Middle East:  A Pluralist Perspective	The &quot;pluralist perspective&quot; of the subtitle refers to the author's belief that &quot;Israel can-and to a certain extent already has-become an integral part of the [Middle East] region.&quot; Rejwan, an Israeli born in Baghdad and long resident in Jerusalem, argues for the existence of an historic Jewish-Muslim amity:  &quot;whenever the Crescent had hegemony, the lot of the Jews began to improve.&quot; Antisemitism he deems &quot;an exclusively Christian phenomenon&quot; that even today does not exist among Muslims. What differences do exist between Jews and Muslims are &quot;strictly political, having nothing whatever to do with Judaism.&quot; He argues that Israel should be seen as a Middle Eastern country, not a misplaced part of Europe.  And he looks forward to &quot;a postnationalist Middle East&quot; in which the petty passions of today give way to &quot;the day when Jews prefer to live in an Arab society rather than in an Israeli society.&quot; <br />&quot;What planet does the author live on?&quot; readers might ask on reading this rosy-tinted portrayal of Jewish-Muslim relations and Israel's potential friendship with its neighbors.  The author keeps alive the slightly anti-Zionist disdain of Iraqi Jews who continue to think, despite all, that they would have been better off without Jewish nationalism, which they view as a European movement imposed on them. Rejwan hopes to return to something like the Baghdad of his youth, wherein Jew and Arab prospered side by side. While acknowledging this to be a &quot;pipe dream&quot; at the present time, he still cherishes his memories. Credit the author's literate and sophisticated argument with making this anachronistic argument as credibly as can be done.<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R3F8P5WI89WZ56	0812216571	154844955	Unbowed: An Algerian Woman Confronts Islamic Fundamentalism (Critical Authors and Issues)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Unbowed:  An Algerian Woman Confronts Islamic Fundamentalism	Born in 1958, a red-headed, highly-educated and fiercely secular Berber, Messaoudi has established herself as one of Algeria's bravest and most articulate speakers of truth.  In a series of interviewers with a French journalist, capably translated into English, she presents a pungent, invaluable first-hand exposé of the Islamist challenge in her country. Its every-day texture imbues her account with a feel for living in an Islamist tyranny-such as the incident of a primary school teacher who requests students to bring in corks for a practical experiment.  When the children oblige, it turns out there is no experiment-only a trap; the teacher asked for the corks to find out whose families drink wine, then he launched into a violent diatribe against their miscreant parents for not living by Islamic law.  A freethinker from an early age (as a teenager, she decided against prostrating herself during prayers, instead adopting a yoga-style position), Messaoudi does not mince words. She despairs about the descent of Algeria into what she calls &quot;fundamentalist barbarism&quot; and aruges that the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), Algeria's main Islamist organization, has &quot;absolutely all the classic ingredients of totalitarian populist movements.&quot; Contrary to most Western analysts of Islam, she discerns an &quot;Islamist International&quot; along the lines of the Communist International. In a particularly powerful analogy, she states &quot;The veil is our yellow star&quot; (even if she does stretch the analogy too far in arguing that the FIS obsession with women is &quot;exactly like&quot; Hitler's obsession with Jews). Were the Islamists to take power, she fears they would &quot;clear the country of all the people who really bother them,&quot; which she assumes will be a very large group indeed.  Like many Algerians, Messaoudi blames the Islamist rise in large part on the purposeful scheming of the dictatorship that ruled the country from independence in 1962 until the crisis in 1992. She argues that many of its steps, from introducing the Arabic language in schools to not cracking down on FIS, eased the Islamists' path.   Messaoudi has her foibles, to be sure, sympathizing with Saddam Husayn and asserting that Washington was &quot;completely responsible&quot; for Scuds falling on Tel Aviv. But she emerges from these pages as a highly attractive intellectual, a heroine made necessary by the horrors of her country's recent history. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1JJ0VCLRVMXNR	0520229185	661396759	Between Memory and Desire: The Middle East in a Troubled Age	Books	3	15	35	N	N	Between Memory and Desire	In a calm and essayish sort of way, unbeholden to footnotes or fellow scholars, unbound by strict organization, he takes up some of the most difficult and persistent issues of the modern Middle East - the demographic and economic base, authoritarianism, pan-Arabism, &quot;crazy states,&quot; military dictatorship, the role of Islam in politics - and analyzes them with intelligence and insight. Musing on three decades plus of studying the Middle East, Humphreys dares to assert the truths that so many of his fellow academics neglect, though he does so in the gentlest and most constructive manner.  He takes up many themes; here is one, the dominant role of military dictatorship. Autocracy, Humphreys establishes, is the region's deepest and perhaps oldest dilemma.  Already the warlords who quite rapidly took over from the Prophet Muhammad's successors lacked a sense of lawfulness. In the era A.D. 850-1250, for example, the &quot;crucial political problem&quot; facing those warlords was legitimacy - &quot;some convincing reason (beyond brute force) why his subjects should obey him and his rivals should respect his right to exist.&quot; Sound familiar?  It should, for the Middle East, the world's least democratic region, still grapples with the same demons (and they have names like Qadhdhafi, Asad, and Saddam).   Middle Eastern populations, whether centuries ago or today, respond to this unhappy reality by withdrawing their allegiance from the authorities and turning instead for solace in the realms of religion and family life.  This leads to a peculiar but widespread situation in which &quot;Arab societies seem to regard their governments as an alien entity; they endure them, and they wait for them to go away.&quot; Trouble is, that stability becomes an end itself and has a fiercesome price. The preoccupation with staying in power means other goals - economic development, civil society, cultural florescence - are sacrificed.  Take economics, where warlordism turns out tobe the single greatest obstacle to advancement:  &quot;Only governments that enjoy the confidence of their citizens,&quot; Humphreys rightly observes, &quot;can really take the steps needed&quot; to enable growth. The Arabic-speaking countries not enjoying civil society, the rule of law, or many of the basic freedoms, they are falling ever-further behind in the brutally efficient global marketplace:  &quot;not one Middle Eastern state (with the partial exception of Turkey and of course Israel) has followed the only economic growth strategy that has worked since World War II - namely the export-oriented production of high-value-added manufactures.&quot; As a result, &quot;there is not one Middle Eastern manufactured item that can be sold competitively on world markets.&quot; <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R6YO3G98MZOCI	1573922471	14914026	Jihad in the West: Muslim Conquests from the 7th to the 21st Centuries	Books	3	47	57	N	N	Jihad in the West:  Muslim Conquests	After a tumultuous publishing history in Great Britain, where Little Brown (UK) accepted Jihad in the West, announced it in its spring 1997 catalogue, and copyedited the work, only to turn it down under fear of fundamentalist Muslim pressure,  the book has now appeared in the land where speech truly is free.  Fregosi, an Anglo-French journalist with an historical bent (a previous book is on the Napoleonic period), writes engagingly and does not shy away large statements or controversy.  His is, as he rightly claims, &quot;the first history of the Muslim wars in Europe ever published,&quot; or at least the first to cover the whole of this topic from its origins until today.  Fregosi starts with early Arabian assaults on Byzantium and its Mediterranean islands, covers the Iberian and Sicilian episodes, and gives extended treatment to the Ottoman Empire.  He notes the waning of jihad against Europe for a hundred-plus years from the mid-nineteenth century and then its resurgence starting in 1979 with the Islamic Republic of Iran (this time in the form of terrorism).  In addition to spinning a good yarn, Fregosi has a political point to make, though one he mars through overstatement:  that the Muslim war effort against Europe has been sustained almost without cease through the centuries and that it deeply and adversely influenced the course of European history.  He concludes that Europeans are more sinned against than sinners, for their own aggressive wars vis-à-vis the Muslims lasted less than two centuries (1096-1270).  But the author here adopts an overly narrow view of European aggression, ignoring (because it was not religiously inspired) the vast and enormously important phenomenon of modern European imperialism.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1XHJ3Z2X7548I	0195116224	811305053	Liberal Islam: A Sourcebook	Books	2	26	65	N	N	Liberal Islam: A Sourcebook.	Liberal Islam?  The editor pre-empts the skepticism in his very first sentence, noting that this &quot;may sound like a contradiction in terms.&quot;  But, he goes on knowledgeably to show, such a phenomenon does actually exist, even if it is, in his terms, a &quot;neglected tradition&quot; whose power peaked before 1920 and whose exponents have since then been disproportionately the victims of violence.  The first selections in this anthology date from the 1920s but the great majority (20 out of 32) of selections date since 1980. Kurzman does an exemplary job of selection-the excerpts are both interesting and important-and of finding writings from across the Muslim world, not just the Middle East.  Authors include both those who are the household names of Islamic thinkers (Fazlur Rahman, Mahmoud Mohamed Taha) and others who are deeply obscure (Rusmir Mahmutcehajic, Ali Bulaç).<br />By &quot;liberal Islam,&quot; Kurzman means a strain of thought that takes Islam seriously and generally subscribes to the following six views:  &quot;opposition to theocracy, support for democracy, guarantees of the rights of women and non-Muslims in Islamic societies, defense of freedom of thought, and belief in the potential for human progress.&quot; (The sourcebook then presents readings under these six rubrics.)  The categories are certainly sensible, but some of the writers Kurzman chooses to include do give pause:  Rachid Ghannouchi, the leader of the Tunisian Islamists and a man excluded from the United States for his role in fomenting violence against the government of his home country? 'Ali Shari'ati, the theorist of the Islamic revolution in Iran? Yusuf al-Qaradawi, the Islamist who told an audience in Kansas City in 1989, &quot;On the hour of judgment, Muslims will fight the Jews and kill them&quot;  and whose book, The Permitted and the Prohibited in Islam,  was banned in France? The editor should have both brought a greater dose of skepticism to his readings and looked beyond the formal texts to see what else his authors were doing and saying. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	RXGOFBLPKLGLQ	0964747413	275540525	Common Ground on Iraq-Kuwait Reconciliation	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Common Ground on Iraq-Kuwait Reconciliation.	The Washington-based organization Search for Common Ground breaks new ground by bringing together Faraj, a Kuwaiti strategist, and Kubba, an Iraqi opposition leader, to explore the possibilities of resolving their countries' differences, post-Saddam Husayn.  To ensure more than a casual conversation, the two men agreed &quot;to engage in a year-long process of facilitated consultation,&quot;during which they repeatedly presented their results to seminars of specialists.  <br />The seemingly cheery results of this project are premised on Kubba's willingness to concede Kuwait's right to exist as an independent state.  After this, it's just a matter of working out the details.  But, as in the parallel case of the Arabs and Israel, a quick acceptance of the enemy's right to exist is not enough.  The Iraqi opposition no less than the Iraqi population as a whole needs to prove that it has thoroughly, explicitly, and permanently renounced its ambitions to destroy a sovereign state.  Unfortunately, as in the case of Israel, so too in this one much reticence remains, at least judging by Kubba's remarks.  The reader must be very alert to find his brief and equivocal acceptance of Kuwait;   the rest of his lengthy analysis consists in large part of demands on Kuwait (for access to the sea, economic aid, and a dismantling of its security apparatus).  Even more alarming, Kubba finds that Kuwaiti connections to the United States &quot;may irritate or even threaten Iraq,&quot; and so demands the removal of American troops.  Overall, Kubba implies that Kuwait has as much responsibility as Iraq for past problems and so equal responsibility for their repair.  Insofar as all this represents Iraqi oppositional thinking, it is not a good sign. His approach exudes reluctance and holding out until Iraq is again strong, when its rulers can at their leisure reassess their Kuwait policy.  <br />The Middle East's twentieth-century experience suggests that conflicts there end not due to good will but exhaustion and misery.  &quot;Peace&quot; means not harmony but mutual deterrence.  Reading between the lines of Kubba's analysis shows that an apparent acceptance of Kuwait on further reflection in fact represents continued hostility.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2M2JQ2NLS8SZV	0714642088	512069952	British Military Intelligence in the Palestine Campaign, 1914-1918 (Cass Series--Studies in Intelligence)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	British Military Intelligence in the Palestine Campaign	In 1921, just three years after the end of World War I, Great Britain's director of Military Intelligence made the astounding statement that General Allenby had won in Palestine because he &quot;knew from his intelligence every disposition and movement of the enemy.  Every one of his opponents' cards was known to him, and he was consequently able to play his own hand with the most perfect assurance.  In those circumstances victory was certain.&quot; Sheffy's precise and far-ranging research pieces together in masterly fashion just how Allenby benefited from such extraordinary information about his foes.  In the process, he shows not only how a key military campaign was fought and won, but also how the modern intelligence service took shape in a spontaneous and amorphous fashion.  Along the way, Sheffy demonstrates the near-uselessness of human intelligence (spies, travelers, prisoners of war, et al.), dismissing the whole lot with a quote from the time:  &quot;What can agents find out about the intentions of Governments that have no notion what their own intentions are?&quot; In contrast, technical means (air reconnaissance, radio interceptions) proved highly valuable. He establishes how the latter gave the British a much better idea of tactics than of grand strategy, and how they paid heavily for their wrong guesses about the latter. Despite their fair share of mistakes, the British intelligence operatives made a very credible start at bringing a &quot;hitherto hidden dimension . . . into the forefront of modern warfare.&quot;  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1T9NCLNBLTYW	0847685527	896197155	Turkey's Kurdish Question (Carnegie Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict)	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Turkey's Kurdish Question.	In the heat of the United Nations debate in 1948 surrounding the decision to create a Jewish state, Warren Austin, the American ambassador, vented his frustration by calling on Arabs and Jews to &quot;settle this problem in a true Christian spirit.&quot; Fifty years later, his appeal is still laughingly remembered.  Barkey and Fuller, two specialists on Turkey, write nothing so silly in their attempt to find ways for Turks and Kurds to make peace, but their recommendations do have a comparably provincial quality:  basically, they want those two peoples to solve their problem in what might be called &quot;a true American spirit.&quot;  That is, after a spirited survey of the Kurdish issue, they offer a host of recommendations, every one of which is reasonable, desirable, sensible-and ineffably American.  Recognize the Kurdish language, they say, end government propagandizing, give up attempts to establish a unitary ethnic polity, redress economic ills, reduce the security presence, legalize the Kurdish political parties, withdraw the military from politics, permit greater freedom of expression, decentralize the government, and experiment with federalism.  <br />Even so, the authors do not guarantee these demanding steps will do the trick, conceding only that they offer a possibility for the present Turkish state to remain intact. But Barkey and Fuller probably overestimate the chances of Americanizing Turkish politics, just as they underestimate the staying power of the Turkish Republic.  The region's states (like Lebanon and Iraq) may be held together with string and sealing wax, but they do seem to survive, at no matter what the cost.  Even without fulfilling our authors' recommendations, today's Turkey seems likely to remain whole.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R29LLOF10I1ATO	0375757465	360329283	Passionate Nomad: The Life of Freya Stark (Modern Library Paperbacks)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Passionate Nomad:  The Life of Freya Stark.	In a captivating book about one of the great English-language interpreters of the Middle East, Geniesse (a novelist and former New York Times reporter) draws on the huge and expressive bulk of Freya Stark's letters to paint a personal and professional portrait of rare accomplishment.  Stark (1893-1993) lived a tumultuous, semi-privileged, and constricting early life, which she broke out of by learning Arabic and then in 1927 sailing off to Lebanon.  She quickly found her double vocation, as intrepid explorer and eloquent letter-writer, then pursued and built on these skills through two glorious decades, achieving best-sellerdom, fame, and the company of the high and mighty.  During the war years she even acquired a modicum of political influence. (That said, Stark's one sustained political effort, a British government-sponsored speaking tour to the United States in 1943-44, was a disaster, with her anti-Zionist message finding much attention but very little sympathy and she, late of Persia and the Hadramaut, finding little in turn to charm her in America's modernity.)<br />But if her public life was a roaring success, the private life was notably less so.  Two amusing chapters concern the &quot;three foolish virgins&quot; (about an episode in 1937-38, when Stark and two female scholars went off to Yemen) and her only marriage (at age 54) to a man who very soon after the wedding revealed his homosexuality (or rather, she could no longer pretend not to see it). In general, with the advancement of Stark's career, her biography becomes more interesting. But early or late, the evocation of a world only sixty years back but so removed from ours in its rhythms and its concerns - with the intense letter writing, the extended visits to country houses, and the imperatives of empire - will keep the attention of every reader.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2O6KPF03RT36A	0863162592	170588600	Silent Terror: A Journey into Contemporary African Slavery	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Silent Terror:  A Journey into Contemporary African Slavery.	Slavery - the crude ownership of a person and his exploitation like a beast of burden - has two major venues in the contemporary world, Sudan and Mauritania.  The Sudanese practice results in large part from a war conducted by Muslims against Christians; when the former conquer the latter, they frequently enslave them (and often convert them to Islam). Mauritania has no war and no religion other than Islam-it close to being a purely Muslim country - but it does have a racial divide of (light-skinned) Arabs and (dark-skinned) &quot;Negro-Africans,&quot; as they are known.  Out of a total population of some 2 million, some tens of thousands of Mauritanians are enslaved.    When Cotton, a graduate student at Columbia University and part-time journalist, learned about this situation, it horrified and absorbed him.  His short but intense trip to Mauritania in early 1996 showed him first-hand of the existence of this foul institution; and as a black American, he felt the servitude of the black Mauritanians with special poignancy. Cotton began his researches as a reporter, thinking that the mere exposure of facts would affect other African-Americans much as they did himself, as they startled at the racism and servitude in Mauritania, somewhat akin to the experience of their own ancestors. But they did not. He found that black leaders (Louis Farrakhan, mainstream black American Muslims, former congressman Mervyn Dymally, and academics at Howard University) not only pooh-pooh the issue but in many cases actively apologize for the slave system. So he became an activist. Thus  far, he has found, even his seeming successes, such as passing a NAACP resolution condemning slavery, turned out to have no operational significance.  <br />Cotton's account of the Mauritanian scene is harrowing, his personal story moving, and his report on African-American reactions depressing. Some two centuries after the great American abolitionist effort, a new iteration is needed, this time focusingon the Muslim world. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2ZRMHXF94N4WH	1851681337	344313547	Muslims and Christians Face to Face	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Muslims and Christians Face to Face.	Zebiri, lecturer at the University of London, takes up one of the most important factors lying behind the international politics of the Middle East:  the way Muslims and Christians see each other.  In a readable, insightful, and mercifully objective manner, the author covers two levels of contemporary discussion of this intricate relationship, the way popular writers and scholars see each other's religion. The result is an exemplary one-volume survey of a key topic.  <br />Several similarities emerge from the wealth of evidence Zebiri provides:  (1) Each side tends to fault the other side for lapses that the other side does not even consider a problem:  Muslims disdain Jesus as a career failure, Christians dismiss Muhammad as less than perfect. (2) They extend their religion's techniques to the other:  thus do Christians see the Qur'an as a mix of the human and the divine, while Muslims feel free to dismiss certain of Jesus' words as &quot;inauthentic.&quot; <br />If any thing, Zebiri points out differences that are even more interesting.  (1) Muslim views have remained largely static over the centuries, whereas Christian ones have much evolved.  In the twelfth century, a scholar justified fantastical stories about the Prophet Muhammad on the grounds that &quot;it is safe to speak evil of one whose malignity exceeds whatever ill can be spoken.&quot; Today, it is Christians who initiate dialogue efforts and sponsor ecumenical meetings. (2) Christians undertake the serious study of Islam far more often than Muslims do the study of Christianity, and for good theological reason:  Muslims tend to assume they know all they need about Jesus from the Qur'an, and so have little reason to study actual Christianity. Substantial Christian institutions exist to study Islam, but not the reverse.  (3) Christians tend to see their own missionaries as past history and pay little regard to Islamic efforts at proselytizing; Muslims rate both endeavors far more important. (4) Most Muslim writing on Christianity is raw and aggressive polemic (&quot;Jesus was the leader of a band of highway robbers&quot;), whereas Christian discussions of Islam seek to learn from it (one missionary writes that &quot;perhaps the ideal of Muslim prayer has a challenge for the devout Christian&quot;).  (5) Muslims dismiss Christianity as a has-been (which &quot;at the popular level celebrates its two central rites by tying gifts to a fir tree and rolling eggs down the hill, and at the intellectual level no longer exists at all&quot;), but Christians are wary of a revived Islam.  (6) Some Muslims display very bellicose attitudes (&quot;We cannot afford peace and reconciliation with the Ahl al-Kitab [People of the Book] until we can humble them and gain the upper hand&quot;) which are not echoed on the other side. <br />In all, Christians bend over backwards to understand the inner genius of Islam; in contrast, Zebiri notes, few Muslims are willing to explore &quot;what makes Christianity attractive to Christians.&quot;  It often happens that Christians who study Islam intensively feel attracted to it, whereas Muslims who familiarize themselves with the Christian truths find them all the more repugnant.  Louis Massignon's sense of &quot;walking on holy ground&quot; symbolizes his faith's predominant spirit of religious pluralism; in contrast, Ismail Al-Faruqi's implication that the Christian Fathers were cynical deceivers represents the defensive Muslim outlook. Thus do Christians show their self-confidence and Muslims their self-doubts.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1YD2SG40I01Q7	1860646298	961336155	Iran and the Rise of the Reza Shah: From Qajar Collapse to Pahlavi Power	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Iran and the Rise of Reza Shah	In Iran, as throughout the Middle East, the First World War and its aftermath was the crucial era of change.  The timetable was a bit slower, for Iran was less directly affected by the exigencies of battle than the countries to its West, but the impact was no less great.  As the subtitle signals, Ghani symbolizes the change via the monarchy:  the last Qajar, Ahmad Shah, was an &quot;irresolute, pleasure-seeking young man who came to the throne through an accident of birth,&quot; whereas Reza Shah was quite the opposite.  Ghani writes of &quot;his stern appearance, rarely a smile on his face, and his outbursts of anger even in public,&quot; and deems him &quot;straight-laced, taciturn and a moralist.&quot; <br />Ghani, a legal consultant and a bibliophile (he makes the astonishing assertion that &quot;Almost all the books I have relied on [to research Iran and the Rise of Reza Shah] were in my own library&quot;), is a first-class historian who in a clear manner explains the intricate process by which the British in 1921 almost accidentally pulled off a coup d'état that set in process the steps that led to dynastic change and the bumpy ride that would be the Pahlavi period.  Perhaps most interesting from the vantage point of six decades later is how Reza Shah's reign foreshadowed so many of the problems that his son Mohammad Reza Shah would later encounter, including his autocracy, suspiciousness, obsession with security, difficult relations with the Islamic hierarchy, and misunderstanding of the Western vs. Soviet dynamic.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1Y6KD9MX15TD8	0814788092	491941595	The History of Saudi Arabia	Books	5	14	19	N	N	The History of Saudi Arabia.	The bookshelves reveals a surprise:  no one (with the only slight exception of Harry St. John Philby)  has until now attempted a comprehensive overview of Saudi history going back to the eighteenth century.  Vassiliev, a Russian scholar and ranking foreign policy official, has updated his original Russian-language edition,  and the result is enormously impressive.  Relying on Arabic manuscripts (yes, Arabia was so backward that well into the twentieth century, scholars hand-wrote medieval-style chronicles) and Russian sources as well as the more usual Western authors (and even here, he uncovers forgotten but essential sources, such as the French historian Félix Mengin), he paints a picture of Saudi Arabia from its founder Ibn 'Abd al-Wahhab to the aftermath of the Kuwait war. The author has a solid grasp of everything from eighteenth-century theology to the international oil market; need to brush up on the conquest of Mecca or the murder of King Faysal?  Here's the place. More broadly, his great accomplishment is to make a hitherto fractured history whole. If you read or own just one book on Saudi Arabia, make sure it is this one.    For a flavor, here are noteworthy points concerning the early period: Vassiliev establishes that the Saudi state &quot;attained a might and a size that had been unknown [in Arabia] since the birth of Islam,&quot; then shows the radicalism and near-totalitarianism of the Wahhabi doctrine (&quot;it advised people how they should laugh, sneeze, yawn, joke, embrace and shake hands when meeting a friend and so on&quot;).  He explains the political  and material advantages for tribal leaders in adopting Wahhabism and, more controversially, how it became &quot;the banner of the Arab national movement against the Turkish influence in Arabia.&quot;  Despite its radicalism, he argues, &quot;Wahhabism did not change the social structure of Arabia,&quot; except in such fairly limited areas as taxation and the organizing of power. <br />Middle EastQuarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R20Z8S0JNE53HV	9652240400	387036117	Jewish Discovery of Islam: Studies in Honor of Bernard Lewis	Books	5	34	49	N	N	The Jewish Discovery of Islam	Starting in 1976, Edward Said has argued that Western scholars of the Middle East are continuing &quot;an unbroken tradition in European thought of profound hostility, even hatred, toward Islam,&quot; and he singles out Bernard Lewis as their de facto leader. Strangely, when Lewis in turn argued in favor of the Orientalist tradition - that unique effort by members of one civilization to understand the outside world in depth - his colleagues with near-unanimity abandoned him. Still, the battle is not entirely over. While Lewis himself retired from the fray, his highly talented ex-student, Martin Kramer continues the not-entirely-lonely effort to defend several centuries of Western scholarship on the Middle East.<br />In The Jewish Discovery of Islam, Kramer takes as his starting point several comments by Lewis about the important role of Jews in developing nineteenth-century European attitudes toward the Middle East and Islam, then asks: Did Jews actually made a distinct contribution to the Western discovery of Islam?  His reply - and that of his nine contributing authors - is a resounding yes. He and they argue that nineteenth-century Jews found in the Muslim world a model directly relevant to their current situation.  Looking about for arguments to bolster their case to join the mainstream of European life, they pointed to Islamic civilization at its height as to show the benefits of integrating Jewry. This in turn meant they had to prove that Baghdad and Cordoba represented peaks of human achievement. <br />These &quot;pro-Islamic Jews&quot; routed the opposition and their empathetic, sympathetic approach rules the roost today. Kramer's book has many implications: By showing that the main Orientalist tradition derived far more from sympathetic Jewish approach than from the hostile Christian one, it devastates Said's grand theory of Orientalism. It establishes that recent Western attitudes to the outside world - such as the Third-Worldism of the 1960s and the multiculturalism of today - owe their existence in good part to the success of the pro-Islamic Jews' long-ago efforts of humanize Islam. Muslims eventually also picked up on the romantic Jewish myths about Islam and made these a standard part of their own self-image. Finally, Muslims now living in the West owe much to the Jewish scholars who laid the groundwork for their finding an at least partially hospitable reception.<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2PHKGOQSPEG6Y	0944029299	58436111	Dollars and Diplomacy: The Impact of U.S. Economic Initiatives on Arab-Israeli Negotiations (Policy Papers (Washington Institute for Near East Policy))	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Dollars and Diplomacy:  The Impact of U.S. Economic	The U.S. government spends on the order of $5 billion a year in an effort to promote Arab-Israeli peace, not to speak of untold hours of diplomats' and politicians' time and many other exertions.  Has all this effort paid off?  Before replying, Clawson and Gold point out that the great majority of Middle Easterners disagree with the implied assumptions that lie behind the economic dimension of this effort (namely, that being better off makes it easier to make politically difficult decisions; and that economic cooperation probably will lead to political cooperation).  Far from wanting their opponents to prosper, people in the region (quite instinctively) fear that more wealth will make them a more formidable enemy.  Or, as the authors memorably put it (playing off of Shimon Peres's quip), Middle Easterners fear &quot;banks as much as tanks.&quot;  <br />Clawson and Gold cautiously endorse the American approach, calling efforts to build prosperity and regional cooperation &quot;useful.&quot; In the same breath, however, they emphasize the need for &quot;a sense of proportion&quot; in what to expect of economic incentives. &quot;In the Middle East, politics does come before business, but business can help to reinforce politics.&quot;  If Americans keep in mind the obvious limitations of economics, cooperation in this realm can help promote prosperity and people-to-people contact, positive ends in their own right, even if they do not lead to grand diplomatic breakthroughs. <br />Although the authors offer a sophisticated and sensible critique of U.S. outlook and policy, it may be that, at least in the Middle East, the nasty gut instinct of the locals (kick your opponent when he's down) is ultimately more on target than the good-willed American approach (help him up, remake him).  In any case, the years ahead will provide ample opportunity to discover who understands the region better.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R116OUCEZ1PC1Z	0944029280	600611096	New Media, New Politics? From Satellite Television to the Internet in the Arab World	Books	4	2	2	N	N	New Media, New Politics?	For good marketing reasons, no doubt, Alterman avoided using the term &quot;transnational media&quot; in his title, for it would surely loose him half his potential audience.  Yet, &quot;transnational media&quot; in the Arabic-speaking countries is precisely what his innovative study covers.  He devotes a chapter each to the London- and Paris-based Arabic-language newspapers, the many new satellite television stations, and that sleeping giant, the internet.  He shows how the emergence of these new media presents a novel and serious challenge to the old order of regime censorship.  With the possible exception of Iraq, no longer can the autocrats in power fully decide what their subjects read, see, and hear.  The old-fashioned media, Alterman finds, &quot;rail against the unfairness of purported U.S. and Israeli control of international institutions, they are blind to domestic news, and they cover neither intellectual developments nor human interest stories.&quot;  The new media fill at least some of these many holes.  Increasingly, as he felicitously puts it, the situation in the Arabic-speaking countries resembles that in the West, where governments have a &quot;voice but not a veto&quot; over information about their activities.  Although alive to the potential problems this can spur, overall, Alterman is optimistic about the impact of these new media, as one might expect an American analyst to be, believing in the benefits of freer speech.  <br />New Media, New Politics? has not just the virtue of an important and new thesis, but also many fascinating details. The Lebanese journalists who staff the newspapers may prefer Paris but the publications are mostly located in London because that is where the owners, predominantly from the Persian Gulf, prefer to live.  Not only are most of the newspapers and television stations owned by Saudis, but the Saudi market is overwhelmingly the most important for the upscale audience that ambitious media need to sell to advertisers; in 1994, $12.5 million out of $13 million of one London-based newspaper's total ad revenues came from there.  Still, advertising expenditures in the entire Arab world (with a population of over 200 million) come to only $900 million a year, hardly bigger than the $800 million in Israel (with a population of just 6 million). <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R821BAVCOVKJV	0826410537	362653075	Political Encyclopedia of the Middle East	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Political Encyclopedia of the Middle East	In contrast to Dilip Hiro's Dictionary of the Middle East,  dealt with at length by Nicole Brackman in the previous MEQ,  this one is written by twenty authors, not one, and it (fortunately) adheres to the traditional rules of providing accurate facts and steering clear of opinions.  It has the added virtue of being well written.  The Encyclopedia's geographic coverage extends from Morocco to Iran, with an emphasis on the usual countries (while Yemen as a whole, for example, is well covered, Yemeni politicians lack individual entries; in contrast those of Israelis and Egyptians abound).  Information on the Arab-Israeli conflict and peacemaking are particularly long and detailed, providing a fine overview of the whole issue-an orientation that may have something to do with the fact that the authors all reside in Israel.  The tome is not inexpensive, but if it comes out in an affordable paperback version, it can well become the standard one-volume reference work on Middle Eastern politics.    Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1SVZW2GJM4CYM	1585670960	974847528	Turkey Unveiled: A History of Modern Turkey	Books	3	29	35	N	N	Turkey Unveiled:  A History of Modern Turkey.	The title is unfortunate; the subtitle not quite accurate.  &quot;Modern Turkey&quot; usually means starting in about 1800 and trailing off somewhere in the last generation; this appears to be another once-over that familiar ground, but it is not.  Instead, the Popes (a wife-husband time), in a well-written and reliable account, devote three quarters of their study to the years since 1960. Chapters deal, in a sympathetic but always critical manner, with such issues as the military coups, the Cyprus issue, the Kurdish problem, domestic economic developments, the newly-liberated Turkic republics, the Tansu Çiller fiasco, and the Islamist phenomenon. Throughout, the Popes blame much that they find in Turkey on the modern state's founder, Kemal Atatürk, including the &quot;repression, the intense national paranoia, the shortcomings of its democracy and the over-reliance on the army.&quot;  <br />Perhaps most interesting is their account of Türgut Özal, the man who dominated Turkish politics between 1983 and his death in 1993.   He was &quot;the catalyst for much of the breathless pace of change that revolutionized Turkey&quot; during that decade-long period.  His influence extended to much of Turkish public life: &quot;Undermining the Kemalist bastions of state dominance of business and the media, flamboyantly popularizing a new ideology of the market and international trade, irreverently breaking taboos about the military, Islam and the Kurds, Türgut Özal became Turkey's most influential political personality since Atatürk.&quot;  The authors catch his contradictions (&quot;for all his Muslim piety, [he] liked to finish off a bottle of his favorite Courvoisier brandy&quot;) and his foibles (&quot;He is like a piece of soft iron.  Whatever magnet he sees, he sticks to&quot;), without undermining his outsized and constructive role.<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2TMZHV0DQJ5X8	0679767274	966811716	Cairo: The City Victorious	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Cairo:  The City Victorious.	Rodenbeck, a journalist for The Economist, has written a superior paean, one that mixes the intensity of first-hand experience with the fruits of a thorough immersion into the written record.  The result is both jaunty and learned, a pleasing whole that will interest those who wish to imagine that exotic locale as well as those who have personally experienced the city and wish better to understand its rhythms. Few cities can inspire as interesting a book as Cairo:  The City Victorious and few writers can carry it off as well as Rodenbeck.  <br />Size and crowdedness tend to make Cairo less than a favorite for travelers - more a place to bear and get through than to enjoy.  But if one can endure the noise, dirt, and traffic, there is much to discover.  The city contains antiquities from an amazingly diverse collection of eras; only Rome can try to compete with Cairo's monuments that span the five thousand years from the great pyramids of Giza to the present. Rodenbeck breezes through ancient times and settles on the medieval era, then traces its decline during the dismal period 1500-1800. His account comes most to life in the late nineteenth century, when Cairo revived in the guise of a partially European city (in 1910, he reckons, one-eighth of the city was foreign-born) -- a heady, exciting place for the Europeanized elite. <br />&quot;The first half of Cairo's twentieth century saw the West overwhelm the East.  High heels and two-tones clattered up marble stairs; camelskin babouches rustled down.  The century's second half saw the reverse:  silken slippers shuffling down, bare peasant feet and army boots stomping up.&quot; After the coup of 1952 that brought Gamal Abdel Nasser to power, Cairo then suffered, as did the whole country, under Nasser's tyranny and the cost of his foreign adventures.  Even Rodenbeck's infectious narrative takes a somber turn, weighed down by totalitarian rule at home and military disaster abroad. Fortunately, things improved with Nasser's death in 1970 and the lighter rule of Sadat and Mubarak that followed, though our author finds much not to like in the present-day city. Fanatical Islamic sheikhs who would ban zucchini because of its suggestive shape are one sort of problem; the inevitable proliferation of McDonald's are another. Still, he counts on the city's &quot;shambolic grandeur and operatic despair&quot; to continue, on its &quot;enduring, life-giving nonchalance&quot; to sustain it beyond jihad or hamburgers. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1OHP4Y1ZHW7OO	0863722202	284867732	The Society of the Muslim Brothers in Egypt: The Rise of an Islamic Mass Movement 1928-1942	Books	4	8	11	N	N	The Society of the Muslim Brothers in Egypt:  The Rise of an	The best known study of Egypt's foremost fundamentalist Islamic movement, Richard Mitchell's Society of the Muslim Brothers (1969), portrayed the organization as a reactionary response to Westernization mounted by those left in its wake.  And, indeed, this was the general interpretation of fundamentalist Islam by most writers on the subject before 1990 or so.  Now, however, a thoroughly different (and much improved) interpretation rules, one that sees the Muslim Brothers and like movements as a facet of modernization.  Their personnel are urbanites dealing with the cutting edge of modern problems; their ideas, methods, and goals all incorporate modern ways; and they show far more willingness to learn from the West than was hitherto realized. <br />In a very impressive research effort into the early years of the Muslim Brothers, Lia (a Norwegian scholar) relies on new sources and deep knowledge of his subject to show convincingly just how well that movement does fit the new interpretation.  He establishes that it organized in ways novel for Egypt and mobilized elements of the population hitherto neglected.  But its greatest importance lay in developing an answer to the rampant European ideologies of the 1930s:  in this, the Muslim Brothers began &quot;a lasting process of renewal . . . in which religion was related to the modern age and all aspects of modern life.&quot; With justification, Lia concludes that the Muslim Brothers' &quot;reinterpretation of Islam will remain the most far-reaching Islamic renewal this century.&quot;  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R2L9EAF10EI3KX	1582340498	376723457	Arafat: From Defender to Dictator	Books	2	12	28	N	N	Arafat:  From Defender to Dictator.	Aburish, a Palestinian journalist living in London, has Yasir Arafat's number.  He shows how the leader of the Palestinians is in many ways an Egyptian (having been born and reared in that country, living there until the age of 28, and still speaking Arabic like an Egyptian), his deep grounding in Islam, and his abiding parochialism (describing him as someone with &quot;an international veneer and a tribal core&quot;).  Capturing the elusive and contradictory nature of his subject, his book is an excellent place to learn about the personality and career of Arafat (but wait, there's a catch).  <br />With almost a sense of wonder, his biographer notes that Arafat is short, ugly, and disorganized; that he writes badly, talks uninspiredly, and acts too impulsively; that he is indifferent to social problems 43 146 and is &quot;devoted to politics, but without any specific ideology.&quot;  How, then, he muses, did a person with such qualities rise to become a world figure?  By obsessively, energetically, imaginatively, and persistently fusing his personality with the Palestinian cause.  (It takes nearly an hour to tie his Arab headdress so that it resembles the map of Palestine.)  <br />But there is a huge problem with this biography.  Aburish is wildly unreliable-to the point of parody-when it comes to politics.  Nearly all he writes about the United States and Israel is flawed.  For example, he absurdly ascribes the 1973 Arab-Israeli war to Henry Kissinger's &quot;selfish&quot; rivalry with Secretary of State William Rogers-as though Middle Easterners had nothing to do with the conflict.  Unless you work full time on the Middle East, steer clear of this book.  Fortunately, there is an alternative, the best book ever written about Arafat (and the barely acknowledged source of many of Aburish's ideas):  The Mystery of Arafat, the short 1995 study by Danny Rubinstein, an Israeli journalist.   <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1G76VBACXLV0U	0521591856	808651347	The Persian Presence in the Islamic World (Levi Della Vida Symposia)	Books	3	11	14	N	N	The Persian Presence in the Islamic World.	Arabic-speakers can claim the Prophet Muhammad as one of their own, but Iranians have bragging rights when it comes to turning a desert religion into a world civilization, and this is the point that the present volume, built about a conference at the University of California at Los Angeles honoring Ehsan Yarshater, emphatically makes. Yarshater himself takes the lead, providing an essay that fills nearly half the book, in which he shows that &quot;the Persian presence among the Arabs goes back to pre-Islamic times,&quot; thereby having an influence on the culture in which Islam initially appeared and which was subsequently carried around the world with the Islamic religion.  Further, Yarshater and his colleagues show how Iranian ways profoundly influenced both Islam itself (such as the notions of Messianic deliverance, the five daily prayers, and the practice of ritual purity) and then the nascent Muslim society.  For example, in the realm of government, the seclusion of rulers, the wearing of luxurious clothing, the institution of the qadi (religious judge), and the diwan (governmental department) all go back to Iranian precedents.  Other areas of influence include architecture, coinage, pharmacology, military technique, music, and secretarial practices.  In all, Yarshater finds that the first phase of Islamic civilization was Arabic, the second Persian.  Other authors in the volume look in depth at such matters as astronomy, poetry, mysticism, painting, and the writing of history.  Of special interest is a final chapter, by Gerhard Doerfer, on the vast Persian linguistic and literary influence among the Turks.  In all, this volume establishes, Iran and its culture have had a deep, pervasive, and abiding influence on Islam, and through it reached such disparate regions as eastern Europe and India.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R3C58616RL15AA	0684864851	218496758	Endgame : Solving the Iraq Problem -- Once and For All	Books	1	24	52	N	N	Endgame:  Solving the Iraq Problem - Once and for All.	At UNSCOM, the United Nations group tasked with defanging Iraq, Ritter led the U.N.'s Concealment Investigation Unit to unearth Iraqi efforts to build weapons of mass destruction (WMD). He resigned in a blaze of glory from in August 1998. Ritter makes his quite specific purpose clear right at the start in this well-organized and well-written account:  to establish the correct policy for stopping Saddam Husayn. He builds toward this goal with three steps.  <br />First, he tells the story of what he calls the one Iraqi constant since 1988-the ceaseless quest to build weapons of mass destruction. In the process, Ritter reliably presents a history of Iraqi high politics over the past decade. Second, Endgame recounts Ritter's personal experiences and memories during his many years on the UNSCOM team. He reveals a good deal of insider information-headline stuff like the CIA infiltration of UNSCOM as well as details about Russian-Iraqi collusion and what Iraqi defectors revealed to UNSCOM. Third, he critiques the Clinton Administration for a &quot;shallow understanding&quot; of the obstacles to disarming Iraq and its &quot;appalling lack of leadership.&quot; He faults the administration for its &quot;uninspired no-endgame strategy of containment through economic sanctions of indefinite duration.&quot;  These preliminaries done, Ritter offers his own ideas for &quot;solving the Iraq problem - once and for all,&quot; as his subtitle puts it. He sketches out two alternatives to the present policy of containment, one military and the other diplomatic.  The military option revives the &quot;Road to Baghdad&quot; plan of 1991: send 250,000 American soldiers to the Persian Gulf, overthrow the Saddam regime, and rebuild Iraq in America's image. But he pushes this option aside and instead a U.S.-Iraqi  deal:  Saddam recognizes Kuwait, forswears weapons of mass destruction, gives the Kurds autonomy, ends the state of war with Israel, and works things out with the Iraqi opposition forces.  In return, the U.S. government ends economic sanctions, funds the reconstruction of Iraq, rebuilds the Iraqi military, and permits peaceful nuclear research. <br />In other words, Ritter is prepared to take Saddam at his word,- something the historical record suggests is completely unwarranted - and to make this the basis of U.S. policy toward Iraq. Ritter advocates a course of appeasement and defeatism; give Saddam what he wants and hope for the best.  This totally appalling policy recommendation suggests the author should be back to dismantling weapons, not opining on foreign policy. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1VO94U8KNQDJ1	9004109471	20240811	Defining Islam for the Egyptian State: Muftis and Fatwas of the Dar Al-Ifta (SOCIAL, ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL STUDIES OF THE MIDDLE EAST AND ASIA)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Defining Islam for the Egyptian State	Should Islam ban insurance (as a form of gambling) or permit it (because its purpose is the reduce risk)?  What about the telegraph, the hat, and reasonable interest on certificates of deposit?  The answer to these and other questions comes in a fatwa, an advisory opinion on Islamic law issued by a religious authority known as a mufti.  More than any other mechanism, fatwas provide a way for Islam to adopt to new places and times; as such, they constitute a basic building block of Muslim life, though one only recently receiving the attention they deserve.   Skovgaard-Petersen, a Danish scholar, moves the process greatly forward through his excellent study of their &quot;gradual institutionalization&quot; in twentieth-century Egypt, the country perhaps most crucial to their development.  As his title suggests, he argues that the mufti was the key intermediary between events on the ground and the government's interpretation of them.  Even more:  the mufti became &quot;a central figure&quot; in developing the political meaning of Egypt's Islamic identity.   Skovgaard-Petersen pays particular attention to a ground-breaking fatwa by the renowned scholar, Muhammad 'Abduh (1849-1905), in which he permitted Muslims in South Africa to eat the meat of animals slaughtered by Christians.  Not only was the distance involved startling, but so was the permission.  With this, 'Abduh introduced a &quot;new kind of public fatwa:  the daring well-researched statement, where the State Mufti is reconsidering the Islamic tradition taking into account the needs of the time.&quot; He has had many successors, and cumulatively they have done much to adapt Islam to modernity.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R1MI7Z59B2OLPJ	9004106324	18118605	Pan-Islamism: Indian Muslims, the Ottomans and Britain (1877-1924) (Ottoman Empire and Its Heritage - Politics, Society and Economy , No 12)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Pan-Islamism	The Indian romance with the Ottoman Empire has been known from British and Indian sources, but Özcan fleshes out the story - and a fascinating one it is - with information from the Turkish archives.  First, he shows that the Indian connection did not begin, as is usually thought, in the 1870s, but goes back to the 1530s, when the Ottomans sent a fleet of two thousand men to Diu and Indian Muslims expressed a desire for Ottoman suzerainty. By the 1550s, a cultural nexus had also grown up, so that a renowned Turkish architect was building in Agra and Delhi. It then continued; inn 1777, for example, the sultan of Malabar sought financial help from Istanbul. <br />Second, Özcan shows how the Ottoman Empire filled this same role for a variety of other Muslim countries-such as the khanates of Central Asia and distant Atjeh (in today's Indonesia). Interestingly, these states not only asked for Ottoman help (which they sometimes got-twenty battleships to Atjeh to fight the Portuguese in 1556) but also offered their own services (the khan of Bukhara offered all help in 1719 against Russia). <br />With the collapse of Muslim power in India in 1857, a longing developed there for the symbols of Turkish sovereignty, which the British agilely exploited their own purposes (for example, prevailing on the Ottoman sultan to encourage Indians to accept British rule). Sultan Abdülhamit II (r. 1876-1908) put great stress on his pan-Islamic role, going so far as to assert that &quot;one word&quot; from him &quot;would be enough for starting a jehad against ... the Christians.&quot; Of course, when war came in 1914, that &quot;one word&quot; proved not to be enough, and although the Indian Muslims remained attached to their Turkish coreligionists, they did not revolt against British rule. Contrarily, the Indians could do nothing to stop Kemal Atatürk from abolishing the caliphate in 1924, an act that effectively cut the links between Turkey's and India's Muslims.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1999	2001-08-05
US	43093648	R3AXWFEW1J1QBI	0312181531	21601238	An Original Man: The Life and Times of Elijah Muhammad	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An Original Man	Elijah Muhammad has hitherto been the most obscure of the trio, a quiet, even shadowy figure far less conspicuous to the outside world than either of his spokesmen.  Clegg establishes, however, that contrary to the almost universal opinion of outsiders, Muhammad had far more importance and power within the movement than either of the younger men-or anyone else, for that matter.  His biography, the best volume ever written on the Nation of Islam, relies on a broad and impressive array of original documents, such as the will bequeathing Muhammad's slave grandfather from a father to his daughter and the extensive FBI records pertaining to the Nation of Islam.  Perhaps most fascinating and original is Clegg's argument that no matter how radical Muhammad's rhetoric seemed, he had by 1960 become the captive of his own avarice, and that this imposed an operational conservatism, even a timidity, quite at odds with his fire-breathing talk.  Interestingly, Clegg attributes this change in part at least to Muhammad's 1959-60 trip to the Muslim world, where he was appalled by the poverty and filth; henceforth, he stopped portraying the &quot;Holy Land of Islam&quot; as a place infinitely superior to the United States that would save American blacks.  This implied a decrease in revolutionary expectations and more stress on the message of economic self-improvement. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-04
US	43093648	RK51A0UJ37ZPH	0814718647	806707721	On the Side of My People: A Religious Life of Malcolm X	Books	4	1	2	N	N	On the Side of My People:  A Religious Life of Malcolm X.	Contrary to Elijah Muhammad, Malcolm X has won more than his due share of attention.  But he gained renown mostly for reasons having to do with his personal odyssey from petty thief to political figure of international stature, his black nationalism, and his scintillating rhetoric-not because he was a key figure in the growth of Islam in the United States.  DeCaro fills this gap with an intelligent focus on his &quot;religious life.&quot;  Like Clegg, he relies on extensive research of primary documents; he finds much that is new about the man he terms a &quot;religiously driven revolutionist.&quot; 5 In particular, he shows where Malcolm X's famous Autobiography is either lacking important information or slanted to make a point; what Malcolm X actually did during his last year (after leaving the NOI and becoming a mainstream Muslim); and the parallels in Malcolm X's dual conversion (to the NOI, to Islam).  From an Islamic viewpoint, On the Side of My People is of special interest for the way DeCaro pulls apart the myth Malcolm X had propagated about having learned of mainstream Islam only on reaching Mecca in April 1964; in fact, we find out here, he had for many months, even years, been tending in that direction.  Reaching Mecca for Malcolm X was less a revelation than an opportunity to come out of the religious closet.  <br />Middl East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-04
US	43093648	R1XN85BCNVO9AE	1860641563	115778961	Arab-Iranian Relations	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Arab-Iranian Relations.	The editor claims that this is the first book of its sort, and he is no doubt right, just as he is right to assert that &quot;the theoretical joinder between Arabs and Iranians is of far broader sort than that exists between Arabs and other neighboring states.&quot;  Confirming this observation, a large number of leading intellectual and cultural figures from the Arab countries and Iran fill a hefty tome with serious analysis of their connections.  A few essays deal with the long historical record; a much greater number take up current issues.  Their topics include bilateral politics (governmental signals, territorial disputes), international topics (the &quot;Middle East order,&quot; Kurdish and Palestinian issues), and domestic matters (women, economics, civil society, textbooks).   Unfortunately, what could be a highly innovative collection of essays is marred by two main drawbacks.  First, many of the writers are constrained by their governments to parrot the official line; and so than a few of the essays sound like propaganda tracts.  Second, the study has an explicitly activist agenda (for Arabs to look at Iran &quot;as a part of the Islamic strategic depth to the Arab nation&quot;) that puts a premium on getting along, no matter what tensions must be buried to do so.  Symbolic of this, Ghoulam Ali Haddad Adel of Iran writes approvingly that Iranian textbooks never ascribed the &quot;slaughter&quot; of Iranian visitors and pilgrims in Iraq to &quot;Arab fanaticism&quot;; a coy formulation that permits Adel to appear broadminded even as he criticizes Arabs.  Only when the participants are free to express their own views, and to do so disinterestedly, will the quality of such a project as this one notably improve.	2001-08-04
US	43093648	R3UIGVW683X52A	0195114396	225990835	Saddam's Word: Political Discourse in Iraq (Studies in Middle Eastern History)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Saddam's Word:  Political Discourse in Iraq.	Starting from the premise that the best way to understand the nature of Saddam Husayn's regime &quot;is not through conventional narrative history but rather through an analysis of political discourse,&quot; Bengio reviews in detail the Iraqi regime's use of language.  Focusing on the terms that the Ba'thi Party itself &quot;placed at the center of its idiom,&quot; she shows the importance of the fact that &quot;revolution&quot; (thawra) is a good thing in Iraqi discourse and &quot;coup d'état&quot; (inqilab) a bad one. She dissects the treatment of a trio of enemies receives-imperialism, Israel, and Iran.   Bengio, a senior research fellow at the Dayan Center of Tel Aviv University, draws several major conclusions.  The Saddam Husayn regime has lasted so long because it has mastered verbal manipulation as well as physical power. A &quot;major shift&quot; has taken place, &quot;from a secular, leftist, and socialist idiom to a language dominated by Islamic terms and concepts.&quot; The ultimate purpose of all the political talk is to make the public &quot;acquiesce in the total power monopoly of a numerically tiny elite.&quot;  While the author thoroughly and creatively exposes her subject, she does not achieve her bold claim of besting &quot;conventional narrative history&quot; in explaining Iraqi politics.  However valuable the close reading of rhetorical texts, this can only complement, not replace, the full-scale study of history.  In the end, the regime's propaganda is but a small part of its power.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1998	2001-08-04
US	43093648	R2J63GZ6AG9TG	0375706488	419327837	Beyond Belief: Islamic Excursions Among the Converted Peoples	Books	3	59	69	N	N	Beyond Belief:  Islamic Excursions among Converted People	In 1979, the distinguished writer V. S. Naipaul set off for an extensive tour of four Muslim countries.  His reports from Iran, Pakistan, Malaysia, and Indonesia had a quirky but brilliant quality.  In each of his destinations, Naipaul found a surprising contradiction:  those intent on rejecting the West in the name of Islam are also adamant about gaining the fruits of the West's achievements.  <br />Nearly two decades later, Naipaul recently retraced his steps and visited the same four countries, sometimes even visiting the same individuals he'd talked to a generation earlier.  His quick vignettes, word sketches, and pieces of conversation make Beyond Belief a pleasure to read.  His travels this time dwell less on internal contradictions and more on the widespread feeling that things have gone amiss.  In Iran, the country of most direct interest to Americans, Naipaul finds that the revolution of 1978-79 has run its course and is virtually defunct.  Regulations, Naipaul finds again and again, are everywhere, \\"deforming people's lives.\\" They have taken the place of spontaneity.    Naipaul finds that the government's heavy-handed use of religion has turned many Muslims against their religion.  Hypocrisy has become rank:  Men grow beards for job applications, to enhance their religiosity, then but them off. \\"The word religious rankled with Mehrdad,\\" he notes of a typical young man, a believer in God but a rebel against the many rules His earthly representatives impose.  Things have gotten so bad, a most revealing conspiracy theory is making the rounds-that Khomeini was a British agent and \\"the establishing of the Islamic state in Iran was an anti-Islamic plot by the Powers.\\" In significant ways, Naipaul finds Iran to be an Islamic-flavored version of the Soviet Union.  Like residents of the Soviet Union in the 1980s too, this is a people worn out by their history and their current misery.  The country, Naipaul observes, \\"had been given an almost universal knowledge ofpain.\\" And out of this has come not new hope, not new wisdom, but a shattering new nihilism, again reminiscent of the Soviet experience.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1998	2001-08-03
US	43093648	R17I3UYHGHJIL4	1566631572	419586078	Looking for Farrakhan	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Looking for Farrakhan.	Levinsohn, has an intelligent mind and a good knowledge of race relations in the United States, but she remains captive to a far-left mentality that distorts her understanding of this subject (poor black women in search of domestic work she terms &quot;victims&quot;) as well as international politics (the Kuwait conflict she dubs &quot;George Bush's curious war against Iraq&quot;). Her ignorance sometimes causes her needlessly to speculate about well-known facts (such as the physical characteristics of the NOI founder, W. D. Fard, whose huge portrait has graced many of the movement's public events). She repeats old mistakes (that Farrakhan was expected to succeed Elijah Muhammad, that Malcolm X was more powerful than Elijah Muhammad) and initiates new ones (Farrakhan never mentions in speeches the old NOI goal of a separate black state, that the NOI does not follow up on its threats of violence). <br />Despite these shaky underpinnings, Levinsohn does offer insights to help decipher Farrakhan, showing the role of his family's West Indies background and explaining the &quot;aura of madness&quot; that surrounds him. She calls him &quot;the most influential man in the black world&quot; but also &quot;one of the shrewdest opportunists in recent history,&quot; someone who &quot;doesn't care&quot; about such issues as job training and the problems of the black poor.  Instead, his &quot;interest is in building a great and strong Nation of Islam, with branches wherever there are black people.&quot; <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	R3OL01JOX2NTZA	025321159X	875481378	Negotiating Arab-Israeli Peace: Patterns, Problems, Possibilities	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Negotiating Arab-Israeli Peace:	In an innovative study, two historians of the Arab-Israeli conflict reflect on what their craft can contribute to peacemaking.  They reach the depressing conclusion that the tried and true ways lead to failure, and that &quot;the more closely negotiations follow the old patterns, the less likely they are to succeed.  Hopes for resolution of this conflict rest on deviating from those patterns.&quot; <br />More specifically, Eisenberg and Caplan find six considerations important to success:  the parties' motives, timing, high-status negotiating partners, minimal third-party involvement, reasonably similar terms of agreement, and the absence of psychological obstacles. Some of these factors are commonsensical, other more subtle; in all, it is good to see them assayed in the balance of historical experience.  <br />Just one error in judgment mars an otherwise sound analysis, namely the authors' tendency toward moral equivalency, implying that the democratic state of Israel is no better or worse that the terrorist organization led by Yasir Arafat or the totalitarian regime headed by Hafiz al-Asad.  For example, in one passage, the authors hold that &quot;both Arab and Israeli leaders&quot; struggled with extremist wings of their constituencies-making it seem as though West Bank settlers were the counterpart of Saddam Husayn. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	RE1UAY53YHBPM	0814326757	386844197	Without Forgetting the Imam: Lebanese Shi’ism in an American Community	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Without Forgetting the Imam:  Lebanese Shi'ism in an America	Aside from two pioneering anthropological works done in the 1960s,  a completely different era from the present one, Walbridge has written the first book-length study of an immigrant American Muslim community.  And she's picked perhaps the most interesting one of them, Dearborn, Michigan, a town of nearly 100,000 population that is mostly Arab and largely Muslim.  It's a place where &quot;recently arrived villagers [from Lebanon] can manage adequately . . . without ever tasting a hamburger or uttering a word of English.&quot;  Walbridge is not only a keen observer of Dearborn but brings the added insight of having earlier lived in Lebanon itself, and so can compare the peoples she encounters in the suburbs of Detroit with their relatives back home.  <br />Her years of research in 1987-91 and &quot;vast amounts of time&quot; spent with the subjects of her study have permitted a subtle and convincing portrait of a people still very much outside the mainstream of American life.  Take the distinctly Shi'i institution of temporary marriage (mut'a in Arabic):  Walbridge tells of a young man, hoping for sex with a woman without breaking the rules of his religion or forming a permanent bond with a non-Muslim.  He propositioned a number of American women with the prospect of a temporary marriage and &quot;all of them laughed at him except one,&quot; and she ended up converting to Islam and getting permanently married to him.  Among the most valuable information here is a careful review of Islamic practices; Walbridge finds the avoidance of pork to be most widespread and the full complement of prayers perhaps the least.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	R3Q633DJJXFU0O	0915957264	350853462	Struggling to Surrender: Some Impressions of an American Convert to Islam	Books	3	35	67	N	N	Struggling to Surrender	Lang, a white professor of mathematics at the University of Kansas, explains his reasons for converting to Islam at the age of twenty-eight in 1982, his subsequent experiences, and his views on reforming Islam.  It may sound routine, but his is probably the only such account yet published.  Like many other American converts, Lang felt disaffected from American life and refers in an off-hand way to &quot;our society's unrelenting greed and neglect.&quot; He found himself inching toward Islam through warm personal relations, then finally making the leap.  It began easily:  he tells of the &quot;jubilation and relief&quot; his conversion brought to his Muslim friends, followed by their hugs.  But things quickly became more challening; he characterizes the transition as &quot;a journey from individualism to traditionalism, from learning to illumination, from the sensible to the unseen, from reason to intuition.&quot; <br />Lang made a serious study of Islam and reflects in an informed way on such issues as the validity of the hadith (reports on the sayings and doings of the Prophet Muhammad) and the position of women.  He argues that Islam's special quality lies in its rationality; and that it can only aspire to being more than &quot;just another religion&quot; if Muslims make a &quot;rationally compelling case.&quot; <br />More original, however, are his musings on converts like himself.  On the one hand, he acknowledges that &quot;converts can be the most severe and rigid in their ideas and practices,&quot; and that they are &quot;often among the least tolerant&quot; of Muslims. At the same time, not being grounded in traditions, they are &quot;likely to bring with them radical, alien ideas&quot; that he believes can go far to rejuvenate Islam and render it extremely appealing to a Western audience.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	R3GCUSTKY3MYYC	0791425797	226405576	Al-Mughtaribun: American Law and the Transformation of Muslim Life in the United States (Suny Series, Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Al-Mughtaribun...	Moore argues that &quot;there is a distinctively American Muslim experience which is the product of a particular social environment.&quot;  To discern what this is might be, she focuses on the role of U.S. civil law in Muslim lives.  The subject matter of Al-Mughtaribun (Arabic for &quot;emigrants,&quot; also a hint of a pun on the word &quot;Westernizers,&quot;) ranges widely and includes Muslim efforts to emigrate to the United States a century ago, Muslim prisoners in American jails, &quot;hate-crime&quot; legislation, and attempts to build mosques in suburban areas.  <br />Although Moore is not always a reliable guide (her political views sometimes get in the way), her subject matter is original and always interesting.  She digs up what may be the first reference to Islam in the U.S. legal literature (an 1811 blasphemy case, calling it an &quot;imposter&quot; religion) and shows how the anti-Mormon campaign of the late nineteenth century turned polygamy into a barrier against Muslim immigration. (Indeed, the first foreign Islamic missionary to the United States, a very respectable Ahmadi who arrived in Philadelphia from Great Britain in February 1920, was straightaway incarcerated and told to return whence he came, on the grounds that he advocated polygamy; after two months in custody he was released-but only on strict condition that he not promote polygamy). The law does provide, as Moore holds, an excellent prism through which to understand the specifics of American Islam.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	R18LM1JLROLZAM	0878406573	766927717	The Farrakhan Phenomenon: Race, Reaction, and the Paranoid Style in American Politics	Books	2	1	3	N	N	The Farrakhan Phenomenon:  Race, Reaction, and the Paranoid	Singh seeks to understand the causes of Farrakhan's rise and its implications for the United States; religion and worldview have only the slightest importance for this author, whereas black American politics are paramount.  Although shakey on the Nation of Islam (referring mistakenly to its seven daily prayers and female Fruit of Islam guards) and also on conservative politics in the United States (thinking Farrakhan shares important features with Jesse Helms  and Ronald Reagan), Singh has a thorough grasp of American racial politics and a clear sense of his subject's place in them.  Correctly, he de-emphasizes the importance of antisemitism to Farrakhan's message  while placing much greater emphasis on his vituperative attacks on other black leaders.  These are based on the leaders' social liberalism, which is so much out of tune with the electorate's conservatism:  &quot;Farrakhan's popular appeals are also in part based upon his persistent exploitation of the disjunctures between elite black attitudes and popular African-American beliefs.&quot; In Singh's view, the Nationa of Islam's (NOI) religious doctrines and Farrakhan's eclectic theological claims are most appropriately regarded as merely an embellishment of more fundamental traditionalist and populist political tenets.&quot;  Arguing against those who see Farrakhan as a media creation, Singh points to his having built up a large constituency without help from the mainstream newspapers and television.  He concludes from this that the best way to fend off Farrakhan's ugly and threatening influence is &quot;to accord him the opportunity-and even the responsibility-for implementing effective political, economic, and social change.&quot; However scary this course, the author maintains, it is the best way to call a demagogue's bluff.   Middle East Quarterly, December 1998	2001-08-02
US	43093648	R147Q5ES5T7JX9	0295975970	184701432	Rethinking Modernity and National Identity in Turkey (Publications on the Near East)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Rethinking Modernity and National Identity in Turkey.	\\"About time\\" was this reviewer's response to a collection of essays reconsidering the Atatürk experiment in secularism and Western orientation some sixty years on.  Essays, almost all by Turks, offer high-quality though overly jargon-laden discussions of such topics as architecture, women, and scholarship.  <br />The book's highlight is undoubtedly an unassuming 12-page essay, \\"The Quest for the Islamic Self within the Context of Modernity,\\" by Nilüfer Göle, an associate professor of sociology at Boðaziçi University in Istanbul.  Göle establishes the enormous cultural chasm between the Atatürkists' Westernizing ideals and what had come before, then shows how today's Islamists are trying \\"to maintain an identity separate from that of the dominant West.\\" In other words, rather than see Islamists as products of failed economies, she shows the acutely important cultural dimension of their effort.  To illustrate these points, she looks in more depth at the question of the body, especially the female body, and contrasts the Western notions of care and exposure with the thoroughly different Islamic concepts.  Göle concludes by noting the paradox of Islamic pop music and fashion shows-two signs indicating the ubiquity of Western modernity.  <br />All this should be self-evident, but it is not; most analysts of Islam pay too little attention to culture in their fascination with material well-being.  Göle has succinctly shown why they are wrong.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3K2G393Q7MXDW	080143338X	526257348	The Dual Nature of Islamic Fundamentalism	Books	4	20	26	N	N	The Dual Nature of Islamic Fundamentalism	Jansen, a professor at Leiden University in Holland, is one of the most astute and daring writers on fundamentalist Islam.  His title points to the rather pedestrian fact that fundamentalist Islam is both fully politics and fully religion, but the book offers the authors deep understanding of this phenomenon, which he characterizes as an unusual combination of logic, religion, politics and violence. <br />Jansen shows how fundamentalist Islam is religion narrowed down to an ideology but is still a religion, albeit one concerned with earthly power. He establishes that it is not a protest against being poor but an invariably successful form of propaganda because the public to whom it is addressed love to hear it. The two chapters on fundamentalist attitudes toward Jews and women are among the most incisive anywhere.  But the most interesting chapter may be the failure of the liberal alternative, in which Jansen establishes that the anti-fundamentalists have no weapons other than words and so are steadily losing to the fundamentalists, who have large masses of followers. <br />Jansens book is not so much a systematic study as a series of musings by a original and daring mind, primarily concentrating on Egypt.  He reads the writers others only cite, such as Faraj Fuda and Shukri Mustafa.  He chides not just fundamentalists, but also the ulema and fellow orientalists for absurdities and errors in logic.  Islam, he says, obviously must be tolerated in an open society, but does this tolerance extend to Islamic fundamentalism too?  Yes, he replies, if it is a legitimate form of Islam; but not if it is a political ideology. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1I92W6T48MIN4	1860642535	505749701	The Constitution of Iran: Politics and the State in the Islamic Republic	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Constitution of Iran	Close observers of the Iran have long puzzled over the paradox of the anti-Western Khomeini founding a republic based on a constitution that represents the nation via the decisions of a parliament which is chosen through popular elections-for these are all Western concepts.  In a exquisitely detailed and revealing study of Iranian politics, Schirazi (a researcher at the University of Berlin) makes this paradox the center of his research and provides an important new understanding of the ideas that have dominated Iran for nearly two decades.  <br />In particular, Schirazi notes two giant contradictions at the heart of the Islamic Republic:  a government that supposedly rests on the pure principles of Shi`i Islam in fact draws heavily from Western secular sources entirely alien to the Shari`a (Islamic sacred law); simultaneously, its authority also rests on the authority that derives only from God but also from the will of the Iranian people.  The author shows the historical roots of these contradictions (in 1906 the mullahs looked to a constitution to make the government more Islamic), then devotes the bulk of this fascinating book to the practical working out of the dilemmas they create and showing how these have molded contemporary Iranian life.  In a word, secular defeated Islamic, God defeated the people. <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3SSAAZCCTMR3B	0813327849	136511541	Democratization and the Islamist Challenge in the Arab World	Books	2	6	18	N	N	Democratization and the Islamist Challenge in the Arab World	Does Islamism encourage democracy or not?  Ghadbian (a researcher at the dynamic new Emirates Center for Strategic Studies and Research in Abu Dhabi) argues that Islamism contains two strains, one favoring democracy and the other against it.  The former he associates with moderates, the latter with radicals.  Holding that moderates are far more numerous and powerful than radicals, he rues that we in the West seem blind this fact:  \\"the antidemocracy view has come to be seen as the Islamist norm while the views of the majority of Islamists appear exceptional.\\" He includes in the moderate camp such figures as the Egyptians Hasan al-Banna and Sayyid Qutb. <br />It's a neat and alluring distinction, but unfortunately one without validity.  Ghadbian draws a pleasant picture of \\"moderates\\" that has no connection to reality.  For example, he states that their having suffered miserably at the hands of despots, \\"has made resistance to authoritarianism a strong component of the Islamist subculture. . . .  Those who suffered prison terms became especially aware of the dangers of human rights abuses.\\" Sounds good, but tell that to the thousands of political prisoners currently languishing in Iranian jails.  Ghadbian mentions Hasan at-Turabi, Sudan's strongman, as someone who speaks of \\"the congruity between Islamic principles and democracy.\\" But what good does this do when his regime rules barbarically  and has only the trappings of democracy?  No, there are no \\"moderate\\" Islamists, only deluded analysts who try to convince of their existence.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	RS3EMYE4Y37K5	026801308X	562086949	Louis Massignon: The Crucible of Compassion	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Louis Massignon:  The Crucible of Compassion.	Massignon's name rings familiar to few English speakers but this French scholar of Islam who lived from 1883 to 1962 was perhaps the most influential Western scholar of Islam in this century.  His far-reaching impact can be seen not just in today's university classrooms but also in American foreign policy.  <br />Massignon had a most active life for a scholar, as Gude shows in her well-written and judicious biography.  It included the excavation of an Iraqi fort, near-execution on a Turkish steamer, a passionate homosexual love affair, military combat in the first world war and a refusal to hand over the keys to a Bordeaux town in the second. Massignon experienced a dramatic conversion from secularism to Catholicism at age 24, ordination as a married Catholic priest at the age of 66, and arrest for political activities at the age of 75. He enjoyed friendships with such figures as Martin Buber, Paul Claudel, Charles de Foucauld, T. E. Lawrence, and François Mauriac.   <br />Massignon forwarded too many eccentric ideas to found a school of thought or have his views accepted in their totality, but his deeply-held sympathy for Islam had immense influence both among fellow specialists (thanks to his unique scholarly accomplishments) and more broadly among the French intellectual elite (thanks to his long history of political activism).   Massignon's writings and organizing won almost no practical victories, but his passionate determination to find common ground for Christians and Muslims have profoundly shaped the way several generations of sophisticated Westerners respond to that faith.  Current American policy toward Islam bears the clear impress of his thinking.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3NQCW6PPH74N8	1860641059	427513005	The Army and Creation of the Pahlavi State in Iran, 1921-1926	Books	3	5	7	N	N	The Army and the Creation of the Pahlavi State in Iran	Why has Iran fared so much worse than Turkey in the twentieth century?  Absolute monarchy and Islamic revolution stunted political development in the Iranian case, oil exports held its economy hostage, class and ethnic differences seem only to worsen with the passage of time.  In contrast, while Turkey has had its share of tribulations, it has gradually become more democratic, wealthy, and stable.  <br />Cronin offers an original and provocative thesis for this difference by contrasting Kemal Atatürk (1881-1938), founder of Turkey's modern state, with Reza Shah Pahlavi (1878-1944), founder of the Pahlavi dynasty.  The two contemporaries both rose to the top of their respective military establishments and displayed severely authoritarian outlooks.  Both faced crises in the aftermath of World War I.  But Atatürk had a solid grounding in Western ways, which led him ultimately to seek a legal basis for the Turkish Republic, to keep the military out of politics, foster secularism, and encourage political participation.  In contrast, the \\"patrimonial monarchy\\" established by his Iranian counterpart \\"possessed none of these positive features.\\" Interesting, but a bit strong:  Reza Shah emulated Atatürk in many respects, including his secularism, and the Iranian military has stayed more scrupulously outside of politics than the Turkish.  <br />In the course of her illuminating detective work to piece together the army's history in the crucial years around World War I, Cronin ventures to speculate that had Reza Shah's rival, the British-trained Colonel Muhammad Taqi Khan Paysan, won power, \\"Iran might have followed a path closer to that of Turkey under Kemal, building more solid institutions and achieving greater stability.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3EGJZRRODP8LY	0814774687	321631755	Islamic Homosexualities: Culture, History, and Literature	Books	4	76	96	N	N	Islamic Homosexualities:  Culture, History, and Literature.	Put aside the homophilism and the jargon, both of which are a bit strong, and whats left is a fascinating and eye-opening book about a topic much hinted at but little considered systematically.  The authors not only have the benefit of knowing homosexuality in many other societies but are well grounded in matters Islamic.  Despite the title, they deal predominantly with men; lesbians are little known about.  <br />As with so much else in the sexual realm, Islamic norms differ profoundly from Western ones.  The authors establish several points:  (1) Islam treats homosexuality far less harshly than does Judaism or Christianity. (2) Sex between men results in part from the segregation of women and in part from the poetic and folk heritage holding that the penetration of a pretty boy is the ultimate in sexual delight. (3) Sex between men is frowned upon, but accepted so long as the participants also marry and have children; and also if they keep quiet about this activity. (4) The key distinction is not hetero- vs. homosexual but active vs. passive; men are expected to seek penetration (with wives, prostitutes, males, animals); the only real shame is attached to serving in the female role.  (5) Youths usually serve in the female role and can leave behind this shame by graduating to the male role. (6) The great Muslim emphasis on family life renders homosexuality far less threatening to Muslim societies than to Western ones (Muslim men seeking formally to marry each other remains unimaginable).  <br />In the most startling parts of Islamic Homosexualities, Murray and Roscoe re-interpret important historical developments through the prism of male sex among Muslims.  For example, they make a plausible case that sexual attraction was a significant impetus for the development of military slavery throughout the Muslim world.  Less persuasively, they speculate that the relaxed Muslim attitude on this subject incited medieval European hostility to homosexuality as a wayfor those otherwise backward peoples to feel superior to Muslims. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R25O7GTAOR3RCG	0253211042	995786447	Islam in the African-American Experience	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Islam in the African-American Experience.	Turner argues three interesting points in his faddish though well-researched study:  First, Islam was a significant factor in the lives of American slaves.  In particular, it had a disproportionate role in inspiring resistance to the institution of slavery:  \\"writing in Arabic, fasting, wearing Muslim clothing, and reciting and reflecting on the Quran were the keys to an inner struggle of liberation against Christian tyranny.\\" In reaction, whites sought the return of Muslims to Africa, \\"to rid America of Islam.\\" <br />Second, this faith (what Turner calls the \\"old Islam\\") then died out.  By the time of the Civil War, Islam among blacks was, \\"for all practical purposes, defunct.\\" <br />Third, a \\"new Islam\\" took many years to revive and did so through the circuitous route of Pan-African nationalism, black Christian ministers distressed at the racism of their denomination, white American converts to Islam, Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association, Nobel Drew Ali's Moorish Science Temple of America, and the Indian-based Ahmadiyya Movement to America.  W. D. Fard emerged from this eccentric background in 1930 and preached the religion that would eventually crystalize as the Nation of Islam.  Turner then reliably covers the more familiar ground of Elijah Muhammad, Malcolm X, and Louis Farrakhan, concluding that \\"African-American Islam has finally arrived on the center stage of American religion and politics.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3A8DQOE5F6SWO	0226021246	559986176	Spokesmen for the Despised: Fundamentalist Leaders of the Middle East	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Spokesmen for the Despised	One likely reason for the limited appeal of fundamentalist movements before 1975 had to do with their dearth of leadership.  Conversely, the emergence of highly competent leaders helps explain the surge of the past two decades.  The excellent essays in Spokesmen for the Despised focus on this important personal angle; although the title seemingly refers only to fundamentalists of the Islamic variety, the volume also includes Jewish leaders (the Kooks, Moshe Levinger) and even an oddball Christian (Jan Willem van der Hoeven, a Dutch minister living in Jerusalem).  <br />Muslims fill most of the book however:  Khomeini, Fadlallah, Turabi, Yasin, and the lesser-known but significant Ahmad Isma`il of Minya, Egypt.  All the accounts bear careful reading; but especially so Martin Kramer's 99-page study of Fadlallah, an outstandingly subtle study of an outstandingly subtle figure.  Kramer traces the sheikh's early life, his sudden rise to prominence in 1984, and his career over the subsequent decade as the \\"spiritual leader\\" of Lebanon's Hizbullah.  Noting that \\"once he started talking, he never stopped,\\" Kramer sifts through a vast number of Fadlallah's interviews to distill his unchanging strategic aims (an Islamic state in Lebanon, the destruction of Israel) as well as his highly flexible tactics.  In Kramer's words:  \\"Demand Jerusalem but settle (for now) for the south [of Lebanon]; demand an Islamic state, then settle (for now) for a `humane' state.  In his plea for the despised, Fadlallah remained both pragmatic and principled.\\" And therein lies the danger he poses.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1688ETDR8QG7E	0679452451	849321688	Egypt's Road to Jerusalem:: A Diplomat's Story of the Struggle for Peace in the Middle East	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Egypt�s Road to Jerusalem	Boutros-Ghali chronicles his four years' of experiences working for Anwar as-Sadat, starting with the moment of his being appointed as minister of state for foreign affairs in 1977 and ending with the president's assassination in 1981.  Although the author was hardly a novice at diplomacy at the start of his account (having already served as a high official of the Arab Socialist Party), joining the government made him a front-row participant at such epochal events as the Sadat trip to Jerusalem, the Camp David negotiations, and the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty.  <br />True to his promise, Boutros-Ghali presents the memoirs he kept at the time raw, unimproved by later information, and they convey a candid sense of his errors and triumphs, his inconsistencies, digressions, and insights.  The memoirs somewhat paradoxically reveal a aristocrat, very conscious of rank and appearance, who has an abiding concern for Africa; and a politician threatened with violence by the Palestinians who nonetheless insists on dealing with their concerns.  But probably most interesting is how Boutros-Ghali came to appreciate Sadat's efforts.  Consumed with non-aligned and African conferences, the author started out slightly horrified by Sadat's concessions to Israel.  With time, however, he appreciated Sadat's extraordinary vision.  His epiphany came in April 1979, a few days after the signing of the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty, when he realized that \\"Egypt had sacrificed enough lives and money for the Arabs and the Palestinians.  The time has come for Egypt to think of itself.\\" By September 1979, he was \\"fully convinced by Sadat's argument\\" that getting back the Sinai mattered more than suffering isolation at political conferences. So public an acknowledgment of one's own failings is rare, and all the more creditable coming from as distinguished a personage as the former secretary-general of the United Nations.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	RANTI8HL7WG68	0822318458	587995207	In the Name of Elijah Muhammad: Louis Farrakhan and The Nation of Islam (The C. Eric Lincoln Series on the Black Experience)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	In the Name of Elijah Muhammad	Gardells impressive research results in a far richer and more subtle account of the NOI and Farrakhan.  Immersing himself in the writings of the movement and in much else related to it (such as its connections to the FBI, Muammar al-Qadhdhafi, and rap musicians) he has produced an impressively thorough account.  The study usefully covers other NOI branches, including the Lost Found Nation of Islam, the Five Percent Nation of Islam, and the Ansaaru Allah Community.  Heres where to find out about the NOIs tentative moves toward mainstream Islam, its connections to American neo-Nazis, and its challenge to the black Christian churches. Gardells book is highly unusual in one way:  although the author has many strange and tendentious ideas (that Reagan planned for a war on Libya in 1986, that Farrakhan is not an anti-Semite, that a mistress of Elijah Muhammads was his Islamic wife, that the 1992 Rodney King riots were the bloodiest uprising of the twentieth century), he does not slant the evidence but scrupulously offers information that directly disproves his own arguments.  Most readers of In the Name of Elijah Muhammad will want to read the study for its facts while keeping a distance from Gardells conclusions.<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R22RAJCGRPI8YV	9774243773	757926185	EGYPT ISLAM & DEMOCRACY	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Egypt, Islam and Democracy:  Twelve Critical Essays.	Ibrahim, a professor of sociology and director of the Ibn Khaldun Center for Development Studies, both in Cairo, offers one of the freshest, bravest, and most interesting analytical voices coming from the Middle East.  He repeatedly stirs controversies and gets into trouble by stating what may seem to Westerners obvious, but is highly contentious in the Arab countries:  for example, he holds that the Coptic minority in Egypt suffers from discrimination, that female genital mutilation should be stopped, that Anwar as-Sadats peacemaking was a success, and that Arab states spend too much on arms and not enough on social programs. Unlike so many Arab analysts, Ibrahim is preoccupied not with the sterile Arab-Israeli conflict but with bringing political participation and economic development to his region.    Given his sensible outlook, it is therefore dismaying to see how often Ibrahim gets elementary facts wrong.  In a single chapter dealing with ethnic diversity in the Arab countries, he makes numerical mistakes (236 million Arabs do not constitute 8 percent of the worlds population but half that number), chronological mistakes (misdating both the both the Lebanese civil war and the cold war), historical mistakes (ethnic groups in the Arab world remained long reluctant and skeptical of European offers of patronage in the nineteenth century?), geographical mistakes (including Israel in a table about the Arab world?), and political mistakes (foreign powers currently enjoy a hegemony over the Middle East?). If the author slowed down a bit and provided a more reliable analysis, his important conclusions would have yet more value.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1ON8COVBKVPCX	0465064361	876924993	Prophet Of Rage: A Life Of Louis Farrakhan And His Nation	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Prophet of Rage:  A Life of Louis Farrakhan and His Nation.	As his title suggests, Magida structures his account around the biography of Farrakhan, telling about his growing up in Boston, succeeding as an entertainer, joining the NOI, competing with Malcolm X, involving himself in Malcolm's murder, and, to his disappointment, not succeeding to the leadership of the NOI upon Elijah Muhammad's death in February 1975.  Farrakhan then felt increasingly alienated as the movement moved rapidly toward Sunni Islam; in November 1977, he finally announced the resurrection of the NOI.  Since then, he has been the organization's top theologian, administrator, and spokesman.  Magida reviews some of Farrakhan's record over the subsequent years (for example, his efforts to court mainstream black leaders), but focuses mostly on his complex relations with Jews.  In addition to the well-known anti-Semitic comments (Judaism is a \\"dirty religion\\"), Farrakhan also shows the typical anti-Semite's fascination with things Jewish (for example, structuring the Million Man March along the lines of a Yom Kippur atonement). <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R7L0A7BEW4OG3	0813330742	783938555	Perilous Prospects: The Peace Process And The Arab-israeli Military Balance	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Perilous Prospects	Cordesman stands back and looks in illuminating detail at two main subjects:  the relative strength of the Israeli vs. the Arab forces and the possible scenarios of war between the two sides.<br />Assessing the military balance, the author starts with formalistic lists of equipment and manpower, then peels away the externalities to get at the real strengths and weaknesses, the intangibles.  Crude numbers show Israel in trouble; a look at only the highest performance weapons shows Israels position to be somewhat better; and a consideration of the whole pictureincluding quality of personnel and training, readiness, forward leadership, technological competence, command and control, combined operations, waging 24-hour war, and deep strike capabilitiesshows Israel to have a force qualitatively better than that of its neighbors.  In this sense not much has changed from prior decades; indeed, Cordesman gives the distinct sense that Israels edge continues to increase.<br />As for scenarios, Perilous Prospects takes up eight in all, from a renewed intifada to an all out nuclear war, including a takeover of the Egyptian government by fundamentalists.  Perhaps most interesting, because otherwise so little noted, is the 35-page analysis of a Syrian grab for the Golan Heights, which Cordesman sees as a realistic possibility intended to create new facts on the ground and perhaps to alter the outcome of peace negotiations.<br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R2WZ0W0A6HGVR6	0714642231	72090380	The Jewish Exodus from Iraq, 1948-1951	Books	3	14	16	N	N	The Jewish Exodus from Iraq, 1948-1951	In a brief period during 1950-51, over 120,000 Jews fled Iraq and arrived in Israel; almost a half century later, this still ranks as one of the largest airlift operation ever in the history of population transfers. Although Iraqi Jews became a major stalwart of the new country, to this day they retain an undertone of resentment about the circumstances of their immigration.  Theories abound that Israel's agents subverted their comfortable place in Iraq to spur them onto the planes.   <br />Drawing on newly-released Israeli, British, and American archives, Gat offers a compelling account of the circumstances behind \\"Operation Ezra and Nehemiah.\\"  It's a tale replete with paradoxes and Gat deals with them in turn.  Iraq, the most anti-Zionist state, insisted that its Jewish population go forthwith to Israel.  At one point, the Israelis authorities gained leverage over their Iraqi counterparts by not taking in as many immigrants as Baghdad wanted to go. At other times, the two enemies were effectively cooperating, as when the Israelis decided to increase the pace of absorption and the Iraqis soon after responded by permitting direct flights from Baghdad to Tel Aviv.  <br />The author puts to rest the notion that Israeli agents used terrorism to get Iraqi Jews to make aliyah:  \\"there was no connection between the bomb-throwing incidents and the departure of the Jews.\\" The sudden rush to leave Iraq overwhelmed Israel's capacities and resulted not from mischief but from the Iraqi Jews' well-grounded sense of impending doom unless they took advantage of a unique chance to escape.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R2464U38ERNCRT	0684849739	431236317	The Bible Code	Books	1	10	15	N	N	The Bible Code.	Hands down, Drosnin (a former reporter for the Washington Post and Wall Street Journal) wins all awards for 1997's stupidest book about the Middle East.  He rearranges the 304,805 Hebrew letters of the Jewish Bible into a continuous letter strand and discovers in his much hyped study-lo and behold-that the holy book contains patterns of letters referring to virtually every modern event.  \\"Napoleon\\" turns up encoded along with \\"France,\\" \\"Waterloo,\\" and \\"Elba.\\" The main leaders of World War II appear jointly. \\"Economic collapse\\" appears along with \\"5690\\" (which equals the common year 1929).  The moon landing is dated to the correct day. Major cultural figures (\\"Beethoven\\" and \\"Rembrandt\\") are correctly identified.  Every major assassination of the past two centuries was \\"accurately detailed\\" in the Bible. It predicted the precise day when the Kuwait war would begin and even includes an event so small as the capture and murder of an Israel policeman in December 1992. <br />As might be expected, Drosnin often stretches facts to fit his scheme.  Finding February 25, 1996 associated with the warning \\"all his people to war,\\" he finds vindication in an Arab act of terrorism against Israel on that date. His patterns are sometimes barely visible. But perhaps most charmingly idiotic about his all-so-serious book is how the computer programmer who wrote the Bible already knew the modern Hebrew neologisms for such words as \\"autobus,\\" \\"subway,\\" \\"airplane,\\" \\"electricity,\\" \\"lightbulb,\\" and \\"computer\\"-all of which appear in its supposed code!  <br />But predicting the past is the easy part:  What comes next?  Well, Drosnin found the Jewish year 5757 (which ended in October 1997) associated with \\"holocaust\\"-a seemingly wrong call.  Other prophesies, yet to be determined:  that Binyamin Netanyahu will not live out his term as prime minister and a world war will begin in either 2000 or 2006. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R2FH94262ZT5V5	1877864463	466774893	Understanding Arabs: A Guide for Westerners (The Interact Series)	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Understanding Arabs:  A Guide for Westerners	An American supervisor in Tunisia reprimands a local employee for habitually arriving late for work, and does so in front of the Tunisians subordinates.  To which the employee replies in anger, I am from a good family!  I know myself and my position in society!  To which, no doubt, most Americans would respond with incredulity:  whos talking about family or social status?  But to Nydell, an Arabic language specialist with long experience in the Middle East, theres no mystery:  the Tunisian felt his honor had been threatened and was not at all concerned with addressing the issue at hand. <br />Much in this fine survey of Arab mores will surprise the novice; old hands might find explanations for recognizable but somewhat inscrutable patterns.  Some highlights:  Doing favors is much more a part of friendship among Arabs than Westerners. A good personal relationship is the most important single factor in doing business successfully with Arabs. To Arabs, honor is more important than facts. People are more important than rules. Good manners are the most salient factor in evaluating character. Nydell rightly points out that Westerners resident in Arab countries automatically belong to the upper class, with all the benefits (social prestige) and obligations (good grooming, no manual work in public) that that implies. Family loyalty and obligations take precedence over loyalty to friends or the demands of a job. Nothing path-breaking here, but true and useful insights.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R2W56APGEMSG37	0520207726	869372270	The Paradox of Plenty: Oil Booms and Petro-States (Studies in International Political Economy)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	The Paradox of Plenty:  Oil Booms and Petro-States.	\\"[A]fter benefiting from the largest transfer of wealth ever to occur without war, why have most oil-exporting developing countries suffered from economic deterioration and political decay?\\" In her long-awaited study, Karl offers a sophisticated cross-cultural reply to this question, focusing on the capital-deficit countries of Algeria, Indonesia, Iran, Nigeria, and Venezuela.  Finding inadequate the existing explanations that focus almost exclusively on economic disruption (the \\"Dutch Disease\\"), she notes the deep social and political roots of the problems and adds these much-needed dimensions to the discussion. <br />Her complex argument boils down to this:  oil booms (like all commodity booms) put enormous power in the hands of the state that suddenly has vast sums at its disposal.  \\"How these states collect and distribute taxes, in turn, creates incentives that pervasively influence the organization of political and economic life and shapes government preferences to respect to public policies.\\" In other words, \\"the origin of a state's revenues influences the full range of its political institutions.\\" What appears to be a chance to do almost anything, it turns out, is in fact a very circumscribed choice. <br />Though a Latin American specialist, Karl understands the Algerian and Iranian encounters with oil and has insights to offer all those who study Middle Eastern oil states-as well as those who lead them.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1CWXMVPDX3IOV	071468063X	919876063	Fabricating Israeli History: The 'New Historians' (Israeli History, Politics and Society)	Books	5	130	164	N	N	Fabricating Israeli History:  The �New Historians.�	Karsh (a professor of Mediterranean Studies at the University of London) presents the first full-length and detailed rebuttal to those Israeli scholars who call themselves the \\"new historians.\\"  This group, whose ranks include Benny Morris, Ilan Pappé, and Avi Shlaim, seeks to expose Zionism as a rapacious movement and Israel as the actor that bears nearly full responsibility for the Arab-Israeli conflict and the Palestinian plight. Noting that others have critiqued the new historians' ignoring important source materials, Karsh concentrates on proving that \\"the very documentation used by these self-styled champions of `truth and morality' reveals a completely different picture from that which they have painted.\\" <br />Elaborating on the argument first made in his June 1996 article in the Middle East Quarterly,  Karsh focuses on three main issues:  David Ben-Gurion's alleged endorsement of \\"transferring\\" Arabs out of the territory to become Israel, \\"collusion\\" between the Zionist movement and King `Abdallah of Jordan to snuff out a Palestinian state, and secret British support for this joint effort.  To establish his case, Karsh digs deeply into the documentary record, even going so far as to interpret crossed-out sections in Ben-Gurion's handwritten letters. That's all vital to making his case, but Karsh's key strength is the application of unprejudiced common sense to clarify issues clouded by the pseudo-scholarship of propagandists.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R6MUWW56GUA6M	0312172540	580032516	Instability and Conflict in the Middle East: People, Petroleum and Security Threats	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Instability and Conflict in the Middle East:	\\"[T]he turbulent history of the area does not augur well for stability; if it is not one country, it is another, and if it is not one issue it is another.\\" So do Abi-Aad and Grenon sigh toward the end of their book, having catalogued the Middle East's very many problems.  They look at power politics, ideology, military confrontations, and religious and ethnic differences.  They look in depth at the arbitrary borders of the region, the problems that arise from vast disparities in growth, in divergent oil and gas policies, in water discrepancies, demographic growth rates, migrations of workers and refugees, and the outside world's deep interest in Middle Eastern oil supplies.  <br />The total picture is a most unhappy one, and so is it when one looks at the issues one by one.  The region's border disputes they call \\"time bombs\\" that are \\"poisoning\\" relations between states. The potential for conflict over water \\"is at its most extreme\\" in the Middle East. The demographic explosion creates \\"some of the most difficult\\" challenges of the decades ahead. \\"Conflicts in the Middle East since the Second World War have produced the largest refugee flows\\" of any region. So pervasive has conflict been that \\"of the 260 years representing the cumulative age of the international export pipelines (crossing at least one state boundary), some 134 years of actual pumping, or only 52 per cent, have been recorded.\\" <br />The authors point out much else of note.  Remarkably little prospecting for oil is taking place in the Middle East; in June 1996, only 7 percent of the world's active exploration rigs were in that region. In 1991, Iran hosted more refugees than any other country. Iran and nearly all the Arab countries grew poorer in the decade 1985-94. In all, Instability and Conflict in the Middle East offers a useful primer to the troubles of a troubled region.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R2N4K9GC34JW93	0520208250	883637849	Between Marriage and the Market: Intimate Politics and Survival in Cairo	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Between Marriage and the Market	Continuing the excellent dissection of Cairene family life undertaken by several American-based scholars,  Hoodfar focuses on poor women and how they cope with the tribulations of daily life.  An anthropologist of Iranian origins teaching at Concordia University, the author spent a decade in Cairo doing research.  She has much to show for her efforts.  At base, she shows how much of a contract marriage is, and how this explains such patterns as the preference for husbands to be older than wives, the advantages of marrying within the family, a woman's need for parental approval of her husband, and the ridicule men face when they do housework (\\"men in the kitchen look like women\\"). <br />Most striking, Hoodfar shows the way in which patterns are changing:  how the Western ideal of a love marriage has an unsteady impact (\\"I married for love, but want my three daughters . . . to marry in the traditional arranged way\\"); the effect of waiting until later in life to marry; and the huge consequences of women being gainfully employed.  <br />Hoodfar's perceptive study points to family life in Cairo becoming with time less Western, not more.  For example, she finds that the immensely detailed marriage contracts now prevailing (which regulate everything from the wife's use of contraception to the number of meals with meat per week a husband can expect) \\"emerged only in the last few decades.\\" This in turn suggests that, superficial signs of convergence to the contrary, the Middle East in its essence is not Westernizing.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1RPK5ACW8WTLW	1558761152	760127988	Faces of Lebanon: Sects, Wars, and Global Extensions (Princeton Series on the Middle East)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Faces of Lebanon	Harris, an occasional resident of Lebanon since 1983 and now a university instructor in New Zealand, has produced the first reliable and readable history of Lebanon to appear in years.  The first section introduces the country's geography, sects, and politics; the second provides a routine but useful overview of Lebanon's political history from 1920 to 1989; and the final one breaks new ground in English by making sense of the country's recent past, dealing at length with the Michel Aoun's to throw off the Syrian occupation, then the consequences of Aoun's defeat.  <br />Harris is that rare foreign specialist of Lebanon who makes no excuses for the Syrian occupation there.  He notes that since Syrian troops gained nearly full control of Lebanon in October 1990, the regime of Hafiz al-Asad has treated Lebanon as \\"a conquered state\\" and calls this era the \\"years of stagnation and humiliation\\" for ordinary Lebanese. Harris rightly interprets Syrian actions in Lebanon-economic and cultural no less than political and military-as intended to stabilize Syrian primacy. He reports how the Lebanese have responded to life in the world's only remaining satellite state by trying, against overwhelming odds, to maintain a civil society.  His description brings to mind Poland in the 1950s, suggesting that while the Syrian yoke will be heavy and long, it will not permanently prevail. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R3T427YH9BFCCD	9004107916	200915345	The Revolution of 1908 in Turkey (Social, Economic and Political Studies of the Middle East and Asia, No 58)	Books	1	2	7	N	N	The Revolution of 1908 in Turkey.	In an ambitious attempt to rewrite the interpretation of twentieth-century Turkish history, Kansu argues that the key event was not what he disdainfully refers to as \\"coup d'&eacute;tat of 1923\\" that brought Atat&uuml;rk to power, but the revolution \\"in the fullest sense of the term\\" that took place in 1908 when the Young Turks took power from the Ottoman monarch and his bureaucracy, giving it instead \\"to representatives of the citizens with a view to establish the political as well as the economic supremacy of a new class.\\"  It's an interesting thesis, but it fails to withstand scrutiny.  Kansu's massive pedantry (this book constitutes just one-fifth of his doctoral dissertation!) chronicles some aspects of 1908's events in new detail, without establishing his point about the significance of those events, much less the insignificance of 1923.  His study presents a one-sided argument, and so resembles a lawyer's brief more than a balanced historical inquiry searching out the truth.<br />Kansu also displays the arrogance of the freshly-minted scholar who believes himself smarter than all his precursors.  Their work he dismisses as \\"mistaken\\" and \\"unsatisfactory\\" and he even casts aspersions on their motives with accusations that they try to \\"maintain\\" fictions and \\"mispreresent facts of tremendous importance.\\" In contrast, the author flatters his own conclusions with terms like \\"absolute certainty\\" and \\"painfully clear.\\" Kansu's conceit is particularly galling when one realizes that he repeatedly mischaracterizes the work of his predecessors,  and hasn't even bothered to use the most important recent study on his own subject.<br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	RGOSQRXZWU9WD	156836167X	667164071	Tales of Two Cities: A Persian Memoir (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Tales of Two Cities:  A Persian Memoir.	Milani, professor of social sciences at a small college in California, recounts an Iranian version of a classic twentieth-century tale.  Growing up in privileged circumstances, he felt discontented with his environment, discovered Marxism-Leninism (as well as much else) in the course of an education in the West, returned home to make revolution, and soon found himself in the right-wing regime's jail.  Then, when revolution did come, it brought an order even worse than the right-wing one, so he left the country and settled in the West.  Despite the title, the memoir deals mostly with one city (Tehran) and little with the other (San Francisco).  <br />In addition to its candor and appealing presentation, Milani's memoir contains a number of interesting points.  His early recollections reveal a dislike for Islam whose expression is most unusual in the post-Rushdie era.  \\"My childhood was contaminated with religion. . . .  Religion was synonymous with mourning and fear . . . [and] with incomprehensible rituals, occasionally violent, often filled with the pungent odor of body sweat.\\" Beyond religion, his unhappiness followed from an adult attitude that \\"Children were necessary nuisances.\\" Khomeini's unexpected success caused Milani to acknowledge his own ignorance about Iran and prompted him to do some serious rethinking.  Also of note is the improvement in the shah's jails that followed from Jimmy Carter's efforts:  \\"While I do not know how history will judge his presidency, I know that because of his human rights policy, I, and many like me, were spared much suffering.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1WPMW136APZ0Y	0813337852	233069734	Walls Built On Sand: Migration, Exclusion, And Society In Kuwait	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Walls Built on Sand	The author, a Vietnamese refugee married to a Norwegian diplomat, lived in Kuwait and makes good use of both her theoretical training and personal experiences to write an insightful study on the condition of Kuwait's migrant workers.  Tracing the current system back to its historical roots in pre-oil days, Longva shows the continuities between the indentured pearl divers of old and the domestics and chauffeurs in today's system. She deciphers the social signals of clothing and concludes that the characteristic white robe worn by Kuwaiti males (dishdasha) sends a strong signal of enfranchisement and social power, for it is almost exclusively worn by Kuwaiti men, the country's effective nobility.  <br />Longva delineates a social structure that includes six main groups:  Kuwaiti men on top, followed by Kuwaiti women, then Arab men, Arab women, Asian men, and, at the bottom, Asian women. Except for the first and last, all these groups are sometimes in a \\"male\\" (or superior) position, other times in a \\"female\\" position.  Symbolic of this topsy-turvy order is David, the friendly Indian who works in the lingerie department; his inferior status makes it appropriate for him to counsel black-swathed women on their underwear-something unimaginable for a Kuwait man to do. Middle-class Asians assert their status by parading the signs of their wealth. Longva's description of the way in which a temporary sejourn to make money \\"blurred and melted into a vague and widening project, the end of which was increasingly difficult to foresee,\\" ably captures the poignancy of the migrant worker's condition caught between two cultures, two places, and two lives.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1997	2001-07-31
US	43093648	R1JGK0QXI0YA0K	0062511343	882125015	Little X: Growing Up in the Nation of Islam	Books	2	3	10	N	N	Little X:  Growing Up in the Nation of Islam	The author's paternal grandparents joined the Nation of Islam in the early 1950s and by the time she was born in 1966, the family enjoyed a leading position in the Washington, D.C. temple.  With a memory that borders slightly on the unbelievable, Tate recounts her early childhood in the Nation, followed by her mother's conversion to mainstream Islam, the discovery of her family's religious hypocrisy, and then her own crisis of faith and exit from Islam, followed by a journalistic career that included a stint at The Washington Post.  Tate's account has particular value for giving a sense of the life of the poor but defiant life that NOI membership entails.  The awkwardness of being marked by NOI customs (clothing, diet, female modesty, no extracurricular activites or games) comes through as one strong motif (\\"I felt like an ugly duck\\"), plus the extreme relief at being able, once no longer a Muslim, to blend in with the crowd.  Tate makes vivid the narrow scope of her ambitions (\\"I knew . . . the only reason I was on this Earth [was] to become a good wife and mother\\") and  describes the total protection by her male relatives against non-NOI men (\\"If somebody made your sister cry, you gotta beat him up!\\") -- though, alas, not against non-NOI women and their cutting remarks. She recalls rumors of Fruit of Islam hit squads, the agony as an eight-year-old sitting straight through an eleven-hour temple service, and her Christian grandmother who tried to trick her into eating pork (\\"we knew better than to eat any pink meat\\"). More surprising is the author's endorsement of her education at an NOI elementary school, despite its obvious drawbacks (\\"We didn't have textbooks, so the dictionary pretty much became our spelling book\\").<br />Middle East Quarterly: Islam in the United States December, 1998	2001-07-30
US	43093648	R3P8LUNYK3PMQJ	031329951X	581229527	Competing Visions of Islam in the United States: A Study of Los Angeles (Contributions to the Study of Religion)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Competing Visions of Islam in the United States	GhaneaBassiri, an Iranian 174 doctoral student at Harvard, read widely, sent out a questionnaire, and talked to American Muslims.  The result is perhaps the most sophisticated study to date of Muslim attitudes in the United States.  He reaches two main conclusions.  <br />First, immigrant and convert Muslims alike share a deeply ambivalent attitude toward American culture.  They find immorality rampant in the country (\\"culturally retarded\\" is one interviewee's colorful term) 44 but see it as an exciting place of opportunity-not just for economic gain, but as a place \\"to live Islam.\\" 44 This ambivalence, GhaneaBassiri finds, has direct political implications:  \\"a significant number of Muslims, particularly immigrant Muslims, do not have close ties or loyalty to the United States.\\" 47 Indeed, his questionnaire shows that 12 out of 15 immigrants and even 5 out of 15 converts feel more allegiance to a foreign country than to the United States. 45   Second, GhaneaBassiri finds that Muslims in the United States \\"are undecided about what Islam is and requires.\\" 50 Taking advantage of America's unique religious freedom, they insist on exploring their Islamic identity and are bouyantly self-confident about their potential to lead the Muslim world. 57 This attitude, when coupled with the enormous ethnic and sectarian diversity of American Islam, translates into a disunity that has prevented American Muslims from influencing American politics. 101 <br />Middle East Quarterly, Islam in the United States December 1998	2001-07-30
US	43093648	R74GQQHIXRQCH	0890819831	24973850	The Islamic Invasion: Confronting the World's Fastest Growing Religion	Books	4	14	27	N	N	The Islamic Invasion:  Confronting the World�s Fastest ...	The contents of Morey's book are familiar from many previous Christian polemics against Islam-a dubious look at the Prophet Muhammad's life, at Islamic theology, and at Muslim history-but the intent is different.  In bygone eras, such a study would have had a missionary purpose; now, as the title and subtitle both imply, it is defensive.  Christians no longer expect to take their faith to the Muslims but fear conversions of their own to Islam.  The back cover asks, \\"As mosques appear across the country, people are asking -- `What do I need to know about Islam?'\\"  <br />Morey, executive director of the Research and Education Foundation, \\"an organization which investigates topics that affect Western culture and values,\\" offers an alarming answer.  He sees Islam primarily as \\"a form of cultural imperialism\\"  that seeks to impose the ways of seventh-century Arabia on twentieth-century America.  To back this up, he tells of visiting an African-American household and finding that its members \\"wore Arab clothing, listened to Arab music, and ate Arab food! . . .  They had abandoned American culture and adopted Arabian culture instead.  This is what Islam meant to them. \\"  He also cites a poll from the height of the Kuwait war which showed that  percent of Arab Muslims in the United States said they would not allow a child to fight for the United States and against Iraq.  Also in this spirit, the final chapter deals with the Nation of Islam, arguing against it in roughly the same way as the earlier chapters did against mainstream Islam.  <br />Middle East Quarterly:  Islam in the United States December, 1998	2001-07-30
US	43093648	RLQGPSP2PD16W	0802135978	211813514	The Farrakhan Factor: African-American Writers on Leadership, Nationhood, and Minister Louis Farrakhan	Books	3	3	3	N	N	The Farrakhan Factor:  African-American Writers on...	Alexander has assembled a potpourri of seventeen pieces about Farrakhan, ranging from the scholarly (by Ernest Allen, Jr. on the evolution of the Nation of Islam-the single best quick survey of this subject, incidentally) to the hysterical (by Leonard Pitts, Jr. on Farrakhan's ability to incense white Americans).  The short articles also range from the enthusiastic (Aminah B. McCloud lauds his \\"realistic road to solutions\\") 182 to the condescending (the editor:  \\"I find the idea of Farrakhan as Dangerous Black Leader a ridiculous proposition\\") 14 to the outraged (Itabari Njeri considers him \\"the worst thing that could happen to Black people at the dawn of the twenty-first century\\"). 240   If no consistency can be found in their approach or their views, one generalization can be hazarded.  Few of the authors, not even the several Muslims among them, take Farrakhan's Islamic aspirations very seriously.  Repeatedly, they stress that his unique place in the life of American blacks has been won despite the outlandishness of his cosmology and the severity of his way of life.  They see him rising to his current position of importance due to an ability to organize and to articulate African-American resentments, plus his perverse ability to alarm whites; 105 they attribute little role to the quasi-Islamic content of his mission.  <br />Middle East Quarterly: Islam in the United States December, 1998	2001-07-29
US	43093648	R37EPDMU6H8W32	1573921629	282055377	Women and the Koran: The Status of Women in Islam	Books	3	10	14	N	N	Women and the Koran:   The Status of Women in Islam	As the curtain of political correctness stifles the free discussion of Islam not just in the Muslim world but also in the West, it inevitably spawns a radical reaction.  When those with reservations about Islamic ways cannot acceptably broach their thoughts, they sometimes abandon the constraints of polite society altogether so as to let loose with their uncensored views.  Hekmat, identified only as \\"a distinguished\\" university professor living in the United States, clearly fits this description; his book offers an informed, harsh, and relentless critique of the status of women in Islam.  His is a book that could not appear in a Muslim language or a majority Muslim country.  <br />Relying on a mix of Arabic texts and secondary sources, he argues that \\"millions of Muslim females, under rigid and inexorable Islamic laws, have been deprived of their fundamental rights.\\" As his title suggests, Hekmat believes this status results not from the vagaries of history nor from the demands of the economy but from the Qur'an itself.  As he sees the Qur'an not as the word of God but the invention of Muhammad, he in effect ascribes the problems he describes to the personal habits of the man revered by so many as God's final messenger.  The bulk of the book consists of tying women's conditions over the centuries-with regard to polygyny, purdah, wife-beating, punishments for adultery, and divorce-to Muhammad's personal habits and passions.  While Hekmat's arguments are generally familiar, the appearance of so polemical book with such contents at this time constitutes a new kind of challenge for pious Muslims.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	REXUQ52P6XLIL	0275958078	874689681	Harry S. Truman and the Founding of Israel	Books	3	17	25	N	N	Harry S. Truman and the Founding of Israel	Everyone knows that Harry Truman provided help to the Zionists because he could count votes, and there were few Arab votes in 1948.  That, anyway, is the thesis developed by John Snetsinger in 1974  and since repeated ad nauseum.  Well, it turns out not to be true.  In a masterful and exciting presentation, Benson proves that Trumans policies resulted not from nose-counting but from deeply-held beliefs.  His pro-Israel outlook was based primarily on humanitarian, moral, and sentimental grounds, many of which were an outgrowth of the presidents religious upbringing and his familiarity with the Bible. Extensive research into Trumans biography and earlier career shows his impressive consistency.  Benson, of the University of Utah, establishes Truman as a studious child and deeply religious young man who, when he unexpectedly found himself in the Oval Office, lived faithfully by his precepts.  In the case at hand, he expressed sympathy for Zionism as early as 1939 and reiterated his views many times subsequently.    Trumans determination had great importance; of the many momentous issues in his presidency, he personally involved himself most directly with what he called the puzzle of Palestine. In Bensons words, these personal interventions against the entirety of the American foreign policy establishment constantly rescued the Jews from defeat. The author concludes that the standard account of Truman risking U.S. security interests for cheap political advantage is deeply unfair to this most moral and honorable of American presidents.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	R3URQOUAFJBRS3	0863722075	260454940	Making of the Gulf War: Origins of Kuwait's Long-Standing Territorial Disp	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Making of the Gulf War:  Origins of Kuwait�s Long-Standi	Rahman expertly fills a major scholarly gap by providing a detailed history of the Iraqi claim to Kuwait.  He dates the origins of an autonomous Kuwait to 1752 and marshalls an impressive array of contemporary sources, mostly British, to show that the sheikhdom retained its autonomy throughout the next one and a half centuries, until in 1899 it signed an agreement with the British government that placed Kuwait effectively under British protection.  This arrangement, it bears stressing, was initiated by the Kuwaitis themselves due to their fear of Ottoman expansionism southward from Iraq. <br />Hardly had Iraq become an independent state when its leaders began the campaign to annex Kuwait.  The first declaration about Kuwait as a \\"non-separable part\\" of Iraq was published in Baghdad by a government daily on May 16, 1933. Rahman analyzes a campaign that sometimes sought a border rectification and at other times aspired to take over the whole of Kuwait, then shows how it continued, with ups and downs, over six decades, culminating with the invasion of August 2, 1990.  The author convincingly concludes that the ugly boundary dispute behind that invasion \\"had its roots in the beginning of the twentieth century when the Ottoman Empire extended its power\\" southward toward Kuwait. Regrettably, Rahman does not draw conclusions from his historical study about the future, but his long tale of territorial ambition will leave most readers worried that Iraq's long-standing irredentism lives on, despite the many costs of defeat and deprivation.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	RD6K5HLY6CG1Y	0863569617	494841642	Post-Marxism And The Middle East	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Post-Marxism and the Middle East	The editor writes that the demise of the Soviet Union was \\"an almost apocalyptic event\\" that \\"left a sense of desperation and angst\\" among Arab Marxists. Given this state of misery, Post-Marxism and the Middle East has the feel of a project inspired by therapeutic goals as much as scholarly ones:  the fifteen contributors all being at least sympathetic to the Left, their collective book offers a chance to find a way out of that \\"desperation and angst.\\"  The contributors are \\"well-known academics, practicing politicians, or both,\\" and one third of them hail from the Middle East.  <br />Whatever its inspiration, the volume-or at least the first third that deals specifically with the Middle East (the rest offers a fairly routine review of international issues) -- offers a wealth of candid insights.  In perhaps the most interesting essay, Fred Halliday of the London School of Economics pronounces himself content for Marxism to define the political debate in Arab countries, without necessarily providing the answers, though even that minor achievement fades as Halliday sadly acknowledges that \\"the greatest success of Marxism in the Middle East may have been to provide the Islamists with much of their political vocabulary.\\" And in one passage, obvious to most of us but dramatic for a radical leftist, he flat-out admits that \\"Not everything can be ascribed to imperialism.\\" Jabar's essay usefully reviews the changes made so far by Communist parties (everything from their names to their theories) and even finds a silver lining in the Soviet collapse (less enmity from the United States and more freedom to experiment without risking Moscow's wrath). Even he, however, does not quite seem convinced that this will suffice to revive a movement once confident of its inevitable ascent and now so uncertain of its future.<br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	R1UO2LM1B1U3BK	0863721923	395012787	Muslim Communities in the New Europe	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Muslim Communities in the New Europe	The \\"New Europe\\" refers to a continent no longer split by cold war rivalries.  How does Islam compare in its eastern and western portions?  Actually, the comparison makes little sense, for in addition to their differing developments since 1945, the two parts host fundamentally dissimilar populations.  The eastern peoples are nearly all indigenous converts of centuries' long standing; the western ones overwhelmingly consist of immigrants who arrived after 1960.  <br />If the comparison of communities serves little purpose, the gathering of academic analysts within the covers a single volume does make one contrast strikingly clear:  that the easterners, formerly subjects of Moscow's writ, stand up for the secular approach so long exemplified by France, while the westerners, beneficiaries of this system, are more ready to weaken it through the application of group rights and multiculturalism. <br />The editor calls Islam in Europe a \\"neglected\\" field of academic study, a surprising remark in light of the voluminous literature on this subject, but an accurate one in so far as the general level of writing and analysis in this volume's sixteen essays leaves much to be desired.  Even so, it has some interesting points:  that 23 percent of Brussel's population under the age of 20 is Muslim; that Sweden is the country most transformed since World War II by immigration; and that Mussolini not only liked to portray Italy as a \\"friend of the Islamic world\\" but even as a \\"great Muslim power.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	R1JU0EONMAJISV	0312129068	917080657	The PLO and Israel: From Armed Conflict to Political Solution	Books	2	6	12	N	N	PLO and Israel:  From Armed Conflict to Political Solution	An all-star cast of sixteen academics, all but one either Palestinian or Israeli, attended a 1994 conference at Hebrew University; The PLO and Israel memorializes their deliberations.  The book bears close attention because, with only some exceptions (fine chapters by Hillel Frisch, Galia Golan, Meir Litvak, Shaul Mishal, Barry Rubin), one of Israels leading institutions has issued a document that for all intents and purposes serves as Palestinian propaganda.  In this it represents the thinking of Israels elite.<br />The apologetics begin in the subtitle, where the main question roiling Israel public life (are negotiations with the Palestinians leading to peace or not?) is flat-out assumed (of course it is).  They continue in the introduction by Sela, where he deems the post-1967 PLO an authentic Palestinian national organization, refers to intransigent Israeli hostility to the PLO (but not PLO hostility to Israel), and adopts such PLO terminology as the Palestinian revolution.  From here the drumbeat goes on.  Muhammad Muslih learnedly details the PLOs numerous peace initiatives between 1974 and 1988. Manuel Hassassians chapter on PLO changes in the thirty years to 1994 is subtitled a democracy in the making. The editors assure us that the PLO now adheres to the norms of international legitimacy. Eyad El Sarraj describes the sort of ecstasy induced by the intifada. And Baruch Kimmerling finds in the election of Binyamin Netanyahu proof that the Israeli Jews were not ripe for a reasonable settlement with the Palestinians.<br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	R5GRS59TKYUYB	0521483964	728309974	The Damascus Affair: 'Ritual Murder', Politics, and the Jews in 1840	Books	4	7	10	N	N	The Damascus Affair:  'Ritual Murder,'...	Frankel, professor of history at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has rescued a small but key event of modern history from ill-deserved obscurity.  In a very impressive and well-written account, he tells what happened in Damascus after an Italian monk and his servant disappeared in February 1840.  The newly-arrived but powerful French consul, Ratti-Menton, developed an entirely manufactured thesis of Jewish ritual murder that the local government in large part accepted, leading to the imprisonment, torture, and death of many Damascene Jews, followed by similar tribulations throughout the eastern Mediterranean. <br />But the real impact of the Damascus Affair, Frankel shows, lay in Europe, where it led to a formidable backlash against Jews, the greatest in years.  Jews found themselves completely unprepared for the tribulations they suffered but learned from this tragedy to organize and lobby, and from it came the first stirrings of modern Jewish solidarity, the basis of the formidable institutions that followed.  Frankel provides a particularly impressive review of the reactions to the far-away and long-ago events of his study, showing just how the to-and-froing between the Middle East and Europe on the matter of Jews became a major issue for all concerned.  In many ways, he shows, the grounds for the Wests involvement today in the Middle East were set in the terrible events of 1840.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1998	2001-07-28
US	43093648	RLKYWBWZH868Z	0520085914	948407583	Afghanistan: The Soviet Invasion and the Afghan Response, 1979-1982	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Afghanistan:  The Soviet Invasion and the Afghan Response, 1	Kakar is that rare and unhappy intellectual fated to an eventful life.  An Afghan who studied and published in the West, then became a prominent professor of history at Kabul University, his opposition to the Soviet invasion got him arrested by the communist regime in 1982.  Kakar spent the next five years in the notorious Pul-e-Charkhi prison, during which he had horrible experiences and witnessed even worse ones.  Kakars own life was spared, perhaps because of the interest in his case generated by American colleagues and Amnesty International.  Upon release, he fled to Pakistan; and in 1989 he immigrated to the United States, where he now lives (in San Diego).<br />Afghanistan is a monument of scholarship by an individual who lived closely through the events described (he tells of going onto his roof, for example, to watch the Soviet troops storm the presidential palace in 1979). Kakar kept a journal over the three years 1979-82 that exceeds one thousand pages; he also used his time in prison to interview a wide range of inmates.  Much of his information is new and his interpretations fresh.  At the same time, his is a work of unabashed passion.  The author presents a fiercely partisan history of his country, for example justifying the increasingly close contacts with the Soviet Union from the 1950s on, while presenting the Russian invasion as a bitter act of betrayal.  As for the United States, he believes Americans have a moral responsibility to the Afghans, and it is now time for them to assist in transforming the poisonous culture into a healthy one.  Indeed, this is more a threat than an appeal, for Kakar ends his tome with a warning that the poisonous culture . . . may grow too great to ignore:  in addition to the British graveyard in Afghanistan and the Soviet one, he warns there may also one day be an American one....	2001-07-28
US	43093648	RVMFZKRAM3O5X	1566630339	305496154	From Palace to Prison: Inside the Iranian Revolution	Books	3	1	2	N	N	From Palace to Prison: Inside the Iranian Revolution	Naraghi, a leading Iranian intellectual, has written an important and absorbing account of his experiences between September 1978 and September 1983. In part one, he recounts in great detail his eight conversations with Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi during the last, agonizing months of the shahs 37-year reign. Both sides of the conversation held considerable interestwe see the shahs desperate turn of mind and Naraghis intelligent insights into the monarchs problems (for example, he traces the shahs troubles to 1962, when his abrasive, anti-Islamic remarks forced the religious leaders to respond by becoming revolutionaries). <br />In part two, Naraghi recounts his three years in prison. Arrested twice because of his conversations with the shah and another time because he had been an academic mentor of Abul-Hassan Bani-Sadr, the ousted ex-president of Iran (as one of Naraghis friends correctly observed to him, Youre always on the side of the losers.). Naraghi offers a surprisingly benign view of the prison authorities. He portrays his time served as a unique opportunity to meet varied Iranians and even distinguished ones. Indeed, on his third arrest, the author admits that in all honesty the idea of making new and interesting acquaintances was not altogether displeasing to me.<br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1994	2001-07-27
US	43093648	REFECVETDDHZZ	0876091516	723545157	Oil Monarchies	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Oil Monarchies: Domestic and Security Challenges in the Arab	Oil monarchies\\" means the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, and Oman). In a very useful survey, Gause reviews the internal and foreign policies of the six states and concludes with some thoughts on U.S. policy.  Perhaps the author's most original argument concerns the allegedly traditional quality of the states in question. He notes that the advent of oil revenues gave the central governments unprecedented powers, which the rulers then used to limit the power of Islamic and tribal institutions, then dominate those domains. What we on the outside see as tradition \\"is in fact a construction of recent decades, in which rulers employ a political language redolent of Islamic and tribal overtones to convince their citizens\\" of their legitimacy.\\" To those who see the oil monarchies as fragile blossoms, Gause notes that they survived the era of Pan-Arab nationalism and look to outlast radical Islamic ideologies. Indeed, he calls their legitimation formulas \\"remarkably successful\\" and concludes that \\"they must be doing something right.\\" <br />Gause's only weak suit becomes apparent when he takes up U.S. policy. On the one hand, he would have Washington begin a dialogue with Tehran about the future of Iraq; on the other, he advises against American efforts to combat fundamentalist Islam or to increase female rights in Saudi Arabia. It's hard to say which is a worse idea. <br />Middle East Quarter, September 1994	2001-07-27
US	43093648	RV2ZDONB5KV1Z	029272490X	734188637	Children in the Muslim Middle East	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Children in the Muslim Middle East	Children in the Muslim Middle East successfully aspires to open a whole new topic.  Fernea brings together forty-one short pieces that range in area from Morocco to Afghanistan, in subject matter from orphanages to child soldiers, and in genre from scholarship and literature to speeches and lullabies.  Over thirty of the books contributors hail from the Middle East, and a fair number of chapters have been specially translated from Middle Eastern languages.  Together, they put Middle Eastern children on the research map.  <br />Chapter titles signal the childrens bleak status.  We learn of girls participation in combat (in Lebanon), of bodily mutilation of young females (in Egypt), and of working children in Cairo.  According to Hassan al-Ebraheem of the Kuwait Society for the Advancement of Arab Children, there are 90 million Arabic-speaking children, of which half today are threatened in their physical health by the dangers of hunger, poverty, and war. A majority of them, he reports, live in unsuitable dwellings, and 3,500 of them die each day from treatable diseases. <br />Then, of course, there is the particularly debased status of girls.  A sixteen-year old Turkish girl who does piecework sewing for her fathers business sums up the predicament of her sex:  I work, but I have no value. Nor are matters improving, for, as Fernea explains, in general colonialism intensified traditional family patterns, particularly those involving differentials of gender identity, and matters have changed little since independence.  Taking on new roles in society appears not to have helped the status of females.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RXXF8K5Y274UI	0810831767	612569284	Historical Dictionary of Syria	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Historical Dictionary of Syria.	Commins has taken on the heroic task of writing a one-man reference work, and it's proven a bit much for him.  Many entries merely scratch the surface, retelling well-known information without providing insight or new information.  Others are severely out of date.  The bibliography cites no travel book after 1980, thereby missing, among others, the estimable Syria by Coleman South in the Cultural Shock! series (London:  Kuperard, 1995).  The story of Mustafa Tlas, Syria's current defense minister, ends with his taking this position in 1972. The biography of Ma`ruf ad-Dawalibi closes in 1962, ignoring his many active years since. The entry on `Alawis fizzles out in 1960, just on the eve of their taking control of Syria and, for the first time ever, their becoming power brokers.  Information on the Greater Syria ideology ends in the 1950s, missing entirely the successes of Hafiz al-Asad in this domain. Likewise, the Syrian Social Nationalist Party also terminates in the 1950s. The history of Alexandretta ends way back in 1939, just as Syrian irredentism began. <br />Another problem concerns Commins' tendency to shade information to fit his views and biases.  In some cases, this means presenting supposition as fact, for example, asserting that in October 1990, \\"In a gesture of gratitude, the United States gave Syria the green light\\" to bring its Lebanese opponents to heel. In others, this means questioning well-established facts, such as his dismissal of Syrian support for the PKK organization as \\"allegations.\\"<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R3SZAVRPAITPT1	0231103050	872475043	Imperial Legacy	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Imperial Legacy	\\"In the Valhalla of past empires, the Ottomans should rank high.  In actual fact few major political systems have been so consistently ignored or misrepresented.\\" Imperial Legacy represents an attempt to right this wrong by assessing the Ottoman legacy many decades after its passing in those lands where the padishah once ruled; the editor dubs it \\"a collection of briefs for the court of history.\\" <br />The results can hardly be gainsaid.  In chapters on one arena after another-state boundaries, administration, diplomacy, the Arabic and Turkish languages, economics, military matters, Islam, and education-the authors show the wide, sometimes pervasive, impact of Ottoman institutions and practices.  This hardly comes as a surprise, given that the empire lasted over six hundred years, but the point does emphatically need making, and a luminary cast (Halil Inalcýk, Charles Issawi, Geoffrey Lewis, Bernard Lewis, André Raymond, Dankwart Rustow) effectively does so.  <br />Brown, professor emeritus at Princeton University, has emerged in the last decade as the Middle East's historian with the widest vision.  His International Politics and the Middle East:  Old Rules, Dangerous Game (Princeton University Press, 1984) is a path-breaking effort to find patterns in diplomacy over the past two centuries; and a multi-authored volume (co-edited with Cyril E. Black), Modernization in the Middle East:  The Ottoman Empire and Its Afro-Asian Successors (Darwin Press, 1993) ambitiously seeks to interpret the whole of modern Middle Eastern history.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R5Y9AHEOLBNQN	0195096959	994664368	Mawdudi and the Making of Islamic Revivalism	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Mawdudi and the Making of Islamic Revivalism.	Nasr makes large claims for his biographee, Sayyid Abul-Ala Mawdudi (1903-79), founder of the fundamentalist Jamaat-i Islami (JI) organization, deeming him without doubt the most influential of contemporary Islamic revivalist thinkers. And he says the JIabout which he wrote an earlier companion volume, The Vanguard of the Islamic Revolution -- influenced Islamic revivalism from Morocco to Malaysia and controlled the expression of revivalist thinking in Southwest Asia and South Asia since 1941. Large claims, to be sure, but Nasr easily shows just how consequential the man and his movement have been.  <br />Nasr has written a most sophisticated analysis; perhaps its key has to do with Mawdudis complex mix of the Islamic and the Western.  Typical was his notion of an Islamic state, which drew in large part on Western notions:  His debate with Western political thought was antagonistic, but it also assimilated Western ideas into his interpretation of Islam and the Islamic state. More broadly, he sought to transform Islam by making it more operational:  Mawdudi called Muslims back to Islam but to an Islam that was rationalized and streamlined so that its social expression would be able to support a viable political order. <br />Though himself frustrated in the pursuit of power, Mawdudis ideas provided much of the means by which Khomeini did ride to power, and that many other fundamentalists are still using in their challenge to the state.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R21OPD4RVTQA0S	0910250294	831984736	The Carrot and the Stick: Israel's Policy in Judaea and Samaria, 1967-68	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Carrot and the Stick	Two months after the Arab-Israeli war of June 1967 ended, then Colonel, now Major General (ret), Gazit found himself put in charge of the West Bank territories Israeli troops had just won.  His surprise at this appointment was exceeded only by the commands unpreparedness to rule well over a half-million Arabs.  Even the operational order for war issued on June 4, 1967 -- which clearly defined the mission of capturing the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Stripmade no mention of the need to establish a military government. As a result, confusion reigned and improvisation took over.  Gazit shows in fascinating detail how practices evolved out of a combination of the 1956 experience of ruling the Gaza Strip, the attitudes of Defense Minister Moshe Dayan, and exigencies of the moment.  An example of the last:  anger at the Jordanians for having placed a urinal against the Western Wall seems to have led to the clearing of a large plaza near the Wall, quite contrary to international law. Gazit shows that the principal guidelines of Israeli rule were established and consolidated during the first three months after the Six-Day War.  These included such profoundly consequential decisions as the annexation of Jerusalem, the open bridges policy toward Jordan, and the permission for Israelis to settle in the captured areas.  <br />Gazit provides an extremely informative account by drawing both on his personal experience and in-depth research on the evolution of Israeli rule.  Few books offer so much original information on the shaping of the current Arab-Israeli conflict.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R29X9F7N5FEG2X	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	5	425	558	N	N	Why I Am Not a Muslim.	Outraged by Ayatollah Khomeinis assault on Salman Rushdie, Ibn Warraq (identified only as someone having grown up in a country now called an Islamic republic, who is now living and teaching in Ohio) was galvanized to write an attack on Islam.  The result is a unique book; in contrast to Rushdies airy magical realism, Ibn Warraq brings a scholarly sledge-hammer to the task of discrediting Islam.  <br />With few exceptions, he relies almost entirely on the Western tradition of Islamic studies for insights on such varied subjects as the person and career of Muhammad, the treatment of women, and Muslim emigration to the West.  His conclusion is severe:  on balance, the effects of the teachings of the Koran have been a disaster for human reason and social, intellectual, and moral progress. From the beginning, Islam has been a fraud.  Muhammad probably never existed, or if he did, had nothing to do with the Quran.  Likewise, The whole of Islamic law is but a fantastic creation founded on forgeries and pious fictions. Islam succeeded through aggression and intimidation.  The early Islamic conquests, for example, were extremely aggressive:  Bowing toward Arabia five times a day must surely be the ultimate symbol of this cultural imperialism  Despite his anger, Ibn Warraq has written a serious and thought-provoking book that calls not for a wall of silence, much less a Rushdie-like fatwa on the authors life, but an equally compelling response from a believing Muslim.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RVN18YX9Z829U	0791426645	493455415	Intellectual Origins of Islamic Resurgence in the Modern Arab World (Suny Series in Near Eastern Studies)	Books	1	23	66	N	N	Intellectual Origins of Islamic Resurgence in the Modern Ara	Abu-Rabi&#8216; finds the origins of fundamentalist Islam lying as much in European colonialism as in Islam.  The latter &#8220;is as strong a component&#8212;sometimes negative, sometimes positive&#8212;in modern Arab societies as the Qur&#8217;anic impact on the Arab mind.&#8221; To prove his point, the author devotes half his book to the analysis of what he calls the &#8220;grandiose exegesis&#8221; of Sayyid Qutb, the vituperative Egyptian thinker who helped establish so many of modern fundamentalism&#8217;s main features, including its hatred of moderate Muslims and its anti-Semitism.  <br />To say that Abu-Rabi&#8216; is sympathetic to Qutb (and several other fundamentalist authors) would be an understatement.  In fact, he serves as their apostle to an English-speaking audience.  For example, he explains Qutb&#8217;s concept of intellectual imperialism, segues into his own elaboration of this topic, then returns to Qutb. Author and subject meld into a nearly seamless whole.   The sharp-eyed reader will not be surprised that Abu-Rabi&#8216; sanitizes a hateful brand of fundamentalism:  in the book&#8217;s acknowledgments, he thanks Ramadan &#8216;Abdallah (of the University of South Florida in Tampa) for reading his manuscript.  In October 1995, as this book was in press, Ramadan &#8216;Abdallah surfaced in Damascus as Ramadan &#8216;Abdallah Shalah, the head of Islamic Jihad, the most murderous anti-Israel outfit anywhere in existence.  As The New York Times headline about this story put it, &#8220;Professor Talked of Understanding But Now Reveals Ties to Terrorists.&#8221; No, the surprise is not that Abu-Rabi&#8216; apologizes for killers; but that the State University of New York Press should print such propagandistic ....  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R379DPEMOXGH2M	0253210038	476652871	The Gulf War Did Not Take Place	Books	1	58	186	N	N	The Gulf War Did Not Take Place.	No one can lack commonsense as much as an intellectual, especially a leftist one, and perhaps most of all a renowned French professor of sociology.  To show his brilliance, Baudrillard takes a perfectly obvious fact and devotes a book to proving it wrong.  In saying that the Kuwait war \\"did not take place,\\" he means that the fighting was so lopsided, it did not constitute a war.  Brushing aside American fears of heavy casualties, he deems that the war \\"was won in advance.\\" It was, in his view, \\"a shameful and pointless hoax, a programmed and melodramatic version of what was the drama of war.\\" From the American point of view, he claims, \\"no accidents occurred in this war, everything unfolded according to a programmatic order.\\" In all, the events of early 1991 stood in relation to war as computer erotics do to actual sex.<br />Baudrillard's exceedingly slight essay (a compilation of three articles published in the newspaper Libération) ceaselessly hammers away at these themes.  He stands midway between the United States and Iraq, faulting each of these main actors about equally.  For him, it is all aesthetics and ideology; the deeply important human, economic, and strategic issues raised by the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait disappear under the weight of his relentless abstraction.  Thus unconnected from reality, Baudrillard mangles everything from the French president's name to the number of traffic fatalities in the United States. The result is a book of profound error and transcendent stupidity, the most inane ever reviewed in these pages.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R346RB9QBR5FQF	0399140875	680906122	The Politics of Diplomacy	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Politics of Diplomacy:  Revolution, War and Peace, 1989-1992	Soon after becoming secretary of state, George P. Shultz noted that  unless you do something about it, in the job of secretary of state you will spend 100 percent of your time on the Middle East.  Every Secretary of State becomes a Middle East expert very rapidly, whether he wants to or not, he also stated.  . These observations remain valid today, when Warren Christopher has virtually become Secretary of State for the Middle East.  Baker had a similar experience.  Page one of his memoirs tells of Saddam Husayns invasion of Kuwait, the single most dangerous moment of Bakers three-years-plus as secretary of state.  Of the books thirty-four chapters, fully fifteen concentrate on the Middle East, primarily the Kuwait war and the Arab-Israeli peace process.  <br />Famously discreet when in office, Baker unbuttons a bit in the retelling.  He captures the atmosphere of his endless travels (he went to sleep on the eve of his Geneva meeting with Tariq Aziz, just before the outbreak of hostilities, as the chants from antiwar protesters echoed quietly up to our block of rooms) and the vagaries of dealing with Middle Eastern leaders (Asad treated his complaints about Syrian terrorism the way one might react to an eccentric uncle at family gatheringsas an unavoidable nuisance to be endured politely).  Baker also provides some new information; for example, in March 1991, he raised to Yitzhak Shamir the possibility of stationing U.S. troops on the Golan Heights. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2X1J4QJXVP0D	0748606173	702591216	Muslims in Western Europe (Islamic Surveys)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Muslims in Western Europe	Nielsen, an academic in Birmingham, England, who specializes on Muslim life in Europe, provides a very useful survey of the ten or more million Muslims in twelve countries, ranging from Spain and Italy in the south to Norway and Sweden in the north.  The contents are dry&#8212;a presentation of historical background, then of demographic, legal, educational, and political issues&#8212;but nonetheless chock full of interest.  <br />We learn that in the late nineteenth century, the Austro-Hungarian legal system applied Islamic family law within its courts (for the benefit of Bosnian Muslims); and that Queen Victoria&#8217;s personal physician was an Indian Muslim. The contemporary Muslim influx to Europe began in April 1957, when twelve Turkish craftsmen landed in Kiel, Germany.  France has by far the largest Muslim population in absolute and probably in relative terms, the most active Sufi movements, and by far the largest body of Christian converts&#8212;some 50,000, ten times the number in Germany or Great Britain. About 90 percent of British Muslims vote Labour. The Iraqi government sponsored a school for Muslim children in Denmark during the 1980s. The Belgian authorities recognize polygamous marriages, though they don&#8217;t permit such marriages to be initiated in Belgium. Muslim women have quickly adapted to European laws, for it is they who take the first step toward separation in five-sixths of divorce cases. As these few snippets suggest, intimate contact between two very different civilizations makes for stimulating and unexpected developments....	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R29I7QOQFLRNH5	0714641057	359661785	The Formation of Modern Iraq and Syria	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Formation of Modern Syria and Iraq.	Tauber continues the work begun in his two pathbreaking studies of 1993, The Emergence of the Arab Movements and The Arab Movements in World War. As in those volumes, he here establishes the basic facts of the Arab nationalism movement in the World War I era.  His main conclusion concerns the fate of the movement:  he deems Arabs, not Westerners, responsible for the dissipation of Arab unity in favor of Lebanese, Syrian, and Iraqi independence.  In the author's words, \\"there was no basis for placing the blame for the emergence of the local movements on the shoulders of European imperialism. . . .  When the peoples of the Fertile Crescent faced the choice, they preferred separate states.\\" In great detail, he shows how the Arabs of one region either feared or dominated those of others.  Some Syrians, for example, feared domination by Hijazis (residents of today's western Saudi Arabia) more than Zionists.  And, in fact, King Faysal (originally of the Hijaz) reigned but did not rule during his two years in Damascus, 1918-20.  Instead, the secret Arab society Al-Fatat was \\"the main political power\\" in the country during his time. <br />Tauber writes in the terse and relentlessly factual style that characterizes much of Israeli scholarship and many of Frank Cass's Middle East publications.  His exemplary scholarship has settled many of the abiding controversies of the World War I period.  But beware:  this superb study is not intended for any but the most serious reader.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R1NBPKNT6XL9C2	1567444989	626260427	Encyclopedia of Islamic Law: A Compendium of the Major Schools	Books	3	7	19	N	N	Encyclopedia of Islamic Law	As a large and growing body of Muslims speak English as a first language, reference works for believers are increasingly available in what was once the language of the orientalists.  Massive source books, such as the compilations of the hadith (accounts of the Prophet Muhammad's sayings or doings) now provide a fair representation of what previously had only been accessible in the traditional languages of Islam.  Bakhtiar takes credit for \\"adapting\\" the Encyclopedia of Islamic Law, which means that she has mostly translated one book  from Arabic, then reshaped it for an English-speaking readership.  <br />For the informed Muslim, the Encyclopedia serves as a handy reference guide to the four Sunni schools (madhhabs) and the one Shi`i (the Ja`fari).  To other readers, it provides a fascinating immersion into the world of Islamic jurisprudence in all its complexities, common-sensical variation, and stunning dissimilarity from modern Western life.  The titles of sections give their flavor:  \\"a disobedient wife,\\" \\"taking an oath to refrain from sex with one's wife,\\"  and \\"the inheritance of a fetus, disowned and illegitimate children.\\"  The five schools usually agree on essentials and disagree on details.  All schools concur on forbidding silk to men during prayer, Ja`faris alone permit it during illness or war. All concur that a traveler need not fast during Ramadan, but Shafi`is limit this exception to the occasional traveler, and not to someone who travels continuously for a living. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2DC5UHYXQMLVR	0906719305	813304595	Turks & Greeks: Neighbors in Conflict	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Turks and Greeks:  Neighbours in Conflict.	Books on the Arab-Israeli conflict fill a library, while the Lebanese civil war, the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and the Iraq-Iran War have each inspired a sizeable literature.  In contrast, the Pakistani-Indian and Turkish-Greek confrontations remain virtually unstudied in the West.  This lacunae makes even so elementary work as Turks and Greeks useful to a wide range of readers, for theres simply nothing like it.  <br />Volkan and Itzkowitz write from an emphatically Turkish point of view; the former is a professor of psychiatry of Turkish origins, the latter a historian of the Ottoman Empire.  As befits these two disciplines, they approach the Turkish-Greek conflict historically with a strong dollop of psychology thrown in, a dollop that some readers may well find too large.  Still, they have interesting points to make.  Perhaps the most intriguing has to do with the two concepts of Turkokratia (Greek, Ottoman rule over Greeks) and Hellenism (in this context, an ideology of Western European origins that calls on Greeks to adopt ancient Greek ways).  The authors note the extremely conspiratorial attitude of many Greeks toward Turks and argue that this results from hundreds of years of shared history followed by a need to live up to the Western ideal of Hellenism; to attain this, Greeks found it necessary to extrude all that is Ottoman about themselves, as well as to hate those who most obviously carry forward that legacytodays Turks. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R1P750NC0PO0YP	0300066589	43981577	Human Rights Watch World Report (Human Rights Watch World Report (Paperback))	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Human Rights Watch World Report 1996	About one-fifth of this global review of 1995 deals with the Middle East, and the picture of it is generally negative.  Algeria hosts \\"an increasingly ugly war.\\" The human-rights picture in Egypt is \\"dismal.\\" Use of the death penalty has expanded in Iraq. Saudi Arabia experienced \\"further deterioration.\\" The Sudan suffers from Draconian emergency laws, the enslavement of women and children, and increasing economic difficulties. The only two governments to get thumbs-up are Kuwait and Morocco, with \\"significant improvements\\" in both cases. <br />While Human Rights Watch and similar organizations do excellent work exposing individual abuses, in the aggregate, their efforts raise three troubling problems.  The first has to do with a near blindness to scale:  minor and occasional problems are seen as much the same as brutal and systemic ones.  When Turkey is said to have \\"serious problems\\" and Syria is a \\"tightly controlled society,\\" that one is an open democracy and the other a totalitarian despotism gets obscured.  In the literature of human rights, the censorship of a book is hardly different from mass murder.  Second, emphasis on human-rights to the exclusion of all else leads to myopic policy recommendations in which national interests are virtually abandoned.  For example, in the case of Turkey, the report implicitly criticizes the Clinton administration for not permitting human rights concerns to outweigh Turkey's role as an ally and a \\"big emerging market.\\" Third, an exclusive concentration on states means that such movements as Hamas and Islamic Jihad appear not to rate even a single mention.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2OOR3G4C7XMRG	0198280181	33988645	Syria and Israel: From War to Peacemaking	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Syria and Israel : From War to Peacemaking	The subtitle was supposed to read from war to peace, but a recalcitrant Hafiz al-Asad spoiled the symmetry.  This misplaced optimism in a Syrian willingness to end the conflict with Israel results from Maozs dubious conclusion that, as far back as 1988, Asad made the strategic decision to reach a political solution to the Arab-Israeli conflictpolitical, that is, and not military.  Unfortunately, the evidence that Maoz so scrupulously marshals does not support this thesis, rendering his coverage of events since 1988 somewhat hollow.  (If Asad has in fact given priority to a diplomatic rather than a military strategy, why has so little happened in eight years?)   <br />With this exception, Maoz has written an excellent survey of Syrian-Israeli relations since 1948.  He shows how the bilateral relationship of two states with a combined population of under twenty million, normally not of much interest to the outside world, in this case is of great interest indeed.  He recounts how they went to war four times and skirmished on countless occasions, how for many years each side represented a great power alliance, how their confrontation now dominates the military dimension of the Arab-Israeli conflict, and how complex is the diplomacy between them.  While conceding that the Palestinians are at the core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, he convincingly shows that the Syrians alone have manifested a consistent political and ideological hostility to the Jewish entity since the 1920s, and a military threat to Israels security since 1938. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RA2Y5RYVB3AD1	0878500944	559771350	Death and Exile: The Ethnic Cleansing of Ottoman Muslims, 1821-1922	Books	4	84	105	N	N	Death and Exile:  The Ethnic Cleansing of Ottoman Muslims	McCarthy has unearthed a horrifying and extremely important fact:  that in the course of the century between the Greek war of independence and World War I, the Ottoman Empire suffered five and a half million dead and five million refugees. He deems this Europe's largest lost of life and emigration since the Thirty Years' War. Christian suffering in this time and place is well-known; McCarthy shows the other side, that \\"Muslim communities in an area as large as all of western Europe had been diminished or destroyed.\\" His study minutely reviews the regions and wars, pulling information from foreign and Ottoman sources to produce a compelling account.  <br />Beyond the tragedy involved, this pattern of death and exile has a profound historical importance.  To take just three matters that the author raises:  It puts into perspective the deportation of Armenians in 1915 and turns this from an act of hatred into one motivated by fear (had the Armenians, with Russian support, rebelled, Ottoman Muslims could have expected to be slaughtered). Also, this legacy explains the modest and circumspect foreign policy pursued by Atatürk; \\"as a land of recent refugee in-migration and massive mortality,\\" his country was ready not to assert itself but to reform itself. Lastly, the massive immigrations to Anatolia mean that modern Turkey is (like France) a land of migrants; McCarthy estimates that one-fifth of the population descends from nineteenth-century refugees. This helps understand the country's acute sensitivity to current problems in Bosnia and Azerbaijan.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R3E3UM104SPXOC	0863721982	958804435	The Islamist Dilemma: The Political Role of Islamist Movements in the Contemporary Arab World (International Politics of the Middle East Series , Vol 3)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	The Islamist Dilemma	Academic specialists of Islam overwhelmingly agree on two points:  that Islamism (or fundamentalist Islam) can be divided into \\"moderate\\" and \\"extremist\\" elements; and that the former can prevail over the latter, ideally forming Islamo-Democratic parties along the lines of the Christian-Democratic parties found throughout Europe. In this spirit, the \\"Islamist dilemma\\" of the title refers to the challenges of Islamism's moving away from violence and toward political participation. <br />The editor suggests a solution to the dilemma with which all the contributors would largely concur:  integrating the Islamists \\"in a truly pluralistic context which defines the rules and limits of political competition.\\" To critics who would say that this approach has been tried in such countries as Algeria, Egypt, and the Sudan, she replies that \\"this strategy has in fact never been fully and consistently tried.\\" In the same spirit, Michael C. Hudson calls for \\"full inclusion\\" of Islamists in the political process while Shireen T. Hunter declares that Islamists in power \\"would have little choice but to come to terms with the West.\\" <br />To all this delusion, the nonspecialist can only shake his head in wonder.  As in the case of prior radical utopian movements of the twentieth century, the specialists are trying to convince us that this one can be successfully accommodated and co-opted, but never confronted.  But, pray tell, how exactly were the fascist and communist menaces beaten?  Why should it be different this time?  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2O2E46LXVV9YY	088728261X	452281858	The Gaza Strip: The Political Economy of De-Development	Books	1	8	49	N	N	The Gaza Strip	Though her ostensible subject is Gaza, Roy's emotions are engaged when the subject is Israel.  The Israeli government, she writes, \\"has attempted to dispossess Palestinians of their political and cultural patrimony through the direct expropriation of their economic resources.\\" So intense is her hatred of things Israeli that Roy finds normal language inadequate.  Instead, she reverts to archaisms (its military occupation since 1967 has been \\"malefic\\") and neologisms (its policy in Gaza has been one of \\"de-development,\\" a term she made up to mean the \\"deliberate, systematic destruction of an indigenous economy by a dominant power\\").  Even when the Israelis do something right, such as subsidize the growing of carnations in Gaza, Roy finds that the Palestinians \\"suffered considerable losses\\" from the program, due to the capriciousness of the Israeli marketing company. As for the Declaration of Principles (DoP), the less said, the better:  Roy writes that this agreement \\"will not alter the underlying relationship between occupier and occupied, only its form.\\" <br />When Palestinian sympathizers like Roy dismiss Yasir Arafat as a sell-out for having signed the DoP, it invariably prompts the thought that they are less interested in the welfare of Palestinians than with the opportunity to vent spleen at the Jewish state.  Its academic trappings aside, this would seem to a be a book whose purpose first and last is to discredit Israel.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RE8ND0C7N6T9E	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	168	181	N	N	The Middle East:  A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years.	In a remarkable survey of Middle Eastern history, Lewis improves greatly on prior accounts.  First, he starts not with the seventh century, when Islam originated, but goes the whole way back to the time of Jesus.  This has the distinct virtue of placing Islamic history in context, rather than seeing it as an almost complete innovation.  <br />Second, Lewis aspires to do more than recite names and dates; he hopes to convey something of the texture of Middle Eastern life.  His is a thoroughly modern history, full of striking details and illustrative personalities.  While some of his information will no doubt be familiar to a reader with basic knowledge of the Middle East, Lewis draws extensively on his own original research, insuring that much of his book will be novel even to the most practiced Middle East hand.  <br />Third, the author resists the small-minded orthodoxies of political correctness.  Lastly, the book is exceedingly well written.  Recently dubbed \\"one of the great prose writers of the last fifty years,\\" Lewis has a knack for the vignette, the turn of phrase, and the telling quotation.  <br />Lewis wrote his first published article in 1936 and celebrated his eightieth birthday earlier this year.  The Middle East is a fitting capstone to his long career, surveying with broad strokes so many of the topics he has previously written about in more detail.  The reader can now benefit from this lifetime of study within the covers of a single book.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, Sept 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2GZUCVIWSFUZQ	0838634338	132542170	New Encyclopedia of Zionism and Israel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	New Encyclopedia of Zionism and Israel.	Just as Israel stands out from the rest of the Middle East in its basically Western orientation, so does scholarship about Israel differ from that about the rest of the region:  unlike the fairly primitive state of research elsewhere, Israel studies can match those of any Western stateas the excellent New Encyclopedia proves.  (Its new because it builds on a 1971 edition, The Encyclopedia of Zionism and Israel, edited by the late Raphael Patai, adding about 30 percent more material). <br />The two-volume work contains major essays on such topics as Hebrew literature, the history of Israel, immigration to Israel (aliya) and U.S.-Israel relations.  The allotment of space is sometimes puzzling:  why devote over 7 pages to the Zionist Organization of America but just a quarter-page to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee?  Does the United Nations deserve 13 pages compared to David Ben-Gurions 3?  Topics include not just the requisite individuals, institutions, places, and events, but also entries one might not expect:  insurance in Israel, Zionism in India, Jewish liturgical music in Israel, and the Israel Aircraft Industries.  The volumes are illustrated, mostly with historical photographs of both charm and interest.    Although filling only 2 volumes, the New Encyclopedia has about as much information as other 4-volume books (including the Encyclopedia of the Modern Middle East and The Oxford Encyclopadia of the Modern Islamic World).  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R21CDN437HSBSL	0813013593	767800279	Christian-Muslim Encounters	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Christian-Muslim Encounters.	Relations between Christians and Muslims go back nearly 1,400 years and have been troubled on many levels through nearly that entire span of time.  The twenty-eight contributions to this substantial tome do not offer an overview of these complex interactions but constitute a miscellany of journal-type articles-interesting in themselves but too scattered to provide a coherent picture.  Some authors deal with theological issues (\\"What say ye of Muhammad\\"?) while others concern themselves with the issues on the ground (communal relations between Muslims, Christians, and Hindus in the Indian state of Kerala).  We learn about such arcana as the impressions of early modern French travelers of Muslim death practices and the attitude of John Calvin on Islamic theology; but nothing about the Crusades or the attempted assassination of Pope John Paul II.  <br />Even so, the scholarship does point to some major themes:  (1) the Christian-Muslim experience on every level has been primarily one of confrontation, from military to theological; (2) bright spots have appeared increasingly over the centuries, as believers of liberal spirit on both sides have sought to go beyond hostility; and (3) even as the masses continue the antagonistic relations of old, some religious leaders are trying to reach out and find common ground.  So far, however, these efforts are more notable for the goodwill that animates them than for their actual accomplishments.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R17HQN1D2G8LW3	0520200721	15950758	Men, Women, and God(s): Nawal El Saadawi and Arab Feminist Poetics	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Men, Women, and God(s):  Nawal El Saadawi and Arab Feminist	Saadawi (b. 1931) is an Egyptian woman, a medical doctor, a prolific writer, and the Arabic-speaking worlds most outspoken and radical feminist.  Without exaggerating, Malti-Douglas writes that No Arab woman inspires as much emotion as Nawal El Saadawi.  No woman in the Middle East has been the subject of more polemic.  Certainly, no Arab womans pen has violated as many sacred enclosures. Malti-Douglas then devotes over two hundred pages to analyzing Saadawis overheated rhetoric and bad novels, calling on all the usual feminist tropes (title and subtitle give their flavor, as do such chapter headings as Paradigms of Violation and Rewriting Patriarchy).  <br />This predictable feminist lionizing of one of its own holds little interest to the general reader, but Malti-Douglas does raise an intriguing issue when she reports on the clash between Saadawi and her equally leftist intellectual (male) opponents in the Middle East.  They would have her stay quiet about the appalling female condition in their countries and try to delegitimize her writings as Orientalist feminism. To which Malti-Douglas replies that Anti-imperialism can easily become a trap through which nationalism, while seeking to defend the native against the outsider, really defends those in power in the native society. Saadawis feminism, in other words, proves a source of unusual sympathy for the West.  The importance of these epithets?  Another sign of the intellectual lefts weakness:  caught up in a web of its own inconsistencies, it (unlike the fundamentalist right) cannot even figure out its outlook on the West.	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R3D666MQKNYRWT	0226508870	921769364	Fundamentalisms Comprehended (The Fundamentalism Project)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Fundamentalisms Comprehended.	Finishing its work in five volumes rather than the projected six, The Fundamentalism Project concludes with a monument of scholarship, a survey and interpretation likely to remain the fullest and deepest consideration of the fundamentalist phenomenon for decades to come.  The volume's star-studded cast (including Gabriel Almond, Wayne C. Booth, Ernest Gellner, S. N. Eisenstadt, and Emmanuel Sivan) has been put to work at what it does best-comparing and contrasting fundamentalism in the Jewish, Christian, Islamic, and South Asian religious traditions. Chapters break ground in dealing with such topics as humor in fundamentalist circles (more prevalent than one might think) and a literary analysis of stories about finding true faith.  Throughout this volume, as the project as a whole, the assumption reigns that \\"fundamentalisms\\" are a similar phenomenon across religions.  <br />Fundamentalisms Comprehended contains too many theories to convey here; suffice to note two, from the introductory and concluding chapters.  In the first, Sivan argues that the key allure of fundamentalist movements lies in their \\"enclave\\" nature, their offer of group identity and taking part in a social network.  Therefore, those most attracted to fundamentalism are neither the blatantly oppressed nor the poor but rather the subordinated and the alienated-anyone from American suburbanite commuters stuck at midlevel in large corporations to dwellers of shantytowns in Tehran or Cairo. A trio of authors closes the study observing that fundamentalism has far better political prospects in authoritarian states than in democratic ones:  if suppression by the former does not \\"root out these movements,\\" the \\"temptations and challenges\\" of the latter force fundamentalists to huddle in their enclaves, where they pose little danger to the state. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R2ICSDTIJZVJNV	0789200309	713673185	Morocco: Sahara to the Sea	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Morocco:  Sahara to the Sea.	Cross, a photojournalist living in Princeton, New Jersey, roamed Morocco and took home a superb collection of photographs.  Her pictures range from the characteristic keyhole arches of the royal palaces to naked chickens hanging in the butcher's shop, and they cover several of Morocco's most picturesque regions.  In particular, Cross has an eye for colors, whether in clothing, plants, animals, buildings, or landscape.  <br />But there's something wrong with this postcard-like album, and it's modern life, carefully excised from nearly every picture.  Morocco celebrates the non-Western and the old.  The two brief forewords by the eminent writers Paul Bowles and Tahar Ben Jelloun set the tone, lauding Olde Morocco (\\"The beauty of the countryside is never flawed\\") and implicitly disdaining its modern counterpart.  If a photographic collection is to portray reality, however, it has to record the full range of life, not just the exotic and archaic.  Only a very few scenes hint at a Morocco that's not timeless:  in particular, one picture shows a building in downtown Marrakesh plastered with posters (in English) advertising \\"Police Action III\\" and \\"Platoon Leader.\\" After so many scenes from centuries past, this one feels oddly authentic and even fresh.  Had Cross only shown some children in cement schools, commuters in buses, and old men watching television, she would have captured not only the beauty of Morocco but also its current reality.  <br />Middle East Quartely, June 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RTQJXB3OSKSZA	9211005965	890296357	The United Nations and the Iraq-Kuwait Conflict 1990-1996: Vol IX (The United Nations Blue Books Series, V. 9)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The United Nations and the Iraq-Kuwait Conflict, 1990-1996.	Documentsmostly but not exclusively from the United Nationsare the star here, taking up 700 pages.  Implicitly recognizing that the United Nations had only a minor role until the fighting ended in February 1991, nine-tenths of the documents date from the period since then, presenting the sanctions regime in all its military and economic complexity.  They contain very little legalese or U.N. self-importance and lots of substance, including much hard-hitting analysis (a human rights report by Max van der Stoel, for example, cites Iraq as one huge prison). <br />A reader looking for Boutros-Ghalis few perfunctory introduction lines might look in vain and conclude that they got omitted.  Not so; the secretary-general is credited for the fine 113-page analysis that opens the volume.  Lest it be assumed that this be a courtesy for the U.N.s chief executive, note that he cut his teeth as a professor of international law and, in addition to other books in this same U.N. series, compiled prior such books.   But Boutros-Ghalis text, for all its virtues, is prisoner to the unique U.N. perspective.  The first paragraph lauds that organization for acting as a powerful instrument for international peace and security.  The second presents the Iraqi assault on Kuwait as the first instance since 1945 when one Member State sought to completely overpower and annex anothera bit of revisionist history that ignores other such instances (Israel and Bosnia) where more controversy reigns.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	RRKMGIG34PKTN	0714646016	157123108	The Hashemites in the Modern Arab World: Essays in Honour of the late Professor Uriel Dann	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Hashemites in the Modern Arab World	Decades ago, an author rightly called the Hashemite familys having ruled Mecca for a millennium, almost without interruption, one of the more remarkable phenomena of history. But it did so in obscurity, only to burst onto the world scene with World War I and the Arab Revolt.  For ten glorious years, from the Husayn-McMahon correspondence of 1915-16 (in which London supported Hashemite aspirations to found a pan-Arab caliphate) until the Saudi conquest of Mecca in 1924 (which effectively ended those Hashemite aspirations), the family plausibly laid claim to lead the Arabic-speaking world.  Then failure set in, as the Hashemites lost Syria, the caliphate, Hijaz, and (much later) Iraq.  Only the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, that modest remnant of a great ambition, survived the general collapse.  <br />In a well-designed and lively volume, Tel Aviv Universitys Dayan Center has taken the welcome step of assessing the twentieth-century Hashemite experience as a whole.  It does so in three parts, one each dealing with the Hijaz kingdom, Iraq, and Jordan.  In addition to the more conventional analysis, such as Joseph Nevos exemplary study of King Abdallahs memoirs, several of the essays draw on unusual sources or deal with unusual topics.  Ami Ayalon interprets the Hijaz kingdom via its postage stamps.  Jeffrey A. Rudd (the one non-Israeli essay writer in the volume) finds gold in a protracted British government debate over whether to spell the new countrys name Irak or Iraq, seeing in this a metaphor for basic disagreements on larger issues.  Martin Kramer recounts the peculiar history of Eugène Jung, the Hashemites French booster.  Michael Winter shows that Jordanian textbooks before 1967 were among the most radical in the Arab worldnot a little surprising given that countrys moderate politics.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-26
US	43093648	R3MRFJ83SFJCIL	1860642225	764851202	Turkey: A Modern History	Books	3	32	64	N	N	Turkey: A Modern History	Zürcher, professor of history at the University of Amsterdam, has written a synthetic account of Turkey over the two centuries 1789-1991.  The book will probably become the standard English-language account, for it is fast-moving, comprehensive, and reliable.  By looking at the Young Turk and the Atatürk eras as a single whole, stretching from 1908 to 1950, it offers valuable new insights into a time too little understood.  As for the future, Zürcher sensibly concludes that the country's two main problems are inflation and the Kurdish question. <br />At the same time, Zürcher's text reflects the anti-Turkish biases regretfully so prevalent among Europeans.  On the incendiary issue of Armenian genocide during World War I, he writes that \\"this author at least is of the opinion that there was a centrally controlled policy of extermination, instigated by the CUP [i.e., the top leadership].\\" Without condemning Atatürk, Zürcher knocks him down a peg or two.  Here we learn that his rule had \\"totalitarian tendencies.\\" There we are told that his ideology \\"lacked coherence and . . . emotional appeal.\\" In another place, we find out that his interpretation of the Turkish national movement \\"distort[s] the historical picture.\\" Instead of this grudging attitude, it would be more helpful if the author (and Europeans in general) celebrated the Republic of Turkey as a success story and as a model for the Muslim world to emulate.  The Turks need that boost; and the outside world very much needs for them to succeed in their bold, Atatürkist experiment.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R1IF8VMWSYF0NC	0674455215	422378564	Inside the Arab World	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Inside the Arab World	\\"The Arab world has not been a happy or successful place in the last fifty years, and the misery and disenchantment of the people has recently become acute.\\" So reads the first line of &quot;Inside the Arab World&quot;; most of the large volume that follows buttresses and amplifies this statement.  Field, a journalist, reviews the history of Arabic-speaking countries since World War I, then provides a survey of current issues (economics, democracy, Arab-Israeli conflict, relations with the West).  His information appears to rely in large part on his many trips to the Arab countries over a twenty-seven-year period.  <br />The result is a well-informed and timely survey.  Some of Field's hard-hitting opinions make a whole lot more sense than others.  Yes, he's right that \\"[t]he Arab world has become a more sober and realistic place since the mid-1980s.\\" No, he's completely wrong that \\"religion is not the cause of conflicts but provides a rallying point for conflicts that are basically economic or political.\\" Of particular interest is the chapter on the Saudi economy, where Field argues that the manufacturing businesses have become commercially viable. <br />It is nearly impossible to tell the extent to which Field relies on other authors' writings for he provides hardly a single citation.  That raises a question about the publisher:  however skillfully done, why does a university press put out such a nonscholarly essay by a knowledgeable insider?  Is there no distinction now between a trade publisher and a university press?  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R22CXIFDW5Y782	0863722113	836500849	Nasser: The Final Years (Ithaca Press paperbacks)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Nasser: The Final Years	During Gamal Abdel Nasser's difficult three-year period between the Six-Day War and his death, he employed Farid as the secretary-general of the Presidency of the United Arab Republic.  Farid joined Abdel Nasser at most of his meetings and took minutes.  He kept hold of those documents and now, a quarter-century later, has made them publicly available; these startling transcripts both round out the character of a charismatic figure and go far to setting the record straight on his final years.  <br />The meetings reveal many aspects of Abdel Nasser's rule:  we can cover three here.  The Six Day War clearly traumatized him.  The Middle East Quarterly has already published (March 1995, p. 93) excerpts from Abdel Nasser's candid repudiation of his own regime and his remarkable call for more democracy.  This resulted from a deep shock:  \\"I can't forget what I went through during the first few days after the war in June.  I felt intensely, indescribably bitter.\\" <br />Relations with the Soviets turn out to have been as tense as between Mafia dons, with each side constantly maneuvering to best the other, sometimes through trickery. As for Abdel Nasser's general approach to foreign affairs, he summed it up in February 1970 in advice proffered to his protégé, Mu`ammar al-Qadhdhafi:  \\"try to work with more than one side and with more than one state so that you will guarantee an international balance and so that all of them will be competing to establish good relations with you.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R3J0T5PRIRM2CB	0313266492	800421356	Political Parties of the Middle East and North Africa (The Greenwood Historical Encyclopedia of the World's Political Parties)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Political Parties of the Middle East and North Africa	While previous multi-author books have surveyed political parties in the Middle East (notably &quot;The Encyclopedia of Political Systems and Parties&quot;, published by Facts on File, 2nd edition, 1987), none has attempted the detail and comprehensiveness of the volume under review.  Still, the editor goes a bit far in trumpeting his volume as \\"an excellent reference work that is unique in its field.\\" More accurate would be to say that with some exceptions (excellent analyses of Morocco by David M. Mednicoff and on Turkey by Jacob M. Landau), it provides a workmanlike and useful overview.<br />Fourteen chapters concentrate on single countries, ranging from Morocco in the west to Iran in the east, from the Sudan in the south to Turkey in the north.  Predictably, the chapters on Lebanon and Turkey take the most space, given the complex political life in those places, followed by Algeria and Israel.  Libya requires the fewest pages, followed by Tunisia and the Sudan.  One chapter deals with all the Gulf Cooperation Council countries together (they get so little space on account of the rudimentary state of their political parties), and one covers the Palestinians.  The book concludes with a particularly helpful genealogy of parties, making it possible to see how often one begat another.<br />Two commonsensical patterns emerge from the many details:  political parties have greatly proliferated in the past six years, since the collapse of the Berlin wall; and fundamentalist parties have replaced nationalist ones as the region's most dynamic.<br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R33V5MAEVJP4ZV	0691086540	573343078	Avenues of Participation: Family, Politics, and Networks in Urban Quarters of Cairo (Princeton Studies in Muslim Politics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Avenues of Participation	Singerman spent years living in \\"popular\\" (i.e., poor) parts of Cairo and came away with a fund of knowledge. In &quot;Avenues of Participation&quot; she explains many of the subtleties of everyday Egyptian life and then, with great verve, shows the significance of these patters for the government. <br />Perhaps the most fascinating of her explanations have to do with marriage. As every resident in Cairo will testify, the subject of marriage comes up in conversation almost hourly. Singerman shows why: because marriage involves not just a man and woman but also their entire families; and because it has huge implications for their social, economic, and even political lives. \\"Parents organize their savings and consumption strategies to be able to finance the marriage of their children, sacrificing their material comfort for the future of the family-not unlike parents in the United States who begin saving for a child's college education as soon as he or she is born.\\"<br />Singerman explains how, on a national scale, the drive to finance marriages has profound implications for the state. The jam`iyat, a huge network of informal savings associations, keep most capital out of the state's hands; the preoccupation with saving a penny here and a penny there causes many Egyptians to live so close to the edge, they depend on subsidized food-making it difficult for the government to cut subsidies; and the millions of Egyptians who emigrate to countries like Libya and Iraq earning money for marriages tie the government's latitude in conducting foreign policy. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R12SEG84N2J2C7	4770017030	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia	Books	4	13	13	N	N	The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia	As in &quot;Like Hidden Fire&quot; (reviewed in Middle East Quarterly, March 1995), his exemplary account of German and Ottoman cooperation against the British Empire during World War I, Hopkirk here tells the tale of the nineteenth-century Russian-British face-off in Asia. Again, wherever possible, Hopkirk tells his story \\"through the individuals, on either side, who took part in the great imperial struggle, rather than through historical forces or geopolitics.\\" This approach has the advantage of bringing to light many remarkable individuals obscured by the passage of years; it also has the disadvantage of leaving the reader somewhat uncomprehending about the deeper causes or consequences of the action-packed pages he's read. <br />&quot;The Great Game&quot; rightly conjures up romantic visions of valor and deceit, for this century-long contest did inspire more than its share of remarkable deeds; at the same time, of course, it was a bloody, unforgiving confrontation with its quota of victims and even of massacres (most notably, the British at Afghan hands in 1842). Perhaps most memorable about the Game is its unending oddities and unexpected twists. For example, Lt. Richmond Shakespear in 1840 convinced the khan of Khiva to release the many Russian slaves toiling away in Khiva, not out of compassion for the captured Russians but to prevent Moscow from finding a pretext to invade Khiva. The tsar had to pretend delight with this operation; in private, however, he was furious at the gambit. &quot;The Great Game&quot; really does live up to its reputation.<br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R3UQRLEWI0G5JI	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Nine Parts of Desire	Books by journalists tend to contain errors of fact, roughshod generalizations, and questionable judgments.  They usually provide masses of routine and well-known information.  How refreshing, then, this study of Muslim women by The Wall Street Journal's former Middle East correspondent.  It boasts not just a well-researched base but much new information and a strikingly new thesis.  Brooks manages that rare mix, the immediacy of a reporter's experience and the solidity of a research paper.<br />   Each chapter in &quot;Nine Parts&quot; deals with an aspect of the female Muslim life, both the usual subjects (virginity, weddings, education) and the less so (commerce, politics, warfare).  Perhaps the most colorful chapter deals with the Islamic Women's Games in Iran, where men could attend the opening ceremony but not the actual competitions-so that women could get on the track and strip down to their Lycra shorts.  <br />The most valuable aspect of Brooks's reportage is to show the diversity of fundamentalist Islamic approaches to women.  Most striking is the contrast between Saudi Arabia, where women have effectively no public role, and Iran, where they serve in parliament and are steadily pushing back the limits.  This leads the author to an unexpected but persuasive conclusion:  \\"I found the brightest hope for positive change camouflaged among the black chadors of devout Iranian women.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R111AYW7TIED1D	1850438358	423246240	Violence and Diplomacy in Lebanon (Violence & Diplomacy in Lebanon)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Violence and Diplomacy in Lebanon	Salem, in charge of foreign affairs during the whole of Amin Gemayel's presidency and a distinguished professor of politics, provides a detailed insider's view of his country's politics during some of its most turbulent years.  His candid and full account offers much new information on the May 17, 1983, agreement with Israel, the withdrawal of American troops from Beirut, the discussions to reform Lebanon's political system, and Gemayel's unsuccessful effort to appoint a successor.  <br />But even more interesting are the many vignettes salted through Salem's personable memoir.  In late 1987, at a time when Saddam Husayn and Hafiz al-Asad were aligned on opposite sides of the Iraq-Iran War, the two men met at an Arab League summit and \\"were seen walking together and joking.\\" A mere fifteen minutes before his presidential term was about to expire, Gemayel invited Michel Aoun to form a government; to make matters stranger yet, Gemayel had previously been close to firing Aoun from his position as army commander. <br />Judging from Salem's anecdotes, jokes play an important role in diplomacy.  In a get-acquainted breakfast with Ronald Reagan in the family quarters at the White House, the affable host's efforts at humor left a nervous Gemayel ever more tense. When Salem went to Damascus to lobby the Syrians to accept the May 17 agreement, Syria's foreign minister signaled his government's rejection of the accord by making a joke about it:  \\"[H]umour was substance,\\" Salem wryly comments. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	RE5M0UFS5PV5V	0674291409	741147063	The Failure of Political Islam	Books	1	17	48	N	N	The Failure of Political Islam	Political Islam a failure?  Roy, a very knowledgeable French analyst of Islam, knows developments in the Muslim world well, so \\"failure\\" in his vocabulary obviously refers to something other than conventional political power.  In fact, he means by failure that the drive for political power (dubbed Islamism) is giving way to a less ambitious focusing on the family and the mosque (neofundamentalism). Tehran furthers Islamism, Riyadh sponsors neofundamentalism.  Outside of Iran itself, he argues, Islamism has failed and the weaker cause of neofundamentalism has flourished.  Roy grandly declares \\"the Islamic revolution is behind us,\\" even in Iran:  \\"[T]he Tehran of the mullahs,\\" he asserts in an astonishing passage, \\"has a very American look.\\" Fundamentalist Islam, accordingly, poses no great challenge to the West.  \\"Today, any Islamist political victory in a Muslim country would produce only superficial changes in customs and law.\\" <br />Roy's well-translated book is replete with fine insights and memorable epigrams.  (My favorite:  \\"There are happy Muslims; there are no happy Islamists.\\") But he is stunningly mistaken about fundamentalist Islam.   Just because fundamentalists have not yet swept the Muslim world does not preclude them from doing so in the future.  Indeed, Roy has already been proven wrong.  The original French-language version of &quot;The Failure of Political Islam&quot; having appeared three years ago, the time lag exposes his complete misunderstanding of the situation in Algeria, where he expected a \\"watered down\\" Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) not to amount to much.  FIS is yesterday's organization, surpassed by the Armed Islamic Group (GIA).  The GIA's activities alone-murdering the children of police officers, women without veils, unsympathetic journalists, and non-Muslim foreigners-repudiate Roy's prediction of fundamentalism's becoming tame.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R9VT0ECFGIK9C	0691033781	983646800	Under Crescent and Cross: The Jews in the Middle Ages	Books	4	30	46	N	N	Under Crescent and Cross	It has often been asserted that in medieval times, Jews living in the Muslim lands had it better than their co-religionists in Christendom. Is that assessment accurate? Cohen, professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton University, attempts an answer in this first-ever book on the comparative history of Jewish life in the two civilizations.<br />Yes, he concludes, Jews were better off in the Muslim world. In part, this was a matter of physical security. \\"The Jews of Islam, especially during the formative and classical centuries (up to the thirteenth century), experienced much less persecution than did the Jews of Christendom.\\" Living among Sunni Muslims brought other benefits as well, which Cohen meticulously and convincingly documents: in Dar al-Islam, Jews enjoyed a more regular legal status, they participated far more in the mainstream cultural life, and they had more social interaction with the majority community. In all, Jews living among Muslims were less excluded, making them less vulnerable to assault. Of particular interest, while Christians had a horror of intermarriage, Muslims allowed it on condition that the man was a Muslim. Indeed, Islamic law requires the Muslim husband to permit his Jewish wife to observe her religious rituals, to pray within the family house, to keep the Sabbath, and to maintain the kosher requirements. She may also read her Scriptures, on the important condition that she not do so out loud. <br />Cohen's study ends with the thirteenth century; we would be much in his debt were he to follow this pathbreaking and excellent study with another on the subsequent deterioration of the Jewish position in the Muslim world. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R37XQPVIOQXFDP	0275946215	313934581	America and the Holy Land (With Eyes Toward Zion)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	America and the Holy Land	Americans have for two centuries had a special tie to the Holy Land, and Davis, professor emeritus of American Jewish History and Institutions at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has devoted much of his career to illuminating this connection.  <br />The somewhat casually written volume under review includes such interesting facts as:  In 1788, during the Constitutional Convention, the Hartford Courant published a letter from a reader who argued that the president of the United States should not also be commander-in-chief, on the grounds that \\"should he hereafter be a Jew, our dear posterity may be ordered to rebuild Jerusalem.\\" In contrast, the first Zionist declaration by an American politician came in 1819, when John Adams wrote, \\"I really wish the Jews again in Judea an independent nation.\\" Emma Lazarus, author of the inscription on the Statue of Liberty and of the lines about \\"Give me your tired, your poor,\\" also believed that Jews would find their haven in Eretz Yisra'el. Mark Twain wrote of American pilgrims to the Holy Land that \\"they could no more write dispassionately and impartially about it than they could about their own wives and children.\\" Nearly four hundred villages, towns, and cities in the United States have names from the Jewish Bible, ranging from the twenty-seven incidences of Salem to the whole pseudo-biblical geography around Salt Lake City.  <br />Davis argues that these many signs point to an attitude of considerable political importance:  \\"helping the Jews in Eretz Israel not only conformed to the spirit of America but enhanced it.\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2HP2IF8AZUHHI	0415907853	121292375	African American Islam	Books	1	4	13	N	N	African American Islam	The largest ethnic body of Muslims in the United States is not Iranian or Egyptian but American blacks. Statistics are notoriously difficult to ascertain, but they probably number several hundred thousand. Their ranks include such artists as Ahmad Jamal (the jazz musician) and Queen Latifa (the rap singer) and such sports figures as Muhammad Ali and Mike Tyson (the boxers) and Kareem Abdul Jabbar (the basketball player). This body of believers is deeply divided, with mainstream Muslim groups on the one side and an exotic growth of homegrown communities on the other. <br />Unfortunately, McCloud tells little about these interesting topics. Instead, she provides rudimentary information about the groups (who started the organization, when it split, and so forth) without explaining their key features or conveying their spirit. The chapter on women has a distinctly apologetic tone. To make matters worse, McCloud gets basic facts wrong about Islam (there is no Islamic practice of taking shoes off when entering a house) and betrays some very strange political ideas (in one passage, she refers to \\"the atrocities committed by the United States\\" in the outside world). <br />Oddly, writing on this subject as a Muslim made McCloud's task all the harder: \\"because I am a Muslim, many communities were even more suspicious than usual about my motivation.\\" Routledge, publisher of shelves full of distinguished books on Islam, slipped up on this one. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2SK9QYVV264AN	0684823470	531384529	Beyond the Promised Land: Jews and Arabs on the Hard Road to a New Israel	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Beyond the Promised Land	At first glance, it appears Frankel has written yet another in the sequence of prominent American journalists&#8217; books about Israel and the Arabs.  But his book differs from those by David Shipler and Thomas Friedman in two respects:  his topic is not the Arab-Israeli conflict but Israel; and he has a specific thesis that pervades the volume.  The title makes that thesis clear:  by &#8220;beyond the promised land,&#8221; the author means that Israel is, chrysalis-like, emerging from its Zionist stage (&#8220;a small, collectivist, mobilized garrison-state under siege&#8221;) and entering something very different (&#8220;a more open, pluralistic, bourgeois and democratic country&#8221;).  The author welcomes this &#8220;new Israel,&#8221; as he calls it, arguing that it is &#8220;much closer to the benign fate that Herzl and others originally predicted&#8221; for the Jewish state. He draws on his three-year residency in Israel during 1986-89 and subsequent trips to the country to produce a lively, chronologically-oriented argument to back up this thesis, one inspired by an affection for and a familiarity with his subject matter.  <br />So far, so good.  But Frankel&#8217;s account suffers a fault that suffuses the book and much reduces its value:  he has an acutely partisan view of Israeli politics, admiring Labor and nearly despising Likud.  In a typical passage, he terms the change of government in 1992 the ending of &#8220;right-wing Likud domination&#8221; and &#8220;a return to the more pragmatic, less ideological rule of the left-of-center Labor Party.&#8221; \\"Beyond the Promised Land\\" would have been a much better book had the author reigned in his prejudices.	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2SJMK0Z15G6IL	0415024552	85563152	Turkish Politics and the Military	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Turkish Politics and the Military	Hale, of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, has established himself as one of the West's leading specialists on Turkey, and his new book shows why.  With much knowledge and intelligence, he deals with one of the central issues in modern Turkish history, \\"the Turkish armed forces' political experiences, and their position in the political system as a whole.\\" <br />While Hale's detailed narrative goes back to 1960, the most interesting and original section concerns \\"the general and apparently voluntary disengagement of the military from the political system after 1983.\\" This disengagement involves two main developments:  the military's withdrawing from day-to-day administration of the country and its no longer seeing military policy as its exclusive preserve, outside the control of elected politicians. The remaining exceptions to Western norms are today in two areas:  southeastern Anatolia, where the PKK campaign is underway; and in an arrangement whereby the chief of the general staff reports to the president (rather than the defense minister). As a result of the army's disengagement, Hale argues that by 1993, \\"the possibility of yet another military intervention seemed further away than at any time in the country's post-war history.\\" If he's right, Turkey has entered a new political era.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	RZCJ09RKRHD6R	071483162X	597115351	Allah O Akbar	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Allah O Akbar: A Journey Through Militant Islam	The Iranian-born photographer Abbas, a staff photographer for Magnum Photos in Paris, travelled in twenty-nine Muslim countries from West Africa to China in an effort to try the pulse and flavor of fundamentalist Islam.  Abbas, who makes no bones about the fact that his religion is artistic creativity, finds the whole phenomenon slightly repulsive even as it fascinates him.<br />   The hundreds of black-and-white pictures in &quot;Allah O Akbar&quot; will likewise repulse and fascinate the reader, as will Abbas's fast-moving, intelligent text telling of his experiences as a photographer.  Violence and death features prominently in these pictures, from the Qur'anic teacher in the Sudan bearing a whip to a profusion of slaughtered animal parts to the appalling parade of young Iranian men triumphantly carrying the corpse of a prostitute they had burnt to death.  Many fascinating pictures concern women:  one very modestly covered Algerian art student diligently paints a naked male statue while an Egyptian zoology student covered from head to toe (including black gloves) looks from under her cowl into a microscope. An Afghan bride participates in a marriage ceremony at which the groom is represented only by his picture (he's off in Germany); a belly dancer performs in a social club at a Renault company social club in France; and two women sit together on a Moroccan beach, one veiled and the other in a tanktop swimming suit. <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	RG83DC1NMWJR0	0813321492	875217339	A Sense Of Siege: The Geopolitics Of Islam And The West (Rand Study)	Books	2	9	17	N	N	A Sense of Siege	Fundamentalist Islam has been a growing presence in the Muslim world for a quarter-century, but only in the past year or two has it become a major policy issue for Americans.  Should the U.S. government engage in dialogue with fundamentalist groups seeking power?  Is there such a thing as a moderate fundamentalist?  What steps should be taken to prevent fundamentalist-inspired violence within the United States?  <br />While many scholars and journalists have written books on fundamentalist Islam, &quot;A Sense of Siege&quot; may well be the first full-length study of relations between it and the West.  The study offers the excitement and the flaws characteristic of such initial efforts.  Fuller and Lesser take up a wide range of policy-related issues and handle them with knowledge and sophistication.  For example, they note that while fundamentalists have no basic hostility to the free market, \\"[r]ealistically, the Islamists will face immense pressure to adopt a populist set of policies.\\" Less impressive, the authors adopt a position of moral relativism on the matter of troubled ties between the West and the Muslim (\\"no one side is more right than the other\\")  Worse yet, they urge Americans to see the fundamentalists not as power-hungry ideologues but as spokesmen for legitimate grievances; this leads them to advise in favor of a soft policy toward fundamentalism.  Agree with them or not, however, Fuller and Lesser have done much to advance the debate with this insightful volume.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R1RITR0R7ZKOP4	0415024552	85563152	Turkish Politics and the Military	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Turkish Politics and the Military	Hale, of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, has established himself as one of the West's leading specialists on Turkey, and his new book shows why.  With much knowledge and intelligence, he deals with one of the central issues in modern Turkish history, \\"the Turkish armed forces' political experiences, and their position in the political system as a whole.\\" <br />While Hale's detailed narrative goes back to 1960, the most interesting and original section concerns \\"the general and apparently voluntary disengagement of the military from the political system after 1983.\\" This disengagement involves two main developments:  the military's withdrawing from day-to-day administration of the country and its no longer seeing military policy as its exclusive preserve, outside the control of elected politicians. The remaining exceptions to Western norms are today in two areas:  southeastern Anatolia, where the PKK campaign is underway; and in an arrangement whereby the chief of the general staff reports to the president (rather than the defense minister). As a result of the army's disengagement, Hale argues that by 1993, \\"the possibility of yet another military intervention seemed further away than at any time in the country's post-war history.\\" If he's right, Turkey has entered a new political era.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2KJLIU2II45LM	0195091159	893036798	The Young Turks in Opposition (Studies in Middle Eastern History)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Young Turks in Opposition	Hanioglu, an associate professor at Princeton University, has opened up a virtually new topic with his intensive research of the thinking, structure, and activities of the Young Turks between 1889 and 1902.  He argues persuasively for the importance of this topic by pointing out that Young Turks ruled the Ottoman Empire for nearly all of the period 1908-18; that former members ran the country until 1960; and that even today, the official state ideology shows the influence of ideas dating to that period. Perhaps Hanioglu's most original conclusion concerns his argument that the Young Turks constituted three quite distinct movements. <br />The research base of &quot;Young Turks in Opposition&quot; deserves comment, being one of the most prodigious this reviewer has seen.  Hanioglu's relatively slight text of 216 pages contains over 2,500 footnotes, or some twelve per page, or one every four lines.  And what footnotes!  The author has done extensive research in the archives of twelve countries, including those of Albania, Greece, Israel, and Sweden.  His work in the Turkish archives includes not just the usual Istanbul documents, but with those located at the Ottoman embassies in London, Paris, and Rome.  He searched out the private papers of twenty-four individuals in places as disparate as Thessaloniki, Edinburgh, and New Haven.  The list of periodicals consulted runs to over five pages.  This heroic scholarly apparatus is by no means for show purposes; quite the contrary, it closely undergirds the author's weighty and original study.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, June 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2RA7AFSG9MWWK	1883642108	464532053	The Mystery of Arafat	Books	5	18	23	N	N	The Mystery of Arafat	The chairman of the Palestine Liberation Organization has long puzzled observers, including his biographers (note the titles of two books about him published in 1990:  &quot;Behind the Myth:  Yasser Arafat and the Palestinian Revolution&quot; and &quot;Arafat:  In the Eyes of the Beholder&quot;).  How has someone so deeply flawed as an individual and a leader managed to achieve so much and acquired so much authority?  Rubinstein, a columnist at the Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz, makes answering this \\"mystery of Arafat\\" the goal of his book.  \\"How is it that someone who looks so strange and is so lacking in seriousness can at the same time be considered a statesman and revolutionary of the first order?\\" In his slight but rich study, Rubinstein takes up basic questions about Arafat:  Where was he born?  What is his real name?  Why does he look so grubby?  Why does he travel so maniacally?  Why did he get married on the sly?  <br />With brilliant insight, the author shows that every aspect of Arafat's public persona-from his stubbly face to his doing business late at night-fits a single pattern.  In all these ways, he has \\"accurately and persistently . . . reflected the distress and the needs of the Palestinian public.\\" Rubinstein convincingly shows how everything Arafat does (even not shaving) seeks \\"to provide the Palestinian revolution, of which he is the center, with legitimacy.\\" Arafat's success, in other words, derives from his being able to create a myth in which his own personality fuses with the Palestinian cause.  In 1995's Middle East book of the year, idiomatically translated, Rubinstein really does solve the Arafat mystery.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R2H1X5LYZ8OFJW	0684870525	153754215	Guarding the Secrets: Palestinian Terrorism And a Father's Murder of His Too-american Daughter	Books	4	33	40	N	N	Gurarding the Secrets	In November 1989 in St. Louis, the FBI inadvertently tape recorded the entire episode of a teenage girl's being killed by her Palestinian father and Brazilian mother (the Feds were looking for evidence of terrorism, which they also found).  In a ghastly eight-minute sequence, Zein Isa stabbed his daughter Palestina thirteen times with a butcher's knife as his wife held the girl down and responded to Palestina's pleas for help with a brutal \\"Shut up!\\"  The killing ends with Zein screaming \\"Die!  Die quickly!  Die quickly! . . . Quiet, little one!  Die, my daughter, die!\\"  By this time, she is dead. <br />Harris, a St. Louis television reporter, has done admirable spade work going through the court transcripts and interviewing everyone connected to the case in an attempt to piece together the interlocking stories of family murder and active support of Abu Nidal's terrorist organization.  In addition, she successfully conjures up the small and exceedingly unpleasant world of Zein Isa and his family of rabid anti-Americans living right in the American heartland.  The murder culminates their lives of frustration, greed, and vulgarity.  Unfortunately, Harris spent more effort digging up information than she did writing the book; so the more-than-casual reader must read and reread its pages to piece together the sequence of events and the scope of the Isa family's involvement with Abu Nidal.  Doing so repays the effort, however, for Harris has compiled a treasure trove of materials on two usually elusive subjects.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1995	2001-07-25
US	43093648	R54QJZHXM7W2A	1856492311	868348803	Iraq Since the Gulf War: Prospects for Democracy	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Iraq Since the Gulf War	An all-Iraqi cast of eighteen authors has combined to put together the single most informative book on today's Iraq.  In outlook, the authors (all in exile, of course, except for a few in the Kurdish autonomous region) extend from Marxist to Kurdish nationalist, but all of them share a seriousness of purpose spawned by Saddam Husayn's horrors.  Their subjects range from the abstract (Kanan Makiya on the need for tolerance) to the specific (Rend Rahim Francke on the makeup of the Iraqi opposition).  <br />Two articles particularly stand out:  Suha Omar argues that the improvement of women's rights in Iraq is a sham.  The government insists on at least five children per mother and uses the General Federation of Iraqi Women to police women and to procure them for high officials.  Omar concludes that, given the realities of Saddam's Iraq, \\"women's equality before the law and their right to vote and hold office are sources of pain and oppression rather than pleasure and liberation.\\"  Faleh `Abd al-Jabbar explains that the anti-Saddam revolt of March 1991 (called the intifada) failed because the exiled opposition leadership misjudged the mood in Iraq, \\"overestimating the strength of Saddam's appeal to Iraqi patriotism.\\"  Had the exiles been more bold, he writes, they could have led the Kurds and Shi`is to victory over the despot. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R1XHGV7SXV3GPN	0275944026	277586452	Wasta: The Hidden Force in Middle Eastern Society	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Wasta: The Hidden Force in Middle Eastern Society	\\"Understanding wasta is key to understanding decisions in the Middle East, for wasta pervades the culture of all Arab countries and is a force in every significant decision. . . . Wasta is a way of life.\\" What is this mysterious force? Nothing very surprising: wasta is Arabic for connections, pull.<br />  To study wasta, the authors focus on Jordan in the no doubt correct expectation that the phenomenon there broadly represents what's to be found elsewhere in the Muslim Middle East. They find that wasta has changed over time. Patrons who used to help their followers mostly for reasons of prestige now seek money rewards. Also, its main goal has changed from defusing tribal conflict to acquiring economic benefits: \\"Wasta evolved from conflict resolution as a means of survival to intercession to maintain one's place of honor in contemporary Jordan.\\" Wasta has a positive side (humanizing the bureaucracy) but also serves as an \\"affirmative action for the advantaged\\" which has the effect of entrenching the haves and excluding the have-nots; it makes life miserable for concientious officials trying to live by the law but called on by family obligations to help their own. <br />Though social scientists, Cunningham and Sarayrah avoid jargon and considerately consign the theoretical passages to separate chapters. As a result, Wasta not only provides insights into an overlooked facet of Middle Eastern life, but is a pleasure to read. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R1FLEY60RG5BUI	0313291861	197420683	The Economy of Iraq: Oil, Wars, Destruction of Development and Prospects, 1950-2010 (Contributions in Economics & Economic History)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The Economy of Iraq	Alnasrawi does not so much survey the Iraqi economy as concentrate on two key aspects, the oil industry and the Ba`th Party's policies.  The latter includes not only specifically economic decisions (such as the various national development and investment plans) but also the enormous impact of Saddam Husayn's two wars (against Iran and the Desert Storm coalition) on Iraq's economic destiny.  The author concludes his study with a particularly interesting consideration of Iraq's economic future.<br />   Alnasrawi begins this assessment by noting that (measured in 1980 prices) Iraq in 1960 had a GDP of about $8.7 billion.  Thanks mainly to oil exports, the economy grew to the point that in 1979 it reached $54 billion.  Then, thanks to Saddam's many mistakes, it declined to $10 billion-or, about where it had been thirty years earlier.  But things are actually worse than they appear, for Iraq's population tripled in the intervening years, meaning that the per capita income in 1993 was about a third of what it was in 1960.  (And given recent trends, it is probably yet much lower in 1995.)  In fact, per capita income has by now reverted to where it was in the 1940s.  How, then, looks the future?  Alnasrawi argues that even if the authorities in Baghdad started doing everything right, the country will \\"labor under a vicious cycle of debt and underdevelopment\\" for many years.  Per capita income will not return to its 1950s levels for decades; thanks to the Ba`th and Saddam Husayn, \\"The economic future of Iraq looks bleak indeed.\\"<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R35RDUFQYE8VG3	0333484460	438081201	Islam and the Post-Revolutionary State in Iran	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Islam and the Post-Revolutionary State in Iran	The Islamic Republic of Iran ranks as one of the world's great exporters of conspiracy theories, vitriol, and intimidation. So, it's admittedly refreshing to find a polemic (perhaps the best one in English) directed against, rather than from, the mullahs of Iran. Omid openly sympathizes with the leftist elements who had intended to inherit the Revolution of `79 -- but who found that the wily old ayatollah had cut them out before they could exclude him. Although her account clearly reflects the lingering resentment of what she terms \\"the revolution betrayed,\\" it is also sufficiently balanced and documented to convince an outsider that her criticism is justified. <br />And Omid is relentlessly negative about the Islamic Republic, deeming it \\"theocratic fascism\\" and presenting Khomeini's creation of the \\"devout, fanatical\\" revolutionary guards as an action \\"not unlike that of the formation of Hitler's SS.\\" Moreover, the author holds that the Islamic Republic even failed to achieve its own goals. Most spectacularly, it did not advance the cause of Islam; rather, its actions went \\"against the very core of Shiism\\" and its policies rendered Islam \\"more of a posture than a reality.\\" For example, even the \\"pretence of Islamification of the economy has been abandoned\\" as the country again turns to the West for relief from its miseries. In all, Omid concludes, the Islamic Republic has been an \\"abysmal failure\\" <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R2C5ZEGBJODN4U	0813386969	639076873	The Superpowers And The Middle East: Regional And International Politics, 1955-1967 (Interpretation)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	The Superpowers and the Middle East	Although the author is a political scientist and his first book has all the trappings of a political science treatise, it's actually a solid history book drawing on many published (but virtually no unpublished) sources.  Gerges chose his starting and ending points because \\"1955 signaled the birth of a new Arab order, 1967 marked its demise.\\" Despite the title, his topic is less the Middle East than it is the Arabic-speaking countries of that region:  Turkey, Israel, and Iran enter on his state only as external forces.  In many ways, &quot;The Superpowers and the Middle East&quot; complements Malcolm Kerr's &quot;The Arab Cold War&quot; (1965), stressing the external dimension where Kerr looks at the intra-Arab one.  <br />Gerges finds three main themes rising above the welter of his well-marshalled detail:  First, superpowers had great difficulty controlling their Middle Eastern clients, leading to the odd sight of tails wagging dogs.  Second, as U.S.-Soviet tensions sharpened, Arab states carved out more freedom of action for themselves.  Third, and most counterintuitive, the conflict with Israel did not unify Arabs but sundered them worse than any other issue they faced during those twelve years. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R3L2N0NSUAX6QG	0195072812	22831217	The Shaping of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The Shaping of the Modern Middle East	Thirty years after the publication of The Middle East and the West, Lewis has reissued that excellent study in a slightly updated and enlarged form.  The changes are pervasive but not deep; while figures like the Ayatollah Khomeini do appear in its pages, such issues of the 1960s as Arab socialism and Soviet-Egyptian relations remain at the heart of the study.  This said, the 1964 version concludes with the observation that \\"Friendship will be possible only when Arab nationalism is prepared to come to terms with the West.\\"  That having more or less taken place, the 1994 version ends by noting that \\"for the first time in centuries, the course of events in the Middle East is being shaped not by outside but by regional powers. The choice, at last, is their own.\\"  To sum up, while the new first page is identical in substance with the old one, the last pages in the two versions differ completely one from the other.<br />  &quot;Shaping of the Modern Middle East&quot; has many enduring virtues of which two stand out.  It presents with succinct clarity nearly all the great intellectual themes that influenced Middle Eastern life over the past two centuries.  And it presents a vision of the Middle East as a whole, with Iran and Turkey no less important than the Arabic-speaking countries, a perspective which causes the Arab-Israeli conflict to shrink to its true proportions.)  In short, Shaping of the Modern Middle East remains perhaps the best single volume for learning about the vast subject matter it covers. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-23
US	43093648	RHNVNMQ4DP6AP	0140245642	444232160	War and Peace in the Middle East: A Concise History, Revised and Updated	Books	1	13	53	N	N	War and Peace in the Middle East	With uncommon skill, Shlaim has managed-in the confines of a very small volume with very large margins-to pack misjudgments, arrogance, and lack of sense into 1994's worst book on the Middle East.<br />Example #1 (micro level): Each house of Congress formed a commission of inquiry into the charges forwarded by Gary Sick that Candidate Reagan had made a deal with the Khomeini regime in 1980 to keep American hostages locked up in Tehran. Each of them found Sick's hypothesis to be flat wrong. Shlaim ignores these investigations and suggests that fear of Iranian blackmail accounted for much of Reagan's Middle East policy.<br />Example #2 (macro level): Shlaim sees Middle Eastern history of the twentieth century coming full circle. The region began under the Ottoman thumb, spent seventy years struggling against foreign domination, in the end only to find itself under the American thumb. \\"The leading actors changed but the old order survived,\\" he writes. In this man's imagination, in other words, Washington today rules the Middle East just as Istanbul did eighty years ago. And on this false basis, he writes \\"a critique of American policy.\\"<br />As these examples suggest, Shlaim's extreme-left outlook inspires an anti-American and anti-Israel animus of rare vintage. Let's just hope that despite the attractive packaging by Whittle Books and the extensive advertising campaign, War and Peace in the Middle East finds the obscurity it so richly deserves.<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R4SK87KWAHZ4B	0500341338	560367954	The Mosque: History, Architectural Development & Regional Diversity	Books	4	33	35	N	N	The Mosque	On opening &quot;The Mosque&quot;, most readers are likely to wonder that such a book has not been attempted earlier, for the topic is so obviously suitable for comparative study.  The editors and their fourteen collaborators explain the mosque as an expression of Islam, analyse the characteristic styles of nine regions ranging from West Africa to China, and then report on the contemporary scene.<br />The last topic may be the most original and important, for Westerners are far more familiar with the celebrated mosques of the pre-modern period than with those of the twentieth century.  Oleg Grabar and Mohammed Arkoun provide typically brilliant insights while Khan surveys the architectural variances ranging from the pseudo-classicism of the Islamic Center Mosque in Washington, D.C. to the astonishing modernism of the Sherefuddin Mosque in Bosnia.<br />Too often, in a specialized field such as Middle Eastern studies, a reviewer finds himself lamenting the excessive prices of books.  How refreshing, then, to be able to compliment Thames and Hudson for including 378 illustrations, 170 of them in color, and yet charging very little more than the average scholarly book.  This pricing decision brings The Mosque within the means of individual purchasers-and even pressures them to buy the book to prove that moderate prices do in fact lead to larger sales.<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R26JHBB4HJXR6H	0815670575	10731246	Middle Eastern Lectures Number One: 1995 (No. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Middle East Lectures Number One: 1995	As any Middle East specialist knows, there's no experience like being asked to speak in one of the major Israeli university fora:  in the audience sit individuals with more knowledge and skills on Middle Eastern issues than perhaps anywhere else on the globe.  And so, it is hardly surprising that scholars invited to address the Dayan Center at Tel Aviv University rise to the occasion, preparing major addresses that deserve to be made available to a much wider audience.  This is, fortunately, what the Dayan Center has chosen to do, and its associate director has edited the inaugural issue with verve.  <br />Gabriel Warburg provides what is perhaps the most incisive analysis of Hasan at-Turabi, the \\"soft-spoken\\" Sudanese fundamentalist Muslim leader who disengenuously tells a gullible West that his goals can be achieved without violence. Bernard Wasserstein confronts the discrepancy between what Israelis would like to believe about the British Mandate in Palestine and the historical truths emerging from the archives.  Bernard Lewis adeptly argues the obvious but rarely made point that the Arab-Israeli conflict is but one of the Middle East's many problems.  Steven Humphreys takes up the intriguing and almost never discussed subject of historians who write in Arabic about the Middle East:  why is that their voluminous writings rarely attract Western interest?  And, conversely, why do they pay so little attention to Western scholarly efforts on the Middle East?  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R22HMQR2U91EJT	031210586X	483749390	The Gates of Gaza: Israel's Road to Suez and Back, 1955-1957	Books	4	4	6	N	N	The Gates of Gaza	As Bar-On explains, he has had the unusual experience of recording Israel&#8217;s role in the Suez Crisis of October-November 1956 on three occasions: during the events themselves, when as a lieutenant-colonel and head of bureau to Chief of Staff Moshe Dayan, he kept daily records in a Bureau Diary; a year later, when he compiled and adapted the diary notations into a classified account of the events; and thirty years later when, using newly disclassified archival materials, he studied the same events for a doctoral dissertation at the Hebrew University. <br />This mix of personal experience and scholarly inquiry make The Gates of Gaza the authoritataive source on the ever-mysterious subject of how Israel got enmeshed with the British and French governments in the assault on Suez. More importantly, he establishes how, in the view of David Ben-Gurion, Moshe Sharett, and the other Israeli leaders, the road to Suez began over a year earlier&#8212;in September 1955, when the Czech-Egyptian arms deal made Moscow an active player in the Middle East and gave Gamal Abdel Nasser an enormous boost in power. Bar-On argues that the Suez war &#8220;was fought to contend with the motivations of the Czech deal&#8221; and he expertly brings to life the mood in Israel in the ensuing months, especially the sense of apprehension among the military brass.....	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R2OE2BI338UYZ1	0791428516	392788563	The Bedouins and the Desert: Aspects of Nomadic Life in the Arab East (Suny Series in Near Eastern Studies)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The Bedouins and the Desert	Born in 1900 in a small Syrian town, the author \\"grew up fearing these bedouins, loathing the desert, and hating its people.\\" He later became a distinguished scholar of Semitic languages at the American University of Beirut and, over a sixty-year period, meticulously collected materials on the selfsame Bedouin he once despised.  His magnum opus on the subject appeared in Arabic in 1988 and now (four years after the author's death) in English, in an excellent translation. <br />The Bedouins and the Desert has the look and feel of an instant classic, due in part to the author's mix of personal experience and erudition, in part to the State University of New York Press's publishing a beautiful (and commendably inexpensive) volume.  The book follows in the grand tradition of Doughty and Musil, documenting and explaining the desert, but it may be the last of its genre, for the Bedouin way of life has so deeply changed and diminished during the past half-century that a successor volume is highly unlikely.    Jabbur organizes his book around four \\"pillars\\" of Bedouin life:  the desert, the camel, the tent, and the Bedouin; naturally, the first and last receive predominant attention.  While many of the sections read like a reference work (such as the listing of animals or tribes), the author's deep familiarity with desert poetry and his own observations frequently enliven the text with asides and insights-on everything from the role of falcons hunting gazelles to love marriages among the Bedouin. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1996	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R2K48P15FPFA2	0863721559	676946744	Russian Ships in the Gulf 1899-1903	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Russian Ships in the Gulf 1899-1903	The Soviet collapse made this book both possible and newly relevant.  Possible in that the end of totalitarian secrecy led to the opening of the Russian Navy Central Archives in St. Petersburg.  Newly relevant in that the Powers are once again, as a century ago, jostling for geo-political position and trade advantage in the Persian Gulf; and just as the Russians then challenged the British predominance, so they today challenge the American one.<br />In early 1899, Tsar Nicholas himself approved the sending of a shallow-draught gunboat, the Gilyak, to the Persian Gulf.  As an aide put it, the intent was \\"by showing the Russian flag in the Persian Gulf, to indicate to the British and the local authorities alike that we consider the Gulf accessible to the ships of all nations. . . .  the purpose will be to make an impression with no aggressive intent or plans for territorial aggression.\\"<br />The documents Rezvan has collected that fill most of &quot;Russian Ships in the Gulf&quot; show just how successful this effort was.  The local authorities, and Sheikh Mubarak of Kuwait especially, welcomed the Russians as a \\"natural ally in an anti-British coalition.\\" But then the Russian ships disappeared as quickly as they had appeared, as developments in East Asia compelled them to devote attention instead to the Japanese navy.<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R3B53UQM0BV7GQ	1856492370	480131544	Pride of Small Nations: The Caucasus and Post-Soviet Disorder (Politics in contemporary Asia)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pride of Small Nations	The mountains of the Caucasus, the area's remoteness, and its long incorporation in a Russian-dominated empire make it singularly little known in the West.   And yet, the region is also one of the most fascinating on earth, what with its intense diversity of languages, its wild beauty, and its celebrated liquors.  In recent years, it has also become one of the most troubled regions, as ethnic conflicts have proliferated.<br />   Goldenberg, a journalist working for the Guardian, provides an excellent introduction to the Caucasus, mixing scholarship and personal observation.  She makes sense of the devastating civil war in Georgia and offers a balanced account of the Azerbaijan-Armenia war.  But perhaps the most valuable section deals with the North Caucasus, a region nominally part of Russia but seething with ethnic and territorial problems, as well as an Islamic revival.  To those mystified by the Russian assault on Chechenya, she provides a helpful introduction:  how the Chechens provided most of Shamil's troops resisting Russian conquest in the mid-nineteenth century, how they suffered from deportation to Central Asia at Stalin's hands, and declared independence in 1991.  Goldenberg sketches a vivid portrait of Dzhokar Dudayev, the Chechens' military strongman, and the eccentric, violent state he has established.  Two examples:  his bodyguard consists mainly of hardened criminals he sprung from jail and his foreign minister comes from the Chechen population living in Jordan.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R1C4OAH6OOFB6D	1558887822	221881493	The Middle East & North Africa 1995	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Middle East and North Africa 1995	Europa has a lock on regional surveys of the world, publishing volumes on every major region every year and carrying out this service for decades.  Each volume carries an enormous amount of information, including essays, country-by-country surveys, and statistical information.  It also includes bibliographies, current addresses and telephone numbers of institutions, information on leading organizations and media outlets.<br />The Middle East volume includes particularly useful sections on the Palestinian organizations, the Saudi economy, and the recent history of Ceuta and Melilla (two Spanish enclaves on the North African coast).<br />With its many years of practice, Europa has perfected the art of remaining up to date.  In a virtuoso performance, it managed to include information on the Israel-Jordan treaty of October 26, 1994 in a finished volume which arrived in the United States a mere month and a half later.<br />Two flaws mar this otherwise impressive volume:  the anti-Israel animus that appears in several of the preliminary essays (notably the nearly book-length account of the Arab-Israeli conflict), something totally out of place in a reference book; and the inevitably layered quality in some of the historical accounts, reflecting the fact that these essays get modified and updated year after year.  Tight editing could eliminate these two problems, thereby permitting the Europa annual to attain its full potential.<br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R28P7R482S8I29	0195072820	22831217	The Shaping of the Modern Middle East	Books	4	30	31	N	N	The Shaping of the Modern Middle East	Thirty years after the publication of The Middle East and the West, Lewis has reissued that excellent study in a slightly updated and enlarged form.  The changes are pervasive but not deep; while figures like the Ayatollah Khomeini do appear in its pages, such issues of the 1960s as Arab socialism and Soviet-Egyptian relations remain at the heart of the study.  This said, the 1964 version concludes with the observation that &#8220;Friendship will be possible only when Arab nationalism is prepared to come to terms with the West.&#8221;  That having more or less taken place, the 1994 version ends by noting that &#8220;for the first time in centuries, the course of events in the Middle East is being shaped not by outside but by regional powers. The choice, at last, is their own.&#8221;  To sum up, while the new first page is identical in substance with the old one, the last pages in the two versions differ completely one from the other.  <br />\\"Shaping of the Modern Middle East\\" has many enduring virtues of which two stand out.  It presents with succinct clarity nearly all the great intellectual themes that influenced Middle Eastern life over the past two centuries.  And it presents a vision of the Middle East as a whole, with Iran and Turkey no less important than the Arabic-speaking countries, a perspective which causes the Arab-Israeli conflict to shrink to its true proportions.)  In short, Shaping of the Modern Middle East remains perhaps the best single volume for learning about the vast subject matter it covers....	2001-07-23
US	43093648	RKKOHG1AF3MK0	1568360207	697623546	Like Hidden Fire: The Plot to Bring Down the British Empire	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Like Hidden Fire	When it comes to history, many of the most engrossing books are what the French call &quot;haute vulgarisation&quot;-popularizing studies with an emphasis on a tale well-told. Like Hidden Fire is this; but it is more too, rescuing from obscurity a forgotten yet critical series of events during World War I. <br />Hopkirk recounts how the Germans and Ottomans worked together from 1914 on to dislodge the British and Russians from the Caucasus, Iran, and Central Asia. For the Germans, this was the route to India; for the Turks, it offered a Pan-Turkic realm. Even readers versed in twentieth-century history will probably shake their head in amazement at their own ignorance of the German role in this jihad, a story full of drama and memorable figures. Highlights include the career of Wilhelm Wassmuss, \\"the German Lawrence,\\" singlehandedly causing havoc for the British in southern Iran; the Niedermeyer-Hentig expedition to Afghanistan which came close to lighting the fuse of revolution in India; the near-success of Prince Henry of Reuss, Germany's minister to the shah's court, in bringing Iran into the war on the Entente side; and how the loss of a German codebook in the Persian desert contributed to the United States entry into the war. In addition, Hopkirk also tells the remarkable tale of British diplomats, spies, and soldiers in the anti-Soviet rebellion in Baku.<br />  The Great War so profoundly changed the Middle East that its consequences continue to be felt; therefore, the events described in Like Hidden Fire need urgently to be incorporated into the standard history. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R1R63L4VU0H9Z4	0815626282	285036941	Bitter Legacy: Ideology and Politics in the Arab World (Contemporary Issues in the Middle East)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bitter Legacy: Ideology and Politics in the Arab World	A quarter-century after Albert Hourani's much-acclaimed Arabic Thought in the Liberal Age, Salem has published a successor volume, both sadder and wiser. As his title suggests, Salem finds that the Arabs suffered acutely from the impact of ideology (which he defines as \\"a system of highly integrated ideas, principles, and aims that are related to sociopolitical action\\").<br />Salem divides his subject matter into four main trends: Arab nationalism, Islamic fundamentalism, Marxism, and regional nationalism (under which rubric he includes Egyptian, Lebanese, and Syrian variants). In every instance, he begins with the ideology's historical career, then goes on to describe its ideas, its social dynamics, appeal, and legacy. The author manages to make this structure work; more, the rigor of his approach makes it possible to compare the movements and ideas in a surprisingly direct fashion. <br />Salem's grounding in European intellectual history brings an additional bonus, enabling him to show the derivation of Middle Eastern ideas from their Western sources. And herein lies perhaps the most depressing aspect of the book: Westerners must acknowledge that the great majority of terrible ideas (such as the various strains of totalitarianism) that so harmed the Arabic-speaking countries in recent times come from their own civilization. At the same time, Arabs must acknowledge that their own thinkers had precious few original thoughts, but derived almost everything from the West. <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R2C1BVYN5L4VNK	0520083695	807935576	The Vanguard of the Islamic Revolution: The Jama'at-i Islami of Pakistan (Comparative Studies on Muslim Societies)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Vanguard of the Islamic Revolution	With the exception of the much-studied Muslim Brethren of Egypt, few fundamentalist Islamic groups have been subjected to book-length investigations in English. And if any one deserves such attention, it's the Jama`at-i Islami (Islamic Party) of Pakistan, founded in 1941 by Sayyid Abul A`la Mawdudi (1903-79). Nasr, professor of political science at the University of San Diego, does his important subject justice in an excellent history of the founder and of his movement. <br />Throughout its existence, the Jama`at-i Islami has suffered from a tension between an intention to create a holy community of the righteous and the (frustrated) desire to attain power through the political process. Mawdudi himself bounced from one unattainable goal to another: in the mid-1930s he rejected the Pakistan movement, arguing that Muslims should seek to rule the whole of India. By 1940 he accepted the inevitability of a Pakistan and began a decades-long effort to dominate that state. <br />All that's missing from Nasr's fine study is a consideration of Mawdudi's profound influence on the fundamentalist movement outside Pakistan, and specifically on Ayatollah Khomeini; in other words, how exactly was the Jama`at-i Islami \\"the vanguard of the Islamic Revolution\\"? That's such an important and large subject, it's surely worthy of another volume by the same author. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-23
US	43093648	R2UMOLPRHER0YF	069103267X	421051353	Mecca: A Literary History of the Muslim Holy Land	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Mecca	&quot;Mecca&quot; is a companion volume to Peters' earlier 1994 study, &quot;The Hajj:  The Muslim Pilgrimage to Mecca and the Holy Places&quot; (reviewed in Middle East Quarterly, September 1994).  That book focuses on the experience of the pilgrimage, in Mecca and outside it; this one focuses on the geography and history of what Peters calls \\"the Muslim Holy Land,\\" by which he means \\"Mecca and Medina and their spiritual environs.\\" \\"Literary history\\" points to the fact that there is little or no material evidence for Islam's holy cities before 1925, this book's cut-off date, compelling the researcher to rely almost exlusively on written sources.  <br />As in the earlier volume, Peters mixes his own scholarly findings here with long excerpts from primary sources, both Muslim and Western.  Rather than impose his own schema on the materials at hand, he follows their vagaries, jumping from the early centuries of Islam to the Age of Discovery with only a few pages on the intervening centuries.  The result is an unusual but highly successful mix of literary collage with academic inquiry.  Subjects especially worth noting include the account of the Qarmatians' conquest of Mecca in 930 and their stealing of the Black Stone; the story of Thomas Keith, a Scotsman taken prisoner by the Ottoman forces who converted to Islam and eventually became governor of Medina in 1815; and late nineteenth-century British musings about the recruitment of spies to keep an eye on possible seditious activity during the pilgrimage activities in Mecca.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, March 1995	2001-07-23
US	43093648	RQM1FVL0ZBOEE	0944029558	152326589	After King Fahd: Succession in Saudi Arabia (Policy Papers)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	After King Fahd: Succession in Saudi Arabia	The Saudi family has devised an obvious but perhaps unprecedented device for holding on to power: consider the royal family not to number just a handful of princes but in the thousands. (Of course, it helps when the king has forty or more sons.) Then have the royals staff most high-level positions in the government and the military. Inspire a family loyalty so that internal differences can be put aside in the common purpose of ruling the country. Do this and you end up with, as the joke goes, the only family-owned business with membership in the United Nations.  In such a system, succession to the throne has immense importance. Henderson, a reporter for the Financial Times, does his topic justice with an original and well-researched study of the Saud line in the twilight years of King Fahd. He first establishes several principles of Saudi rule. It's not a simple matter: half-brothers, cadet lines, and generational solidarity all bear on succession. While nominally in the hand of the religious authorities (the `ulama), the family actually makes the ultimate decisions on succession.  Henderson then applies these rules to today's situation and sketches five alternate scenarios. He observes that the sooner Fahd dies, the more likely he will be succeeded by Crown Prince `Abdullah; but the longer he lives, the harder it is to predict who will follow him. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R2208S8LFS9OVB	1850437750	841479593	Invasion Kuwait: An English Woman's Tale	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Invasion Kuwait: An Englishwoman's Tale	One would expect the harrowing experience of living in Kuwait through seven months of Iraqi occupation to have produced a flood of memoirs.  But it's been a mere trickle, perhaps because those who survived the ordeal wish to put it behind them and rebuild normal lives.   As Rajab's title states, she is a Briton; but having married a Kuwaiti and lived in Kuwait for thirty years, she experienced the occupation as a Kuwaiti (that is, she could remain in her own house, without fear of being taken hostage).  From this perspective she could observe the Iraqi soldiers, involve herself in Kuwaiti organizations, and participate in the festivities upon liberation.  Her story takes on added drama due to the fact that in her husband had built a well-known private museum in the basement of his compound, filled with antique and valuable items.  The museum had been open to the public for years and was much-visited; to make matters worse, her husband was out of Kuwait when Saddam Husayn invaded.  Will the author succeed in keeping the museum from being pillaged?  (Yes, by sealing off most of it and displaying some third-rate items to marauding Iraqi troops.)   First-hand accounts of warfare from the Middle East reveal a pattern of normal life mixed with searing violence (kibbutz children attending school in bunkers; Beirutis at the beach with snippers a few blocks away) and the Kuwait experience is no exception.  To those of us not on the scene, this combination remains enduringly mysterious. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R33VJ12980D1U	0226545644	153938158	Policy and Opinion in the Gulf War (American Politics and Political Economy Series)	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Policy and Opinion in the Gulf War	Mueller calls the Kuwait War &quot;the mother of all polling events,&quot; and backs up this contention with hundreds of surveys on the subject. These telephone polls have their limitations, generated as they were for immediate media use, not systematic academic inquiry. Still, their sheer profusion provides insights not usually possible.<br />Mueller's main conclusion is that &quot;The opinion dynamic that probably helped Bush most was a growing fatalism about the war.&quot; The sense of inevitability he says, fueled the feeling that the fighting might as well be gotten over with. Trouble is, the author displays such immaturity (sarcastically using such phrases &quot;our glorious military,&quot; &quot;our gallant, and presumably virginal, men and women in the service&quot;) that most readers will find themselves unsure how much to trust his judgment. Indeed, Mueller's hostility to the American war effort significantly detracts from the authority of his conclusions.<br />Nearly every polling organization in the United States contributed to the 289 tables at the back of the book. Having them all in one place permits the reader completely to bypass Mueller's interpretations and ponder the data for himself. One fascinating poll shows that at the exact end of the war, only 38 percent of Americans thought the war was not a victory if Saddam Husayn remained in power; and that this figure steadily increased to 69 percent one and a half years later. This shift in attitudes goes far to explain why the war, far from helping George Bush's reelection effort, probably ended up hurting it.<br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	RG0X63879PVBF	0520086511	481656825	The New Cold War?  Religious Nationalism Confronts the Secular State (Comparative Studies in Religion and Society)	Books	1	15	39	N	N	The New Cold War?	The New Cold War: Religious Nationalism Confronts the Secular State<br />Juergensmeyer, a sociologist at the University of California, Santa Barbara, means by &quot;religious nationalism&quot; what others call fundamentalism; and, as his title suggests, he sees similarities between the old Marxism-Leninism challenge to the Western order and this new one. In both cases, the confrontation is &quot;global in its scope, binary in its opposition, occasionally violent, and essentially a difference of ideologies.&quot; Of the many religious nationalisms, the Islamic one stands out by virtue of its extent and the depth of its hold.<br />While Juergensmeyer holds that secular Westerners underestimate this threat to their way of life, he also believes that &quot;a grudging respect&quot; might develop between the two sides over time. He then goes further and claims that &quot;there may be some aspects of the religious nationalists' agenda that we cannot only live with but also admire.&quot; Key to our all getting along, he states is for secular Westerners to change our attitude and respect &quot;at least some aspects of their positions.&quot;<br />In other words, Juergensmeyer first identifies the fundamentalists as the new enemy, then he goes on to propose at least a partial capitulation to them. In short, if fundamentalists present us with a new ideological battle, the academy is offering up the same old advice of appeasement.<br />Middle East Quarterly, September, 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R3DEBT2GUTPIOP	1850436517	82257341	Co-Existence in Wartime Lebanon: Decline of a State and Rise of a Nation	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Coexistence in Wartime Lebanon	Hanf, a German social scientist, has produced a massive and original study of the Lebanese civil war. By thoroughly immersing himself in things Lebanese he has produced the book that finally does justice to the enigma and the tragedy of that war. Relying on an exceptionally wide sources (including survey research), Hanf brings all the pieces together and gives the reader a better feel for the conflict than even its many first-hand accounts.  The book's thesis appears in its subtitle: the crucible of war forged the Lebanese into a people. Or, putting the same thought in social science jargon, \\"surveys have revealed that the majority of Lebanese have little difficulty in reconciling communal identity and national identity.\\"  Looking to the future, Hanf has a keen appreciation for the Syrian insistence on \\"unreserved recognition of Syrian ascendency in a formally independent Lebanon,\\" an objective which Damascus finally attained in 1991-92. Should the death of Hafiz al-Asad lead to a struggle for power, the author expects Syrians may have to cut back on their current predominance, but \\"it is unlikely that any post-Assad government will voluntarily abandon Assad's Lebanon policy.\\" In other words, Hanf advises the Lebanese to get used to living under the Syrian thumb. How ironic: the war that finally made the Lebanese a nation also ended their independence. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R10QEDVKKI4V5H	0029327253	526779356	Exile's Return: The Making of a Palestinian American	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Exile�s Return: The Making of a Palestinian American	In the third iteration of his memoirs, Turki concentrates on two aspects of his life: changing from Arab into American and alienation from the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). In Turki's case, becoming an American is a funny, quite degenerate, and certainly ribald process. It makes for a moving transformation, especially when contrasted with his earlier dislike of the United States.  As for the PLO, Turki denounces its \\"corruption and incompetence\\" as well as its \\"tired cant and lame banalities.\\" But don't think he only has harsh words; in Turki's hands, even turning away from the PLO has a humorous edge (indeed, his game on the Arab League's pompous ambassador in Washington is sidesplitting). Turki also condemns what he sees as the terrible traditionalness of Palestinian society and calls for nothing less than a revolution: \\"the liberation of Palestinian society will only come about when the Palestinians themselves recognize their neobackwardness and begin an Intifada against it.\\"  It wasn't many years ago that every Palestinian proclaimed himself a PLO supporter. Hamas and Islamic Jihad first broke the monopoly on the fundamentalist side. Now more liberal elements are ready to tell the world just how awful the organization is, providing details detractors could hitherto only have imagined. In contrast to grudging Americans like Edward Said, Turki eagerly embraces the United States and rejects PLO brutalities; this is a major development. Indeed, his candor and thoughtfulness marks a significant breakthrough. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R1VB9W6WN8YAC2	0691034311	812267516	The Shi'is of Iraq	Books	4	10	16	N	N	The Shi'is of Iraq	The title suggests that the much-needed survey of Iraq's Shi`i population is finally at hand. But Nakash's topic is far more specialized, and ultimately more valuable: an historical inquiry into roughly a hundred years' history of the Iraqi Shi`is, from the mid-nineteenth century to 1958. The author reaches two main conclusions, both surprising to an outsider. First, the Iraqi Shi`is are not an antique community, but are \\"by and large recent converts to Shi`ism, a result of a development which took place mainly during the nineteenth century as the bulk of Iraq's Arab nomadic tribes settled down and took up agriculture.\\" Second, though they belong to the same branch of Twelver Shi`ism as the Shi`a of Iran, they constitute an entirely separate community, with its own structure and outlook. \\"The diverging development of Shi`i Islam in Iraq and Iran in the twentieth century reflected the essentially different characters of Shi`i religion and society in the two countries.\\" Applying these insights to the Kuwait war, Nakash argues by prompting the failed uprising of March 1991, Iraqi defeat furthered the long-term decline of Shi`is in Iraqi society. He expects this event to shape the consciousness of Iraqi Shi`is for many years to come, though he shies away from predicting just how it will affect future Sunni-Shi`i relations. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R3539WZVGCP82H	9994824805	544516548	Iran's Strategic Intentions and Capabilities	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Iran's Strategic Intentions and Capabilities	Though modestly produced and hastily assembled, Iran's Strategic Intentions and Capabilities probably marks a turning point in the Western assessment of Iran's Islamic Republic.  No longer, the authors tell us, should we expect the mullahs of Tehran to organize and lead the world's anti-American club.  To the contrary, we can expect them to weaken and, before very long, to fall.   Laurent Lamote (a pseudonymous French scholar) makes the most dramatic statements:  \\"The only fight the 15 year-old Islamic Republic of Iran can undertake is for its own survival.\\"  The regime no longer has anything to which it \\"can point as an example of success or source of hope.\\"  As the regime's problems multiply, religious leaders outside the government note that Islam, which once served as Khomeini's subversive ideology, has become a tool of state repression.  They fear this will lead to Islam getting blamed for the country's problems, even that the faith will be \\"endangered in Iran.\\"  To prevent this dire outcome, they are abandoning the government, even turning against it, with potentially major implications for regime stability.  Lamote also points to another problem, hitherto little recognized in the West: the severe disaffection of Iran's Sunni population, some nine million strong.  <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	RH3OQWE3H283B	0679405992	973563164	Sandcastles: The Arabs in Search of the Modern World	Books	1	13	22	N	N	Sandcastles: The Arabs in Search of the Modern World	Viorst, a reporter who has traveled in recent years to the Middle East for The New Yorker, can snag the startling quotation (a Gazan told him \\"The Arabs say they're our friends, and treat us worse than the Israelis do\\") and he can write incisively (President Hafiz al-Asad of Syria is a man for whom \\"an air of enigma is an instrument of state\\"). But the odd insight does not save a book chock-full of pretension, factual mistakes, cultural incomprehension, and political bias. The pretension starts with the subtitle: somehow, Viorst flatters himself into believing that a few trips to the Middle East and some interviews with Middle Eastern politicians gives him a base for interpreting the Arab experience with modernity. Some of his errors make one doubt that Viorst had his eyes open while traveling. How could a repeat visitor to Damascus assert that President Asad \\"shunned the creation of a personality cult\\"? In fact, Asad's representation is ubiquitous within Syria. Sandcastles contains illogical passages. We learn on one page that Asad has faced no challenge to his rule since 1970; seven pages later, Viorst reports on the carnage at Hama in 1982 that resulted from precisely such a challenge. Though he treads light on politics, Viorst betrays an all-too-familiar outlook throughout his account: stick it to America's allies (in this case, Turkey, Kuwait, and Israel), portray its opponents favorably. For example, his chapter on Turkey (not usually known as an Arab country, but included here anyway) bristles with antipathy. He describes Istanbul (in an ungrammatical flourish) as a \\"melancholy city\\" and exploits the bad weather during his visit as a metaphor for Turkey's unattractiveness. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R24OD451X9NYI6	0674768035	679744677	Revolution Until Victory?: The Politics and History of the PLO	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Revolution Until Victory	Since 1967, the burning question of the Arab-Israel conflict has been, Will the Arabs accept the Jewish state's existence? Answering it has proven difficult. The September 13th accord between Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) makes this issue all the more pressing. What do the Palestinians intend-a temporary cease-fire or a true peace? Have they had a change of heart or are they biding their time to strike again?  Rubin's timely Revolution Until Victory? a history of the PLO, provides an excellent guide to PLO intentions. In compact and readable form, he reliably reviews three decades' worth of PLO complexities. More than that, he breaks new ground by getting behind the PLO's external face-the personality of Yasir Arafat or the record of terror-and concentrating instead on its internal dynamics. Calling the PLO's structure \\"a central factor in shaping its destiny,\\" Rubin explains how relations between constituent groups and with outside forces molded its history. This approach allows him to make sense of much that had hitherto been mysterious, including the PLO's pattern of inconsistency, extremism, and self-defeat. It also permits him to hint at implications about its future course. In short, if you are prepared to read just one study about the elusive organization called the Palestine Liberation Organization, Revolution Until Victory? is the place to go. <br />Middle East Quarterly, September 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R163XBT2QI1DL6	9004097384	292900034	Islamic Desk Reference: Compiled from the Encyclopaedia of Islam	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Islamic Desk Reference	To render more accessible the riches of the The Encyclopaedia of Islam (the second edition consists of seven fat volumes published since 1954, and it's only up to the letter \\"n\\"), its editors have published a single-volume manual. In contrast to the many-paged entries of the Encyclopaedia, entries in the Desk Reference consist mostly of two to four lines. The result is an extremely useful introduction to the major characters, places, institutions, and customs of the Muslim world. <br />Though barebone, the entries nonetheless hint at the fascination of the full-scale articles from which they derive. Look up \\"Sabbath,\\" for example, and learn that the lack of an Islamic day of rest follows from the stringent Islamic ban on anthropomorphism (God could not have needed a day of rest). <br />Given the orientalist pedigree of the Encyclopaedia, it probably comes as no surprise that the editors deal more consistently with medieval subjects than with modern ones. Indeed, post-World War II is striking in its inconsistency. Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi has a very long entry while the Ayatollah Khomeini is completely absent. One Egyptian fundamentalist (Hasan al-Banna) shows up and another (Sayyid Qutb) does not. But this is a mere cavil. The Islamic Desk Reference's major accomplishment is to offer an accurate and fast access to the history and religion of the Muslim peoples. <br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
US	43093648	R2I8XZGIMSO0GC	0791420205	114892616	Muslim Communities in North America (Suny Series in Middle Eastern Studies)	Books	2	5	18	N	N	Muslim Communities in North America	As the numbers of Muslims resident in the United States and Canada increase, they also become more diverse. Just how diverse becomes apparent in this tightly edited volume in three sections. Part one deals with religious communities (Shi'is, Nation of Islam, and others); the second with cities major (Los Angeles) and minor (Rochester); and the final with a miscellany of issues (Bektashis, elderly Muslims, attitudes towards women's employment, and so forth).<br />Muslim Communities in North America contains fascinating subject matter, much of it novel. For example, Yusuf Nuruddin tells of an little-known but startling group, the Five Percenters, who broke away from the Nation of Islam in 1964 under the leadership of the improbably named Clarence &quot;Pudding&quot; 13X. With due understatement, the author describes his immersion in the Five Percenters' theology as &quot;a visit to another world where normal rules of logic are suspended.&quot;<br />The book's only serious problem lies in its occasional apologetic quality. Thus, Matthias Gardell makes the preposterous argument that Louis Farrakhan's reputation for demogoguery, reverse racism, and anti-Semitism results not from his own rhetoric and actions, but from &quot;misunderstanding and disinformation.&quot;<br />Middle East Quarterly, December 1994	2001-07-16
