US	43151646	R2V2SMQ36HO6PW	1400062314	9571448	Prep: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Finally, a book that lives up the the hype!	I can't say that it is the best book I've ever read, because I am so cautious with such a distinction. But it is rare that a read a book that I enjoy so much, and that lives up to so much of the acclaim that it has received! This was a very, very good book. I don't know if the protagonist Lee Fiora is the type of character that I would innately understand or identify with, but Curtis Sittenfeld takes us so deeply into the mind and thoughts of Lee Fiora that we can't help but to know and understand her --it really is an amazing ride. I have never gotten to know a literary character so well, nor have I ever enjoyed it so much.	2005-09-22
US	43151646	RUDBW0K834YDO	0060522275	132584057	Elegance	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Three and a half -- and not at all a bad read!	Elegance is a cute and quick read -- but I completely disagree that it was too predictable or boring! I was amused and involved, and rooting for Louise, the main character, even when the plot got a little silly. I enjoyed reading about Louise's transformation from boring wife to a real lady with an interest in quality and style -- both in herself and in her life. ALthough I am sure that all the maxims of a \\"style\\" book like the one that she relies upon would not really stand the test of time, I think that there is somethine comforting and seductive about the idea that style is not something that is bought -- -- it is something that is developed and cultured. Don't expect a masterpiece of modern literature out of this book, but I think that you can expect a fun read.	2005-09-02
US	43151646	R2EPTSWVNDO8LV	0743235509	186422363	Textured Tresses: The Ultimate Guide to Maintaining and Styling Natural Hair	Books	3	68	69	N	N	Not really much help.	For someone who is already natural, and just looking to learn more about how to care for her hair, this book is rather disappointing. The author's basic message is to tell the reader what hair is, what it is made of, to be proud of our hair, and then to put it in the care of an trained professional. That didn't help me. Even the products that she recommends are expensive -- and I can't afford $15 shampoos and conditioners!  She should tell readers which brands to buy in the drugstores and beauty supply stores, because we don't all have expensive personal stylists. My verdict: If you just want a little more knowledge, or if you don't know anything about natural hair at all, this book could be helpful. Otherwise, it didn't offer me anything at all useful, and it is no different from the other books out there.	2005-09-02
US	43151646	RBHG2R7YOYJXF	0743265025	288228634	The Starter Wife	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good for a fairytale, not as good as Maneater.	I still have mixed feelings about The Starter Wife.  It starts out feeling very similar to Maneater, because it has the same fast, witty, clever pace. And for that reason, I  didn't like the beginning as much, because I wanted something different from Maneater. But it also started about talking about the world of being the \\"Wife of\\" somebody in fast-paced, excessively superficial Hollywood. I was curious about this particular world, but that thread gets lost once the star of the novel, Gracie Peters Pollock, learns that her husband intends to divorce her for Britney Spears (I suspect that Britney actually has better taste than the book makes it seem).  Now Gracie has become a \\"starter wife,\\" i.e., a nobody in the world that she has gotten so used to. Gracie exits that illustrious \\"Wife of\\" world and goes to live in the further secluded world of Malibu Beach. And the book really turns into a story about a woman who is hurting over her husband's betrayal and trying to get on with her life.  Trying to remind herself that there is a life to get on with. Interesting, but I had no idea that was where the story was going. Still, it was entertaining. But finally, the story becomes a fairytale, with Gracie falling in love with a very handsome man who turns out to be homeless and then turns out to be the errant son of a very old-riche San Francisco family. So, Gracie is the Wife of Somebody again, and her ex husband is a pitiful loser. Not clearly written, not really captivating, but there were several clever, laugh-out-loud moments. You might want to buy Maneater, but get this one from the public library. In this case, Levangie Grazer is better at social commentary than at storytelling.	2005-08-15
US	43151646	RJ76TZD4TTV9X	1401302009	152649726	The Washingtonienne	Books	2	7	14	N	N	A sick life, a sick read.	This is the story of a twenty-something New York girl who has no job and no money (and no morals and no commom sense), so she goes to Washington DC to work on Capital Hill in a Republican Senator's office.  When she gets there, she does very little work, but sleeps with every warm body that she can find in Washington, and does a hell of a lof of drugs. She keeps track of her horrid adventures by keeping an online diary.  The diary, just like her life, gets totally out of hand. And she seemed surprised by that . . . <br /> <br />I just don't get it at all. After all the press/hype/reviews, I really did not like this book! How disappointing! The protagonist (I don't dare call her a heroine) Jacqueline Turner was incredibly NOT likable. Even at her very worst and most pitiful, when she knew she had messed up and regretted it, I still thought she deserved exactly what she got. I don't know who could read her story of sex, drugs, and half-assed politics and actually be sympathetic.  So I didn't actually expect to be sympathy, but I thought it would at least be insightful or entertaining. But it was neither! Perhaps one has to be a screwed up, superficial, spoiled, drug-savvy, republican girl to understand what is so captivating about this book? Well, if you find yourself identifying with any of the descriptors above, forget the book and get therapy.	2005-08-15
US	43151646	RM1JDNQKNLCPD	0525948600	2583852	The Secret History of the Pink Carnation	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Sweet, intelligent, delightful historical novel!	I found this fun book on a new fiction table at my local public library, and the title intrigued me -- I love all things Pink. It was my first historical romance, and I can't wait to read the next book! Even if slightly predictable, the book was so much fun to read and incredibly interesting.  <br /> <br />The book is not just about the Pink Carnation, the still unmasked spy who saved Britain from Napoleon's invasion, but also about the Purple Gentian, also an English spy who constantly foiled the post-revolution French government. (I think that I assumed because of the cover that the \\"Pink Carnation\\" was a woman, so I was confused at first that the narrator thought that the Carnation was a man.) I am sure that spying as a job was never as easy or as constantly stimulating as this book makes it sound (I am sure that most spend a lot of time doing mundane things)-- but this book makes it sound so much more fun and romantic and adventurous, without taking away from the importance or significance of the real events.  Willig did something very admirable here -- she wrote a historical romance that is true to both the spirit of romance and to history.  It's spirited, well-written, funny, well-paced, and manages to avoid being vapid or trite. And its full of memorable characters -- from Miss Gwen, a chaperone/governess who had the confidence/audacity to poke even Napoleon in the ribs with her trusty parasol, and the colorful family members of the Purple Gentian -- their clever dialogue reminded me at times of Jane Austen, though a little more modern.  <br /> <br />Another reviewer mentioned that the secondary story -- the 21st century graduate student, Ellie, who is trying to find the lost identity of the Pink Carnation -- starts to feel like an interruption of the rest of the novel, which is set in 1803. I actually enjoyed both parts of the story, although I am assuming that Ellie's adventures will be continued in the next novel. I can't wait to read it.	2005-07-27
US	43151646	RCO6BCH1FO3RH	0345470532	107776338	The Goddess Rules: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sweet, romantic, fun, and predictable.	I give it three and a half stars.  It was so slow to start that I almost gave up, but a few chapters in, the pace picked up. Still not a suspenseful pageturner, but it is a really cute story of \\"Lessons Learned,\\" in Life and in Love.  <br /> <br />At the beginning, twenty-eight year old Kate Disney has very little self confidence. She doesn't really believe in her talent as an artist and a painter, or in herself as a beautiful and desirable woman. And Kate's life is in a bit of a rut -- living in a shed, not making a lot of money, dealing with an absolute PRICK of a boyfriend.  She's dated Jake for three years, and he's still taking her for granted.  He doesn't call for weeks, then he shows sporadically and makes love to her, but otherwise unwilling to be committed. She can't even say to him that he is her boyfriend without him freaking out and running off into the night.  <br /> <br />And then an amazing and famous former screen siren, Mirabelle Moncour, comes into Kate's life.  I am not sure what Goddesses had to do with anything. Gratefully, there is no list of Goddess Rules that Kate Disney is asked to follow. Kate just learns a lot from the beautiful and eccentric Mirri Moncour. She doesn't seek to be a duplicate of Mirri, and the two are so different that Kate hates Mirri at first. But Mirri does know some things about life and love, and gives Kate some good advice: be confident in yourself. With Mirri pushing her, Kate learns to believe in her inner \\"Goddess\\" -- the beautiful woman within her -- and that she deserves to be treated like a special and beautiful woman, because every woman is special and beautiful in her own way. The more Kate believes in herself, the better things turn out for her. Kate finally gets the kind of love that she deserves.  <br /> <br />Of, course, Kate doesn't have perfect judgment, so she still stumbles along the way. And so does Mirri. There are chapters where they both did things that made me cringe. But, overall, their mistakesmake them seem more real and human.  <br />	2005-07-18
US	43151646	R1INJXWLBG7MOJ	0373250754	843913748	The Year Of Living Famously (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun, sweet read, and FINALLY not your typical chick-lit heroine!	Red Dress Ink has its hits and misses, and this one is a HIT! This is good summer or weekend reading.<br /><br />It starts off a little slow, and the narration is awkward -- it's backwards-looking, like someone telling a story to a friend and constantly giving away parts of the ending.  A little too much foreshadowing sometimes instead of just telling the story. But overall, its hard to dislike the star, Kyra Felis, or her \\"famous\\" husband, Declan McKenna.<br /><br />The best thing about this book is that it isn't your run-of-the-mill chick-lit novel about a silly, self-conscious, lost and clueless twenty-something who doesn't know what she wants or how to get it. (Thank goodness!) Kyra Felis already had a life and a career. She's smart, confident, determined, and down to earth. She has a chance meeting with an actor who is barely paying his bills with his craft.  She marries him, and her whole life changes when he suddenly become famous. It's an interesting story, easy to follow, sweet and reflective. ANd from the point of view of a smart, together woman who isn't starstruck. She actually makes the whole world of Hollywood, fame, and riches sound lonely, crowded and miserable. But reading the book certainly wasn't miserable! It made me glad I never completely gave up on Red Dress Ink.	2005-07-13
US	43151646	RLCVT63UQ0NZE	0743266854	316666947	Citizen Girl	Books	4	30	35	N	N	Not THAT bad, and definitely not worse than Nanny Diaries.	I actually give it three and a half stars. At first, I had a hard time getting into it, as I had a hard time getting into The Nanny Diaires. The world of these heroines -- responsible WASP girls from private prep schools trying to do dubious good in New England -- isn't a world that I know, or that I have a lot of patience for. But I understand what they are trying to say. So I have to say that most of these reviews are WAY too harsh. <br /> <br />The problem with Citizen Girl isn't that its bad.  The writing is just as short, psuedo-clever, and sparse on the details  and descriptions as Nanny Diaries. But I think it's the subject matter probably makes even readers of (so-called) chick lit uncomfortable.   It's about feminism, and how hard it is for an intelligent, well-meaning young woman to try to make a living out of making the world a better place for women. It's about how varied and twisted the meaning of \\"feminism\\" has become. It's about what happens when you just stand by  and allow things that you don't agree with to happen just so that you can make money. Girl, the heroine in this book, puts up with a lot of crap with the hope of hopefully doing something positive in the end. The more insults and mistreatment that she puts up with, the more money that she makes. She's motivated both by her need to get a steady paycheck and by her wish to do something positive at the end of the day. She works for a horrible company and is relentlessly used, exploited, and insulted. The work that she does goes against everything (feminist) that she believes in, but she stays with it largely because she hopes that if she does the work the company will make good on its promise to make a HUGE charitable donation to a non-profit women's organization. Plus, the economy is bad and she needs a steady paycheck.  <br /> <br />Most of the women that I know who read these types of books don't consider themselves feminists -- the word is scary and uncomfortable and somehow implies to them that feminism isn't feminine and that it means that they can't wear lip gloss or cook for their boyfriend. Honestly, this book doesn't do much to allay that silly misconception, but it puts all the types and stereotypes out there. For most of the characters in this book, feminism is more of a jargon and a marketing strategy than a cause. And Girl is expected to let everything slide and ignore the way that the world she's living in, working in, spending money in, is negatively impacting women.  Honestly, it's a good point and a worthy discussion. But it isn't as glamourous a subject as rich ladies and their spoiled children. <br /> <br />I don't see what the other reviewers were so suprised about in the language. I found nothing offensive about the language at all, but I am an urban girl. I think the book could have been better written, but it didn't suck. And I say that as an actual feminist with a strong addiction to lip gloss.	2005-07-08
US	43151646	RBHGU12E01TR8	0743470095	218862275	Little Earthquakes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging and Compassionate!	Before I read it, I had no idea what this book was about. I got it just because it was by Jennifer Weiner, and I LOVED her first two books.  But I think this was my favorite one so far!  <br /> <br />LITTLE EARTHQUAKES is about four women who might not have otherwise been friends, except that pregnancy and new motherhood bring them together. They are all from different communities, professions, religions, and family backgrounds. But with new motherhood, they share an experience that their other friends can't really relate to, and they are able to uniquely support and nurture each other. For each crisis of new motherhood, they are able to call upon their new friends for help without misunderstanding or judgment. Ultimately, the story is not just about motherhood, but also about sisterhood and how women support each other.  <br /> <br />I felt like I got to know and understand and empathize with all four of the women, even though they are all very different from me. Because I am not a mother, sometimes reading about motherhood seems faraway.  But this book is easy to relate to -- their dreams and fears and hopes are understandable, because its all new to them, too. Reading this book, my eyes actually got a little misty, and that doesn't happen much.   <br /> <br />FYI: The title of the book seems to come from the Lia, one of the women in the story who suffered a tragic loss. While in California, she barely feels a rumble in the earth that someone tells her is called a \\"little earthquake,\\" and later she feels that the little earthquake was some kind of sign or signal that she missed.	2005-07-05
US	43151646	R2YN5ET0NBSUZF	0345456092	103527517	Babylon Sisters: A Novel	Books	5	19	27	N	Y	I want to tell all my friends about this GREAT novel!	Sometimes it feels like it is SO HARD hard to find a good black book, with writing and characters that not only entertain you, but also make you proud. Finally, I found (another) one! If you remember any of her other works, especially my favorite, WHAT LOOKS LIKE CRAZY ON AN ORDINARY DAY, then you already no that Pearl Cleage tells a compassionate, intelligent story. BABYLON SISTERS is no exception. <br /> <br />Babylon Sisters is the story of thirty-eight-year-old Catherine Sanderson, a strong black woman who's making a difference in this world. She's a woman who has dedicated her life to improving her community by working with immigrant women and helping them find jobs and housing in her hometown of Atlanta, Georgia. She has also raised a beautiful, intelligent daughter all on her own, and seventeen-year-old Phoebe Sanderson is finishing her senior year at a fancy, private boarding school and is all but headed to Smith College. <br /> <br />But Catherine's peaceful, organized life is due for a few interruptions. In order to pay for Phoebe's expensive college tuition, Catherine takes on a job with a new client - the reknowned, eccentric black millionaire named Miss Ezola Mandeville. (Emphasis on the \\"Miss.\\") But Miss Mandeville, who runs a house-keeping business, appears to be involved through an unsavory business partner in a forced-prostitution ring with immigrant women. Catherine can't figure out exactly what they're up to, or even whether Miss Mandeville is actually knows what her partner is doing to her well-reputed business. <br /> <br />At the same time, Phoebe has become ever more curious about the identity of her father, whom she has never met. In fact, BJ Johnson, the only man Catherine has ever loved, does not even know that he has a daughter. When BJ suddenly comes to Atlanta, Catherine is faced with the challenge of confessing to him that he has a seventeen-year-old daughter. To makes matters more complicated, BJ, a veteran newspaper reporter, knows more about Atlanta's forced-prostitution ring than he's letting on. When the savvy criminals realize that Catherine and her friends know too much, the close-knit group is faced with more than family drama. All of their lives are in danger.  <br /> <br />This novel has everything-good writing and a good story. Smart, intriguing, real characters. And it deals with real issues - poverty, the exploitation of women and children, money, power, greed, secrecy, love and trust. I love Catherine, and I especially love it that she is the kind of strong black women who really is real. She has taken care of herself and her family, and using her brains and her financial assets to do things that matter. No designer clothes or jacuzzis, but a superb education and exposure to the many different cultures of the world for herself and her daughter. And this book is about empowered women, and women empowering women, hence the title, \\"Babylon Sisters.\\" (If you don't get the title now, you'll understand it better as you read the book.) This book is one of the best black fiction novels that I've read all year. Read and enjoy! <br />	2005-06-29
US	43151646	R3V20BVDKC1EB1	0312336926	849329973	Snobs	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Fascinated by the snobbish and titled?  Maybe 3 and a half.	Set in the 1990s, SNOBS is the story of a middle class English woman who longs for the fanciful, leisurely, and self-important life of an aristocratic lady.  Once Edith Lavery achieves her goal and marries the pleasant but dull Earl Charles Broughton, she is almost immediately bored and resentful of her new life, and she leaves Charles and his distinguished family in order to have a prolongued affair with a beautiful, married, and marginally talented actor. Of course, she quickly grows disatisfied with that life as well, and has to try to get Charles back.  But getting near Charles is difficult, because most of her new friends have abondoned her and she has to counter the resistence of Charles' mother, who never thought that middle-class Edith belonged in their world anyway.  <br /> <br />Nearly every blurb or review that I encountered about this book said that it was a poignant,insightful and even sympathetic commentary on the rules, rituals, and habits of the dying English upper classes in this day and age. I suppose that I agree with those appraisals, though I have no idea if the world described in the book is realistic or accurate. But that didn't make me love the book. In my opinion, very little of the book is devoted to telling an actual story -- more of the book consists of history and anecdote and clever commentary about the unwritten rules and habits of the Ladies and Lords of England's upper crust. I admit that perhaps that story would not make as much sense for those of us who don't truly understand the context. But I got bored with both the story and with the anecdotes. I wasn't sympathetic to Edith's dreams or to her downfall, I am only so fascinated by snobbery. And ultimately, the only viewpoints in the book that are validated are the snobbish -- apparently, they are the \\"better\\" people, with more discipline and honor than the rest. While that theory would make for a lively book club discussion, I kept thinking, don't these people have anything betterto do? Movies to watch, concerts to attend? Charities to run? Emails to return? These people appear to be completely insulated from the modern day and age, and while I suppose that is precisely Fellowes point, I guess it just isn't MY cup of tea. In any case, I think that any real anglophile (which I am not), and anyone with any sort of Edwardian nostalgia, will really enjoy the book. <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	43151646	R1NIBIPQ0YGHBE	0373250517	543585297	Spitting Feathers (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Actually, a Three and a half --funny, though not spectacular	This story is really is funny and entertaining, and the plot moves at a constant and engaging pace. The plot isn't the thickest -- twenty-something Tao Tandy needs a steady job and a place to live.  With a friend's help and a little luck, Tao finds potential work with a photo talent agency and temporary place to stay by housesitting for a rich lady in an elite London neighborhood and babysitting the rich lady's African Grey (parrot). The agency work looks promising, and her temporary digs are quite comfy. But, of course, the housesitting isn't as easy as it seems, and the picky, spoiled parrot is cute, but seems to require constant supervision. Adventures ensue. In the end, Tao finds love, steady work, and a place to live, and manages to protect the parrot and the mansion from any permanent harm. I think this is a fun, light summer read!	2005-06-10
US	43151646	R20U0F5GC04PKT	0743226852	250310778	Maneater	Books	4	3	4	N	N	What's not to love?	There are a few things that I really love in my fiction selections-- one is a clever, PRESENT narrator, and the other is a story that keeps me laughing and guessing. MANEATER has them both. The author describes the fast-paced, status obsessed world of the novel with such sharpenss and humor and wit, I didn't want to miss a word of it. I admit that when I started the book, I wasn't sure that I would like Clarissa Regina Alpert (A.K.A., the maneater), but boy did she grow on me! She's funny, beautiful, semi-honest and shallow, without managing to appear to be fake. To the reader, anyway, she appears to be very upfront about the things in her life which are most important to her (that would be money, cars, shoes, shopping, clothes, and beautiful people who had access to the above). If nothing else, Clarissa's ability to focus and pursue a single goal (a rich husband) was quite admirable. I was also unable to guess the ending -- other than the fact that the happy couple would somehow reunite.  <br /> <br />The only thing I didn't get was why any of the women in Clarissa's \\"posse\\" put up with Evil Suzee, one of Clarissa's closest friends/enemies. I know every novel of this type needs a villian of some sort, but this particular villain had too many bad deeds to her credit to continue to be included in Clarissa's sacred circle of friends. I waited anxiously for someone to kick her a*%. Oh well. Otherwise, I wish I has read this book years ago! I hope it is still being made into a movie.	2005-06-10
US	43151646	R1BXRPTB2WZSWS	0373250703	440018257	Mafia Chic (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fun, adventurous, and entertaining read!	I really, really enjoyed this book. Red Dress Ink sometimess has its misses, but this one is a hit! MAFIA CHIC is the story of Theresa Marie Marcello Gallo, also known as Teddi Bear, the only grandaughter of a renowned mafia don in New York. Teddi is trying to make it on her own, and stay out of the family \\"business,\\" with the exception of accepting a few designer items that \\"fell off the back of a truck.\\" She owns and runs her own small restaurant, called Teddi's, and lives with her best friend Diana, the only person in her life she feels she can talk to about her family. In this book, in addition to trying to keep her restaurant in the black (legally),Teddi is also trying to date a WASPy new guy without letting her intimidating family scare him off, and trying to dodge a persistent (and cute) FBI agent who is watching her and her restaurant very, very closely. Oh, and trying to avoid getting hit by the \\"thunderbolt.\\" She only manages to achieve one of these goals, but it all turns out for the best.  <br /> <br />I'm not Italian, and not from a mob family, so I don't know if the book is realistic or not.  But it's funny and sweet and entertaining. The plot never stalls, and the writing is clear and witty.  And I really like it that although money is a clear benefit of her family, Teddi talks about her family as anyone else would -- she loves them, and she's embarrassed by them, and she wants to stand on her own two feet. The book is not about her being glamourous, it's about her being a real girl with ambitions and dreams of her own.	2005-06-01
US	43151646	R1BF5NIP7TZ3C6	0060536799	451520046	A Love Noire: A Novel	Books	3	12	13	N	Y	Je ne l'aime pas beaucoup, ce LOVE NOIRE	The title and the description on the inside cover made me raise my eyebrow a little bit. But I could not help but to be interested. The author is a scholar herself, and the character seemed to be living the life of my personal alter-ego -- a Ph.D student at NYU studying comparative literature. I mean, sounds good right?  Well, it's okay. The book and the story have promise, but this may also be the story of an author who just tried too hard.     First hint that she tried too hard -- the character's name is Noire Demain, which is literally translater as \\"Black Tomorrow.\\" For a self-described bohemian woman who shuns the black elite(Noire, not me), I thought the name was a little pushy. Too convenient. Second hint? The prose. Meaningless poetic sketches and clouds of incense and sexual haze.  Third hint? Forced conflict. Noire is in love with a man named Innocent from Cote d'Ivoire, Africa. Innocent is supposedly the opposite of Noire -- rich and sophisticated, and a member of the black bourgousie.  She's too artsy for him and he's too \\"mainstream\\" for her. But the only reason that I know that she and Innocent had conflict in their relationship is because the author says so. The author never SHOWS the conflict, using scenes and actions and dialogue. They ARGUE about differences, but there are curiously few scenes in which these \\"differences\\" are made clear to the reader. Noire's problem is apparently that she's too intense and passionate, and Innocent isn't -- I think because he's rich and hangs with other rich people. As a reader, I know I'm just supposed to accept that, but I couldn't. I was always thinking, \\"What was the big deal?\\" I never really get to understand what happens that makes them argue. Instead, I just got to read a lot of sex scenes.     Lastly, Noire was too confused to be likable for me. I can't figure out why in the world she thinks that an artistic and passionate nature are the antithesis of wealth and professional achievement.  In fact, everyonein the story seems to fall for that tired stereotype.  But even rich people can be passionate and eccentric.     Maybe all the missing pages ended up on the editor's floor. But in the end, A LOVE NOIRE falls short.	2005-05-26
US	43151646	R73T15389APN7	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Realistic or not, it was a good read.	When I started the book, I didn't get the hype.  The language didn't move me at first, and the characters didn't pull me in.  But about twenty pages in, I completely changed my mind.<br /><br />When she was four years old, Lily Owens killer her mother.  The gun was there, she picked it up, and then her mother was gone.  As a narrator, Lily tells the story in an honest, straightforward, and sometimes poetic way, but without any heartbreaking sadness. (In that way, the book reminded me of The Lovely Bones). Lily is left to be raised by her father, who isn't very good to her. As the story progressed, I began to think that perhaps her father resents her for killing her mother, and that's why he treats her so badly.<br /><br />Some reviewers have commented that the book isn't realistic. I'm not sure about that. Tragedies like the one that happened to Lily's family to happen. But some parts of the storyline were a little more fantastic. When you really think about it, it is a bit of a stretch to think that sometime in the 1964 south a 14 year old white girl would run away from home, and break a black woman out of jail on her way, and go to live in a pink house full of black beekeepers. Even more outlandish to think that the black woman who runs this house full of beekeepers knew Lily's mother, Deborah, when Deborah was a girl. Then there is the Mother Mary-based religion that these beekeepers have created --it's interesting, but more interesting that no one calls them heretics or blasphemers.<br /><br />All these things aside, I think that Lily's responses to these events remain genuine and believable. She has to take in a world that she knows she is supposed to be afraid of -- living and loving black people, and admitting that she isn't better than they are. She is too young to face her fears and tell the truth, so she lies to her new friends about who she is and where she is from, but I didn't lose patience with her for that. I think that was realistic -- she's too young to know the right thing to do. But her heart is in the right place.<br /><br />And this book, it speaks. It has its own language, its own view, its own lens. It's a mix of the ugly of reality (death, pain, hurt) and the comforts of fantasy. I think it works. And it is worth reading.ing to do. But her heart is in the right place.      And this book, it speaks. It has its own language, its own view, its own lens. It's a mix of the ugly of reality (death, pain, hurt) and the comforts of fantasy. I think it works. And it is worth reading.	2005-05-24
US	43151646	R3W3CH9E0SDG1W	0060085452	27148357	Boy Meets Girl (The Boy Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Creative way to tell a Modern Romance!	There is so much going on in this delightful little book, but it is hard put into a brief summary! Kate McKenzie, with a degree in social work and a passion for helping people, has moved to the Big Apple from Kentucky.  She works in human resources at a newpaper, and until recently, was still living with the Dale Carter, guy that she had been dating since high school. Dale is a member of a band called \\"I'm not Making Any more Sandwiches\\" and the band is on their way to signing a recording contract. He's read for fame and fortune, but after ten years with Kate, he still can't commit.  Well, Kate wants more than he loves her \\"today,\\" so she moves out, and onto the couch of her best friend, Jen.  <br /> <br />Kate has enough on her hands looking for a new apartment that she can actually afford, when she is forced to fire an loved employee of the paper -- the dessert lady, with the best cookies in town -- for refusing to serve a dessert to an obnoxious but influential lawyer for the paper. Kate soons finds her self involved in a wrongful-termination arbitration, and falling in love with Mitchell, the lawyer representing the paper. The problem? Kate doesn't like lawyers.  They represent all of the cruel, heartless, souless attitudes and institutions that Kate abhors. And Mitchell gets Kate fired from her job. And she still doesn't have a place to live.  <br /> <br />Besides a story that keeps moving and changing, what makes this book most delightful is the unconventional manner in which it is told -- entirely through email messages, instant messaging, messages on telephone answering machines, journal entries, and notes written on menus, receipts, and meeting agendas. The reader gets to know the characters, their lives, and their problems entirely through the messages that they leave in their daily communications with each other. As a person who uses email, text messaging and writes in a journal, I appreciated the messaging aspect -- in this day and age, we often communicate with our close friends more often by email and phone than in person.  And a collection of email exchanges between a group of people can tell an interesting story.  <br /> <br />The Lawyer in me doesn't appreciate the general assumptions about lawyers.  (We aren't THAT bad!) But the Nice Girl in me loved Kate, and the Feminist in me loved that she followed her heart and her conscience. Unlike many romances, we don't have to watch Kate convince herself to leave Dale and stay away. She knows she deserves better, and she follows through.	2005-04-22
US	43151646	R3FNI1OHZUY3QI	0767915674	959447804	Cosmopolitan Girls: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Just borrow it from someone.	Meet the Cosmopolitan Girls: Lindsay Bradley and Charlie Thorton.  Lindsay is from St. Louis, Missouri, and Charlie is from Buffalo, New York.  Both move to New York City, ready to find love and success and \\"take the city by storm.\\"  As young, beautiful black women, both are trying to balance professional ambitions with their romantic needs and desires. When they meet by chance in a bar in the city, they \\"click\\" instantly.  Each woman is comforted and inspired by the other, and they make plans to meet and talk again. They don't know it at first, but they are destined to meet each other and change each other's lives. <br /> <br />If you are still reading this review, you are probably thinking, \\"Well, that sounds a little after-school special' to me . . .\\"  And you are right. An after-school-special for God-fearing grown women who like to have sex - but only in a good-girl way - and who enjoy sista-girl bonding, mutual affirmation, and plotting revenge.  Often over an alcoholic drink. <br /> <br />I can't knock a positive story when I see one. And this is a positive, inspiring tale. These woman have their stuff together.  They are educated and ambitious. They support each other. They pursue their dreams. They  -mostly - make the right decisions.  But they make mistakes, too.  My goodness, they are human!  These women are role models . . . But still. The after-school special vibe was a little much. <br />	2005-04-12
US	43151646	RNIUV1O6V89RD	0380808900	186295370	Plain Brown Wrapper: An Alex Powell Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun, witty, and smart mystery novel!	PLAIN BROWN WRAPPER is a mystery novel starring Alexa Powell, a reporter at a Los Angeles newspaper.  When a friend and fellow member of the National Association of Black Journalists was murdered shortly before he was scheduled to receive a prestigious award at an Association banquet, everyone is wondering \\"whodunnit.\\"  Who would want to murder Everret Carson?  It turns out that a lot of people have motive.  So Alex Powell and her friend Paul Butler, a reporter at a paper in Washington, D.C., travel across the country for a few days, interviewing several important and colorful colleagues in the publishing industry would might know something about who killed Everret Carson.  Along the way, they encouter surprise, dead ends, a bit of danger, and a bit of romance.<br /><br />This novel was a really, really a pleasant find. The writing is intelligent, clear, and witty. The characters are funny and smart and realistic. The storyline is well-developed.  And no matter how I tried, I was unable to guess who the culprit was until the end of the novel, which is a good thing with a mystery novel. I had never even heard of this novel before, but the endorsement of Henry Louis Gates, Jr., on the back of the book told me that I should give it a try.  And I have heard the author, Karen Grigsby Gates, on NPR several times-- she is an excellent reporter, like Alex Powell. This is an excellent book for travel or a vacation, and I think that even readers who don't normally read a lot of mystery novels will really enjoy this novel.	2005-04-06
US	43151646	R1MT1MIVTLISL4	1594200076	469542612	Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September 10, 2001	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Want to understand what happened before 9-11? Read this!	Of all the books that I have read in the last few years, I think that this was the one that I am most proud to say that I read.  Taking no sides, Steven Coll explains the politics, alliances and events of the world pre-9-11 in an interesting and straightforward manner, but without avoiding the essential fact that the world was complicated, and the right decisions weren't always clear or obvious. Even if I don't like war, I finally understand exactly why we went to war, and who we are fighting against.   <br /> <br />Like most intelligent people, I like to have a general awareness of global politics and events. But I was honestly too young in the 1970s and 1980s to be expected to remember any of the events surrounding the United States involvment in Afghanistan or the history of islamist fundamentalist groups.  So I certainly had only a slight understanding of how all of these events led up to the events of Tuesday, September 11, 2001. The book is hard to summarize, and takes a while to read -- the material is certainly dense. But its worth reading. It didn't change my perspective, but it certainly \\"informed\\" it a whole lot better. Coll did an AMAZING job with this book, and it deserves all the accolades that it has received.	2005-04-06
US	43151646	ROZAMONABSDIJ	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Delightful, unexpected, and real!	There are years when I fail to understand why a particular work has won the Pulitzer Prize.  This is not such an instance. Middlesex is a fascinating, almost addictive read! <br /> <br />Before I read this book, I would not have known what to make of a story about a hermaphrodite.  I am not even sure that I would have been able to say that I was interested. But this book takes a subject often considered mythical, freakish, and taboo, and turns it into a wonderfully human, real, sympathetic, and even NATURAL sequence of events. Calliope, or \\"Cal\\" Stephanides is an amazing narrative voice. She tells you about herself (or himself) just with her (or his) voice, subtly, so that you come to know her just as much by the way she tells a story as by the story that she tells. From Greece and Asia Minor to Ellis Island, to Detroit and the suburbs of Michigan, the novel guided me through places and history in a truly unique, somewhat sequential way -- and from the perspective of a Greek immigrant family, whose observations and comments on the world are just as interesting and important as the world itself. As Cal tells the stories of her the different generations of her family, partly to explain the genetic abnormality that finally surfaced when Calliope/Cal was born, she really brings it all to life -- the social issue and trends of the different decades, the wars and conflicts, the changing philosophies and political attitudes. Its all there, it all fits, and it all works. I hate to ruin any more of the plot, so I will say only that it does have a relatively happy ending, and that if you have the chance you MUST read this book.	2005-04-01
US	43151646	RBWZ6F9VL8EV0	0399152016	926428380	The Accidental Diva	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Pleasurable Read, but Nothing "Accidental"	This fun, quick read is about life and romance of Billie Burke, a 26-year old African American woman working at a major fashion magazine as a beauty editor. She is \\"fabulous\\" (meaning fashionable and attractive) and very successful at what she does, even though she has never been in love and hasn't had sex in five years. When she meets the up and coming writer Jay Lane, she falls instantly in love.  But the ride is a little bumpy, and she has to learn how to balance her consuming love for this man from the other side of the tracks (and a tragic, troubled past) with having her own life and fulfilling her own responsibilities.  She falters, but she eventually begins to figure it all out.  <br /> <br />Tia Williams first book was a good, fun read. Her writing is clear and funny, the characters are thoroughly likeable, and the story was well developed and thorough. If it weren't for the almost random and porn-like sex scene on page 59 (and another one towards the end), and the constant celebrity name dropping, I don't think I would have a single complaint.  <br /> <br />Here's the thing: I actually read magazines like the one that Billie works for in the book, including the several magazines that Tia Williams has worked for over the years. (I have been a Tia Williams fan myself, admiring her work in the otherwise whitebread world of the fashion industry.) I have been following the fabulous lives of supermodels and various beautiful people since I was in eighth grade. I spend plenty of time as the only fabulous black girl hanging out with fabulous white folks who sometimes make strange comments. I do air kiss my girlfriends, I can picture the Fendi and Coach bags that they carry, and I am thoroughly addicted to lip gloss. Thank goodness for that, because otherwise, the name dropping and industry references and conversations would have been totally lost on me.  Either that, or totally annoying. I would not recommend this book to anyone who does not enjoy reading Elle, Vogue and the like.  <br /> <br />And while I generally liked and admired Billie's character, I found some of her behavior a little strange. Maybe unbelievable. For instance, that a girl who had never been in love, hadn't had sex for five years, and who was described as intelligent, nerdy, careful, and practical, would suddenly get naked in the back seat of a taxi with a man that she had just met. Huh? I have no problems with \\"wild and wanton,\\" but the rest of Billie Burke just does not fit with the wild, sex-crazed woman in these scenes.  <br /> <br />Overall, the book was a fun read. It was well-written had a lot of funny and clever dialogue. The characters and the scenes did come to life. And if high fashion and air kisses don't annoy you, I think you'll enjoy this book, too.	2005-03-30
US	43151646	R2700TIG2CA76L	0385512821	472956853	The Finishing School: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Light, Witty, and Delightful	I read a review of this book and was rather intrigued at the description -- about a creative writing teacher's jealousy of the writing talent of one of his pupils. I ordered the book and was surprised and even suspicious of the \\"slightness\\" of it. This book is so small--the hardback edition is smaller than a small paperback book.   And, after a slow start, I really got into it.  <br /> <br />The teacher's name is Rowland, and the student's name is Chris. Both are trying to write novels, and Chris is much further along with the process than Rowland is, and seemingly much more destined for success, due to his young age and his good looks -- every publisher is looking for a prodigy.  Chris's book is about the Mary Queen of Scots, but, even thought it is a historical novel, Chris is completely uninterested in making it historically accurate. He has a confidence about his book and his writing that disturbs Rowland, who eventually becomes obsessed with Chris.  <br /> <br />The story is funny, without being too deliberately or obviously so, and the writing is simple and clever, even if Sparks use of language is more than a little out-of-date. Overall, it took only about a day to read --reading during breakfast, lunch, and after work, and it was well worth it. It's short, but she didn't need any more time to tell this story, or to make the characters memorable.	2005-03-16
US	43151646	R1WDJXGWRLWHIH	0805075062	503571686	The Professor's Daughter: A Novel	Books	3	10	16	N	Y	Moral of the story: it's an unbearable burden to be black	I read two great reviews about this book in the same week.  Curious and intrigued by a story of a birracial woman that is more than a sexually charged romance, I bought it immediately. I was disapointed.<br /><br />It wasn't that it was a bad book. The writing is good, precise, poetic. And Emma Boudreaux's story is interesting, and the story of her father, her brother, her family, is captivating and heartbreaking at the same time. But the messages, the themes, that I am left with are (1) that it is a harsh, cruel and almost unbearable burden to be black in America, and (2) the smart people who are black or mixed belong nowhere. On one hand, that isn't the message that I expected at all, so I was quite surprised. On the other, I actually find the message kind of offensive.<br /><br />Emma's father is a Princeton Professor who so hates being black that he marries a white woman that he does not love, just so that his children won't look like him. (To me, no matter what the root of it, that's called self-hatred, and it isn't inherent in being of any particular race.) Throughout his entire marriage, he retains an unsettled feeling that all he had accomplished will be somehow mysteriously taken away from him -- his academic achievemments, his family, his home. He is never hapy. He lives an unhappy and secluded life, always detached from his wife and children, and ultimately leaves them. Emma's brother is tragic for no reason. I suppose he acts out because his father is not there, even when he is physically present, and his grandfather is a secret.  And Emma composes haiku's from the age of 8 or 9. I'm a smart girl myself, but I find that disturbing, not clever or impressive. She never seems to have any friends and defines herself at all times through her tragic older brother. I didn't like any of the characters, except perhaps Emma's maternal aunt, who appears for maybe two chapters.<br /><br />I read that Emma Boudreaux is Emily Raboteau, and it's no coincidence that their names are similar. I hope this isn't really true. I have sympathy for the characters in the book, and perhaps for the author, in the sense that what has happened to them is sad and unfortunate. But I really hope that the author does not find it quite so tragic and unbearable to be black or mixed in the United States. Often difficult, but not a burden that always ends in disaster. In fact, there are even good things about it. Happy, beautiful things. I am sorry Emily and Emma missed out on all of that.	2005-03-16
US	43151646	R3Q6DCVVCXYWZD	0060566280	210414807	Lost in the City	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Phenomenal!	I have a strange suspicion that I would not have read Lost in the City if Edward P. Jones had not won the Pulitzer Prize for The Known World.  And I think that would have been a big, big mistake.  <br /> <br />This is an excellent collection of short stories, even for someone who doesn't really know a thing about Washington, D.C. or the people who live there. The stories aren't short stories in the most traditional sense - they don't end with surprising or inevitable events or revelations.  But each and every glimpse into the lives of these characters is interesting, thoughtful, and specific.  Jones manages to  paint a colorful, human, and memorable picture of the lives of each of the characters he introduces.  <br /> <br />Perhaps the most arresting part of his the stories, for me, is the language.   There are so many passages that I will remember, but I will only share a few. In the story \\"Young Lions,\\" a character named Caesar says to his girlfriend that he loves her:   <br /> <br /> \\"I'm glad you told me,\\" she said.  \\"I was beginning to  wonder.  You made my day.\\" <br /> He promised to fix her dinner before to went to Manny's and he told her once again that he loved her. <br /> \\"I wish I could record that,\\" she said, \\"and play it back any time I wanted.\\"  <br /> <br />These lines alone told me so, so much about the girlfriend, Carol, and I know that I won't forget her.  Later, a character in a story called \\"The Sunday Following Mother's Day\\" notes that her father \\"sounded like every black country person she had ever heard, those people who talked of fetchin this and wearin britches and someone commencin to do such and such.\\"  I laughed out loud, because I, too, know some of these country people, and Jones's description is perfect.  In the last story, \\"Marie,\\" Jones write that Marie \\"was eighty-six years old, and had learned that life was all chaos and painful uncertainty and that the only way to get through it was to expect to chaos even in the most innocent ofmoments.  Offer a crust of bread to a sick bird and you often drew back a bloody finger.\\"   <br /> <br /> Another delightful aspect of the book is that characters don't disappear at the end of a story.  The two teenage girls who appear briefly in \\"The Night Rhonda Ferguson Was Killed,\\" pregnant and moving in together, show up again as adults with 20-year old sons in \\"His Mother's House.\\"  Two other characters in \\"Rhonda Ferguson\\" also appear in their own story in \\"A Butterfly on F Street.\\"  There are a few other characters who appear twice, and I believe that several minor characters in this collection will appear in Jones's next short story collection, which should be published this year.  (One of the stories was already published in the New Yorker.)  I can't wait to read them all.  <br />	2005-02-25
US	43151646	R60QTRAOHEZZV	1400047919	154370008	Roadrunner: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A story of love, relationships, betrayal, and forgiveness	I read Ms. Thomas's first novel, and I was eager to read the second. I am torn on whether or not to say that I was disappointed. I will assume that you have some idea of what the story was about, from reading the reviews above.  My problem was not with storyline, but with the depth. I still don't feel like I got to know Leah -- who she was, what motivated her. For example, when the author writes at the end of the story was Leah had been unhappy in her marriage for a while, I am surprised to read it. That wasn't clearly conveyed before. It was clear that her husband, Dell, had problems, but not that she or that he had been unhappy for years before the problems began. I was also able to quess where Dell had been after he \\"disappeared,\\" long before it was clearly revealed, and I really, really wish that Ms. Thomas had concealed that from the reader a little more, so that it would have been more of a suprise. As it was, there was neither buildup nor shock when I learned where he had been.   <br /> <br />Finally, I will say that I truly enjoyed the portrayal of Angel.  Thomas does a good job of getting into his past, his thoughts, his motivations, his desires in a subtle, but intriquing way. I enjoyed the way she played up his moral, concerned-officer role slowly.  He seems like he is just has a crush on Leah, and bit by bit it is clear that he is self-righteous, controlling, petty, and selfish, not just obsessed. He really did seem harmless at first, and the reader slowly comes to see that he isn't quite right, even though he doesn't see that himself. Ms. Thomas makes it clear that Angel finds his actions justified.  <br /> <br />Overall, I enjoyed the book. I appreciate that it was not a completely frivolous read, raising some interesting, important questions about love and relationships and forgiveness.  And betrayal. And I do recommend it, and I look forward to reading her third book.  I'll be going to the bookstore today.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-02-11
US	43151646	R3RHTRNKY76IIF	0743242157	194728824	Anyplace I hang My Hat	Books	4	9	9	N	N	An impressive and intelligent heroine	This was a very compelling and intelligent read that I would recommend to anyone who would enjoy an intelligent tale of a woman's personal growth. (I received this book as a Christmas present, and I am so grateful that someone finally understood my tastes in reading material!)  <br /> <br />Amy's story is memorable -- she was abandoned by her mother as an infant, and raised by her delusioned, neglectful paternal grandmother, and by her father, when he was not in jail. She sees school and education as an escape, and when she has the chance, she accepts a scholarship at an elite boarding school. From there, she attends Harvard and Columbia school of journalism, and gets a job as a writer for a serious news magazine. Her travels through the different social levels of urban New York, from the projects to prisons to political circles to elite boarding schools, result in really striking and thought provoking commentary. (I didn't agree with every thing that Amy or the other characters said, and, happily, it didn't appear that Issacs was offering a lecture.) At the same time, the story is accessibly comtemporary, making frequent reference to recent world events and popular culture in a way that grounds the story in a particular time and place and gives the impression that Amy is not so devoted to politics and CSPAN that she has never watched reality TV.  <br /> <br />Susan Issac creates a intelligent, self-sufficient, yet vulnerable character and neither Issacs not her character seems inclined to understimate the intelligence of the reader. Amy is charming, smart (reading four or five newspapers a day with a keen interest in politics and current events) and interested in what is going on in the world around her. In order to grasp and appreciate some of Amy's wit and social criticism, the reader is expected to be a smart, well-aware person as well.  Amy Lincoln is a truly memorable literary character, incredibly thoughtful, observant, honest, witty, and vulnerable.  <br /><br />One of my favorite scenes is one where Amy falls in her apartment (she later learns that she had broken three ribs) and she is unable to get up off the floor.  She is in pain, and worried that she had really hurt herself. She wants to call someone and ask for help, but is afraid that no one would be interested enough to come and help her. She does call an aquaintance, lying on her back on the floor, but she is unable to bring herself to tell him what has happened to her. When she can't keep him on the phone any longer, she makes her way to her bedroom, and in the morning takes herself to an emergency room. The quiet, resigned way in which she deals with her aloneness is heartbreaking and impressive at the same time. Though scared, Amy never seems depressed. I hope that this book gets the attention it deserves.	2005-02-09
US	43151646	R32Y5W85TX9MBL	0060916516	869444097	Jonah's Gourd Vine	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of the best books I have ever read	I always thought of Toni Morrison as the leader, the queen, and the matriarch of black women's fiction, but the more I read of Zora Neale Hurston, the more I feel that everyone else must have taken their cues from her! <br /> <br />Her writing is enchanting and thought provoking, her use of \\"black\\" language is absolutely delightful. The story and the characters are interesting in and of themselves. What makes this work really shine is the language, and the heritage and history that it preserves.  She takes care to write the way that people speak, resulting a unorthodox spelling and usage that at first I had to say out loud in order to properly understand. (My grandmother didn't have to do that, though, and for that reason alone, she loved Zora Hurston.)  Ms. Hurston also uses words, idioms and phrases that are unique to black america, and that my generation would likely have lost -- the news of the \\"Black Dispatch,\\" \\"Old Hannah\\" rising,  \\"hittin' a straight lick with a crooked stick.\\" Some of the sayings I remember my Grandmother using, and some I remember using as a child. I found all of them interesting and beautiful, and I am grateful to Ms. Hurston for finding them valuable enough to put down.  <br />	2005-01-24
US	43151646	R1MEA4OR9WKXD7	0060549424	356251928	Always True to You	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting tale, sympathetic characters	I purchased this book off of a clearance rack at a local bookstore. It only cost me the price of a movie ticket, and in my opinion, that is about all it was worth. I would have been annoyed if I had paid $15 for a book that I finished so quickly. As I predicted, it was about as entertaining as the average love story that I see at the movie theater, and though enjoyable, nothing to rave about. The writing was clear and to the point, though not especially moving or poetic.<br /><br />I did appreciate the uncommon interests of her characters -- they were makers of, sellers of, and buyers of African American art. I come from a family of art collectors, though not one as glitzy as those she writes about, and it was nice to see a black author glamourize a world other than sports, drugs, music or the movie industry.<br /><br />Medora and TW were especially interesting characters to me, because of their art and because of Medora's strength and resolve, despite her relationship with her father. I wanted to know more about them. After reading the descriptions, I really wanted to see her paintings. Initially, I even thought that the story was about Medora. But it wasn't, not really. It was about her ex, and the other women with whom he was involved. Overall, I enjoyed getting to know all the characters. I would read about them again.	2005-01-24
US	43151646	RN3WXII8UZ2YK	1573226580	202727782	Soul Kiss: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Memorable coming-of-age story, but incomplete	I would actually give this book somewhere between three stars and four stars.   <br /> <br />Poetry is an amazing thing, and my favorite place to find poetry is locked in with prose.  This book consists of almost nothing but prose/poetry, and I think that is a good thing. The words are captivating. At the same time, I thought that some of the \\"poetry\\" did not have enough meaning, and in some places it made me think that the author had tried to hard, unecessarily, to make poetry instead of telling the story. Overall, I wanted more. Despite all the difficult events that Mariah, the protagonist, suffered through, I finished the book understanding only that Mariah had had a hard life, and still not knowing Mariah very much at all. The metaphors and the colorful images painted by the poetic lines were often interesting, but sometimes hard to accept coming from someone of Mariah's age without any childlike ways, habits, or vulnerabilities to temper them.	2005-01-07
US	43151646	R1WE4FHOQ2KBNW	0312316518	64177854	Divas, Inc.	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Entertaining, but no substance.	I saw this book in Essence and recommended it for my book club. I did think that the book was funny and entertaining, but it really lacked substance, and I was disappointed that I was able to guess who the Grand Diva was halfway through the book. I thought that the plot had promise, and I appreciated the lessons in self reliance and self confidence that Margaret learned. But why perpetuate the myth that black women have to be \\"Diva's\\" with overpriced clothing and fancy cars in order to succeed? Why would Margaret have to do so much lying to learn these simple lessons? (She could have asked someone, or read a self-help book.)  Considering her proximity to the Grand Diva, how is it even possible that Margaret grew up NOT learning these things, while her best friends had the \\"inside track\\" all along? And why were her \\"Diva\\" friends dressing up in disguise and slumming in the ghetto???? Donna Hill never explains what that was all about.  Overall, there were so many little things that didn't make sense, and a few threads of the story that the author never tied together. I do not regret buying the book, because I want to support black authors. But, Donna Hill had a good story line. She could have delivered more.	2005-01-05
US	43151646	RGGJJLME3NZ10	140003180X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 4)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Read the entire series!	People often recommend books to me when they realize how much I read, and most recommendations are not to my taste.  But I am forever grateful to the person to recommended these books to me! I have read them all, and I waited with anticipation for each new book to come out. The stories are so sweet, wise, affirming, and touching, and the writing so simply poetic! I have really enjoyed getting to know Precious and her friends and clients. I gave one of the books to my mother, and she called me to request that I get the rest of them for her! She marvels that such a story was written by a white man, but she has become a fan nevertheless. I hope that you will be, too.	2005-01-05
US	43151646	R2SKTGZ2MNCZ0R	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	My favorite of the series! Read them all!	People often recommend books to me when they realize how much I read, and most recommendations are not to my taste.  But I am forever grateful to the person to recommended these books to me! I have read them all, and I waited with anticipation for each new book to come out. The stories are so sweet, wise, affirming, and touching, and the writing so simply poetic! I have really enjoyed getting to know Precious and her friends and clients. I gave one of the books to my mother, and she called me to request that I get the rest of them for her! She marvels that such a story was written by a white man, but she has become a fan nevertheless.	2005-01-05
US	43151646	R2EB73YI3HOBKW	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A beautiful story that will bring a smile to your face!	People often recommend books to me when they realize how much I read, and most recommendations are not to my taste.  But I am forever grateful to the person to recommended these books to me! I have read them all, and I waited with anticipation for each new book to come out. The stories are so sweet, wise, affirming, and touching, and the writing so simply poetic!  <br /> <br />Another reviewer asked about the language used in the book -- it is Setswana.  As I understand it, \\"Mma and Rra\\" are the equivalent of Sir and Madam, and \\"Dumela\\" means good morning. I believe that \\"Mme\\" is \\"mother.\\"  <br /> <br />I have really enjoyed getting to know Precious and her friends and clients. I gave one of the books to my mother, and she called me to request that I get the rest of them for her! She marvels that such a story was written by a white man, but she has become a fan nevertheless. I hope you will, too. Have a cup of bush tea and enjoy!	2005-01-05
