US	43152633	R3949EYEF3QAP0	0439652235	197208734	Maia of Thebes, 1463 B.C.	Books	4	4	8	N	N	The life of ancient Egypt	It is 1493 B.C. and Egypt is a thriving empire under the rule of a female Pharoah, Hatshepsut. It is during this time that Maia lives, in the major city of Thebes. However Maia's life is cruel and harsh just like the waters of the Nile when it floods. Her and her brother were orphaned and left to live with their uncle and aunt. Maia's life is full of hardship as her uncle and aunt treat her poorly and constantly berate her. Maia knows she must find a way out before her life is ruined. She secretly pleads with her brother, Sethnet, to teach her how to read and write since he is studying to be a scribe. Sethnet finally does agree and the course of Maia's life is dramatically changed as she will use this new skill to her advantage and finally escapes Thebes and her unwelcome uncle. This book was a good edition to the Life and Times Series. Ann Turner has always been good at writing historical fiction and this book was another classic Ann Turner book. She successfully brings to life the daily working of Ancient Egypt and the intrigue that goes along with that era. Will be a good read for fans of the series.	2005-05-21
US	43152633	R3M8DMMF3DIXV7	0060725125	750389760	Ninth Key (The Mediator, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another great installment	Suze is not your normal sixteen year old girl. She is a mediator---a person who guards wayward souls(ghosts)back to where they should be, their final resting place. Of course being a mediator also causes some social problems for Suze. After moving to California, so far for Suze things have been fab. Even the hottest guy in town, Tad Beaumont, asked her out! Everything couldn't be better. That is until the ghost of a dead woman shows up in the middle of the night and screams for Suze to find a guy named \\"Red\\" and tell him he isn't responsible for her death. Tracking down a murderer is pretty hard but when things lead to \\"Red\\" Beaumont, Tad's dad, things get alittle tricker. After not listening to Father Dominick, a fellow Mediator, who also happens to be Suze's principal, Suze goes all by herself to see Red only to find out he might be a vampire. Things get even crazier as Suze digs deeper into the mystery and finds out about coverups, mysterious disappearances, and a web of deceit. <br />Another good edition to the Mediator series. A lot of unexpected twists and turns and Jesse and Suze are such a cute couple!	2005-05-14
US	43152633	R6BBNRUADG54J	0060725141	713783703	Darkest Hour (The Mediator #4)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	We find out about Jesse!	It's Suze's sixteen summer---her first in sunny California---but instead of relaxing and getting a tan, she's stuck working as a baby-sister at a hotel resort, not to mention the boy she is babysitting, Jack, turns out to be a young, budding mediator and that his older brother Paul does have some boyfriend potential. Things start going from okay to bad when Suze is awakened by Maria de Silva---the ex-finacee of the 150 year old hot ghost that shares Suze's bedroom, Jesse---with a knife to Suze's neck, telling Suze to stop her stepdad, Andy, from digging up Jesse's body from her own backyard. Suze has a good idea that when the body of Jesse is discovered she might lose him forever, but she isn't about to help Maria de Silva. Suze knows, however, Maria de Silva will do anything to stop the digging, even if it does mean killing Suze. As Suze digs deeper into the mystery surprising things happen in a world that Suze can't control, but even though helping Jesse might risk certain death onto herself, Suze is ready for the challenge.  <br /> <br />Wow! What can I say? The best Mediator book yet with revelations at every corner that are more shocking that before. This is definitely a pivatol book in the series and a turning point. The cliffhanger ending makes you want the next book, Haunted, like crazy.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	R3GQPRH2SNK0VC	0439661587	685594413	The Secrets of Droon #24: The Race to Doobesh	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A race not to be missed	In the 24th edition of the Droon series, Lord Sparr's evil stepfather Ko is back and deadlier than ever. Ko and his beasts have now entered Doobesh, a city of swindlers, thieves, pirates, and people of the vile kind. Nobody can be trusted in this city, and Ko is using the magical forge in the city to create powerful armor for his army, an army that will be like none other. The kids, Eric, Neal, and Julie along with Princess Keeah realize that if Ko succeeds in making the armor, he would be unstoppable and destroy Droon as we know it. Their only option to save Droon is to destroy the armor first before Ko can use it. Can the kids outwit Ko and save the day once again? Read and you shall find out. Let the race begin! Once again this was a well written children's book. Good for young kids who are just starting more challenging reading.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	RLEXI8NQJWU16	0060725117	669250163	Shadowland (The Mediator #1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great beginning	Susannah---Suze for short--- Simmon has just moved from her longtime home of New York City to the quiet town of Carmel, California to live with her new family which consists of, unfortunately, three new stepbrothers who Suze has nicknamed Sleepy, Dopey, and Doc. Besides that her new life is actrully pretty cool. That is until she finds a 150 year old hot ghost named Jesse living in her bedroom. You see, Suze is a mediator---a person who guards wayward souls back to their final resting places, wherever that might be. For Suze, this gift she has is more like a curse. But at least this new ghost who is sharing her bedroom is pretty attractive, not like Heather, the crazy ghost at her school who is out to revenge her own suicide. It looks to Suze like alittle talking isn't going to help getting Heather back where she should be...it is time for some action. This was a pretty thrilling beginning to the Mediator series. Coupled with some humor, and twist and turns that keep you guessing this book is definitely to be read.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	RXNFVSLCH6QTQ	0060751649	896407110	Haunted (The Mediator #5)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The living nightmare...	Susannah (Suze) Simon is not your ordinary sixteen year old girl. She is a mediator, a person who guides wayword souls to their final resting place. After going through a hectic summer and finally kissing Jesse, the hot 150 year old ghost who lives in her room, Suze is ready to get back to school. Things though just don't go Suze's way. The new guy in school is creating a lot of buzz and it just happens to be Paul Slater, a hot, but very evil fellow mediator whose been giving Suze nightmares all summer. Suze though is intent on staying committed to Jesse, even though he has been avoiding her ever since their intimate kiss and it doesn't help that Paul seems to know a lot more than Suze does about a mediator's powers and what it could do to certain ghost, like Jesse. Not only does Suze have to deal with Paul, but her stepbrother Sleepy has brought back a new college friend who also happened to bring along a resentful dead brother. Things aren't working the way Suze had hoped for and for once her fears may be catching up with her. <br /> <br />This book had so many plotlines and what Paul said about mediators was somewhat confusing. The next book should clear up some of the confusion though. This overall had to be the weakest book in the series. The humor and edginess was definitely missing but it is still a good read even though Meg Cabot wasn't at her best.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	R1LGJ9F8B9PS11	0439671736	14759611	The Riddle of Zorfendorf Castle (The Secrets of Droon #25)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Revelations	The kids, Eric, Neal, and Julie have always known about Zorfendorf Castle. However, it is only when Emperor Ko, the stepfather of Lord Sparr, launches a surprise attack on the city that the kids know that the mysterious city has its own secrets. Before the kids only knew that there was only one passage between the Upper World and Droon,the magical rainbow staircase that they enter Droon through each time. But now everything has changed. Under Zorfendorf Castle lies a huge secrets, one that Ko is desperate to use, the Fifth River, another way into the Upper World. The kids know they must stop Ko from getting to the river, but how? Once again they must come up with a plan to save the day. Another wonderful adventure. Can't wait for further installments.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	R9Z8598NLJK8H	0060725133	487343424	The Mediator Reunion	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Four teens out for alittle revenge	When Gina, Suze's longtime friend from NYC comes to visit her in sunny California, Suze hopes to have some fab times. Unfortunately four dead students nicknamed the \\"RLS Angels\\" from Robert Louis-Stevenson High School aren't going to let her. Not only are these four kids the most popular people in the school, they were everything. It turns out that after a wild party the four were heading home when they got into a car accident with Suze's fellow student Micheal Meducci, a geek, and crashed throught the barriers by the cliff falling to their deaths. These four headstrong teens aren't about to just let go of that wonderful life before destroying the geek that killed them, Micheal. For Suze it is just another everyday problem of being a Mediator---a person who guides wayward soul back to their final resting place. Unfortunately these four are not your regular ghosts, and they will stop at nothing to get revenge, even if it means killing anyone who stands in their way. Suze finds herself having to pretend to like Micheal so that she can protect him. Suze soon finds out that things aren't so simple and begins to find a deeper side of what happened in that accident, an accident that might not have been an accident at all. But why would Micheal Meducci want any part in killing four people he hardly knew? Nothing right? Think again... <br />This was anothe great edition to the Mediator series. It has so many twists and turns you wouldn't expect and illustrates the dark side of teen popularity, parties, and clinques.	2005-05-14
US	43152633	R3ETBWUN8OXXIV	0698118413	37363988	I Am Mordred: A Tale of Camelot	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Can you change destiny?	Most people familiar with the Arthur legend know of the father-son conflict between Arthur and his illegitmate son, Mordred, a product of a one night stand with Morgause, Arthur's half sister. Because of the unfortunate events leading up to his conception, Mordred is seen as being born evil, predestined to do harmful acts. The wizard Melin phrophesizes that Mordred's fate is to kill his father and destroy Camelot. Thus Arthur tries to kill Mordred when he was a baby, yet Mordred is saved by a fisherman and his wife. When young Mordred learns of his true identity, he rides to Camelot hoping to become a knight and finally get to know his famous father. Yet Camelot is not what Mordred had hoped for. His father, Arthur, doesn't even so much as acknowledge him and the affection that Mordred hopes Arthur would show him is nonexistent. Mordred becomes a loner in Camelot and soon begins to hear voices in his head telling him to fulfill his phrophecy. Mordred, longing for Arthur's love and acceptance, would do almost anything to cheat his destiny, even selling his soul. <br /> <br />I Am Mordred is one of the best works on Mordred I have ever seen. He is one of the most misunderstood characters in the myth and the preconception that he is evil because of the circumstances of his conception is quite unfair. Springer tries, and effectively, pictures Mordred as a young man trying to fight his destiny, yet the more he tries, the more closer he comes to fulfilling the fate we all know happened. The reader feels very sympathetic towards Mordred, yet sits there unable to save him. In the end you realize that Mordred was not what the famous Arthur authors wrote him to be, born evil, but instead a boy that needed love and attention from a father he so wanted acceptance from, but in the came up empty. Like I am Morgan Le Fay, this book is more of a physcological work that raises new questions to previous assumptions. I definitely recommend this book to all fans of Camelot. It is one of the best.	2004-12-04
US	43152633	R2CY6W8W8KQP7B	0060541121	136102258	Burying the Sun	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A boy who wanted to make a difference...	In Buring the Sun, the continuation of the stories first told in Angel on the Square and The Impossible Journey, 14-year-old Georgi and his family have returned to the city of Leningrad, rented a little apartment, and started up a new life. Leningrade, 1941, is a peaceful city, grand and beautiful but all changes when Germany turns against Russia and WWII finally hits the communist country. Suddenly Georgi's life becomes a whirlwind of change in preparation of war. His mother joins the Russian army as a nurse, his sister Marya is working at the Hermitage, a museum, where she is helping pack up the artwork so that they can be sent somewhere safer. Georgi is too young to join the Russian army but that doesn't stop him from trying to help the war effort. He and his friends do tasks around the city to help the needy. However the days grow darker as food and supplies is cut off from the city and the residents are literally starving to death. Georgi sees the once grand and tall city change in just a few months into hell. Is there some way he can help the city survive? <br /> <br />Gloria Whelan has once again written a poignant historical novel. Like its two predecessors, Burying the Sun doesn't try to hide the cruelities of war and famine. Instead Whelan tells the truth in a way that is not too horrific but still gets the suffering across. Her biggest achievement though is showing how the determination of one young boy managed to illuminate a city shrouded in the darkness of war.	2004-11-27
US	43152633	R6C05QC9QELTK	0689866593	261025368	2: The Stolen (The Nine Lives of Chloe King)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Order of the Tenth Blade...	Sixteen-year-old Chloe King used to be the typical teenager until she started growing claws and developing feline characteristics, including developing nine lives. However Chloe's secret abilities not only make her special, but targeted, by The Order of the Tenth Blade, an organization out to destroy all of Chloe's kind. Gradually Chloe begins to understand her true nature and that she is part of the Mai, and Easter European species of humans that have developed unual powers of a cat. Chloe is not alone in her fight against The Order of the Tenth Blade, who will stop at nothing to destroy the Mai. However keeping herself alive may be easy compared to keeping her family and friends, Amy and Paul alive. Unfortunately they don't have NINE lives, they just have one. Can Chloe trust Brian, a member of the Order who says he is on her side to help her? And what about her attractions to him? Are these attraction making her blind to Brian's true nature? Ultimately, can she trust him? <br /> <br />More developments in the second book made this a tad better than the first installment. There were more suspensful moments and the book moved along just fine. Still not the best supernatural series out there which is why it doesn't deserve 5 stars. Still, I really recommend teens who enjoy the FEARLESS series, which just ended, to pick up this new series.	2004-11-24
US	43152633	R2UJ7PO7NL0HA0	0439524539	978256900	Atticus Of Rome 30 B.C. (The Life And Times)	Books	2	12	13	N	N	An unfortunate work by a good author	In a story somewhat similar to \\"Gladiator\\", Atticus,a young boy, is sold to a high level Roman politician as a slave after his mother and sister were both killed by Roman soldiers, and his father was separated from him. It turns out that his owner, Master Lucius Opimius, is a spy for the Emperor, on the lookout for any traiters. Opimius eventually makes Atticus a spy himself and unexpectatly one day Atticus hears the plot to assasinate the emperor. Atticus and his Master manage the foil the assasination attempt and at the celebration festeval, Atticus meets the one person he never thought he'd see again, his father.  <br /> <br />I'm sad that I have to give only two stars to an author whose books in the Dear America series I have thoroughlly enjoyed. Unfortunately there were just so many things wrong with Attiucs. The plot had tons of holes and the writing style was just so dull. It took me 4 days to read this book when it would usually only take me 1 if it were interesting. I don't see little kids having enough resolve to finish such a dull book that falls flat in the end. There really was no climax and I don't rememeber one time that I felt on the edge of my seat or had any anticipation. There were also other numerous mistakes that the editor should have caught but didn't. The good thing is that the other book in this series, Pandora of Athens, is quite enjoyable and should be read even if you didn't enjoy this book. Overall a big disappointment. After Pandora, I was expecting something way better than this big mess of a book.	2004-11-14
US	43152633	RBAF3CK1OJK4J	043964982X	402579856	Pandora of Athens, 399 B.C (Life and times)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good but wished it were longer	Pandora is thirteen-years-old and lives in 399 B.C. Athens, where life for women and their rights are mostly denied. Pandora deeply loathes the fact that she has no say in her life and that on her fourteenth birthday she will have to marry a man she deeply despises, her cousin, Menander, who also happens to be twice her age and very monotone. Her life takes a change though when she meets the Wise One while fetching water. Socrates is a very respected greek scholar and he tells her things that will profoundly change Pandora's life forever. Things seem possible now including marrying Phoenix, Socrates' young disciple, whom Pandora adores. However as Socrate's famed trial begins, Pandora finds herself mingled in the intrigue and politics of Ancient Greece and having to choose between her true love and the stability of someone she doesn't love. I enjoyed this first book in the new series Life and Times. Unfortunately the book should have been a tad longer because the ending came very quickly. It should have been more developed. I'm looking forward to reading the rest of this series as it comes out and I think readers who enjoy girl protagonist and ancient history will enjoy this book very much.  <br /> <br />	2004-11-13
US	43152633	R22H03JOJG6G8P	0786856394	373686323	The Artemis Fowl Files: The Ultimate Guide to the Best-selling Series	Books	3	45	53	N	N	A good collection for Fowl fans	The book which is only about 200 pages is mostly made up of the two shorts stories. One called 'LEPrecon' - The story of Captain Holly Short's move from Traffic to Recon, and how she became the first female officer to serve under Commander Julius Root and the other is called Seventh Dwarf(which I had already read when it was published earlier, just not in the United States). <br /> <br />LEPrecon was somewhat of a disappointment. The villian, who has a very interesting background, turns out to be flat in the end and the story was just lacking the usual Fowl smartness and edginess. The story is pretty much a prequel that explains the beginning of Holly and Root's relationship. The Seventh Dwarf on the other hand was much better. Mulch Diggins returns as he and Artemis plot to steal a diamond off a word famous tiara. They run into some problems with the LEPcron, namely Holly Short, though trying to steal the tiara from a band of circus dwarfs. This story had the usual Fowl flair and the ending was very interesting.  <br /> <br />The rest of the book is composed of various sections that include interviews with the main characters of the series, a fairy code to decode, a gnome alphabet, guides on technology, a very interesting report card of Artemis Fowl's, and some puzzles to solve. I found the interviews most entertaining and the puzzles were okay, though some were quite unchallenging. Overall the book is a good one to fill your time while waiting for Artemis Fowl: Opal Deception.	2004-11-13
US	43152633	RJ45W2ZMPVBPK	0698119746	840582136	I Am Morgan le Fay	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The infamous Morgan in a new light	Everybody knows Morgan le Fay's reputation of being one of the most evil characters in the Arthurian myth and how she tried to ruin Arthur with her every calculated move. Few see Morgan le Fay as what she is depicted as in Nancy Springer's version in which an innocent young girl meets her demise because of the evil actions of those around her. <br /> <br />Morgan le Fay was a normal girl until she saw a man that looked exactly like her father go to bed with her mother Igraine. However, that man was not her father, who had died hours before in battle, but the king, Urther, who lusted after her mother. Soon Uther takes Igraine to be his wife and little Morgan and her older sister Morgause are left to live with nurse Ongwynn. However as the landscape becomes more and more dangerous Morgan and her sister must escape with nurse Ongwynn to her secret home. There Morgan learns her magical powers and falls in love with Thomas, an intriguing young man. Desperate for answers to her life, the young teenage Morgan sets off to find her mother in Avalon. Along the way she faces many trials and her relationship with Thomas deepens. Yet in the end rejection and selfishness leads to Morgan's ultimate demise and her fall into darkness begins.  <br /> <br />Morgan comes off as a very powerful character who you feel sorry for because a lot of things in her life were uncontrollable. The path to her demise is hard to read because the reader wishes every step that Morgan had made a different decision to save herself. The romance between Morgan and Thomas is the shining part of the story and its bittersweet ending is hard to swallow. Besides Morgan and Thomas, other characters were weak, with probably the exception of nurse, who came across as a very motherly figure. Igraine hit a sour note with me. I just didn't really see much in her. The ending was a bit odd but hints at the future of Morgan. The villian in the story was very weak and you feel a bit betrayed in the end with the demise of the romance. In the end Nance Springers version of Morgan was very insightful and will be a hit with all fans of Camelot.	2004-11-05
US	43152633	R1WHHSAOS17NBC	0060012110	477692784	Annie, Between the States	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A nice Civil War novel	The great Civil War has broken out in America and Annie Sinclair is literally caught between the states. She lives in Hickory Heights, a small town in the state of Virginia that is right in the midst of the Union and Confederate army's attacks. Her family is caught up in the battle too. Her old brother Lawrence enlisted in the Confederate army and her younger brother Jamie joined the Gray Ghost, John Mosby. Annie and her mother cannot avoid the war either. Together they tend to the many wounded Confederate soldiers. The experience is very hard on Annie but she takes even more daring roles to help the Confederate cause. Soon she is dubbed Lady Liberty by Lawrence's commanding office Jeb Stuart for her acts to help the Confederate army defeat the Union forces. However Annie's views on the war change when a Union officer is dragged to her farm. Thomas Walker was saved from being hit by a bullet because of his volume of Keat's poetry and soon he and Annie connect because of both's passion for poetry. As tragedy and conflict erupt in Hickory Heights, Annie must question her stance in the war. Which side is really right? Which side is the one she believes in? I am a big fan of L.M. Elliot's Under a War-torn Sky. The book is still one of my all time favorite historical fiction stories. Annie, Between the States was not as good but it is still a worthy addition to my Civil War collection. Annie is a strong protagonist that most girls will connect with. A definite recommendation!	2004-10-30
US	43152633	R3VJU67MRWH0F5	0689855923	208792572	The Wizard's Apprentice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An unexpected twist	Eleven-year-old Princess Arenelle \\"Nell\\", has accomplished what no other girl of Eldearth had ever done, she completed the quest to become the Imperial Wizard, the most important figure in the land who guards Eldearth from the dark evil forces. Nell is overjoyed that she will soon begin the required training to become the Imperial Wizard. However an unexpected twist of events might threaten everything for Nell. When Nell's father, King Einar, discovers that his long lost son, and Nell's twin brother is actrually alive, he denies Nell the right to proceed with her training. The boy instead must become the Imperial Wizard like tradition says. Nell is of course extremely hurt and outraged, even more when she finds out that her twin brother is no other than Owen, the person she used to pose as her at the Witch Academy so that she could complete her quest. Now all seems to be lost just because she is a girl. That is until Owen falls into the hands of the evil forces. Nell once again must prove that she is worthy to become the Imperial Wizard and save the day for her family and Eldearth. <br /> <br />This is a worthy continuation of Nell's story. Nell is a strong girl character that appeals very well with the audience. Girls will very much like to read about her battle against prejudices and how she beats all the odds against her. A definite recommendation.	2004-10-29
US	43152633	R32NTOYWUZIGFJ	0689855931	625791297	The Wizard's Scepter (The Keepers, Book 3)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	The conclusion of Nell's saga	The evil Lord Graieconn and his allegiances of twisted Folk who call him their commander are growing stronger, while the current Imperial Wizard, the keeper of the Scepter of Light, continues to grow weaker. All of Eldearth is worried that their peaceful days are over. Eleven-year-old Princess Arnelle \\"Nell\\" who has overcome an extremely difficult task to be the next Imperial Wizard, must use all her intelligence and wit to stop the forces of the Dark Lord from extinguishing the Scepter of Light, which has always protected Eldearth from Graieconn. However soon Nell comes to the realization that she cannot do it alone. She must have the help of her twin brother Owen, her competitor for the title of Imperial Wizard. Can Nell and Owen work together to stop the dark forces? Will the two be strong enough? <br /> <br />This was a good conclustion to the Keeper's Trilogy. This wasn't my favorite fantasy trilogy but did have a very headstrong heroine that will connect with many young girls. Though this series is reminiscient of other books I have read, it does have its own uniqueness in some areas. Its a good book to read for leisure. A definite recommendation.	2004-10-29
US	43152633	RLK5L8YXTXSL3	0689855915	350761390	A Wizard Named Nell (The Keepers, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A journey into Eldearth	Eldearth is a land shared by wizards, witches, humans, and all kinds of magical creatures, but all of this is about to be threatned. The Imperial Wizard, The Keeper of the Light, is dying and if someone new is not found soon, Eldearth will fall into darkness and the evil hands of Lord Graieconn. The tradition has always been that the Imperial Wizard is a wizard, a boy, but time is running out and all the boys who have attempted the extremely difficult quest to become Imperial Wizard have failed. It looks like a different tactic must now be used before time is too late. <br /> <br />Eleven-year-old Princess Arenelle, \\"Nell\\", daughter of King Einar, has always shown promise in witchcraft and wants to undertake the difficult quest. Of course her father forbids it mostly because she is a girl and fearing for her overall safety. Nell, being the cunning intelligent girl she is, comes up with a plan to evade her father and sets out on her quest. Along the way she meets many of the people and creatures of Eldearth and sees their many trials. She gains some wisdom and through her kindness to the people Nell shows her true colors. Soon she has an albino dragon, whom she saved from death, and folk helping her on her quest. Can she prove herself worthy to be the Imperial Wizard? <br /> <br />I have always enjoyed the magic of fantasy and this book was no exception. I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy. However some parts of this book were quite reminiscent of other books I've read in the past. This is not the first time I've heard of something called the Keeper of the Light. I think that was also part of the Rowan books by Emily Rodda. However Koller manages to give her own spin to these books and Nell is a true heroine. A definite recommendation.	2004-10-28
US	43152633	R20OHCEHYGKYCJ	0689861753	762887058	Bound	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Bound to a life of service	Fourteen-year-old Xing Xing lives in ancient China and her life is literally \\"bound\\". Bound by the old traditions of China where she must become the servant of her stepmother after her father's death. Bound by the injustice and ill treatment of women. Bound to remain a servant the rest of her life and be neglected by society. Bound to never find a husband because she has no parents to arrange her a suitable marriage. Xing Xing spends her days being a slave girl to her half-sister Wei Ping who is also bound, but in a different way. Wei Ping has her feet cruelly bound to make them small, a tradition in China, that symbolizes wealth and elegantness, a painful compulsory act if a girl is going to marry into the high society. Xing Xing however does not complain about her role in the family and secretly feeds her passion of and gift of poetry and calligraphy. She secretly dreams of a different life of freedom, a life that seems so far away, that is until the village has its annual festival, a big celebration in which Xing Xing's stepmother hopes to find a husband for Wei Ping. Things are going to change however and greed in the end might threaten all that Xing Xing has built up for herself. <br /> <br />I am a Chinese-American and I really did feel this book lived up to my expectations and the Chinese Cinderella myth that is was based on. Life in Ancient China was not easy for women and the bound feet was something that my great-great-grandma had to go through too and it was a terrible experience for her. I have become a fan of Donna Jo Napoli after her book Daughter of Venice and Bound lived up to everything I'd hoped for. A definite recommendation!	2004-10-25
US	43152633	R2KHQN13JNCSOO	0316909688	680713352	Gossip Girl: Because I'm Worth It	Books	4	12	13	N	N	The fourth installment of guilty pleasure	In the fourth installment of Gossip Girl things are about to drastically change. These rich, beautiful, wild life Upper EastSide New York kids are still up to their backstabbling, malicious ways but this time life is gonna throw them some curveballs.<br /><br />Blair is still waiting to see if she'll be accepted by Yale but after the whole interview mess and accidental affair with an older man things don't look so great, but meanwhile her obsession with ex-boyfriend Nate continues, though she is finding new avenues in her life, including letting go of her major Audrey Hepburn obssesion. Yeah, bet we expected that. Nate himself is turning over a new leaf after getting busted for drugs. He is sent to counseling where he saves a girl who overdoses. A drugged Snow White beauty would be a nice way to describe her and it looks like Nate's romantic status is headed in a different direction.<br /><br />More emphasis is put into Dan and Vannessa's relationship, and less on Serena, though I find her increasingly annoying. Dan, the romantic poet gets his poem published in the New Yorker somewhat by accident and then meets a yellow toothed lady whom he goes off and has an affair with. Call that messed up!<br /><br />Serena and Aaron are finally an item, but who knows how long that will last knowing Serena...Jen is moving on to a new man since Dan no longer seems to have time for her...Things are changing and the scandals/soap opera is getting weirder by the minute but the biggest question is still: Who is Gossip Girl? Could it be someone we least expect??? A definite must read though not as good as the previous few. Some storylines were a bit dull but still not one to miss:) Probably not your mother's favorite cup of tea but who can resist some guilty pleasure?	2004-10-19
US	43152633	R161O1PZEEYLO1	0316912123	990953000	All I Want Is Everything (Gossip Girl, 3)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A third round of gossip	Gossip Girl is back in its 3rd installment and the gossip is hotter than ever. Its Christmas time in the prestigious Upper East Side of New York and that means midterms, presents, breakup and get togethers, and college essays. <br /> <br />Serena and Blair are friends again, and back to their old tricks and scandals. Partie, limo rides with celebrities, and jetting off to the island of St. Barts for Christmas vacation with a bunch of friends are just some of the antics Blair and Serena are up to so they can blow off some steam after midterms. On the wild beaches of St. Barts theres plenty of scandal and backstabbing as Blair flirts with her stepbrother Aaron's drummer friend Miles while Aaron is trying to suppress his feeling for Blair himself. Meanwhile Blair is still trying to write her Yale essay, based on who else but her idol Audrey Hepburn, even though she knows she been putting it off for way too long. After a botched Yale interview, the essay is extremely important if she wants a ticket to Yale. <br /> <br />The sophisticated Serena has got problems on her hands too, trying to fend off the affections of Flow,the sexy lead singer of the band Komunik8, whose got every girl at Constance Billard School drooling over him. When everyone returns to New York from St. Barts to attend Serena's party, things heat up between Blair and her ex-boyfriend Nate and his new girlfriend Jenny, whose only 14, but has got totally huge attributes in the chest area. Then theres Danny, Jenny's big brother, the romantic poet whose still trying to sort out with Vanessa the should we do it or not issue in their relationship. <br /> <br />All and all the 3rd book in the series was another worthy installment of guilty pleasure but I though the previous 2 were better. The plot lines were a bit choppy and not that intricately connected like the previous two. The characters have many new developments and the identity of Gossip Girl is becoming more interesting. A fan scandalous read that Idefinitely recommend.  <br /> <br />	2004-10-17
US	43152633	RNDO6NIXF8QHI	0316910333	680713352	Gossip Girl #1: A Novel (Gossip Girl Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A bit on the wild side..but with unusual flair	The enigmatic \\"gossip girl\\" describes the life at a particular prestigious New York Upper EastSide Highschool, where the students are rich, nasty, spoiled, partying animals, who are all headed to Ivy League Colleges, but meanwhile are out for some fun in high school. Not only do they get drunk at their parent's parties, but each are backstabbing friends, and cheating on another. They might all live in huge apartments, have shining cars, and wear expensive brands, but each is insecure about life and themselves.  <br /> <br />First there is Blair and her hot boyfriend Nate. Blair been really insecure lately since her former best friend Serena van der Woodsen, just expelled from boarding school overseas, is back and Nate, and the whole male population, can't seem to take their eyes off Serena. Blair once again is becoming the sidekick, one of Serena's friends, out of the school's mainstream limelight. But Blair is going to fight back at Serena this time with all shes got. <br /> <br />Serena doesn't understand why every girl, especially Blair, is suddenly becoming so cold to her and spreading nasty rumors about her. However Serena has other problems to deal with. She has fallen terribly behind and if she doesn't pick herself up, Yale or Harvard is never going to accept her. So Serena decides to join the school play and unexpectantly the lead male actor is extremely cute, but unpopular. Throw in the fact that the director has a crush on the male actor and things are heating up. <br /> <br />Drink, eating disorders, insecurity, drug use, and profanity are just many parts of Gossip Girl that might make your parents have a heartattack, but the book itself is really wonderful and delicously full of gossip. I literally could not put this book or any of the other books in this series down. A definite must for any teenage girl!	2004-10-16
US	43152633	R3TXXIQ2M4L8GC	0316911488	778462508	You Know You Love Me: A Gossip Girl Novel	Books	4	7	10	N	N	More gossip	In Gossip Girl's second installment, Blair Waldorf and the rest of the Manhattan prep school kids are back in what was another round of great, whatelse, gossip! <br /> <br />Blair's seventeenth birthday is fast approaching and there is nothing else that she wants more than her hottie boyfriend Nate's full fledged attention. But birthday's aren't the only thing on Blair's mind. Blair has an interview at Yale coming up and her mother is getting married again, after a 2 month courtship, to Cyrus Rose, a man of the high society, who just happens to have a hot son named Aaron, a hippie. Worst of all, Blair's mom has chosen Blair's former best friend Serena as bridsmaid instead of Blair and of course such a big occasion must also catch the attention of Vogue, the magazine, who will be taking pictures at the wedding.  <br /> <br />Then there is Nate himself. Blairs been so busy with all the wedding and college applications that shes been too busy to see that Nate isn't exactly hers anymore. He has been secretly dating Jenny Humphrey, a ninth-grader, whose got some pretty good attributes in the chest area. Jenny's brother Danny, the romantic poet, is still swooning over Serena, whose busy with her interview with Brown.  <br /> <br />Bad languague, inapprapriate situations, makes Gossip Girl appropriate for only mature readers but once you get into them, you really can't put it down. The storylines are enticing and the scandals are just pure fun. The characters are great and there is never a dull moment. A definite must read if you want to catch up on some \\"gossip\\".  <br />	2004-10-16
US	43152633	R3B4GZXMAGTHL6	0689866585	58381314	1: The Fallen (Nine Lives of Chloe King)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Life one	Sixteen-year-old Chloe King was a very normal teen girl. She kept up well in her classes, except for some occasional mischief, and generally had some issues with her mother(You know the whole teen girl and mother conflict thingy we all experience). However Chloe's life is about to change forever. The day before her sweet sixteen, Chloe and her two best friends Amy and Paul decided to ditch school so they can visit San Francisco's Coit Tower, the highest tower in the city. In a split second Chloe's life changes when she falls from the tower and hits her head, except defying all odds, she isn't dead, she lives to tell about it. Surviving such a fall is impossible for a human and Chloe soon begins to develop unusual powers. When her two best friends begin dating, Chloe feels left out and begins to have an assortment of relationships with young men who seem really interested in her, to the point of prowling. That not all of Chloe's problems, she's growing claws, ones that a cat might possess and to top it off, someone is trying to kill her, or maybe a secret organization. Can Chloe's other eight lives save her from death? <br /> <br />I first came to know of this series from an excerpt of the book in Francine Pascal's Fearless series. Like the Fearless series, Celia Thompson develops a character who has supernatural powers and has someone after them. A good read for fans of teen fiction for sure, but the book has its weak points. However, I can't wait to read the next one.	2004-10-14
US	43152633	RZUYMUZ3KNQMZ	0439661579	964262655	The Secrets of Droon #23: The Fortress of the Treasure Queen	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another topsy-turvy adventure into Droon	The trio of best friends Eric, Neal, and Julie once again have another situation to contend with in the magical world of Droon. Ko is unfortunately back, and this time him and his beasts have a new trick up their sleeves. They've discoved a lightning powered submarine with some extreme powers in the fortress of the treasure queen. With his new machine, Ko will stop at nothing to topple Jaffa City and Droon. Once again it'll be up to the trio and Princess Keeah to save the day, but this time their allie could be their worst enemy, the one and only Lord Sparr....<br /><br />I have been reading the Droon series since it first started. Back then I was in 5th grade. The still can hold my attention even now 5 years later. I recommend parents of young children to definitely let their kids read this series. Its a great way for children to start on chapter books and the pictures can keep your child's attention.	2004-10-11
US	43152633	R1RYLBS6LQUXPA	0439560489	682516707	The Secrets of Droon #22: The Isle of Mists	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of my favorites so far	Lord Sparr has finally done it. He finally collected the Three Powers of Droon, the Coiled Viper, the Red Eye of Dawn, and the Golden Wasp. Droon could not be in a worse situation. With the Three Powers, Lord Sparr is headed toward the Isle of Mists, a strange eerie island where he is trying to do a magic trick which will spell doom for all of Droon. Not to mention the fact that Sparr's evil stepfather Emperor Ko, who disappeared on the Isle of Mists, could still be alive and well on this island. This spells big trouble for Eric and the gang. Can they somehow outmuster Lord Sparr and save Droon? <br /> <br />This was one of my favorites in the series. Definitely quite entertaining with a few revelations. I definitely recommend parent to get their young children into this series. Its a great hook for young children and I agree a step up from The Magic Treehouse series.	2004-10-11
US	43152633	R14Q1S0EKL3NZL	0689873328	936654542	The Ruling Class	Books	4	5	13	N	N	Another enjoyable teen book	Every school has one, that one clique that everybody envies and wants to be a part of because of its \\"popularity\\". In the rich upperclass suburban neighborhood of Highland Park the rules are no different. Jeanette Sue, the beautiful heartstopping girl is the \\"queen\\" of the Dallas High School, and head of \\"The Ruling Class\\" a stuck up clique comprised of vicious girls that makes everybody else's life at the school miserable. They are cruel and brutal and nobody have better get in their way, adult or fellow student. Some girls, such as Myrna Fry makes it their life's goal to become part of the group so that they no longer get picked on and can start wreaking havoc. The school is truly a total nightmare until the arrival of the unfashional, and worst of all unwealthy poor girl Twyla Gay Stark. The school is about to tilt on its own axis when Jeanette's \\"man\\", or as she would like to put it her property, Ryder begins to have a relationship with the new gal. Uh oh.... <br /> <br />I am a fan of Francine Pascal's Fearless series and was really eager to read this book. I found it to be another very enjoyable teen book. The girls at times were a bit overly vicious but I bet many people can find similaries between Highland Park and their high school. You do feel for these girls, even Jeanette Sue. A definite recommendation.	2004-10-10
US	43152633	R13NZ0JBJE9FOT	0439409713	518053192	Lady of Palenque: Flower of Bacal, Mesoamerica, A.D. 749 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Okay story, confusing names	ShahnaK'in Yaxchel Pacal, \\"Princess Green Jay on the Wall,\\" is 13 years old and her father King Hanaab Pacal of Lakamha, modern day Palenque, has just betrothed her to K'ak Yipyaj Chan K'awil, \\"King Fire Keeper, the King of allie Xukpi. When the diary begins, Green Jay is preparing to make the long journey to Xukpi to meet the husband she has never met. Green Jay is sad because she knows that the long journey from Lakamha to Xukpi will likely mean that she will never return home. Her journey will be a treachrous one, as 749 Mesoamerica is not a peaceful time in Mayan history. Neighboring tribes are not on good terms with Lakamha and anything can happen. First her entourage of guardians and soldiers travel to Mutal, a allie of Lakahma where they rest for a few days. We get to see glimpses of the Mayan culture through their celebration. As the journey brings her more closer to Xukpi, Green Jay's anticipation of what her husband is like grows until the moment they finally meet. <br /> <br />This book is not as bad as some of the review here have portrayed it to be. I found it to have an okay storyline, though my interest did wane at some points and I had a hard time finishing the book. The names were quite hard to keep straight since they were so long and complicated. I had to check back to the glossory every few seconds to remind myself of who is who. I do believe this is the weakest Royal Diary so far but if you have some extra time on a boring day, this book might not be a bad read.	2004-10-05
US	43152633	R2LPO1UE0W9EFA	0439221617	723481022	Hear My Sorrow: The Diary of Angela Denoto, a Shirtwaist Worker, New York City 1909 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A powerful look into the past	1909 is a time of bustling activity and change in New York City. For fourteen-year-old Angela Denoto, an Italian immigrant, things are changing too. Her family is extremely poor and live in a tenement building in the Lower East Side. When her father loses his job, Angela must stop school, something she desperatly wants to do, and goes to work in a shirtwaist factory to support her family. Angela begins to record her secret desires of school in her diary, given to her from her teacher. Conditions in the factories are very poor and the long hours cripple many of the girls. However, change is on the way. Labor unions are popping up all over New York City, and soon Angela and other workers strike to protest the wages and conditions. Even though the strike doesn't work, Angela knows the the labor unions have proven that they are a force to be reckoned with. Unfortunately sorrow soon follows as Angela records the loss of family and friends along with the terrible tragedy of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire where her sister works.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed this diary very much. It was probably one of the saddest Dear Americas out there but it really accurately described the situations in the factories. I recommend fans of Dear America to read this book.	2004-09-22
US	43152633	RKRZWK33E1EWY	0439164850	850362056	Kazunomiya: Prisoner of Heaven, Japan 1858 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A nice story about an era of change	12-year-old Princess Kazunomiya, the half-sister of the current emperor of Japan, lives a very common life of a person of royal lineage. She has luxery and respect, but shes not much more than a prisoner behind the palace walls. She is never allowed to leave, unless for official state events or to pray in the temple. Her life is generally very monotonous and everyday is similar to the next. However Kazunomiya is living in a time of great change for her country of Japan, a time in which her own life will also be affected by the changes of the political landscape. Japan is becoming more open to foreigners and many are flocking in eager to trade and make money. Different alliances are being made and soon Kazunomiya finds her future in question because of political calculations.  <br /> <br />Kazunomiya comes off as a likeable character. Her confusion over the circumstances of her country are understandable. I'm Asian American so I was really looking forward to reading morea about the Japanese culture. I recommend this book to all fans of the series.	2004-09-22
US	43152633	R3BXY8LQZPD0X2	0439249732	91582866	I Walk in Dread: The Diary of Deliverance Trembly, Witness to the Salem Witch Trials, Massachusetts Bay Colony 1691 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	The infamous Salem	Twelve-year-old Deliverance Trembley lives on a farm in a regular town called Salem Village in the state of Massachusettes. The year is 1691 and Deliverance is living alone with her sister Mem, a sicky seventeen-year-old. Their cruel uncle has left them to fend for themselves, even though he is suppose to be taking care of them since Deliverance's parents are dead and her brother is gone in the military. Deliverance worries constantly that the neighbors will be suspicious that her uncle is not home. However soon her worries are not that simple anymore. The landscape in Salem is changing and the events to follow will change the town forever. When some girls in Salem Village come down with a weird illness, some young girls beginning accusing other townspeople of witchcraft. Soon even Deliverance's friend Goody is accused. Deliverance beings to feel that something must be up and innocent people are being accused. Will this mass panic ever come to an end. <br /> <br />I was really looking forward to the Dear America book on the Salem Witch Trials. I have always been a big fan of the stories of that period. Everybody knows about the Salem Witch Trials. Granted, myths have popped up everywhere about it. If you enjoyed this diary, I recommend you reading Celia Ree's Witch Child, another book about witch hunting. The sequel to that book is also a nice read.	2004-09-22
US	43152633	R3LFAP8ZM3RMOK	0060754338	905642249	The Princess Present: A Princess Diaries Book (Princess Diaries, Vol. 6 1/2)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A nice cozy Christmas story	Princess Mia is in Genovia for the Christmas holidays and she couldn't be more exited. Her boyfriend Micheal and his sister Lily, who also happens to be Mia's best friend, are in Genovia for the first time. Mia couldn't be me happy that she will be able to show them the country she will one day rule. She also has the perfect Christmas present for Micheal to enjoy and she can't wait for him to see it. Unfortunately things start going wrong before too long. Lily's attitude and her ways start causing problems immediately and soon all different kinds of situations start popping up. Mia begins to wonder if her perfect Christmas is set to be ruined. Can she make it all better again. <br /> <br />I am a big fan of the Princess Diaries series and I enjoy reading the little books that Cabot adds to the series. In my opinion this was probably the best one out of all of the little stories. Its defintely a nice holiday read for all fans of Princess Diaries. Definitely recommend it:)	2004-09-21
US	43152633	R1G5A5YPB9SCLQ	0439210380	139510473	Look to the Hills: The Diary of Lozette Moreau, a French Slave Girl, New York Colony 1763 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A nice novel	After starting high school, I started taking French as a foreign language so I was really looking forward to reading this book and learning more about the French culture. The book didn't disappoint me. 12-year-old Lorzette Moreau \\"Zettie\\" is a companion, a better world for a slave in the upper class French society. Her mistress, Marie Moreau \\"Rae\\" is set to be married to a man she does not love so that Maries brother Pierre can pay off his debts. Zettie is also set to be sold off. When Zettie begins the diary she is locked in a room waiting for the day she will be sold and never see her mistress again. Little does she know that Rae has a plan for escape. After a daring escape, Zettie and Rae, with the help of friends, find themselves at the Ortega's house, Rae's godparents. There, they learn that Jacques, Rae's older brother, presumed dead from the war between France and England, may be alive and well as a captive in the Colonies, America. So, soon Zettie finds herself setting foot in a new land. However, Zettie finds that the way Americans treat slaves are no differnt than in France. Even though Rae is very nice to her, Zettie still isn't Rae's equal. Zettie yearns for freedom and she soon begins to learn that she might be able to use her skills to do just that. Will Zettie be able to look to the other side of the hills, freedom? <br /> <br />I definitely enjoyed this book. It had a new perspective on the slave, one that was refreshing and different. I recommend all readers of Dear America to read this book.	2004-09-21
US	43152633	R2TRE0W5EDDN5H	0689869177	52589838	Fake (Fearless #34)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Finally a little fresh development	After the last book, I was really down. Fearless just wasn't what it used to be. Granted it still isn't, but this one was at least better than the previous few. We finally get some new plot developments in every area: <br /> <br />Loki has officially returned. This time he is using Jake as his operative and things don't look too good. If Jake doesn't start doing things right and getting information, Loki might just do to Jake what he does to every operative that fails. <br /> <br />Gaia doesn't understand why she is so attracted to Skyler but she is. He seems to always know how to comfort her and with him her fear isn't that bad. Gaia totally erupts in anger when Jake tries to accuse Skyler of using Gaia and plotting against her. How could Jake suggest those things? Things are definitely changing in their relationship but that not the only big surprise. By accident Gaia realizes something: Her fearlessness has come back.(I was so glad with this development. Gaia with fear just isn't Gaia:) <br /> <br />Skyler thinks he has got all the cards. Gaia seems totally reliant on him and for once he seems to be God. Can he keep it up? <br /> <br />Sam and Heather once again are non-existent. The FOHs are still plotting to split Gaia and Jake, though they might not have to anymore since Gaia and Jake seem to have already broken themselves up. Ed is going with Kai to the prom, though he can't stop worrying about Gaia. <br /> <br />The last few chapters of the book were great. We finally get the old Gaia back!! The first few chapter, I could have done without. Hopefully the next book will be even better. Only 3 more left to go. I'm exited!	2004-09-18
US	43152633	R1W2D6FSHMAXZ3	0689869169	223029128	Wired (Fearless #33)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Filler	I never thought that I would be glad that the Fearless series would come to an end but I am now. The last few books have been totally boring, and the plot lines are just twisted versions of former ones. WIRED is pretty much a continuation of TERROR and gives little plot movement. <br /> <br />Gaia is still feeling fear. Not only is she worrying about the prom, but she wants very badly to fit in with the FOHs. Unfortunately the FOHs don't have Gaia's best interests in mind. They are hatching up a plan to get back at Gaia, who got invited to Liz Rodke's party instead of them..their target: Jake of course. Speaking of Jake, he and Gaia are still having problems. Jake doesn't understand why Gaias changed and Gaia doesn't seem to understand why Jake trusts Oliver so much. Their little romance is totally going downhill. <br /> <br />The Rodkes have a more intense role in this book. We begin to find out their real motives and the oldest, Skyler, is making Gaia feel all different inside. Could this be the start of something?  <br /> <br />It seems Francine has totally forgotten about half of the old characters. Sam and Heather have been axed. They are totally non-existent and probably will not return for the rest of the series considering the storyline. Ed doesn't get many pages either and his deadlocked relationship with Kai is a boring read.  <br /> <br />Very glad that Fearless is finally winding down. After 6 years we deserve to know what happens to Gaia. Unfortunately we should have known a long time ago.	2004-09-18
US	43152633	R2UAZKZTQQLU36	043942089X	708788000	The Thief Lord	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An ending out of the blue	After the death of their mother, Prosper and his younger brother Bo, are set to be separated. Their aunt Esther only wants to adopt five-year-old Bo and send twelve-year-old Prosper to some far away boarding school where he would probably only get to see Bo once a year. Not wanting to separate the two boys escape to Venice, a city their mother told them had magical lions and great canals. At first life in Venice is hard, but after they meet a young girl named Hornet who introduces them to an orphange life gets much better. However Prosper feels uneasy since the orphange is funded by Scripio, known as The Thief Lord. Meanwhile, Aunt Esther has not given up on finding the two boys, as she has now hired the city's top detective Victor Getz to track them down. After a series of events, Victor discovers their hiding place and many more surprising turns finally bring to light the true identity of The Thief Lord.<br />The Thief Lord is definitely a very enjoyable read. Unfornately a book that was suppose to be realistic was made into a part fantasy ending which didn't fit the book at all. Nothing in the whole booked suggested fantasy as being part of the book and the ending came totally out of the blue. If you get past the ending though you'll definitely enjoy this book that has is like a 21st century Dicken's novel.	2004-07-14
US	43152633	R3VMVMCSJQO8KT	0439436559	677996251	Grim Tuesday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A very grim Tuesday	Arthur left The House on Monday thinking he wouldn't have to go back for another five to six years. Boy was he wrong. It turns out that Grim Tuesday, who is in charge of the Far Reaches, has some different ideas of his own and is threatning Arthur's position of the Head of the Lower Atruim. Not only is the Grim stirring up chaos in the House, but in Arthur's world too. The Grim's Grotesques, his seven ugly, mishapen servants, are up to no good and Arthur's family is on the verge of a financial crisis. So once again Arthur must return to The House and retrieve the Second Key from Grim Tuesday to save everybody. Soon he finds himself a worker in the Grim's Pit and befriends Japeth, a Denizen that talks like a thesaurous. Of course Suzy is also there to help, after being sent by the Will to assist Arthur. Soon Suzy and Arthur find themselves battling Nithilings, stealing a Sunship, harpooing sunsprites, and trying to knock some senses into the Second Clause of the Will, which is in a bear form. Of course everything leads to the final showdown with the Grim, but unlike Monday, this won't be a contest of strength and swords, but creativity. <br />The second book in this series was a definite improvement over the first one. Japeth provided some much needed comic relief and Soot was just funny. I also loved Tom, and I definitely hope he returns again. Oh, and the bear was a definite improvement over the previous Clause of the Will. Overall much better than the first one. I can't wait to read Drowned Wednesday and meet Lady Wednesday! (yeah a woman!)	2004-05-24
US	43152633	RUPEPLVUKHHD7	0439551234	361348146	Mister Monday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The beginning, Monday	Its Arthur Penhaglion's first day at school and things aren't going so well. Arthur has really bad asthma, but since the new gym teacher doesn't know it, Arthur is forced to run. He doesn't want to appear stupid on the first day of school, so he decides to run even though he knows it could be really devasting to his health. And lone behold, Arthur has a severe asthma attack. However, just as he is about to die, he is handed a key shaped like a minute hand from a mysterious person called Mr. Monday who definitely doesn't belong in our world. Arthur survives, but soon his whole world is turned upside down. Mysterious dog faced animals are chasing after Arthur trying to get back the key, and they've brought a mysterious Sleeping Plague with them that could kill thousands, if not millions, since the doctors seem to have no cure at all. Soon Arthur realizes, that he, himself will have to venture into \\"The House\\", a house that only he can see, to save his world from utter destruction. It is in \\"The House\\" that Arthur makes friends with Suzy Turquoise Blue, and learns from \\"The Will\\" of his true destiny and has his final showdown with Mr. Monday. <br />I had high expectations for Garth Nix's new series since I was an absolute fanatic over his Sabriel Trilogy and The Seventh Towers Series. After reading the first chapter of this book, I knew that I wouldn't be disappointed as it just sucks you in. I found this book to be more darker than Garth Nix's past stories, but you can definitely tell his unique writing style. His story structure carries over and you can pinpoint many similarties with this book and his other works. Arthur is a great protagonist, though he lacks the charm of Sabriel and Tal from Garth Nix's previous books. I definitely recommend reading this book, though I feel it is a touch lower than Garth Nix's Sabriel and Seventh Tower.	2004-05-24
US	43152633	R1MSAUP4VH39HB	0060096101	587245282	Princess in Pink (Princess Diaries, Vol. 5)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Vastly improved from 4 but still lacking	Yes, I admit, after book #4, I had my doubts if Meg Cabot could ever write another Princess Diaries book as good as the first three. But boy was I wrong...<br />We catch up with Mia almost at the end of the school year. Of course things are now definitely clicking better than the beginning of the year. She is going to become a big sister and has just gotten a job on the newspaper \\"The Atom\\", even if it is the lowly position of reporting the school's lunch menu for the week. (Just as a side note : I loved the issues of \\"The Atom\\" in this book! Wish there had been more. They were so light-hearted and fun to read). But the best thing of all is that she has the world's greatest boyfriend, the love of her life, Micheal and it is Mia's dream of a lifetime to go the the school Prom with Micheal and spend an evening with him and hopefully getting to \\"second base\\". Unfortuntely things go all wrong before they do right. A diaster at Mia's 15th birthday party has caused the whole city's busboys to go on strike and now both Grandmere and Lily are in a deadlocked battle against eachother because of it. If things don't get settled soon, there might be no prom at all. But most importanty, the BIGGEST problem is that Micheal thinks the Prom is LAME!!! LAME!! Can Mia work some magic so her dream comes true? Or will she have to spend all her life regretting that she never went to the Prom with her love?<br />Okay, okay, enough with telling what happens. Now onto my opinion of the book. Like always, Mia made me laugh with all the idiot things she keeps coming up with. Being the same age as Mia herself, I can relate to some of those lame teen things everybody goes through. But my favorite part was when Mia thought she had Asperger's syndrome. So why didn't I give this book 5 stars? Because Mia obsessed way too much about the prom! Every other thought of hers was HOW AM I GOING TO GO TO THE PROM or WHY HASN'T MICHEAL ASKED ME TO THE PROM. Way too repetetive. Besides that, this book wasa vast improvement over #4, and I can say that Mia is officially back, bright and bubbly.	2004-05-02
US	43152633	R2R7LY5UTCOHJ4	0689867077	151886831	Terror (Fearless #32)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A new Gaia	After 17 years Gaia Moore is finally feeling fear after receiving gene therapy from Dr. Ulrich. This new Gaia screams at a cockroach, is afraid of a Doberman, is constantly paranoid of herself, and is wanting to \\"fit in\\". For the first time we see Gaia caring about her appearance and come on, it just has to be hilarious to read about a \\"blond Gaia\\" and her episode with shaving. But this new Gaia hasn't all been good. Her newfound paranoia and jealousy has caused rifts with her relationships with Jake. Plus I think this whole fear thing has clogged Gaia's judgment. How could she avoid all those warnings from Oliver? <br />Jake isn't sure if he likes this new Gaia or not. For one he fell in love with her because of her independence and toughness. The good thing is they finally had their conversation, but Gaia is reminding him more and more like a vulnerable girl, and Jake isn't too keen on dating more girls like that. <br />Ed is still recovering in the hospital. This is the one part of the book that I think Francine did not give enough justice to. When was the last time Ed was only mention in one chapter of the book? And yes, I am still an Ed and Gaia believer. <br />The FOHs are back to their plotting selves again, and this time their target is Gaia. There must be something special about her since she seems to snag all the hot guys!<br />Not much new plots happened in this book. Pretty much a continuation of 31. The ending was a semi-cliffhanger that makes you want to read the next book desperately. As for my opinions of this new Gaia, I dunno. The reason I loved Gaia was because of her kick-ass attitude. This new girl is a bit scary at times but maybe I'm just getting used to her.	2004-04-28
US	43152633	R82JQJMZB5A3R	0375762183	29140938	Word Smart: Building an Educated Vocabulary	Books	4	20	21	N	N	A good source of must-know words	As always Word Smart is a great way to study for the SAT, GRE, and standardized tests. These 800+ words not only help you do good on standardized tests but also enrich your vocabulary for everyday conversations. I especially found the pronunciation keys for every word very useful. It doesn't really make you look very smart if you mispronounce a word does it? I found it really funny that books never gave you pronunciations and was so pleased when I finally saw them in Word Smart. The sentence examples are also a great way to learn how to use these words and Adam's humor definitely shows up in some of them:) The word root list and GRE hit parade were also very helpful.<br />I recently got a score of 700 on my verbal section of the SATs. A large part of the reason was Word Smart. The only reason I did not give it 5 stars was because I feel that you need to also purchase Word Smart II to get all the words that you absolutely need to know for the SATs. There are also some words in this book that are way too easy. Come on, ironic? Who doesn't know what that means. Otherwise this book is a must-buy for anyone taking the SATs.	2004-04-22
US	43152633	RU30G7AAUB150	0152165444	384056423	Patience, Princess Catherine: A Young Royals Book	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another great young royals book	In the 4th book of Carolyn Meyer's Young Royals series, we meet another one of the Tudor women, Catherine of Aragorn, Henry VII's first wife out of six. It is 1501, and young Catherine of Spain is betrothed to Arthur, the heir to England's throne. She begins by writing of a her journey to England. What was to be a great union of two powers was not to be as Catherine describes her utter loneliness in the English court. Arthur is very sickly and unable to perform the duties of a husband to Catherine. Six mothes after marriage, Arthur dies, and Catherine's fate is thrown up in the air as Spain and England dispute the outcome. There are rumors that she will return to Spain, and also rumors that she will marry Henry. Catherine's life is thrown into chaos for the next 7 years, and she lives through a time of poverty while the two kingdoms fight over her drowry. Through it all Catherine is determined to become Queen of England one day. During this time she comes into acquaintence with Henry, Arthur's younger brother. Catherine takes a liking to Henry and in the end, she does marry Henry and become England's Queen, though quickly the happiness fades. This was another wonderful book in the Young Royals series. Catherine painted a very vivid image of her life in the English court and her feelings toward Arthur and Henry. Fans should definitely also read Mary, Bloody Mary, about Catherine's daughter, and Doomed Queen Anne, about Anne Boleyn, the woman who ultimately stole Henry's heart from Catherine.	2004-04-22
US	43152633	R2MBRT33K3PUAS	0060526793	931221614	Perfect Princess (Princess Diaries Guidebook)	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Charming and Witty	Me being the HUGE Princess Diaries fan, loved this new book in which Mia introduces you to the many princess of the world and teaches the concepts on how to become a perfect princess. From how to eat, talk, stand, make an incredible entrance, or how to wear a tiara, Mia creates another funny page-turner with these hiliarious questions of what makes a perfect princess. From old princesses, young princesses, real princesses, to fiction princesses, Mia analyzes how each exhibits the sings of a true princess. My favorite had to be WuZeTian(I'm Asian and Chinese). Couldn't believe she was in there. Mia just about covered every princess I could ever think about.<br />Like Princess Lessons this book should probably only be read by true Princess Diaries fans.(I did find it slightly better than Princess Lessons) I really enjoyed it, though I could tell if someone would find it kinda boring if they weren't a true fan. You don't have to read this book to get the series since nothing is connected. It is just a fun book for those of us who dream of becoming princesses one day.	2004-04-14
US	43152633	R2FUAU96PRPHRL	0060507241	301732096	Chu Ju's House	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another classic Gloria Whelan book	14-year-old Chu Ju lives in a rural Chinese village where according to culture boys are far more valued than girls. Her mother is pregnant again and the whole family prays for a son, because they know the strict rules of 2 children per family would not permit them to have another child if the baby turned out to be a girl. Unfortunately, Chu Ju's new sibling turns out to be another girl. Chu Ju's grandmother is very bitter at the result and convinces the family to put the girl up for adoption and hopefully have another child that will be a boy. Chu Ju is devastated when she hears of her family's plan and she decides to run away so her baby sister will not have to suffer. Little does Chu Ju know how important this journey will be to her life and self-realization. Told over several years, Chu Ju's journey brings her many hardships, but joy as well. She goes from village to village finding an assortment of jobs, such as working on a silkfarm, a fishing boat, and working in the rice paddies. In the end, Chu Ju realizes she made the right decision and you know she will be happy since she has found her true love and a family that accepts her for who she is and not her gender.<br />Being a 2nd-generation Asian-American this book hit very close to home. Unfortunately this type of gender discrimination is very common in many of China's rural villages which still go by old customs and have not been educated in the new modern ways. This topic was probably very tough to write on, but I think Gloria Whelan did a great job touching on both sides of the issue. Like Homeless Bird, she has created another great story of a girl who had courage to face the odds.	2004-04-13
US	43152633	RWDHTWRMA44BQ	0439370469	488427528	My America: An American Spring, Sofia's Immigrant Diary (Book 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good conclusion to Sofia's story	It is 1903 and 10-year-old Sofia is finally getting used to life in the United States. Things are looking up now that her best friend Maureen, whom she met in quarantine, has come to live with their family on the north end of Boston. The two share many adventures as both are in the 5th grade. They have many new experiences including celebrating the various \\"new\\" American holidays. The future looks bright for Sofia as her parents are finally able to open their own grocery store. This was another good book in the My America series and a fitting conclusion to Sofia's story.	2004-04-13
US	43152633	R1TNG20YZL1FEO	0439129109	563107528	Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets, Massachusetts - Rhode Island, 1653 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good edition to the Royal Diaries series	After a tremendous wait, I have finally been able to read, Weetamoo: Heart of the Pocassets and it didn't disappoint me at all. Like the title suggests, this book centers around 14-year-old Weetamoo, oldest child and successor of sachem Corbitant. The book describes one year in her life and was depicted through many Native American legends. I especially enjoyed the story of Squant, a beautiful squared eyed young women Weetamoo prays to for patience and who appears to Weetamoo in a spiritual ritual fast. The book also describes Weetamoo's interactions and feelings toward the \\"Coat-Men\\", the English of the Plymouth Colony. As the story passes, Weetamoo has many life changing experiences such as her ritual fast in which she see clues to her future, and she finds her love whom she believes will be her husband one day. <br />I really did enjoy this book, though it was not one of my favorites of the Royal Diaries. It is nice to know that there are more Native American women other than Pocohantas or Scajawea who stood up for their beliefs. Though in the end Weetamoo and her people did not triumph, their culture is very much alive in the US today, and I really recommend people to read this book to develop an understanding of them.	2004-02-10
US	43152633	RBA5EHL8V03JD	0689867069	307349800	Normal (Fearless #31)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A new story arc with a HUGE cliffhanger ending	After 30 books I've had times of doubt on how Francine could keep this series going and still make it interesting but I must admit that this new storyline of hers is pulling me in all over again. This time things are very different. We as the readers have no clue who is now after Gaia, unlike previously when everybody know it was Loki, and then Yuri. This time we are totally in the dark and Gaia is in more danger than ever. Francine also gave the plot line some punch with the fact that Oliver is starting to return to his Loki ways and reassembled his \\"team\\". There are also two new characters, \\"the queen of toothpaste\\", Liz and her gay brother Chris, new super rich students who begin to attend Gaia's school, whom befriend Gaia. (I personally suspect they are up to no good). The HUGE cliffhanger ending at the end literally drove me mad. I can't wait to find out what happens between Gaia/Ed/Jake/Kai. Lets just say things are definitely gonna change.	2004-02-09
US	43152633	R2I8ZH8YSGN83S	158485748X	928140665	Kathleen: The Celtic Knot (Girls of Many Lands)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A story of miracles	It is 1937 and Ireland is in another Depression and once again twelve-year-old Kathleen Murphy's father is out of work. For Kathleen it is devastating for she will never be able to afford Irish dancing lessions which she hold so dear to her heart. But miracles do happen, and because she has a great amount of talent Mrs. Maguire , the dance teacher, allows Kathleen to take lessons for free, but when the yearly contest draws near, Kathleen begins to dread each impending day for she knows her family has no money to spare for a fancy dance costume. Of course miracles continue to happen for Kathleen and it looks like she might acturally get her dress, but yet again there is another roadblock for her mother falls unexpectantly ill. Who will now make the dress Kathleen so desires and where will the money come from? It seems impossible, but when one thing leads to another Kathleen finds herself flying across the stage in her first contest. This was another great Girls of Many Lands book. I recommend you to read all the other ones too.	2003-11-20
US	43152633	R31P54L4HN9Q62	0689857675	943908326	Freak (Fearless, No. 30)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Finally a little closure but...	FREAK finds Gaia trying to finally have a normal life, well as normal a life that a girl without the fear gene can have. Ever since Jake helped rescue her father from Siberia she has been feeling more attracted to him and hopes to have a relationship with him in her \\"new\\" life. There is just one person keeping her from her normal life...the person who kidnapped her father, and had made her life living hell...Yuri...her grandfather. Little does Gaia know of the great things Yuri wishes for her and how close he is getting to her...<br />Oliver is try for a new beginning and that means trying to forget \\"him\\" with every ounce of his energy. Yet it pains him greatly that so many people still don't believe a word he says, including his own brother Tom, but at least Gaia, the last person he thought would understand, understands him more than anybody else...<br />Sam is regretting pushing Gaia away and now wnats more than ever to be apart of her life. But it seems he has dropped out of the \\"Gaia loop\\" and Jake is now in...<br />FREAK was a pretty decent book in the series. It had quite a few revelations and explained a great deal. I love the fact that Tom, Gaia, and Oliver can now be a family. However, Jake/Gaia bothers me somewhat. Their relationship lackes the spark of Sam/Gaia and Ed/Gaia. It was also quite disappointing that Ed was almost nonexistant in this book. He was the one that saved Gaia so many times and I kinda feel sad that Gaia has now forgotten all about him and gotten together with Jake to live her \\"new life\\". Well, I can't wait to read the next book and can't wait for the new series coming out on the WB.	2003-11-14
US	43152633	RAN83EXWF9KT2	0439560403	649867309	In the Ice Caves of Krog (The Secrets of Droon)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One ancient snow beast you don't wanna mess with!	In the now #20th edition of the Droon series, Eric, Julie, Neil and Keeah find that there are now some new problems in Droon. A new snowman seems to have woken up for his deep slumber and is destroying villages all over Droon. It turns our this snowman, named Murn, is not at all a happy camper, and to stop him the kids have to journey up north to the Ice Caves of Krog. The kids have quite a few adventures including finding the tricky cave entrance, but nothing prepares them for the surprise of seeing Murn...<br />I have to admit I am a freshman in high school, but I have been reading Droon since I was ten. I know these types of books are way out of my reading level, but they are so magical that you really do feel sucked into Keeah's world. Little kids will love this book, and it is a great way to start your children on chapter books. A must-read!	2003-10-29
US	43152633	R30BR78UDAP5T8	1584857471	510491468	Saba: Under the Hyena's Foot (Girls of Many Lands)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One of the few great books about African culture!	Twelve-year-old Saba is a regular girl living in the country of Ethopia in 1846. Like any regular girl she has a brother, Mesfin, and a strict grandmother whom she adores greatly. Everything is well for her until she and her brother disobey and venture out of their home, where they are kidnapped and brought to the royal palace. It is there that Saba finally learns of her true identity. At first, Saba, keenly unaware of the dangers of the court, can only delight in her new found surroundings. Unfortuantely, innocence can not last forever, and she learns of a deadly threat to her and her brother...one that threatens their very lives and freedom. Yet, Saba is determined to use her wits to save her and her brother from the treacherous inner working of the court.<br />I was very much fascinated with this book for it was one of the very few books that talks about the Ethopia royal family in any great detail. Saba is a strong first-person narrator and you will enjoy her way of expressing herself. A definite must-read.	2003-10-29
US	43152633	R1RK2AY6DZ71AH	0786819146	442293804	The Eternity Code (Artemis Fowl, Book 3)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The third is the charm	Artemis Fowl, now 13, and much less cold-hearted is back in the third part of this action packed series about a boy genius who is too smart for his own good.<br />Since promising his father that he'd stop his law-breaking ways, Artemis is up to one last, tiny crime that he is sure will seal his legacy. Unfortunately Artemis doesn't count on the operation being a total failure. When Artemis meets with American buisnessman Jon Spiro all Artemis wanted to do was trick Spiro into losing some big bucks over the \\"C Cube\\", a mixture of human and faerie technology way ahead of our time, a technology that will literally cause all of Spiro's enterprises to become ancient history. Instead of intimidating Spiro, Artemis is set up and Spiro steals the C-Cube while fatally wounding Butler in the process. Artemis is once again forced to enlist the help of his less than happy faerie friends. So once again we are off in another new adventure with Holly Short, Foaly, Commander Root, and of course Mulch Diggins.<br />Eoin Colfer just keeps getting better and better. This book kept you on your toes and the more involved role of Juliet Butler was definitely a welcoming surprise. In this book, Colfer shows us his great logic and humor as a writer. The ending was fitting though I will seriously miss Artemis, he just kept getting better and better. I am definitely hoping that Colfer will change his mind and write a fourth book. The ending definitely suggest more adventures in the future. Anyway more books or not, Artemis has definitely sealed his legacy in the book world.	2003-10-15
US	43152633	R28CIIFTQT0AHH	0439169631	132486002	All the Stars in the Sky: the Santa Fe Trail Diary of Florrie Mack Ryder	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A so-so read	13-year-old Florrie starts her journal as her family begins their jorney on the Sante Fe Trail from Independence Missouri. Like the title suggests, Florrie loves staring at the stars and watch for those special shooting stars. Her family also have many new experiences on the trip, such as encountering Indians, and various animals such as trantulas, and badgers. Throughtout the diary, Florrie grows into herself as she has more life experiences, such as learning Spanish and eating foods of other cultures. This books was pretty good in the fact that it described landscape very well, such as wildflowers, mountains, etc. I did feel that this diary was very similar to other accounts such as the Oregon Trail, etc. It is still a very good read for any lover of Dear America.	2003-10-11
US	43152633	R933U5IPW0DSP	0439370612	93215695	3: My America: A Fine Start, Meg's Prairie Diary, Book Three	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Meg triumphs again	Nine-year-old Meg has finally been reunited with her family in Kansas Territory and life finally seems to be settling down after the pro-slavery Ruffians finally were forced to leave. Meg and her family move to the town of Lawrence where her father opens a store. Meg comes to face the daily realites of life in Kansas and finally is able to start school and make some friends. Through it all Meg will also have to face the sometimes dangerous Kansas winters as a blizzard blows throw and tornados abound, but through it all Meg creates more life experiences and her third diary is another triumph. This is a great book for younger kids, whose older siblings like Dear America and The Royal Diaries. Definitely a must read. Meg comes out to be a very courageous character.	2003-07-21
US	43152633	R200R6C59A0ZR6	0689857659	245893631	Chase (Fearless #28)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Will leave you dying for the next book!!!	CHASE #28 in the Fearless series will definitely blow you away. Though you might be disappointed if you read the new super edition because there are no references in this book. After finding out Tiatiana was out to get her all along Gaia feels betrayed and alone. She can't turn to Ed after their breakup and Sam is still incredibly hurt. Strange as it is, Gaia realizes the only person she can turn to is Oliver. When Gaia goes to see Oliver she expects him to be still in his coma but when he wakes up a changed man Gaia's feelings change and she realizes even though he was \\"Loki\\" Oliver can seriously help her find her dad. So Gaia like always does a crazy thing, she bust Oliver out of the hospital. <br />On another hand Gaia's personal life is taking a new turn. Gaia can't put her finger on it but their is something about Jake's cockyness that lures her and she finds herself having feelings for a guy she never would have considered before...<br />Tatiana is mad and all she can think of is killing Gaia. She has a great plan in motion that will involve the feelings of a certain guy named Jake, a guy she can use to get near Gaia for the final kill...<br />Ed is fed up with thinking about Gaia. He decides to start a new relationship with Kai, an Asian girl who shares a love for skateboarding. Yet deep down Ed knows he is only using Kai to get at Gaia...<br />The ending will blow you away as I already said. Gaia and Jake will definitely get closer though I am torn over Ed or Jake. Sam/Gaia fans beware for you probably won't like this book cause Sam is almost nonexistant. New revelations are made and we might finally know where Tom is as a new storyarc begins. Definitely can't miss the next book!	2003-07-21
US	43152633	R399S1QRZGMGPN	0439443415	216398304	3: My America: A Time To Dance, Virginia Civil War Diary, Book Three	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The end of a great series	Virgina \\"Ginny\\" Dickens continues to chronicle her diary after the Civil War. Her family now has moved from Washington DC to New York City and her father continues to try to find a job as a violinist as her brother works in the newspaper buisness. Ginny countines her daily lessons and helps to take care of her nephew while her brother's wife recovers. Ginny countines to discover new things about herself as she finds herself intersted in the mysterious world of theatre and finds a job backstage. Through all her experiences Ginny finally finds happpiness. The conclusion to Ginny's diary will be another great read for My America fans.	2003-07-21
US	43152633	R223TFUEZWXQT0	0689860196	643912436	Gaia Abducted	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another superb super edition	In this new long awaited Super Edition, Gaia awakes to find herself in Fort Meyers, Florida, thousands of miles from \\"home\\", in a mental institution called Rainhill. Gaia has no recollection of how she got there or why. She only knows she has to get out. After wreaking havoc trying to convince everybody she isn't mentally insane she finally meets the enigmatic Dr.K, a man Gaia is sure will finally understand how desperate she is to get out of Rainhill and back home. However the meeting doesn't go as planned and Dr. K begins to instill new theories about her \\"fearlessness\\". Deeper secrets are revealed about her mother Katia and the depths of \\"The Organization's\\" schemes. The ending, like the previous Super Edition, will blow you away.<br />The time period of this book seems to be right after SHOCK. The only character present in this book from the series is Jake, the mysterious new guy. I must say though after reading this book Jake entered the same league as Ed and Sam in my mind. It looks like Gaia might actrually find true love in a guy you would have never thought of. Jake definitely does have more in common with her.<br />Anyway can't wait to read the next Fearless and see how this Super Edition fits in. Definitely will enjoy Jake much more!	2003-07-05
US	43152633	R35GJ4C8UKTD9S	0689857640	987174908	Shock (Fearless #27)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not much of a "shocker"	Ed and Gaia have finally called it quits. *sob* Ed has finally decided that enough is enough and is beginning to seek a new relationship, perfably with Tatiana...Gaia on the other hand is heartbroken, yet she can't bring herself to repair the damage in their relationship. Plus she already has too much to do. Dmitri has given her leads to The Organization and might be able to lead her to her father. Gaia is still shocked that Sam is out to kill her...yet when they have a confrontation things don't go as planned and it appears someone else has been playing tricks on Gaia...<br />Loki is recovering. He is still in a coma and unable to remember anything about his past. He wants to awake, yet finds his own body unresponsive. More importantly he can't remember who Gaia is...but he knows it is someone very important to him...<br />This book wasn't much of a shocker. I think from the beginning I knew who was truly after Gaia. For a while I thought it was Sam but then the more you think about it the more you know who it is...and it isn't Sam. Not much of a shocker but this book did start a whole new story arc. Hint: Someone is one the loose. Someone who hates Gaia horribly...or does she really?	2003-05-27
US	43152633	R7V6HTTI3PJJZ	0689855559	914607793	Escape (Fearless 26)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another thrilling emotional roller coaster	Now that Gaia's father has disappeared Gaia finally feels her life is back on track...back to the hell it once was...before that little glimmer of happiness...before Sam returned from the dead. Gaia doesn't know what to think of Sam or in fact what to do with him. She knows that she loves Ed 100% and her and Sam's relationship was long over, yet there are times when she still has tender feelings for him. Still she knows for the time being she must keep Sam a secret from Ed, even knowing that secrets can kill...<br />Ed knows he and Gaia are drifting apart. He can feel it in every inch of his bones. Gaia is keeping a secret and once again she is shutting him out. For the first time Ed is feeling tired of their relationship and all the bad happenings in Gaia's life and it didn't help that she disappeared right in the middle of their romantic date for some reason Ed once again is shut out from. Ed is just very very tired...<br />Definitely an emotional ride. This book was nothing that I expected it to be. I almost cried when Ed saw Gaia and Sam together. I am really beginning to wonder if that is the final straw in Ed and Gaia's relationship. The pretty new character Jake is confusing me. You expect him to be an agent for Loki, yet at times he is actrually pretty cute. Of course I am all against him and Gaia. Dimitri the new character is also very suspicious...but the one singular thing that surprised me so much was Sam's actions at the end. I didn't want him to come back from the dead but I didn't want him to end up a traitor either. If he betrayed Gaia then he might as well have stayed dead. All and all I can't wait for Shock!	2003-04-20
US	43152633	R2LOV6B8DCIX1C	0439370604	462349638	My America: For This Land, Meg's Prairie Diary, Book Two	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The prairie years	In the continuation of nine-year-old Meg Well's story, she and her brother Preston have finally been joined by her parents and little sister Grace. However Kansas at this point in history might even be more dangerous than the cholera stricken St.Louis the Wells family escaped from. Fights between the people who want Kansas to stay a free state and those who want it to turn towards slavery ensue and threaten anyone who disagrees in sight. Slaves aren't the only danger, as prarie fires threaten to tear down all things in sight. However young Meg mananges to grow up in this time of turmoil and I can't wait to read the conclusion of her story coming out in August 2003.	2003-04-18
US	43152633	R3V08QFHX14HC7	0439249767	386500982	Kristina: The Girl King, Sweden, 1638 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The girl that was determined to be "King"	From the moment Kristina was born she was the disappointment of her mother. The astrologers had all predicted that she would be the long awaited heir of her father, King of Sweden, but instead she was a girl. For weeks her mother's court were too afraid to inform the King that the \\"boy\\" was indeed a girl and the whole Kingdom of Sweden rejoiced, ignorant to the truth. When finally the truth came out the King surprised all by declaring the girl a prince and raised her like a boy that he would never have. He was determined for Kristina to become King, not Queen. When her father died during battle, the young Kristina, then six, was declared the rule ruler of Sweden, and upon turning eighteen she would become King. When the story dawns on us, the young Kristina is eleven and can't wait until the day she will finally be able to rule without her father's council. Her days are monotonous, except for the occasional nightmares that have plagued her since her father's unfortunate death. She lives with her Aunt, and receives the education of a prince, but her thoughts are alway lingering to her mother, the women she disappointed so much at birth, who is broken after her father's death. Talks of marriage ensue, but the headstrong Kristina will have none of it, for her dream is to rule like Elizabeth, the Virgin Queen of England.	2003-04-18
US	43152633	RN9D7DDLTKIBD	0439153085	445622018	Love Thy Neighbor: the Tory Diary of Prudence Emerson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The other side of the Revolutionary War	Thirteen-year-old Prudence(Pru for short) Emerson lives in the small town of Green Marsh, Massachusetts, in 1774. The Revolutionary War is about to break out and Pru's family are Loyalist to King George of England, unlike Pru's friend Abigail who is a Patriot. At this time in history Green Marsh is a very dangerous place for Loyalists for many support George Washington and the Patriots. As each day passes Pru fears for her family's safety and each day adds sadness because she and Abigail are no longer close because of political differences. Soon it becomes clear that Pru's family must leave their beloved home and flee to Boston for safety...I had always wished to read a book from the view of a Tory, instead of from a Patriot. I must say that this book was excently written and gave a good perspective of the other side of the Revolutionary War. The Patriots were not the only side that suffered, the Tories did too.	2003-04-18
US	43152633	RMGWI5IW0ONJ4	0689855516	46288332	Lost (Fearless, No. 25)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Mixed Feeling	Now that Sam is miraculously back from the dead I don't know how to feel about the series anymore. I guess I should have expected Francine to add this twist but Ed and Gaia were SO perfect together. Why did she have to bring Sam back and add more stuff to this complicated mess?? It doesn't help that Gaia stood Ed up just for Sam. I really don't want Sam and Gaia to get back anymore. I used to like the idea. When Sam first died it was like a bomb had dropped, and now that he is suddenly back alive I don't know what to think anymore. It doesn't help that Gaia is keeping Sam's return a secret from Ed. I can just see the breakup coming. The new character Jake is also a mystery. He is probably a replacement for the dead Josh. It seems whenever the series starts getting better a new twist just has to happen and once again we are strung into Gaia's messed up life again. Plus Natasha and Tiatiana are starting to act suspicious again and I'm screaming my head off because I don't need another George to pop up again. The ending was yet another cliffhanger and once again I can't wait to find out what happens next. Unfortunately Sam's return has really messed thing up. Why did he have to come back? I love him but he is really better dead.	2003-03-09
US	43152633	RGJ3UWI9W8OZT	006000553X	106268658	Victoria and the Rogue	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another well written romance	Victoria Arbutnot is 16 a rich heiress to a big fortune who grew up in the Far-East land of India. Victoria is very independent having been raised by her uncles after her parents died in India when she was only 4. Now, though, she finds herself on a ship back to England to find a suitable husband. During her journey on the ship, Harmony, she meets the charming ninth earl of Malfrey, Hugo Rothschild. The two seem to immediatley fall in love and before Victoria even sets foot on English soil, she finds herself engaged to the perfect husband. If only the handsome Jacob Cartairs, the ship's young captain, would stop meddling in their business. Victoria is extremely puzzeled by the young captain's persistantness at getting the engagement cancled and when the truth finally comes to light, earl Malfrey might just not be the perfect person after all. I definitely liked Meg Cabot's second Avon True Romance better. It seems she was more experienced this time and the mystery was definitely good.	2003-03-03
US	43152633	R1JCQKRKP3Q74S	0764226398	318666577	Mandie and the New York Secret (Mandie, Book 36)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	NYC	It is summer 1901 and Mandie accompanied with her best friends Celia and Joe, along with grandmother Mrs. Taft are going to visit the Guyers in New York. Adding to the suspense of just going to New York, Mandie had received a telegram from Jonathan saying he'd discovered a big secret from the past. Could it be related to the visible animosity between Jonathan's dad Lindall Guyer and Mrs. Taft? Mandie can't wait to find out. Unfortunately when they arrive in New York they learn that Jonathan and the others had just left to go to Long Island for a few days. Can Mandie stand the suspense?<br />This new Mandie book I felt wasn't as good as the others, but I'm sure the next book Mandie and the Night Thief will be much better as Mandie and her friends go to visit the Pattons. Of course the animosity between Senator Morton and Lindall Guyer will be fun to watch. As Jonathan said:\\"May the best man win!\\"	2003-01-20
US	43152633	R2PN9XBQYZBMAR	0440993717	675142614	The Wave (Laurel-Leaf contemporary fiction)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	It would never happen again...or would it?	It has been 15 some years since the atrocities committed by Hitler and the Nazis upon the Jewish race came to light. The horrors of the past have just become plain history and is featured in a documentary that history teacher Ben Ross will show his class. After the viewing of the documentary though, Ben is pounded with questions on why German people could have let that happen...a question to which he has no anwser for. That nagging question haunts Mr. Ross and he comes up with an experient for his senior history class called \\"The Wave.\\" A movement with the mottos \\"Strength Through Discipline\\", Strength Through Community, and Strenght Through Action\\". Soon The Wave becomes more than an experiment but a fad that takes the whole school by storm. Everybody feels The Wave is uniting people together like equals but only Laurie Saunders can see the dark, menacing side of The Wave...Will history repeat itself?<br />This was based on a true story that happened in California. I was really surprised something like this could have happened again after WWII. It was a definite awaking. This book overall was okay. There wasn't a very interesting plot and the ending was as predictable as ever, though that wasn't the authors fault. All true stories have those problems. I still recommend teens to read it though.	2003-01-15
US	43152633	RT9GQWUW4P07B	0763618470	339960894	Sorceress	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A vision quest into the past...	Agnes Herne is a Mohawk Indian living in Boston attending college when she begins to start getting visions from this girl named Mary. All she knows is that the visions are somehow connected to the girl she read about in the book &quot;Witch Child&quot;(Sorceress's prequel)named Mary Newbury. Agnes soon begin to suspect Mary is the woman in the legend of the white woman who joined the people and was a very skilled healer. Agnes decides to return to the Mohawk Indian reservation where she could get advice from her aunt, also a healer. Soon she goes on a powerful vision quest that will conclude Mary's story, the story of a girl who beat all odds and used her special powers to become a healer.<br />This was a fitting ending to Witch Child. Mary's ending wasn't exactly how I expected it to be but it was nice to find out about all the other people at Beluh and how the quilt where the original diary was found got to the museum. A definite must read for Witch Child fans!	2002-12-10
US	43152633	R1WMBU8TXH2X5X	0152165231	526916054	Doomed Queen Anne	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The queen that won all, and lost all	This, the third book in the Young Royals series focuses on the life of Anne Boleyn, second wife of Henry VIII, and mother to the Virgin Queen, Elizabeth. From the time she was born, Anne had been the dark sheep of her family. Not only did she have a sixth finger, but she also had a black mole. Anne had neither the beauty of her older sister Mary, or the importance of her younger brother George. But with an ambition as high as the mountains, Anne vowed one day that her sister, Mary, the King's mistress, will one day kneel at her feet. As a lady-in-waiting to Queen Catherine in Henry's court, Anne finally begins to see her wish coming true when she finally catches Henry's eyes. Though Anne knows Henry loves her, she knows that is not enough. The people's overall hatred of her and loyalty to Queen Catherine might ultimately be her downfall. When finally she bears Henry's child, she is finally declared Queen, a title she had vied for so many years. Only one nagging issue is  in the back of her mind: What if the child isn't a son? What if she fails Henry's ultimate wish to have a male heir? What would become of her...<br />This new edition to the Young Royals series has to be my favorite. It was quite accurate and Anne was potrayed perfectly as a girl who just wanted to prove herself worthwhile to a world that shut her out. To many Anne was the ulimate symbol of evil, but after reading this book, my opinion of her changed. She was in a tough position, but ulimately her big ambitions was also her downfall. <br />This book definitely will be more fitting for older readers. Doomed Queen Anne also probably appeals to an older audience than the previous two books. Definitely a great book to add to your collection.	2002-11-16
US	43152633	R3H130AMEOHRAH	1584854294	827255340	Kaya And Lone Dog (American Girl (Quality)) (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A special friendship	In Kaya and the Lone Dog, the 4th book in the series, Kaya is still mourning the death of her namesake Swan Circling. Feeling very much alone and also feeling the continuous guilt of getting her blind sister Speaking Rain captured, she befriends a lone dog, whom Kaya thinks is very much like her, all alone. Though her family and friends object to her befriending the Lone Dog, for it is unusual for a dog to live alone, Kaya doesn't heed their warnings and forms a special bond with the dog. After Lone Dog gives birth to some puppies, Kaya feels more and more attached to the dog and her pups, like they are her family. It is almost like Lone Dog can communicate with her. However, as the pups grow older, Kaya begins to feel the inevitable. Will Lone Dog leave her? Kaya is hopelessly torn as she knows Lone Dog is a dog that want to be free to roam the wild. In the end, Lone Dog gives a very special gift to Kaya, so she could remember her.	2002-11-11
US	43152633	R2A5G33KZNHA68	1584854278	59238610	Kaya's Hero (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Names that stay with us forever	In Kaya's Hero, the 3rd book in the series, Kaya is in awe at the bravery of a particular young woman in her tribe named Swan Circling. Kaya respects Swan Circling's fearlessness, and how she even goes with the men into battle. Kaya desperately wants to be friends with Swan Circling, but is afraid her past mistakes, which earned her the nickname \\"Magpie\\" might turn Swan Cirling away. As Kaya begins to know Swan Circling better she decides to tell Swan Circling the truth of her past, even if it mean jeoperdizing their new friendship. However, something terrible happens before Kaya can spill her feelings out. But with the tragedy, Kaya also learns a new lesson, and gets one of the most special gifts from Swan Circling. I liked this new Kaya book quite a lot, and it might turn into my favorite book in the series. You can really see how Kaya grows through this book, and Swan Circling seems like the perfect role model.	2002-11-11
US	43152633	R3ULP8R67JUX92	1584854316	59238610	Kaya Shows The Way (American Girl Collection)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The importance of family	Summer time has arrived for Kaya, and this means making the annual journey to Celilo Falls for salmon fishing and much much more. Kaya can't wait for the fun, but she also hopes that at Celilo Falls, some of the other tribes might have news about her lost sister, Speaking Rain. Her other sister, Brown Deer, is on her mind too. Brown Deer is soon to marry Cut Creek, and Cut Creek's aunt has come to see if Brown Deer will be a suitable wife. For Kaya it is a very bittersweet summer. She finally finds her sister Speaking Rain, only to find out that Speaking Rain has made a vow to the woman who saved her to never leave. And what about Brown Deer? Kaya knows that if Brown Deer marries Cut Creek, she will have to leave them. Will Kaya come up with some plans so she won't be losing both her sisters at once? I felt that this book could have been better. When they introduced this book they said there would be a lot of festivites for the Nez Perce during the summer. Unfortunately so much time was spent on Kaya trying to solve her family problems, that nothing really fun was mentioned. I was really hoping to see how Nez Perce celebrated the arrival of summer. There wasn't that much mention of Two Hawks either which disappointed me a bit. Still this is a good book to add to your collection.	2002-11-11
US	43152633	RSY2MS29681DW	0439199999	153395170	2: A My America: A Perfect Place, Joshua's Oregon Trail Diary, Book Two	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A perfect continuation of Joshua's story	It is now fall of 1848 when Joshua starts his second journal. Now Joshua and his family which consists of his Pa,Ma,Grandpa, sister, aunt, uncle, and cousin, Charlie, have all arrived in the Willamette Valley safely. As new challenges arise in this new, unchartered wilderness, Joshua must face many new challenges and experience numerous adventures. As the numerous days of rain brings massive flooding, the one family dream, that they would have a home by Christmas, seems diminished to bits, just like their old tents were diminished by the floods. Can Joshua work up some Christmas magic so that his whole family, including his expecting mother, can have a Christmas home? The continuation of Joshua's story was another good edition to My America. I think I liked it even better than the first one. Joshua's spirit truly shines through.	2002-11-10
US	43152633	R35REZUDUWSC42	0590882732	439266803	Mother, May I? (Remnants #8)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Far from K.A.'s best work	500 years after they left Earth, the remaining Remnants(numbers still dwindling), have finally seemed to settle down after the \\"Big Compromise\\". However, everyone knows it is no \\"real\\" life, for everything is computer-generated by Billy. So, when Jobs finds a mysterious object that looks very much like the remnants of what \\"Earth\\" used to be, will the Remnants be able to convince Billy to break the Big Compromise and turn the ship around? And what about all the other troubles brewing that everyone still doesn't know about? Such as Yago, and his secret plottings with the Blue Meanies? What about Amelia, a new Remnant they discover, whose mutation is beyond weird...and the questions she raises about what Billy truly is? What about the other missing remnants that Amelia hints at? <br />To me Remnants has been a disappointment(except book #2) to me. We keep hearing the same old stories. I'm tired of the battles between the Remnants, Blue Meanies, Rider, etc...How many useless pages do we waste on that? The bickering between 2Face and Yago has just gotten old. Even Jobs and Mo'Steel seemed to have lost their magic. I just hope K.A. gets the series back on track soon, or it'll be another series of disappointing reviews.	2002-10-31
US	43152633	R195BMVZLOYWID	0439306094	988080913	The Secrets of Droon #16: The Knights of Silversnow	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Another venture into Droon	Ever since he found the Wand of Urik, Eric can't seem to get rid of it. It has always been following him, and now it is in the Upper World with him. Tempted by it, he uses it to stop his best friend Julia from moving away, unaware of the dangers he has just surfaced by using the wand. Soon things start getting really strange in the Upper World, and the three kids Eric, Neal, and Julia immediately seek the help of their Droon friends, Princess Keeah and Max, the spider. They soon realize though that Droon is also in chaos, after a big earthquake, bunches of marmots have invaded the castle. Seeking help, they go to a witch in the woods who tells them that Lord Sparr and his disgusting snake, who are the cause of the earthquakes, are in the land of Goll, getting stronger each day, and searching for a powerful weapon to bring the final blow on Droon. Even worse, it seems Galen, the powerful wizard, has been captured by them. The kids soon learn that the only hope for Droon might lie on Ice Hills, where the three Knights of Silversnow rest, waiting for the day they will be needed to save Droon. So, suddenly summer turns into winter as the kids have another whole new adventure in Droon. A wonderful book for kids just starting to read. Definitely a great fantasy book for all!	2002-10-27
US	43152633	RSRU5YD8T6X70	1584854235	59238610	Meet Kaya, Book 1	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Kaya, a new American Girl!	Kaya is a nine-year-old Nez Perce girl who is quite strong-willed. In the first book, Meet Kaya, she learns a lesson that will be the centrol plot for the rest of the series, that in her tribe, people must work together, instead of just thinking of oneself. She gets into trouble when the show-off part of her personality gets the better of her and she brags about her new horse Steps High. All the bragging only gets her into trouble as she gets herself into a race, even though she knows her horse isn't ready yet. Not only does everthing go wrong but she loses her mischevious twin brothers in the process. Thus the disicpline women of her tribe gives her the nickname \\"Magpie\\" to remind her never to be selfish again... I like this new book, but I don't think it is the best in the Collection either. I still recommend them.	2002-10-27
US	43152633	RIIZ2ILXSD0NE	1584854251	59238610	Kaya's Escape (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A new different format for a new, different experience	I was surprised that Pleasent Company had finally broken their traditional format for the Kaya series, but now I understand why, it is to show that the Indians, including Kaya's Nez Perce tribe have a very special place in our nation's past, present, and future.<br />Kaya's Escape is the 2nd book in the Kaya series and this time Kaya is faced with tremendous challenges as a neighboring tribe attacks while the warriors are away. Told to hide in the forest with her blind sister Speaking Rain, Kaya disobeys because she is worried for the safety of her horse, Steps High, and her one instinctive decision gets both her and her sister captured. Kaya feels very responsible as they are taken away, as slaves, from their homeland and does everything she can to help with the daily chores of her blind sister, to somehow make up for what she did, all the while hoping her father and the rest of the tribe will come and rescue them. When she learns that the people who captured them will soon be moving for the winter Kaya finally realizes she must escape with her sister or they are done for good and will never be able to return home. She befriends anther Indian slave boy and enlists his help in escaping. However, Kaya knows she must make a big decision, can she leave Speaking Rain behind, and go for help, for their is no way a blind girl could make such a journey? This story about Kaya was another success. I recommend all to read it, for it gives a unique experience on Indian life, during the period when the whites had not interfered with their culture.	2002-10-26
US	43152633	R3TJ6RA4TNZFN6	0060294698	9669590	All-American Girl	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A laugh-out-loud, romantic, ride	Samantha Madison knows she's destined for ruin. Not only is she the middle child,(everyone knows the middle child gets the least attention)but she just also happens to have a cheerleader, older sister Lucy, who has got one CUTE boyfriend and, her little sister just happens to be a certified genuis. When her parents send her to a professional artist, Susan Boone, so she can express her artistic ability, instead of drawing movie hunks in German class(which by the way she is failing)Samantha is sure all her family is against her. So nothing else can go wrong right?Not! She becomes the whole laughting stock of the art class, because Susan keeps saying she doesn't \\"see\\" what she draws and guess who throws a fit? Oh, yeah did we mention that this idiotic guy named David makes a cute comment on her boots and Sam gets all blushy? Humiliated and angry Samantha cuts her art class and only happens to pounce on a guy with a gun and save the President's life, breaking her arm in the process. Suddenly Samantha finds herself thrust into the limelight, she so wants to escape. Everyone thinks she's a hero, even though she knows she is far from one. Coke and Pepsi want her to sponser their soda, Barbara Walters wants to interview her, and she is made Teen Ambassador to the UN. What could get worse? How about she finds out the president's son, turns out to be David, and he might just be in love with her?<br />Meg Cabot has once again showed us that she can make a good book out of any topic. I loved her Princess Diaries books and I think I like All-American Girl even more. It is so sweet. I can't wait for All-American Girl 2!	2002-10-26
US	43152633	R16MVFO8KL4YHC	006000486X	652447221	Tess and the Highlander	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great romance	Tess Lindsey has lived on the remote island of Isle of May and has been raised by the only two other people who lived on the island, all the time uncertain of who she is and her true identity. After the death of her caretakers, she is left on the island all by herself and must do battle alone. That is until one day she rescues a stranger---a stranger who also holds her questions of her past in his very hands. Colin MacPherson has the knack for adventure and a beautiful girl at every single place he visits, that is until he meets Tess...a strong-willed girl that intrigues him at every turn. As the two form a bonding trust Colin begins to piece together the clues of Tess's mysterious past...and a future that most likely will not include him. This definitely has to be one of the best Avon True Romances so far, after Anna and the Duke. I didn't expect it to be this good so it really took me by surprise. Every teenage girl who loves romance should read this book!	2002-10-22
US	43152633	R26D5AFXMUTARQ	0439439825	573139863	When Christmas Comes Again: The World War I Diary of Simone Spencer, New York City to the Western Front 1917 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The inspiring diary of a "Hello Girl"	The year is 1917, and for seventeen-year-old Simone Spencer the World War overseas has caused her world to take a 360-degree turn. Her brother, Will, is in the army, and Simone finds with each passing day that her high society life in New York is far from what she wants. Searching for some meaning in her life, Simone finally volunteers to be a \\"Hello Girl,\\" better know as French speaking girls who work as switchboard operators. Little does Simone know the many challenges the raging war will through her and the influence she will play. As each day passes with new surprises, all Simone wishes for is that her family will return intact and well. <br />Being a big fan of \\"Hello Girls\\", the ones who helped bring the Allie victory, I was very excited to finally find out they were going to do a piece on them. Though this diary was written by a virtual unknown, I felt Beth Levine did a great job writing this diary and should be commended. Another book I would recommend to read is Survival in the Storm, by a fifteen-year-old sensation. To close it up, I recommend all to read this new Dear America book.	2002-10-22
US	43152633	RL6J7V8U09LJ3	0439164842	901356185	Eleanor: Crown Jewel of Aquitaine, France, 1136 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	My favorite Royal Diary so far.	Thirteen-year-old Eleanor is the oldest daughter of Count William Aquitaine, and heir to her Father's powerful empire even since her younger brother died at the age of four. Being a teenage girl, Eleanor and her younger sister Petronilla, live in the many beautiful palaces of her father and are under the care of their Grandmere, who also gave Eleanor this diary to write in. Mischieveous Eleanor is always a constant struggle to her Grandmere and ladies-in-waiting. However, Eleanor's light, happy life takes a turn when her careless father, dies of food-poisoning, on their pilgrimage to Spain. All of a sudden Eleanor finds herself owning a bunch of land and bethrothed, for political reasons, to sixteen-year-old Prince Louis VII of France. Eleanor knows that her father's many lands, which is even bigger than King Louis's empire is very much the reason for the bethrol. Through this all Eleanor wonders if she can ever marry only for love and nothing else. Her perseptives change though when she finally meets her young teenage husband, and the sparks between them fly. This is definitely my favorite Royal Diary. I am quite the romantic and I loved Prince Louis and Eleanor's romance, it was brilliantly written. I can tell much research was made to write this book and I recommend all fans to read it.	2002-10-19
US	43152633	R1C09P1UDNC4UC	0439063108	802256848	The Journal of Jedediah Barstow: An Emigrant On The Oregon Trail (My Name is America series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A nice depiction of the Oregon Trail	After the rest of his family drowned while fording a river on the Oregon Trail, Jedediah Barstow finds himself all alone and carrying on the family \\"dream\\" which to him has already been shattered. Adopted by the Henshaw family Jedediah finds himself braving the trails of the old west to carry on the family dream. Even through the constant complaints from grouchy Mr. Henshaw Jedediah perseveres knowing he is the only one to fulfill the dream of his family. Through fording rivers, meeting Indians, getting stampeded by bufflo, and carving his name on Chimney Rock, you get to look into the life of a brave young boy carrying on the family dream.	2002-10-12
US	43152633	R2E9SY6UP6BSHB	0439223504	83106131	The Royal Diaries: Jahanara, Princess Of Princesses: India, 1627 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Okay diary.	14-year-old Jahanara Begum Sahib might be the highest ranking princess of her royal family, thus the title Princess of Princesses, but her life is very dull. Her family are imprisoned by the \\"Snake\\" Nur Mahal, Jahanara's step-grandmother, and they are not permitted anywhere outside of their harem. However after a quick turn of events, in which her father even fakes his own death, Jahanara finds herself once again a princess and her father in power. However the curse of Nur Mahal, and her constant plotting is never far. However Jahanara soon realized that not all things would be the same again. Her brother Aurangzeb has been tranfered into a power-hungry radical Muslim boy and hates anything not Muslim, evening bending down so low as to poisen their father's 3rd wife who was Hindu. Jahanara begins to realize that Aurangzeb might do anything to become emperor, evening killing his two older brothers...<br />I had loved all of Kathryn Lasky's previous diaries, especially Elizabeth I Red Rose of the House of Tudor, which continues to be my favorite on out of all the Royal Diaries, so I had high expectations for this book. Some of those expectations were met, like always Lasky described very well the court life of India. Unfortunately I felt this book was really lacking a center plot. Too many things were going on and Lasky never really established a plot. It is still a very good book about India though.	2002-10-12
US	43152633	R27M8UXVCOJADN	0786813261	803973929	What a Trip! Around the World in Eighty Days (Cracked Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A trip around the world!	Once again Devin and his friend for life even if she is a girl Frankie find themselves zapped through Mrs.Figglehopper's mysterious zapper gates in the library and right into Julius Vern's 19th century book Around The World In Eighty Days. There they meet the robotic and cold Phileas Fogg and his contrasting servants, who is energetic, Passporte. When Fogg places a bet that he can make it around the world in eighty days the four find themselves journeying around the world. Together they have to brave the delays, rescue a princess, and weazel their way around a very annoying Detective Fix, who is set that Fogg is a bank robber. This Cracked Classic was one of my favorite and I do recommend parents getting it for their children. It makes sometimes boring classics a lot more fun.	2002-10-05
US	43152633	R31ATVU2JKEEJH	0060011343	996609656	Miranda and the Warrior	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Quite the charming romance	Miranda Thurston has had a very sheltered childhood. Being the only child of an U.S. Calvary officer she is the only reminder to her father of her dead mother. You can say Miranda is a bit naive, for after repeated warnings, and living on the frontier, Miranda never believed there was much danger to the news of Cheyenne raids, that is until she herself is captured by a Cheyenne warrior named Shadow Walker. Shadow Walker is a respected warrior to the Cheyenne and after his uncle got captured in a raid he was out to revenge and was quite disappointed to find that he had only managed to capture a worthless girl. Soon though he begins to realize this isn't one normal girl, but a defiant one as she rebels against him any chance she has. Frustrated, Shadow Walker begins her into the wilderness of the forest to teach her lessons. Little are both prepared for the feelings that will surface between the two of them. I felt that this is probably one of the weakest Avon True Romances. It is still a nice book to sit down and read.	2002-10-05
US	43152633	R28OABBE0OJHF	0743444019	640324603	Fear (Fearless #23)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	WOW!!	Gaia and Tatiana are finally working togther to stop Loki once and for all. But it may be too late for Loki has already captured Tom and Natasha, and it looks like they aren't gonna get out alive...Ed is finally walking again, and it was great to finally see him get on a skateboard again, quite touching. Ed has finally rejected Tatiana, knowing that the only girl he ever wants to be with is Gaia, who still thinks he is the worst person on Earth. Little does he know all the inner turmoil going on in Gaia's world...<br />Heather is finally fearless, like Gaia. She thinks it is the best thing to happen to her, but soon things don't go as they are suppose to. Suddenly she is having blackouts, can't remember where she was, or what she did. In other words, Heather knows she is going crazy...Josh regreted his decision of giving the fearless serum to Heather more than anything and when the lab animals all start dying he knows Heather could very well be the next. So he does the one thing he could ever do for the woman he loves, except the stakes are high and he know he will pay with his life...<br />Wow, this was a definite improvement on the recent fearless books. Definitely this story arc is coming to an end and the cliffhanger ending starts a whole new story arc which is defintely going to bring its ups and downs. I can't wait for the next edition Betrayed. This ending to this book was so unexpected it caught me by total surprise but will definitely bring more interesting plots in the next few editions. This book definitely brought back some excitement in the series!	2002-09-28
US	43152633	RWUJG36X7B6LZ	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A deadly new foe...	...<BR>Micheal Stackpole first edition to the New Jedi Order Series is definitely owrthy of compliment. It perfectly brings the new and old generations of Star Wars fans together and makes a great continuation of Vector Prime. Though, this isn't my favorite book in the series, it did have some well described action scenes. I don't think this book, though, quite gave me the edge of the seat effect other Stars Wars books do though and for some reason this book just didn't have that much juice to it. Still, I do recommend this book to Star Wars fans all over our wide galaxy.	2002-09-20
US	43152633	R3PZ78EE67C5MU	0439194466	905682303	Mirror, Mirror on the Wall: The Diary of Bess Brennan, The Perkins School for the Blind, 1932 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A unique look into the life of a blind girl	Sledding was a yearly ritual for 12-year-old Bess Brennan. That is until the day came when she slammed into her tree and lost her sight forever. For Bess suddenly the whole world had just changed in a split second. An avid diary writer since seven, Bess finds now that she must rely on her twin sister Elin to right entries for her. At first all Bess wants to do is hide from the world, shut herself in a room. But her family wouldn't let her give up on herself and sent her to the Perkins School for the blind. Bess slowly begins to regain her confidence as she finds herself surrounded by people who are much like her, blind and also struggle to grasp the concept of Braille, language for the blind. This unique diary takes you into the life of a girl who is very couragous and I really liked it because it was a fresh new idea from Dear America, the first of its kind. It was also nice to learn about Perkins, where Hellen Keller went to school. All and all another hit from Dear America.	2002-09-08
US	43152633	R2YZO9I7N61HRE	0671036017	641592894	Hindenburg,1937	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A love that would never die...	Sixteen-year-old Anna Becker's life had spun out of control when her beloved grandfather died, still clutching the tickets for the Hindenburg to America. Now she'd be lucky if she can get out of the strong clutches of her brother Kurt, before he marries her off, and she surrenders her freedon forever to Nazi Germany's rules. When she is finally able to outsmart her brother, young Anna begins her daring escape to America on the doomed Hindenburg and on the way meets a young, mysterious man named Erik Peterson, who offers instant safety and maybe something more...then her world comes to a crashing halt when she meets the man who tore her heart to pieces, a man she swore to forget forever, Karl Mueller, the man she used to love, who Erik says is now a Nazi spy. Soon Anna finds herself torn between the two men, one who promises new love, and one who probably holds her heart as well as her future in his very hands. Soon Anna finds that is it more than her conscience, but her heart too that will help her make the right decision.<br />Wow! This was such a great love story movie. It would make the most romantic love story. Even though we knew that the Hindenburg was doomed this story brought the accident into a whole new light. The tragic ending was so sad it made me cry, but I think it was a fitting ending to the story. Just a beautiful book everyone should read.	2002-08-20
US	43152633	R13REFCUB4F15T	0064473465	152172756	Catherine and the Pirate	Books	5	3	7	N	N	A exciting historical romance	Even being born into a weathly Boston family can't hold young Catherine Markham's wild and adventures nature. Unfortunately she is stifled by the constant rules imposed on her, but she yearns to be free. Soon, though, Catherine finds her chance, when her young brother is kidnapped she finds it is her perfect chance to prove herself, and decides to deliver the ransom by herself and enlists in the help of a young man few would ever look to---a pirate named Derrick St. John. Derrick's life has been spent on the high seas. His man goal in life is to clear his father's name---a name tainted with treason. The last thing this young pirate has time for is to accompany a young lady who is a bit of a hellion, to Savannah while they are at war with the British. However, Derrick finds an emotion inside of him that can not refuse Catherine's desperate pleas for help. So the two of them set out on a adventure that is also an adventure of the heart. I loved this Avon True Romance too. It was quite the exciting romance novel. I recommend all teenage girls to read it.	2002-08-18
US	43152633	R10M9B9UNMGAC8	1556616767	743640106	Mandie and the Quilt Mystery (Mandie, Book 35)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The mysterious message from the past...	Mandie and her friends, Joe and Celia, have just begun their summer vacation and can't wait to begin their trip by going to visit Jonathan Guyer in New York. Things change though when Mandie's Cherokee friend Uncle Ned shows up with the quilt Mandie found in the attic, with the mysterious message. He had promised Mandie he would ask Uncle Wirt what it meant but now Uncle Ned refuses to tell Mandie what it means, saying that it is a bad,sad message. Of course it stirs up the couriosity juices in Mandie, and she changes her plans and decides to go see her Cherokee people first, to find out what the message on the quilt means, instead of visiting Jonathan first. Just when Mandie and her friends get settled down the quilt mysteriously disappears! Who could have taken yet? Can it be connected to the disappearence, once again, of Mandie's cousin T'sani, who is a noctorious troublemaker? Will they ever find out what the message means? Read to find out!<br />This, as usual, was another wonderful Mandie book. I have been reading them since I was 9 and it has been 4 years since I have started and they are still as good as the first ones. I can't wait for the next installment called Mandie and the New York Secret. It looks like it will reveal why Mrs. Taft and Jonathan's father don't have a very good relationship...something from the past caused the rift and what is it? I can't wait to find out!	2002-08-15
US	43152633	R3W2QFJRB15CUR	0345435400	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not as good as I expected...	A feew years after the events of the Phantom Menace, 12-year-old Jedi Apprentice Anakin Skywalker is once again becoming restless, sneaking away from the Jedi Temple to compete in illegal races. The Jedi Council decides to give him and Master Obi-Wan Kenobi their first mission to hold some of Anakin's loose energy. Their mission: to go to the little know rogue planet, Zonoma Sekot, the source of the fastest planes in the universe, to search for a lost Jedi Vegere. Soon the two find the planet isn't all it seems as the two are swept up into deadly intrigue that will threaten their relationship and show Anakin his most darkest side. <br />I was sure the combination of George Bear and Star Wars would work out but not really. This book was pretty confusing at times and just not that good. I would recommend \\"The Approaching Storm\\" besides this. I did like seeing the beginning of Anakin's dark side and the fact that they introduced the character Vegere who will have a more interesting role in the New Jedi Order series.	2002-08-14
US	43152633	R12TU6ECZVR7KQ	0786813253	929249223	Cracked Classics #2: Mississippi River Blues: The Adventures of Tom Sawyer	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Twain's classic	Once again Devin and his pal-for-life-even-if-she-is-a-girl Francine \\"Frankie\\" Lang find them ill-prepared for a literature test. They decide to once again use the library's mysterious zapper gates to get them into the story---which just happens to be The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. Once again the two find themselves swept up into Twain's classic. Both soon find out that Tom is pretty much like them, a troublemaker. Soon they hook up with Tom's longtime pal Huck Finn and soon the four are swept up into their own adventures, such as whitewashing fences, pretending to be pirates, attending their own funerals, and most important, they witness a murder while visiting the graveyard at midnight. Can they bring the true person to justice? This was another great Cracked Classics. They are nice for young children and might encourage them later in life to read the actrull classic!	2002-08-14
US	43152633	R22NZAJNCGI1B4	0786808551	857095333	Artemis Fowl: The Arctic Incident (Artemis Fowl, Book 2)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Artemis Fowl is back and better than ever!	When I heard that the sequel of Artemis Fowl was coming out I was very excited and got the book the first day it was published, though I have been too lazy to write a review until now. I must say, I LOVED this book much more than the first one and will definitely give Harry Potter a run for its money. <br />This whole new adventure of Artemis Fowl's starts with him at an Ireland boarding school when suddenly out of the blue he receives an urgent video email from a person he thought he would never ever see again in his life---his father, Artemis Fowl Sr. It turns out after his ship the \\"Fowl Star\\" sank in the arctic ocean, Artemis Fowl Sr. was kidnapped by the Russian Mafiya. (Intersting huh?) As Artemis rushes to save his father, he is once again stopped in his tracks by a familiar foe, LEPrecon fairy police, Holly Short. This time though Artemis isn't going to work against them, but must enlist in their help to track down and save his father. Of course, things aren't going to be easy, as a betrayer in the LEPrecon fairy police, must once again call Atemis' brilliant mind to work. Artemis Fowl is definitely back and better than ever. I really liked to see the lighter side of Artemis Fowl and this book was another adventure full of magic, laugh-out-loud humor, and more importantly, heart.	2002-08-12
US	43152633	R4FYI1TPUFL7Y	0399233687	900700036	Rowan Hood: Outlaw Girl of Sherwood Forest	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice new adventure to add to the myth of Robin Hood	When her half-aelfe mother, Celandine, is murdered, thirteen-year-old Rosemary Hood finds that she has no choice but to go find the father she has never known---the famous outlaw of Sherwood Forest, Robin Hood. Disguising herself as a boy, and taking the name Rowan, she begins her daring journey into Sherwood Forest to track down her father. Soon she enlists the help of a band of followers, including Lionel, the cowardly giant, who has a gift with music, a runaway princess, and a half-wolf, half-dog. Together this strange pairing of people must survive the many perils of Sherwood Forest. However when Rowan gets the news that Robin Hood had been captured, can she gather up her courage to go and save him? Can she live up to her famous name?<br />I had high expectations for Nancy Springer's book Rowan and many of them were met, though not all. As always Nancy Springer weaves together a great fantasy tale, but somehow Rowan just doesn't pass to me as a heroine. This book is still good and I do recommend people who enjoy fantasy to read it.	2002-08-12
US	43152633	R3MRFKXM22DQ1S	0439306086	599116711	The Secrets of Droon #15: The Moon Scroll	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The magical "Moon Scroll"	Since their last adventures, Galen has gone chasing Lord Sparr in his evil underworld, called Goll. Soon he finds that he will need the powerful wand of Urik to defend himself and get back to Droon. Unfortunately the wand has been hidden for years and no one has any idea where it could be---and the only way to find out where the wand truly is, is to follow the mysterious Moon Scroll with magical powers. Princess Keeah and her three Upper World friends, Eric, Julia, and Neal must again work together to help save Galen, and soon they find out that the Moon Scroll has the power of taking people back in time! So thus their adventure begins, one that can only happen in the land of Droon!<br />I have been reading Droon books for quite awhile and even though they are out of my age group, I must say, I really really enjoy them. The magical world of Droon will suck you in and every book invites you go through the door in Eric's basement and walk the staircase to another world! If you like this series I recommend you to read \\"Cracked Classics\\" another fun series by Tony Abbott!	2002-08-08
US	43152633	R1TLJC89TJTWJD	0786813245	874821056	Cracked Classics #1: Trapped in Transylvania:  Dracula (Cracked Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Funny being to "Cracked Classics"	Sixth graders Devin Bundy and his pal Frankie Lang are your two tradition class troublemakers. After their teacher finds out they haven't read the book assigned to them in class, she punishes them by telling them to write a report on the book \\"Dracula\\" and get sentenced to library duty and work with the funny Mrs. Figglehopper(what a name!) Soon they are sent off by Mrs. Figglehopper to repair the damaged library books and before they know what is happening they are zapped by the library's secruity system to 1897 Translyvania and right into Bram Stoker's vampire classic \\"Dracula\\"(Yes, we are talking the real thing here!) To their horror, the two mischiveous trouble makers find out that the only way to leave is to...READ!! I recommend all kids to read this hilirous book. It is perfect for kids just starting to get into chapter books!	2002-08-08
US	43152633	R37CW0487NT58Y	0060287381	479860363	Boston Jane Series: An Adventure	Books	5	13	15	N	N	To be a lady...	Sixteen-year-old Jane Peck used to be the tomboyish, unladylike sort, until she decided to enroll herself into Miss Hepplewhite's Young Ladies Academy and become a \\"proper lady\\". For Jane things couldn't be better now that she is a lady, and when her childhood crush, William Baldt, asks her to marry him and go to the Northwestern Territory, Jane consents, even against the wishes of her beloved father. Soon though, Jane begins to kinda regret her decision as she suffers seasickness, deals with the young, despicable, yet charming sailor Jehu Scudder, and sees her companion Mary die in a storm. Jane knows, however, that William will be waiting for her and she perseveres. Unfortunately when she arrives, she learns that Willliam won't be back for months after he was sent on a mission by the Governor. Soon Jane learns that the wilderness life is quite unsuitable for her ladylike ways, and she finds herself going back to her old ways, the person she truly is. In just a few short monthes Jane has had as many adventures as we might have in a lifetime, from forage for salmonberries, almost drowning, sharing a cabin with flea-bitten, dirty men, and the one thing that Jane fears the most: her growing relationship with the young sailor Jehu Scudder. Her mind tells her though that she must stay loyal to William, even though her heart says something else, so she rejects Jehu, telling him she has no choice. The hurt Jehu leaves the settlement and for the first time Jane feels very much alone...until finally William returns! However William has brought secrets back with him, and when Jane finally finds out the truth she learns how ignorant she was to her father's warning, but the thing that she regrets the most is telling Jehu she had no choice...<br />This is the first novel I have ever read by Jennifer L. Holm and I must say I have become a quick fan of her. Jane has the charm and wit that is hard to resist. It was also really fun to read how Jane reminded herself how to be a ladyand quoted alot from her etiquette book. I can't wait to read the new book in the Boston Jane trilogy: Boston Jane: Wilderness Days!	2002-08-07
US	43152633	R1K7Z8OT5359NL	0064408078	527174254	Fallout (Wessex Papers, No. 2)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The second thrilling book in the Wessex Papers trilogy	Noah is deep in trouble. Not only did he have sex with the new teacher, Miss Burke, but he somehow got caught on tape doing it! Now he is being backmailed for $200,000. Noah isn't sure how it happened, but he does know that Fred Wright, who he thought was his buddy, has definitely got to be responsible. When the deadline comes and he still doesn't have the money, Noah finds himself expelled from school with nowhere to go and his life a whole mess...<br />Fred has no idea why Noah accused him of betraying him but he is gonna find out what conspiracy is going on at the school. Enlisting the help of Sunday the two begin to investigate the whole matter. Soon they uncover clues and find this conspiracy has been going on for quite a long while. The revelations about the conspiracy isn't the only shocking thing, their feelings for eachother too are starting to grow...until their world comes to a crashing halt after just witnessing what they believe is a murder...<br />The second book in the Wessex Trilogy is almost as good as the first. Of course the cliffhanger ending makes you grab the 3rd book and just start reading. I highly recommed these books to teens!	2002-08-07
US	43152633	R1JX7USVGBL7EJ	0064408191	496645228	Homeless Bird	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An insightful, and beautifully written book of modern India	At age thirteen, Koly finds that her parents has already arranged a marriage for her, their only daughter, and Koly knows like many other girls in India, she will have to leave her beloved home forever. Using her great talent for needlework, Koly stitches a quilt of her dearest memories of home to take with her as her drowry. When the wedding day finally comes, Koly finds that things aren't what they were said to be. The boy she is to marry, Hari, is sickly, and Koly soon finds out the family only wanted her for her drowry, so they can find help for their son. Unfortunately Hari still dies and Koly finds herself caught up in tradition that will most certainly produce a horrifying fate. When her greatest fears are realized, and her Sass abandones her in the city of Vrindavan, known as the dwelling place for widows, Koly soon finds herself cast out into a cruel world that doesn't pity her kind---until her fate is changed when she meets a boy named Raji who brings her to a shelter for widows. For the first time Koly feels safe and realizes hope is one the horizon for her.<br />This was a wonderful book about modern India, written beautifully by Gloria Whelan. It gives great insight and unfortunately many of the things stated are true in India still today, though I have doubt about the widows in the temple part. This book, though, has definitely become my favorite of all Gloria Whelan books.	2002-08-02
US	43152633	R1X7V1EIPXGZCH	0439073367	463486581	Girl In Blue	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another good historical novel by Ann Rinaldi	Desperate to flee the control of a demanding, abusive father and a marriage to her despicable neighbor Ezekie Kunkle, who is twice her age, sixteen-year-old Sarah runs away from home and cleverly disguises herself as a man and joins the 2nd Michigan Infantry during the Civil Wars. Posing as \\"Neddy Compton\\" Sarah soon learns the horrors of war as she participates in the battle of Bull Run. When her true identity is finally revealed, Sarah finds she must choose between jail or posing as a spie for Allan Pinkerton, head of the Pinkerton Detective Agensy, who observes that she has a talent in the art of mimicry. Not wanting to go to jail, Sarah agrees to pose as a spy to investigate Rose Greenhow, who is thought to be a spy for the Rebels. What Sarah doesn't expect is the lies, love, betrayal, and intrigue that will come with this new, dangerous job.<br />I am a big fan of Ann Rinaldi, and though \\"Girl in Blue\\" I felt was not her best work, it was still a pretty good book. Though at times the book was a little slow going, especially during the time Sarah does her spy work, it is still one to be read. If you like this book I am sure you will also enjoy Amelia's War, another Civil War historical by Ann Rinaldi.	2002-08-02
US	43152633	R1GD7BAWW78FQF	0345443004	666958502	The Approaching Storm (Star Wars)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another good edition to Star Wars	I was quite excited to learn that there was a prologue to Star Wars: Attack of the Clones, so I couldn't wait to read The Approaching Storm. It tells of Obi-Wan and Anakins daring mission on the planet Anison...<br />Anison is a very important planet to the Republic, but it is in danger of joining the secessionist movement. Because of Ansion's many treaties, if it seceeds, many others will also follow. The urban dewellers on Anison are tired of the constant control of the Republic, wanting to expand into the prairies outside the cities, but always stopped by the Ansion nomads and the constant rules of the Republic. If their demands are not met they will secede---and the already fragile Republic will weaken even more. To keep the peace the Jedi Council sends two Jedi Knights, Obi-Wan and Luminara Unduli(you've got it! she is a lady! YEAH!) along with their two Padawan learners Anakin and Barriss to settle the conflict and hopefully sign a peace treaty between the two conflicting sides. As the Jedi soon find out, their journey won't be easy... Not only are natural diasters in their way---there are man-made ones as well---for someone wants their mission to fail...<br />I really did enjoy this book by my longtime favorite Alan Dean Foster. I wish I could give it 5 stars but there were some glaring weaknesses. For one, I thought at times there was too much detail in one area and too little in places that needed more. The action scenes(what little there was) were not really well described. On the other hand there were pages describing different nomadic tribes the Jedi come upon in their journey. The first time it was actrully nice to read about the tribes, but by the second and third time it just became a total waste of time and paper, which made the story slow going. Othewise I really did enjoy this book. Probably my favorite part of this book was that there were actrully female Jedi(Luminara and Barriss). The two happen to be my favorite characters in this book. They truly bring a whole new atmosphere to this book. The Approaching Storm is definitely a worthy edition to Star Wars.	2002-08-01
US	43152633	RQ9GJGJSNVFMT	0064407942	216402329	Wessex Papers #3: Outsmart	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A great conclusion to the Wessex Papers trilogy	After just witnessing what they believed was a murder, Fred and Sunday are on the run, taking refuge in Sunday's summer house. What comes to them as a great surprise is that someone else has been hiding there too, Noah Percy. It turns out Noah is afraid of confronting his parents after recently getting expelled for having sex with a teacher, and getting caught on tape too. What Noah doesn't know is that it is all a conspiracy called \\"Operation Time Capsule\\". As Fred, Sunday, and Noah work together they begin to put the pieces together and everything pretty much comes to light. Unfortnately two more surprises are on their way. One: Allison shows up at the summerhouse too. It turns out after Allison found out Sunday was missing she started looking for her and figured Sunday had to be at the summerhouse. Two: The murderer shows up too and threatnes them to give him $200,000 dollars or else. Deperate the four teens go back to school and devise a plan with the help of Mackenzie and Hobson to catch the thieves with their own game. <br />I first got interested in these books after reading the excerpt in Payback: Fingerprints #7, another series I love. I must say this series was no disappointment. Though it had some weird humor it was still satisfying to read. You wish all the characters are real, even Allison! My favorite character has got to be Noah, though Mackenzie is a close second. I recommend everyone to read this trilogy as Daniel Parker's way of writing is perfect in a weird way. Her irony works right with this type of story. A must-read!	2002-07-29
US	43152633	R4K3XNPJL4JKW	0060005521	940939061	Nicola and the Viscount	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A great historical romance	Sixteen-year-old Nicola Sparks, an orphan after her parents both drowned in an accident, is now finally ready for her first London Season. There is one thing that Nicola doesn't have to worry about though, and that is chosing a husband. After attracting the Viscount Lord Sebastian Bartholomew's attention at one of her school performances, she has been invited to his house, and Nicola gets her dream, he has proposed to her. Unfortunately, besides poetry, the two have little conversation, but Nicola is still very sure that this marriage was meant to happen, until the young infruiating Nathaniel Sheridan, the brother of Eleanor, Nicola's best friend, begins questioning why the Viscount truly wants to marry Nicola. Nicola is sure Nathaniel is just saying nonsense, until she begins to pick the pieces of the puzzle up by herself. Soon it isn't just a question of the Viscount's integrity, but who Nicola truly loves as well. This was another wonderful addition to the Avon True Romance series. Meg Cabot has always been a wonderful romance writer for teens and adults and this book is no exception.	2002-07-25
US	43152633	R3PJQ18NL6VOJ5	006440806X	770181399	Trust Falls: The Wessex Papers, Vol. 1	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A weird novel, yet great to read	Wessex Academy, with an annual tuition of 25,000, is where the students are from the world of mansions, platinum cards, and yachts. Sunday Winthrop, Alison Scott, Noah Percy, Winslow Ellis, Hobson Crowe, and Mackenzie Wilde, are the AB's(Alumni Brats), who practically run the school. Then there is the new kid on the block, Fred Wright, who transfered here after his emotional breakup with former girlfriend Diane, whose new boyfriend is no other than Salvatore Viverito, an alumi of Wessex Academy. Fred is out to change the BS in boarding school and make everyone equal. Yeah, these few people have had their problems. Hobson just recently broke his longtime relationship with Alison and now Alison is one big wreck. Mackenzie is scared to death that Alison will find out that she is having a relationship with Hobson. Sunday has been hearing it from longtime friend Allison about why she is hanging out with Fred Wright who is not an AB and Sunday feels very annoyed. But the biggest problem of all is that Noah Percy had sex with a the new teacher, Miss Burke. Soon weird things start happening at Wessex starting with Tony Viverito, no other than Salvatore's brother, getting expelled from Wessex because he had chewing tabacco in his bookbag. The problem is Tony never chews tabacco and all fingers point to Fred Wright who does. Fred knows some conspiracy is going on at Wessex and he and Sunday decide to investigate. What they find out will surprise them both. This book was definitely better than I thought it would be. It was a little wierd but also very funny to read. It'll crack you up, I am sure. The cliffhanger ending makes you want the 2nd book even more!	2002-07-23
US	43152633	RKDO77AT0681B	0060005521	940939061	Nicola and the Viscount	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful regency romance	Sixteen-year-old Nicola Sparks, an orphan after both her parents drowned when she was little, is now ready for her first London Season. The young Nicola is very much ready for her first London Season and there is one thing she doesn't have to worry about and that is chosing a husband. Her choice has already been made: a handsome viscount known to Nicola as the \\"God\\" Lord Sebastian Bartholomew. Nicola is sure that she made the right choice. It was love at first sight and both have the same love of poetry. Things, however, don't go as planned as the few coversations they have had weren't very successful, save the talk of poetry. Nicola still is sure everything will work out until her best friend Eleanor's brother, Nathaniel Sheridan, a recent Oxford graduate, begins to cast doubt on the Viscount's character. Nicola is furious with Nathaniel for saying, what she believes, false things about the Viscount, but as she begins to find out the truth, the Viscount might not be the only problem for Nicola. Her own heart and feelings might be the biggest of them all. I have always been a big fan of Meg Cabot, especially her Princess Diaries series, and this book was no exception. This book has to be my favorite so far in the Avon True Romance series and I recommend every girl who likes a sweet romance to read it. I can't wait for Meg's next Avon True Romance Victoria and the Rouge.	2002-07-23
US	43152633	RSJ1779NJJLVR	0689851790	516343537	Super Edition: Before Gaia	Books	5	11	11	N	N	We finally know what happened "Before Gaia"	A regular day in Gaia Moore's life takes a bizarre turn as she is \\"contacted\\" by Nikolai, a mysterious agent, who used to work for Loki and is offering her the one opportunity to walk down memory lane and find out the whole truth to the Oliver-Katia-Tom love triangle. Gaia couldn't wish for more and runs desperately to all the places Nikolai tells her to go, for more stories of the past... When the story finally begins it is 1983...<br />Tom(Tommy) and Oliver(Olly) are as close as twin brothers can be. Yeah they have their sibling rifts and Tom does envy Oliver for getting into the CIA first and always winning all their combat fights but thing are harmonious between the two. Lately though Oliver has been having problems cracking a code from the \\"Organization\\" a mysterious agency who would do anything for money and guess who cracks it? Tom. The biggest problem though isn't that, it is the fact that they both fall in love with the same Russian girl---Katia, a former journalist, now aspiring singer at the Bitter End NightClub, a girl running from her mysterious past in Russia. (To see the first interactions between Tom and Katia and Oliver and Katia were really cute, so childish) When Oliver finds out that Katia is really in love with Tom, he is outraged and feels betrayed by his twin brother and finds solice in drinking. The thing that pushes Oliver over the top is when Tom takes over his job at the code-breaking department of the CIA. As their misunderstandings grow Oliver feels more betrayed and when a mysterious man from the Organization named Nikolai, offers Oliver help in gettting Katia back, Oliver accepts... Thus all the hurt and betrayal begin until Gaia is born---a new hope---a girl with outstanding powers, whom Tom and Katia hope will finally stop the civil war in the family. There is however one problem with Gaia, whose daughter is she? Tom or Oliver's?<br />This book made some big revelations and its unique style was quite intriging to read. I am so happythat we finally know what happened and who betrayed who. We also know who truly is Gaia's father. A new enemy of Gaia's is also introduce, actrully I'm not sure if he is enemy or foe for he is one of Gaia's closest remaining relatives---a man from Katia's past---the very reason she feld from Russia. This book is a definite must-read. I don't think you will get further installments of Fearless unless you read this book.	2002-07-18
US	43152633	R7SPYNQJ2C8CI	0743444000	966557102	Alone (Fearless, No. 22)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Patience, patience, patience	I have told myself to be patient. Told myself that Francine will somehow bring back the excitement in this series, which has pretty much disappeared since book #20. Unfortunately what I got was some more frustrating story lines. Gaia is still avoiding Ed. Nothing new there. All we hear is how she want to be with Ed but can't(very repetitive) Now she is trying to see who is leaking information about her father to Loki. George, her friend and former CIA agent tells her it is Natasha, her new foster mom. Gaia definitely believes him, there is evidence. But Tatiana, Natasha's daughter is out to prove otherwise. As the two of them work together to uncover the truth, a relationship forms between the two of them and each learns something new about the other(of course we know that this friendship will most likely not last, just like Gaia and Heather's short friendship didn't either) When the traitor is finally revealed you won't believe who it is. It makes you want to scream because it another stupid storyline that Francine is throwing at us once again!<br />Another disappointment was that there was no advance in the Tatiana-Ed-Gaia love triangle. Yeah, Ed has been avoiding Tatiana at all cost so they don't have to discuss the \\"kiss\\" they had in the park. One good part is Ed finally gets to walk without his crutches(Yeah!!), after encouragement from his new physical therapist, Lydia, who is kinda a suspicious character. Still Ed and Gaia didn't even have really much conversation in this book and the most interesting storyline, the love triangle, had little to no mention at all!!!<br />Another total change of character is with Josh(You know characters can't just go from evil to good like this so it is totally frustrating!! It just seems that Francine makes these characters good when she needs them to be good and evil when she needs to kill off a character!!! He has totally changed from the character that killed Sam) Josh has now desperately fallen in love with Heather(UGH!!!!) However Loki wants him to give her the serum that will make her fearless, just like Gaia. Josh of course is undecided on the matter, as is Heather. He fears that once Heather takes the serum she will change to a person he doesn't know, one he doesn't love. Of course bother Josh and Heather make some stupid decisions and Heather does take the serum and the new Heather is very much different....(Why does Heather have to be so jealous of Gaia? COME ON!!!)<br />Lets just say my patience is wearing thin. Francine please end this series soon. Even if I am desperately hooked on this series the last few have dragged on and the 200 pages practically were a waste. Too much the same thing. When I actrully finished the book I thought did I really find out anything new? Isn't it pretty much like 21? Francine PLEASE just put some SENSE into Gaia. Get her and Ed together once and for all, kill Loki PLEASE!!!! Hopefully Fear is a lot better than Alone. It better be or I really will stop reading this series, even if it used to be my favorite series and I still want to know what happens.	2002-07-16
US	43152633	R1KOBJENLJL1J6	0743443993	749732175	Blind (Fearless #21)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Utter frustration!	Gaia is STILL avoiding Ed, knowing that if she gets near to him, Loki, her evil uncle, might just kill him like every other person who ever got close to her. But this time Gaia is taking some action to change her fate. When her old foster father, George, a former CIA agent, comes to Gaia telling her that her that someone close to her father might be leaking information about him to Loki, and the main suspect is Natasha, Gaia decides to stay at her new foster home, and spy on her new family. Thus Gaia begins to set her trap for Loki...<br />Ed still can't figure out why Gaia just walked out of their relationship after the best night of their lives. All he knows is that he has to move on, even if he is still desperately in love with her. He begins spending more time with Tatiana, but the more time he spends with her, the more he thinks she is Gaia. He doesn't LOVE Tatiana, he just LIKES her as a friend, but Tatiana seems to think differently...<br />Heather is getting MORE obsessed with Josh.(UGH!!) But she is still very bothered by what Gaia said about Josh, that he is a KILLER. Of course, Josh comes up with the excuse that he used to date Gaia but then dumped her, and that is why Gaia is saying all this stupid stuff about him. Heather, of course believes him, and when Josh offers her a serum that can make her fearless, just like Gaia, will she accept?<br />Ugh, what can I say? I have been hooked on this series since the beginning but since Sex everything has gone downhill. I wish that Gaia would just get some sense into herself. She DESERVES some happiness here! The ending was quite exciting and I REALLY wish Gaia would just kill Loki once and for all. Even though I desperately love this series, I think the series should come to an end soon so it doesn't turn out to be a drag.	2002-07-11
US	43152633	R22JD7KEHCVM9D	0590010891	37466724	The Phantom Menace (Star Wars Episode I)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The beginning of the Star Wars saga...	Episode I: The Phantom Menace, the prequel to the original Star Wars Trilogy, tells of the beginning of the Sith, Dark Sidious's plan to topple the Republic and create the Dark Empire. The start of his plan begins with the Trade Federation's invasion of the small peaceful planet of Naboo, which Dark Sidious thinks will be very easy to take over, for the ruler is only a very young 14-year-old named Padme Amidala. However he is in for a surprise... When the two Jedi, Qui-Gon Jinn, and his apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, negotiations with the Trade Federation fail and Naboo is taken over by the Trade Federation the two Jedi rescue the young queen and try to escape to Corusanct, hoping the Senate would intervene. However mechanical problems cause them to have to land on Tatooine, a remote planet controled by the Hutts who are gangsters. There the Force brings them to a young boy named Anakin, we know the eventual Darth Vadar. It is herre that Padme and Anakin first meet and we know what happens later... Qui-Gon knows there is something special about the boy and when they are finally able to leave Tatooine he takes him with him to Corusant to have him trained as a Jedi and the long saga of Anakin Skywalker/Darth Vadar begins.  This was a superb beginning to what is to be 3 new movies-novels. I have always loved Patricia C. Wrede's writing style and this didn't disappoint. To see the first interactions with Anakin and Padme was just great. One not to be missed!	2002-07-08
US	43152633	RST8FQXTPDMXQ	0064473376	98224856	Gwyneth and the Thief	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A charming medievel romance	Lady Gwyneth is nothing short of desperate. When her neighbor Baron DeVilliers proposes to marry Gwyneth, even though he doesn't even love her and only wants her family estate Haverleigh, her sick father consents even though Gwyneth hates the man. To save her estate from the Baron, Gwyneth comes up with a plan that involves a particular thief, Gavin, who she met in the woods left to die by his fellow thieve members. Left with not much of a choice, after being abandoned by his fellow family of thieves, Gavin accepts her request to pose as a squire and train the farmers and craftsmen of Haverleigh how to fight. Gavin soon finds that he enjoys this new, different lifestyle, and as Haverleigh is finally secured, he finds himself falling in the love with the determined young Lady Gwyneth. As sparks between the two of them fly, their forbidden romance nearly undoes them both. The only way for their love to survive is to keep it a secret...but can they...for love between a lady and a thief is definitely impossible. Quite the nice medievel novel. I have always been intersted in this genre and this new novel in the Avon True Romance series ranks high on my list as one of my favorites. Can't wait for further installments of this wonderful series.	2002-07-02
US	43152633	R1CICGXM2E98W6	0439148901	735014948	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Patrick Seamus Flaherty, United States Marine Corps	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great depiction of one Marine's experiences in Vietnam	Given a journal to write in by his father, eighteen-year-old Patrick Flaherty, who was one of the few who volunteered for Vietnam, records his experiences as his hill was under seige by the NVA( Northern Vietnamese Army)in Khe Sanh. Patrick writes of a trying time in our nation's history. He writes to his family often, knowing one day it could be his last letter. Known as \\"Mighty Mouse\\" by his fellow Marines, Patrick soon finds out that making friends isn't very easy in a war-zone, you lose them too quickly. The hot, steamy weather of Vietnam doesn't make things easier, as the hills are pounded everyday with mortars and rockets, but at least Patrick is in top physical shape being the star athlete on his football team back in Boston. When finally the Marines are rescued from their seige in Khe Sanh Patrick hopes for better times, but the horrors ahead of him are none that he could imagine. I think this was one of the best My Name Is America if not the best. This book, I felt, was a touch better than the companion diary of Patrick's sister, Molly, Where Have all the Flower's Gone, The Diary of Molly Mackenzie Flaherty. Both are quite well done though.	2002-07-01
US	43152633	RJHN1H68ATQ7O	0345428811	938075605	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	5	0	1	N	N	There is a disturbance in the Force...	Ten years after the events of the Phantom Menace, there are disturbances in the Force. The Republic continues to be corrupt even under the leadership of Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. Now Separatists threaten to tear the Senate apart and start all out war and the Senate is hopelessly divided on the issue of whether to raise an army for battle or keep the peace. Young Senator Padme Amidala, former Queen of the Naboo, has come to Corusant to cast her crucial vote in this matter. After barely escaping an assasination on her life, the Jedi Council sends Obi-Wan Kenobi and his mischievous, but talented apprentice Anakin Skywalker to protect the Senator's life. A decade has passed since Anakin and Padme last crossed paths, but the years have not dimmed Anakin's feelings for the beautiful politicion. After another attempt is made on the Senator's life Obi-Wan Kenobi leaves to find the assasin and what he finds will shake the Jedi Council to its core. Meanwhile, Anakin is given his first mission, to protect the Senator. As he and Padme spend time alone with eachother, at the secluded Naboo lake resort, their fondness for eachother continue to grow in what is a forbidden romance. <br />R.A. Salvatore did a great job writing this book. I have seen the movie and I feel in many ways the book is better than the movie. There is definitely more character development. The romance has more detail to it, and it wasn't that bad to have extra chapters about Shmi Skywalker before she was kidnapped by the Tuskan Raiders, and Padme with her family. Of course seeing the book come alive at the movies is another whole new experience. R.A. Salvatore also did a great job with describing the action scenes too. A great book for all of us Star Wars fans!	2002-06-27
US	43152633	R33R0KB3GEPJVC	0064408213	838865481	Farewell to the Island	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful second book	The year is 1816 and the war between England and the United States is finally over. Mary is now a vibrant young woman at sixteen, not the young girl we first met in ONCE ON THE ISLAND. For the first time in her life Mary is leaving her beloved island of Mackinac and traveling to London to visit her sister Angelique. <BR>While on the steemer, Comfort, Mary meets a young man named James Lindsey who captures her interest. On her arrival in London, Mary finds herself in a society that she has never known. Many surprises are in store for Mary in London, but the biggest of all is the fact that James Lindsey is no other than Lord Lindsey, son of the Duke of Oakbridge. As the two of them grow closer in their fondness for eachother Mary finds she must make a hard decision. Can she give up her hard life on her beloved island for the life of London society with James? Can she give up all the people she loves, including White Hawk, who Mary still has feelings for? A second wonderful novel by Gloria Whelan. I enjoyed this even more than the first one!	2002-06-24
US	43152633	R3P5STH86ZELW8	0064406199	41808690	Once on This Island	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the greatest historical novels ever!	The year is 1812, and the war between the Americans and the British have caused many changes to Mary's home, Mackinac Island and to Mary's family too. When British troops conquer the island, her father, a patroit, refuses to take the oath of allegience to the British army, and leaves the island to join the American army. Her best friend White Hawk,a Indian raised by white men, decides to stay with his tribe and fight for the British. At first things aren't that bad. Taking care of the family farm is hard labor for Mary, her sister Angelique, and brother Jacques but things are still merry. However things start falling apart as Jacques leaves his two sisters and joins the American army, while Angelique falls in love with a British soldier. Enduring many hardships, Mary has only one dream---that one day her family will be reunited and her best friend White Hawk, who she has a crush on, will return. This was a wonderful novel by Gloria Whelan, the first of a trilogy about Mary. I read this in one sitting and I haven't read anything as good as this in awhile, and I really do read a lot! Great work Mrs. Whelan!	2002-06-24
US	43152633	R30WYUQWCZLQFC	0439148898	417011436	Where Have All the Flowers Gone?: the Diary of Molly MacKenzie Flaherty	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Another great Diary	15-year-old Boston native Mollie MacKenzie Flaherty is going through some tough times. The Vietnam War is raging overseas and not one day passes without Mollie thinking about her brother Patrick, who had voluteered to serve in the Marines. There is trouble at home too as the assasinations of Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King Jr. rock the country. Through the four months chronicaling Mollie's life we meet a girl who is trying to keep herself busy and trying everything to help with the war. She finds a job at the VA hospital working to help injured soliders who had just come back from Vietnam. She finds sad but also inspiring stories there. However when the family is rocked with the news that Patrick was injured in the war everyone is nervous and waiting for news. Another pretty good Dear America book. It wasn't exactly the best, lacking something, I'm not sure what. Anyway I recommend everyone to read this book and its companion, the story of Patrick, \\"The Journal of Patrick Seamus Flaherty: U.S. Marine Corps\\"	2002-06-20
US	43152633	R26XX1PHKEN022	1556613849	880152013	Mandie and the Buried Stranger (Mandie, Book 31)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another wonderful Mandie mystery	It is spring break at Misses Heathwood's School for Girls, and fourteen-year-old Mandie can't wait to get home and see her longtime friend Joe Woodward who went off to college after the Christmas holidays. She is expecting to share some great times with him but when they finally meet things are awkward between the two and Mandie suddenly becomes very shy around her longtime friend. Still they have a great time with eachother. The two decide to go see Sallie Sweetwater at the Cherokee school, but on the way there discover a mysterious pile of mica and no one knows where it came from. More mysteriously, the pile disappears the next day. Who could have moved such a big pile of mica? And can this be related to the disappearance of Jacob Smith, the caretaker of Mandie's late father's place or is it related to the disappearance of wagons from three of Mandie's Cherokee relatives? Mandie and her friends are on the mystery again! This wasn't exactly the best Mandie book but good anyway. I wish there were more Mandie books throughout the year. I started reading them when I was 7 and now it has been a few years. I really wish to know the conclusion of Mandie's story.	2002-06-19
US	43152633	R160S0OIKBHPIQ	0590880748	712391239	Destination Unknown (Remnants #2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great 2nd book to the Remnants series	When the world ended, \\"The Mayflower Project\\" gave eighty people the chance for survival. Shot blindly into space the eighty Remnants of the human race have now landed 500 years after the end of the world. Jobs, 2Face, Mo'Steel, Yago, and some others have survived, but many weren't so lucky. Tamara, the pregnant marine sergant, has given birth to a baby mutant. Billy, the kid who stayed awake for all 500 years of their journey is in a coma and insane. Emotions are on high and the remaning people still have no clue where they've landed on. All they know is that the conflicting landscapes can't be true. Can they survive on this strange, new world all alone? This was my favorite Remnants book out of the seven I have read so far. Kept you guessing what was gonna happen next all the time. Some parts were kinda gross but that was just how the author imagined the planet to be. Can't wait to read further installments of Remnants!	2002-06-19
US	43152633	R2NYBI2CGJOFUP	189362210X	32568553	Journey Through Heartsongs	Books	5	5	8	N	N	An inspiration book about life and its many challengs	11-year-old \\"Mattie\\" Stepanek suffers from a rare form of muscular dystrophy, but this diease has not only not weakened him but given him great wisdom beyond his eleven years. Though his beautiful poems of peace, hope, inspiration, and coping with loss, we gain much wisdom too. Though his thoughts we get to grow in spirit in ways we can't imagine. My favorite poem out of this collection was \\"Anniversary Reflections\\" It made me cry because it was so sad to read Mattie's account of the days following his brother, Jamie's, death. Mattie truly has great talent to write movingly and courageously about life, death, love, loss, faith, hope, joy, sadness, and all the feelings life can bring us. He is truly an inspration for all of us.	2002-06-19
US	43152633	R1BSPQ7AN8GV48	0590881949	498283205	Mutation (Remnants, 5)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The struggle continues...	Billy and Mo'Steel have been separated from the rest of the group and are trapped in the basement of what seems to be the ship. There they meet two Remnants, Alberto and his son Kubrick. Kubrick, however, has gone through a strange mutation that makes him into a living, breathing monster or whatever you'd like to call it. The four struggle with another dangerous environment below and find a surprising discovery, Mother.<br />Jobs, 2Face, Yago, and the rest of the Remnants are still trapped on the Constitution and time is running out because the ship is capsizing fast. Not only that but British war ships are attacking them all at the same time. Can Billy, the kid who stayed awake for 500 years, help save them? Can he beat Mother at a mind game that he can't even control?<br />This was another edge of your seat edition ofr Remnants where more weird thing happened that at times were confusing. The switching from node to node made things even more complicated. Still this book overall was pretty good. Can't wait for the rest of the Remnants books.	2002-06-14
US	43152633	RDU18IVWESJZ3	0553487647	11983201	Play (Replica: The Plague Trilogy II)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The second part to the Plague Trilogy	Amy is back from her wild trip into the time of the cave dwellers in which she finds the antidote for her sick mother Nancy, but the plague is still spredding all over the place. Her long-time best friend Tasha now is also stricken witht the plague. When Amy goes to find the mysterious Mr.Devon to see if he could help her travel back in time again, she finds that he like all the other times in the past two years, has mysteriously disappeared once again. Amy soons finds out that the only way to save people from the plague is for her to take another bizarre journey---this time right into the plague ridden human body---where nothing is like it seems and cells are battling eachother. Its going to be another wild ride for Amy to save her friend Tasha and maybe millions of other people. Another great Replica book. Now I can't wait for the conclusion of the Plague Trilogy which like the other should be another great one!	2002-06-11
US	43152633	RG5ESC19326DM	0763614211	897518580	Witch Child	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Emotional telling of a "Witch"	The 1600's are a time of lies and fear. For Mary Newbury it is a time of sadness. Unable to do anything, she watches a grandmother condenmed, tortured, and then finally hanged as a witch. Mary knows her life is in danger too, for the crowd will soon have to find someone new to blame for their troubles, someone like her. When offered passage to America disguised as a Puritan girl, Mary immediately accepted. Taken in by a kind widow, named Martha, Mary finds that her new life isn't that bad, but there is always the danger of people finding out that she is a \\"witch child.\\" When the settlers finally arrive in the New World they make a home in place they name Beluh. Mary secretly makes friends with a Indian boy named Jaybird, but when witch frenzy begins to tear apart her new home Mary finds herself once more tormented. <br />This was one of the best books on witches I have ever read. It was a very emotional book and one to be enjoyed by everyone. I can't wait for the conclusion to Mary's story in Sorceress. The cliffhanger ending makes you want more and more!	2002-06-09
US	43152633	REVG6LRYZQBZD	0385327803	44674115	Daughter of Venice	Books	5	24	26	N	N	The story of a remarkable girl with big dreams	Fourteen-year-old Donata is fortunate to be the daughter of a noble family. However being the daughter of a respective family has its problems for headstrong Donata. She is protected from the outside world and all noble's daughter will not get an education. Being not the oldest daughter, Donata will not marry either, her destiny is to confined in a covent for the rest of her life. But because she has a twin sister Laura, Donata clings onto the hope that her father might find a husband for both of them. When her hopes are dashed, Donata comes up with the plan to see Venice, the Venice outside of her palazzo, before she is shut away forever. Her choice will bring many changes to her family and will alter many people's lives, including her own. <br />This was a wonderful historical fiction book by Donna Jo Napoli seen through the eyes of a remarkable girl with big dreams of the future. I read this book in one sitting and it was way better than I ever dreamed it would be. It illustrates perfectly the hopes and aspirations of a girl who wants to see the outside world---a world she has never known.	2002-06-09
US	43152633	RTYR22I32GZ85	0671788477	713783703	Darkest Hour (The Mediator)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Turning point in this great series!	It's Suze's sixteen summer---her first in sunny California---but instead of relaxing and getting a tan, she's stuck working as a baby-sister at a hotel resort, not to mention the boy she is babysitting, Jack, turns out to be a young, budding mediator or that his older brother Paul does have some boyfriend potential. Things start going from okay to bad when Suze is awakened by Maria de Silva---the ex-finacee of the 150 year old hot ghost that shares Suze's bedroom, Jesse---with a knife to Suze's neck, telling Suze to stop her stepdad, Andy, from digging up Jesse's body from her won backyard. Suze has a good idea that when the body of Jesse is discovered she might lose him forever, but she isn't about to help Maria de Silva. Suze knows, however, Maria de Silva will do anything to stop the digging, even if it does mean killing Suze. As Suze digs deeper into the mystery surprising things happen in a world that Suze can't control, and helping Jesse might even risk certain death to herself, but Suze is ready for the challenge. Wow! What can I say? The best Mediator book yet with revelations at every corner that are more shocking that before. This is definitely a pivatol book in the series and a turning point. The cliffhanger ending makes you want the next book like crazy. Unfortunately Haunted: Mediator #5 isn't coming out until January 2003! I am really going to die waiting!!	2002-06-06
US	43152633	R1WT7P0SVLPAON	0064408108	270230920	Transformation (Water Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great conclusion to a wonderful trilogy!	Nia and Corwin have one common goal---Stop the evil Avatar, Ma'el, before it is too late and he destroys their worlds. Now the two of them are joined as Avatars, working together to stop their one common enemy. Soon they learn that the only way to stop Ma'el is to use a magical sword that lies in the deeps of Atlantis. After a dangerous journey through the seas they finally reach Atlantis only to find out to their utter shock that the sword is nowhere to be found, and all the people of Atlantis have been enslaved by Ma'el. The now once grand city of Atlantis is now nothing but ruins! Will Nia and Corwin be able to stop Ma'el in time before he destroys both their worlds? This trilogy was one of the best I read. Twist and turns everywhere that keep you guessing right up to the end. Another great job for Kara Dalkey! Hopefully she decides to write more fantasy books like this. This trilogy is definitely one of the best books on Atlantis I have ever read!	2002-06-04
US	43152633	RS4SX85PBTLU9	0671787918	669250163	Shadowland (The Mediator)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great beginning to a thrilling series!	Susannah---Suze for short--- Simmon has just moved from her longtime home of New York City to the quiet town of Carmel, California to live with her new family which consists of, unfortunately, three new stepbrothers who Suze has nicknamed Sleepy, Dopey, and Doc. Besides that her new life is actrully pretty cool. That is until she finds a 150 year old hot ghost named Jesse living in her bedroom. You see, Suze is a mediator---a person who guards wayward souls back to their final resting places, wherever that might be. For Suze, this gift she has is more like a curse. But at least this new ghost who is sharing her bedroom is pretty attractive, not like Heather, the crazy ghost at her school who is out to revenge her own suicide. It looks to Suze like alittle talking isn't going to help getting Heather back where she should be...it is time for some action. This was a pretty thrilling beginning to the Mediator series. I didn't really expect Jenny Carroll to write a book like this but I do think this was a pretty good book. Coupled with some humor, and twist and turns that keep you guessing this book is definitely to be read.	2002-06-04
US	43152633	R3I003RWIVWFD4	0671788124	487343424	Reunion (The Mediator, No. 3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The price of popularity	When Gina, Suze's longtime friend from NYC comes to visit her in sunny California, Suze hope to have some fab times. Unfortunately four dead students nicknamed the \\"RLS Angels\\" from Robert Louis-Stevenson High School aren't going to let her. Not only are these four kids the most popular people in the school, they were everything. It turns out that after a wild party the four were heading home when they crashed with Suze's fellow student Micheal Meducci and crashed throught the barriers falling to their deaths. This four headstrong teens aren't about to just let go of that wonderful life before destroying the geek that killed them, Micheal. For Suze it is just another everyday problem of being a Mediator---a person who guides wayward soul back to their final resting place. Unfortunately these four are not your regular ghosts, and they will stop at nothing to get revenge, even if it means killing anyone who stands in their way. Suze finds herself having to pretend to like Micheal so that she can protect him. Suze, however, soons begins to find a deeper side of what happened in that accident, an accident that might not have been an accident at all. But why would Micheal Meducci want any part in killing four people he hardly knew? Nothing right? Think again...<br />This was anothe great edition to the Mediator series. It has so many twists and turns you wouldn't expect and illustrates the dark side of teen popularity and clinques.	2002-06-03
US	43152633	R3602HAJ2L8UZZ	0671787985	750389760	Ninth Key (The Mediator)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another exciting edition to the series	Suze is not your normal sixteen year old girl. She is a mediator---a person who guards wayward souls(ghost)back to where they should be. Of course being a mediator also causes some social problems for Suze. After moving to California, so far for Suze things have been a fab. Even the hottest guy in town, Tad Beaumont, asked her out! Everything couldn't be better. That is until the ghose of a dead woman shows up in the middle of the night and scream for Suze to find a guy named \\"Red\\" and tell him he isn't responsible for her death. Tracking down a murderer is pretty hard but when things lead to \\"Red\\" Beaumont, Tad's dad thing get alittle tricker. After not listening to Father Dominick, a fellow Mediator, who also happens to be Suze's principal, Suze goes all by herself to see Red only to find out he might be a vampire. Things get even crazier as Suze digs deeper into the mystery and finds out about coverups, mysterious disappearances, and a web of deceit.<br />Another good edition to the Mediator series. A lot of unexpected twists and turns and I like Jesse and Suze a lot!	2002-06-01
US	43152633	R19ZN9WZAHG568	0590881957	53399410	Breakdown (Remnants, 6)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The struggle continues...	The Remnants continue their struggle with a world created by Mother, the powerful computer who seems to have human qualities. The few people who have faced Mother have failed miserably, but the Remnants have one hope, Billy, the kid who stayed awake all 500 years of their journey. He is the only one who has been able to creat a bond with her. From Mother, through Billy, the Remnants learn much about the lonely negelected computer, including the fact that she was made by the powerful Shipwrights. Soon the Remnants figure out that Mother has the ability to recreate Earth too but the Remnants know she will ask something in return. Yago, against many people's wishes, makes a deal with Mother to let her delve into his mind and recreate Earth. In return Yago agrees to destroy the Children for Mother, otherwise know as the \\"Blue Meanies\\" A computer generated battle takes place as the projections of Civil War Soliders take on the Blue Meanies. Will the Remnants survive the battle they can't even control?<br />This wasn't one of the best Remnants books and thing definitely got weirder. Some things I felt were a little out of control weird. This book did have some pretty impressive revelations as we get to know the baby's true identity. We also meet 2 new Remnants who have been separated from the rest of the Remnants and held captive by the Children.	2002-05-25
US	43152633	R2QAXOSJGT0VTG	0439165865	608296775	Sondok: Princess of the Moon and Stars (Royal Diaries)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	One of my favorite Royal Diaries	As a Asian-American I was really interested in reading this book about Sondok, Princess of Korea, and it didn't disappoint me. In fact it is one of my favorite Royal Diaries. It tells of 14-year-old Sondok, Princess of Silla, part of North Korea. However times are not well for her kingdom. Her father, King Chinp-yong of Silla, is constantly at war with 2 other kingdoms, Koguryo, and Paekche. The headstrong Sondok feels it is very immature of these three kingdoms to be constantly at war just for supremecy and their different views of three faiths, Shamanism, Buddhism, and Confucianism. For Sondok, as a girl, there are many limitations. She desperatly wants to study atronomy but her old fashioned grandmother refuses to let her. This book, like Lady of Chiao Kuo, shows a girl who lives in a region of civil war and who is smart to come to the rescue of her people. This is one of my favorite Royal Diaries. I recommend all fans of Dear America to read it!	2002-05-10
US	43152633	R2PXMF2UTUMSLN	0439153069	501080766	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Cj Jackson, A Dust Bowl Migrant	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Nice historical on the trials of the Dust Bowl	Thirteen-year-old C.J. Jackson lives in the Oklahoma Panhandle where the Dust Bowl has affected everyone's lives. Years with drought have caused crops to fail and C.J.'s family can hardly keep up. Many of their close friends have already moved on west, to places where they hope there is better opportunites. For C.J.'s family the dust storms that come almost every other day makes things even worse. When C.J.'s Grandpa dies of dust pneumonia the family finally has to leave their farm and move to the San Joaquin Valley in California. As the C.J., his parents, two sister, Olive and Belle, and two brothers, Lester and Dalton travel on Route 66 they face many troubles but are finally rewarded when they reach the rich fields of California. Little do they know the hardships ahead as they find themselves working as migrant workers and scraping for every penny they can get. Will C.J.'s family survive their new environment?	2002-05-08
US	43152633	R204YUOSKJTZ4	0060290307	872007676	Angel on the Square	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An emotional new novel by Gloria Whelan	Twelve-year-old Katya Ivanova has everything anyone would want. She lives in St.Petersburg, Russia with her mother who is a close friend to the Empress Alexandra. Katya knows nothing of the turmoil in Russia and of the troubles of the poor. When her mother is asked to be a lady-in-waiting for Empress Alexandra and the Tsar Katya moves in with them and their four daughters---Olga, Tiatiana, Marie, and Anastasia, who Katya quickly befriends and is better known as Stana. To Katya everyday life is great. She is naive to the outside world of the palace. Little does she know of the pheasants who want to overthrow the Tsar. The only worry in her life is Misha, her cousin, who is one who feels strongly about the revolution. As the years pass Russia enters World War I and the turmoil starts. For young Katya it is very hard to bear seeing how mistreated the Tsar is by his own people, who he thought was loyal. <br />This was another great historical novel by Gloria Whelan. It was very emotional and meant a lot to me. I have always been one interested in Anastasia so I really liked this book.	2002-05-07
US	43152633	R2DRW97G78FD0I	0439148278	454626993	My America: Five Smooth Stones: Hope's Revolutionary War Diary, Book One	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great historical novel	Nine-year-old Hope Penny Potter is finding the Revolutionary War tearing apart her family. Since Christmas her father has been gone for purposes still unknown to her family and now her brother Ethan is accusing her father of being a Tory and abandoning the family. Hope finds little comfort but she does have her best friend Polly who she confides in about her family problems. There is also hope in the family of better times for Hope's mother is expecting a new baby. However their happiness is shattered when one day Ethan runs away from home, most likely looking for his father. As the British press closer and closer the Philadelphia Hope finds that she might have to leave her beloved home too. Will Hope's family ever be reunited again? Or will the Revolutionary War keep her apart.	2002-05-02
US	43152633	RVOVVU4R44BXQ	0439153077	622265918	My America: My Brother's Keeper: Virginia's Civil War Diary, Book One	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great historical novel	During the days leading up to the Battle of Gettysburg, nine year old Virginia Dickens is entrused with the diary of her brother Jed as he and her father go to tend to the family's horses at her uncle's farm. At first there is nothing to write about except her daily visit to cememtary hill. But soon troubles begin as the Confederate Army moves into town. Soon what her father and brother don't want her to see is exactly what the nine year old Ginny experiences---the battle of Gettysburg. Giiny is trapped there and she wonders if her father and brother will ever be able to make it home.	2002-05-02
US	43152633	R31IV4TJWCC7VU	0064473414	592825229	Samantha and the Cowboy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great new historical romance	A few years after the Civil War in a cowboy town of Texas Samantha is desperate to find a way to keep her family alive. The family farm is in danger of collapsing since her father died and they've fallen in debt. Her brother is no use for he is still bitter over his time in the Civil War and refuses to do anything at all to help out the family in the hard times. Samantha suddenly finds herself having to be disguised as a boy just to keep her family alive as she goes to work as a cowboy. There she meets Matthew Hart who is in charge of showing her the ropes. She gets to know Matt and finds that he too has suffered tragedies like her own brother by the war and wants nothing more than to reclaim his life before the incident. She learns his closed mind and hardened heart are territory best left unexplored. However Samantha finds herself falling in love with him and when he finds out that she is actruly a girl he is of course furious but somehow finding himself falling in love with her too. This was a great book in a great new series. I really really enjoyed it!	2002-05-02
US	43152633	R1BV7WJYH4URIE	0064473422	312631199	Belle and the Beau	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great historical novel	Belle is a slave. She lost her mother and all she has is her father. When her father comes up with the idea to flee to Kentucky Belle agrees. But soon the two are separated and Bellw feels very afraid. She might be free, but she is alone and lost. She has nowhere to go until a great family, the Bests, find her at the side of the road and take her in. It turns out the Bests are free people who help in the Underground Railroad. Belle finds herself very attracted to the Best's son Daniel. However she knows it will hardly be right for them to be together for Daniel is engaged to be married.<br />Daniel on the other hand has everything he wants and is destined for greatness. He has a great finacee who is quite the spoiled brat. However he finds himself falling in love with the young poor girl they rescued by the side of the road. Will Belle and Daniel ever be together?	2002-05-02
US	43152633	R2TTNU7FWOBE0M	0064473384	859106028	Anna and the Duke	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great historical novel	Everyone should think Anna Welsley would be satisfied in the position she is in. She is set to inherit all her father's riches and after a glittering performance she is set to marry the Duke Richard Fitzgerald. Anna, of course, is not content. She finds herself having doubts about her feeling for Richard, if she even has any. While her mother plans furiously for her wedding Anna can do nothing but read poems and wait for an arranged marriage. The Duke Richard is set to inherit everything upon his father's death. However when the Lord Fitzgerald is on his deathbed he reveals to Richard that years ago he had had a marriage that produced the true heir to the fortune Ewan McLaughlin, who had been raised in his mother's homeland, Scotland. When Ewan arrives Richard is bitter about his new found half-brother. Anna finds herself falling in love with Ewan but is disturbed for she feels Richard is plotting against Ewan. This was a charming new book set in England!	2002-05-02
US	43152633	R22U0AL9QCPHXW	0439369045	748834076	My America: After The Rain, Virginia's Civil War Diary, Book Two	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Another nice My America	Ten-year-old Virginia Dickens, her father, brother Jed, and Jed's wife Jane Ellen, have left Gettysburg to move to Washington, D.C. There they hope to start a new more prosperous life. Jed hopes to find a nice job but ends up with a low-paying job that he hates. After Ginny's dad gets injured during work the family finds themselves no even being able to send Ginny to school because they need her to work too to make ends meet. So Ginny finds herself having to work as a house servant in a wealthy family. To the Dickens winter seems very bleak and long. The only bright spot is the baby Jed and Jane Ellen are expecting. Finally when the war finally comes to an end and thing seem to be getting better Ginny must face the awful news that her hero President Abraham Lincoln had been assasinated. Ginny learns that life is constantly changing and you have to take both the sweet and the bitter.	2002-04-22
US	43152633	R2JH9O4PGHXIF3	0439369061	998754758	My America: We Are Patriots: Hope's Revolutionary War Diary, Book Two	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful second book about Hope	In this beautiful second book on 10-year-old Hope Penny Potter, the Revolutionary War rages on everyday and brings many conflicts into young Hope's life. Her friend Polly now can't even be with her for her parents are loyalists to the King and Hope is a Patriot. To aviod the British who have occupied her hometown of Phildelphia, Hope flees to Valley Forge, Pennslyvania where George Washington is. Hope worries everyday about her father and brother who have not returned from battle. But when Hope's brother and father return, relief sets in for Hope but not long for she discovers a secret that her father was with the Sons of Liberty and the family would definitely be in danger if anybody found out. I recommend this great book to every My America reader. Hopefully there will be more books on Hope. I really enjoy her!	2002-04-17
US	43152633	R1IW0X306JSGNG	0439244439	768975545	2: My America: Flying Free: Corey's Underground Railroad Diary, Book Two (My America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The continuation of Corey Birdsong's story	Corey and his family, runaway slaves from Kentucky, have finally escaped to freedom in Canada. They have now built a new, hopeful, life in Amherstburg, Canada. In Canada they own their own land, and Corey gets to go to school. However, they still are hoping to help those they left behind, such as Corey's friend Mingo. But, beyond the river in Ohio many slavecatchers still lurk to find runaway slaves and getting Mingo safely over is going to be hard. However Corey comes up with a brilliant plan that will help get Mingo over to freedom. The continuation of Corey's story is another great My America book. I recommend it to everybody!	2002-04-13
US	43152633	R24JRBVARETTFS	0439176875	694541770	The Seventh Tower #6: The Violet Keystone	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The conclusion to a wonderful series	Tal and Milla have been separated, but each have the same goal, stop Sushin for destroying the veil and letting in the shadows from Aenir. Milla Talon Hand, the name given to her for she is carrying the talon of Danir, is leading the Icecarl assult in the castle. However she has been separated from the main troops and the few people she have with her are not going to be enought to stop the Chosen and their Spiritshadows. Just when all else seems to have failed Milla suddenly is able to summon her half of the Violet Keystone and does one of the most powerful magic. But unfortunately she doesn't know how to stop it...but Ebbit, Crow,  Tal's mother Grail arrive just in time to save them. Together they make the journey up to the Violet Tower, otherwise known as the Seventh Tower. On the way they meet Tal, but each of them is one step too late, Sushin has already been there. When they finally see the true side of Sushin it will be something that will shock them all... The conclusion to the Seventh Towers was great. When I first heard this was going to be the last book I was kinda scared to read it, because I had been very disappointed with other series' endings. However this book had a great ending. There would be a few things I would change but I didn't write it and the ending was fine with me!	2002-04-10
US	43152633	R21FV225YVFW3C	0439240735	370608450	Dead Wrong (T*Witches, No. 4)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thrilling revelations in the fourth book	Cam and Alex would never have even imagined they would be in Montana for the long weekend, but that is exactly where they are after Alex receives an email from her old friend Lucinda who is desperatly in need of her help after her other friend Evan gets into trouble. Not is not the only reason they are in Montana either. Alex's old dad Ike has reappeared and is challenging the Barnes for adoption of Alex. So the T*Witches are back on the case. Things don't really start on the right foot either. Evan is definitely hiding something and it appears Thantos has followed them here as well. A mysterious incident that results in Ike's death looks very much like Thantos' doing. What has he in store for the twins? T*Witches #4 Dead Wrong was really really good. Plus we finally have revelations about Ileana and the twins relationship. And yes! She is their relative and her father is someone no one would suspect. I have a pretty good idea and it was just thrilling to read the revelations! An all out great book to add to the series!	2002-04-10
US	43152633	R1QBVKG4UON2O1	0689829353	710499277	The War Within: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A new perspective on the Civil War	Carol Matas' novel \\"The War Within\\" tells of a situation during the Civil War we don't know much about. In Holly Springs, Mississippi 1802, Hannah Green keeps a journal on the accounts of 2 weeks during the Civil War. Her family owns a general store in the small Southern town who is for slavery, but the war has ruined her beloved town and family. Her father and two older brothers have already gone to fight the war for the south and when the Union army occupies her belove town Hannah is furious. Plus her sister Joanna has also fallen in love with Captain Mazer of the Union---the same Union that has split her family. When General Grant issues General Order #11, which commands all Jew to evacute the his territory the Greens are forced to leave their beloved home. It is on this journey that Hannah learns her views on slavery might not be exactly right with the help of Captain Mazer. For the first time she realizes the discrimination her family receives because they are Jew is very similar to the treatment of slaves. As she battles her own war \\"within\\" Hannah begins to realize the true meaning of the War.	2002-03-27
US	43152633	RIHMO06EZY12I	0060297751	546302032	Rowan and the Travelers	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The second fantasy about our unlikely hero, Rowan	After his unlikey heroism in Rowan of Rin, Rowan is still very much the weak boy he once was. However he has more tests in front of him.  When the nomadic tribe, the Travelers, come to their village many of the townspeople are not amused. Just after their arrival a second mysterious threat to his isolated village prompts the humble herd boy introduced in Rowan to gather up all his courage. When the sleeping sickness takes over his village an all that is left standing is Rown and half-traverler-Allun they must work together to find the hidden enemy. At first they suspect the Travelers, but the travelers seem just as puzzled as they are. While attempting to find the travelers he finds himself in the company of Zeel, a hated Zebak invader raised as a Traveler, attempting to enter the fabled Valley of Gold by passing through its only entrance, the ill-reputed Pit of Unrin. He must pass many challenges before he can save his people. Will his courage stand up to the evil forces again?<br />Emily Rodda does it again by making Rowan one of the most unlikely heros of our times!	2002-03-22
US	43152633	RYY86QTC0XFIC	006029776X	845043300	Rowan and the Keeper of the Crystal	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The third thrilling fantasy about the unlikely hero Rowan	For thousands of the year, the fishlike people called the Maris folk have lived peacefully in their land with their mysterious Crystal, which protects them from the neighboring barbarian Zebak. When Rowan's mother is called upon to her ancestral task of choosing then next Keeper of the Crystal the stakes are high. As always, when the Keeper of the Crystal is near death three chosen Candidates come to compete for the next keeper. However on the first day Rowan't mother, Jiller is poisned and falls into a deathlike sleep. Now Rowan finds himself in the poision of Chooser and has the big task ahead of him to find the antidote for his mother's poison out of a old wrinkled rhyme.  Accompanied by the three untrustworthy Candidates, Rowan journeys to the sacred Island to seek the ingredients listed in the rhyme. However gathering the ingrediants means one peril after the other as Rowan as he battles wild beasts and political intrigue. However he has one last test in front of him when he realizes that the chosen Keeper has been bespelled by the Zebak. <BR>Will Rowan be able to get the antidote in time to save his mother? Will he save the Maris from a attack from the Zebak? <br />The third book in this series was another hit for me. As always Rodda manages to evolve a fantasy world right in front of our eyes. I can's wait to read the fourth edition of Rowan, one unlikely hero!	2002-03-22
US	43152633	R28XRXQLQ4NVIP	0439314550	636407827	Conversations with J. K. Rowling	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Wasn't very impressed	As a teen fan of J.K. Rowling I was pretty unimpressed with this book. From first sight I was surprised at how thin this book was and the huge print.( Kinda like a book for a seven-year-old) Then was disappointed me even more was that the initial interview was only about 2/3 of the book. Some of the facts in the interview was interesting but much to me was already known. It seemed to me throughout the entire interview J.K. was controling every little detail she let out. That is her character though. She never really ever revealed any of her plot line in her writing either.<br />The rest of the book was a complete overview of the Harry Potter series. This to me was a waste of time for I have read the books like 3 times each. And reader bewarned...if you haven't read all the Harry Potter books, this section holds a lot of spoilers which might ruin your experience.<br />All and all this book disappointed me very much. I hope someday J.K. decides to write a book about herself because billions of people are very interested in her life.	2002-03-22
US	43152633	R23EQSWZYPYN5C	0743443985	542427173	Sex (Fearless #20)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Emotion player	Well Gaia has finally done it with Ed, the only guy she has ever loved. However she knows that being with Ed is going to be hard. She knows her uncle's hunchmen could be right around the corner. When Ed gets shot at it is the last straw for Gaia and she knows she must make the ultimate sacrafice to make sure Ed doesn't die like all the other people she has ever been close to like Mary and Sam. So Gaia makes the decision and tells Ed that magical night was all a mistake. Ed couldn't be more hurt by what he hears.(Lets just say I was crying a little during this point and a little frustatred with how the storyline was going)He hopes that Gaia is just trying to protect him, like usual, but this time she seems really serious. Gaia on the other hand decides to go to Washington Park to pick a fight or anything to get all the feeling out of her head. There she meets Gen a drug addict just like Mary, but somehow this girl isn't right...<br />This was another emotional roller coaster ride. At some times it was just so frustrating I could have thrown the book across the room. However I am still hopelessly waiting for the next edition called Blind, #22 Alone, and #23 Fear.	2002-03-22
US	43152633	R3SDDQ38R5K3Z2	0064408094	234962539	Reunion (Water Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	2 for 2	16-year-old Corwin's life in Wales is hard. Life isn't very easy when you have to scavage the land everyday searching for you next meal. However Corwin has survived. Even though he never got to know his parents he lives with Fenwyck, a traveling entertainer. However when Fenwyck was killed by the horribly evil King Vortigern, Corwin finds himself running for his life and a wanted person. While in hiding Corwin discovers a shell that is very peculiar. He hope that he can sell it and get a better life but the King's men manage to get it before he can do anything with it. However the shell has left it's mark. He is filled with the beautiful images of a girl. And soon he meets up with her. She turns out to be Nia, a beautiful merymd from the lost city of Atlantis. It turns out they must struggle to get the shell back because it holds the key to both of their lives and also Atlantis.<br />Kara Dalkey is just brilliant. I loved her first Water book and the second is great as well. She is two for two. Can't wait for the conclusion now.	2002-03-20
US	43152633	R25SMVA6GOZPIV	0439240727	344488393	Seeing Is Deceiving (T*Witches)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another super T*Witch book!!	As witches Cam and Alex's power to do magick is becoming more and more powerful as the learn how to use them together. They are having a great time doing magick and helping to even stop a robbery at the mall. However on Conventry Island things aren't going so well. Because of Ileana's impatience Karsh had been kidnapped by Fredo and now Karsh is in the hands of the one person Ileana fears worst---Thantos, the uncle of Cam and Alex who wants to destroy them. If Ileana is careful and lets her impatience rule her again she will walk straigh into Thantos's trap and the twins will be without protection...Meanwhile Cam is having problems of her own. She finds herself growing more distant from her friend Beth everyday after Alex came onto the scene. Plus guess who turns out to be the subsitute teacher?...the person she and Alex caught shoplifting! And it seem this Cecila Webb has cast a spell over Beth and now it looks like Beth is walking straight into a trap. However Cam seems to just keep doing all the wrong things to repair her friendship. When Alex is tricked to go to an all night pary, she suddenly finds herself and Beth in great danger when they have a comfrontation with Thantos. Will Alex have to make the ultimate sacrafice to saver her sister and her best friend Beth?<br />This is by far the best T*Witches book. The next one is pretty good too. Can't wait to read more of this series!!	2002-03-18
US	43152633	RL1B9CJXWHSUY	0439194040	38837816	Mary, Queen of Scots: Queen Without a Country, France 1553 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Another great Royal Diary	11-year-old Mary was only nine months old when she was crowned Queen of Scotland, succeeding her father. However because of many conflicts she is separated from her mother and Scotland to live with the French. To forge an alliance with France, she is bethroled to Francis, the son of King Henry II. Mary is sent then to France to live with her new \\"parents\\" King Henry II and his vicious and jealous Queen Catherine de Medici. It is there that Mary begins her chronicle of her journal. Life there in France is pretty much every day life for Mary. She enjoys going to dances, and playing with her future husband Francis. But she loves hawking the best. However the charming Mary's life is made very difficult by the vicious jealous Queen Catherine de Medici. She finds confort though in Henry's mistress Diane de Poitier who was quite the lady and gave Mary strength and inspiration through good and bad times. <br />This was another ideal great Royal Diary. Like any other Royal Diary it had a part that explained the real history of Mary and it was sad to learn of her tragic ending. Like Francis said he and Mary were really chess pieces on a big chess board and a wrong move could ruin things.	2002-03-18
US	43152633	R2WKYEWH7P3DG7	0439314550	636407827	Conversations with J. K. Rowling	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Kinda disappointed	The first impression I got of this book is how thin it is. That wasn't the biggest one though. Let's just say when I opened it up I found the print to be HUGE. Another thing that disappointed me was from pg. 58 and on it was just an overview of the first 4 Harry Potter books. As a teen fan of Harry Potter and having read them many times I found it quite boring to have about 30 pages of just overview of things I already know. For a new fan of Harry Potter who hasn't read all the books it includes plenty of spoiler so I recommend you read the books first before you actrully read this interview book.<br />This book was split into three parts. The first part was called \\"An interview with J.K. Rowling. As enphasized on the cover this the first and only Authorized Biography of J.K. Rowling and I have found the little tidbids of information J.K. reveals to be disappointing. However that is the nature of J.K.'s character has she never reveals much about her story plotlines either. This first section of the book goes from pg. 11 to 57. It is split into four parts:<BR>1)My family and my childhood<BR>2)My school days<BR>3)My career<BR>4)My career as a writer<BR>These few pages were mostly all that was worth reading for me.<br />Part Two of this book was called \\"J.K. Rowling books\\" It was split into two parts:<BR>1)An overview<BR>2)The fourth book<BR>I recommend again not to read this part if you haven't read all the books yet because it does give out a lot of important storylines and spoiler. Of course it was boring for me because I've read the books many times<br />Part three of the book was just a bibiography and had a page of summery of the first 4 books. All and all this book only had 50 pages of HUGE print worth reading and I finished it in 40 minutes. As an teen fan of J.K. Rowling's I hope she writes a biography that tells more about her life than this after she finishes her seven Harry Potter books.	2002-03-18
US	43152633	R13TRW1I21WHEH	0590881930	584528530	Nowhere Land (Remnants #4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The last of us...	500 years from home and the last of us, the Remnants have finally found out their true environment they landed on before Mother changed everything for them. This new environment might be even more dangerous than the last...a land full of pink blubbery blimps, riders, and slimy sucker that look like eels. It is an ocean environment with many surprises. The Remnants must bind together to defeat their environment. But right now the environment is winning and the Remnants aren't exactly working together. There are the so called mutants: 2Face, Edward, Billy Weir, and Tamara's baby, Then there is their leader Wylson( however even that isn't set. The presidents son Yago wants nothing more than to be in charge of things.) Emotions are all on high and this small group of humans, the last of our kind, are falling apart. There are inner battles...the one most dangerous between the mutant baby and Billy Weir. There is something about Billy that makes the baby on edge. Then there is the battle for power between Yago and Wylson. All and all the Remnats will have to work together to their best of ability to defeat the environment not meant for them.	2002-03-16
US	43152633	R197MWTQTKDSO2	0759640181	242049754	Legally Blonde	Books	5	53	59	N	N	Elle Woods rocks!	Nobody in the world could have dreamed that Elle Woods would be going to Stanford Law School. Come on! She's Miss June on the school calendar, homecoming queen, and big glamor girl Barbie. However when her long time boyfriend Warner breaks up with her because he needs a girlfriend that is more &quot;serious&quot; and can help him become president Elle decides she is going to prove herself very serious and follows Warner to law school. However from the first day Elle can tell Law School isn't really the place for a blonde. Plus she finds out that this totally unstylish, super serious looking Sarah is now engaged to Warner. However when things finally settle down Elle begins to find that law school isn't so bad. When she takes on the job as summer intern for Christoper Miles she finds that she is beginning to forget Warner. Now her new focus in life is this case about 23 year old Brooke Vandemark who is accused of murdering her 73 year old husband Heyworth Vandemark. It seems the only witness of the crime is Heyworth's 24 year old daughter Chutney. In the end Elle comes through with a trick any Cosmo girl would know to solve the case!<br />I absoulety love this book!! Even though I aint blonde it was still very funny for me! I have seen the movie too and I just have to say I love them both.	2002-03-14
US	43152633	R3GDS6HNU9LYT	0689828276	146939259	True Believer (Make Lemonade Trilogy (Hardcover))	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Sequel	At 15, LaVaughn already knows and has experienced a lot of all the bad things that teens might experience. Since Make Lemonade her life has changed. Much not for the better. She really misses babysitting for Jeremy and Jilly and can't seem to be able to communicate with her friends Myrtle and Annie anymore. Ever since they joined that church club LaVaughn finds that she is finding very little common ground with her long time friends. Plus Jody has moved back. She never really noticed how hot he was but now it seems she can't even stop thinking about him for a minute. Her life is consumed with images of him. He seems to have some interest in her but not really. All these problems have really hurt LaVaughn and it shows in her grades. If she doesn't get it together soon her collegde hopes might just be over. The only resource LaVaughn can go to is her new nursing job helping kids who are really sick. Just when things seem to be getting better LaVaughn sees Jody doing something that seriously challenges her every belief. It will push her to her limits.<br />I really liked this book. I think it was a really big emotional roller coaster. It started out kinda slow but boy did it heat up. I can't wait for the conclusion to the Make Lemonade Trilogy!	2002-03-12
US	43152633	R179LPYUX16WN6	0060294671	953660472	Princess in Love (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 3)	Books	5	45	49	N	N	Loved It!!	15-year-old Princess (New York teenager) Mia Thermopolis is back once more in her third hilirous diary of her life! During this time in her teenage life Mia has got everything anybody would want! Shes got a boyfriend, Kenny, fame, and on top of that Princess of Genovia! So you would think Mia would be pretty happy right? WRONG! Kenny is definitely NOT the right guy for her. Micheal, Lily's brother, is the one she has always wanted. However everything seems to go wrong and now she is trying to aviod further smooches with Kenny. And now Micheal is going out with somebody who is definitely more intelligent that Mia and most likely can clone fruit flies. On top of that her mother is now pregnant with her stepfather's baby. Oh yeah, did we mention that Mia's stepfather is also her Algebra teacher? And guess who has been failing algebra for a long time...? Plus, Mia has got the added pressure of preparing a speech for her nerve-wracking entree into the Genovian society. Things aren't looking to good for her. Maybe Lily can turn things around when they hatch a plan to get Micheal back.<br />After reading the first two diaries Mia wrote I couldn't wait for this one and it didn't disappoint me! Mia is still her old self with her sassy and funny humor which makes you laugh out loud. This book also had some emotional parts in it too which grips you. All and all a great book! It definitely lived up to my expectations. However I heard that this will be the last of Mia. I really hope that isn't true though. I recommend this book to all teens who love to have a laugh of two!	2002-03-08
US	43152633	RGC0FI3760P54	0060288132	605226542	On the Bright Side, I'm Now the Girlfriend of a Sex God: Further Confessions of Georgia Nicolson	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Unfortunately not as good as the first	Georgia is your typical 14-year-old Brit teen growing up with parents(Vati and Mutti)she can't stand, a cat named Angus(whose the size of a small horse), and a sister named Libby...who might have peeed in Georgia's room. In her self written diary we learn of the ongoing diaster of Georgia's life and all her misadventures.<br />Taking straight off from Angus, Thongs and Full-frontal snogging, Georgia is in havoc with her parents on the thought that they might be moving to Kiwi-a-gogo land(Better known as New Zealand) right after she manages to start dating the Sex God Robbie. Good thing for Georgia through more of her misadventures she finally pulls out of the havoc and ends up not going to New Zealand. Just when things seem right for once in Georgia's life Robbie writes a note telling her she is too young for him! TOO YOUNG! Plus he tells her she would be better off with a guy Georgia calls Dave the Laugh! Georgia can't believe it and hatches a plan called Operation Elasticity or also known as Operation Red Herring to get Robbie back. and..the Red Herring just happens to be Dave the Laugh. Can Georgia get Robbie back and survive another year in her wild life?<br />I was really looking forward to this book after I loved Angus. However I am disappointed to say that I didn't like it as much as Angus. I found all the old character to be very enjoyable but I found Georgia in this book to have lost some of her spark and at times is really very self-centered and very inconsiderated of her best friend Jas. She is just flat out mean. However I stil anticipated futher adventures in her life in the next book coming out in May 2002 in the U.S. called Knocked Out by My Nunga-Nungas. It is already out in Britain. Hey but the American addition will have another fun glossary to read of all the word we American chums don't know about.	2002-03-03
US	43152633	R17H01TN5054YJ	006000620X	952711335	Payback (Fingerprints No. 7)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Great thrilling ending to a great series	Taking straight off from the last book when Rae got the shock of her life that her best friend Yana was really the one after her all this time, it seems ideal that that she is having a normal life again with Yana now in prison. She can get through her high school years like a normal teen and get over her awkward fingerprint reading ability. And she can finally be with Anthony...However when Aiden shows up and tells Rae that Yana had escaped from prison her life is turned upside down all over again. Rae knows that Yana is her biggest threat to happiness but is Yana after Rae? Or after the agency? <br />I really liked the conclusion to the great Fingerprints series. I wish though that there were more books because it truly is a good series and there were more storyline. However this is an ideal ending!	2002-03-02
US	43152633	R3G3BUOMXYESBM	0553487639	399973378	Rewind (Replica: The Plague Trilogy I)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thrilling	A strange bacteria is spreading throught the world. Nobody knows what it is. Since Amy is a clone she is immune to the virus but others aren't so lucky...including her mother. When her mother gets sick Amy vows to find a cure. She meets up with Mr. Devon a person from the past. He explains to Amy that the virus came from the dinosaur and caveman times. It has been dormant so far and nobody knows why it became active. Mr. Devon wants a sample of Amy's bone marrow to see if he can find a cure...but it seems Andy has a better idea...an idea that involves traveling back in time...<br />This was another pretty good Replica. Can't wait for the next part in this trilogy.	2002-02-25
US	43152633	R1N4P8IUW1R9IT	0553487639	399973378	Rewind (Replica: The Plague Trilogy I)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another pretty good Replica	No one knows what is causing the mysterious plague to spread from person to person. However Amy is immune to disease with her perfect immune system. The rest of the world isn't so lucky. When her mother catches the disease Amy vows to find the cure. When the mysterious Mr. Devon shows up, he informs Amy that his theory is that this disease orginated millions of years ago, in the age of the dinosaurs and cavemen. It has been dormant so far...until now. Mr. Devon want a sample of Amy's bone marrow to see if he can find a cure from Amy's perfect immune system. However Andy seems to have a better plan...a plan that involves going back in time to when the disease orginated...the time of the dinosaurs and caveman!<br />This was another great Replica. Can't wait for the next part in this trilogy!	2002-02-20
US	43152633	R1BD6A1JOT1SGA	0439215846	929342930	Ghosts Don't Ride Wild Horses (The Adventures of the Bailey School Kids, #44)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Coyote Pete against Blackheart Eddie!!	When Liza, Melody, Howie, and Eddie went with the rest of their class to an old abandoned ghost town now made into a recreation they never had any idea of their further adventures with strange adults. However it seems that this one pale looking cowboy is definitely up to no good. It turns out his name is Coyote Pete...and wait till you hear the legend...it turns out Coyote Pete had caught the gold fever, but he was one unlucky guy and couldn't find any gold. When one of his best friends did, Coyote Pete couldn't resist the temptation to steal the gold from his friend. However his plan was uncovered by Blackheart Eddie, a red haired boy who always like to play tricks on everybody. Sounds familiar? A lot like our own Eddie? Well it turns out Blackheart Eddie spooked the horses and just when Coyote Pete was about to get the gold he was trampled by a stampede of horses. It turns out that the ghost of Coyote Pete has been lurking throught the mountains in search of Blackheart Eddie since... It doesn't look good for our Eddie friend cause Coyote Pete doesn't seem very friendly to him. Can Liza, Melody, and Howie save Eddie from his bad fate?<br />This is a great breakthrough for young children who are just starting to read chapter books. This were my first chapter books and I have mostly always enjoyed them through my years. Now I am much older and I find these books still very entertaining at times. A great books for young kids just reading chapter books and it has great pictures too!	2002-02-18
US	43152633	R1KPPSX855VQGX	0590511416	178284881	A Time For Courage: The Suffragette Diary of Kathleen Bowen, Washington, D.C. 1917 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Another good Dear America	As War rages on in Europe in 1917 Kathleen \\"Cat\\" Bowen knows there is another big fight to finish at home. Her mother, sister, aunt, and many other women around her have all become suffragists to the disapproval of many men including Cat's uncle and her father. Cat and her cousin Alma want to join the picket lines but they are too young. The excitement builds as the picket lines have lasted more than a week and it seems there might be hope in the horizon! News reaches far out of the picket lines in Washington D.C. and many women from all over the United States have come to participate in the fight for the right to vote. On the homefront as the United States gets ready for war Cat sees the changes at home too as women take a much more active role in the society such as her cousin Alma who helps with the Red Cross over in Europe after running away from home and her problems . However Cat suffers a blow with the unexpected arrest of her mother. Can Cat survive more things to come?	2002-02-15
US	43152633	R3CV7A6EH0VFGD	0064408086	124620826	Ascension (Water Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	An undersea legend comes alive!	The legend of Atlantis comes alive in the 3 part Water Trilogy. We again can read about the exotic, beautiful, and peaceful undersea world. 16 year-old Nia has dreamed of nothing more that to become an Avatar in her home, the city of Atlantis. Avanters and the ancestor alien race called the Farworlders rule alongside one another in the undersea world. Nia, a mermyd of the aristocratic Bluefin clan, finally has her chance when a member of the Council steps down. Nia feels that she would definitely be chosen to represent her clan in the trials. body. Nia's dream is shattered however  when her grandfather passes over her and chooses a cousin, Garun, to represent their clan in the trials. Her world further falls apart when the object of her affection, Cephan, is picked to represent his clan in the trials. However Nia learns that Atlantis has dark secrets too when Cephan shows her a person who should not exist at all and Nia finally begins to piece together things about herself. . . Can she find out all of the truth in time to save her beloved Atlantis? Nia's struggle with feelings of betrayal, disappointment, and budding romance are realistically depicted. I can't wait to read the next book in this Trilogy.	2002-02-06
US	43152633	R260HLS6Y0SNEU	0689823797	159900463	Dear Ellen Bee: A Civil War Scrapbook of Two Union Spies	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Historical Novel on the Civil War	Liza, a freed slave, hates having her life all planned out for her. She thanks Miss Bet for freeing her but she doesn't want Miss Bet to plan her life for her. After returning from school in Phildelphia and after getting married to a free black call Wilson she finally gets to live her own life. So when Miss Bet comes up to her to plee for her help in the fight against the Rebels in Richmond she is hesitant. Working at the rebel's president's house is going to be one hard thing for Liza to do. However her decision is finally made up when she sees how the Rebels treat her husband Wilson. When he finally escapes to the North and joins the Union army Liza begins her spying in the President's Residence. Through secret codes and letters she and Miss Bet use the code name Ellen Bee to communicate.<br />Written in diary from with drawing and scrapes from hear and there this book was really a very good book that gave great insight into the minds of two Union spies. I recommend anyone who likes this book to read the Dear America Series which is also historical novels written in diary form about different girl's lives in different parts of history.	2002-02-04
US	43152633	R1Q085DLQSJH0W	0553486853	830931898	Secret Clique (Replica 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another great Replica	Amy Chander is no regular girl. In fact, she is a clone and her powers are shared with eleven other identical clones just like her. So when students start disappearing from Parkside Middle School and other mysterious things happens, such as her boyfriend Eric being stocked, Amy decides to check things out. Through her investigation Amy begins to suspect Melissa, a girl who had just come back from the hospital after a bad car accident, who is also the top leader of the popular clique at school. To find out to truth Amy decides to get into the clique...however it causes bad feelings between her and her best friend Tasha. Can Amy repair her friendship and figure out whats happening at school before something else strange happens? Another great replica book! I recommed everybody to read it!	2002-02-01
US	43152633	R2H6HQD58IPT1F	0786808012	442293804	Artemis Fowl	Books	5	1	1	N	N	5 stars but far from Harry Potter status	Ok, I read this book because I heard from various articles that this was the next big thing after Harry Potter and all fans of Harry should get this book and read it. Well, I think that this book was really very well written and had great imagination and magic in it...but it doesn't measure up to Harry Potter. I didn't feel the need to read on with this book as I did with Harry. Plus the plot lines are definitely very different. In this book 12 year old Artemis Fowl is a so called child genius. He and his sidekick/bodyguard Butler hatch a genius plan to steal some fairy gold so they can restore the Fowl dynasty. Well, Artemis made one big mistake by capturing Holly Short an LEP officer. Thus starts the battle of brains between the fairies and Artemis. Magic is throughout this book and I found the end to be very exciting and suspensful. I can't wait for Artemis Fowl: The Artic Incident...but this book did not measure up to Harry Potter. Even though it had great magic in this book the explanation for that magic at the end was kinda not what I expected. I wanted something much more creative. Something the so called genius Artemis would think up.	2002-01-28
US	43152633	R25YBB3WSNQ8JM	0064472272	46574095	Angus, Thongs and Full-Frontal Snogging: Confessions of Georgia Nicolson (Confessions of Georgia Nicolson, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book for Teens	Georgia Nicolson is one sassy British teen. In her self-written diary Georgia records one school year in her crazy teen years. <br />You can say that Georgia really thinks her family is one crazy bunch. She thinks her father has the mentality of a teletubby and her mother isn't great either. And...oh yeah that little sister of hers that might have peed in her room. Last but not least Georgia also owns a cat named Angus that seems to have some Scottish Wildcat in him and sometimes hears the call of the wild and manages to wreck the house! Hilirous!<br />Her family isn't all of Georgia's problems. It seems that the \\"Sex God\\" Robby just doesn't seem to have a interest in her. And since she aint ever been on a date Georgia and her best friend Jas try to do some dating with numerous older school guys which turns out to be an all out diaster! A great book on the problems of us teens! All out hilirous! Georgia is one bad teen but she has a good side too. I can't wait to read her next book!	2002-01-26
US	43152633	R3OBEMNEH8NXV4	0312272243	650668968	J. K. Rowling: The Wizard Behind Harry Potter	Books	2	12	14	N	N	Her life isn't all about one series	When I had gotten this book, I was excitied on the prospects of getting to know J.K. Rowling's life better. Her childhood, motherhood, and other things interesting in her life besides Harry Potter. However what I got was not at all what I wanted...actrully exactly the opposite. Though it did have some parts on her childhood the things were very vague and gave you hardly any information. Half of this book was on Harry, and practically a lot of info in this book everybody already knows. It seems all J.K. ever really accomplished in her life were the Harry Potter books. The only reason I gave this book 2 stars is because it was informative on what J.K. is going to name her future Harry Potter books and some plot lines to number 5.	2002-01-24
US	43152633	R1CCFZ6XAWWI7T	0743443977	790626015	Twins (Fearless 19)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One for the Ed/Gaia fans!!	As we know in Love #18 Gaia was captured by her sick uncle Loki. He, the sick dude that he is, manipulates Gaia to think that her father, Tom, injected a substance in her that caused her not to have her fear gene, and that she was natrully born with fear. Loki says he can help her feal fear again. Gaia is hesitant, as deep inside her a part in her is terrifed of feeling fear, but with the further manipulations of Loki she agrees. Gaia doesn't know though that Loki also took a blood sample of her. Good thing for Gaia her father's me come to rescue her but Loki escapes with her blood sample. Gaia is placed in a new parents home but she is in horrible shape as she is buring with fever and experiencing hallucinations. However all Gaia is thinking about is being with Ed. She tries to get to his apartment, and all that keeps her going is the secret feelings for him that she has developed over time and had been hidden in her heart for so long.<BR>Ed on the other hand is worried sick about Gaia. He fears the worst, that Gaia is dead. However he more than surprised to see Gaia at his doorstep and immediately takes her in as she is raging with fever and hallucinating. That is when they learn that it turns out the injection was meant to test Gaia's actual ability to not feel fear by giving her temporary schizophrenia. My favorite part of this story was at the end when Ed's life was put in danger and Gaia finally shows her true feeling for Ed!! Ed/Gaia fans can't miss this one! It was sooooo great! I loved it! And the cliffhanger ending makes you want the next book even more and yeah the back cover of this book is really interesting!!	2002-01-24
US	43152633	R2BCPG438NBHX5	0439112087	671922684	My America: Our Strange New Land,  Elizabeth's Jamestown Colony Diary, Book One	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Great My America!	In 1609, nine year old Elizabeth Barker's family sails from England to Jamestown, Virginia, establishing America's first English colony. In her diary, Elizabeth explains the hardships of daily life and the happiness of family. However she is also sad because her twin brother Caleb was left in England because he had bad lungs. Elizabeth and her best friend Jessie have fun and adventures in this new strange land. They befriend the Indian princess Pocahontas. Howeveer soon Elizabeth realizes life isn't all going to be great, as her family faces scarce fook, illness, even death. However Elizabeth is determined to make a new home in this strange new land.	2002-01-21
US	43152633	R2IENQDNASQK0D	0152026592	946825317	Beware, Princess Elizabeth: A Young Royals Book	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A New View of Princess Elizabeth	I was glad to read a different view on Princess Elizabeth's life. This book focuses on Elizabeth's life after her father's death until she becomes queen. The young princess has to endure much such as spies all around her. The young princess knows she has slim hopes of ever being able to rein, being third in line for the succession of the throne. However Elizabeth proves everybody wrong by not only surviving her brother Edward's rule but also her evil sister Mary's rule and finally becomes queen. However the way to the throne was far from easy for Elizabeth. She had to endure the conspiraces after her dear brother's death and the execution of Lady Jane Grey, the queen of nine days, and she had to endure the stay in the Tower, locked away by Mary, who thinks she is going to try to take over the throne. Mary's spies are never far from Elizabeth and she has to live a life of danger everyday. Elizabeth knows, one day may be her last, if Mary doesn't trust her loyalty.<br />Caroyln Meyer succeded again in writing another great historical novel. I really like this book because it gave a different perspective into Elizabeth's life and how hard it was for her just to stay alive, and living each day with fear of execution. I highly recommend you read the companion to this book about Elizabeth's sister, Mary Tudor. The book is called &quot;Mary, Bloody Mary.	2002-01-18
US	43152633	R2TQ7ZUNXS4DH1	0380814021	287069968	The Princess Diaries	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Finally a NORMAL princess.	I have read many princess books. All focused on things that were what princesses experienced but not us normal people. Finally after I read The Princess Diaries I found a princess that was pretty much like us. A normal teen. Mia Thermopolis has many of the same problems we experience when we get into those wild and crazy teen years. She has to deal with her changing body, her growing height(5'9), having a failing grade in Algebra, and boys. For Mia all this is pretty overwelming, and then she learns that her mother is dating her Algebra teacher! OH NO!! If that isn't enough her dad just happens to mention to Mia that she is the only heir to a small european country called Genovia. Worse it turns out now that she has to take princess lessons from Grandmere! Can princess Mia still remain normal and just be able to get through her teen years the way she wants to? <br />I really enjoyed this book. I loved Mia's sassiness and her humor. I highly recommend people to read Princess Diaries II Princess in the Spotlight and Princess Diaries III Princess in Love!!	2002-01-14
US	43152633	R3TTTG4TMIDKVF	1572492066	882917118	Freedom Calls : Journey of a Slave Girl	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Based on True Events!	Louisa, 15, is a slave in 1848 working on a plantation in Washington D.C. She is a slave on loan and the teen makes a journey daily back and forth from the mistresses house and the Senator's house. On day she overhears a man talking to her neighbor about a ship that will bring her to freedom.  With the assistance of Abby, her abolitionist friend she is able to escape from the plantation and get on board the Pearl, a ship which will carry her and others to freedom. However, within hours the ship is captured and Louisa's hopes of freedom seem done. However strong-willed Louisa isn't going to let that happen. She manages to escape again and once again runs to her best friend Abby for help. However Abby has got her own problems too. Her father, Gamaliel Bailey, a son of a Methodist minister writes a anti-slavery newspaper and the irratated citizens are blaming him for getting the slavery issue brought up again. Hiding in Abby's room for weeks Louisa finally decides to take a daring journey to freedom. Will she make it? What will her new life be like?<br />Though this book focuses on Louisa it also details Abby's lifestyle as the daugter of an abolitionist.<BR>Based on the true story of the capture of the Pearl in which 76 slaves attempted to escape to freedom Freedom Calls : Journey of a Slave Girl truly gives you new insight into the Civil times and the internal and external conflicts of that time. It also teaches that friendship is a loving bond. You can tell this book was well researched as the details were very descriptive. Though Louisa is fictional she could very well be real. This is a great book for researching that time period! I recommend all people to read this gripping new book, especially girls and fans of Dear America!	2002-01-08
US	43152633	RVK4PNZPJ214X	0064472833	971555919	Revelations (Fingerprints, Book 6)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Revelations	Rae Voight is finally at peace. Steve Mercer is finally dead and it seems that her world can return to normacy. She can get back with her old boyfriend, Marcus and maybe even repair her friendship with Lea. She can put behind Anthony and Yana, those two who crushed her in a way that she will never forget. However all changes when Yana comes to her on the verge of a breakdown and needing help. It turns out that Yana's father wants to send her to the mental hospital. Rae doesn't know if she can put all the hurt that Yana caused but she definitely has to help because she knows how it feels like to be put in a mental hospital when you really don't need to. Just around this time strange things start happening that Rae can't ignore, such as her mother's photos appearing on the lockers and strange visions in her head. If Rae still ignores all the signs she might put her life in danger again as the threat has not passed because Anthony has made a startling discovery...<br />This was one of the best books in the Fingerprints series so far. The little surprise ending was great too. Things have definitely heated up and I can't wait for Payback the conclusion of this series!	2002-01-04
US	43152633	R1EBZFMS2G06D4	043930606X	266916709	The Secrets of Droon #13: The Mask of Maliban	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another thrilling book in the Droon series!	Move over Lord Sparr! There is a new bad guy in town and it just turns out to be Prince Maliban the ruler of turtle city called Tortu. Eric, Julie, Neal, and Keeah have a whole new set of problems to deal with now since Hob, the magic mask maker, has escaped from prison and is up to no good. To stop him, Eric, Julie, and Neal must travel to the city of Tortu and confront him and Prince Maliban. It just so happens that Hobs is crafting a new mask for Prince Maliban and the mask will give Maliban power over all of Droon. It definitely sounds like something Lord Sparr might do to take over Droon. And...doesn't it seem weird that Lord Sparr has disappeared?? Could he have secret connections to Prince Maliban or worse is he Prince Maliban himself?? Read this 13th Droon book to find out!!!<br />I loved this new Droon book. It has a lot of excitment like all Droon books have. Can't wait for 14! Comes out in January 2002!	2001-12-13
US	43152633	R26Y8M1YDXUGRF	0553487493	773229004	Virtual Amy (Replica 21)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Suspense around every corner	Strange things have been happening and Amy fears that the organization is monitering her every move. Well, that is what Andy told. He said that they had had a chip installed in their brains. However Andy has now disappeared. Can Amy find a way to hide from the organization before they capture her too? Well, it seems that life and death may lie in a computer game. A game in which Amy can download her consiousness. This game is one dangerous game with twists and turns at every corner and beast lurking within. Amy suspects somethings up with this computer game in real life too. She isn't about to let that happen! Can Amy terminate the computer game in time? Because if she doesn't her life will be in danger because whoever is doing this has sinister intentions! Read to find out!	2001-12-11
US	43152633	R3ANSVDUNPT59N	0060294655	287069968	Princess in the Spotlight (The Princess Diaries, Vol. 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Sequel!!	Fifteen-year-old Mia Thermopolis is just trying to stay normal...like she ever will be again. In this contiunation of her last diary Mia is just settling down from the aftershocks of getting the news that she is the lone heir to the throne of Genovia, a small European country. However she isn't done with shocks yet. (...)<br />The second diary of Mia was another hit for me and should be for anyone who liked the first one. However I think the first one was just a tiny bit better than this one! I am just really attracted to Mia's sassy humor and all the normal teenage problems she gets. (Such as boys, her changing body, popularity, and school) Another great diary from Mia. Can't wait for her next one! Hope she and Micheal get together:)	2001-12-08
US	43152633	R3O30YATHPPT9I	0439188954	660857675	As Far As I Can See: Meg's Diary, st Louis to the Kansas Territory, 1856 (My America)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Courage and Strength of A Young Girl Comes Alive!	During 1856 in St. Louis her mother and sister fall ill with the cholera epidemic, which has spread widely in Missouri , nine-year-old Meg and her brother Preston are sent to live with relatives in the praire lands of Kansas, until the epidemic passes. In her diary Meg describes the dangerous journey they have to take to get to Kansas and when they finally get their she and her brother Preston must adjust to the rugged lifestyle which is much different from St. Louis with their everyday chores. This was a great story about how a young girl braved her new lifestyle and someday wishes to be reunited with her family. I highly recommend Dear America fans to read this great new book in the My America series. I can't wait for the conclusion of Meg's story in her next diary!	2001-12-05
US	43152633	R9GIHAYS5I7MG	0439333385	82999373	Swamp Monsters Don't Chase Wild Turkeys (The Adventures of the Bailey School Kids)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Entertaining but getting old, predictable	Once again the Baily School Kids Melody, Eddie, Howie, and Liza have found that they have a pretty wierd adult in Baily City, and it just turns out to be their ecology project coordinator. Mr. Bunyip is definitely strange. He says he comes from Australia and he came to the United States because people were overcrowding his space. Plus he chases wild turkeys!! Melody knows somethings up again so she does some research and comes up with the conclusion that Mr. Bunyip is a swamp monster. Well, once again that Baily School Kids are out to save Baily City and this time in a ecological way too by cleaning Swamp Dread! However will cleaning be the only way to drive out Mr. Bunyip? Read to find out!!!<br />These Baily School Kids books are quite entertaining and still give me a few laughs. However these books are definitely getting more predictable and the plot lines are practically the same in all the books with just different monsters. I have been reading these books for 4 years and I still find them to be entertaining at times but I usually only read them if I have a lot of spare time. To sum it up: Still not a bad read for a cold dreary day!!! Especially would be good for little kids cause I think part of the reason I am not that interested in them anymore is because I am much older now!	2001-12-03
US	43152633	R80FX82BQZBTB	1584850264	714778885	Changes For Kit (American Girl (Quality)) (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Conclusion to Kit's Depression Stories!	In Changes for Kit, Kit outgrows her old red coat she got for a Christmas present and her friends and family make her a new one with old materials that came from their own clothe. Kit, Stirling, and Ruthie decide to donate Kit's old coat to the hobo jungle where there were a lot of children who were cold and hungry. However when they get to the jungle they learn from the few remaining hoboes that most of the families had gone to the soup kitchen for the winter months. So Kit, Stirling, and Ruthie continue their journey to the soup kitchen. The children are all alarmed when they see the poor condition the children at the soup kitchen are in. Kit sees many children who need coats and many who need shoes. She feels very helpless when all she can donate is ONE winter coat. <br />Meanwhile, back at home her parents get the news that Uncle Hendrick broke his wrist and ankle and is coming to live with them accompanied by his dog Inky. Kit couldn't be more annoyed that mean and crabby Uncle is coming again, and guess whose job it is to look after him? Kit's. She hates how her uncle make her write letters to the newpaper editors and complain about the president and his programs which Kit knows has helped her family get through the hard times. Such as her brother Charlie who worked in the CCC and earned money for the family. However Kit learns from Uncle Hendrick too! She could write a letter about all those kids who need clothing and shelter in the soup kitchen! So she, Ruthie, and Stirling go to the soup kitchen and took pictures of the poor condition the children were in. However Kit knows that since she isn't rich and doesn't have a reputation like Uncle Hendrick she probably won't get her article printed. Well, is her family and Uncle Hendrick in for a surprise when they recieve the paper one morning. Not only are they surprised but Kit's letter affects the whole city of Cinncinati! <br />The conclusion to Kit's story was another great one in the American Girl's Collection. I can't wait for the next girl's story to come out! They are really beautiful books with their pictures and the Peek into the Past. Lastly I have to say Hooray for Kit!!!	2001-12-02
US	43152633	R1JBSJF3ZMMGBS	0743412524	367525825	Love (Fearless #18)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Finally the Confession from Ed!!!!	Gaia is fed up with her complicated life in NYC so she decides she is going to leave everybody behind and just run from all her problems. However there was one thing she just couldn't leave behind and that was Ed who was always there for her whenever she needed it. However she doesn't want to see Ed either so she decides to write a note and bet on her luck that he isn't there. Things however never seem to go right for Gaia cause Ed just happens to take a stroll through the city and catches sight of her. Ed can't believe how bad Gaia looks. Since Gaia is soaked all over and looking like a tramp Ed after some resistance finally gets Gaia to go in. That when he learns the situation that Gaia is in. He couldn't be more shocked. He makes up his mind that he is going to protect Gaia to his death. There is one more thing too. He has to tell her how he feels before she gets herself killed and he won't be able to tell her! So to my great excitment Ed finally confesses!!! Everything went just like I wanted it to in Love! Heather finally realized that she can't ever get back with Ed again and somewhat makes up with Gaia..well the best that two enemies can do!! The only thing I don't like is how Loki is playing with Gaia's feelings and making her think Sam isn't dead! However that is also part of the plot so I wasn't that mad about it because it definitely thickens the plot!! Love is one book that you can truly not miss!! I can't believe that Ed finally confessed!! It seems I have been waiting centuries for those words!! I can't wait for the next one either because this book ended with a total cliffhanger!! To sum it up, all fans of the Fearless series can't miss this one!!!!!!	2001-11-28
US	43152633	R2KTW7WXW8Q87C	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Tragedy follows...	&quot;The Wide Window&quot; is in my view the most sad and tragic of all the books in Lemony Snicket's &quot;A Series of Unfortunate Events&quot; centered on the life of the orphans Violet, Klaus, and Sunny. In book the third the Baudelairs are taken by their lawyer Mr.Poe to live with Aunt Josephine at her house on the top of the mountain at Lake Lachrymose, home of the venomous Lachrymose Leeches. Aunt Josephine is scared of everything and expects diaster to always be around the corner. She thinks she will get burned by using the stove so the Baudelairs have to settle with the most awful cold cucumber soup they have ever tasted. Plus Aunt Josephine loves nothing more than grammar and constantly corrects the orphans mistakes. However Violet, Klaus, and Sunny are thankful that Count Olaf hasn't appeared in the quiet Lake Lachrymose yet. Their luck doesn't last long. It seems this time Count Olaf disguises himself as Captain Sham a sea captain!!! He totally fools Aunt Josephine but not the Baudelairs! Mysteriously Aunt Josephine seems to have commited suicide after a phone call to Captain Sham and has left the children under his care! Can the Baudelair orphans foil his evil plans once again?<br />I found this book to be very sad even though it was still hilirous. Lemony Snicket truly works his magic in these books. I can't wait to read his autobiography!	2001-11-25
US	43152633	R2ED3XX7TWXDBU	0064472825	43222945	Betrayed (Fingerprints #5)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Suspensful!!!	Rae's life couldn't be more complicated! Yes, she has finally kissed Anthony but when Anthony sees Marcus giving her a present he totally misunderstood the situation and she can't get to him because her ex-boyfriend Marcus seems to always be in the way! This part just really fustrated me very much! I was expecting Rae and Athony's relationship to blossom! Things get even more fustrating when Yana seems to have gotten into her head that Rae is the one who sent a letter to her dad about the ballet story. Rae feels all alone and it doesn't make her feel better when it seems Anthony and Yana are hiding something from her. So when she gets a chance to find out about her mother more she goes by herself. However going by herself is definitely going to be dangerous. <br />This book was really fast-paced and as Rae finds out about her mother, unexpected truths about the group, her mother's powers, Amanda Reese, and a lot of stuff about herself. Metz definitely thickened the plot in this story. However the Rae and Anthony dilemma is really getting to be a pain. You just can't have tooooo many misunderstandings! However besides that point this book was really great!	2001-11-25
US	43152633	R2RCZL9597BGD9	0590880780	967553302	Them (Remnants, 3)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	500 years from home...	500 years from home the remnants of the Mayflower project find themselves on a strange spaceship that seems to be centered around a structure which seems to resemble &quot;The Tower of Babel&quot;. The group of survivors have now split into two. Jobs, Mo'Steel, Violet Blake, Olga, and the wierd Billy Weir are on one team while Yago, Tamara, her weird alien of a baby, 2face, and the rest of the crew are on the other team. This planet of a spaceship is not what it seems. Riders are consistanly on the prowl for the survivors. Jobs and Mo'Steel's team meet a Blue Meanie who from the interpretation of Billy Weir explain to them about Mother. Mother he says is very confused and sad and needs to be shut down for awhile. However can they shut mother down in time before the other demons convulge on them?<br />This book was definitely what you call strange. However it explains a lot about the first 2 books. There is also a lot of character development and description. However some parts of this book was sketchy and other parts were just plain strange. However besides that this was a great book!	2001-11-24
US	43152633	R3Q9OWL5Y0I0S2	1584850248	668806157	Kit Saves The Day (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Summer fun for Kit!	Summer arrives and Kit is as bored as ever. She is very ready for an adventure. It seems the chance comes when a hobo named Will that came from Texas comes to their looking for work and a meal. From Will Kit and Stirling learns about the hobo jungle and the fun and hardships to the hobo life. Hobo life seems very interesting to Kit as she learns from Will about jumping rails from town to town, hobo signals, and many more.  Kit is even more interested in the so call &quot;hobo stew&quot;! When will leaves without taking any food for the hobo stew Kit and Stirling set out on a adventure to find the hobo jungle. However Kit got way more then she bargained for and has a great adventure that teaches a lesson. I won't tell you what it is. All I can say is that it includes getting arrested and finally leads up to Kit saving the day! A great addition to the American Girls Collection that all ages will enjoy!!!	2001-11-21
US	43152633	R20PUNDNPX3S5H	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another hit!!	While traveling on Lousy Lane in Mr.Poe's car the three orphaned Baudelaire children, Violet,Klaus, and Sunny are anxouis to meet the new guardian, Montgomery Montgomery, that Mr.Poe has set them up with. &quot;Would Dr. Montgomery be a kind person? they wondered. Would he at least be better than Count Olaf? Could he possibly be worse?&quot; However for once things turn out great for them. It seem Uncle Monty is as brilliant as ever. The orphans get their own seperate rooms for their liking.(Much different that Count Olaf) Uncle Monty circles the globe looking for snakes to study, and even plans to take them with him on his scientific expedition to Peru. The children can't believe their luck and are overjoyed. Plus they get to stay in his Reptile Room which is full of specimens Uncle Monty has collect, including the Incredibly Deadly Viper(Who is probably the most friendly snake ever! Totally wrong name!) Things however take the turn for the worse when Count Olaf shows up! The children can't believe their eyes!! This time it seems he has disguised himself as Stephano, Uncle Monty's assistant. No sooner has Count Olaf turned up but soon he murders Uncle Monty! Voilet, Klaus, and Sunny try to explain to Mr. Poe about Stephano but it seems nobody will believe he is Count Olaf. Plus it seems Olaf plans to take them to Peru and who knows what will happen there? Can the Baudelauires solve their problems this time?<br />I absoultely love these books! They make my day brighter as Lemony Snicket is a true genius with his dry humor! I have so far read all eight and things definetly heat up later! So if you love these books right now I encourage you to read on!!!!!	2001-11-15
US	43152633	R2ZNF2KCY0ICBL	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Totally Austere!!!	In the book the fifth, Voilet, Klaus, and Sunny find themselves at Prufrock Preparatory School, where unfortunately the motto is Memento Mori, or &quot;Remember you will die.&quot; This is not a cheerful greeting, and certainly marks an bad beginning to a very bleak story. The orphans are hoping for a brighter place than last. Unfortunately there new guardian of sorts Vice Principle Nero is exactly the opposite. A self proposed genius Nero is your exact match to a snob. He mimics in his screechy tone everything the orphans say and he is a self proclaimed genius at the violin. With this horrid Vice Principle the Baudalaiurs know that they aren't going to have a grand time. Hope dissipates more however when they see their new living courters which is an &quot;Orphan Shack&quot;. Not only are there live crabs in the shack but fungus too! It seems the only confort the orphans have are also orphans. The Quagmire tripets Duncan and Isadora. The orphans make friends quickly through their boring lessons and Vice Principle Nero's boring concerts. For some time the Baudalaires finally think they have found peace and thier unfortunate lives are over. Hopes disappate as quickly as thin air when they see thier new gym teacher Coach Genghis. He is no other than Count Olaf!! What has he planned for the orphans now??	2001-11-13
US	43152633	R200JOS4W9L16Z	0439249546	667539744	Harry Potter (4 Volumes set)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Harry Potter Rules All Ages!	My parents bought the Harry Potter books for me as a Christmas present because they heard how popular the books were. I was hooked immediately!! This books are just great and J.K. truly works her magic in them. She has managed to bridge the generation gap with just these 4 books. I have to say it is not the books that are magical but it is J.K. with her magical wand that has united readers young and old together again. Hopefully critisism won't ruin the great things she has done with these books.<br />&quot;Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone&quot; the first book in this series tells of Harry's first year at Hogwarts school. It begins when Harry as a baby is sent to live with his disgusting aunt,uncle, and cousin when he was just a baby after his parents were killed by an evil wizard. Harry grows up with no notion of being anything close to a wizard. All he know is that he is a worthless creep in the Dursley's eyes. However when he turns 11 he begins to see changes. Before he knows it he is wisked off to Hogwarts with the gamekeeper Hagrid. Thus his adventures begin. He quickly makes friends with Ron Weasly, and becomes the first first-year student to participate in Quidditch. I have to say my favorite aspects of this book was how J.K. imagined up Quidditch. Truly a work of magic. This first book totally blew me away and I read it in 3 hours.<br />Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets focuses on Harry's second year at Hogwarts. When Harry returns to the Dursley's during summer break he finds himself very not welcomed and confined to his room. Harry is more than happy to return to Hogwarts. However things at Hogwarts are not the same. The whole school is in cahoots when Finch's cat Mrs.Norris seems to have turned to stone. Harry, Ron, and Hermoine decide they have to investigate this mystery. However one day Hermoine seems to have found out something but is too mysteriously turned to stone. Soon more and more people suffer the same fate. However you won't believe who the number one suspect is, it is no other than Harry himself! This second book gripped me just as much as the first book. However for some reason I still like the first one better. The ending to this book is totally fantastic to read!<br />Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is one of my favorites so far. Before returing to school Harry is warned by a mysterious House Elf named Dobby that someone is out to get him at Hogwarts. So Harry goes to school having bad feelings about this new year. When he gets to school Harry learns the reason why everyone is uneasy. It seems Sirius Black an escaped convict from the prison of Azkaban--is on the loose. Not only that, but he's after Harry Potter. His last words were &quot;he's at Hogwarts.&quot; Why? The ending to this book was really very creative and totally came as a surprise. I also love the new Defense of the Dark Arts Teacher Professor Lupin. Unfortunately he turned out to be a werewolf but that is another whole different aspect of this sorry. To sum it up this book was just truly magical!!! Another thing I liked about this book is that it offered new insights into Harry's past and his parent's past. This one was spectacular and the ending totally blew me away!!! This is probably the one I want to see the most if made into a movie.<br />Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire the fourth in the seven book series started out with a bang! Harry and his friend Ron decide to go to the Quidditch World Cup. However mysteriously the Dark Mark shows up. Everybody knows that is the sign of Lord Voldemart and Harry has had enough of that evil wizard for a life time. It was kind of disappointing to know there would be no Quidditch but I was totally excited to learn of the Triwizard Tournament. Hogwarts will vie with two other magicians' schools, the stylish Beauxbatons and the icy Durmstrang schools. Harry is mysteriously allowed to participate in the tournament even though he is underage. This leads to a whole new mystery finally leading up to the end when Harry finally has his confrontation with Lord Voldemart. The ending was kind of gory but I still thought it was justified. This fourth book totally blew me away again and even though it had 700 some pages the time just flew. Usually I would never read that long of a book!<br />The 2 year drought is almost over now because I heard Harry Potter number 5 is coming out early 2002. However J.K. has satisfied us with two Harry Potter school books which I highly recommend you read. The are very fun! The new released movie Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone should be another great see! Heard it was great! It seemed this two year drought hasn't been as bad as I thought it would be when I first heard it!! I can only say that I am going to be the first in line to see the movie and see the magic of J.K. come alive!!inally leading up to the end when Harry finally has his confrontation with Lord Voldemart. The ending was kind of gory but I still thought it was justified. This fourth book totally blew me away again and even though it had 700 some pages the time just flew. Usually I would never read that long of a book! <br />The 2 year drought is almost over now because I heard Harry Potter number 5 is coming out early 2002. However J.K. has satisfied us with two Harry Potter school books which I highly recommend you read. The are very fun! The new released movie Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone should be another great see! Heard it was great! It seemed this two year drought hasn't been as bad as I thought it would be when I first heard it!! I can only say that I am going to be the first in line to see the movie and see the magic of J.K. come alive!!	2001-11-08
US	43152633	REDFGQXO6UMZ8	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Clever and Fun!!!!	How would you feel to be staring at a sign made out of gum? Well that is the situation Violet, Klaus, and Sunny find themselves in as Mr. Poe their financial advisor has set them up with a new guardian whose name is Sir, because nobody can pronounce his name. The sibling find themselves in another most unfortunate situation as they are forced to work by sir at the Lucky Smells Lumbermill which he owns. However the most horrible thing is they only get a piece of gum for lunch and the head foreman , Foreman Flacutono is a grumpy and mean man. Much to their horror they have to sleep in damp wet conditions and only get one bunk between the three of them. However things get much worse when Klaus breaks his glasses and has to go to Dr. Orwell to repair them. When he returns Violet and Sunny can tell he isn't himself. When they investigate they find out that the nasty Count Olaf is disguised as Shirley a receptionist at Dr. Orwells. His new divised plan is to adopt the orphans if they cause any trouble at the mill as he or you can say she has already talked to Sir on that situation. However that is the least of Violet and Sunny's problems as they need to find a quick solution to get Klaus unhypnolized! <br />The 4th on in the series is one of my favorites! It was so fun to read and the unfortunated situations the Baudlaires get into just pile up! So far I have read all eight of them and the plot really thickens later so keep reading!	2001-11-05
US	43152633	RUOOS2W6J2W2F	0064408663	17923185	The Hostile Hospital (A Series of Unfortunate Events #8)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Woe and Mystery!!!	Whar else can come from the eight book of The A Series of Unfortunate Events then horrible situations for the Baudalaires? As we all know by now in the 7th book &quot;The Vile Village the Baudalaires are accused falsely of the murder of Jacques Snicket. As their woeful lives continue the orphans join V.F.D(Voluteers Fighting Disease) at the Hemilich Hospital. There they are sent to the Library of Records to work. As we all know by now where the orphans go Count Olaf follows. This time however he can't be seen as the oprhans only know he is the head of the hospital. Just when they discover extrodainary evidence in the Library of Records on themselves Esme Squalor(now the girlfriend of Count Olaf) comes and captures Violet. It seems Count Olaf is going to do some very uneccessay surgery on poor helpless Voilet. Can Klaus and Sunny foil his plans once again?<br />Through this book Lemony Snickey worked his magic again with his dry humor! I was also excited because he is revealing more and more on the circumstances of Beatrice's death and it seems very related to Esme Squalor. So many question are lurking that I can't wait for #9 the Carnivourous Carnival!!	2001-10-29
US	43152633	R15LOGRSIJOJ7W	0064408655	43061444	The Vile Village (A Series of Unfortunate Events, No. 7)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;It takes a village to raise an orphan!&quot;	THE VILE VILLAGE is the seventh book in the Series of Unfortunate Events which focuses on the lives of Violet, Klaus, and Sunny Baudalaire. In this new chapter of their lives the three Baudalaire orphans find themselves unwanted by any of their relatives because of their recent &quot;unfortunate events&quot;. However the get the good news or you can consider it bad news that the village of V.F.D whose motto is &quot;IT TAKES A VILLAGE TO RAISE A CHILD&quot; wants to adopt them. The orphans are excited as they embark on their new journey as they very well know that this village might hold the secrets to the Quagmire triplet's secret about V.F.D. <br />However when they arrive there they find thousands of crows to greet them and thounsands of ridiculous rules they have to follow. Plus the three of them have to do all the chores they village elders require them. It seems the only person who actrully accepts the orphans to care for is the village keeper named Hector. However he isn't much help because he gets skittish around the village elder for their stupid rules. The good thing is that he keeps a secret inventing studio and a secret library( which by the way are against the rules in V.F.D.) for Violet and Klaus to enjoy. The plot thickens when they kids find couplets written by Isable Quagmire under the tree next to Hecoter's shack and then the three Baudlaires get the news that Count Olaf(Known in V.F.D. as Count Omar) has been captured. However as all the unfortunate things are for them this one can also be counted for this Count Olaf is false. Before the kids can get information about him he is mysterouisly murdered and guess what? The detective who comes to review the case is no other than Count Olaf in one of his new ridiculous diguises. And he accuses the kids of murder! Can the Baudlaires find a solution to their neverending series of unfortunate events? <br />This 7th book was totally genious by Lemony Snicket! It is one of my favorites. The 8th book which Ihave already read can be said to be even better. However let me warn you if you hate bad and unfortunate endings don't read these books!!!! Listen to the author's advice!	2001-10-28
US	43152633	RJFC4TLAM3JRH	1584850221	668806157	Happy Birthday, Kit! (American Girl Collection)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another nice addition to the American Girls!	Kit knows her birthday will not be like other years as the family is short on money and barely getting by. She wishes to have a grand birthday like the one in the newspaper but knows that won't be possible. However a surprise visit from her Aunt Millie brightens her hopes. As everybody in her family knows Aunt Millie is a person who knows what to do out of anything. Kit can't believe how many ideas Aunt Millie comes up with such as turning corn sacks in bloomers, planting gardens, buying cheap things from the grocery store, picking dandelions to make salads, and a bunch of other ideas. The ideas are so plentiful that Kit, Ruthie, and Stirling start an Alamac on all Aunt Millie's money saving ideas. However when Aunt Millie suddenly shows up at her school Kit feels embarrassed at how her aunts idea of a penny pincher birthday. Kit also feels embarrassed as the kids laugh at her Aunt's ideas. However surprises are in store for Kit on her birthday! Read this book to find out! <br />This was another great addition to the American Girls Collection! I have been reading them since I was 7 and even though I am much older and these books are much too easy for me I still enjoy them as if I were 7! I highly recommend all the books!	2001-10-22
US	43152633	R34WNAGLCTPS76	0439135249	539152035	Fatality	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Slow moving but not bad	One summer weekend four years ago Rose was invited to Angelica's beautiful house. Rose couldn't believe it back then. It was a dream come true! She couldn't wait to enjoy the pool and just party while recording her great experiences in her diary. However someone turned up dead that weekend and Rose's weekend was ruined. It turns out Angelica's dad's partner in law Frannie was murdered that weekend and he was the last one to see her. Four years later the police have reopened the case and to Rose's horror steal her diary in which she wrote her thoughts that weekend. To protect her family Rose steals the diary back. However it seems someone is out to get Rose. Whoever Rose is protecting doesn't seem to want her to protect them! Who could it be? <br />This book was kind of slow moving. I would recommend you borrow it at the library. I was sorely disappointed in Caroline's new book and I really didn't think the ending in this story sounded right. It was too sudden and just didn't fit in. To sum it up it was an okay book.	2001-10-22
US	43152633	R1BK53I5TXZVP2	0743412516	675088070	Flee (Fearless #17)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shocking Revelations!	Let me warn you before you pick up this book that after you read it it will change the aspect of this whole series. The shocking revelations stunned me to pieces.<br />First of all the shocking revelations on Tom's mission in Europe was exciting and shocking. Tom manages to foil Loki's plan thus stealing one of Loki's top secret disks. Inside he learns the shocking truth about what Loki has planned for Gaia. Let us just say it is pure EVIL!<br />The other shocking revelation was so sad I sobbed through the end of the book. This revelation has to do with Sam. He finds himself sinking deeper and deeper in Loki's organization and by trying to protect Gaia he loses her. Finally he comes face to face with the unthinkably evil Loki! The move at the end of the book with Sam's character was so sad! After this revelation I don't know what to think of what to come. I was never a big Sam fan but I still am not sure if the move by the author is really a good one. The only thing it signals is that the series is definetly coming to an end pretty soon. The only part in this book that wasn't very shocking is that Gaia is definetly getting more uncomfortable around Ed now that he has regained the use of his legs. I wonder how their relationship will turn with the sudden move of Sam's character. All I know is I can't wait to read #18 Love to find out!	2001-10-21
US	43152633	R1I25ANY46EIIJ	0064408647	479846891	The Ersatz Elevator (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 6)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Orphan are In!	Orphans are in at 667 Dark Avenue which means the citys sixth rich person Esme and her husband Jeremy Squalor can adopt the Baulaire orphans. Thus Violet, Klaus, and Sunny move into the 71 roomed apartment of the Squalor's penthouse. However things go ersatz from there. First the auctioneer for the &quot;in&quot; auction named Guther is definetly not who he is. In fact he is the devious Count Olaf in his new disguise! This whole new adventure has the Baudlairs on whole new adventures such as into the dark ersatz elevator and finding the Quagmire triplets. <br />The sixth book in this series was one of the best full of funny words and phrases! Lemony Snicket outdid himself again!	2001-10-20
US	43152633	RZC8SSDM75E09	0439216001	410259954	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Douglas Allen Deeds, Donner Party Expedition, 1846	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Powerful New Book!	In 1848 newly orphaned Douglas with just $100 dollars with him decides to leave Missouri and join the Donner Party on their expedition to California. Douglas expects the journey to be quick and easy. He expects them to definetly get there by the first snow fall. Little does he imagine the disastrous journey ahead. Neither can he imagine the horrors he will see. Leaders decide to take the unknown Hastings drive in order to shorten the journey. However the unexplored Hasting drive is totally different then expected. Long periods of time in deserts with no water and animals dying totally paralizes the party. However nothing will prepare them for the bitter freezing cold Seirra Neveda as the first snowfall comes. This is a powerful journal and all fans should like this book!	2001-10-19
US	43152633	R2DYBJE5J343E2	0439219434	383899953	Christmas After All: The Great Depression Diary of Minnie Swift, Indianapolis, Indiana 1932 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Teaches Us about Life	Eleven-year-old Minnie Swift's family like the rest of the nation are feeling the effects of the Great Depression. As Minnie knows this Christmas will not be like other years as it will be joyless. As the nation feels the effects of the Depression Minnie is thankful her father still has a job even thougth the pay is so small their family is having a hard time puting food on the table. Minnie feels life couldn't be worse. However things take a turn for the better as the whole family gets a surprise when Minnie's orphaned cousin, Willie Faye comes to live with her family. From Willie Minnie learns to be more thankful as Willie's life in the Dust bowl of Texas is even harder. Minnie's whole family, even her younger brother who is unbelievely pesky, embrace Willie into their family. However just when there is some joy the whole family is hit with the news that Minnie's father has lost his job. Minnie fears the worst as she sees all the homeless wandering people on the streets. However there are more surprises to come but the most important thing I learned from this story and I know many of our grandparents and great-grandparents learned during the Great Depression, is that family love and bondage will make the worst situation seem ever slightly bearable. Kathryn Lasky is one of my favorite Dear America authors and her new book is one of the best in the series! I went away from this book being more thankful for the things I have. Every fan of Dear America should definetly read this book! Thank you Mrs. Lasky!	2001-10-19
US	43152633	R33A9I6XRWLFF9	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Clever, Dark, and Funny!	The Bad Beginning, the first book in the &quot;A Series of Unfortunate Events&quot; can be classifed as clever, dark, and funny. At the beginning of the book when the author says don't keep reading if you hate bad endings he is quite right. First the Baudelaire children get the most horrifying news from Mr. Poe, a guy who can't seem to stop coughing, that their parents had died in a horrible fire. They have a fortune but they learn the unfortunate news that they can't have it until the oldest Violet who is 14 becomes adult age. So their lawyer Mr. Poe takes the three children Violet, Klaus, and Sunny to the horrible guardian Count Olaf who will stop at nothing to get their fortune. The three orphans seem defensless against Count Olaf's evil plans as he traps Baby Sunny in the forbidden tower until Violet would marry him. However Count Olaf seems to have underestimated these smart children! <br />This book was really really funny. In many ways it has the humor and darkness of Harry Potter and even more. This is a great start to the books about the Baudlaire orphans but firsthand let me warn you: If you hate unhappy, unfortunate, bad ending stop reading now!	2001-10-19
US	43152633	R2ZV8FASBCC1WC	0439215986	898249194	The Royal Diaries:  Victoria, May Blossom of Britannia, England 1829	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Thrilling New Royal Diary!	Ten-year-old Victoria might be the princess of England but her life is horrible. Being the princess deprives her of all her privacy except for the secret diary which is her only refuge. Her personal thougts can only be a secret there. In her precious diary she describes the fact that her father the former King of England who died when she was just a baby, and the sad fact that she has not a single memory of him, and the fact that for this reason her mother treats her like a baby and won't allow her to have a regular life fearful she would get sick. She also describes her life with the tiresome parties, lessons, and going to the palace by the sea. However she also has bigger things to worry about such as her mother's personal advisor who she feels is up to no good and distrustful while handling the fact the her uncle, now the King of England's health is deterioting. Young Victoria pours her feeling out in this book on her hopes, aspiration, and the duty of being princess that weighs down on her. In this book about the longest ruling queen of England you will truly see the feelings of a young girl who is truly helpless about the world around her but still carries hope. In many ways you can relate some of her life to ours today. I love this new Royal Diaries book and I think this debut title by Anne Kirwan couldn't have been better!	2001-10-19
US	43152633	R3AWLZQIUG5M9N	0553487485	937467373	Like Father Like Son (Replica 20)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Thrilling New Book in the Replica Series!	Chris( Amy Chandler's new boyfriend)has lived most of his life without his perfessional football player dad. However after so many years suddenly his dad returns. However the intentions are different from what Chris thinks. His father needs a bone marrow transplant because his old drug habit has caught up with him and he thinks Chris might be the perfect match. Amy totally disagrees with Chris giving his father help because she thinks his father is just coming back to Chris in his time of need. Plus she has a bad feeling about this whole situation. She doesn't want adults who are sick to just be able to tap into there childs system and make their children unwilling donors whose whole life was meant to donate. She isn't about to let this happen! This was a great book! I can't wait for the next one to come! Hope I'd helped!	2001-10-09
US	43152633	R1TL3U80BT2DM5	0743412508	942368483	Naked (Fearless #16)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great!	Gaia is suddenly feeling very uncomfortable around Ed now that he has somewhat regained the use of his legs and is in crutches.(Let me say I am very happy by this cause I have always been the Gaia and Ed get together fan!)The part of this book that focuses on Sam though is very heartbreaking and also boring. As I already knew before Sam is falling more and more into Loki's organization and can't stand up to Josh. His and Gaia relationship has fallen apart. Lets just say their relationship broke up because the self-centered Sam can't stand Paul Moss(Mary's brother)who Gaia is hanging out with now since she moved in with the Mosses. I was also very pleased because we finally know the circumstances of Ed's accident. With Ed's addmision also comes out Hearther's secret about the accident. Unfortunately Ed doesn't know but when he did find out there will be a big surprise! The secret totally changed my opinion of Heather from not liking her to HATING HER! Since I have already read the next book I will give you an update. Be ready for a surprise that will totally turn this series upside down and the viewpoint of the series will totally change!	2001-10-05
US	43152633	R1E0D6QMY2WU0P	0060293152	374371506	The Two Princesses of Bamarre	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Great Fantasy	Gail Carson Levine returns in another fantasy just as good as her beloved newberry winning Ella Enchanted! In the Two Princesses of Bamarre Levine writes of two princess sisters who are just the opposite of eachother. Addie is shy, quiet, and afraid of spiders. Meryl is strongwilled, brave, and loud. <BR>The male lead character is Rhys a beginner sorcerer who Addie has secret feelings for.<br />The story begins as the Gray Death, the most feared disease among all the citizens of Barmarre strikes Meryl. Addie can't bear to see Meryl die for there is no cure. She is frustrated that her cowardly father isn't brave enough to go and find a cure for her sister. So she sets out on a secret mission with tools given to her by her sister, the physician,Rhys, and her mother she sets out on a journey that she will always remember. Inspired by her hero, Drault, Addie encounters beasts, orges, sepctors, and the Dragon Volley whom her sister Meryl had wished to slay. Addie using advice from Rhys manages to get the cure out of Volleys. However she is trapped in Volleys den and time is running out for Addie! <br />This book was very enchanting. You would never be able to guess the ending. I think that was the best part of the book for it was really very creative and again enchanting!!	2001-09-23
US	43152633	R2VWCXTXJRXI8V	0767908473	495549695	The Sorcerer's Companion: A Guide to the Magical World of Harry Potter	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Totally Cool!	This new companion to the Magical World of Harry Potter was totally cool! And no it was not written by J.K. Rowling. It had everything you would want to learn about Harry Potter books. I think this will make future Harry Potter books more interesting to read. In this book you will learn about the history of the broomstick,reading tea leaves ,witch persecution,Grindylow, and Hermoine's spell on Draco Malfroy! A totally hilirious book that also holds the key to tons of information on Harry Potter! Now we Muggles can learn a lot more about the magical world of Harry Potter! This book was intriging and fun all at the same time! I highly recommend you read this book and all the other Harry Potter books and The Magical World of Harry Potter!	2001-09-23
US	43152633	RX7LD2YFFKDFJ	0590438107	450992410	My Face to the Wind: the Diary of Sarah Jane Price, a Prairie Teacher, Broken Bow, Nebraska 1881 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Great Historical Fiction!	Life is very hard for Sarah Jane Price in Broken Bow, Nebraska after her father's death in an epademic. However she even with money running out very quickly and life being hard is determined to stay by her father's grave and not follow others who are moving to the west. The fourteen-year-old girl decideds to take her father's old job as a schoolteacher for the children of Broken Bow, Nebraska because nobody has been found to replace her father. However the lack of experience hurts Sarah but does not hurt her heart. This was a great historical fiction book by Jim Murphy. I think it was one of his best. What a great edition to Dear America and its Fans!	2001-09-18
US	43152633	R2X0EMPWYSWNPX	0439328748	958728771	Early Sunday Morning: The Pearl Harbor Diary of Amber Billows, Hawaii 1941 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	1	7	N	N	Not Denenberg's best	Early Sunday Morning was I think not one of Denenberg's best and definetly not the best in the Dear America series. Partially I think this book would have done a lot better if it came out in May cause of all the movies stories and everything.<br />Now back to the story. It starts out in October 1941 in Washington D.C. Amber and her parents live there cause Amber's father works for a newspaper company. However his job causes him to make the sudden decision to move to Hawaii. Amber resents this because she thought she had finally fit into Washington and had a friend. However Hawaii captures her heart at first sight. She can't help liking the lush atmosphere. However everything is changed of course on December 7, 1941. This book is still not a bad read. Maybe if it were longer it would have been better. Hope I'd helped!	2001-09-18
US	43152633	R1RUJIBAVH4G7E	0679886370	411811908	Stargirl	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Brilliantly Written	Stargirl whose legal name is Susan Caraway is different from all the students at Mica High. She strums her ukelele in the school cafeteria to anybody having a birthday, bring a rat to school called Cinnamon, dresses in Victorian dresses of all styles, cheers for the opposing basketball team, cries at funerals she wasn't even invited to and many others. At first the school totally accepts her until she helps an opposing basketball's star player after he gets injured. The school blames her for their loss. She gets shunned by the whole school except for Leo who loves her deeply. However the shunning by the rest of his classmates catches up to him and he can't choose between her or the whole school. That when he uses his love to make her change and ultimately almost destroy her and her spirit. This was a great book and everyone Jerry Spinellii did a great job depicting a girl who we should all try to copy. We should all remember not to let others ruin our own spirit.	2001-09-18
US	43152633	R1DEBVU8IRSQ9H	0805057293	698236462	Haunted Sister	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Haunted by her Twin!	Young teen Janine gets into a car accident one afternoon after cutting school with her boyfriend Scott. Janine goes through a near death experience where she meets old deceased relatives, but most importantly her twin sister Lenore who died when she was just four. Janine goes through a life and death decision and chooses life. However things are not what they seem. Her twin Lenore has come from the dead back with her and is now inside her body. Lenore is ready to uncover a deep dark sercret in the twin's past that lead to Lenore's death. Janine always know as the &quot;good twin&quot; wakes from her accident with her &quot;bad twin&quot; Lenore inside of her. From her mom she learns she has suffered severe head trauma and her boyfriend Scott is in a wheelchair. However that is the least of Janine's problems. Lenore is constantly annoying her and causing her to do on-Janine things. Many times she blurts out thoughts she doesn't want to and many believe it is just her head trauma. However things get out of hand as some times Lenore is able to take control of Janine's body. But that is just the least of Janine's problems. She is having flashbacks of the time when she was just 4 and Lenore's death. From there Janine uncovers the deep dark secret about herself and what she had been denying deep inside of herself for years. She begins to understand why her twin came back and who she herself truly was. From there she can truly live peacefully and with the truth. <br />This book was great! It was truly a great horror and science-fiction book. I recommend this book to anybody who loves science fiction. If you like this book you should also try reading Rosewell High.	2001-09-14
US	43152633	RDPUN74Y1QJBC	0439121973	502740180	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Jesse Smoke, A Cherokee Boy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Trail of Tears	Jesse and his fellow Cherokee people have lived on the land for generations. Their ancestors grew old and died on the same Georgian land. However life changes suddendly in 1838 as the Treaty of New Enchota forces him and his mother and sister off of their land. At first like many of his people his family refuses to go. However in the middle of the night one night they were forced harshfully to move out. Jesse knows life will never be the same again as he sees the harships, sickness, death, hunger, fatigue, and sorrow in his Cherokee people. The &quot;Trail of Tears&quot; was truly a sad time in our nation's history.	2001-09-13
US	43152633	RRLMQMX74AN34	1556616759	304933207	Mandie and the Tornado! (Mandie, Book 34)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	tornado!	It is summer in 1903. Mandie is returning home for summer vacation and she already has a mystery on her hands. Joining her is Joe who came home from college in New Orleans also for the summer. The two had a few advertures trying to figure out who was living in the old house on the edge of the Shaw property. However with much help from Liza, Aunt Lou, Abraham, and Uncle John the searches come to no avil. Then out of nowhere a tornado strikes and the debris is not the only thing left that will surprise Mandie and her friends. <br />This was another great Mandie book for kids. I can't wait for the next one. However a one year wait is way too long. Hopefully Mrs.Leppard will decide to write more Mandie books throughout the year for they are trully great books!	2001-09-12
US	43152633	R3CHDAW6XHX2QW	0590879979	581036706	The Mayflower Project (Remnants, No 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The End is Here...	Is is 2011. An asteroid is about to hit Earth. Eighty people have been given the opportunity to leave Earth on the Mayflower and have a chance to live. With a set of character such as Jobs, 2face, Yago, Mo'steel, D-Caf, and Billy Weir the first book Remnants started out with a blast. Ka's new series is strange but pretty good. Hopefully when she decides to end this series her ending will be better than Everworld or Animorphs.	2001-08-27
US	43152633	R1NUGKF0I2ENWW	0439176867	266176005	The Seventh Tower #5: Into Battle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	War is to come...	War is to come for the Veil is vulnerable, and the Dark World is in danger from the shadows of Aenir. Tal makes a journey to Aenir to warn the Empress of the impending danger of the Veil. However when he gets to her he wished he never did, for he learns the truth her and the truth about a part of himself. What he learns tells him that his world is in more danger than ever before. Milla, who thought she was going to give herself to the ice, has now become the war chief of the Icecarls on their assault to the castle to protect the Veil and create another Forgetting. Milla in this book acts a lot more mature and in ways reminds you of a Chosen. Garth Nix wrote another wonderful book in this ongoing saga of the Seventh Towers. #6 Violet Keystone should be another tough one to write cause expectations are high.	2001-08-27
US	43152633	R2N1BHTS7LWQHW	0439176859	442365720	The Seventh Tower #4: Above the Veil	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Veil of Darkness*******	In the fourth book of the six book series Seventh Tower Tal and Milla discover a secret band of Underfolk who call themselves &quot;Freefolk&quot;, with Crow as their leader, in the help to protect the veil. Tal reunites with his uncle Ebbit who has been living in hiding with the Freefolk since Tal left for Aenir. Tal also reunites with his old Lectourium teacher Jarnil who he thought died years ago. Together the figure out the truth about the not so human Sushin and figure out part of his only greater evil plan. <br />Meanwhile, Milla decides to go to see the Shield Mother and tell her about all that she has learned and the danger of the veil falling apart, then she will give herself to the ice. However things go terribly wrong as Milla kills the Shield Mother who attacked her because she had a spiritshadow. Milla thinking she will be severly punished instead become the leader of all Icecarls and becomes a War Chief and is to lead them on the mission to take over the castle and forever secure the veil.<br />While Milla is sorting out her army Tal and Crow set out on a mission to protect the veil. However betrayal by both boys lead to tragedy. This was as excepted another great book by Garth Nix. I highly recommend it!	2001-08-24
US	43152633	R1JJWMY6U06RKD	0439176840	907027988	Aenir (The Seventh Tower #3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Third book in the thrilling six book series!	&quot;Aenir&quot; the third book in a group of six has Tal and Milla in the dream word of Aenir. They are on a mission to find the Codex, a book that answers all questions that was stolen from the castle. For Tal, the Choosen, his reason for finding it is hopefully the Codex will answer his questions about his missing father and brother. For Milla, the Icecarl, her reason is she wants to find out about the dream world Aenir and tell her Shield Mother about it. <br />However dreams lead to nightmares. Just when Tal and Milla are about to bond Tal utimitaly betrays Milla by selling her shadow making her forever not able to become a Shield Maiden, her ultimate dream. Feeling betrayed Milla goes her seperate ways. However fate finds her and Tal together again as they try to get the Codex. Will she be able to put aside her feelings of betrayal and hatred to achieve their common goal? A great adventure for all. This third book in the six book series is not one to miss!	2001-08-22
US	43152633	R3TVDP2J0RVRW3	0439164834	476202188	Lady of Ch'iao Kuo: Warrior of the South, Southern China, A.D. 531 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great Edition to the Royal Diaries	Red Bird, 16, daughter of the king of Hsien in Southern China has many responsibilites as the princess of her people. However she is keen and takes the responsibilty very well. Over the years her parents have sent her to Northern China to learn the language and thus she becomes an interpreter for her people and China who are in turmoil. At first life seems good until war breaks out. Can Princess Red Bird convince her people and Northern China to work together, even though they are in turmoil themselves, to fight thier common enemy? This was a great book and Laurence Yep did a great job depicting the culture and customs of the Chinese during that time. I highly recommend this book to all people who enjoy reading the Royal Diaries.	2001-08-21
US	43152633	R3V84H7Q8ZQNGT	0064472817	690999444	Secrets (Fingerprints, Book 4)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The fourth book in the thrilling Fingerprints series!	In &quot;Secrets&quot; Anthony starts to go to school at Sanderson Prep. He hopes that this will get him and Rae even closer. However things are way different then he expected. He is befriend by Rae's old friends, the very ones who abandoned her. It seems that Jackie Rae's old friend seems to be hitting it on with him making him very uncomfortable. What he doesn't realize is how Rae is feeling as their misunderstanding grows deeper.<br />Rae feels Anthony has abandoned her. It seems he never has time for her problems anymore since he keeps blabbering about how there is something seriously wrong with Jackie. Whats more it seems like he has befriended her old friends. Now she only has one person who cares about her---Yana. As she and Yana dig into Raes mom's past they get themselves closer to danger as they look into the New Agey Group Rae's mom particpated in. <br />Just when Rae has gotten pretty close to the truth Jackie is sent to the hospital on overdosige of aspirin. Rae realizes how wrong she was and decides to repear her friendship with Anthony.<br />However just when things are getting much better between the two of them Rae disappears with Yana. Can Anthony figure out he clue she gave him and find her in time? <br />Rae/Anthony fans will be very happy in the end when they...Sorry! You will have to read it to find out!	2001-08-20
US	43152633	R26UEDLRLZ9O12	0439078059	357094187	Isabel: Jewel of Castilla, Spain 1466 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Isabel &quot;Queen of the Americas&quot;	This fictional diary of Queen Isabel tells the story of her life from when she was fifteen through eighteen. During this time Isabel records how lonely she is as her bigger brother King Enrique refuses her to see her widowed mother. She writes down her thoughts and emotions as she tries to thwart every attempt her older brother has of bethoral and marriage because he wants money and riches to benefit him. As she sees more and more of Enrique's bad actions she realizes that he is a bad king and plots to get her younger brother Alfonso on the royal throne, while she also plots with her confidont ArchBishop Carrilo on her secret marriage plans to marry Ferdinado II of Aragon. This was a great diary about the queen that sent Christopher Columbus on his voyage to the Americas. I recommend this book to all enjoyers of Royal Diaries.	2001-08-20
US	43152633	R197A0TXKYFKHO	0439164834	476202188	Lady of Ch'iao Kuo: Warrior of the South, Southern China, A.D. 531 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Book!	This is a great book about a young girl named Red Bird who is very intelligent and keen. She manages to impress people though she is a girl. Laurence Yep did a great job depicting China's history and culture. One Note: Red Bird did not get the title of Lady of Ch'iao Kuo until she was older.	2001-08-20
US	43152633	RDLMV4ADE7NAZ	0743406869	747054943	The Clue on the Crystal Dove (Nancy Drew)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	New Cover-New Mystery	As everyone knows by now wherever Nancy Drew goes there is a mystery awaiting. And she always seems to jump on a clue or something to solve it. You could say she is 160 of 160 in cases. I have read about 150 Nancy Drew books from the Nancy Drew files, Nancy Drew, and Nancy Drew on Campus. I find they are still good books to read in my pastime because there is still some mystery to them and most books keep you guessing.<br />In this installment of the forever lasting Nancy Drew series we have Nancy, Bess, and George going to New York City to visit the magnificent bird collection of the Van Hoogstraten family. The birds were supposidly done by Julius Van Hoogstraten the starter of thier empire. But as Nancy and her friends go to visit Dell Van Hoogstraten who is a friend of Nancy's Aunt Eloise things get out of hand as a crystal chandelier falls out of nowhere scaring the hell out of the guests. Things follow as the most prized peace of the collection the Crystal Dove is stolen. As  Nancy is trying to solve a mystery in the present she must dig deep into the past of Julius Van Hoogstraten to find the sinister serect. As we all know she came through again but this time guessing who did it wasn't that easy. Still a good read.	2001-08-13
US	43152633	R2OI6M2G33QO26	0064472655	584817030	Gifted Touch (Fingerprints, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Thrilling first book!	Rae was a pretty normal sixteen year old girl. She was popular, had a cute boyfriend, and great grades. That was until she started hearing thoughts in her head, thoughts that were sometimes hers and sometimes someone elses. This brought out Rae's biggest fear which was that she was taking after her mother who died in a mental ward when she was just a baby.<br />After Rae was sent to a mental ward and released everthing changed. She could tell everyone at school thought she was crazy. However she had a new found friend in Anthony who is in her group of kids who have troubles. However when Rae almost gets killed and Anthony seems to be the one who did it except for the fact that before she passed out she had a thougt that wasn't hers that someone was framing him can she use the powers that she doesn't understand to save him before it is too late and she gets herself killed? This first book Fingerprints was a very explosive book and moved fast-pace. I love it and am going to keep on reading it.	2001-08-09
US	43152633	R3W2K2XZH6GKK7	0064472671	783210115	Trust Me (Fingerprints, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Keeps you on the edge of your seat!	Rae Voight's life will never be the same again now with her secret powers that only Jessie and Anthony know about. However she is happy that she is not insane and she would do anything to repay Anthony for all the things that he had done for her by helping her through her hard times. She knows deep down Anthony's number one desire is to find out how his father is like and if he is anything like him. So Rae and her friend Yana go on a mission to find out the truth about Anthony's father who left so many years ago. However what Rae finds is something that she can never believe and something that will hurt Anthony more than anything else in the world. However she has probelms of her own as she starts finding out things about her mother's past and mental problems while visiting Anthony's father. However Anthony follows Rae during her plans and when they have a confrotation Rae confesses what she knows about Anthony's father. As she knows Anthony goes into a rage. Can she stop him from ruining his life forever while still dealing with her own problems? This third book in the fingerprints series is the best one yet and I can't wait for #4 Secrets!	2001-08-09
US	43152633	RRAH6XG8WN6Q7	0763608491	342666270	Judy Moody Gets Famous! (Book #2)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	No other word but funny...	The sequel to Judy Moody can get no other word than being funny! After she fails to win the spelling bee contest and sees her arch rival Jessica win and get that beautiful tiara Judy Moody made it her job to become famous!! However like all other Judy Moody books things get out of hand and the book turns outragously funny. Judy's cat named \\"Mouse\\" helps achieve some fame but that isn't lasting. A hilirious book for all ages to enjoy and laugh about!!	2001-08-08
US	43152633	R3L5C0PAA3G34	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	0	0	N	N	By far the best..........	The 3rd installment in the Harry Potter books is by far my favorite out of the first three. It went way beyond my expectationns in many ways. I couldn't put it down for a minute!<br />In this book we get to know the characters in this book a lot more better as now Harry is in his third year at Hogwarts. This year Harry learns about the cruel way his parents died, a lot more about Voldemart, who Sirius Black truly was, and the person who is hiding at Hogwarts. <br />This was really an exciting book to read and the ending is very inventive so people would probably never have guessed it. Hopefully Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire can match the intensity and fun in this book that makes you not want to put it down!	2001-08-08
US	43152633	R333RG3ZYLYSLB	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Magic Anyone?	As many kids and adults before me I thorouly enjoyed reading this book. I couldn't put it down. Every plot line led to something else interesting and you just had to read on. J.K. Rowling did an excellent job writing the plot lines.<br />The story starts when Harry's parents are killed by You-Know-Who and Harry is made to live with his uncle, aunt, and the unbearable cousin Dudley. Harry lives a boring and horrible life as he is mistreated by his relatives. Everything however gets much more interesting on Harry's 11th birthday as everthing seems to be out of ordinary. Harry begins to find out the truth about his past and before he knows it is wisked off to Hogwarts itch and Wizardry School with the giant gameskeeper of Hogwarts named Hagrid.<br />Harry and his friends Ron and Hermione have many adventures as they survive the sorting hat, battle a mountain troll, survive Professor Snape's Potions class,befriend Hagrids Dragon,survive Draco Malfroy and his 2 buddies, and find out the truth about the sorcerer's stone. Sometimes it is very frustrating reading this book because you want the kids so much to tell the teachers what thy have discovered so they don't get into danger but it is impossible. I thourouly enjoyed this book and there wasn't one point in the 3 hours that I was reading it was I bored.<br />Hope I'd helped!	2001-08-08
US	43152633	R335HWXS2H5S3O	0763606855	396408707	Judy Moody was in a mood. Not a good mood. A bad mood.	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Funny and Practical!	This first book in the Judy Moody Series is very funny to read and the illustrations fit right along with the \\"mood swings\\" of Judy Moody.( Get where the name came from?) Judy starts 3rd grade with a bad mood but when she learns they are going to be doing a collogue about themselves her imaginative juices are surfaced.<br />I laughed a lot during this book and it is really a great book to enjoy with a  family. I especially liked the part about the T.P Club( I won't tell you what T.P. stands for!). That was hilirious. I recommend this book to all ages because everyone deserves a good laugh and it doesn't have to be within the 6-10 age limit because ... I loved it!	2001-08-08
US	43152633	R369J4NDJFCC75	0590484672	333672873	Calling on Dragons ( The Enchanted Forest Chronicles, Book 3 )	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Magic is in the Air.....	The third installment in the Enchanted Forest Chronicles was no disappointment. The book starts out with Morwen living with her not one but nine cats. However when Morwen learns that the magic in the enchanted forest is disappearing and King Mendenbar's sword has been stolen she is determined to get it back. With much protesting from Mendenbar they finally decide who goes. Morwen is accompanied by the pregnant Queen Cimorene, the magician Telemain who is most liked when he doesn't open his mouth, Morwen's two cats, Kazul the King of Dragons,and Killer a rabbit who mysteriously turned in a donkey and don't get me wrong but there will be more transformations. As if their quest isn't hard enough they encounter a fire witch, mud, vines that want to eat them, and the all too familiar wizards society.(Need more lemon juice?) Can they get the sword back in time to save the Enchanted Forest and Mendenbar? A cliffhanger ending that you just can't miss!! These Chronicles are probably the best fantasy books I have ever read! I hope you enjoy them too!! Can't wait to read number 4. Too bad it is the last one!	2001-08-07
US	43152633	R30O4DZ5YVR9VD	0590484753	536847715	Talking to Dragons (Enchanted Forest Chronicles)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Too bad this is the conclusion!	I have to say that I will really miss the Enchanted Forest and I wish there were more. In this last installment we find that Cimorene and Mendanbar's baby boy Daystar has grown up with Cimorene on the outskirts of the Enchanted Forest in hiding away from the wizards. Daystar is given a sword by his mother but doesn't even now what it is about and is sent on a mission that he doesn't even have a clue about either. The only thing bothering him is the twingling he feels from the sword and a firewitch named Shiara who can't do any of her magic. Along the way the two meet up with all of the old characters such as Kazul and all the dragons, Morwen, Telemain, and a bunch of wizards who have been causing all the trouble in book two and three. They also meet new characters such as Suz the lizard and a young dragon. However can all of them stop the wizards and rescue Mendanbar from being trapped in the enchanted castle forever? I really enjoyed this series and am very sad it is over. However there are Enchanted Forest short stories to read after this.	2001-08-07
US	43152633	R113ISJ8ZBKTEA	0590457217	432195823	Searching for Dragons	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Not a disappointment!	This second book in The Enchanted Forest Book was definitely not a disappointment. Searching for Dragons was written from Mendanbar the King of the Enchanted Forests point of view. After he finds parts of the Enchanted Forest have been destroyed he sets out on a journey to find out who did it. By inlisting in the witch Morwen's help he goes to the Mountain of Morning to find the king of the dragons Kazul. (Notice that these names are very imaginative?) However when he is there he runs in Cimorene the princess of Kazul whom was the main character in the first book of this series. Mendanbar learns from Cimorene that Kazul has disappeared. Most likely captured by the evil wizards society. As they set out to find Kazul they have many exciting adventures with giants, a magic carpet that needs fixing, a dwarf who use to be like Rumplestilskin, some more lemon juice, and a magician who is too smart for his own good. This was another great fantasy book by Patricia C. Wrede and I couldn't put it down. I can't wait to read the 3rd book in this series. Just to let you know there are 4 books in this series. The names in this book are very imaginative and I always look forward to see what the people are called. This is a great series for kids I think ages 8-15.	2001-08-07
US	43152633	R2KYKWG2D1F328	0439176832	495535554	Castle (The Seventh Tower #2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can't wait to read Aenir!	After the Shield Maiden rescues Tal and Milla and after Milla heals from her wounds the two set out on the daring journey to the castle. Tal is a Chosen, meaning the Castle is his home. He is on a mission to save his family from bad Chosens. Millia is an Icecarl warrior, she is out to get the Sunstone for her people so they don't have to live in the darkness and she can become a Shield Maiden. Something she desperatly wants to be more than anything. After jumping a chasm and going through a heatway tunnels the two end up getting captured anyway. Tal ends up in a pit where he learns the true thing about his father's dissapearence and Milla ends up in the dreaded Hall of Nightmares. However with much help from Tal's great uncle Ebbit they manage to escape but can they survive?<br />This is a great fantasy book and recommend it to everyone. I can't wait to read Aenir!	2001-08-06
US	43152633	R14Y41OPM1285L	0439199980	113261530	2: My America: The Starving Time: Elizabeth's Jamestown Colony Diary, Book Two	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Great Continuation of the First Book	This was a great continuation of the THIS STRANGE NEW LAND as Elizabeth Barker records her thoughts as her first diary was sent back to her twin brother Caleb in England. .... This is a great account of the lives of Elizabeth and her family during the first year of their arrival in Jamestown. I highly recommend this book because it was written very well and you will know a lot about Jamestown after you read this book!	2001-08-05
US	43152633	R5DJ2AO19L695	0764222678	178918634	Drawn by a China Moon: Lottie Moon (Trailblazer Books #34)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very good historical content!	Inspired by Lottie Moon Ida and her family move to the &quot;heathen&quot; China to become missionaries. Ida and her best friend Molly are very sad that they have to leave eachother and decide to be soul sisters and write to eachother every week. <br />Ida has many experiences in China. But with the more experiences the more she realizes China needs doctors and nurses horribly. She decides she wants to be a missionary nurse in China. However Ida contridicts asthma and the doctors tell her she will never be able to become a nurse. Molly upon hearing this news makes a life changing decision that will change her life forever! I won't tell you so read the book! As a Chinese-American I find the contents of the story to be very realistic. I recommend this book to everybody because it has great historical content. If you like this book you should also try reading the Dear America Series!	2001-08-02
US	43152633	R31H67Q7C1CQYM	069004769X	654638841	One Day in the Tropical Rain Forest	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Great information Source	This book was a great information source. You can tell that the author did a lot of research for this book. It records a young boys journey through the rain forest in search of the butterfly that will save the rain forest from the bulldozers. During his journey he encounters many animals. The author gave very useful and vivid detail. However there were some points where the book was kinda hard to understand. I can also understand why some people might think this book was dull. It is just a nature book without much excitment. I recommend this book to anyone who loves nature or is doing research on the rain forest!	2001-08-01
US	43152633	R3NTW37ENMSU4L	0140345353	91009783	The Devil's Arithmetic (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Very touching book!	This is by far one of the most touching books I have ever read. The books starts at Passover when Hannah is tired of hearing about the Holocaust. As all the traditions are done Hannah loses much interest. However when Hannah goes to open the door for Elijah she finds that she has been transported back in time to the beginning of the Holocaust. Her new family calles her Chaya. As she and her family is transported to the camp she endures unhumane treatment. However Hannah learns a lot about herself. She learns that memories are very important. However the most important things are friends and family. That is what helps you survive. Hannah befriend a young girl named Rivka. They become very close. They both have to endure the most horrible treatment by the Nazis. Some of which I can even imagine or believe. In the end Hannah makes the ultimate sacrafice for Rivka but she is rewarded in a way she never can imagine back home. I highly recommend this book because it is written so accrualtly and tells of a time the whole world should be ashamed of.	2001-08-01
US	43152633	R3VG1TF86XF2Y8	0064401766	823688596	Night of the Twisters	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Very realistic!	Based on a real happening &quot;Night of the Twisters&quot; is truly a great book! The characters experiences are very lifelike.<br />Dan, his friend Authur, and his baby brother Ryan are alone when the tornado strikes. Acting on what they were taught they survive. However they realize that they are alone and Dan can not locate his parents. This when he realizes how important family is. Authur meanwhile locates his family and has an emotional reunion. This book was very well written because it shows us how important family is to all of us. <br />Just to convince you how good this book is my 12 year old friend read this book 5 times and was she who convinced me to buy it. I have to say she was right because this is an excellent book! I highly recomment this book to anyone older than 8 because their are some gruesome parts to this book that younger kids might not be able to take in very well. This is also a very good research book for anyone who is researching tornadoes. I have to say after reading this book, I am much more interested in tornadoes!	2001-08-01
US	43152633	R81FNXABJRFUN	043909254X	837242753	My Name Is America: The Journal Of Otto Peltonen, A Finnish Immigrant	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great account on the hardships of Immigrants	Otto Peltonen and his family leave all their relatives in Finland hoping to find a better life and to join his father. Otto dreams America will be great but when he reaches to the town he finds America is not at all great. At first Otto goes to school but soon finds that his family needs him to work in the coal mines to help them survive. Otto finds work hard in the dusty coal mines and the working conditions are horrible. What Otto can't understand is why some miners are much richer than his family. When Otto learns the truth he was sorry he ever asked. However even with the bad working conditions Otto and his family dream one day they will save up enough money so they will have their own farm like in Finland. This is a great accound by William Durbin on the harships of coal workers live. I highly recommend reading it!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RNY5OAIUCYKGA	0374346593	723057829	Lizzie At Last	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Great book that teaches me a lesson	As Lizzie is about to enter 7th grade she decides with the help of her visiting aunt that she needs a change. She just can't stand being teased around anymore. But will new clothe and an new style really change Lizzie? This is a great book about how we shouldn't tease people who are maybe a little different because everyone is different and without differences we would really be a boring bunch! I highly reccommend this book because I was really touched at how teasing changed Lizzie so much but in the end we all learned our lesson about being different!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R1MODO1HXO19TN	0439112095	941349758	My America: Westward To Home: Joshua's Oregon Trail Diary, Book One	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A great account about the Oregon Trail!	Joshua is excited when he is told that his family is going to be going to Oregon. Joshua is also fortunate because his aunt,uncle and cousins are also coming with him. The only thing he doesn't like is his grandfather isn't coming. However Joshua gets a surprise when his grandfather shows up unexpectantly and decides to come with them. Joshua stares at death many times as many people die in their wagon group. However Joshua also manages to have fun as every young boy should do as goes on a bufflo hunt. However when one of his family members gets into trouble crossing a river will Joshua be brave enough to save her? Will his family ever make it to Oregon safe and sound? This is a great book and I think anyone who is interested in the Oregon Trail should read this book!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2CMM1KEU222PJ	038081529X	626564901	Don't Forget Lara (Making Out)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Goodbye Lara	Believe it or not I will miss Lara. Yes, I know she was really bad but she also had a good side and just when she was getting her life back together she had to die. It was just really sad. I highly recommend this book to any teens out there! This series is just really great!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RHOERTZIFOEGV	0439129087	386500982	The Royal Diaries: Anastasia: The Last Grand Duchess, Russia, 1914	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Great Account	I find that this Anastasia book was much better than any of the movies I saw. Also it gave me a much different perspective because the movies always talk about Anastasia's life after the tradegy. <br />Anastasia lives a very carefree life when the book begins. She is protected from the bads in the world and is unaware of what is threatning her and her family. She writes vivid accounts about her mothers meetings with Rasputin. When World War I starts Anastasia's life is turned upside down. She and her family are now no longer the royal family and her family has to move to cold Siberia. This book was really written very accurately about a young duchess who didn't really know anything about what was going on in the world. This was probably what led her family the Romannovs to be the last royal family in Russia. This was truly a great book about a young girl who didn't understand pain very well. I highly recommend people to read this book because it gives you a much better insight on Anastasia's life than any movie will ever do.	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RKTOXWGINU0O	0689806000	668626272	Twisted Summer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Awesome!	Cici who is now 14 hopes to be accepted into the older group of kids on the island. However when she arrives on the island she discovers that Zoe had been murdered the summer before in a cottage. She also learns that the person who is in prison for murdering Zoe is her family cooks son which also happens to be the guy she has a crush ons brother. Cici is sure they got the wrong guy and when she starts finding clues she wished she never had. This mystery might just be linked to her family more than she ever thought it would. This is a great book. It is a page turner because you want to know what happens next very badly. I highly recommend this book to anyone looking for a great mystery!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RS6A5SNVB6XRX	0590108425	201921590	City in the Clouds (The Secrets of Droon #4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Book by Mr. Abbott	When Neal mysteriously turns into a bug Eric and Julie rush him to droon to be cured. Princess Keeah has an idea that the City in the Clouds called Ro can save Neal from being a bug the rest of his life. Seems easy huh? The only probelm is that the city of Ro can only be seen once every seven years. That is not the only problem. Lord Sparr has a plan to steal the diamonds that help function what happens in Droon. Princess Keeah also wants to go to the tower because she wants to find out why her mother disappeared. Will Neal ever be turned back? Will princess Keeah find what happend to her mother? I highly recommend you read this book!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RKK820VHGWS8R	0395978998	840780220	Betsy Zane, The Rose of Fort Henry	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Very Suspenseful	Elizabeth( Betsey ) Zane has lived with her great aunt since her parents died. She longs for her home in Virginia where she can ride her horse freely instead of being told to act like a lady in crowded Philedelphia. When her great aunt dies Betsey makes the daring journey back to Virgina and her home. However she didn't get the welcome she wanted. Her oldest brother is strict and wants her to act like a lady. The story livens as she starts a budding romance with a soldier from nearby Fort Henry. Her world crashes down though when the Indians decide to attack Fort Henry and Besty and her family must flee to Fort Henry for safety. Everything holds up until Fort Henry runs out of gun powder. It looks like Besty is the only one who can get it. Can Besty prove to herself and her brothers that ladies are brave too and can do anything a man can? This was a great book and I highly recommend it. If you like the Dear America Series you will love this book!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2O9KT51CTMODM	0590108395	912921495	The Hidden Stairs and the Magic Carpet (The Secrets of Droon, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I love Droon!	Even though these books are way out of my age group I love them. The story begins when Eric, Neal, and Julie find a secret door in Eric's basement that lead to the magical land of Droon. The encounter many strange creatures and meet a princess named Keeah who needs their help to defeat Lord Sparr who wants to take over Droon. This is another great magical book and I highly recommend it at whatever age you are. If you like Harry Potter you will love this one too!...	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R3VCPZPNJN4CIB	0786814489	635438186	You're a Brave Man, Julius Zimmerman	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Hilarious Book!	Julius has always been known as a loser all his life. Julius was planning for a nice boring summer but his mother signs him up for French and baby-sitting. This book was hilarious as Julius has a very hard time learning French and could not in any way get how to do the Hockey Pockey in French. In baby-sitting Julius tries to get Edison Blue potty tranined but fails miserbrely. The only good part is that the girl next door named Olivia who is an aspiring actress is stunning. This will be a heck of ride for Julius but in the end something great comes out of it! I reccommend this book because it is just really funny and make your day!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	ROQ85HKI5P6I2	0439141001	949477277	My America: Freedom's Wings: Corey's Underground Railroad Diary, Book One	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great book about a young boy's quest for freedom!	Corey and his family live as slaves on a farm in Kentucky. Corey's dad secretly gives him an education and Corey secretly records his thoughts in his diary. Even though Corey is a slave life is bearable until he overhears his father is going to be sold into the Deep South. Corey's father manages to escape. With help from the Underground Railroad Corey and his mother start their daring journey to the north which is more daring than ever because Corey's mother is pregnant. Will Corey's family be reunited or willl he be made a slave again? Read this book and you will know!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2BMCE1C65YH0B	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very Cute and for a good cause!	Qudditch Through the Ages by &quot;Kennilworthy Whisp&quot; and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find them by &quot;Newt Scamander&quot; were really good books to take up your time while waiting for Harry Pottor #5. It would also be a good thing to buy them because they are for a good cause. J.K. Rowling did another splendid job writing these two books and just for fun both books have an intro. by Albus Dumbledore.<br />Quidditch Through the Ages is set up like a library book and on some pages Harry and Ron have scribbled things on to make the book funnier. After reading this book you will get a much better understanding of the past,present, and future of Qudditch and also the teams of Qudditch around the world.<br />&quot;Fantastic Beasts &amp; Where To Find Them&quot; is set up like a textbook that you and I would have. Again Harry and Ron have scribbled on entertaining little notes! In here you will find every imaginable thing including the animals in Hagrids classes! <BR>You will learn of animals in the Harry Potter books such as those huge spiders that appeared in &quot;Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets&quot;. Plus you will learn about all the types of dragons, faires, merpeople, centuers, and other interesting magical animals and the category they fall under. <br />Both of these books were fun and charming. After reading these books I got a lot more info. on the wizard world and a better understanding of the first four Harry Potters. What wonderful books and they are for a great cause! Thanks J.K.!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	RQ4TKD44UMWC3	0590687158	363815133	My Secret War: The World War II Diary of Madeline Beck, Long Island, New York 1941 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Book!	This is a great book about thirteen year old Madeline Beck whose father is serving in the Air Force in the Pacific. Madeline misses her father a lot but is happy that he is safe and sound. Meanwhile she decides to help with the war effort. She starts a club with her best friend Johnny Veccio( He could be considered more of a friend). However Madeline will never be ready for what awaits her one night on the beach. I won't spoil the book for you so to find out you will just have to read it!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R3OOXJNV7XXYUS	0590108433	891618656	The Great Ice Battle (Secrets of Droon, 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Can't Wait for the Next book!	Evil Lord Sparr has frozen all of Jaffa City up and it is up to Eric, Neal, Julie, and Princess Keeah to save Jaffa City and the rest of Droon. If the problem isn't hard enough already the only weapon they have is snowballs! The problem gets worse when the great wizard Galen Longbeard is frozen up. Will the kids save Jaffa City? Can they unfreeze Galen Longbeard? I highly recommend this book because it is a great page turner!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R3FJQMEI4247DJ	0590485318	180453466	The Journal of Ben Uchida: Citizen 13559, Mirror Lake Internment Camp	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Very vivid details!	This book was written in very vivid detail as it talks about the injustice to the Japanese people during World War II. Ben finds it hard to be squeezed into a little hut with another family and having practicly no privacy. School is impossible as you can even hear the teachers because there are no soundproof walls and you can hear what the teachers are talking about in the next room. This is a great book about how a young boy has to deal with living in a camp.	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R1XFMPDK64CMUF	1556616740	46906946	Mandie and the Dark Alley (Mandie, Book 33)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another great Mandie	This was another great title in the Mandie series. Mandie and her friend Cecila decide to go through the creepy and dark alley to get back to school on time. However when the girls get spooked Mandie's bracelet falls off. The next time they go back to the ally they find Mandie's bracelet and Mandie feels there is something very weird about the alley. Around the same time valueable items disappear all around town. Could the dark alley be connected to all this? Another great Mandie mystery.	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R195VN5O4FMA2R	0439088208	329369869	Valley of the Moon: the Diary of Mara Rosalia de Milagros	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very Suspenseful Book!	This is a great book about thirteen year old Maria Rosalia De Milagros. She works on the Medinas ranch in Alta California. Secretly keeping a diary she writes down her thoughts and emotions into her prized posession. Maria only family is her brother Domingo. However the other servants in the house also feel like her family. She is also very close to Senor Medina, Grabriela, Senor Johnston, Nelly Johnston, and has secret feeling for Senor Johnston's newphew Walter. However even though she is very close to all these people she still wants to know about her parents. The only thing she knows is that her mother died of smallpox and her father was a white man. Maria is sure however that Padre Ygnacio holds the answer to her questions. When she does get a letter telling her about her past she finds that she is linked closer to the Medinas( a family she adores ) than she ever thought. To find out about the rest of the book read it! This is really a great book!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2I96O1709A8SI	0439207843	451957597	Quest for the Queen (Secrets of Droon #10)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Book that I enjoy ...	This was a great book about the kids quest to be the first ones to make it to the island with the prize that will be recieved by the deserving winner of race. However the kids run into trouble when they find that Queen Relna has been captured by 2 evil magicians sent by the evil sea wizard Demither. Will that kids get to the island in time to get the prize that will save Queen Relna? I highly recommend this book to any age group because it really is very enjoyable and fun! Thank you Tony Abbott!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2CI2Q6A2V8EQU	0590226533	246391530	The Winter of Red Snow: The Revolutionary War Diary of Abigail Jane Stewart, Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, 1777 (Dear America)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beautiful Edition to Dear America	Revolutionary War fans can't miss reading this book.In this book 11-year-old Abigail Stuart recoreds all the happening as her town turns into an army camp for the General George Washington. I felt like I was in the army camp with Abigail and Mrs. Washington when I was reading this book. It had very vivid details on how bad the army camp's condition was. The soliders lacked clothing, food, clean living conditions, etc. The camps smelled horrible. Abigail is touched by all this but she doesn't like how the army treats soliders who run away because they just wanted a better living. However she is greatful to the army for protecting her family from the British and she looks up tho Mrs. Washington very much. This is a great book that was written with great detail! All Dear America fans will enjoy this book.	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R1O3SHFRGMASLT	0590684892	911704385	The Journal of Augustus Pelletier: The Lewis and Clark Expedition, 1804 (My Name is America)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Had vivid detail but sometimes too much	This was a pretty good book about the Lewis and Clark expedition in a young boy's view. However at times the book was a little bit boring because I think the author went in too vivid of detail on things many kids can't understand like me. However I think the adventures they had on the trip was very real like the encounter with the grizzly be Augustus. I recommend this book because it will teach you a lot about the Lewis and Clark Expedition but there will be places that will be hard to understand.	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R24HZBTSQWPXVI	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best one so far.....	It was nice to see that book four was 734 pages long, knowing it was the last book before the 'dry spell' while waiting for Hogwarts year 5 to be released in 2002. This book is very juicy in storylines. The book starts out with some very strange happenings at the Qudditch World cup when the Dark Mark is seen.( I won't tell you what the dark mark is or I ruin the suspense!) As most people know there will be no Quidditch this year at Hogworts but to make that up they will have the Triwizard Tournement. They haven't had this event in hundreds of years due to the amount of injuries and deaths to the participants. The suspense continues when Harry somehow gets into the tournament even though he is underage.<br />In this book J.K. also introduced a new character know as Mad-Eye Moody who is the new defense against dark arts teacher who seems to have quite a liking and interest in Harry. As the Triwizard Tournament progress the storylines definelty get much more juicier. As the final event approaches it looks like all the contestants from the three schools are in contention. However the best part of this book isn't until the very very end as there will be a big surprise!!! I don't want to spoil anymore of the book so you will have to read the book! All I can say is after reading the ending of book 4 I can't wait for the return of the Harry Potter books in 2002!!!!	2001-07-31
US	43152633	R2HSPKS901DPVJ	038081532X	73409111	Zoey Comes Home (Making Out)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Book but Flawed	First thing I have to say is I am really disappointed and mad that KA decided to end the series on book #28. She could have written a lot more! I will really miss reading about Zoey, Lucas, Nina, Benjamin, Claire, Paolo, Christopher, Aisha and all the others. Now back to this book. For starters I think this book was a great book. However this book wasn't a very good book for ending a series. It left so many things unanswered that it drives me crazy! Here are some:<br />1.Will Nina and Benjamin ever get back together? KA shouldn't have left us wondering! 2.What happend to Jake in the last book? He wasn't even mentioned! 3.What happened to Kate and Aaron? 4.Did Lucas finally go to college? There are many questions that are left answered that I am just so disappointed! I give this book four stars because it was really a very good book to read, but it was written like just another book in the series and not an ending book where we get all our questions answered! There could easily have been another book written after this one!	2001-07-27
US	43152633	R19JT9R4JAC62B	0439115280	814098577	Animorphs #54: The Beginning	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Surprise Ending but very flawed!	This was probably the worst way for KA to end the animorphs series. .... KA left so many questions unanswered. This isn't the way she writes. What happend to the animorph's parents and Toby? The surprise ending I think was really stupid too. I gave this book three stars because of the 53 others books in this series I enjoyed.	2001-07-26
US	43152633	R353VLB1NHE9ME	0590684841	416913226	Elizabeth I: Red Rose of the House of Tudor, England, 1544 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Great Book!	This is a great book to start out the Royal Diaries series! This book talks about the hardships of Elizabeth's early childhood and how she was known as the &quot;forgotten princess&quot; This is a must-read!	2001-07-23
US	43152633	R2OPAPR1CV3MOJ	0439139597	517423309	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I can't wait for the next one!	I don't get why some people say this book is bad for kids. I think this is a perfectly great book. It really lived up to all the hype with the great Triwizard Tournament! I can't wait for the next one to come because now Voldemart is back!	2001-07-23
US	43152633	R3AOJH213K4J9B	0590972162	201754499	The Girl Who Chased Away Sorrow: The Diary of Sarah Nita, a Navajo Girl, New Mexico, 1864 (Dear America)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Great Book!	This is another great Dear America book about how young Sara Nita has the courage and strength to make the long jouney to Fort Sumner.	2001-07-20
US	43152633	R3LGP6EHMPWW94	0152019065	29347266	Mary, Bloody Mary: A Young Royals Book	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great book about Mary	This was a very good book explaining how a soft fragile girl could have turned into one of the most hated monarchs in England's history.<br />The story starts as Mary's father starts courting the Anne Boyeln. As a father neglects her mother and decides to marry Anne Mary's world fall apart. She is declared illegitimate and called a &quot;bastard.&quot; As if things could get any worse Mary is made to baby-sit her new half-sister Elizabeth.<br />This is a really good book about how a lonely girl became one of the most hated queens in history. I also recommend to peple who like this book to read the Dear America Series!	2001-07-20
US	43152633	RXZL0Z2AZ5UML	0590511599	694394294	Color Me Dark: The Diary of Nellie Lee Love, the Great Migration North (Dear America)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Great Book about Seregation in the South!	~This is a great book about a girl named Nellie Lee Love who lived during a time when blacks were treated very unfairly compared to whites. She lived in the seregated town of Bradford Corners. Even though life wasn't very good in the seregated town it was bearable until Nellie Lee's Uncle Pace was killed. The police said he was drunk and accidentaly stepped in front of a moving train but in the Love's hearts they know that isn't true. When finally they learn the truth Nellie Lee's dad decides he~~ can't stand it anymore so  he tells the family he has decided to move to Chicago. Nellie Lee and the rest of her family must face many different new challenges in Chicago. This book is a must read!~	2001-07-20
US	43152633	R1HVD8GP7MD4EC	0590228625	865753481	When Will This Cruel War Be Over?: The Civil War Diary of Emma Simpson, Gordonsville, Virginia, 1864 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The First In A Promising New Series	The Civil War changed 14-year-old  Emma Simpson's life forever. The civil war tears her family apart as it also tears apart her beloved country. Day by day life becomes more dreary as the deaths in her family pile up. When her brother's body shows up at the doorstop she learns of his tragic death and can't shut out the inevitable feel and sight of death that has taken over her town since the war began. The only thing she can hope for is that the Lord would not take anymore of her family members away. However things don't go her way. Her mother is sick as well, and her only friend is slowing going mad with all the casulaties and deaths caused by the war. I find that the title When Will This Cruel War Be Over is the best way to describe Emma's feeling as the days drag with the stench of death in her town. The book in many ways was very depressing but the hope in Emma is one of the very lone bight stars in the book. This first book in the Dear America series starts a very promising series. I recommend all book who like fiction to read it!	2001-07-20
US	43152633	RAGLXT5VLYV7O	0590687158	363815133	My Secret War: The World War II Diary of Madeline Beck, Long Island, New York 1941 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Great Book from Dear America	This is another really great book from Dear America! I recommend it to anybody. This book is about Madeline and she has just moved to Long Island. Basically it just talks about how she tries to help out during a war and in the end she basically saves Long Island. Read It!!!	2001-07-12
US	43152633	RWAX53WBCFIWH	0590738887	869976072	West to a Land of Plenty: The Diary of Teresa Angelino Viscardi, New York to Idaho Territory, 1883 (Dear America)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great!	In the spring of 1883, fourteen-year-old Teresa Viscardi and her large Italian-American family leave their home in New York City and  head west to Idaho to participate in a new community called Opportunity. However Teresa hates the ides. She wants to return to New York City, where everything is familiar and orderly. Instead, she's on a crowded train, and then on a covered wagon caravan, with her annoying family. She most despises her younger sister Netta for always reading her diary. But when tragedy strikes, Teresa realizes how much her family means to her. Since at that time her father was away because of a gold strike Teresa may be the only one who can save her big family from all parishing. This was another great book and full of details on the hardships of the journey west and the hopes of one young girl!	2001-07-12
US	43152633	R2ZA6VXLR1W1HQ	0590962736	528139782	Voyage on the Great Titanic: The Diary of Margaret Ann Brady, R.M.S. Titanic 1912 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Another Great Book!	This book was interesting in its own way because it showed how a poor girl got a stroke of luck and got to travel with a rich lady on the grand Titanic. I really thought the author wrote this book really well and I have to say the storyline with Robbie was great! A must-read!	2001-07-12
US	43152633	R2LZY4Y9HO39QA	0439129095	170402071	Kaiulani: The People's Princess, Hawaii, 1889	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The People's Princess	This is another pretty good book about a Hawaii princess called Victoria Cleghorn. During the time she grows up as princess Hawaii is being taken over by the United States. Victoria goes to England to study and she hopes on day her studies can help her rule her people. Unfornately America has already decided to annex Hawaii. Victoria makes a daring journey to America to talk to the president but her words are no use. This is a sad book about a princess who never became queen but sure had a heart to be one.	2001-07-12
US	43152633	R2JEV38I63OGTZ	0590819755	602603328	Cleopatra VII: Daughter of the Nile, Egypt, 57 B.C. (The Royal Diaries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Beautiful New Book	In this book 12-year-old Cleopatra records her thoughts as she sees how their familie's empire is falling apart. Her older sister Tryphanea steals the throne from her father while he is away and Cleopatra know is plotting to kill her. Cleopatra barely escapes Alexandria with her father as they flee to Rome for help against Tryphanea. Cleopatra is much disappointed at her father for she thinks he is very cowardly as he has attracted a drinking problem. She despises the Romans as she feels the streets are dirty and filtly. In her diary you can truly feel a homesick young girls thoughts. All she can hope for is when she can return to her beloved Alexandria. This 2nd book in the Royal Diaries collection is one of the best yet!	2001-07-12
US	43152633	RV559PTXOGU0D	0439076668	396904734	The Royal Diaries: Marie Antoinette, Princess of Versailles, Austria-France, 1769 (The Royal Diaries)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	great book about the last french queen	This is a great book that focuses on the anticipation of Maria Antonia being the queen of France. The young Maria has to learn everything about the French court and at times finds herself overwhelmed. But she dreams that she will have a very handsome husband. However Maria is very disappointed when she does meet her future husband but vows to always be his trustful friend.	2001-07-12
US	43152633	R1JIDTZISLMS34	0439095182	446423964	One Eye Laughing, The Other Eye Weeping: The Diary of Julie Weiss, Vienna, Austria to New York 1938 (Dear America Series)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great Book about the Holocaust	The year is 1938. Julie's Weiss's life couldn't be better. Her father is a great doctor and her mother a diva. Her only small worry is Hitler. However things get much worse as the year progresses as Hitler takes over Austria. Her life changes dramaticly as she finds her former friends and confidonts have rejected her family because they are Jews. In Part I of her diary Julie records the voilence and termoil in her much changed Austria. However she is thankful that at least danger has not reached her family until one night the secret Nazi police take all her family away except her. Thankfully they are retured but somehow they are changed people. Because of this one night her brother runs away and her mother commits suicide. The only way out now for Julie and her dad now is to go to America where her aunt and uncle live. However Julie is to make the jouney alone because her father wants to help his patients in Austria.<br />In Part II of Julie's Diary she is in America. Everything seems so changed. However life gets better when she lands a lead role in a play on Broadway with the help of her aunt who is also an actress. Julie couldn't be happier. Her biggest hope is that one day her family will be reunited again. This was a great book about the hardships of a young girls life in the Holocaust but it also shows that things can always change for the better. Barry Deneberg did a great job depicting the Holcaust. Thank you!	2001-07-12
US	43152633	R3Q95XWNV16CM8	0439112109	110762536	Nzingha: Warrior Queen of Matamba, Angola, Africa, 1595	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not the Best	I have read many Dear America books and this is my least favorite so far I have to admit. I mean you are suppose to learn about Angola and all that but since this book was so short I don't really know that much about the whole plot yet. I mean it was really too short for you to understand the plot. Just not one of the best books I have ever read.	2001-07-12
