US	43180312	RZLPLGHIX2AQH	0385336179	902335429	Shopaholic Ties the Knot (Shopaholic, No 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Planning a wedding (or two!) can be stressful	Hopefully you've acquainted yourself with the spending habits (it's a sickness really) and rationalizations of one Becky Bloomwood in Kinsella's series Confessions of a Shopaholic and Shopaholic Takes Manhattan. In this 2003 follow-up, Becky is up to her old habits by the 8th page, where she finds a lovely antique trunk for her best friends Suze and Tarquin as their wedding gift. But why not also get an antique cocktail cabinet for her and Luke, a combined total of $800!<br />Becky's been living in New York with her handsome, successful boyfriend Luke for about a year while she works at Barney's as (you guessed it) a personal shopper. Now engaged, Becky and Luke are getting married in 5 months and Becky's not going to get carried away. Yeah, right! Her mum's very excited about doing the planning herself back in England. However Luke's upper-crust birthmother, Elinor, is causing tension between everyone with her above-it-all attitude. Elinor is hosting an engagement party (well, that's ok), has hired her own wedding planner (without consulting Becky and knowing full-well there's another wedding being planned in England) and has booked The Plaza! You heard me, The Plaza! Plus the little fact that the owner of Becky and Luke's apartment building is selling, forcing them to move. So far, very stressful. Wait, it gets worse (or better, for the reader). One the one hand, obviously, The Plaza. On the other hand, a wedding back home in England with her family and friends, familiar surroundings, her home. And her mum's so into the planning. She's had her house interior re-done! Which wedding will Becky choose? In which country will they exchange their vows? How long will she wait to make a decision? How many dresses will she buy?<br />Here's a little taste:<BR>\\"This isn't exactly how I pictured my engagement party would be. First of all the door people try to stop me going in. Then I don't know anybody. Then the only things to eat are low-fat, high-protein cubes of fish and,even then, the wait staff look taken aback when you actually eat them.\\"<br />At the Bridal Shop:<BR>Cynthia smiles at us and surveys her clipboard. \\"So we're after something either simple or elaborate, with sleeves or strapless, possibly with beading and/or embroidery and either with a train or without.\\"<br />\\"Exactly!\\" My eye follows hers around the shop. \\"But you know I'm quite flexible.\\"<br />\\"How many have I tried on now?\\"<BR>\\"That takes us up to . . . thirty-five.\\"<BR>\\"And how many have I marked so far as possibles?\\"<BR>\\"Thirty-two.\\"<BR>\\"Really?\\" I look up in surprise. \\"Which ones didn't I like?\\"<br />Sophie Kinsella's books are so well written. Not everyone can write humor. Some characters are outrageous while others you'd be proud to call your friend. I've enjoyed all three Shopaholic books, laughing all the way, and can't wait to read her next series.	2004-01-03
US	43180312	RAR2ZUUXQ06YX	1582342695	304564263	How to Cook a Tart	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Decadent, but a bit dumb	Cookbook author Jasmine March is a pleasant, rotund woman. &quot;Of all the herbs, Jasmine thought, basil was her soul mate.&quot; The story begins in Jasmine's kitchen where she finds a young girl dead on her kitchen floor, a brownie stuffed in her mouth. Jasmine's main concern is the well being of her favorite rolling pin. The rest is a flashback leading up to the present with an over-the-top conclusion.<br />Jasmine's motto: To feast well is the best revenge. Too bad her publisher doesn't agree, feeling that Jasmine's latest cookbook had more fat content than a McDonald's deep-fryer. In a diet-obsessed world, Jasmine struggles to find a home for her unique and decadent recipes, full of rich butter creams, chocolates, sauces, everything we as a society try to avoid rather than indulge. Jasmine and her husband Daniel are pushing 40 and seemingly happy, until Daniel begins an affair with one of his acting students, Tina, a young, skinny disciple of the Zone diet. Jasmine's 16-year-old daughter Careme, also nothing like her mother, is an anorexic with a pet python, obsessed with losing her virginity. She finally meets a potential candidate who's actually attracted to her fat mother!<br />Nina Killham's debut novel is enjoyable only because of the occasional humor, but mostly for its mouth-watering food content, the food we all want but avoid like the plague. But reading about rich food is safe and fun: it doesn't affect the width of one's waistline! The story itself moves along smoothly until the ending, which was a bit too outrageous for me. If you're desperate to read something, anything, while waiting for a better book to become available, ok then.	2003-12-27
US	43180312	R2T4ACFNGVXKZM	0553802518	943340840	The Survivors Club	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Authentic Characters in a Great Mystery	The Survivors Club members are three women. All very different, but with one thing in common: all were assaulted by the same man, Eddie Como, a.k.a. The College Hill Serial Killer. Meg, a young college co-ed and Eddie's first victim, has suffered complete loss of memory from the trauma. Carol, a high-society East side wife, has pretty much lost her mind and possibly her husband. Jillian, a successful businesswoman, actually interrupted as Eddie Como killed her younger sister. Together, they've joined forces, with Jillian as their spokesperson, and formed a tight support group who went public with press conferences and the determination to get the public riled up enough to make a difference. They became activists and actually helped the police catch Eddie Como.<br />One year later, Eddie Como is about to stand trial for his crimes. The hired gun who took him out at the courthouse seems to have made a clean getaway. Or has he? Just a few blocks away, this hired gun is also blown away.<br />The lead investigator is Detective Sergeant Roan Griffin of the Rhode Island State PD. His first day back on the job after an 18-month &quot;mental leave&quot; and this is what he's faced with. He teams up with Detective &quot;Fitz&quot; Fitzpatrick of the Providence PD. Fitz was the lead investigator on the original College Hill case. He's &quot;a detective from the old school. Ate doughnuts for breakfast and informants for lunch.&quot; Another girl has been killed and, according to the police, DNA evidence points to only one man: the late Eddie Como!<br />An excellent mystery with very real and authentic characters. The story twists and turns, keeping you on your toes until the grand finale. The best characters are the three women of The Survivors Club. They're not your typical victims, but strong-willed, determined women who never stop until they've reached their goals. But what exactly is their goal? Read The Survivors Club and find out.	2003-12-25
US	43180312	R37ZX9VDM9IMFH	0446530727	895937790	How to Meet Cute Boys	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Chic-Lit with Cosmo Appeal	Deanna Kizis, West Coast Editor at Elle magazine, delivers a cute and entertaining debut addition to the chic-lit genre. Although the advice and dating policies are not what I'd take to heart, this remains a light, humorous break from the real world.<br />27-year-old Benjamina Franklin (a.k.a. Ben) is a journalist at a successful woman's magazine, which gives her almost instant access to the hottest parties and social events in L.A. You'd think finding a boyfriend would be easy. Wrong. As Ben continues her neurotic search, she must deal with the jealousy she feels towards her younger sister who's now engaged, her not-so-helpful friends (one of whom is an analytical psychology student), her boss who's always looking for a new and romantic article from Ben, and Ben's mother. You'll just have to read about Ben's mother. You wouldn't believe me if I told you!<br />The chic-lit genre is becoming very popular among women, probably in their 20s and 30s. This addition is light, refreshing and funny at times. What I thought was unique, were the numorous Cosmo-like quizes and dating tips added throughout the story. For me, this book provided a nice break from the heavier reading I also enjoy.	2003-12-07
US	43180312	R2M6LX7CGZIED1	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Crazy Characters and Christmas Miracles	Journalist Tom Langdon loved adventure. Disappointed with &quot;the human condition&quot; he decides to take the train from Washington DC to L.A. in time to spend Christmas with his bi-coastal girlfriend, Lelia, a former third-rate horror actress turned award-winning cartoon character voice artist. Tom, at 41, felt that &quot;half his time on Earth was gone, and all he had to show for it was a failed marriage, no offspring, an informal alliance with a California voiceover queen, a truckload of newsprint, and some awards. By any reasonable measure, it was a miserable excuse for an existence.&quot;<br />Tom's taking the train due to a 2-year ban from flying in the U.S. as a result of an unfortunate security incident at La Guardia. He's going to take the train and write a story about traveling by rail during the Christmas season as a last request from his father, finish what his ancestor, Mark Twain, didn't. &quot;Do the Langdon side of the family proud.&quot; He had about 3,000 miles of America to find himself during the holiday, a time of renewal. As you can guess, he gets much more than he bargained for.<br />With a host of colorful characters, The Christmas Train is a fun adventure for the holidays. It's filled with surprises, including an elopement, a thief, a terrible snowstorm and of course, some second chances and Christmas miracles. You'll enjoy this light-hearted holiday tale.	2003-11-27
US	43180312	R24TW6FBD5JGW7	0316782262	563997838	All He Ever Wanted	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Love, Lies and Secrets	&quot;I set out to win the hand of the woman whose voice and hair and skin seemed to have permeated every membrane of my body and breached every boundary of my soul.&quot; - Nicholas Van Tassel, 1899.<br />This story is delivered as a recollection by Nicholas Van Tassel, now 64 years old, on his way to Florida by train to attend his sister's funeral. Along his journey Nicholas replays the past in his mind, putting his memoirs to paper. He recalls his past and the choices he's made over the years while reflecting the consequences of those choices.<br />It all took place in New Hampshire, 1899. It started with that terrible fire in the hotel's restaurant. How ironic that what started with a tragedy should end similarly. As fate would have it, Nicholas was dining at that restaurant. Beyond the smoke and chaos, he notices Etna Bliss and is instantly smitten by her. Etna is staying with her uncle who teaches at the same men's college as Nicholas. A courtship begins and quickly progresses until Nicholas proclaims his love for Etna and asks for her hand in marriage. Completely honest with her feelings, Etna agrees to the marriage, although she does not love Nicholas. Fourteen years and two children later, secrets will be revealed and lies will be told, putting this family to the ultimate test.<br />I liked Nicholas in the beginning. A true romantic, seeking out the woman he loves. Later, as he turned desperately conniving, I despised him and his obsession with his nemesis Philip Asher. In the end, I only pitied him. Until the end, which I will not reveal, Etna was a very likeable character. She was very independent and modern-day, especially for a turn-of-the-century woman. I enjoyed the language and tone used in the writing of this piece, finding it easy to follow and enjoyable. However, the story itself left a little to be desired.	2003-11-16
US	43180312	R1GNUCU2ZDAXNN	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Psychologically Thrilling Masterpiece	\\"There are threads, threads in our lives. You pull one, and everything else gets affected.\\" - Jimmy Marcus<br />Mystic River is much more than a good crime story. It's more about people. Family, friends and neighbors. It's about the human psyche. How we deal with our pasts, our secrets, our fears and our demons. It's a story of revenge. Or perhaps it's a story of justice. The Mystic River actually exists in Boston and acts as one of the main characters here, providing the dramatic backdrop for many scenes and events. The river flows near the Irish-American streets of Boston, a working-class neighborhood where three friends began their lives and remained, becoming permanent fixtures in the community.<br />In 1975 Jimmy Marcus, Sean Devine and Dave Boyle were those three friends. Friends until Dave got into that car with two strangers, escaping four days later forever changed. Although the details were never discussed, that event became a defining moment in all three lives. Twenty-five years later . . . Jimmy, an ex-con with mob connections, lost his first wife to cancer during his two-year stretch at Deer Island Correctional. Straight now for fifteen years, he has a new wife and three daughters. But his past remains with him, ready to explode like a loose cannon. Sean is a homicide detective just coming off a suspension and is still in love with his wife who walked out on him a year ago. Dave, married with a son, tries to be a good husband and father, but is tormented by the demons born in his past, trying desperately to keep them submerged.<br />When Jimmy's oldest daughter Katie is murdered, the three boyhood friends a thrown face-to-face again. In their own way, they each share in the tragedy of Katie's death as well as that terrible day back when they were eleven years old. The questions loom throughout their lives. What if Dave never got into that car? What if Jimmy and Sean got into that car with Dave?<br />Dennis Lehane writes in a way that pulls the reader deep within the conscious and subconscious minds of the three main characters, as well as the others. You can actually FEEL what each character is experiencing and what they're thinking. Never before have I felt such literary characters so completely. I wasn't familiar with Lehane's writing before, but am SO grateful I picked up this one.ep within the conscious and subconscious minds of the three main characters, as well as the others. You can actually FEEL what each character is experiencing and what they're thinking. Never before have I felt such literary characters so completely. I wasn't familiar with Lehane's writing before, but am SO grateful I picked up this one.	2003-11-08
US	43180312	R3OH39HFCQGKYE	0312983271	746882277	Full House (Max Holt No. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Early Evanovich with Great Characters	If you're expecting something along the lines of the Stephanie Plum mysteries, this book is not for you. Full House must be viewed on its own. It's not as action-packed as Evanovich's more recent best sellers, although there's some action and a car does in fact get blown to bits. Full House, originally published in 1989 under the pen name Steffie Hall, is obviously the same author we love so much, but in her earlier days.<br />Nick Kaharchek has a playboy reputation, owns a newspaper and a stable, teaching polo as a hobby. He typically enjoys the company of elegant, sophisticated, well-breed women. That is, until he meets Billie Pearce, divorced mother of two, 6th grade teacher, who comes for polo lessons as part of her recent get-into-shape program. Although the attraction is unlikely for them both, it is most definitely mutual. Following this romance is dangerously fun.<br />Full House is witty, with plenty of steamy romance. Although it's a simply story without much depth, it's Janet Evanovich's characters that keep you interested. The characters are extremely vivid, likeable and very memorable. For example, Nick's cousin Deedee, a rich, spoiled, ex-beauty queen, sweet but dim-witted. Nick cons Billie into letting Deedee stay with her for a couple weeks until her wedding to professional wrestler Frankie The Assassin. Also beware of Deedee's 16-year-old brother, Max, a young genius, animal rights activist, who likes to blow things up to get attention. There's also Nick's ex-fiance Sheridan to contend with. And Raoul, the bug-guy who tries to please everyone in the neighborhood, but isn't too good at his job. There's bugs everywhere.<br />Keep yourself from comparing this to Evanovich's latest mysteries and you should enjoy it like I did.	2003-11-01
US	43180312	R1TC6OUFT7INEJ	0312983271	746882277	Full House (Max Holt No. 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Early Evanovich with Great Characters	If you're expecting something along the lines of the Stephanie Plum mysteries, this book is not for you. Full House must be viewed on its own. It's not as action-packed as Evanovich's more recent best sellers, although there's some action and a car does in fact get blown to bits. Full House, originally published in 1989 under the pen name Steffie Hall, is obviously the same author we love so much, but in her earlier days.<br />Nick Kaharchek has a playboy reputation, owns a newspaper and a stable, teaching polo as a hobby. He typically enjoys the company of elegant, sophisticated, well-breed women. That is, until he meets Billie Pearce, divorced mother of two, 6th grade teacher, who comes for polo lessons as part of her recent get-into-shape program. Although the attraction is unlikely for them both, it is most definitely mutual. Following this romance is dangerously fun.<br />Full House is witty, with plenty of steamy romance. Although it's a simply story without much depth, it's Janet Evanovich's characters that keep you interested. The characters are extremely vivid, likeable and very memorable. For example, Nick's cousin Deedee, a rich, spoiled, ex-beauty queen, sweet but dim-witted. Nick cons Billie into letting Deedee stay with her for a couple weeks until her wedding to professional wrestler Frankie The Assassin. Also beware of Deedee's 16-year-old brother, Max, a young genius, animal rights activist, who likes to blow things up to get attention. There's also Nick's ex-fiance Sheridan to contend with. And Raoul, the bug-guy who tries to please everyone in the neighborhood, but isn't too good at his job. There's bugs everywhere.<br />Keep yourself from comparing this to Evanovich's latest mysteries and you should enjoy it like I did.	2003-11-01
US	43180312	R37F2B32XDOHOI	0446530808	451264257	Thief of Words	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Debut novel has a way with words	In 1982, Annie Hollerman had a great job at a North Carolina newspaper and, at 26, showed great promise as a journalist. With fiery red hair, she was not a great beauty but had enough looks and brains to make a difference. Until one horrible mistake changed everything.<br />Twenty years later, Annie runs a literary agency in Washington DC. Two years divorced, Annie's long-time friend wants to fix her up with Jack DePaul, editor at the Baltimore Star-News. Jack is also divorced and has a grown son. He has a passion for good writing and loves words. &quot;A part of Annie wanted to say yes. But there was always another part, a bigger part, that warned her to steer clear of her past and anyone who might pry it open.&quot; Stay away from journalists.<br />Reluctantly, Annie and Jack have a blind date, which goes so well it surprises them both. Between dates, Jack woos Annie with eloquent and romantic e-mails, creating a new and imaginary history between them. But when the past and present collide, where will it leave Annie and Jack?<br />What captivated me most was timing. Coincidentally, I stumbled across this book as I was getting to know someone new in my life. I could easily relate to the first date butterflies, flirtatious e-mails and first kiss anticipation.<br />Witty romance written by a man? Well, almost. John Jaffe is actually a pseudonym for the husband and wife writing team of John Muncie and Jody Jaffe. This is their first book, which is also based on their meeting and romance. &quot;It's the prequel to our current lives.&quot; A very good story that includes wit, romance, friendship and honesty. Just good writing from a new and welcome talent.	2003-10-24
US	43180312	R1ODENIQWZVAHY	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Best debut EVER, cried more than once	&quot;I was murdered on December 6, 1973,&quot; is the voice of 14-year-old Susie Salmon, ripped from this Earth at an age too young. Susie narrates this heartfelt and illuminating tale as she watches over those she's left behind. Her father, obsessed with finding Susie's killer. Her mother, withdrawn from everything and everyone. Lindsey, her 13-year-old sister, seemingly a pillar of strength, but completely numb on the inside. Buckley, their 4-year-old brother, who misses Susie and incessantly asks for her. The persistent Detective Len Fenerman. Ruth Connors, a girl from school whom Susie grazes as she leaves the Earth. Ray Singh, who had a crush on Susie and was the source of her first and only kiss. Susie also follows the movements of her killer. Through Susie's death, all of these lives will be forever entwined.<br />In the first chapter's narrative of the murder, there is just enough descriptive detail to get under your skin, forcing you to take a break in an effort to shake the images from your head.<br />Susie discovers that, now dead, &quot;life is perpetual yesterday.&quot; She describes &quot;my Heaven&quot; as being different for everyone, but often overlapping with the Heaven of someone else. &quot;You're given your simplest dreams&quot; in Heaven. There are no teachers in the school and the textbooks included Glamour and Vogue. Susie observes and listens, but cannot interact with Earth. &quot;All this made me crazy,&quot; she says, &quot;watching but not being able to steer the police.&quot; Although sometimes frustrated with her inability to communicate with Earth, Susie seems oddly at peace. Perhaps she hadn't yet accepted her fate.<br />Alice Sebold pens an incredibly well written story. More than just a story of a young girl who has died, The Lovely Bones is a journey of discovery, not only for Susie in her afterlife, but also for the family and friends who survived her, left behind, among the living. Certainly the best debut novel I've read, ever.	2003-10-17
US	43180312	R3A53WSJMZT3KE	0786867655	704251230	Cranberry Queen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Quick and Easy. Nicely Done.	At 33, New York City professional Diana Moore is already grieving over an ex-boyfriend referred to only as \\"The Monster\\" who couldn't stand to be with her any longer. Suddenly thrown into a deeper hopelessness when her parents and only brother are tragically killed in a car accident, Diana quits her job, jumps in her Volvo and takes off for parts unknown. She runs into Rosie (literally), a 70-year-old woman on a motorcycle and her granddaughter Louisa in a part of New Jersey she's never seen before, the \\"Paradise\\" New Jersey Pine Barrens, where blueberries and cranberry grow abundantly and the harvest party is the event of the year. Diana doesn't tell her new friends the truth of why she'd run off, although they suspect that she's troubled over something, \\"probably a guy,\\" they say. Diana attempts to lose herself in this wondrous Cranberry Country, developing an unlikely friendship and life-long bond with Louisa and her family, and copes with her own emotions and despair.<br />A quick and easy read, nothing too eloquent or challenging. The quick dialogue and character development carry you through as well as the descriptive landscapes of the cranberry bogs and their harvest. This is film producer Kathleen DeMarco's first novel.	2003-10-06
US	43180312	R3BC90LW1PSOL9	0375502912	678550726	Seabiscuit: An American Legend	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent, excellent	Written like a heartfelt fiction novel, author Laura Hillenrand takes us back to an era when Americas most popular cultural icon had four legs and drew more newspaper coverage than Roosevelt, Hitler, Mussolini, or any other newsmaker.<br />Racehorse owner Charles Howard, an automobile baron, hired trainer Tom Smith and sent him searching for a bargain animal whose talent had been overlooked, Smith searched numerous racetracks unable to find what he was looking for. On June 29, 1936, at Suffolk Downs in Massachusetts, the horse found him. The horses name was Seabiscuit, a 3-year-old cold with crooked forelegs, knobby knees and a lazy disposition. He was often mistaken for lameness. But Smith saw something no one else saw. This horse had heart. Jockey Red Pollard, a failed boxer, was down in his luck until he joined Team Seabiscuit. Individually, this horse and these men wouldnt amount to much. Together, their unlikely alliance would make history.<br />Throughout this wonderful story we learn of the dangerous life of the jockey, their weight loss regimens, Red Pollards handicap and his critical injuries. We see Charles Howards rise to success in California and his friendship with the elite, including Bing Crosby. Also, theres Tom Smiths gift of understanding and training the most difficult horses.<br />In the Winter of 1937, America was in the seventh year of the most catastrophic decade in its history. America was desperate to lose itself in anything that offered affirmation. With the relegalization of wagering, no sport was growing faster than Thoroughbred racing. In six years, Seabiscuit had won 33 races and set 13 track records. He earned world record prize money as well. Finally in 1938 the Biscuit was named Horse of the Year.	2003-08-30
US	43180312	RLWNHVI79Y21P	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not her best, but still addictive	Jersey Girl Stephanie Plum is back and she's looking for a missing Indian man named Samuel Singh. Stephanie works for her bailbondsman cousin Vinnie. \\"Vinnie sat on a rotting branch of my family tree.\\" He's a pervert, a con man and a paranoid grouch. He's like Louie De Palma on TV's Taxi. Vinnie wrote the bond ensuring that Singh would leave the country when his work visa expired. Now that Singh's missing (along with Boo the Cockapoo), Vinnie's in a tailspin and assigns Stephanie to work with the sexy and mysterious Ranger to find Singh. Ranger, once Special Forces, is Vinnie's top gun. \\"He has a lot of muscle and a skill level somewhere between Batman and Rambo.\\" Although Stephanie is in a somewhat comfortable relationship with Trenton's hunk-cop Joe Morelli, there's a history with Ranger that makes both Stephanie and Morelli a little edgy. \\"Ranger sometimes works a tad too far left of the law.\\"<br />Singh was working at TriBro Tech in quality control. A real computer geek. So, after someone breaks into Steph's apartment and leaves flowers and a threat, she shacks up with Morelli and Bob the dog. Some guy gets shot just inches from Steph, she gets shot with a tranquilizer dart and is getting threatening e-mails. Just part of the job.<br />Following a lead on Singh, Steph, Lula and Connie head to Las Vegas where they encounter a convention of 1,400 Elvis impersonators and a show featuring a Tom Jones impersonator. Who knew the 2 groups didn't get along? There's also a Cher impersonator (with a beard and mustache). Needless to say, there was an incident. \\"Lula's a plus-size black woman in a size-seven white world.\\" For readers who know Lula, picture her . . . now picture her on a diet. Connie, the office manager, is \\"a small, Italian version of Mae West.\\" Imagine this trio in Vegas.<br />Also, Steph's sister Valerie is 9 months pregnant and living with their parents, her 2 daughters and Grandma Mazur. It's getting pretty crowded. There's been 3 murders and don't forget Morelli's Grandma Belle and her scary visions and evil eye.<br />I didn't laugh aloud as much as usual, but still enjoyed this 9th book in the Stephanie Plum series. After reading all the others, I'm just totally addicted to the characters.	2003-08-29
US	43180312	R3M4U8V20JKGX	038550926X	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Disappointment	Twenty-three year old Andrea Sachs dreams of writing for The New Yorker. Fresh out of college, she lands a job in Manhattan as assistant to the powerful Miranda Priestly, editor of the successful fashion magazine Runway. Although her writing abilities won't be utilized, all Andrea hears from everyone she meets is that she's landed the job \\"a million girls would die for.\\" Supposedly, \\"people who worked for Miranda got places.\\" The position is more of a college-educated messenger. But if Andrea can hang in there for 1 year, she's sure to get a great promotion. However, 1 year as Miranda's personal gopher won't be that easy. Miranda's like Cruella DeVil from Disney's Dalmatian movies. She's insensitive, demanding and just \\"cruel.\\"<br />This had the makings of a hilarious book, but just failed to pull it off. Better luck next time.	2003-08-18
US	43180312	R36S0VRK7EYYHZ	1569471096	182852244	Was it Something I Said?	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Sorry, just didn't get it	Set in Manhattan, where driven lawyer Justine and marketing exec. Barry are thrown together in a near-death airplane experience where they share a barf-bag, I found this book reeking with characters that I wouldn't give the time of day. It was supposed to be a romantic comedy. I laughed at a few parts but mostly found myself continuing just to kill time while I waited for another book to become available at my library. I actually despised the main character Justine more than the others. And couldn't care less if the two got married or killed each other off. Although I put in the time, I didn't even finish the last 80 pages.<br />NOTE-Although I genuinely did not enjoy this book, truth be told that I've just come off of Janet Evanovich's first 8 books in her Stephanie Plum series. I found them so funny, Evanovich may have ruined me for all other authors attempting humor.	2003-07-12
US	43180312	R1QSP8L6B0FXND	0312303475	783654043	Brilliant (Kick Keswick Mysteries #1)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not bad, cute story	American Katherine Day Keswick, a.k.a. Kick, has worked for London's Ballantine and Company Auctioneer, Ltd. for over 30 years. She's a true professional and a real expert on fine furniture, paintings and especially jewels. She leads a very private life and wishes to keep it private and soon retire to southern France. Kick has created quite a nest egg for herself over the years in her secret life as a jewel thief. \\"Just to add a touch of class to my residential burglaries, a little bouquet of shamrocks tied with an ivory satin ribbon replaces the goods. A signal to the target that the bad news is they've been robbed, but the good news is they can take pride in knowing they were robbed by London's best-the Shamrock Burglar.\\"<br />But now the auction house has a new CEO. \\"Owen Brace, a self-made man, Irish-American, one of the most successful international takeover artists in the history of business, was a high-speed adrenaline addict and a notorious slash-and-burn specialist.\\" Owen is a womanizer, on his 3rd wife, and a scoundrel. Yet he somehow manages to open Kick's eyes to a new world of love, romance and a physical pleasure she's never known. She sticks around, postponing her departure although something tells her that Owen's intentions may not be honorable.<br />Does Owen really love Kick? Does she really love him? Will her secret life be found out? Well, I can't tell you that.<br />The premise of this story was very cute and fun, at times dangerous and exciting. Good character development as well. My only complaint was in Kellogg's descriptions and explanations, such as jewel expertise and jewelry histories. They seemed dictated straight from an encyclopedia, a laundry list of facts. I'm no writer and can't advise on how I would have overcome this. But as a reader, that was my impression.	2003-06-22
US	43180312	RIEIBR3T6GA7K	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	5	0	0	N	N	So Exhilarating	\\"Shy, geeky, amiable Kevin Lewis had led a double life for more than four years. Now I was going to tell his story,\\" writes author Ben Mezrich, as he proceeds to tell the story of the MIT students who made literally millions at Blackjack with their amazing card counting system. The MIT students were mostly honor students and great mathematicians. \\"But Kevin's resume didn't tell the whole story. There was another side to his life, one written in neon signs and purple casino chips.\\" In 1993, Kevin was recruited by a friend. \\"Kevin, this is the MIT Blackjack Team. It's been around - in one form or another - for almost two decades. Recently, we've taken things to a whole new level. And we want to invite you to come aboard.\\" \\"We're going to hit Vegas.\\" Naturally Kevin was skeptical at first.<br />\\"So you guys cheat at cards?\\"<BR>\\"Absolutely not. We don't alter any of the rules or mess with the nature of the game. We use our brains to take advantage of arbitrage opportunities. Blackjack is beatable - so we beat it. We beat the heck out of it.\\"<br />Over the next four years, this MIT Blackjack Team made their way through Chicago, Louisiana but mostly the bigger casinos of Las Vegas, aptly known as \\"Sin City.\\" They brought aliases, disguises, plenty of cash, and, more importantly, their winning system, which included secret gestures and code words. They fully understood the statistical nature of Blackjack and took full advantage of it. But, as always, there's a lesson to be learned. \\"The most important decision a card counter ever has to make is the decision to walk away.\\"<br />Exhilarated right from page one. I enjoyed the intensity of the game, the outrageously high stakes and the excitement of the casino world. I was taken to places I've been before (and reliving the experience) and places I've only heard about. Much of the excitement came from knowing that, although this reads like a fiction novel, it isn't. This is Ben Mezrich's seventh novel, but his first non-fiction.	2003-06-22
US	43180312	R2UATJO1UDE1SI	0525940340	310302036	The Secret	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Revenge, plot-twists made this worth reading	Miranda Shaeffer met her husband Stephen in college and now have three children. On a whim, Stephen writes a trashy adventure novel under the pen name Forrester, mostly to avoid the harsh disapproval of his stuffy parents. Neither his agent nor his editor know Forrester's identity. Only Miranda. As Stephen sees his fifth bestseller published, the money is rolling in and he is changing. He's moved his family into an outrageously huge apartment overlooking Central Park. He's got new friends, Armani suits and a new attitude. He's a different person, while Miranda has quit working, gained weight and turned into what Stephen sees as a dull, frumpy housewife, unwilling to grow with him. Stephen's eager to leave his wife and starts diverting most of his earnings to secret accounts. When a bomb goes off at a bank where Stephen just closed an account, he seizes the opportunity to play dead and escape, leaving Miranda to fend for herself and their children.<br />Miranda secretly takes over the role of Forrester, in a desperate attempt to mirror Stephen's writing style and save herself and her children from financial ruin. Meanwhile, in Los Angeles, Stephen West (formerly Stephen Shaeffer) has completed what he thinks is the Great American novel. He's almost out of money and can't get his book published. You see how the tables have turned?<br />The character development is weak, except for Stephen. His rotten character is as clear as a bell. What keeps the reader turning pages is the complex and interesting plot, occasionally predictable, but sometimes surprising. Overall, very entertaining.<br />By the way, Cynthia Victor doesn't exist any more than Forrester. The authors here are actually Cynthia Katz and Victoria Skurnick on their 5th collaboration.	2003-06-14
US	43180312	R36Z2G8I0TFR8S	B00007CWHF	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Geriatrics gone wild	Stephanie Plum, bond enforcement officer, a.k.a. bounty hunter, of Trenton, New Jersey, is certainly spinning her wheels on her latest assignment. Eddie DeChooch, a geriatric who dated her Grandma, got caught bootlegging cigs from Virginia. Somehow the job got botched leaving DeChooch scrambling to fix things. An old dead woman is found in DeChooch's shed and two old geezers keep breaking into Stephanie's apartment. Nothing out of the ordinary for Stephanie Plum.<br />Old high school classmates (and harmless losers) Mooner and Dougie are somehow involved with DeChooch. They're in danger and don't even know it. \\"DeChooch was after something and he thought Dougie had it. And now he thinks Mooner's got it.\\" First Dougie disappears, then Mooner. Stephanie calls on Ranger, bounty hunter supreme-o, for help. But his fee for bringing in DeChooch is one entire night alone with Stephanie. I'm sure this wouldn't sit too well with Joe Morelli, the Trenton cop who Stephanie's kinda-like-maybe-sort of engaged to be engaged to.<br />On the homefront, Steph's perfect sister Valerie moves back home with her two perfectly hellacious children after her perfect marriage fails. She's thinking of becoming a lesbian and naturally Grandma wants details. Bob, the bulimic dog, is eating everything in sight and Steph's mom FINALLY voices an opinion or two.<br />Janet Evanovich's 7th in this series gives us cool cars, Harleys, mud wrestling, multiple kidnappings and a couple of major contenders in the love life of one Stephanie Plum. Dang!	2003-06-14
US	43180312	R1S9VZNRZXRF4K	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	More emotion, still quite shocking at times	8th in the series. Trenton, New Jersey's Stephanie Plum, bond enforcement officer, a.k.a. bounty hunter, has her hands full with a charity case. Evelyn Soder and her daughter Annie are on the run. Her ex-husband is threatening to collect on a child custody bond that will force repossession on Evelyn's grandmother's house. As always, nobody's telling the whole truth. There's always more to Stephanie's cases than meets the eye. Eddie Abruzzi, Evelyn's landlord, has threatened Stephanie to stay away from Evelyn and her house. What's it to him?<br />On the side, Stephanie's also looking to bring in Laura Minello-auto theft, and Andy Bender-domestic violence. As always, Lula, ex-lady-of-the-evening, rides shotgun with Steph, along with Albert Kloughn, Evelyn's divorce lawyer. Kloughn is like a pain-in-the-butt little sibling, always latching onto you. But he may have the hots for Steph's sister.<br />Trenton cop, Joe Morelli, is still trying to decide if he wants to continue as Stephanie's love-interest. While he's deciding, he's always there for her, to help out or just grin. And then there's Ranger, the best bounty hunter ever. Ranger's the Wizard \\"because he's magic. He mysteriously passes through locked doors. He seems to read minds. He's able to refuse dessert. And he can give me a hot flash with the touch of a fingertip.\\"<br />A new character is also introduced. Jeanne Ellen Burrows, the female equivalent of Ranger, sporting a black, leather Donna Karan catwoman outfit. I'd like to see her again in future books. What else? Snakes, tarantulas and a 6-foot killer bunny. Yes. A 6-foot killer bunny.<br />Like other reviewers, I agree that Hard Eight was a bit more light-hearted than the first seven books, but only through the first two-thirds. I couldn't put it down for the last 100 or so pages, constantly laughing out loud and dropping my lower jaw. There's much more emotion and reflection on Stephanie's part. The reader really gets into her head with sympathy and understanding. Don't misunderstand. It's funny. I was also shocked by so many actions by so many characters, like Steph's Mom, her sister Valerie, Ranger and Grandma Mazur, as always. Steph's Dad gave us a few sentences longer than 2 words. Shocking. Bring on number 9!	2003-06-14
US	43180312	R3QMX9NM0QVVKE	0345433319	541544893	Midnight Voices	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Chilling Urban Legend-ish Thriller	When tragedy strikes Caroline Evans and her children (Ryan 10, Laurie 12), she's left worrying about her job and her future, struggling to take care of her children. When shes fixed-up with the charming, wealthy and also recently widowed Tony Fleming, her best friend Andrea warns her to stay away from him, that shes got a strange feeling about him. Despite the warnings, Caroline marries Tony and moves her family into her new husbands huge apartment in the old and legendary Rockwell on Central Park West. The 8-story Rockwell is one of the oldest buildings in the city and is a source of stories children used to scare themselves half to death. The other residents are mostly older folks who seem a bit over-anxious to meet Caroline and her children, and are constantly baking all kinds of treats for them. On the very first night in their new home, Lauries vivid nightmares begin. She and her brother both begin hearing strange voices in the middle of the night that seem to be coming from within their apartment, within their own walls. Ryan has had confrontations with his new stepfather and now fears him. Laurie hasnt been sleeping well from the nightmares and is feeling weak and sickly, just like Rebecca, the only other child living in the building. Caroline doesnt share her childrens fears at first, but grows paranoid herself that shes being watched and followed. Suspicion leads her to discover a horrific secret about her new husband and neighbors. Now she must overcome her fears and save herself and her children from the evils that lurk within the walls of The Rockwell.<br />John Sauls chilling campfire tale instantly reflects Rosemarys Baby with the eerie and vivid imagery of the old, creepy apartment house in the city and the evil goings-on that lurk in the night. Very well-written with some believable old characters.	2003-06-04
US	43180312	R1V28YQJOPIVM4	0312203039	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Things are getting Steamy	In this 5th hilarious book of the series, Stephanie Plum is again living up to her reputation as \\"the bounty hunter from hell,\\" working for her bail-bondsman cousin Vinnie. \\"Being a bail enforcement agent is sort of like being bare-bottom Barbie. It's about having a secret. And it's about wearing a lot of bravado on the outside when you're really operating without underpants.\\"<br />As a favor to the family, Stephanie's looking for Uncle Fred, who went to the store 3 days ago and hasn't been seen since. He's 72, has plenty of women (other than his wife) and is feuding with the garbage company. A real cheapskate. But what's really troubling Stephanie are the disturbing photos her aunt gave her of what appears to be body parts in a trash bag. How did Uncle Fred acquire these photos? And why are there now 2 employees of the garbage company dead. And who's this guy who calls himself Bunchy, claiming to be Uncle Fred's bookie and now tailing Stephanie in search of Fred who owes him money?<br />Steph's also looking for Randy Briggs, arrested for carrying a concealed knife and now FTA (Failed To Appear in court). He's 3-feet tall (\\"vertically challenged\\") and has a wicked attitude as he taunts Stephanie, calling her a loser. Also, she's dodging Benito Ramirez, a heavy-weight professional boxer who was involved in Stephanie's first case. She helped send him to jail and now he's on parole, stalking and threatening her.<br />Meanwhile, things have cooled-down with love-interest Joe Morelli, the Trenton, NJ cop who Stephanie's sort-of loved for years. Joe's wondering if he should be jealous of Ranger, Stephanie's friend and mentor, who she's been moonlighting with for extra money. Flirtations are flying between Ranger and Steph and she's wondering which direction temptation will lead her.<br />All of our favorite characters are back in this wacky and dangerous adventure, including Lula, former prostitute turned file clerk, and Grandma Mazur, who learns what a stun-gun does. Watch out!	2003-06-04
US	43180312	R38TDTUQLL8FZY	B00007CWGU	963436946	Hot Six (Stephanie Plum, No. 6)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Just as great as the 1st	A building owned by a black-market arms dealer has burned down, leaving one of the owner's sons dead inside with a bullet hole. Expert bounty hunter, Ranger, was caught on video at the scene and is the number-one suspect. Ranger was once special forces and moves in mysterious circles, \\"like the wind.\\" Nobody finds Ranger unless he wants to be found. Stephanie Plum, Trenton's \\"bounty hunter from hell,\\" sees Ranger as her mentor and lately a bit more than a friend. He's taught her all she knows about the fugitive apprehension business. But if she can bring him in, will she?<br />Meanwhile, two crackpot thugs are tailing Stephanie, hoping she'll lead them to Ranger. Grandma Mazur is Stephanie's new roommate, along with Bob, a golden retriever who'll eat anything and everything. All these roommates are putting a wicked cramp into Steph's love-life. Grandma's also taking driving lessons. Look out, New Jersey!<br />Steph's also trying to apprehend a wining madman wielding a tire iron, but she always comes prepared. \\"Stun gun in my left pocket. Pepper spray in my right pocket. Cuffs hooked to the back loop on my Levi's. Gun at home, in the cookie jar. Courage at home, with the gun.\\"<br />Fortunately, she's got Lula. \\"Lula does filing for Vinnie, and she helps me out when I need backup. Since I'm not the world's best bounty hunter, and Lula isn't the world's best backup, it's more often than not like the amateur-hour version of The Best of `Cops' Bloopers,\\" or Lucy and Ethel's Big Adventure.<br />Steph's frustrated love-interest, Trenton vice cop, Joe Morelli, is also looking for Ranger. The wacky cast of characters gets a couple of new additions, along with 2 car wrecks, 2 car fires, 1 shirt fire, 1 kidnapping and 1 dognapping. Fans of the Stephanie Plum series will, once again, laugh out loud in this hilarious 6th installment.	2003-06-04
US	43180312	R3H6V918WKICH7	0312306326	631084691	Visions of Sugar Plums: A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Stephanie Plum Holiday Novel	\\"My name is Stephanie Plum and I've got a strange man in my kitchen. He appeared out of nowhere. Fortunately, I work in bail bond enforcement and I'm sort of used to scary guys showing up in closets and under beds.\\" His name is Diesel (very rugged and sexy) and claims to be the Spirit of Christmas (although he hates Christmas) and is assigned to bring Christmas cheer to Stephanie. Stephanie's looking for Sandy Claws, a 76-year-old guy wanted for a small burglary. Claws (\\"It was probably Klaus and got screwed up at Ellis Island\\") owns a toy store (u-huh) and makes a lot of toys himself at his workshop (u-huh). Stephanie hasn't had time to even get a tree. No time, no money, no ornaments, no presents. Only 4 days until Christmas, but this is typical for her. Diesel said he'd help her find Claws, then do the tree thing. But Diesel has another mission besides Christmas.<br />\\"Away to the window they flew like a flash, tore open the blinds and threw up the sash. And what to their wondering eyes should appear, but Stephanie Plum and yet another of her cars burning front to rear.\\"<br />Only 149 pages, way too short. I wanted this very quick read to last longer. It's hard to put down, but take the time to savor it. It's really a riot!	2003-06-04
US	43180312	R1SLQ2SHDO0YIR	0684822652	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4th in series, still packs a punch	It's been 5 months since Stephanie Plum of New Jersey's burg started working as an apprehension agent (she prefers bounty hunter) for her bail-bondsman cousin Vinnie. And January is looking like a really bad hair month. She's got an old Nissan Pickup she's convinced is possessed, but still has her uncle's 1953 Buick as a backup. \\"Nothing like packing a pistol to put spring in a girl's step,\\" even if she's afraid of it. To make matters worse, Joe Morelli, working homicide temporarily, is being a perfect gentleman, a total professional. Considering their history, this scares Stephanie more than her gun.<br />Moses \\"Uncle Mo\\" Bedemier is Trenton's most-beloved citizen and favorite candystore owner. When Mo gets busted for carrying a concealed weapon and jumps bail (all very out of character), Stephanie's on the case, checking with the locals only to find that Mo hasn't been seen in two days. \\"I was getting tired of hearing how Mo would never do anything wrong. In fact, I was beginning to wonder what sort of person this wonderful Uncle Mo really was. It seemed to me everyone knew him, but no one knew him.\\"<br />Now Stephanie's been attacked and threatened by men in ski masks warning, \\"Leave Mo alone, or else.\\" Neighborhood drug dealers are turning up dead all around her. Former fling Joe Morelli is starting to wonder if Mo has turned into the neighborhood's anti-drug vigilante. Stephanie's been shot at 3 times in one day! Time to consider a new career? Perhaps just a new hair color.<br />On this case, Stephanie has the help of Lula, a former prostitute turned file clerk. When they first met \\"she'd been a streetwalker and I'd been street-stupid.\\" With aspirations of becoming a bounty hunter herself, Lula is sticking to Stephanie like glue. Ricardo Carlos Manoso, a.k.a. Ranger, is also working with Stephanie on this one and also trying to get her into better, healthier shape. Let's start with a 5 mile January run at 6 AM. Yeah, right!<br />This 3rd in the Stephanie Plum series is just as hilarious as the first. Janet Evanovich writes such great characters that are extremely unique and definitely memorable.	2003-05-25
US	43180312	R3UQ6RYG7WGFIH	0312185863	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Steamy, Dangerous, Hysterical	It's July in Trenton, NJ where Stephanie Plum, bond enforcement officer for her bail bondsman cousin Vinnie, is looking for Maxine Norwicki. Maxine's been charged with stealing her former boyfriend Eddie Kuntz's car and is now FTA (Failed To Appear in court). \\"She wasn't a career criminal and the charges weren't serious. She really had no reason to skip out.\\" Eddie Kuntz got a message from Maxine, who's arranged a little treasure hunt for him. Follow the puzzling clues to get back your mushy love letters. Eddie recruits Stephanie to help him. \\"Maxine's apartment had been ransacked, and two people connected with her had been mutilated. I was thinking maybe someone wanted to find her for something other than love letters. And maybe that someone was Eddie Kuntz.\\"<br />Stephanie's archenemy, Joyce Barnhardt, has been hired by Vinnie as a rival bounty hunter. Stephanie once caught Joyce having an affair with her now ex-husband, and now she's tailing Stephanie, trying to bring in Maxine first.<br />Stephanie teams up with Lula, \\"a 200-lb. Black woman with blond baloney curls all dressed up like Cher on a bad day\\"; and Sally Sweet, a 7-ft. drag queen rock singer. She also calls on Ranger \\"a man of few words. He's Cuban-American, former Special Forces, makes a better friend than an enemy, and he's Vinnie's numero uno bounty hunter.\\"<br />But when someone blows up Stephanie's car AND apartment, all in one day, she's forced to move in with Joe Morelli, the arrogant cop who sweet-talked Stephanie out of her virginity years ago. \\"The thing is, while I was in love with Morelli for all these years, I'd always known it was best if nothing came of it. Loving Morelli was like loving cheesecake. Hours of misery on the Stairmaster, working off ugly fat, in return for a moment of blissful consumption.\\"<br />This 4th in the Stephanie Plum series is a great stand-alone book. It details many of the repeat characters and explains some history that I already know, having been reading the series in sequence. If someone wanted to just read a single book from the series, this would be perfect.	2003-05-25
US	43180312	RTALBDOU96JD	0525946438	842539623	The Blue Edge of Midnight	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Murder in the Florida Everglades	Ex-Philadelphia cop, Max Freeman, has become somewhat of a recluse in his stilted shack \\"in a swamped lowland forest\\" of the South Florida Everglades. On his daily therapeutic ritual of canoeing, he finds the body of a young child and whispers, \\"Not again.\\" Over a year ago back in Philly, he shot and killed a 12-year-old boy who was helping to rob a convenience store. Now Max is reliving the nightmare that's been haunting him ever since. Being the first to find the child's body makes Max a natural suspect. The Florida Dept. of Law Enforcement is working with the FBI to catch the serial killer who's now claimed his 4th victim from homes along the edge of the Everglades.<br />The investigation toggles between two very different worlds, the overcrowded, fast-paced South Florida lifestyle you read about vs. the wild and dangerous Everglades where the killer is thought to reside. \\"How did the killer move from out there in the wild to a place like this? How did he operate so smoothly in both? This guy knew both worlds. And he had mastered the wall between them.\\"<br />What few clues the police have seem to point right at Max. The only way to clear himself is to do some investigating on his own to find the real killer. With the help of his lawyer friend, Billy Manchester, Max is in the saddle again.<br />A journalist for 20 years, Jonathan King has written for the Philadelphia Daily News and the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. In this debut novel, King details the undeveloped, raw side of South Florida, the Everglades. Without the glitz and glamour, we're left with interesting characters of an old-world Florida entwined in a good crime story. Not much suspense, but just a good, smooth story. Look for Jonathan King's 2nd novel, A Visible Darkness, again featuring Max Freeman.	2003-05-12
US	43180312	R2U6F35X5QJPXZ	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Master of Suspense	The \\"maddog\\" has been killing for a long time but his most recent game takes place in Minnesota's Twin Cities where he's already killed two, almost three, women. As a lawyer in \\"normal life,\\" this guy's pretty clever and applies many \\"rules\\" to prevent getting caught. To help the police grasp the concept of his latest game, he leaves one of his rules with each victim, cut out of newspaper, carefully taped together. Never kill anyone you know. Never have a motive. Never carry a weapon after it has been used, and so on.<br />Minneapolis Lieutenant Lucas Davenport also enjoys games. He invents strategic video games, drives a Porsche, likes to fish, collects guns, and, like our serial-killer, plays by his own rules. The rebel in him should've got him fired long ago. But, despite his style and ethics, he gets results. Now he's assigned to catch this demented serial-killer but the \\"maddog\\" will certainly have the cops chasing their own tails in this thriller.<br />Lucas is a genuine and complex character. I'll enjoy getting to know him better throughout the series. He's kind and sensitive when he can be, crude and tough when he needs to be. For such a tough guy, you'll be surprised to know he's afraid of flying. He loves women. Many women. The media loves him, one anchorwoman in particular. But often, they use each other to their own professional advantage.<br />John Sandford delivers a debut novel filled with suspense and realism. The entire police investigation seems so authentic and easy to follow that the reader applauds their breakthroughs and sympathizes with their foul-ups. Their tactics are truly absorbing, often educational. Sandford doesn't bore the reader with lines of needless detail, but provides remarkable descriptions, narratives and key information throughout the book. My only complaint is the utter stupidity Lucas Davenport's women possess, especially when it comes to their relationships with him. They're all just too casual about break-ups and infidelities. But still, never a dull moment in this first of many \\"Prey Series\\" books.	2003-05-09
US	43180312	R3PKYNGUG5UU64	0684196387	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Stephanie's Deadly Dangerous Job	\\"Fugitive apprehender\\" Stephanie Plum is buried (so to speak) in her latest hunt for Kenny Mancuso, charged with shooting a gas station attendant (also his former best friend) Moogey Bues, in the knee. Naturally, he's violated his bond contract with Stephanie's employer, Cousin Vinnie. Someone has now finished the job by killing Moogey Bues. Joe Morelli, Trenton, New Jersey's not-so-finest, is also looking for Kenny, his cousin, and suggests that he and Stephanie bury some old hatchets and work together. Naturally, Stephanie's instincts (and past experience) tell her that Morelli's holding back. Meanwhile, Spiro Stiva, of Stiva's Mortuary, hires Stephanie to help track down 24 missing caskets. Spiro was also best friends with Kenny and the late Moogey in school. \\"Now Moogey was dead. Kenny was missing in action. And Spiro was out twenty-four cheap caskets. Life can get pretty strange. One minute you're in high school, shooting baskets and stealing little kids' lunch money, and then next thing you know you're using mortician's putty to fill in the holes in your best friend's head.\\"<br />This time Stephanie's armed (but not too dangerous) with a stun gun, defense spray, her .38 (which she's still afraid of), and a whole lot of \\"from-the-burg\\" attitude. Someone thinks that she can be scared off with missing body parts. Think again. With Joe Morelli, Ranger, and \\"Granny Disaster\\" on her side, Stephanie's determined to bury Kenny Mancuso before he buries her.<br />Although I enjoyed One for the Money a bit more, this 2nd in the Stephanie Plum series was just as action-packed and hilarious. Ranger is back briefly in a loose partnership with Stephanie. As always, the interaction between Stephanie and Joe Morelli is the best. Why can't she just admit he does it for her? And Grandma Mazur is still causing trouble while trying to help get the bad guys. Another good one.	2003-05-09
US	43180312	R3NFYON9O38HNF	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Touching tale of hard-luck and secrets	Inspired by his own childhood in rural Arkansas, this touching tale of fiction is set in 1952 where many folks like the three generations of Chandlers portrayed here, rent their land and their never-before-painted house. We see the world through the eyes of 7-year-old Luke Chandler, whose youth and innocent views are honest and refreshing. \\"Pappy said that Otis was very levelheaded - tobacco juice ran out of both corners of his mouth.\\"<br />Two families, one Mexican, the other \\"hill people,\\" have been hired to help harvest the Chandler's 80 acres of cotton. Being such good Baptists, the Chandlers have always treated their help better than most. Harvest time makes for long, grueling days and is a time of endless worry. The women worry about the mistreatment of the workers by other, while the men worry about the rainy season and their beloved St. Louis Cardinals. \\"I was certain there was a reason the Cardinals lost the pennant, but I couldn't understand why God was behind it. Why would God allow two  teams from New York to play in the World Series? It completely baffled me.\\"<br />For a boy of only 7, Luke certainly had worries of his own. Some he shared with his family, like worrying about Uncle Ricky fighting in Korea, and the 15-year-old neighbor about to give birth to an illegitimate child; certainly the town scandal. But as tensions build with the Mexicans and \\"hill people,\\" Luke witnesses more than any child should, keeping many secrets, some wonderful, others horrible. Among the Spruill family from the hills, there's a 17-year-old girl named Tally who watches over her little brother Trot who's \\"not right.\\" She becomes a friend to Luke and he's really taken by her. Tally's older brother, Hank, a bully to stay clear of, has already beaten a local kid to death. The Mexicans are hard workers, as well, but also enjoy playing baseball, the local obsession. Just beware of the one who wields a knife.<br />\\"In a world where everyone either farmed or traded with farmers,a wet season in mid-October was quite depressing.\\" As the season begins to change, the Chandlers worry more about surviving a possible flood, losing their entire crop, and also surviving the tragedies the summer has brought. Secrets, murder and nature itself will certainly change the lives of the Chandlers and our young narrator, Luke.<br />Such a good story with the love and treasure of a hard-working family, along with the worries, secrets and tragedies that make such a story so enjoyable. Luke it a great character as is his grandfather, Pappy. The bond they have is unbreakable. Bravo.	2003-04-28
US	43180312	R2QDBE5HAPR2TT	0316969680	540414996	The Beach House	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Far-fetched, but great characters	Jack Mullen is a brilliant Columbia Law student when his younger brother, Peter, drowns in the ocean off East Hampton. They grew up on the beaches of The Hamptons and Jack is convinced that Peters death was no accident. Theres just no way Peter would have gone for a late-night swim while working at the $40 million beach house known for its elite parties where he parked cars and such since he was thirteen. Chief Detective Frank Volpi insists Peters death was either an accident or suicide. But Peters body was horribly bruised and hed just bought a $19,000 motorcycle. Jack insists, You dont wash a motorcycle twice a day when youre contemplating suicide. The rich and powerful Neubauers, who own the beach house where Peter drowned, know more than theyre telling. Along with his grandfather, a close colleague and five life-long friends, Jack takes on the high-and-mighties of East Hampton to avenge his brothers death.<br />This is more than just a web of lies and deceit. Theres love, power, revenge and the Mullens Family. Theyre the working-class Kennedys of Montauk. The same good looks and charisma, the same Irish Catholic blarney, and the same tragic curse.<br />Although some of the storyline was a bit far-fetched, I boosted my rating to 4-stars for the revenge and characters. I love a good revenge storyline. Nothing pleases me more than watching the guilty squirm. Some of the main characters are very well developed, as well. Some had real faces to me, like Jacks grandfather, Mack. I saw him as 100-percent actor Wilford Brimley (Cocoon, The Firm): kind, sincere, intelligent, firm, honest, very straightforward.<br />Journalist Peter de Jonge collaborates with Patterson here as well as in the 1996 golf fantasy Miracle on the 17th Green. Together again, they spin quite a tale.	2003-04-28
US	43180312	RONYW5RH3MVFW	0684196395	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	So funny, for a mystery novel.	Introducing Stephanie Plum: divorced at 30, laid off ... lingerie buyer (\\"not exactly Victoria's Secret\\"), drives a...Chevy Nova she traded for her TV, VCR and small kitchen appliances after her Miata Roadster was repossessed. In a brutal New Jersey August, she's struggling to keep food and shelter for herself and her pet hamster, Rex. Desperate, she turns to her least favorite relative, Cousin Vinnie, and blackmails him into giving her a bail-bond recovery job paying [dollar amount]. The job: bring in Joseph Morelli, a cop accused of [a crime]. Coincidentally, the same guy who took her virginity at 16. Oh, revenge is sweet.<br />With no experience and no gun, Stephanie is determined to bring in Morelli, not realizing how dangerous it could be. Benito Ramirez, a sleazy heavyweight title contender, is now following and threatening her. He's also been charged with [physical crimes] three times. Stephanie gets some advice (and some rescuing) from Ranger, the \\"Dirty Harry\\" of bond enforcement who also works for Vinnie. Stephanie is most definitely a tough cookie. Let's hope she doesn't get herself killed in the process of getting Morelli.<br />This is the 1st book of the Stephanie Plum series. Although it's a mystery series, it's very funny. I must've chuckled at something on almost every page. The characters are so vivid, from Stephanie's nagging mother, her practically senile and wacky grandmother, and somewhat charming Joeseph Morelli. There may still be some chemistry there. Who knows?<br />This is Janet Evanovich's first mystery novel. She began her career writing romance and is now working on the 9th book of the series. She's definitely got something here. Her writing is so witty and real. Great detail to describing each action and scene. Really great characters you want to see again.	2003-04-19
US	43180312	R19TGG45PI0WRY	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not a Grisham best	Professor Ray Atlee is 43, newly divorced and teaches law at the University of Virginia. He leads a simple life of simple pleasures: teaching, flying and jogging. His younger brother Forrest is a free-spirit addict living in Memphis, bouncing from job to job. The two have nothing in common but a name and a father. Theyve both been summoned home to Clanton, Mississippi by their dying father, the legendary and honorable judge Reuben V. Atlee to discuss the administration of my estate. They predict there will be nothing left of the estate: Mississippi judges dont make much money and their father charitably gave away plenty.<br />When Ray arrives first to his fathers house, first time in over a year, he finds his father already dead and a will dated the day before stating that Ray would be executor and the brothers would split what was left: house, furniture, car and $6,000. However, Ray also finds boxes of mysterious money stashed away in the house, just over 3 million dollars! He hides the money from everyone, including his brother Forrest, and contemplates where it came from, who else knows about it, is it stolen, marked, what? As Ray moves the money around, keeping it safe, he tests to see if its counterfeit and investigates its source. Meanwhile, someone is following him, making threats, someone who obviously knows about the money.<br />Although the plot was good, it lacked the usual tension and gripping suspense we usually associate with Grisham. Most characters were less developed than I wouldve liked and the only part that was page turning was the last two chapters where the twist lies. Overall, not bad, couldve been better.	2003-04-19
US	43180312	R16P2Y55Q6F6HW	0316693294	265763987	Cat and Mouse (Alex Cross Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Who's chasing who?	STOP! If you're not used to series-books, be sure to check out Patterson's \\"Along Came A Spider\\" first. Not the movie, because some facts were changed from the book. It will really help you understand the villain, Gary Soneji, who's BACK in this exciting thriller that will make you dizzy with it's twists and surprises.<br />In the 4th of the Alex Cross series, Homocide Detective Alex Cross is once again faced with the madman he put away earlier for kidnapping two children in Washington D.C. Gary Soneji has escaped from prison and is on the warpath, having some fun with shooting-sprees at Union Station in Washington and Penn Station in New York. He's taunting the police, daring to be caught. He's also vowed to kill Alex Cross as his last act on earth.<br />Meanwhile, FBI's current hotshot profiler, Agent Thomas Pierce, is busy running all over Europe searching for a serial killer referred to as Mr. Smith. The media also calls Mr. Smith \\"The Alien\\" because \\"no human could ever do the things he did.\\" Pierce's girlfriend was one of Smith's first victims and he's hell-bent on catching him before he mutilates his next victim.<br />Two \\"killer\\" storylines paralleling each other with two great detectives on their tails. But who's chasing who in this dual-game of Cat & Mouse.<br />What happens when you have a 338-page book written by James Patterson with 131 tiny but gripping chapters? You never want to put it down, telling yourself, \\"Just one more chapter. There. Now just one more.\\" I liked that while most of the book is in the 3rd person narrative, when we're with Alex Cross it's in the 1st person, because he's the man! However, part of the middle switches over to FBI Agent Thomas Pierce in the 1st person. This switch clearly shows who the focus of attention is on. I accidentally skipped the 3rd book in this series. Time to take a step back.	2003-04-14
US	43180312	R23Z2W1554O0NZ	0385474474	694828102	Lost Angel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Lost "Structure"	Valerie Vincent is a single-mother, doing the best she can. While working in Long Island as a companion to a wealthy blind woman who's confined to a wheelchair, Valerie sees her 18-month-old daughter's face on the news. The police, referring to the child as \\"Baby Jane Doe,\\" found the child at the home of the babysitter, a close family-friend of Valerie, who was brutally murdered. When Valerie arrives at the police station to claim her child, she learns that her daughter was released to another woman who claimed to be the child's mother. The search is on. Valerie suspects that her ex-in-laws, Martha and Lucas Starr, may have something to do with her daughter's kidnapping. The Starrs are wacko - members of an organization called D.A.S.H. (Deliverance And Safe Haven). They think Valerie is some kind of devil-worshiper. The mission of D.A.S.H. is to \\"rescue\\" children who are being subject to abuse and satanic rituals by adults. Valerie sets out to risk her life for her child and infiltrates the group known as D.A.S.H. to find her daughter. Only the truth is more shocking than she had imagined.<br />While the premise of this book was good, the writing style left me frustrated and impatient. It took a lot of patience for me to recall what I'd read if I went too fast. The vocabulary and sentence structure just didn't flow smoothly enough for me. Other than that, not a bad story.	2003-04-14
US	43180312	R5DIMX871N6QY	0312180519	81264821	Hush	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Debut Novel of Thrilling Terror	Seven-year-old Davey Boyce tells his mother that his stepfather, Chet, has been hurting him \\"down there\\". When she confronts Chet, he responds with pleasure, \\"I married you . . . for the boy,\\" and slices her throat with a razor. <br />If that's not enough to grab you, there's more . . .<br />Chet moves Davey to the timberland town of Bentman, Oregon in his trailer. Since his mother's brutal death, Davey hasn't spoken a word; he's become an elective mute. After seriously biting a fellow student and teacher, he is kicked out of school and sent to the Bentman Children's Center for Psychological study. Here he's evaluated by 38-year-old Celia Griswold and placed in her Art Therapy class. Celia works closely with Davey and gets pretty attached to him but also has troubles of her own: dealing with her own abusive childhood and trying to have a child with her husband who, little does she know, it having a torrid affair with a woman at his insurance agency. Through Davey's drawings, Celia sees something dark, horrifying and confronts Chet about her suspicions. First rule of survival: NEVER confront Chet about anything! Now he's going to do whatever's necessary to prevent her from finding out the truth.<br />Certainly a page-tuner, this is a debut novel of thrilling terror by award-winning journalist Mark Nykanen. Well-written with good character development. Chet, the villain, was less developed than I'd hoped, but we do see a bit into his past, his childhood, and definitely get inside his head. The boy, Davey, was so clear to me. This is quite an accomplishment for a character without dialogue. I saw him and cringed for him. Celia was a very well-written character as well. A strong woman, though she wouldn't see herself that way. There were a couple of parts that were pretty gruesome. I wanted to look away, but quickly realized that this is a book, not a movie, although the picture in my head was vivid. Cruelty to animals is also a sub theme throughout. One reviewer mentions the famous scene in \\"The Shining\\" where Jack Nicholson breaks a hole in the bathroom door just large enough for his face to poke through and terrify his screaming wife. Yup, I certainly saw that scene repeated here. My favorite parts of the book dealt with the Art Therapy. I found it so fascinating and feel I could evaluate a child's drawing myself. This definitely didn't seem like a debut novel to me. Well-done!	2003-04-03
US	43180312	R94AKWIGZAWOM	0684864843	526930828	The Vineyard: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	GREAT People-Book	Asquonset Vineyard, Rhode Island. Six months after the death of her husband of 58 years, Natalie Seebring announces her intentions to marry Carl Burke, a man she's known since childhood, a man who's been her vineyard manager for the past 35 years. Naturally, Natalie's grown children, Susanne and Greg, are shocked and disturbed by the sudden news. Natalie decides to hire someone for the summer to help write her memoirs in time for her Labor Day wedding. She hopes her story will explain to her children what she's been through in her 76 years and what she's feeling now.<br />At 35, Olivia Jones is a single mother working hard to provide for her 10-year-old daughter Tess. Olivia knows art and photography. She's been doing photo restoration for Natalie Seebring for months, although they've never met. Through her work, Olivia has grown very attached to the Seebring family. She can only imagine what each family member is like and imagines herself as a Seebring herself. She jumps at the job offer to work at the vineyard for the summer. The pay will be more than enough to hire tutors to help Tess with her dyslexia.<br />With Olivia at her side, pen in hand, Natalie's story of love, heartache, struggle and perseverance slowly unfolds, revealing a few secrets along the way.<br />Meanwhile, Olivia is searching for her own mother as well as dealing with Carl's son, Simon, now the vineyard manager. Simon lost his wife and daughter 4 years ago in a sailing accident and having Olivia around with young Tess only stirs up the pain he's worked so hard to bury.<br />This is truly a story so well told that you laugh at times and cry at others. There's so much detail on a variety of topics. The reader learns a bit about growing grapes, sailing, hurricanes, the Great Depression and World War II. Each character is so well-written, I feel that if I were ever in Rhode Island, I could simply drive up and pay the Seebrings a visit. Great people book.	2003-04-03
US	43180312	R220IDJO07C17A	037550883X	564633047	I May Be Wrong but I Doubt It	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Simple Truths	Starts off light-hearted: why he's writing this book. He wants to get people thinking, get discussions started from his comments and opinions on social issues and serious subjects. He talks about \\"keeping it real\\" for himself and the importance of the \\"star\\" of the game (any game) who's often taken for granted. He speaks of his mother and grandmother, who played such an important role in his upbringing, his love of travel and meeting new people. He speaks strongly of the racial tension he knew growing up black in Alabama. \\"Prejudice and racism isn't natural; you have to be taught it.\\" His personal mentors: Julius Erving and Moses Malone. There's no fraternity more unique than that of the professional athlete. Young athletes should pay homage to the greats who came before them. He says \\"God doesn't have a favorite team,\\" and \\"every minute of every day can't be serious.\\"<br />What's wrong with saying that parents and teachers should be the role models of our children, not celebrities? When priests abuse children, why are we holding \\"meetings\\" instead of tossing their butts in jail? Why do people say an athlete's career is unfulfilled if he/she doesn't win a championship? Young players need to finish High School and stay in college as long as possible before going pro. The reason the worst teams get first draft pick is to improve their team now. Not 3-4 years from now when the kid gets better. Charles touched on the September 11th tragedy briefly; how he felt, how it changed him, especially his sudden uneasiness with flying.<br />The book is edited by Washington Post Sports Columnist Michael Wilbon who also contributes a great intro., having known Barkley since 1983 when he first saw him play at Auburn. Much of the book addresses the problems with racism. That's fine. The author IS black and has experienced racism his entire life. Most white people think, \\"I don't worry about racism: I'm white. It's a non-issue for me.\\" The fact that racism is still a topic of conversation now, in 2003, is sad. I knew what to expect when I picked up this book. I'm white AND I'm a woman, but I'm just a fan of Charles Barkley. (I'm just sorry you never played for us in Boston!) An NBA star for 16 years and a big mouth: That's why I like him. He's not afraid to speak his mind. I find his ideas and opinions so basic, simple and true. It's unfortunate the rest of the world doesn't see things as simply as he does. I also enjoyed the writing style: very casual and conversational. Other readers have said, \\"there's not much that hasn't been heard before.\\" Well isn't that the point? Most of these deeper issues ARE old issues. But they're STILL issues. Nothing's resolved. And PS-If you didn't like the book, you shouldn't have given it 3-stars!	2003-03-25
US	43180312	R390X5IRUS390J	0066212995	411648778	Sleepyhead	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A new twist for a new writer	Set in London, this debut novel by Mark Billingham gives an interesting twist to the typical serial-killer theme. After 3 women have already been murdered, middle-aged Detective Inspector Tom Thorne finds a note from the killer on his windshield and realizes, Alison Willetts is not the killer's first mistake. She's the first success.<br />The first 3 women died due to constriction of the basilar artery. They were [given chemicals] and given intentional strokes. The killer left no marks. The work is virtually undetectable. Millions of people are at a high risk for a stroke. It's actually a sick and brilliant plan.<br />At 24, Alison Willets didn't fit the serial killer's profile. She's still alive, but just barely. She suffers from locked-in syndrome: she can see, hear and think, but that's it. Can't move, can't speak. Can't tell Thorne who did this to her. Thorne is convinced the killer is a doctor. To block off this artery and cause a stroke takes medical expertise. To cause the kind of stroke that would induce locked-in syndrome is much more difficult to achieve, by fractions of an inch. It takes precision and patience.<br />\\"This is about aiming for something like perfection. It's about taking something flawed and weak and rotten and removing the need for it. Eliminating the reliance on it. Letting the brain, which is the only part that's worth anything at all, flourish without the handicap of the body. It's about freedom.\\"<br />Consultant Neurologist Dr. Anne Coburn is working with Alison, trying to help her communicate, hoping that, in time, Alison may be able to help find whoever did this to her and the others. Anne and Thorne start to develop a relationship that is tested when Thorne convinces himself that a close friend of Anne's is the killer.<br />I think the beginning and ending were exciting. The middle had some slow parts. Following the killer was chilling. The killer is very arrogant, but actually resents the killings, the failures. I enjoyed Alison Willets' inner-monologue, written in the first-person narrative. It's good to get to know her. She's very positive with a great sense of humor, considering. Overall a pretty good book with a great twisted plot. I just wasn't as captured as I hoped through parts of the middle. I also got confused a couple times when someone new was mentioned just briefly and I had to go back, thinking I missed something. Of course I read the book in 3 days, so I couldn't have forgotten. It all gets cleared up for me in the end though.	2003-03-22
US	43180312	R2L715QBOB7J4T	037541326X	390785003	Ash Wednesday	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Story of &quot;real&quot; youthful self-discovery	At 29, Jimmy Heartsock doesn't think too much of himself. He longs to be someone he can admire. He had joined the Army on a whim after his father's suicide and hates it. But he didn't know what else to do at the time, looking for some order in his life. Christy, his 26-year-old girlfriend, is pregnant with his child. All she wants is to get to her hometown of Houston, a home she left behind 10 years ago. Together they embark on a rocky journey of self-discovery, an emotional road-trip from Albany to New Orleans to Texas in a souped-up `69 Chevy Nova. Although Jimmy thinks he's on official leave, the Army list him as AWOL. Jimmy and Christy contemplate their feelings and beliefs about love, marriage, parenthood and life. They're both still trying to figure out who they really are. Together they'll find out.<br />\\"Truly loving somebody else should never be confused with a good time. Loving somebody is just as painful and disappointing as it is getting to know yourself. It's probably the only thing worth doing, but that doesn't mean it's gonna be a picnic.\\" - Jimmy Heartsock.<br />Actor, now writer, Ethan Hawke, shows us how many young people deal with self-worth and discovery of themselves, how the world is seen through their eyes. Very well-written in a dual first-person narration, Hawke's raw and honest writing style truly defines his characters' personas. I felt I knew them well and understood the uncertainties of their world and themselves. It was obvious to me which character was speaking, being so different from each other. The written dialogue was great: honest and real.	2003-03-16
US	43180312	RBXILBGH3N5P6	0553582917	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wow! It IS Intense!	This truly intense psychological thriller takes you on a wicked journey between the minds of one killer and one survivor.<br />Chyna Shepard's best friend invites her to Napa Valley to visit her parents. That night, unable to sleep, Chyna hears sounds and soon discovers that everyone has been murdered, that she alone has survived . . . and the killer is still in the house.<br />Chyna, at 26, is still re-creating herself after a miserable childhood full of fear and mental anguish. This former straitlaced girl who lived life in complete moderation (including the speed in which she drives), finds herself grateful to have been spared, but is now chasing after the killer herself, trying to save a young girl she believes is being held captive by this psycho. Because of her own past, Chyna feels that she is one with this girl and must save her.<br />Edglar Vess, is living, breathing, walking evil. He's been killing most of his life. Started with small insects as a boy, worked his way up to the bigger, better kill. He loves it. It's what he does. It's all an intense game he plays. He's meticulous, cautious, methodical and patient (just like you'll need to be to appreciate this book).<br />\\"But I'm not a psychopath,\\" he said.<BR>\\"Then what are you?\\"<BR>\\"Oh . . . call me a homicidal adventurer. Or perhaps the only clear-thinking person you've ever met.\\"<BR>\\" `Maggot' works better for me.\\"<br />Without the psychological incite and informative flashbacks, this would have been a very short book. Some may feel it drags, while others like myself found it very well-written. It IS intense. The whole idea is to keep the reader in suspense . . . cringing, guessing, surprised to the very end. Dean Koontz accomplishes this concept ten fold.<br />I actually discovered this book here on www.Amazon.com. It received so many great reviews and ratings, I had to read it. So thank you, fellow reviewers and thank you, Dean Koontz.	2003-03-13
US	43180312	R37SDF5RXNFQ7S	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An exciting countdown adventure	Until now, I've only been familiar with Michael Crichton's work through his movies. I read Timeline in just 5 days (well, I do have to work you know). Very enjoyable. Similar to the Jurassic Park journey but without the dinosaurs and set in southern France in the year 1357 during the 100 Years War.<br />Three young historians are transported back to rescue their chief historian and project leader who has sent a cry for help from 1357 to the year 1999. They have only 37 hours to complete their mission or they can't return.<br />In the beginning, Crichton sets you up, educates you on the basic principles of quantum physics and introduces you to the main players in this adventurous blend of science fiction and historical literature. Some characters were less developed to me, particularly the ones sent on the journey. However, the story's villain was portrayed well enough to hate. This was Robert Doniger, the founder of the company ITC, which uses quantum energy to recreate genetics and DNA to transfer humans to the past. Sometimes there are Transcription Errors, and sometimes people can't return at all. Doniger seems only interested with money and power, naturally.<br />I enjoyed the story and am sure the movie will be just as entertaining. It's an exciting and dangerous countdown. Only 37 hours, or they can't return.	2003-03-09
US	43180312	R20V6O222DM197	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Lawyer on Trial	Kindle County's chief deputy prosecutor, Rusty Sabich, has an impeccable reputation. He tries his best to be a good father to his son, Nathaniel, and a loving husband to his wife, Barbara. However, Carolyn Polhemus, a fellow attorney, changes all of that. Carolyn has been brutally murdered - and the timing couldn't be worse, just days before Rusty's boss, Raymond Horgan's last re-election campaign. Horgan, busy with his campaign, asks that Rusty head-up the murder investigation. What Horgan doesn't know is that Rusty had an affair with the deceased. Suddenly, Rusty has become the prime suspect. The evidence against him is very incriminating. Did Rusty kill Carolyn Polhemus? Is he being framed? His lawyer, Alejandro \\"Sandy\\" Stern, is one of the best. But is he good enough to save Rusty's life?<br />Scott Turow has such a great writing style. He tells you only what you need to know now, keeping you second-guessing your own instincts and conclusions, and forcing you to read on. The many characters involved in this investigation are all very different from each other. They are very realistic and everyone has some kind of reputation exposed, good and bad. This isn't a \\"lawyer story\\" just for the pros. It's written for anyone to easily enjoy - and I certainly did.	2002-09-29
US	43180312	R2Q1S3EGTFLDCU	0446604658	612130498	Lucky You	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lady Lucks	JoLayne Lucks lives in Grange, Florida, a town famous for its so-called miracles (the weeping fiberglass Madonna that cries \\"real\\" tears scented with Charlie perfume and the famous Road-Stain Jesus). Now there's Lady Luck, for JoLayne has just won the Florida Lotto and plans to save a rare piece of Florida wildlife from being bulldozed into another useless strip mall. Problem: there's a second winner to split the $28 million jackpot. Bodean Gazzer and his sidekick, known only as Chub, are eager to start their own underground militia \\"before NATO troops invade America.\\" $14 million certainly isn't enough for these guys. They beat up JoLayne and swipe her winning ticket. Reporter Tom Krome, who initially is sent to Grange for an interview with \\"Lady Lucks,\\" offers his help to track down the ticket swipers. The never-ending chase of Lucky You is a typical Carl Hiaasen ride including kidnapping, blackmail, arson, murder, adultery, even a Hooter's waitress. This is my 4th Hiaasen book and one of the better ones. I'm not a huge fan. Let's just say I'm a Florida resident who \\"appreciates\\" his work.	2002-09-14
US	43180312	R1LMYEUEN4QFJ8	0316780812	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Very Touching Tale	New Hampshire, 1929, just before the Great Depression, newlyweds, Honora and Sexton Beecher, have moved into an abandoned beach house to fix it up and save for a house of their own. Sexton, an ambitious typewriter salesman, finds a way to take a loan to buy the house. However, he \\"has risked everything he owned on the eve of the single biggest economic disaster in American History.\\" Quillen McDermott, a loom fixer at the local mills, works hard to keep his younger brothers out of the mills. Alphonse, an 11-year-old mill worker, looks upon McDermott as a father-figure, following him around like a faithful puppy. McDermott and other workers are meeting secretly, talking of forming a union and planning a strike. All along, Honora has made a hobby of collecting sea glass on the beach. \\"It's the individual bits that interest her, the ability to pick them up and let them fall through her fingers and guess at the story behind each one.\\" Boston socialite, Vivian Burton, summering nearby, meets Honora on the beach and becomes a loyal friend. Losing his job, car and bank loan, Sexton takes a mill job to hold onto the house. \\"Something inside him would be irretrievably lost if he failed to keep the house that he had ruined himself to buy.\\" Honora's marriage has been completely altered and strained, but she remains hopeful. The strike brings everyone together for a common goal, but it will also change all of their lives forever.<br />This is my first Anita Shreve read. I'm told the beach house in the center of the story is the same house that connects a trilogy of Shreve's stories, including \\"Fortune's Rocks\\" and \\"The Pilot's Wife,\\" which I enjoyed the audio version. Sea Glass is such a touching tale of love, honor, heartship and friendship, among other things. A smooth and very enjoyable read.	2002-09-07
US	43180312	R1SO6XKKX5OW34	0385335881	796714451	Shopaholic Takes Manhattan	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hilarious Sequel	Becky Bloomwood is at it again in this hilarious sequel to \\"Confessions of a Shopaholic,\\" the debut novel by London author Sophie Kinsella. Becky has, supposedly, cleaned up her act, paid her outstanding bills, and is off to a fresh start with her very rich boyfriend, Luke, and her great new job on TV's \\"Morning Coffee\\" as their financial expert (ironic as is seems). Becky learns that Luke is planning to move from London to New York and he wants her to go with him. Luke is totally obsessed with his work and focused on \\"making it in America.\\"<BR>They head for the Big Apple for a short trip of mostly business meetings for Luke. Becky also has an important interview lined up. Naturally, Becky's trying to keep her promise to her flatmate, Suze, and stick to a strict budget, no extra spending. Desperately, she tries not to think about shopping. But, you know Becky, full of unique excuses and rationalizations. She's thinking, \\"I'm sure I read somewhere that Bloomingdale's is quite an admired  piece of architecture.\\" I won't elaborate on Becky's run-in at the gym - quite funny. I felt so bad for Becky, such torture. How much willpower do you expect her to have . . . on Fifth Avenue? . . . in Saks? . . . all 10 floors of it!? She does try to take in some culture, though, at the Guggenheim (well, the Guggenheim Museum Store, anyway).<BR>Things get pretty out-of-hand and Becky finds that she may have ruined everything for herself and for Luke. You're not getting any more from me - you'll have to read this one yourself. Another winner for author Sophie Kinsella. Can hardly wait for her third book :)	2002-08-19
US	43180312	R2DS24VBP906OT	0449221180	512657531	Native Tongue	Books	2	7	13	N	N	Way too Ridiculous	Ex-reporter Joe Winder is now the PR writer for the Amazing Kingdom of Thrills theme park in Key Largo, Florida. Formerly an employee of the competition (Disney), Joe now writes real sweet press releases, you know, the sugar-coated kind. Things get a little interesting at the Rare Animal Pavilion. The rare, treasured and last two surviving specimens of the blue-tongued mango vole (similar to rats, I guess) are carelessly stolen and inevitably killed by two [bumbling] burglars hired by a 70-year-old member of the Wildlife Rescue Corps.<br />Francis X. Kingsbury is a land developer, hiding from his past life in New York. He's the founder, president and chairman of the park. He's the big cheese. He's also developing Falcon Trace, a waterfront home site and golf club. The Wildlife Rescue Corps. is un-thrilled about this land development as well.<br />Unlike Jack Tagger, the main character in Hiaasen's recent novel \\"Basket Case,\\" Joe Winder, is dragged through the muck and mishaps at the park and into a mystery of multiple levels. His bosses have really pushed him into the investigative driver's seat. Jack Tagger of \\"Basket Case\\" takes it upon himself, out of curiosity, to get involved. A member of an old band he liked mysteriously drowns and he really wants to find the truth. Both main characters hold similar jobs, however, and get dragged into a PI position, checking out murders, suicides, looking for evidence and clues, basically sticking their noses where they don't belong and risking their lives for a lousy job.<br />Native Tongue was too far-fetched for me. We've got a vole doctor killed by Orky the Wale, the scene set up like a suicide. A girlfriend who \\"talks dirty\\" for a living. (O-kay, that I believe.) And, Dickie the Dolphin has a helluva romp in his tank with a beautiful TV reporter. Far-fetched is fine, but this was really ridiculous. I had a few laughs, I admit, but I wouldn't recommend this one.	2002-08-06
US	43180312	R3CGTZDJ9UA3H4	0060188952	111079086	Bread Alone: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Tastiest Debut Ever	At 31, Wynter Morrison's life has already been turned upside down. Her husband has announced that he feels trapped, suffocated, needs a complete change, needs to take risks. To do this, he must be completely independent, of her. Wynter already knows she hated being a school teacher and selling real estate was not her specialty. She was the always charming hostess, the source of contacts. She gave parties, went to dinners, benefits, concerts, plays, gallery openings, political fundraisers, auctions. She served on several committees in the community, exercised religiously, played tennis at \\"the club.\\" During her 7-year marriage, she was transformed into the perfect wife of an advertising executive. Their only friends are those who can improve their economic status.<br />Wynter goes to Seattle to visit her very best friend, CM (Christine Mayle). While CM is at work, Wynter spends her mornings at the Queen Street Bakery, enjoying coffee, the newspaper, and the company of the shop's workers and owners who now consider her \\"a regular.\\" Wynter returns home to LA only to find all of her personal belongings boxed-up and on the front porch of her house, her house with the new locks! Wynter often reminisces about the summer she was at UCLA and did a work study program at a bakery in France. She decides to return to Seattle and take the job offered to her at the bakery, to bake bread, something she loves and is great at. You'll have to read this book to learn more about the interesting relationships surrounding Wynter's adventure and see how things turn out for her.<br />When reading an author for the first time, how long should it take you to decide if you like their writing style? Judith Ryan Hendricks reeled me in instantly. Are you sure this is your debut novel? You're a natural. Please tell me you're working on another book! The writing is so true-to-life, especially the dialog. It's not too formal or too \\"slang-like.\\" I know the characters and love or hate them. Wynter'sfriend CM really made me laugh. She reminded me of my best friend. Never hesitates to smack some sense into me, so to speak. Just the best friend ever. Can make me laugh when I just feel like crying. Excellent debut novel.	2002-07-14
US	43180312	R2IMJMR6QSO7Z6	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Rock-n-Roll Detective Story	Jack Tagger writes death notices for a South Florida daily newspaper. He's 46 and already death-obsessed; nature of the business. Jimmy Stoma, front man for a gone-but-not-forgotten rock group, turns up dead from a diving accident in the Bahamas. Jack writes the death notice based on some bad information given to him by the rocker's pop-singer widow, Cleo Rio. Jack suspects foul-play and is hell-bent on finding out the truth behind Jimmy Stoma's death. With the help Emma, the young and ambitious editor, Juan, close friend and sports writer, and Janet Thrush, Jimmy Stoma's sister, Jack Tagger may actually become the reporter he once was.<br />This is my first book by author Carl Hiaasen. I'm also from South Florida and enjoyed the familiarity in his writing. Hiaasen has been a journalist for the Miami Herald for the past 25 years. His character Jack Tagger must have developed easily from his own experiences with the newspaper. Hiaasen's writing style was very unique to me. He's got a realistic-sarcasm I enjoyed. \\"The club is lit with fruity-colored strobes that dice up the cigarette haze like a psychedelic SaladShooter. A Nordic-looking DJ in unlikely rasta garb is in command of the synthesized dance music, thumping as tediously as a cardiac monitor.\\" Just an example of the writings of Carl Hiaasen.	2002-07-06
US	43180312	R3S95VMI9GECSX	0312262663	830002770	Close to You	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Good-story wanna-be	Eliza Blake is a beautiful news anchorwoman who enters your home, and the homes of thousands just like you, every day. For some, this isn't enough. Eliza has multiple \\"stalkers\\" sending her sick messages in the mail and on her phone. She and her five year old daughter are being threatened and it must end, before someone ELSE dies.<br />This had the makings of a really great story. In my opinion, it just didn't say all it should have. The main character, Eliza, should have done everything in her power to protect herself and her daughter. She really didn't do squat. She simply stood back, making observations. The writing was very predictable and matter-of-fact; I felt no suspense or any other emotions, for that matter. The dialog was very dull and rigid, like the words were simply pulled from a dictionary. I yelled at the book a couple times. You'll need a little patience with this one.	2002-06-28
US	43180312	R84F8P4V8OBUW	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not what I expected	Twenty-eight year old Mirabelle considers herself an artist, but spends her days working the forever-lonely glove counter at Neiman Marcus in L.A. Despite her shyness and under-control depression, Mirabelle leads a fairly active life. Ray Porter, almost twice her age, is a wealthy businessman (also fairly shy) who takes a romantic interest in Mirabelle. Together (and apart) they two struggle with relationships and life.<br />Choosing a novel written by Steve Martin gave me the preconceived notion that this would be a hysterical book. Not so. Parts were funny, ok, hysterical. But between the few humorous parts, I found the story a little drab. I guess I expected something different. But it was a pretty good story. What I found most interesting was getting a man's viewpoint on certain women's issues. Well excuuuuuuse ME! Way to go, Mr. Martin.	2002-06-24
US	43180312	R1H0OR3NJ90EU1	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not bad	When you lose someone you love, time eventually closes the wound a bit and you hurt a little less. Not so for Dr. David Beck, who's wife was abducted and killed 8 years ago. He's still wrapped up in Elizabeth's death, as if it just happened yesterday. Beck receives a strange email containing references to things only he and his deceased wife would know. Someone wants him to think Elizabeth is still alive. Beck \\"tells no one,\\" as instructed, but searches for the truth and uncovers many unexpected truths along the way.<br />Good mystery that answers all questions asked during the read. Something about the writing style bothered me - I just can't place it. Mostly in descriptions, I found myself missing what was just read and having to constantly go back. I thought I was just tired, but it happened all through the book. I'll try another Coben book and see what's up.	2002-06-21
US	43180312	R36XYQJY74CV45	1551668114	761264374	Thursdays At Eight	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Friendship is the key	In Southern California, four women, who met at a journal-writing class, now meet each Thursday for breakfast - four very different women with one thing in common: they are friends.<br />Clare Craig's husband left her and their two sons about a year ago for a 20-year old. Clare is just trying to live well and put the anger and hatred behind her. Learning a secret about her husband changes everything.<br />Liz Kenyon, a 57-year old hospital administrator, is alone on New Year's Eve for the first time. Her husband was killed in a car accident 6-years ago, and her two children have recently moved out or away. Liz is trying to live contentedly by herself, but finds herself attracted to Sean Jamison, a young, womanizing pediatrician.<br />Karen Curtis is a starving actress working as a substitute teacher, using the degree her mother keeps reminding her that &quot;we  paid for.&quot; Karen feels she's a huge embarrassment and disappointment to her mother, unlike her perfect older sister, Victoria. But Karen soon learns just how perfect Victoria really is.<br />Julia Murchison seems to have it all - a great husband and marriage, and two terrific teenagers. She owns a small knit shop where the personal touch keeps the customers returning. Julia is trying to be grateful for what she has and see the positive side of things. Life throws her a curveball - she's 40 and pregnant.<br />My first book by Debbie Macomber. A smooth, light read. Wonderful character development. Very well-written and enjoyable.	2002-06-16
US	43180312	R2VMYRKMIY27VZ	0684867621	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon : A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Pretty Good	Young Trisha McFarland is put through the test of her young life while on what started out as a six-mile hike on the Maine-NH branch of the Appalachian Trail. Mom's been difficult since the divorce and Trisha's older brother Pete hasn't been much better. Trying to escape their constant arguing, Trisha allows herself to fall a little behind, but wanders off the path, takes a wrong turn and falls deeper into the woods, finding herself completely lost.<br />Trisha's Boston Red Sox hero, number 36, relief pitcher Tom Gordon, helps comfort her as she catches a couple games on her Walkman and through her own vivid imagination. A story of a child's terror, her faith and her love of the \\"game.\\"<br />A pretty good story that really held my interest. Growing up just south of Boston, I really enjoyed all the Red Sox talk.	2002-06-13
US	43180312	R2ZEUQSEGZCJ3E	0553800957	928039507	The Interrogation	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Race against time	1952, 7:00 p.m., Anytown, USA -<BR>Police detectives Jack Pierce and Norman Cohen have only 11-hours for a final interrogation of Albert Jay Smalls. Smalls - a young vagrant who lives in a drainpipe, trying to live by selling things he finds - is the prime suspect in the murder of 8-year-old Catherine Lake. But, the police don't have enough evidence to hold him. A true race against time for detectives Pierce and Cohen. They have 11-hours to get more evidence, a confession, something . . . or the suspect walks!<br />Speaking of time . . . the detectives had 11-hours; I finished this book in 7! Reached the 1/2-way mark before going to bed. Next morning, put on the coffee and started reading again. Author Thomas H. Cook kept pulling me in further and further. This is my first book by Cook and I WILL read him again.	2002-06-10
US	43180312	R2AQGLQAB6MHDU	0345388771	383851428	Primal Fear	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Suspense, Highly Recommended	The city of Chicago is shocked when their \\"saint of Lakeview Drive,\\" Archbishop Richard Bernard Rushman, is brutally murdered in his own rectory.<br />Nineteen year old Aaron Stampler is found crouched in a church confessional, covered in the bishop's blood, mumbling, \\"Didn't do it, Mama.\\"<br />Attorney Martin Vail is known for his rough tactics as well as his brilliant performances in the courtroom. He is hated by every prosecutor in the city. Vail loves and lives the law.<br />Vail is forced to defend Aaron Stampler as sort of a \\"slap on the wrist.\\" Aaron's Appalachian mountain accent and angelic appearance is only the beginning to a great defense.<br />Author William Diehl hits the jackpot with this tale of murder and suspense. His characters are so real in their descriptions and dialog, it's easy to love and/or hate them. Great book to recommend.	2002-03-17
US	43180312	R2XU49Y6MLZAN	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	All Hail to The Hobbit	Dating back to 1937, THE HOBBIT is truly a timeless classic. This wonderfully vivid fantasy stands perfectly well on its own, but also sets the stage for Tolkein's grand work, &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;<br />Hobbits are (or were) little people, smaller than bearded dwarves, but without beards or magic. They dress brightly and are somewhat fat in the stomach. They don't need shoes and have good-natured faces. Bilbo Baggins is a very well-to-do hobbit.<br />When Gandalf the Wizard comes calling on Bilbo, offering a great adventure, Bilbo graciously declines. However, Bilbo is cleverly tricked into joining, or rather leading, 13 dwarves on a long and dangerous quest for a long lost golden treasure.<br />The Hobbit captures the hearts of young adults and adults alike; a classic to be read over and over again.	2001-11-11
US	43180312	R2XHNZSVR411WS	0312977026	551641485	K-Pax	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Next stop - K-PAX!	At the Manhattan Psychiatric Hospital, Dr. Gene Brewer eagerly holds sessions with his new patient prot (no capitals, rhymes with goat). prot is a while male in his early thirties. He appears to be very normal, friendly and very pleasant. However, he also claims to be from the planet K-PAX. Fact or fantasy?<br />prot loves traveling in space (faster than the speed of light), has a great sense of humor and feels that Earth's produce alone is &quot;worth the trip.&quot; On K-PAX there's no crime, no laws and no lawyers. There are no schools or government. There is no formal structure of &quot;family&quot; like we know it. The inhabitants of K-PAX work when it's needed, eat and sleep when it's needed and educated themselves when it is needed. prot will be returning to his home soon and can take only one other with him.<br />The other patients at the hospital love prot and seem to be improving because of his presence and advice - and all want to be the one return to K-PAX. Dr. Brewer can only conclude that prot suffers from multiple personality disorder. However he can't explain the acurate detail of prot's vast intergalactic knowledge.<br />K-PAX isn't just a story of psychiatry. It is a story that questions and challenges human nature. I love a good book that makes me think and reflect. I highly recommend this truly awesome page-turner.	2001-10-13
US	43180312	R2AC1QFWQ60576	0446606324	566263850	The Winner	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A &quot;Winner&quot; Indeed	What would you do if someone offered you $100 million dollars and all you had to do was leave the country and never return? Yeah, me too! But then I read THE WINNER.<br />LuAnn Tyler is only 20 years old and already a dirt-poor single mother with an 8 month old daughter living in a trailer in Georgia. When a strange man, whom she thought was offering her a job, says he can guarantee that she'll win the national lottery, LuAnn's better judgement tells her to decline. But she comes home to find her boyfriend murdered and herself killing another intruder in self-defense. Alone and desperate, she takes the stranger's incredible offer which leads her to New York City to accept her lottery winnings: $100 million dollars. She has, however, agreed to the stranger's stipulations: She must leave the country and never return; he will control and invest the lottery winnings; LuAnn will live off the investment earnings; at the end of ten years, the entire $100 million will be returned to her in full. Ten years moving around Europe doesn't sound too bad. But LuAnn secretly returns to the US after the ten years, putting herself in grave danger, as well as the lives of her daughter, Lisa, and the two men she loves.<br />This is my 2nd Baldacci book, the first being his latest, WISH YOU WELL. Hard to believe they were written by the same author. Both incredibly well-written but with very different writing styles. Baldacci has outstanding character development. The stranger, the financial genious, is a great villan. He's truly evil. It seems there's nothing he can't get done. I also picked up on the changes in LuAnn after the ten years had passed. She's such a strong-willed character. Her growth and maturity is so apparent.<br />I don't know enough about the government or the lotteries to say if &quot;a fix&quot; is really possible. However, Baldacci's brilliant writing makes me want to believe it could happen.	2001-09-11
US	43180312	R2UHPC4CVXHWVH	0316693359	330356940	Miracle on the 17th Green: A Novel about Life, Love, Family, Miracles ... and Golf	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Fore!	Know this: I don't play golf. But I understand and appreciate the game, which comes in handy for MIRACLE ON THE 17TH GREEN. I bought the book because is was co-written by Mr. Patterson, it was only 149-pages with short chapters, and it received some great reviews. Golf was not the key attraction here. Travis McKinley of Illinois, is 50 (but looks 42). His marriage is on the outs. He hates his job as an Ad copywriter. But that's ok; he just got fired. Now he's FREE! Free to attend golf school in Tallahassee, Florida, to qualify for 1-year on the PGA Seniors Tour. You see, on Christmas Day, Travis played a truly fabulous round of golf. He felt he was finally ready to play with the big boys. Next thing you know, he's at the PGA Senior Open at Pebble Beach with Ray Floyd and Jack Nicklaus, and Bill Murray cheering them on! In our daily lives we must believe in ourselves. We must make time for our families. We must NOT be late for Christmas dinner! And we must believe in miracles.	2001-08-29
US	43180312	REX60NRXA9JES	0553801163	249097119	Sacred Sins	Books	3	16	16	N	N	An Oldie but a Goodie	The weather isn't the only thing heating up in Washington D.C. A young, blond woman is found strangled. The murder weapon is a white, silk priest's amice. Attached to the victim is a note, &quot;Her Sins Are Forgiven.&quot; Police detective Ben Paris is part of the special investigations team assigned to the &quot;priest&quot; case, along with his long-time friend and partner, Ed Jackson. When psychiatrist Dr. Tess Court joins the investigation team, not everyone is pleased. Is Tess getting too close to the case? Is she getting too close to Ben? SACRED SINS is one of Nora Roberts' earlier suspense novels. I recently read her latest, THE VILLA, and find that her style of writing and character development has really grown over the years in comparison. Nevertheless, I enjoyed SACRED SINS. It's well-written, starts off with a bang to reel you in, and shocks you in the end. I found myself appreciating the relationship between the two detectives, Ben and Ed, more than the relationship between Ben and Tess. But maybe it's just me.	2001-08-26
US	43180312	RMTQMFKQ9IKQ7	0446527165	543219405	Wish You Well	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great Literature from Baldacci	At the young age of 12, Lou Cardinal and her 7 year old brother, Oz, have already experienced their first great tragedy. A car accident has claimed the life of their father and left their mother confined to a wheelchair and catatonic. Practically orphans, the two travel by train with their mother from New York City to the Appalachian mountains of Virginia to live with Lou's namesake, her great-grandmother, Louisa Mae Cardinal, who they've never met.<br />The early 1940s brings no modern luxuries to the mountain. Louisa, approaching the age of 80, continues to live and work without electricity or indoor plumbing. With the help of &quot;Diamond&quot; and Eugene, two local orphans, Lou and Oz quickly learn the ways of the land. Each day they milk cows, collect chicken eggs, feed hogs, and learn to work and love the land where their father was raised. Oz continuously wishes for his mother to recover, while Lou keeps her &quot;well wishes&quot; to herself. WISH YOU WELL is a story of family and tradition, hardship and survival. It is a story of hope.<br />This &quot;breakout&quot; novel, my first from David Baldacci, is a tender story comparable to the great literature of our time. It took a couple chapters to get used to this style of writing again, however, I feel this would be a great book for younger readers to cherish.	2001-08-23
US	43180312	R3EYE8KLR7N2UZ	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Funny, familiar book for the ladies	Today I felt like Becky Bloomwood. There's workmen sanding and leveling the walkway by the entrance to my apartment. I'm trapped inside. When it gets quiet, I peek out the door and race for the car. Once on the road, I hit every red light and turn down one street finding a 3-car accident blocking the road. I'm having a partial anxiety attack in my car. Too many things are trying to stop me from getting to the mall!<br />The title called to me, the description had me. At 25, Becky Bloomwood is a laughable shopaholic (I've heard of worse cases that were NOT fiction). She shares a posh London flat with her great friend Suze and works as a financial journalist, of all things, for \\"Successful Savings\\" magazine. Hating her job and having no love interests, Becky's life IS shopping. She quickly finds herself in serious debt, avoiding calls and letters from her creditors, and realizes she needs help. Dad's advise: C.B. or M.M.M. Cut Back or Make More Money. Becky's unsuccessful attempts at both are a riot, although you pity her. She eventually starts trusting the advice she's been giving to others.<br />Sophie Kinsella's main character is wonderfully quirky and complex. She's mostly an optimist but has a very low view of herself in the world of high finance. Becky gets herself into some humiliating situations and made me laugh out loud at the rationale for some of her spending-sprees. Some sounded very familiar. She comes up with some really creative, but temporary solutions to her credit problems, but let's not give too much away. You just have to read it yourself!<br />Sadly, I buzzed through this book in only 27-hours; just couldn't put it down for too long. I actually resented having to go to work - I wanted to stay home and read! Much of the London lingo was foreign to me but didn't take away from the story. It's easy to figure out. I asked a friend about the currency. One pound is about $1.50 dollars. A \\"quid\\" is slang for pound, like a \\"buck\\" is slang for dollar. Weshould all know that the \\"loo\\" is the bathroom. This one threw me: \\"pissed\\" doesn't mean angry in England, it means drunk! Hope it helps.	2001-08-18
US	43180312	R33SUWSJ6WJP1J	0399147128	900032230	The Villa	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Molto Bene!	As a wine-lover with a sister who lives in northern California, I was naturally attracted to the Napa Valley setting of THE VILLA, my first from Nora Roberts. The merger between two winemaking families, Giambelli and MacMillan, seemed a smart and inevitable business move. How the players plan to work together and embrace this change is another issue. Sophia Giambelli and Tyler MacMillan have known each other since they were kids, their family's vineyards as the other's backyard. The formation of Giambelli-MacMillan Wines throws them both into each other's hair, work and hearts.<br />THE VILLA has triple-romance, conspiracy, lies and deception, murder, and, well . . . wine! Everything a great story needs. Add a few twists and surprises and there's never a dull moment. What one reader may see as a &quot;slow-part,&quot; I saw as a wonderful flow of descriptive background and detail. The characters didn't need to be constantly involved for this marvelous story to captivate me. Roberts' writing style is superb. I could &quot;see&quot; the vineyards of Napa Valley and the streets of Venice. Three generations of well-developed characters interact beautifully throughout the story. Their actions and dialog made them unique and very real. (I recommend Ben Affleck to play Tyler MacMillan on the big screen!)	2001-08-17
US	43180312	R1L36BQ7CMZEJ8	0515090379	679725329	Separate Beds	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Predictable, yet worthwhile	As my first Lavyrle Spencer book, I found Separate Beds a very worthwhile read despite its predictable storyline.<br />Catherine and Clay are complete opposites; from personality to family background and social status. Finding themselves plunged into a marriage of convenience (or inconvenience due to an unexpected pregnancy), they try to make the best of their differences. Obvious troubles occur as well as some unexpected ones.<br />This is a sweet story that I finished in only 3-days. Spencer's writing style is pretty simple to fly through, giving you enough detail and description to keep you interested without boring you with too much of it. Recommended for those who want a good story but a book they don't have to concentrate on too hard.	2001-08-11
