US	43208742	R2QT5N226PBIRO	0451205367	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best for those who find most money books to be boring	The parables in this story are meant to bring some basic principles of financial planning to life through the use of stories, using the wealth of ancient Babylon as a backdrop. The advice itself is all still sound today, which is remarkable, given the book's age.<br /><br />This would be a wonderful book for anyone who needs to learn some of the basic lessons of earning, saving, and spending money (or needs to be reminded of them!), but doesn't respond well to dry manuals. It's a natural choice for kids who are just starting to discover the pleasures and dangers of money; at that age, books can have a big impact of values!<br /><br />Don't look to this book to give you advanced financial planning information or directions on how to start a Roth IRA. If you're a financial whiz, you've probably already mastered many of these principles. Still, this book is considered a classic, and if you're not familiar with it, you may want to check it out from the library for a quick read, even if the content won't be new.	2005-07-19
US	43208742	R1BYITWOVSUICV	1557882908	712353106	Healthy Crockery Cookery	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Nice addition to a slow cooker library.	I've enjoyed all the recipes I've made from this cookbook so far. One nice thing about this cookbook is that it has lots of recipes for wraps, which you won't find in most slow-cooker cookbooks.<br /><br />In response to some of the other reviews, I don't think this book is particularly \\"gourmet\\". I've always been able to find all the ingredients and most are not really that exotic.<br /><br />The book avoids the typical \\"add a can of condensed cream of mushroom soup\\" for the most part, which is a nice change. Some of the recipes call for a thickener when it really should be optional; I prefer broth-y sauces to gravies. Omitting this step will save even more calories.<br /><br />Overall, these are not extremely low in calories and fat, but you shouldn't need to eat big portions of them to feel satisfied, either.	2005-01-24
US	43208742	RUKQKVYZO7KD5	069621895X	134369565	Low-Carb Slow Cooker Recipes (Better Homes & Gardens)	Books	2	13	15	N	N	So-so recipes	I bought this book to get some variety in my slow-cooker recipe collection, not because I am on a low-carb diet. So I've made some of the recipes, and they're not terrible, but they aren't great, either. Although the book does avoid the typical \\"add a can of condensed cream of mushroom soup\\" for the most part, which is a nice change, nearly all the recipes still call for some kind of starch to make the sauce thick: tapioca, cornstarch, flour. If you don't want every meal to be covered with a thick, jellied sauce, don't make these recipes! A good cook will be able to adapt them, but I wish I'd saved my money.	2005-01-10
US	43208742	R2J0Z6UMQHCW0Q	0060952199	212708367	Everybody Loves Meatloaf: More Than 100 Recipes for Loaves and Fixings	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great addition to any cookbook library	Everyone laughs when I tell them I have a cookbook with nothing but meatloaf recipes, but I've found it to be very useful. The author does a very nice job of discusing basic meatloaf \\"theory\\", (with some nice reminiscences about her grandmother) which makes it easy invent your own recipes in addition to using the ones in the book. Every recipe I've made from this book has been a winner, even the ones that depart pretty far from the meatloaf norm, like the Curried Apple Chicken Loaf. I also like the many suggestions for what to serve with the recipes, and the \\"fixings\\" recipes at the back.	2005-01-10
US	43208742	R1E5273AN71DO4	0880118113	543165850	Triathlon 101	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lives up to its title	As the title suggests, this is a great book for getting a comprehensive review of what it takes to run your first triathlon. If you are looking for one book that will cover all three areas of training and describe what it is really like to compete in a triathlon, this is it.<br /> Although the author is an experienced triathlete, he avoids the tendency to digress too much into personal reflections, which many of the biography-style guides to triathlon do. The practical advice about equipment is very helpful and not tied to specific products. I found the section that talked about \\"the frugal triathlete\\" to be very refreshing.<br />The information on workouts is definitely enough to get anyone started, no matter what your background. I'm a swimmer who has never run before, and I am so pleased to be able to follow the \\"initiation\\" workouts for non-runners. The blank templates for workout schedules are also very handy.<br />This is a perfect book to get started with and is likely to remain relevant for years to come.	2004-02-12
US	43208742	R1493ZV0O8CEXF	0399527567	545891813	Run For Your Life: A Book For Beginning Women Runners	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Chatty but good...for beginners	While it seems that many readers enjoy the conversational tone of this book, I found it to be frustrating. I didn't find the personal anecdotes to be that motivating, frankly. And some of them were downright boring (do I really need to be told that I can wear a watch while running to help me keep track of the time like the author does? Surely I could have figured that out on my own?).<br />The suggestions for getting started are fairly simple and easy to follow, which is a plus. If you don't like reading much or just want a few suggestions to get you started, you might like this book. But you are looking for solid research, a wide variety of opinions and viewpoints, and detailed information about starting a running program, you might want to check out a few other books.	2004-02-05
US	43208742	R5N1X6AWU4U40	0060957050	517006918	The Prenatal Prescription	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Great information AND great writing	There aren't many books out there that address ways you can prepare BEFORE conception to promote the health of your child. The Prenatal Prescription carefully details the ways in which you can prepare your body, both before and after conception, to provide a healthy environment for your developing baby.<br />There are two things that set this book apart from other preganancy prep books. The first is that Peter Nathanielsz has carefully surveyed the research literature to answer some of the questions that every parent wants to know during pregancy (e.g. Can I exercise? Is caffiene okay?).  He sifts through the evidence to evaluate the current thinking on prenatal development.  It's very helpful to have access to this information in a pregnancy book. He also addresses topics that the reader may not even know are pertinent to pregancy; the chapter on stress and its effects on fetal development is fascinating, and the chapter on exercise is worth the cost of the book alone.<br />The second thing that sets this book apart is its tone. Nathanielsz writes with clarity and with great respect for the mother-to-be.  He presents complex information in a way that is easy to process and absorb. This is a nice balance point between overly cutesy popular press and the too-technical-for-laypeople scientific literature. Finally, he manages to convey the need to provide a good prenatal environment without terrifying the reader, frequently putting the information back into the context of the 'big picture'.<br />This is an excellent book for anyone just thinking about when to plan a family; some of the recommended changes may take time to put into place.	2003-10-30
US	43208742	R2DMMLRPP4D21Q	0743417046	67451614	The Soul of the Child: Nurturing the Divine Identity of Our Children	Books	1	12	14	N	N	Disappointing execution of a good idea	\\"By the end of this book--I hope, by the end of this chapter--you will say to yourself, I thought I was a free thinker, but now I now better what freedom is.\\" pg.xxv<br />Wow, that's a bold way to start off one's introduction! Alas, Michael Gurian fails to provide convincing evidence, whether theological, philosophical, or scientific, that would be likely to convince his readers of many of the bold claims that he sets forth in this book. These include the creation of a new species of man, \\"homo infiniens\\", the rejection of any distinction between the mind and body, and the ideas that the soul is light and that God is a child.<br />What Gurian does instead is skim lightly on the surface of the major religious traditions, the science of neuropsychology, and his own 'epiphanies'. I kept expecting to find more substance to these claims, but it was never realized. For example, in trying to defend his claim that the soul and body are one, Gurian states the following:<br />\\"In the Far East, the foundational religious text, the Bhagavad Gita, tells us: \\"When the body is freed of all passions, the soul is purified.\\" This language, too, makes us think at first glance that soul and body are separate. Hinduism genearlly is interpreted as saying that the soul is real, the body an illusion. Yet if we understand the sentence as an early form of human language, we can see that unity is inherent in it; soul and body are completely interdependent.\\" pg. 138-139<br />And thus ends the section! We are given no further explanation of what Gurian means by understanding the sentence as 'an early form of human language\\". These kinds of unsatisfying defenses pervade the entire book.<br />And this is a shame, because a book that could explain the need for \\"nuturing the divine identity of our children\\" and providing good ways to do so would certainly be a worthwhile contribution. But this is not that book. If you are intrigued by Gurian's claims, you'll need to go elsewhere to find them fleshed out.ed out.	2003-05-06
US	43208742	R3RPY18JD9LK7S	0465026532	589829762	Circumcision: A History Of The World's Most Controversial Surgery	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Cultural History of Circumcision	This is not an academic history text or a manual for parents who are trying to decide whether to circumcise their infant sons. But it will probably be of interest to both groups; after all, the list of books covering male circumcision is quite a short one, and Gollaher's book is a fascinating read.<br />David Gollaher provides a very readable cultural history of the practice of circumcision for the general public, explaining the orgins and prevalence of this custom in modern American medical practice. He succeeds in his goal of making the familiar strange and the strange familiar. The strange is made familiar as Gollaher discusses the role that circumcision has played in a wide variety of cultures from aboriginal cultures to Judaism to Islam. And the familiar becomes more and more strange as Gollaher reviews the forces that caused circumcision to become adopted into the medical community in America. The more one reads about what the foreskin is and does, the odder it seems that this is such a routine procedure.<br />I'd recommend this to anyone interested in a fairly balanced  historical account of circumcision and the forces that have made it such an entrenched practice in the West.	2003-05-02
US	43208742	R3SH9YMUW8CVK0	0805071547	983206039	Reclaiming Childhood: Letting Children Be Children in Our Achievement-Oriented Society	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Returning childhood to the kids	One of the great strengths of this book is that it reminds the reader of what it really was like to be a child: how imaginative, artistic, and connected to nature kids are naturally. It's hard for me to remember now, but there was a time when my favorite activity was hanging out in the backyard and just looking at leaves and under rocks, sitting quietly, and thinking things over.  I could do this for hours.<br />It also made me recall the year I spent conducting research in preschool classrooms. I visited many wonderful preschools, but I remember being particularly struck by the atmosphere in the Montessori classroom I visited. There was a sense of calm there that I have never seen anywhere else. At first it seemed eerie; surely these kids were being coerced into behaving so quietly and going about their business in such an orderly graceful way. I remember in particular the child who was bringing around a tray of nuts that he had shelled and offering them graciously to the other children. But the longer I stayed, the more I realized that this deep sense of peacefulness originated from the kids' satisfaction in being allowed to choose their own tasks at their own pace.<br />William Crain reminds us of some of the charateristics of children's development that have fallen by the wayside as the push for academic achievement (as measured by standardized tests) has become stronger and stronger. The child's desire to be connected with nature, to use her imagination, and to produce art and poetry is valued so much less in our schools than the three R's. As a result they are in danger of disappearing from the curriculum completely, especially in schools with limited resources. Yet these activities are precisely what researchers in the last two centuries have observed to be at the very heart of childhood.<br /><br />The assumption that our children's future is more important than childhood itself  has become so commonplace that it is difficult to shake it even for parents who are committed to a parenting style that is child-centered. This book challenges the assumption that academic achievement is a goal unto itself, rather than a by-product of kids who are happy, well-loved, and allowed to grow at their own pace.  It will remain a powerful reminder for parents committed to a child-centered parenting style of what childhood is for in the first place.are committed to a parenting style that is child-centered. This book challenges the assumption that academic achievement is a goal unto itself, rather than a by-product of kids who are happy, well-loved, and allowed to grow at their own pace.  It will remain a powerful reminder for parents committed to a child-centered parenting style of what childhood is for in the first place.	2003-04-18
US	43208742	R1OX87QGJUCNBN	0471293334	200393350	Mothers & Others for a Livable Planet Guide to Natural Baby Care: Nontoxic and Environmentally Friendly Ways to Take Care of Your New Child	Books	3	23	27	N	N	Leaves out a lot....	While this book does have many resources for parents trying to incorporate non-toxic and environmentally-friendly practices into their parenting, it assumes a very traditional Western approach to parenting, one in which one of the biggest jobs new parents face is acquiring the right STUFF to parent. Although there is a lot of information on cribs, there are few recommendations for parents who might want to co-sleep or have a family bed, such as three-sided cribs that attach to the parent's bed, or equipment to make the family bed safer. The book presents the pros and cons of  cloth diapers vs. disposables but does not mention anything about natural infant hygiene or elimination communication. Even the cloth diaper section is pretty skimpy, about a page and a half. Nor is there much information on baby carrying and wearing products, such as the huge variety of fabric slings now available.<br />It's not that parents who want to protect the enviroment need to adopt all of these practices, but a book that is supposed to offer 'safe, practical and affordable baby care' for 'a livable planet' should at least mention some of these options in some depth and help make parents aware of them. This seems especially important in that these choices will determine what and how much you need to buy for your baby. If you plan to keep your baby in the same room or bed with you, you won't need worry about stripping lead paint in the baby's room. If you plan to use an infant potty after naps, you may not need to invest in a changing table. If you wear your baby in a sling for most of her first 18 months of life, you may not need a stroller, bassinett, playpen, walker or rocker.<br />Use this book as a helpful guide to finding good, natural baby products once you've researched the most eco-friendly parenting practices (somewhere else).	2003-04-13
US	43208742	RCHI29HTYWG0S	0553347187	660195263	Before You Conceive: The Complete Pregnancy Guide	Books	4	4	6	N	N	More reassuring than alarming	This book gives a very thorough treatment of the factors that may influence your child during pregnancy and even pre-pregnancy, for better or for worse. I found the long lists of factors reassuring rather than alarming, because much of it is common sense (avoiding toxins, diseases, drug interactions, and increasing your own health)and most of the suggestions about behavior modification are quite feasible for most people, if not easy. Your child will thank you, though. Having seen some of the struggles that children of mothers who took drugs during pregnancy have to face 5, 10, and 20 years later, I know that getting this information out is very important.<br />You'll probably want another book to help you implement some of the lifestyle changes, like losing weight, giving up tobacco and alcohol, and starting a fitness program, but this does give a healthy dose of motivation. It's also a great book to read well before your pregnancy starts; many of these changes will take time. keep this in mind if giving this book as a gift!	2003-04-04
US	43208742	R2TEW9YNMFIBMS	0517704528	938883546	Stylish Solutions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great idea book	This is a great book to go to for inspiration when you want to give an ordinary room a unique twist. The focus on some of the often overlooked pieces like coffeetables and sideboards sets this book apart from other design texts, and make it possible to make a few small changes that could really enliven an entire room. The photographs are wonderful, and because each setting is so detailed, you can look at them again and again without getting bored. Not all the ideas are ones that I would want to apply in my own home (that would be impossible, after all). But they are all interesting spaces that I would enjoy exploring; I definitely can't say that for all design books. While this is not a budget-oriented book (and it doesn't claim to be), many of the ideas could be translated into something affordable; more 'vintage' and less 'antique', fewer luxury fabrics, etc. etc. There are a lot of examples of adapting salvaged materials, which appealed to my budget.<br />If you want advice on how to pull off an entire room, or want something very traditional looking ..., you'll probably want to look elsewhere. Otherwise, enjoy this book!	2003-03-18
US	43208742	R2U3GF9MXF96OK	0472082922	360034116	Varieties of English (Alliance (Ann Arbor, Mich.))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book for ESL conversation classes!	This is a really useful book to introducing some of the basic principles of sociolinguistics to non-nativer speakers of English, such as register, dialect, and so on. The activities are interesting and will definitely spark conversation among students. It will also help them sort out the varieties of English they are exposed to in daily life, which may aid understanding and acquisition.	2003-03-18
US	43208742	R23VBA7SLXR41J	039952536X	558426653	Use What You Have Decorating: Transform Your Home in One Hour with 10 Simple Design Principles	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Timeless advice--a real rarity for a decorating book!	Reading a decorating book is a little like reading a glossy fashion magazine. Often the spreads look beautiful, but you can't apply them to your own lifestyle because the goods are too expensive, too impractical, and too trendy. Everything will look dated in a few years, much of it isn't functional, yet costs a bundle.<br />This book transcends that problem by giving easy-to-follow advice about furniture placement. It's kind of like secular Feng Shui. The focus is on making a home that is comfortable,functions well, and looks balanced. Ward sums it all up in a list of principles that can be applied to ANY home, on any budget, all in a very short time frame. The before and after photos are very helpful, even in black and white. Ward is also a great teacher. She seems to really want her readers to start developing their own sense of proportion and flow. She doesn't just tell you what's wrong with each room, she adds clues to the 'before' photos to help you really examine the room and notice the crucial features that are throwing things off balance.<br />Aside from the general principles, she does include a few notions that might irk some readers (no art in the bedroom, place the pillows on your couch with the points up). But these are few and easy to ignore, and readers shouldn't let it detract from the main thrust of the book.<br />I checked this book out of the library, along with lots of the oversized, glossy, single-name decorator books, but I can tell even now that this is the only one I'm going to want to buy it eventually.	2003-03-16
US	43208742	R1URU48PY2OM8Q	0472083341	591384575	Discussion Starters: Speaking Fluency Activities for Advanced ESL/EFL Students	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Very good activities	Our ESL program for advanced adult speakers uses this book as a textbook in our conversation and fluency course, and as a supplement to all of our other courses. It provides great activities to get adult learners talking. The lessons are easy to adapt to your existing curriculum, or you can plan a course around them.	2003-02-14
US	43208742	R11XXCP7J3VL40	0130072532	113644401	Accurate English: A Complete Course in Pronunciation	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Great resource for adults	We have used Accurate English as a textbook in our pronunication and intonation classes at our university because it is a great technical resource for students who are trying to improve their pronunciation and simultaneously want to learn something about how sounds are produced.  The book's approach is to help non-native speakers learn about and experiment with the principles of articulatory phonetics (the way the sounds of language are produced by the mouth, tongue and vocal tract). It explains many of the terms used in linguistics and speech pathology in a way that anyone can understand, and encourages students to become more aware of the ways that they produce speech sounds. This approach can be very very helpful, even with students whose non-native speech habits have become deeply entrenched.<br />The book covers all the essential components of a course in pronunciation: consonants, vowels, rhythm, stress, and intonation. It has lots of exercises to help students learn the sounds of American English and they way they are produced. It also has some of the best information I have seen on learning how the sounds of English correspond with orthography (spelling).  It is a perfect book for one-on-one tutoring in accent reduction or pronunciation. If you are using it as  a classroom text, it tends to be a little dry, but it does contain a lot of exercises. They just aren't as context-based as some of the others out there. It wouldn't be hard to supplement the exercises in this book to keep students interested, however.  It can also be a resource for teachers to use to supplement an advanced class with meatier material.<br />If you are a student, you will need to find a native speaker to help you with some of the exercises and provide feedback.  If you buy the tapes, you'll be able to listen to the exercises, but you'll still need to get someone to listen to you and help adjust your pronunciation. This is true for all pronunciation books, by the way; it's not unique to this book.<br />Great book!this book.<br />Great book!	2003-02-13
US	43208742	RKBQ2X7OCNC9G	0838402089	457599063	Well Said: Pronunciation for Clear Communication	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great for use in tutoring or in the classroom	We use this book in our pronunciation/intonation ESL classes (for advanced adult speakers) because it covers all the essential areas of sound production: pronunciation, intonation, word stress, rhythm, and linking. The examples are very helpful and clear. The exercises are well written and relevant for adult speakers.<br />The supplemental materials are also great, especially for people working with a tutor. There is a speech profile to be completed by the student and reviewed by an instructor or tutor, which can help students focus on their strengths and weaknesses. There is also a good review of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) which is very useful for students who are not familiar with this transcription system. There are also sections which give an overview of the vowel and consonant sounds of American English. It also has good suggestions for independent learning, which are great to give students who have finished a class and are wondering what to do next.<br />The book can be used with or without the tapes. You do need to have access to a native speaker to make use of many of the exercises. This could be your teacher or tutor, or even just an American friend. I don't see this a weakness, because anyone studying English needs regular native speaker feedback , but it is something to be aware of if you are studying on your own.<br />Overall, one of the best pronunciation books available.	2003-02-12
US	43208742	R1QBX92IFRKWL4	0838441254	686385568	Problem/Solution: A Reference for ESL Writers (College ESL)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A very good reference for non-native writers	I've made this a required reference book for some of my ESL writing classes for advanced graduate students. It is a collection of problems (mostly with grammar) that non-native speakers encounter when writing. Multiple solutions to the problem are given for each entry. This book uses a lot of vocabulary that is common to writing handbooks and grammar texts, so it might not be appropriate for beginning writers. It's also to be used as reference, rather than a textbook or a general writing guide. If you are looking for something to keep nearby as you write to answer questions about grammar in writing, this is a perfect book for you.	2003-02-12
US	43208742	RNJET1QSY7JVF	0472085247	6582194	Toward Speaking Excellence: The Michigan Guide to Maximizing Your Performance on the TSE (R) Test and SPEAK (R) Test	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A very  helpful book, but the format of the TSE has changed!	Please note, in September 2003, the Educational Testing Service changed the format of the TSE. Six of the questions included in this book are no longer used on the TSE, and three new questions have been added. This is still a very valuable book to use when preparing for SPEAK test, as that test has not yet changed, but if you are preparing for the TSE, make sure you visit the ETS website to learn about the new changes! And there is now a second edition of this book that will prepare you for the new version of the TSE.<br /><br />This is the first edition of the only book I am aware of that prepares students for the TSE and SPEAK tests.  It is used at my university in test preparation workshops and ESL classes.<br /><br />The book explains how the test is scored and what the rating criteria are. I believe this is very helpful, as many students worry that their answers must be linguistically perfect to get a good score. It also provides descriptions of each question type, time limits, and strategies to use for answering questions well.<br /><br />The book includes practice questions that students can use to get familiar with the format of the test. This is very important, because one of the most difficult things about taking the test is getting used to the format and kind of questions asked. Once you are comfortable with answering these kinds of questions, you can let your true speaking skills show.<br /><br />The book is not perfect. Some of the questions are better written than others, and there are a few typos. However, for the price, this is a very useful book. I agree with the last reviewer that it is important to get feedback from a native speaker as much as possible when using this book or any  other test preparation book.	2003-02-11
US	43208742	R1S6XZY6WEK152	0786880007	306120397	Simplify Your Life: 100 Ways to Slow Down and Enjoy the Things That Really Matter	Books	3	73	77	N	N	A mixed bag	You'll enjoy this book if you are just getting started in the process of simplifying your life, or if you're looking for a little extra inspiration. However, the book is too limited to use an an overall guide.<br />To understand why, remember that this is really a collection of ideas that St. James and her husband have already put into place in their lives.  They were hard core yuppie materialists in the 80's and decided to simplify their lives to have more time for each other.  The author's recommendations reflect this orientation.  &quot;Get rid of your boat&quot; is obviously not going to apply for everyone. Some of the suggestions to limit your time with others also probably assume that you've already found a life partner; single folks should keep this in mind as they read.<br />The format of this book also makes for  a strange alternation  between huge, life-changing choices (move to where you can be close to your workplace), and weirdly specific recommendations (stop using nail polish).  I found this to be a little odd, but if you are just looking for ideas, it probably won't bother you. I also found the suggestion to &quot;change your expecations&quot;, which turned out to mean, &quot;avoid doing difficult things&quot; to be defeatist and unhelpful.<br />There are some great ideas in this book in every section.  Some of the suggestions are challenging, but could yield great results. Each one, although not helpful to EVERYONE,  will probably be helpful to SOMEONE. For these reasons,  I'm giving it three stars.  The book could be very useful as a way to provoke thought about what is really necessary in your life.  Just don't look to it as an all purpose guide, and keep in mind the backgrounds of the authors  as you read.	2003-02-10
US	43208742	R102MEN7RNC5YF	0345413377	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	2	51	84	N	N	Well, maybe I had it coming...	As a child, I remember reading The Chronicles of Narnia, adoring them,  and then feeling cheated when I was old enough to realize that C.S. Lewis was really talking about Christ and Christianity (I was raised as an Ethical Humanist). Eventually I got over it and learned to love the books again, as well as the books of Madeleine L'Engle and  other Christian writers.<br />But as an adult who has since become a Christian AND a scientist, I don't know if I'll ever be able to get over my disappointment with the Amber Spyglass. I read the first two books and loved them, and was very interested to see how Pullman would resolve the theological puzzles he had set up in The Golden Compass and The Subtle Knife.  When I read that one of Lyra's names was \\"Aeshaster\\" (excuse the spelling), I wondered if Pullman was alluding to 'Easter', and planning to link Lyra with God's love and desire to wipe away sin, turning her into a Christ figure.<br />Instead, Amber Spyglass resonates with deep disappointment in Christianity and especially Catholicism. We are served up God as a dying angel and the Church as a mix of murderers, pedophilic priests, and inquisitors.  Christ, unsurprisingly, is nowhere to be found. After all, a loving Christ who gave his life to bring people closer to God and free them from sin and death would not fit into Pullman's assessment of the Church as being interested only in obliterating every good feeling and impulse.  Nor is it spirituality and the supernatural that are on trial here, it is the Christian Church, period. Pullman gives a loving or at least balanced treatment of shamanism, witches and Tibetan Buddhism, for instance.  I don't object to Pullman listing the abuses of the Christian Church, past or present. I think that's a worthy subject. But in writing this kind of one-sided portrayal, Pullman is at best attacking a straw man, and at worst , is offensive and deeply misleading. Even C.S. Lewis's treatment of the Calormenes in the Narnian Chronicles, which has justly come under fire for tones of racism, is more positive and balanced than this stuff (and Lewis was writing fifty years ago, after all).<br />Perhaps it's ironic that, although Pullman casts Lyra in the role of Eve, she ends up becoming a Christ figure after all. She travels to the land of the dead to redeem a life and rises again, which no one in that world has done before. Like Christ, she desperately wants to provide comfort to all souls, even ones as difficult to love as the Harpies. And again, at the very end of the book, she makes a great sacrifice for the world  because of her great love. There are even overtones of this in Asriel and Marisa Coulter's decision to sacrifice themselves for the sake of their daughter, all in the name of love. If children and adults can recognize Christ or Christian themes in these roles, then that gives me a little comfort.<br />I'm giving this two stars, because the storytelling is still excellent, although this seems like the weakest of the three books.hich has justly come under fire for tones of racism, is more positive and balanced than this stuff (and Lewis was writing fifty years ago, after all).<br />Perhaps it's ironic that, although Pullman casts Lyra in the role of Eve, she ends up becoming a Christ figure after all. She travels to the land of the dead to redeem a life and rises again, which no one in that world has done before. Like Christ, she desperately wants to provide comfort to all souls, even ones as difficult to love as the Harpies. And again, at the very end of the book, she makes a great sacrifice for the world  because of her great love. There are even overtones of this in Asriel and Marisa Coulter's decision to sacrifice themselves for the sake of their daughter, all in the name of love. If children and adults can recognize Christ or Christian themes in these roles, then that gives me a little comfort.<br />I'm giving this two stars, because the storytelling is still excellent, although this seems like the weakest of the three books.	2003-02-07
US	43208742	R2GIDE564HYE3J	0802842372	81683204	When True Simplicity Is Gained: Finding Spiritual Clarity in a Complex World	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Beautiful inside and out	Form combines beautifully with spirit in this lovely little book.  Black and white photographs of Shaker interiors are paired thematically  with prayers from Martin Luther, St. Teresa of Avila, and more. There is also a reference to a scripture verese at the conclusion of each prayer. The combination of these beautiful images, words and verse is perfect for contemplation or a daily devotional.	2003-02-07
US	43208742	R1D2VUH9JIQMQA	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	A great read, but the series disappoints	I wrote the following review before reading the last book of the series, which ended up to be a big disappointment to me for it's unbalanced view of Christianity.<br />\\"Did this book really just come out in 1997? It is bound to be a classic. Like C.S. Lewis and Madeleine L'Engle, Pullman is able to create new worlds that are as believable as they are strange. And his characters--children just as memorable as L'Engle's Meg and Charles Murray and complex as Lewis's Edmund and Lucy--move between these worlds with a heroic mix of courage, sadness and innocence that has me completely enthralled. This is the kind of book that can grow up with you. Younger readers will love Pullman's talent for adventure and fantasy, and find a layer of ethical, theological and metaphysical questions to ponder as they get older.\\"<br />Unfortunately, Pullman's answers to the theological questions he sets up in this book are ultimately disappointing. Read it with this in mind.	2003-02-04
US	43208742	R1UILDI5K6T2FI	0934026262	831923481	Homespun, Handknit	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Bang for the Buck for Beginners	This book is great because the projects are simple, useful, classic, and practical. Beginner knitters can tackle many of the projects, but there are plenty of complicated designs to keep more advanced knitters busy.<br />The designs are classics that won't go out of style, which is important for a knitting book. I've also found that I've been inspired by the projects in this book to experiment with new methods and yarns.  The photos are also very nice and very helpful in choosing a design.<br />The finished products will appeal almost anyone; I've also made a lot of gifts using this book!	2003-02-03
US	43208742	R3LLJ0RI127OZK	0679893105	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	3	9	16	N	N	A great read, but the series disappoints...	The Golden Compass is a page-turner and an adventure to be sure. But I think the reason I really enjoyed it is that I know the characters and creatures of Pullman's fantasy world will stay with me for a long, long, time. They remind me of the characters from L'Engle's 'Time' quartet: passionate, conflicted, flawed, but never, ever, boring and very, very, memorable.<br />This is not a simple sci-fi tale; the ideas are complex and novel. The daemons are fascinating and very appealing. The different cultures of the Scholars, gyptians, witches and armored bears are original as well. Even inanimate objects (the alethiometer, Dust, anbaric charges) play very interesting roles in this story. Also very effective is Pullman's choice to set his tale in a world that very similar to our own, but different in a few startling ways. These differences are never spelled out explicitly for the reader, which leaves you feeling much like the main character Lyra, i.e. caught up in the adventure and hungry to fill in the missing bits of information. A great read!<br />However, when I read the next two books in the series, I was very disappointed.  They resonate with deep disappointment in Christianity and especially Catholicism. We are served up God as a dying angel and the Church as a mix of murderers, pedophilic priests, and inquisitors. Christ, unsurprisingly, is nowhere to be found. After all, a loving Christ who gave his life to bring people closer to God and free them from sin and death would not fit into Pullman's assessment of the Church as being interested only in obliterating every good feeling and impulse.  As I mentioned in my review of the last book, I don't object to Pullman listing the abuses of the Christian Church, past or present. I think that's a worthy subject. But in writing this kind of one-sided portrayal, Pullman is at best attacking a straw man, and at worst , is offensive and deeply misleading, especially to children. Even C.S. Lewis's treatment of the Calormenes in the Narnian Chronicles, which has justly come under fire for tones of racism, is more positive and balanced than this stuff (and Lewis was writing fifty years ago, after all).  I'd urge anyone who wishes to proceed with the rest of the series to take it all with a large grain of salt.es in the Narnian Chronicles, which has justly come under fire for tones of racism, is more positive and balanced than this stuff (and Lewis was writing fifty years ago, after all).  I'd urge anyone who wishes to proceed with the rest of the series to take it all with a large grain of salt.	2003-02-02
US	43208742	R13E2Y186H3W7P	0375504613	440124740	A Short Guide to a Happy Life	Books	2	17	23	N	N	What was she thinking?	Anna Quindlen offers us hints that the painful events in her life have provided her with some valuable wisdom, but she doesn't seem to want  to share it with us.<br />Quindlen is a good writer, with good ideas. So I'm puzzled as to why this little book was published. It's short, about the length of  a short essay or long newspaper column. It may have been originally written, as another reveiwer has noted, as a set of notes for a graduation speech, which would explain the length.<br />But the lack of substance is hard to explain from a Pulitzer Prize winner like Quindlen. The advice isn't bad in itself,  but it doesn't lead anywhere.  With the addition of the black and white stock photos, reading the book felt a bit like browsing in a greeting card store. The reader moves from one platitude to another with only a tasteful black and white photo of two girls on a beach to mark the transition to the next idea.<br />It's particularly frustrating, because I would imagine that anyone with Quindlen's experiences and skill with words could have reached a little deeper and given us something unique. I want to hear more about the homeless people she interviewed, for instance, or how she felt to be living in a suburban developing house and delivering morphine to her dying mother at 19.  Yes, it's true that you can get a glimpse of this through some of the characters in her semi-autobiographical novels, but it sure would be nice to hear Quindlen speak from the first person about some of these issues.<br />If this is all Quindlen is willing to share with us, we might have been better off with just a collection of her columns. The content would be more interesting, and we wouldn't be left with that unsatisfied feeling of knowing that there might (or might not!) be more to be said.	2003-01-30
US	43208742	R1GZY1BRHA8C5I	0609804618	852111366	Our Dumb Century: The Onion Presents 100 Years of Headlines from America's Finest News Source	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious!	The Onion has made an art out of the one-liner headline, and now it reaches back into the past to spoof a century's worth of political and historical fact.  A few border on poor taste (the Holocaust and the Hindenburg explosion are used as material), but it's standard Onion fare, and if you're comfortable with the tabloid this book won't bother you, either.  My favorite is the headline that reads \\"Jitterbugging Injuries Today\\" (1943), and lists Louis Jordan (fatal) and the entire class of Bedford Falls (drowned).	2003-01-28
US	43208742	R3I6YDY392RFVL	1565631730	760493869	Morning and Evening, NIV version	Books	5	84	86	N	N	A classic made accessible...	Charles Spurgeon is one of those brilliant Christian writers who I've just discovered as a new convert, but others have treasured for years. After my pastor quoted him for the third time in a homily, I decided I needed to learn more. And then I received this wonderful devotional for Christmas--perfect timing!<br />This is an version of Spurgeon's classic daily devotional, which has been updated using the New Internation Version of the Bible as a source for the scripture verses. Spurgeon's writing has also been revised somewhat to tranlate some of the archaic expressions into phrasing that will make sense to modern readers.<br />The text still retains a turn-of-the-century feel, but the words are no longer a barrier to understanding.<br />There are meditations for each morning and evening. They are full of wisdom and comfort, and I am amazed at how much richness Spurgeon is able to draw from even the shortest bits of text, &quot;mighty to save&quot;, &quot;He humbled Himself&quot;, etc. This gives readers a renewed appreciation for the value of each and every word in Scripture.<br />Helpful indexes make the book useful as a reference when readers need help or inspiration on a particular topic. This is a book that will be used long after the original devotions have been enjoyed on a daily basis.	2003-01-28
US	43208742	RFFVM7S76EU88	0452283442	53203756	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action (Darwin Awards (Plume Books))	Books	1	13	35	N	N	Nothing to see here.	There's no way around it; this book presents the deaths of real people as entertainment. As other readers have noted, many of these stories just seem tragic, and the idea of millions of readers getting a good laugh out of the death of someone's son, someone's sister, somone's father, is disturbing.<br />Second, the name \\"Darwin\\" Awards is catchy but a misnomer, and a bad one.  A better name would be \\"social Darwinism\\", and even that is really a misuse of Darwin's name. Along with the phrase 'survival of the fittest', it has done a great deal to mislead people as to the meaning of evolution.<br />You'd be better off watching reruns of \\"Jackass\\" than spending money on this book; at least everyone on that show survives.	2003-01-28
US	43208742	R2G713DO13UZJE	0310219264	516008079	Becoming Soul Mates	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Christian Newlyweds: a devotional you'll have time to read!	The pastor who performed our ceremony gave us this book as a wedding gift, and has been a real blessing to us. Newlyweds often face so much change and upheaval that it may be hard to find time to work on the marriage. This book presents a year's worth of content, arranged by topic and meant to be read once a week. The chapters are brief but engaging, and each provides with discussion questions, a verse from scripture, and a story from a couple that relates to the theme. Once readers have finished talking about the content, they are encouraged to think about the week ahead and make plans to help each other in concrete ways.<br />We've found it to be a nice follow-up to our pre-marital counseling; this book provides on-going discussion and strategies for honoring and loving your spouse.<br />Note: this book assumes a Christian audience. While the discussions would be helpful for any couple, non-Christian readers should be aware of this orientation before buying the book.	2003-01-27
US	43208742	R30B1LW34LA8UB	1889392138	287513911	Bridal Bargains: Secrets to Throwing a Fantastic Wedding on a Realistic Budget	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Don't buy a dress without reading this book first!	Planning a wedding is a little bit like buying a car; most of us are prepared to lay down thousands of dollars for options and features we like but don't fully understand. It's partly an emotional decision, partly a practical one, partly financial. Tradition plays a role, and so does the desire to have the very latest thing. It's something that (most of us, anyway) hope to do only once. And, much like the auto industry, shady dealers abound, ready to play on your emotions and lack of knowledge.<br />This book is filled with carefully researched information about the entire process of working with vendors while planning your wedding. It is not a wedding planning book; look elsewhere for timetables, to-do lists and ceremony vows. But it will give you lots of options on how to save money on the big ticket items: the dress, the venues, the rings, the flowers, the transportation, the catering, and more. There are also stories and tips from real brides in each section. The information on the apparel industry is particularly helpful; read this section before you buy a dress!<br />It gives websites and phone numbers to resources you won't be able to find elsewhere (I used this book to find ... a bricks and mortar store in NYC that sells bridesmaid gowns over the internet--saved me [money] per dress over the price at a traditional bridal shop). While it does take a skeptical approach to the wedding industry, which some reviewers here have objected to, it gives credit where credit is due, helping you find honest vendors you can trust. Another plus, the tips and ideas here will work no matter what kind of style of wedding you're planning or budget you are working with.<br />You wouldn't buy a used car without consulting Consumer Reports, Edmundson's or the Kelly Blue book; don't plan a wedding without this one!	2003-01-12
US	43208742	R11P21L7V4UB4Z	048621446X	19716436	The Wonder Clock: Or, Four & Twenty Marvelous Tales, Being One for Each Hour of the Day	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A masterpiece of storytelling and illustration:	This book has been in my family for four generations, the 1912 edition having been given to my father by his grandmother in 1948.<br />The premise of the story is given in the introduction; the narrator happens upon a marvelous clock in Father Time's attic, which strikes the hour with songs and puppet dances. Twenty-four stories follow, one for each hour of the day. Each story begins with a verse that corresponds to the hour of the day: lighting the fire, preparing breakfast, sending the children to school, making the noonday meal, milking, tea, bedtime. The verses alone are fascinating, as they bring to life the househould routines of a very different era.<br />The stories are illustrated with Howard Pyle's remarkable drawings. Each tale has a frontispiece for the title, and the beginning of the text and each picture caption is heralded with a large ornmental letter like those in illuminated manuscripts. The illustrations are gorgeous. Pyle was fond of capturing scenes of nobility and royal splendour, pastoral life, and witchcraft. Some are stylized portraits of princesses in exquisite gowns and classic poses, while others demonstrate Pyle's gift for caricature and expression.<br />The stories themselves are wonderful, full of heroes and heroines, bravery, beauty, wits and trickery. Although there are allusions to mystic and Christian themes, and to folklore and fables, most of the stories will be unfamiliar and fresh to modern readers. The langauge is rich with metaphor, droll imagery, and dialogue that is made to be read aloud. As with Aesop's fables, the stories are meant to instruct, but the morals take a back seat to the storytelling, at least until the conclusion of each tale, and a great deal is left up to the reader to interpret.<br />This was my favorite book as a child, and I still turn to it on sleepless nights. But our beloved family heirloom is growing very delicate, so I am very glad that the book is still in print. I hope to share it with my own children someday.ildren someday.	2003-01-12
US	43208742	R1S9568WA8XQ18	068481465X	563982708	Home Comforts: The Art and Science of Keeping House	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The M.F.K. Fischer of home economics	While this book is fascinating for the sheer volume of information (well researched and well-written) contained between its two covers, I find the author's introduction to be equally interesting.  Although Mendelson's approach has much more instruction and much less narrative than M.F.K. Fischer,  the authors share an ability to bring out the hidden yearnings and prejudices  that are entwined with food and shelter, those two most basic of needs. Both write about the effects that their grandmothers and first marriages had upon their orientation towards their subject.  And both impress upon the reader the importance of giving thought to the task of keeping house and keeping fed, no matter what your circumstances.<br />I'm sure that I'll keep this book forever as a reference work. It is tremendously satisfying to have a source I trust to resolve, once and for all, the vacuum first or dust first question. The illustrations by Henry Bates are exquisite and will keep the book from seeming dated for a long, long time.<br />But most of all, just as I'll never look at an oyster the same way after reading Fischer, making a bed will never again be just another bit of drudgery after reading Mendelson.  I'm inspired to give this area of my life more thought and attention than ever before. Housework may sometimes be annoying, but it will never again be meaningless.	2002-12-19
US	43208742	R2563PQ3ROQQ61	1881273156	277335936	The Five Love Languages: How to Express Heartfelt Commitment to Your Mate	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book needs a better metaphor!	Chapman's book was recommended to me by both newlyweds and a couple who has been together for over 20 years. My husband and I took it along with us on our honeymoon and have already started recommending it to others.<br />The book's great asset is that it encourages you to examine the ways that you show affection and the ways that you expect to receive it. The latter has been the cause of many a misunderstanding in our relationship; we noticed an immediate improvement once we started taking note of these hidden assumptions. The exercises give you a concrete way to continue to show love to your spouse/partner, that has its own rewards built in. Because we've found this  to be so valuable, I give this book five stars.<br />The weaknesses? Chapman's metaphors are clunky (while the concept of a 'love tank' is useful, even the couples I know who love this book cringe whenever they find it necessary to say, &quot;Honey, how full is your love tank today?&quot;).  His assertion that there are no more than five love langauges is also adamant but not well-supported.<br />Despite these minor weaknesses, the message and method are so helpful that I would (and do) recommend this to anyone who wants to have a better relationship with his or her partner.	2002-11-11
US	43208742	R3AXKRP9CU9B2L	0805056491	787839348	Organizing From the Inside Out	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Results that stay with you!	Getting organized is easy. STAYING organized is difficult. This book will help you with the latter.  Once I understood what was causing my disorganization problems, it was much easier to solve them.  Morgenstern is the only professional organizer I know to address three very different causes of disorganization, technical errors, psychological obstacles, and external realities.  Without addressing all three, it can be very difficult to _stay_ organized. It helps that Morgenstern's writing style is clear and to the point,with numerous examples to illustrate the important concepts.<br />A nice surprise; I couldn't believe how FUN it was to apply Morgenstern's principles to my messy apartment, or how _proud_ I was of the solutions I came up with to solve them: my beloved coat hooks in the foyer and kitchen for example. Two years later, and I'm still organized, and still deriving pleasure from the decisions I made when I orginally read the book.	2001-09-19
