US	43220398	R3MCRQ83EV3STA	1401201180	617577285	The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Vol. 2	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Even Better than Volume 1!	Its advisable to pick up the first volume before getting this one, which in my oppinion is superior (and that's saying a lot) <br />The main story is basially about an Alien invasion, which the League has to stop. Unlike the first volume there are major shake-ups and ramifications and even one betrayal. The story is witty, sexy, action-packed and intelligient. Alan Moore proves once again that he is a master of the artform. <br />If you are not already familiar with it, the League of Extraordinary Gentlmen is Moore's attempt to put together characters from various classic novels as if they lived in the same world or \\"universe\\". This concept is amazingly simple and its a surprise that no one had thought of it before. It had aparently been brewing in Moore's mind for a long time since he mentioned it as an absurd concept in his introduction to the collection of his very first Swamp Thing stories. He was commenting on the comic book convention of shared universes which incorproate vastly different characters in teh same world. Interesting that years later he actually accomplished it with characters from these literary masaterpieces. <br />The discription abobe states that the book contains a short story in the back, which is not exactly true. Its more of a mock travel almanac written several decades after the events of the main story. The almanac contains a discription of the world in which the League operates, incorporating elements of classical lititurature, pop culture, myth and fantasy. In addition to the main characters based on the novels The Invisible Man, Dracula, Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde, 2,000 Leagues Under the Sea and the Allan Quartermain books, this volume also touches on elements from Gullivar's Travels, The Island of Dr Moreau, Conan the Barbarian, the Elric novels, the Beatles' Yellow Submarine, Gabrel Garcia Marquez's 100 Years of Solitude, the Creature from the Black Lagoon, Robinson Cruso and many others which I can't recall right now or didn't understand the references to. <br />He also provides an interesting and tragic back story to Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass, which I thought was really clever. <br />This book, and its previous volume, will be good to go back to in a few years when I've read a few more of the classic sources. Its not essential to have read them, but it does help you to appreciate it more. And then I may go back to it a few years after that because it will take years to cover all the ground that is touched on in these two volumes. It shows just how well-read a person Alan Moore is also. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-25
US	43220398	R3VPHHAWQ262FD	1401200281	518583766	Epicurus: The Sage	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Intelligent Comedy	I respectfully disagree with the previous reviewer's statement that no previous knowledge of Greek history is needed. I am by no means an expert in Greek history, but I know a few things from high school, watching documentaries, visiting museums and historical stories and movies. The first two stories in this volume are based on pretty well known Greek myths but the second two are more obscure, so I couldn't get into them very much. The plot does take a while to get going but I think that is necessary because of the story's philosophical theme. Of course, its not acurate according to history, its a satire, but I don't think most of it can be proven wrong either. Its very funny and very daring because this type of thing can lose readers pretty quickly. Even though there was a lot I didn't understand, this book is still a good purchase. I'll put it on the shelf for a couple of years and come back to it by which time I'll probably have learned more about Greek history so that I can understand the subtlties (and there are a lot of them). <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-17
US	43220398	RXF0BXTD3IOIQ	1563899930	241513013	Green Lantern: Will World	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Excellent art but poorly executed story	I so wanted Green Lantern to have a good original graphic novel. Batman has several, Captain Marvel has one, Enemy Ace has one, Wonder Woman has one or two, but not Green Lantern. The other graphic novel I read, Fear Itself, was probably of even poorer quality. <br />The three stars above are mainly for the artwork which is simply stunning. Its so detailed and you notice new things about it every time you look through it. Seth Fisher is also given a lot of wierd concepts to visualise and he does it brilliantly. <br />The story, on the other hand, is the problem, partly because of the way its structured. You have to read about 80 pages into the 96-page graphic novel before it tells you exactly what is going on. You can keep a reader's attention for, say 10 or 20 pages, but 80 is going too far. By the time you come to the end of the story, you think, hey, this is a pretty interesting idea, why didn't he explain it in the beginning? Then maybe I would have appreciated the plot more! <br />The story begins with Hal Jordan lost with amnesia in a strange world. He meets strange people and is looking for some mysterious character but doesn't know why. Its hard for the reader to care about this character when we don't know its significance or even why Hal is looking for it. <br />The dialogue is also lacking, which is a shame because JM DeMatties is a master of humerous dialogue as you can tell from reading his Justice League International stories. Here it just comes off sounding uninteresting, like he's trying too hard to be funny. <br />Really is a shame, because this is one of the few times we've seen Hal Jordan on a solo adventure since Emerald Twighlight. Oh well, it seems he is being brought back to the DC Universe as a GL so maybe there is some light on the horizon. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-08-13
US	43220398	R30PV3X93SRVP1	0785111875	504091034	Marvel Masterworks: Silver Surfer Vol. 1 (Reprints Silver Surfer 1-6)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Issue number 3 should not be missed!	The reason I give this four stars, not five, is because I didn't like the first two issues collected very much. They are OK, but the series really gets going with issue 3, in which he battles Miphisto for the first time and which is one of the greatest Marvel comics ever! I didn't really care much for Silver Surfer before reading this issue, which captures his unique personality, nobility and charm extremely well. I read the issue without any prior knowledge that issue 3 was regarded as a classic so there was no preconceived notions on my part. I liked it based on its merit alone. Later, I found out that the story is highly regarded in many circules and all I can say is that it truly deserves to be called a classic. Issues four and onwards maintain a high quality also, although not as good as the flawless issue 3. And Buscema's art is brilliant. As much as I like Kirby, he draws the Silver Surfer much, much better. This is even better than his early Conan work, in which he kind of drew Conan looking a bit too weak for my tastes. And I never really held Stan Lee in such high regard before reading the Masterworks volumes. I always thought he was just a self-promoter but his work stands well on its own. The fact that he and Kirby created so many classic characters is testament to his talent as a writer/creator.	2004-06-18
US	43220398	RMKE8I9C3YMHF	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	25	33	N	N	My Harry Potter Theory	I've been trying to figure out what made this series so popular and this is what I came up with.<br />Don't get me wrong, the Harry Potter books aren't bad and I like the idea of making the books progressively more mature. And the fact that its over-rated goes without saying. Of course its over-rated. Anything this big that doesn't fundamentally change life as we know it is over-rated.<br />As a children's book its probably brilliant and I won't dispute that...however, I think that the fact that so many adults have got into it is misleading. Reading these reviews (and many others) one would get the impression that the books with imigination the likes of which has never been seen before...and that's simply not true.<br />I think that the reason one would get this impression is because most of the readers who buy the hype associated with any mainstream book are mainstream readers. So to the likes of those who spend most of their time reading books by writers like Danielle Steele and Tom Clancy any writer with a half decent sense of imagination is something new to them (I'm talking about imagination in the fantastical sense here...I'm not suggesting that writing based on reality is not imaginative...just a divfferent type of imagination). But for those of us who's reading is dominated by stories set in magical realms and universes, there isn't much in Harry Potter that is new.<br />In fact, Harry Potter is very much a recycling of many cliches associated with magic rather than an innovative exploration of the theme. For example, the concepts that magic users wear Wizard and witche's hats and use wants and broomsticks are old and tired. Its perfect for children, because that's what they probably expect, but not for adults. There is nothing new in stones of power, mirrors reflecting other dimensions, flying vehicles and so on.<br />So basically, if most of your reading is fantasy, you will probably be less than throroughly impressed with this book. However, if these themes are relatively new to you, you'll probably find it nothing less than an amazing feat of imagination and you'll rave about it endlessly...es are relatively new to you, you'll probably find it nothing less than an amazing feat of imagination and you'll rave about it endlessly...	2003-10-03
US	43220398	RJNEDI7P1XNGY	1563895102	86737934	Jack Kirby's The Forever People	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Its Kirby. What else is there to say?	Quite a lot actually. This is probably the least well known of Kirby's Fourth World. Still very good stuff. I liked the whole Fourth World saga except for the first half of Mister Miracle. Good story, good art. Its a wonder he managed to write and draw so much so fast without a noticable dip in quality. The stories are very plot-driven, not as much character development as some of his other work, but what plots! And of course, many new Kirby characters are introduced. A must have for any Kirby fan!	2003-09-11
US	43220398	R2EKXAEQ8LM5RS	1560974257	331335459	Wallace Wood's Cannon	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fun, trashy and politically incorrect masterpiece	I have mixed feeings about this. I don't want to like it, but I do! Canon doesn't appeal to your intellectual side and doesn't pretend to. Women are shown in the nude for no aparent good reason, the politics makes no sense and, as the introduction states, Peter Canon as a character never develops much throughout the strip. It also ends rather abruptly as if someone pulled the plug on it and Wood was forced to bring it to a close prematurely. There are many sub-plots which are left dangling.<BR>Basically Canon is a James Bond-type character, only much less glamerous and more mentally screwed up. He gets involved in fighting the communists from China and Russia and in fictional Middle East politics. Anyone who  knows anything about history can tell you that the politics is basically bull, but you just have to go along with it. Its a plot driven rather than a character driven story and Wood does surprise with some very unexpected plot twists. The book is about 130 pages long but you'll probably find its best taken in small doses of around 15 pages.<BR>No complaints on the art front. If you like old school comic art, this is for you. He draws amazing scenes, usually in small panels, and gets in a lot of detail.	2003-09-02
US	43220398	RJDMQLVT41VBK	1563898683	471540719	Batman: Dark Victory	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Great art, great story, what else do you want?	A sequel that delivers for a change! The art is just fantastic. Tim Sale is one of the few artists with whom the &quot;less is more&quot; school of art actually works. A lot of empty spaces and exaggerated grotesque characters give the story its mood, which is admittedly influenced by Frank Miller's Year One. Jeph Leob also isn't afraid to give Sale the use of full and two-page spreads for dramatic effect. Leob is one of the few writers who actually seems to tailor his writing style to fit the artist he is working with. Its totally different here from the style he uses with Ed McGuinness on Superman and with Jim Lee on Batman: Hush. One more thing: If you are a Catwoman fan, you'll like this.<BR>l	2003-09-02
US	43220398	R113DAFOPVH51W	0451163966	808414399	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest	Books	4	0	6	N	N	Good, but movie was better	This book is one of the few cases where the much  more commercial movie is actually better than the book! But don't get me wrong, because the book is very good too! Like the movie, its about a man who pretends to be crazy in order to escape a jail sentence but instead of focusing on him, the book focuses more on the character of the Native American, his fellow in-mate. It gives insights into the character's past that the movie tends to ignore and this makes the ending of the story make more sense.<br />a	2003-09-02
US	43220398	R1DTMR1RO2CLVW	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the Greatest Books of the 20th Century	I was supposed to read One Hundred Years for a class back  in high school but I dropped the class and the book was left unread for years. I went back to it years later when I needed something to read. It actually took me two attempts to read it because the first chapter doesn't exactly draw you in.<BR>But I'm glad I gave it a second try because its one of the best books I ever read, folling only to Lord of the Rings, 1984 and perhaps The Unbearable Lightness of Being.<BR>One of the things I like about  this book is that it doesn't seem to have an easily identifiable main character (which is similar to many of my favourite novels, for example Lord of the Rings and Isaac Asimov's Foundation novels). In other words its more plot than character driven. Its like the family itself is the main character in this one hundred year old story. Also like the two aforementioned novels there are so many characters sometiems its hard to keep track, but its worth it. I like the way magic is referred to in such a matter-of-fact way.<BR>The structure of the book is also different; for me at least the climax seems to be somewhere in the middle of the book and from there the story seems to wind down.	2003-08-15
US	43220398	R2XPCU7922Q3J8	0061020680	116769240	Mort	Books	4	0	0	N	N	BETTER THAN MOST	Terry Pratchett's Discworld series tend to be about the same level of quality because he follows the same formula throughout (at least as far as the first eight books are concerned, which I have read). This one though is slightly better than most. I think the main character Mort should make return appearances in future books and to my knowledge he hasn't. <BR>Basically Mort becomes Death's apprentice. I don't want to say anymore but I have a feeling that this part of the series contributes significantly to Death's ongoing stories as the most recurring character in teh Discworld series. If you want to get into Discworld but, for some reason don't want to start at the very beginning, this is a good sampler.	2003-08-05
US	43220398	R2ZA4065JZXWX1	1563899590	156261092	JSA: Fair Play - Book 4 (JSA (Justice Society of America) (Graphic Novels))	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fair Play More Than Fair!	JSA Fair Play maintains the high standards of the previous three collections in the series. In my oppionion its better than the last two but not quite as good as the first. This trade resolves, at least for now, the issue of Black Adam, a former villain, being on the team. It also features the introduction of a major new villain (Roulette), the deaths of one or two minor DC characters, a new JSA member and a new JSA chairman.<br />Roulette runs a modern-day version of a Roman gladiator arena in which superheroes are forced to kill each othher for the plesure of paying customers (mainly supervillains). JSA members are placed in difficult circumstances and I must commend Johnss on thinking up some truly original ways of getting them out.<br />The relationships between Star and JJ Thunder is also developed here but much more central to the story is Hawkman and Hawkgirl's relationship, which also goes through some changes.<br />My only complaint is that didn't like the way that Batman was handled in this book. Just like James Robinson's handling of him in Starman, Batman comes off as immature, which is inconsistent of his handling in other comics such as JLA where he is a bad {guy}. Batman is protective of his city and has trouble letting people get close to him, but he has many times in the past worked perfectly well with other characters and teams. The Batman here is closer to the Batman we saw in Giffen's Justice League, which was more or less a parady of superhero teams and was done for laughs more than anything else. It short: it worked there, but it doesn't work here. Also, his appearance doesn't seem necessary with him doing very little against that issue's main antagonist. I got to admit that it does answer the question of what Batman's oppinion is of the new JSA being based in Gotham, which I myself have been wondering, but so far at least, nothing significant has come of it.<br />I liked Captain Marvel's appearance much better although he didn't seem as innocent as he did in the past. Got to admit though that I haven't followed his adventures in years and it may be that he was developed this way.	2003-08-04
US	43220398	RPQAV1RRDTMID	1563898527	169104785	Batgirl Vol. 2: A Knight Alone	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Puckett Tops Himself	I've been reading the name Kelly Pucket since he used to answer various DC letter columns. The first time I saw his name credited as a writer was towards the end of the last Green Arrow series. I approached his work with skepticism, but his writing proved more than adequate.<br />I approached the first Batgirl trade Silent Running with even more skepticism because I had read so many bad things about the series, mostly from the DC Commics message boarders. I was pleasantly surprised when I actually read the book that it was much better than I was led to believe. And in this second trade A Knight Alone, Puckett does even better. <br />Without giving anything away, I didn't like the way the last trade ended because it seemed like he took the easy way out after writing himself into a corner (this is regarding Batgirl's speach problems). But this trade proves that maybe I was wrong because rather than just wiping out her problem, her story is developed and now she has entirely new and more difficult issues to deal with.<br />The only thing I didn't like about this trade was the treatment of Cain, Batgirl's father. His portrayal here seems to turn him into a caricature of his former self. There seems little or no more menace about him anymore whereas previously he was portrayed as a very serious threat. This approach has ruined many characters in the past and I hope it doesn't happen here too.<br />The art is very suitable for the comic and Batgirl has one of the coolest costumes of any heroine in comics (even though it does cover her from head to toe!) I look forward to reading the third trade Death Wish soon.	2003-08-04
US	43220398	RFJVFR22ZR0RB	1563897237	359391223	Jack Kirby's Fourth World: Featuring: Mister Miracle	Books	4	2	2	N	N	FOUR PART SERIES ENDS ON A HIGH NOTE	This is the final part of a four-part series of black and white trades collecting Jack Kirby's New Gods, Forever People and Mister Miracle. The three titles, which Kirby was writing, drawing and editing himself, where meant to be a grand space opera concluding with a great showdown between Orion and and his father Darkseid. But after the first two series were cancelled by DC, only Mister Miracle was left and the story was simplified so that it focused more on Mister Miracle's life on earth. This trade collects the second half of the Mister Miracle title which Kirby did. Dispite a simpler story, I think its better that the Mister Miracle trade but not as good as the Forever People and New Gods, which is clearly the best.<br />Some new villains are introduceed and Darkseid and his gang make an appearance, but clearly the most important part is the blossoming of the relationship between Big Barda  and Mister Miracle. It seems that Kirby was planning to develop this relationship slowly but wasn't given enough time. Still, it wasn't a bad issue at all.	2003-08-04
US	43220398	R2HNPD98P1043B	1563896648	457621570	Tom Strong - Book 01	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Great Idea But Only Average Execution	Tom Strong is a tip of the hat to many classic comic book heroes and cliches. Tom Strong is based on Doc Savage, Solomon is based on the intelligent apes that populate the DC Universe, Tom's wife is like a cross between Wonder Woman and Storm of the X-men and so on. Having said that, there is a lot of originality in the book too. Without giving anything away, there are at least two characters in this book that are truly unique. I can't think of any other like them. I think all the characters in it are interesting but I don't think the story is as well executed as it could be. It starts off well but the collection seems to become less fun as you reach the end, although its never bad. Its not the best of Moore's ABC line (according to my experience that is A League of Extraordinary Gentlemen) and its no where near his classic works, but its worth checking out if you are a fan. I will buy the next collection, but I don't have very high hopes for it.	2003-05-06
US	43220398	R1L51HGRH53S33	034538475X	221203857	The Tale of the Body Thief (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Take a bite, you may enjoy it!	This is the best novel in the Vampire Chronicles so far. As Lestat himself states in the opening, you don't have to have read the previous three novels to understand this one... but it helps.<BR>Although its the best story, I don't think it is necessarily the best introduction to the character of Lestat. That would be the first book, Interview With A Vampire, even though it is told from the fledgling vampire Louis's somewhat distorted eyes. <BR>As for Tale of the Body Thief, it chronicles Lestat's adventures as a human being. He trades his body with human and discovers the pleasures and pains of mortality. It has some excellent scenes including Lestate having sex with women, almost having sex with a man, tasting his first meals in centuries and seeing sunglight again through mortal eyes.<BR>The book also has a shock ending, which is important for some of Anne Rice's future tales.<br />I have to add that Tale of the Body Thief is far better than Queen of the Damned, which seemed to lose its way half way through. Its better structured, faster paces and frankly more realistic. I know that may sound like a strange term to use in relation to a vampire tale, but it just seems that the antagonist in Body Thief has a much more realistic motive than the anagonist in Queen of the Damned. They are both flawed characters, as is Lestat, but at least the Body Thief anagonist is beleivable.	2002-11-29
US	43220398	R2YQ5IXNUGQ5V8	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	5	105	117	N	N	A VERY IMPORTANT WORK AND FUN TO READ TOO!!!	You can't talk about the DC Universe with anyone without referring to post-Crisis and pre-Crisis events.For these reasons alone, any DC Comics fan has to read the brilliant Crisis on Infinite Earths by Marv Wolfan and George Perez.  It is also unique in that it chronicles the deaths of several DC characters, most of whome have since remained dead. These include the deaths of Kara (the original Supergirl) and Barry Allen (the silver age Flash, who was the main Flash character for almost 30 years). These are some of the best deaths ever written in comics, especially the Flash's horific death against the story's antagonist the Anti-Monitor.<BR>The Crisis is a massive, ambitious project which DC undertook in 1985 to simplify the DC Multiverse and turn it into a universe. The multiverse was too confusing with different versions of the same characters living in different parralel universes. The end result wasa single coherent universe in which different universes were merged into one. So it is obviously a very important story. <BR>But that's not all because it also holds its own as a story. The Monitor is in a mission to save the positive universe from being devoured by the negative universe, ruled by the Anti-monitor. To do this, he gathers key heroes and villains from both the positive nad negative unverses to stop this.<BR>The end result, as the advertisements of the time said, world lived, world died, but the unverse was never hte same again.<BR>Like, say Lord of the Rings, Crisis has a main antagonist but does not seem to have a main character. In the beginning it seems that perhaps the Monitor and his helper the Harbinger are the main characters but at some points the focus shifts on other characters. There are literally hundreds of characters making appearances in this story and this is one of the things I like about it. In addition to the superheroes you would expect to see, characters like Swamp Thing, John Constantine, Jonah Hex, The Demon, Sgt Rock, Enemy Ace,Vandal Savage, Sam Simeon, Tomahawk, Johnny Double and others make appearances.<BR>Although there are dozens of comics that crossover with the main Crisis story, its not necessary to read all of them to get the main storyline, which is good.<BR>Unfortunately it seems that Crisi opened a Pandora's Box of crossover events, which now seem to be an almost annual occurance. Some have been good, such as Legends and Zero Hour, but others we could have done without (The Final Night for example).<BR>A final note on the art. It is simply brilliant. Very few artists could have pulled this story off and I can't think ofanyone better than Perez. He is so good at drawing dozens of characters in single panels. He has an average about 10 or 11 panels on every page which makes for good storytelling, ideal for such a complex tale. In one page I counted 18 panels!!!<BR>I bought the hardcover edition of this book... and I can tell you it was worth every cent. Its such a complex story that you can read it again every six months or a year and it still seems fresh because there is no way you can possibly remember all its intracacies. For me its best on the third reading.<BR>There is also a brilliant cover by Alex Ross. Sometimes I like to just take out the book and pass time just by looking at the cover and trying to identify as many characters as I can.	2002-11-29
US	43220398	R29OVCH2KUPI41	1563891034	21823006	Lobo's Back's Back!	Books	5	3	3	N	N	GREATEST LOBO STORY EVER	I loved the original Lobo miniseries but this one was even better. This story is classic. In it Lobo dies while on a bounty hunting job and goes to heaven, hell and is eventually reincarnated. Its got some of the funniest lines I've eve read in comics. Bisley's art is also fantastic. The last issue was drawn by another artist who is also very good. Appearances are made by The Demon, Death, God and others. Its such a bizarre series, even among Lobo stories. If you like dark humour, get this. Its an absolute must-have!!!	2002-11-18
US	43220398	RP0BUIPEETPQ	1563892227	442559220	Green Lantern: A New Dawn	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Rayner Proves a Success	For me Hal Jordan will always be the ultimate Green Lantern, but Rayner fills his shoes nicely. Ron Marz follows his brilliant Emerald Twilight story with some surprisingly strong plots. This collection introduces us to Raynor's world. He is a struggling artist with a wild imagination, which is perfect for the character of Green Lanter. Marz also gives artist Daryl Bank some difficult pieces to draw. Instead of using simple baseball bats like Jordan was prone to doing, Raynor conjures up gladiators, robots nad other more imaginative creations through his power ring.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R30MJ5GO165GEV	1563897059	284514717	Batgirl, Vol 1:  Silent Running	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Surprisingly Good Start	I bought this book without high expectations. I had heard very bad things about the series but was pleasantly surprised by this decent first collection. It reveals a little about the new Batgirl's past and a bit about her current relationship with Batman through conflicts with various antagonists.<br />She is an interesting character, but I fear that developments towards the end of this series is going to change that. Batgirl was a mute because her father never taught her to speak, instead concentrating all her training on combat and related skills. In his collection she meets someone who helps her to understand words. This may ruin things in the future. Instead of letter her learn to speak over a period of time, the writers are going for a shortcut. Its much more difficult to write characters who don't speak but this is part of what makes her interesting.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R9ZDKZDXPYQCF	1563897989	828813323	History of the DC Universe	Books	5	24	24	N	N	ABSOLUTELY FANTASTIC	This story was written shortly after the Crisis on Infinite Earths and it is sort of a sequel to that groundbreaking tale. Its told in prose and details the entire history of the DCU universe from its birth until its persent. It covers almost everything you can think of including ancient characters such as Destiny (Sandman's brother), Western characters such as Jonah Hex, War comics characters such as Sgt Rock and the superheroes of the 40s. George Perez's artwork is stunning and the new cover by Alex Ross is also excellent. Unfortunately I have the older two-part miniseries minus the beautiful Ross cover so I envy you if haven't already got it.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R3MOZXT1FNY968	1563891018	501118476	Batman: Venom	Books	5	3	7	N	N	NICE PRELUDE TO KNIGHTFALL	This series is the best story arc that I have read from thethe Legends of the Dark Knight series. It also introduces the venom drug, which Bane would later use in his successful attempt to break the Batman.<BR>But this is a good story in itself. In it Batman becomes adicted to the same drug and struggles to overcome the addiction.<BR>Dennis O'Neil proves he is still one of the greatest writers ever to work on Batman and the artwork is also great.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	REF68C31YUBO2	1563898012	773518293	Batman & Huntress: A Cry for Blood	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good Story, Important Batman Developments	I enjoyed Cry For Blood. Its a nice little tale, even though Rucka is usually capable of much better. The simple artwork suited the Godfather-like theme of the story which revealse a little more about the Huntress's crime family background. It makes you care a little more for Huntress and makes you undertsand her motivations better.<BR>The Question makes an appearance but his motivation for helping Huntress seems a little vague. Still, the two characters work together very well.<BR>If you are a Batman or Huntress fan, this collection is good to have because it includes developments which have changed the relationship between Huntress and Batman, which were previously improving. It also reveals some of the flaws in Batman's ideology, from the point of view of another person, Huntress.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R3OMVJSUK0RMWP	1563891646	712301001	Green Lantern: Emerald Twilight	Books	5	5	7	N	N	BEST GREEN LANTERN STORY EVER!!	Ironically, the best Green Lantern story I ever read was also a kind of farewell to the greatest Green Lantern character ever. This is the end of Hal Jordan as a Green Lantern and it couldn't have been told any better.<BR>Although I disagree with some of what has been done with the character since, especially making him the new Spectre, there is no denying the power of this story. After losing virtually everyone he cares for after Coast City was destroyed by the Eradicator during the Reign of the Supermen storyline, Jordan decides that he can no longer respect the boundaries that the Guardians have placed. He decides to bring the city back. After all, he has the power to do it. I won't give away too much, but what results is Hal Jordan's fall from grace. We say farewell to some much loved characters and it all sets the stage for the new Kyle Rayner Green Lantern era. Hal Jordan is stil my favourite Green Lantern but they could have done much worse than Rayner who is a good character in his own right. Still it was worth it just to have this story which is, I repeat, the greatest Green Lantern story ever!!!.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R2AUKSS0ZIBDCB	0930289404	283893497	Justice League: A New Beginning	Books	5	17	18	N	N	BRILLIANT! NO OTHER WORD CAN DESCRIBE IT	This collection collects some of my favourite comics. Its a fresh take on what was starting to become tired and cliched. This is still my favourite version of the Justice League. These first issues introduce the humerous Justice League created by Kieth Giffen and JM DeMaties. The stories in this collection still have a somewhat serious tone when compared to the later stories but they are still hillarious. The first few issues of JL include an absolute classic showdown between Guy Garder and Batman (which was unfortunately written out of continuity by Zero Hour), Dr Fate the way he is supposed to be written and an excellent battle against the Grey Man, who was never written better. The lineup at the time also included Black Canary, Martian Manhunter, Blue Beetle and Captain Marvel. Although never officially a leaguer, Maxwell Lord is also a classic character.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R374X1PWNJ0JLP	1563891298	522937941	Superman: Time and Time Again	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Great Time-Travel Story	This was one of the first times that the post-crisis superman travelled through time, so it feels like a very fresh story. Among the periods he visits are the World War II and the far future where he walks through a museum of hte 20th Century. The JSA, The Demon, Booster Gold and some Legion of Superheroes characters are among those who make appearances.<BR>Great art from everyone, especially Dan Jurgens and Jerry Ordway.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R1N4VIX08F6QIE	1563896311	864852568	JLA: Earth 2 (JLA (DC Comics Unnumbered Paperback))	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Morrison's Best JLA Story	I like Morrison's run on the regular JLA title but I was never crazy about it. I thought that the writers that followed him generally did a better job than him. But this side project is one of the best JLA stories of recent years.<BR>It pits the JLA against their opposites form a universe where evil supervillains have the upper hand over the heroes. It introduces important characters who have since made interesting appearances in the regular Superman series.<BR>I also love the art which has a realistic carnoony feel to it, if you know what I mean.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R233DAJMMYT230	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Best Elseworlds EVER!!!!	Similar to what was done in Frank Miller's stunning Dark Knight Returns, Kingdom Come depicts a dark future for the DC Universe characters. Batman is crippled, Superman has retired, Green Arrow is an amputee and Captain Marvel seems to have gone nuts, etc.<BR>In addition to all their personal problems, the older generation of heroes now has to condend with a new, more violent breed of superhero which threatens the very people its supposed to protect.<BR>What follows is a clash of ideologies between the Superman group and the Batman group who can't agree how to handle the situation. This results in some very interesting alliances and battles. Without giving anything away, the story ends in a climactic showdown and an outcome that truly took me by surprise.<BR>Alex Ross's art is stunning and will have the hairs on your arms standing at some moments. Truly breathtaking artwork.	2002-11-18
US	43220398	R2SHP4HR1NJJNX	1563898020	583757422	Green Arrow: Quiver	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent DCU Debut for Smith!!!	Writer/Director Kevin Smith shows he really understands the major and even minor players in the DCU. He gets the characterisation right for every character he writes in this incredible 10-issue epic. Before reading the book I was hoping that Smith would stay away from the supernatural when reserecting Green Arrow, but I take it back now that I have actually read the book. He presents a very interesting way of bringing Oliver Queen back from the dead. He throws twists in there to throw you off track and then just when you think you know what is going on, he changes the story's direction. There are some really funny moments in the book, particularly when Batman, The Demon and the JLA appear. He pays hommage to many characters and creators from the past including Alan Moore's legendary Swamp Thing run.<BR>Without giving anything away, I was impressed with Smith's and the DC editorial board's decision not to make Green Arrow a nicer, more innocent character, thereby ignoring Mike Grell's contributions. It seemed for a moment that they were heading in that direction but by the end it became obvious that they weren't which is good.<BR>I was a little bit disappointed with the ending which I thought was too convenient and bland, but overall, its an excellent start to what will hopefully be an excellent ongoing series.	2002-10-13
US	43220398	R22U9RZ1Z68O8U	0785107916	504791017	Captain Marvel: First Contact	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good, But Not Up To David's Usual Standard	I bought this book because I missed Peter David's writing on Hulk, which was rudely cut short by bad editorial judgement. The writing here, however, falls far short of his work on Hulk. Its entertaining, but despite the acclaim it is getting I don't feel that it is going to be a classic in retrospect a few years from now.<BR>There are some genuinely funny moments though, but its not as hilarious as David's Hulk was. I still have hopes for the future though; one of the best thing's about David's writing is his ability to change the scenario of a title before it gets stale, so given a few more issues the title could have a completely different feel. I'll probably pick up the second collection to find out and hopefully I won't be disappointed this time.<br />The concept is Rick Jones and Genis, the son of the first Captain Marvel, are linked together. Similar to DC's Captain Marvel, they trade places at will. They are two different people however and can still converse with each other even when one is in control of his body. Hope that makes sense. Marlo makes an appearance in most issues, which is welcome. She is a great supporting character.<br />One thing I want to point out though. The characterisation of Rick Jones seems a little off. I know that Peter David wrote Rick for over ten years, but he seems to be trying too hard to give Rick a hip, slighly abnoxious attitude. This is exaserbated by Chriscross's artwork. He is a great artist and his facial expressions are excellent, but they make Rick Jones seem more like a smartass than he was in the past. I know that Rick Jones started off in the 1960s being an overconfident jerk, but his character has developed over the years. This trade seems to bring him back to square one, only with a 90s twist.	2002-10-12
US	43220398	R14LDJDPDJ37ZC	1563897784	534305824	Orion: The Gates of Apokolips	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Better Than Kirby?	Dare I say it? Walt Simonson writes and draws Jack Kirby's characters even better than the King himself. Now don't get me wrong, I like Kirby. I wrote a very positive review of the trades that collects the first half of his original New GOds series, but this is even better! In many ways it is a sequel to Kirby's work and also follows a similar style at some points. It is, however, much faster paced, and free of some of the out of date comic book conventions that were prevelant during Kirby's time. Simonson's art is also stunning ... for the most part. Ironically, the cover of the trade is one of the book's worst pieces of art so don't let that turn you off. The other covers, collected inside, are much better. I guess they weren't used because they were not as representative of the whole story.<BR>In this fantastic story Darkseid finally discovers the secret of the anti-life equation and goes about taking over earth. This is one of the paralels that this book has with KIrby's original New Gods, which also featured a Darkseid plot on earth. I totally disagree with one of the other reviewers who critisized the book for having a long fight scene. True, the fight scene took up a whole chapter, but it came at the end of a well written storyline. Taken on its own, it would be boring but as a whole it is a fitting climax to a well written, intellenget story.<BR>This book also features short Tales of the New Gods, which spotlight different New GOds characters. Sometimes it character development and at other times it gives us interesting glimpses into the origins of these classic characters.<BR>In fact, these short stories are even better than the main storyline. This is a brilliant story about ORion's birth and another about Granny Goodness's past. Guest artists on these short stories include FRank MIller, Jon Bogdanove and Klaus Janson.	2002-09-13
US	43220398	R3GNQ3TYQ0TW1	0785108033	317174256	Spider-Man's Tangled Web, Vol. 1	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Great, except for the first story	I would have given this book at least four stars if it didn't include Garth Ennis's three-part story The Thousand. It introduced a really silly villain who was supposed to bully Peter Parker as a kid. I hate it when characters who are supposedly part of the backstory come out of nowhere and I hate it even more when they are just silly. He had no motivation for wanting to kill Spiderman and take his place. The plot was just lame, which is a shame because Garth Ennis is one of the greatest comic writers ever. Having said that, John McCrea's art is brilliant! He uses a different style that I have never seen him use before. It relies less on shading and more on simple linework and colouring effects.<BR>Thankfully, it gets much better from here on. Greg Rucka of Detective Comics fame offers the best story of the collection with the simple yet effective Kingpin story Severence package. Its offers an interesting insight into the way the Kingpin runs his organisation and has one of the best portrayals of the character ever.<BR>Flowers for Rhino, based on the brilliant short story Flowers for Algernon, is one of the few instances that the Rhino is portrayed as a character you can feel for. Its a love story, believe it or not, in which the Rhino gains intelligence.<BR>This book collects the first few stories from Marvel's Tangled Web series, which is one of the best Spider-man books in a long time. The still going on and the stories are still excellent so you might want to search for individual issues if they are not reprinted in trade paperback form.	2002-07-28
US	43220398	R3HI962GFKFTBR	0919359132	2312944	Flight (Cerebus, Volume 7)	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	The Worst Cerebus to Date	This is the last Cerebus tale I have read and my least favourite to date. Its not bad, but its not of the same quality that I have come to expect from Dim Sim, who is one of the most under-rated creaters in comics. I liked the scenes with the roach, but the bits with Cerebus in it seem to go on forever. Unlike, say Jaka's Story, which is also quite drawn out, its just not that interesting. This instalment basically follows Cerebus's meeting with some kind of Ardvark ancestor who has acheived god-like status. It is also basically setting the scene for a confrontation between Cerebus and Cirin, who seems to be becoming the main antagonist in the series. I am not suggesting that you skip this book, however. It is, of course, an integral part of the overall storyline. Just don't expect too much from it.	2002-07-28
US	43220398	R205O60TCO94N9	0930289722	311099156	Why I Hate Saturn	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Hillarious!	I have never read a comic like this before. Most Vertigo books seem to have an Alan Moore feel to it, but this is completely different! Funny comics tend to be silly, surreal or corny, but this isn't! Its firmly grounded in the real world, despite its strange title, except for an unrealistic ending.<BR>The story follows a New York columnist's quest to find herself and her relationship with her sister. It doesn't sound like much, but trust me, you'll love it. Some parts of it actually had me laughing out lound, no easy feat.<br />I have liked his art for a long time, but this is my first exposure to Kyle Baker as a writer and I am impressed. There are no flashy fight scenes or splash pages or anything like that. Although the art is pleasant, the book is carried on the strength of the writing alone... no gimmicks whatsover.	2002-07-21
US	43220398	R1F0M0RBT1FIFH	1563893851	438539796	Jack Kirby's New Gods	Books	4	25	27	N	N	AN EXCELLENT AND VERY IMPORTANT WORK	The first time I read this book, I found it a bit boring. I'm not saying it was unreadable, but the style of writing is old-fashioned and Kirby uses many cliches and conventions that seem out of place today. But somehow, when I re-read it about a year later, I found that it is one of the best 70s comics I have ever read, on par with Thomas and Buscema's Conan, Wein and Wrightson's Swamp Thing, Howard the Duck, O'Niel and Adams' Batman and other classic stories of the period. I don't know how to explain it, but my oppinion of it changed drastically. With the exception of the story The Pact (also Kirby's favourite story) I found it much more entertaining the second time.<br />Anyway, New Gods is important to have if you are a DC fan simply for its historical importance. Here is where such classic characters as Darkseid, Orion, Desaad, Mister Miracle, Lightray, Highfather and dozens of others got their start. Kirby created New Genesis and Apokalips (no this is not a spelling mistake) as a complete world unto itself but tied to the DC Universe. Similer to JRR Tolkein's work, it has different races of inhabitants, each with its own physical and cultural characteristics and histories. Such a feat should not be underappreciated because it clearly took a lot of work on his part to create such a complete concept. It usually takes years and a variety of creators for comic myths to grow into what they are today (look at Superman and Batman for example) but Kirby did it virtually on his own and in a very short period of time. I think that the word \\"genius\\" is overused, but there is no other way to describe Kirby. He was a comic book genius.<br />His arwork, though dated, retains a unique charm and its easy to see how many current artists continue to be influenced by his work. The plots are also well-thought out, though weak at certain points. For example, I just don't buy how easily the humans that Orion saved join his cause. Most of them are one-dimentional characters anyway and their motive is extremely weak. Having said that, they are probably the only weak characters you will find in the entire book. The above example aside, Kirby has the ability to make throwaway characters very interesting. A good example is the issue where Orion and Lightray are trying to save a family abandoned at sea. While these characters never appear again to my knowledge, each has a well-defined personality and serve as metaphors for issues of the time (ie the Vietnam war and the peace movement). As mentioned above, The Pact is a brilliant story that should not be missed. In addition to telling the origins of Mister Miracle and Orion (they have been re-told many times since, but never this well), it also provides a rare glimpse into the nature of the Darkseid. It also makes you wonder how much of an influence it had on George Lucas's Star Wars, which followed these classic stories.<br />Ironically, although the decision to discontinue the series may have disapointed Kirby, it was, in retrospect, a good move by DC. Had Kirby been allowed to see it through to the end, Darkseid would probably have been killed by his son Orion in a Skywalker/Darth Vader like confrontation and DC and comic fandom would have been robbed of one of one of the greatest superstar villains. Desaad, one of comicdoms few true sadists, would probably also have been killed too, which also would have been a great loss. If this had happened we would have missed out on some great future stories such as Legends and countless others.<BR>For those of you who may not know, The New Gods was part of a trilogy that Kirby was working on in the 70s and the story is incomplete without Mister Miracle and The Forever People, also available in trade paperback form. After reading this, go on to Jack Kirby's Mister Miracle, then to Jack Kirby's Forever People and finally to Jack Kirby's Fourth World trade.<BR>And for the record, the Black and White format didn't hurt my enjoyment of the story in anyway because its not that important. The story and art are all there whether in colour or black and white and that's what really matters.	2002-07-05
US	43220398	R1UXFBPJ27HB64	1563896656	702953874	1: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Moore in Top Form!!!	Those who insist that Moore has lost it since the early 90s must read this (and From Hell). Its such a great idea and I can't believe that noone thought of it before. Of course, you need a really literate author to tell this story, one who is familiar with the classics, and Moore appears to fit the bill perfectly. <BR>There is Nemo, Jekyll and Hyde, the Invisible man, Sherlock Holmes and more! Even a cameo by a grown up Dodger from Oliver Twist! Don't worry thought, you don't have to have read all those books to understand the story and most of the characters are famous enough so you'll know who they are anyway. Basically its the Justice League set in the past and using these classic chaeracters. It drenched in science fiction so if you are a purist then this is not for you. It reminds me a little of Wild Wild West, which also features impossibly futuristic (if mechanical) technology set in the past. All the characters, except perhaps Hyde, are excellent, but my favourite character is the female lead Mina from Dracula.	2002-06-25
US	43220398	R12F16BICWVDTD	0785100466	409514768	Daredevil: The Man Without Fear	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the Best Marvel Comics Ever!	I have always been a DC fan first, but what's good is good and this is really good. They have to put this back in print because it is one of greatest comics Marvel ever published. It has a fast-paced cinematic style similar to the one Frank Miller used in Batman Year One and Ronin. I am not a big fan of John Romita Junior, but his style was perfect for this story. Its obvious that both Miller and Romita Jr worked very hard on this. Daredevil's origin has been told before but when you read this you don't feel like you are reading rehashed material. There are plenty of new plots and ideas to keep it interesting throughout. As usual, the character interplay between Matt Murdock and Electra is excellent and very foreboding since we already know what the future has in store for her.	2002-06-25
US	43220398	RXVZ7DPYOVUHY	0930289218	752643683	Frank Miller's Ronin	Books	5	8	10	N	N	HAVE A NICE APOCALYPSE!	Frank Miller used to be one of the comic creators I admired most but then the satisfactory, but somewhat less than impressive Sin City happened and I was turned off him a little bit. Don't get me wrong, Sin City was good, but it was standard fare, nothing to write home about. I just got the impression that Miller, like John Byrne, Chris Claremont, Chuck Dixon and others, was just past his prime. It was with this in mind that I sat down to read Ronin for the first time recently and I didn't have high hopes. I had forgotten that this was the Miller of old I was reading and as the story progressed I got the same enjoyment I got when I read some of Miller's masterpieces like Dark Knight, Year One, Daredevil and so on. Its such a fast paced story that you can barely put it down even to get a drink of water. So many twists and you can never guess what is going to happen in the end. Great dialogue, characters you really want to see again and an excellent apacalyptic theme. I really love the way that Miller mixed Samurai legend with futuristic technology. These two themes shouldn't work because they are too different, but somehow they do here.<BR>I haven't read any of his recent stuff, including DK2 but<BR>eading this has made me interested in checking Miller out again.	2002-06-25
US	43220398	RJDW2RKBO95YK	0345351525	589915655	The Queen of the Damned (The Vampire Chronicles, No. 3)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The One Where She Loses It!	This book starts out great but starts to become boring towards the end. There is too much history and too many stories within stories within stories to keep it interesting. All the characters are great, without exception, but there is just too much of this ancient Egypt stuff. Some parts of it feel more like history books than a bestselling horror novel. The plot revolves around an ancient Egyptian queen, an ancestor of all vampires, who tries to save the world by killing most of the male population. There are some interesting ideas there, including the idea that men are responsible for most of the problems of the world and that women would do a better job if they were given the chance. However, I just can't beleive the Queen's motive. I mean, why is she trying to save the world in the first place? Rice spends a lot of time trying to explain the motive and her personality, but I just can't see why she would go to all that trouble to save humanity. I am now reading the fourth installment of the Vampire Chronicles and it seems that Rice is back in good form now.	2002-06-11
US	43220398	RHATAXO38NO55	1563896206	59336312	Justice Be Done (JSA: Justice Society of America, Book 1)	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Very Very Nice!	I was very pleasantly surprised by this collection. It was far better than I expected. I am following James Robinsons' Starman trades as they come out and I like them, but I'm not crazy about them. I expected JSA to be as good or maybe a little worse because it just doesn't get the same critical acclaim as Starman. When I read it, I found it to be a lot better and even better than JLA. The characters are all interesting although Sand is probably my least favourite. Its got the best of new and old, some icons and some obscure characters. It has a similar link with the past that Starman has, which is always good because it takes advantage of DC's rich history, which is too often ignored. I have to admit that I was a bit disappointed when they revealed who the new Dr Fate was, but given time he may grow on me. And anyway, at least the helmet and medalion are back! I liked reading about the fate of the original Sandman and this comic is also making me like Wonder Woman (Hipolyta) more! The bad guy is a little [ineffectual], but the plot makes up for it. I also think that it offered a plausible excuse for JSA to reform.	2002-06-09
US	43220398	R1BY1XT7QEZUZ5	1563894645	397970592	Superman: Peace On Earth (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	2	4	13	N	Y	GREAT ART, VIRTUALLY NO STORY	The two stars this book gets is very generously given. If I was buying a pin-up book, I'd give it the full five stars, but this is supposed to be a story! Alex Ross's painting a beautiful, giving Superman and old-fashioned, noble look and also depicting the world's problems very well. But there is no story to speak of here! Superman does go through some internal and external struggles, but what was told in some 64-odd pages could have been told in 20! It just goes on and on about the same issues and frankly bores. Yes, we know the world is messed up. We know that human beings are flawed, etc, etc. Tell us something new and stop being so preachy! I am planning to get the Batman, Wonder Woman and Captain Marvel parts of this series and I'm crossing my fingers hoping that it gets better than this!	2002-06-09
US	43220398	R3Q5P3FHB38S3A	156389792X	40127231	Paradise Lost (Wonder Woman)	Books	3	1	3	N	Y	THE SECOND HALF WAS BRILLIANT, THE FIRST TERRIBLE	I have mixed feelings about this collection. If Gods of Gotham wasn't included I would have given it the full five stars, but the aforementioned storyline was one of the worst I ever read. The plot, in which Greek gods take over the bodies of three Batman rogue gallery members, is just silly. Its something you would expect to read in a 50s comic or the Superfriends TV show. And when Batman's body was taken over, I wanted to puke! Also, the dialogue is corny and it seems the point of the story is just to show how much Wonder Woman and Batman respect each other and how noble, fearless they are, etcetera, etcetera. Also, the Batman villains have almost no personality since its they are mindcontrolled for most of the story. I also object to the use of the Joker. This is a great character which is already overexposed. When there is a Joker appearance, we should say \\"Hey, cool! Joker\\". Now its like \\"Oh no, not again!\\" His appearances should mean something and he should really be sinister, not just a naughty clown, as so often seems to be the case. We don't need, on top of that, to have him appear in comics where he doesn't even have a personality. Having said that, some of the interactions between characters was well-handled. Putting Huntress with Artemis was a great idea. I can't beleive no one thought of it before! I'd like to see them together again. Also, Troia and Nightwing work well together, as ever. But there were just too many characters! Here is a roll call. Wonder Woman (of course), Hippolyta, Batman, Troia, Nightwing, Wonder Girl, Robin, Oracle, Artemis, Huntress, Ares, Deimos, Phobos, Eris, Joker, Poison Ivy, Scarecrow, Maxie Zeus, Harley Quin, Stheno and extras. See what I mean? There is no way that enough time can be devoted to all these characters. This feat was pulled off in stories like Crisis, Legends and Zero Hour, but that was with the support of crossovers. Here it just fails miserably.<br />OK, enough critisism. Phil Jimenez, with help from Devin Grayson, finally finds his footing with the story Who is Troia? Its a good retelling of Troia's origin and also serves as a good prologue to the next storyline, Paradise Lost. This is an epic tale, reminiscent of the ones George Perez used to tell when he wrote the book. In fact, Perez, contributes plots to part of the storyline, which depicts a battle between the two Amazon tribes. The ending is very climactic, with relevations and major changes for the Amazons. There is also an interesting love story sub-plot between the Amazons Iphthime and Anaya, who are of different races and different tribes also. I won't ruin the story by saying any more on that.<br />The last story, serving as an eplilogue to Paradise Lost, is good character development for both Wonder Woman and Lois Lane (and indirectly, Superman too).<br />As for the art, its some of the best I have ever seen by any artist. Its better than his previous work, but he seems to have become more derivitive of Perez. Jimenez is one of the most detailed and versitile pencillers around, however. I approve of all the character depictions here. He draws great monsters, beautiful women, detailed backgrounds (when needed) and his panel layouts, like Perez, are some of the best. Most pages have around ten panels each while most artists can only manage the standard six or even less.<br />And the cover gallery in the end, by Adam Hughes, is also beautiful. At least two of them are among my favourite covers of all time.<br />Whew! I never wrote such a long review before, but Wonder Woman is one of my favourite characters so I'm a bit passionate about her.	2002-06-06
US	43220398	R3KG1BONBTNF71	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	1	15	36	N	N	ONE OF THE MOST BORING BOOKS EVER	I asked my classmates when I was in school to select the Hobbit as a reading assignment instead, but they insisted on The Old Man and the Sea because it was a few pages shorter and they were just a lazy bunch of semi-literates. I normally like the classics, whether 20th Century classics or Shakespear, Wilde, Dickens, Shelly, Lord Byron and so on. No one has to force me to read books by those authors. That is why I was surprised that I hated so much a book by such a highly regarded author, such as Hemmingway. The characters were just boring. I didn't care for teh old man or the kid. It seems that nothing really happens in the book. You could skip the entire middle part of it and end up with pretty much the same story. By the way, this is the only Hemmingway story that I have read so maybe he has some other better stuff. This book has, however, put me off him and I don't expect to pick up another by him for the foreseable future, unless I get a really good recommendation.	2002-04-21
US	43220398	R1AB3ODUVLO6T	0930289307	798065421	Camelot 3000 (DC Comics Series)	Books	3	4	9	N	Y	Overrated	I had extremely high hopes for this one. After reading several other '80s DC classics set in the future (Ronin, Watchmen, Dark Knight Returns), I was expecting something spectaclular. Unfortunately, I was disappointed. Don't get me wrong, its OK, but its not the masterpeice some people say it is. Brian Bolland is my favourite artist and I was expecting his work to be of the same standard as The Killing Joke, which is the only other interior work of his that I have seen. It doesn't come close to that. Of course, the reason is obvious. Killing Joke was only 48-pages long and he took three years to draw it. Camalot 3000 is about 300 pages long and he probably had a stricter deadline. I always wondered why Bolland didn't do more interior work. Now I prefer that he sticks to covers because almost every one is a masterpiece. Story-wise, it is significant because it is one of DC's first mature comics and helps set the stage for Vertigo and so on. Although the climax was good, I found that some of the characters were not very well developed. Even King Arthur himself could have been made more real. Morgan Le Fay is excellent though as is Sir Tristan. The love triangle between Lancelot, Arthur and Guenevere could have been further explored also. Guenevere just doesn't seem to love Arthur at all, so why is there a triangle in the first place? She should just leave him.<BR>There are some intersting twists throughout, however, and it is unfortunate that DC doesn't make maxi-series like this very often these days.	2002-04-17
US	43220398	R1KEWDIH1T9FJ4	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Excellent Start	I am on my fourth Discworld novel now and I have to say that the first has been the best so far. It is a little hard to follow in the beginning but that's not a problem once you get into it. It has the second best set of characters that I have read so far (I like the characters in Equal Rites more, somehow) and it really does make you laugh outloud at times. If, like me, you appreciate book cover art, then search for the Corgi books edition. The covers are so much nicer than the bland Harper Prism edditions.	2002-04-11
US	43220398	RLSGLY75007PZ	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	4	44	55	N	Y	Sympathy for the Devil	The Killing Joke is one of the few Batman stories where you actually feel for the Joker as a character. In most stories he either comes off as a charicature of a killer or a sinister and dispicable murderer who you can't have any sympathy for. One of Alan Moore's masterpieces, it even has a song that you can sing. Its funny, but the tune just comes to your head. You automatically know how you should be singing it. The pacing is very cinematic and it is not overburdened with words. Wordless captions make the story more fast paced.<BR>Bolland (why doesn't he do more interiors these days?) is the best Joker (and Batman) artist of all time. The expressions of dispair that he draws on the faces of Barbara Gordon, the Joker, Commissioner Gordon and others are among the most realistic I have ever seen.	2002-04-11
