US	43252601	R1MJ8O5G417ZSL	0778321711	589367214	Black Ice	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Some Problems but Still An Exciting Adventure	\\"Black Ice\\" is the first book of Anne Stuart's that I have read, and although I am not a regular reader of romantic suspense, I was more impressed with the book than I thought might be possible. Ms. Stuart created a very memorable anti-hero in the person of Bastien Toussaint, who at least in the first half of the book could be right at home in a Daniel Silva novel. It is obvious from the first that Bastien is the hero, even though he has spent many years as a hired killer and an active participant in casual sexual encounters, some of them of the more kinky variety -- not activities that one normally associates with romance novel heroes. I am not totally sold on his transformation-by-love as related by Ms Stuart, and I think that she tied up the ends a little too swiftly, but I would be interested in reading more books with a similiar character as the principal male figure.<br /><br />The character of the heroine Chloe was a little more problematic for me -- she was a very naive 23 year old to have been on her own in Paris for the two years prior to the opening of the novel. The fact that she was bored in Paris made me feel that she was rather more shallow than Ms Stuart intended. Her pre-occupation with her looks (or rather what she thought of as her lack of looks) became tiresome toward the end, and at times she almost started to degenerate into the much hated Too Stupid to Live figure of far too much romantic fiction.<br /><br />Over all, this book is worth your while if you are a fan of either Ms Stuart or romantic suspense fiction. The villains are truly evil, the various settings and locales have a realistic feel, and Ms Stuart makes fresh use of the cliched plot device of claustrophobia (although I have to say that it is not in the league of Navada Barr's exploration of that fear in \\"Blind Descent\\").	2005-05-21
US	43252601	RIOT62SGWAWYF	1400053765	228387406	The Fourth Queen: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interesting Novel of Harem Life	\\"The Fourth Queen\\" is a fascinating study of what life may have been like in the harem of the Emperor of Morocco in the 18th century. The author based the character of Helen Gloag on a real Scottish girl of the same name who is supposed to have become the wife of the Emperor after being taken into captivity by pirates.<br /><br />Debbie Taylor's Helen is actually a composite figure of several women, about whom little is actually known. Due to this lack of knowledge about Helen's personality, character, and ultimate fate, Ms Taylor was able to create Helen as one would a totally fictional character. Helen is a flawed heroine in many ways (uneducated, unsophisticated, and basically self-centered). She is an interesting contrast to the character of Batoom, who is one of the four wives of the emperor. Batoom is older, as independent as one can be in the confines of the harem, and a woman of great compassion. The other main character is \\"Microphilus,\\" a male dwarf based upon a real man named Jeffrey Hudson, who lived a century earlier than the setting of this novel, but who also for a time lived as a captive in a North African harem. Microphilus fell almost instantly in love with Helen, even though he was having a relationship with Batoom.<br /><br />The most fascinating parts of this book include the rise of Helen from a bewildered, and pregnant, captive to one of the four wives of the emperor, and the wonderful depiction of harem life. The harem is shown in all of its decadence -- these women have nothing to do but eat, groom themselves, eat, spend money on useless trinkets, plot against each other, practice sex with each other, and eat some more. There are a couple of scenes of explicit sex, a violent execution of a runaway, and a mystery involving a plot against one of the four queens. While much of the novel is told in third person, the parts of the book seen from Microphilus' point of view are taken from his hidden journal (the author states that the journal entries are based upon the writings of Jeffrey Hudson). Although the character of Helen was a bit of a problem for me, I enjoyed the book and recommend it to those who like something a little out of the ordinary.ntries are based upon the writings of Jeffrey Hudson). Although the character of Helen was a bit of a problem for me, I enjoyed the book and recommend it to those who like something a little out of the ordinary.	2005-03-11
US	43252601	R1TT58XHCOEGRH	0451210654	801353308	Winter Fire	Books	3	7	10	N	Y	Appealing Characters Make Up for Some Plot Flaws	As those who have read my other reviews are aware, I read many literary genres, not just romance novels, and I try to hold romances to (nearly) the same standard by which I judge other novels. Jo Beverley's works are a bit problematic for me, as I think she has become a very talented writer who seems to struggle with the plots of her novels. \\"Winter Fire\\" is no exception to my opinion -- the characters are engaging, but the mystery element is slight, and the rather simple plot becomes as convoluted and twisted as the contents of a spaghetti bowl.<br /><br />If you have not read the proceeding books in this Georgian England series, you may find yourself struggling with the many characters and their relationships to each other. Our hero, the Marquis of Ashart, and his cousin, Lord Rothgar, are mortal enemies due to a feud that started over 30 years prior to the opening of the book. Genova Smith is a young lady whose family circumstances have caused her to become the paid companion to two elderly aunts of both the men. One of the mysteries of the novel is the paternity of a baby who is thrust upon Ms Smith and the aunts while they are on their way to spend Christmas at Lord Rothgar's. Everyone, with the exception of one of the aunts and Ashart himself, believes the child is the bastard son of Ashart. The other mystery has to do with the death of Rothgar's mother when he was just a child. It is this death that percipitated the family feud. Neither of these \\"mysteries\\" will hold your attention for more than a few minutes -- for example, the parentage of the child will be easily figured out by anyone who regularly reads detective fiction. The other flaw has to do with Rothgar and his change of heart regarding his cousin, which drives much of the plot: I found it a little hard to accept such a drastic change of character. And, as in most of Ms Beverley' novels, you must believe in love at first sight...or something close to it to suspend disbelief at the outcome.<br /><br />The charm of the book is in the characters, although I would have liked seeing the character of Genova Smith more fully developed. The aunts seemed to be straight out of central casting for any period piece movie from the 1930s through the 1940s -- Edna May Oliver instantly came to mind whenever the \\"crusty aunt\\" spoke -- but were amusing and touching. In \\"Winter Fire\\" the female characters who are the most finely drawn; however, Ashart's confession to Genova of his miserable childhood with Rothgar's bitter maternal grandmother was very touching to read. The book also introduced a new character in the person of a minx named Damaris Myddleton, who appears in the next book in the series, \\"A Most Unsuitable Man.\\" The book itself has an attractive stepback cover, which is not always the case with Beverley's books. If you take this book as a light read (perhaps on a cold winter's day with a pot of tea) you won't come away enthralled but more likely slightly amused.<br />The charm of the book is in the characters, although I would have liked seeing the character of Genova Smith more fully developed. The aunts seemed to be straight out of central casting for any period piece movie from the 1930s through the 1940s -- Edna May Oliver instantly came to mind whenever the \\"crusty aunt\\" spoke -- but were amusing and touching. In \\"Winter Fire\\" the female characters who are the most finely drawn; however, Ashart's confession to Genova of his miserable childhood with Rothgar's bitter maternal grandmother was very touching to read. The book also introduced a new character in the person of a minx named Damaris Myddleton, who appears in the next book in the series, \\"A Most Unsuitable Man.\\" The book itself has an attractive stepback cover, which is not always the case with Beverley's books. If you take this book as a light read (perhaps on a cold winter's day with a pot of tea) you won't come away enthralled but more likely slightly amused.	2005-03-11
US	43252601	R1ZYI73TAZUBZH	0451212991	691683708	Philippa (Friarsgate Inheritance)	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Nice Addition to The Friarsgate Inheritance Series	\\"Philippa\\" is the third novel in \\"The Friarsgate Inheritance Series,\\" a series that started with \\"Rosamund,\\" and continued with \\"Until You.\\" Rosamund Bolton, Philippa's mother, was the featured player in the first two books, but now that she has arrived at the ripe old age of 30, married for the fourth time, and the mother of seven children, Ms Small turns her attention to Rosamund's oldest daughter.<br /><br />From her introduction in \\"Until You,\\" it has been obvious that Philippa wants to escape what she sees as the deadly dullness of Friarsgate for the more exciting life of the court of Henry VIII and Queen Katherine. Her mother sends her to serve the Queen when Philippa is twelve years old. The story opens shortly before the girl's sixteenth birthday, when she is jilted by her fiance, who has decided to take holy orders. Disappointed and humiliated, Philippa indulges in some wild pranks that result in her being sent home to Friarsgate, where her family hardly recognizes the self-centered girl she has become during the past four years.<br /><br />Fate then takes a hand in the person of Philippa's much older cousin, Thomas Bolton, who buys a piece of prime property and secures Philippa a husband in one canny move. There is an interesting subplot involving a plan to kill the king at the famous Field of the Cloth of Gold, but the focus of the story is the unfolding relationship between Philippa and her husband, Crispin St Clair. As in her other books, Small's strong suit is her ability to re-create the world of the past without belaboring the historical background for those whose main interest is the love story. For those of us who want as much history as possible, it is obvious that Small has done her research.<br /><br />The Friarsgate Inheritance Series has introduced several memorable characters to the readers, especially Rosamund, her various husbands, and most especially Thomas Bolton, whose gayness seems to be a secret to everyone but the reader. Philippa herself is less interesting than her mother, and her inconsistencies of character were somewhat problematic for me: she is bold and wild in the first part of the book, but later in the novel, despite her mother's frank sexual advice, the girl suddenly becomes an overly timid and pious bride with no knowledge of what will happen on her wedding night.<br /><br />For those readers who started with the Sky O'Malley series, The Friarsgate Inheritance series will be a bit of a surprise: There are very few of the steamy, erotic sex scenes that made Ms Small famous. Her choice of language recalls the romance novels of the early 1980s, where writers seemingly tried to outdo each other in coming up with the most outrageous (and frankly laughable) terms for parts of the human body. This has the rather odd result of giving her books a slightly old-fashioned feeling. There is apparently a fourth book in the series, if the ending is any indication. If so, I am looking forward to reading it next year.pa herself is less interesting than her mother, and her inconsistencies of character were somewhat problematic for me: she is bold and wild in the first part of the book, but later in the novel, despite her mother's frank sexual advice, the girl suddenly becomes an overly timid and pious bride with no knowledge of what will happen on her wedding night.  <br /> <br />For those readers who started with the Sky O'Malley series, The Friarsgate Inheritance series will be a bit of a surprise: There are very few of the steamy, erotic sex scenes that made Ms Small famous. Her choice of language recalls the romance novels of the early 1980s, where writers seemingly tried to outdo each other in coming up with the most outrageous (and frankly laughable) terms for parts of the human body. This has the rather odd result of giving her books a slightly old-fashioned feeling. There is apparently a fourth book in the series, if the ending is any indication. If so, I am looking forward to reading it next year.	2004-10-13
US	43252601	R2XPV1UCIJPB0B	0553801465	657504659	Fire Along the Sky (Donati, Sara)	Books	5	59	60	N	Y	"Fire Along the Sky" will Not Disappoint You	In 1998 Sara Donati published \\"Into the Wilderness,\\" the first in this family saga set in post-Revoluntary War upstate New York. \\"Into the Wilderness\\" received excellent reviews from Booklist and Kirkus Reviews, and was embraced by readers of historical romances and historical novels. Books two and three of the series were somewhat disappointing, but in the fourth book of the series Donati has returned to her \\"Wilderness\\" roots. This is one of the few novels that I know that is set during the War of 1812, and while the author admits to having taken some liberties with the military aspects of the war, Donati has done her research.<br /><br />Lily, the daughter of Nathaniel and Elizabeth Bonner, is the focus of \\"Fire,\\" although cousin Jennet from Scotland, and Hannah (Nathaniel's daughter from his first marriage to an Indian woman) are not shortchanged. Lily has been hiding a secret, or so she believes: she thinks she is in love with a man married to a childhood friend, yet she finds herself attracted to Simon Ballentyne, the business partner of her half-brother Luke. Jennet has arrived unannounced from Scotland, hoping to marry Luke, who is reluctant to commit due to the war. And Hannah returns from the west without her husband or her child, a dispassionate shadow of her former self. The fates of some familiar characters from past books are resolved (including those of Richard Todd and Liam Kirby), while I have the feeling that evil Jemima Southern Kuick will turn up once again like a bad penny in a future installment.<br /><br />Donati has a knack of being able to handle a laundry-list of characters without ever confusing the reader as to their identity. Each character is an individual and some are little gems of individuality, such as Cornelius Bump. However, I do not feel that her books (with the exception of \\"Into the Wilderness\\") could ever be read as stand-alone books, as they build on each other, both in terms of plot and character development. Donati has an ability to faithfully recreate a time and place without going into great detail, as her books are primarily character-driven. Although not as evident in this book as in the previous ones, she has a knack for making the reader feel that he or she is really in the wilderness -- feeling the isolation of the characters, the smells and sounds of the world before the age of the train and the airplane, the telegraph and the cellphone. I am hoping that the fifth installment of this series is not far behind!s an ability to faithfully recreate a time and place without going into great detail, as her books are primarily character-driven. Although not as evident in this book as in the previous ones, she has a knack for making the reader feel that he or she is really in the wilderness -- feeling the isolation of the characters, the smells and sounds of the world before the age of the train and the airplane, the telegraph and the cellphone. I am hoping that the fifth installment of this series is not far behind!	2004-09-25
US	43252601	RYG6ZVT5MZ7CJ	0671864807	104919117	The RETURN	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Tale of the British Raj	I obviously disagree with the view expressed by the  Publisher's Weekly reviewer quoted elsewhere on this page. There is nothing lifeless about Haeger's prose or her characters, especially in the bedroom scene early in the novel after Charlotte and Edward are married. But if that were all, the book would just be \\"another romance novel.\\" Instead I found this to be a complex and compelling novel with shades of Thomas Hardy in the latter half of the book, which is set in England.<br /><br />When Charlotte Langston discovers that the husband she thought was killed ten year earlier in the Indian mutiny is alive and living in England, she must go to him. Physically scarred,  attractive but obviously no longer the great beauty she was at age 16, she has raised their son alone in India. Arriving in England, she discovers that Edward has remarried but she must be near him. She takes employment in his household and he does not recognize her. This is the weakest part of the book, as the wounds and their resulting faint scars do not sound as though they are so disfiguring that a husband would not recognize a beloved wife, even after ten years. However, if you can suspend your disbelief, this book is very worthwhile. The character of Anne, Edward's second wife, reminds me of the tragic Sue Brideshead in Hardy's \\"Jude the Obscure.\\" I am surprised that this book has not been reissued, as Haeger continues to publish and has a devoted following -- although not as large a one as she deserves.	2004-09-18
US	43252601	R4UP8GMGYIE7Y	0968454208	502142001	When Only the Love Remains: The Pain of Pet Loss	Books	4	52	55	N	Y	Moving Account of One Woman's Loss Helps Us All	My beloved kitty companion of nine years died suddenly on September 16, 2004 - as I write this, just three days ago. The totally unexpected loss of Sugarpuss is a terrible shock. Stuparyk's book was recommended to me that morning and I immediately ordered it on one day delivery from amazon (and I might add it arrived on the 17th as promised - thank you, amazon). I read most of it in one sitting, crying as in my mind I put my kitty in the place of Stuparyk's beloved rabbit, Poochie, who also died on September 16th several years ago. The poems are moving, especially the final one, which is also used for the title of the book. I very much identify with the poem where the author wishes for one more chance to hold her bunny alive again, which is what I feel about my Sugarpuss. I know I will go to this book again over the next several weeks. I would particularly recommend this book of poems for someone who feels grief but has problems expressing it, or who feels \\"funny\\" being so emotional over the loss of a companion animal.	2004-09-18
US	43252601	R3J47LSCB5PAO7	0312960646	711657794	Three Women At The Water's Edge	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Nancy Thayer is a Very Talented & Vastly Underrated Author	I discovered Nancy Thayer when her novels were being condensed for \\"Redbook Magazine,\\" when that publication was still featuring outstanding fiction for women in every issue. I was immediately struck by her narrative voice, and the way she dealt with issues that face many women over the course of a lifetime: love, sex, marriage, children, divorce, and death.<br />\\"Three Women at the Water's Edge\\" can almost be seen as an work based on the archetypal stages of women: mother, maiden, and crone, but with a twist. Margaret, the mother, has been given a second change at life -- she divorced her plodding, old-fashioned, and frankly dull husband, physically transformed herself from \\"Mrs. Santa Claus\\" to a glamorous middle-aged woman, and moved to Vancouver from the states. In the process Margaret bewilders her oldest daughter, Daisy, and eventually charms her youngest daughter, Dale, who was always \\"daddy's girl.\\"<br />Daisy is dumpted by her materialist YUPPY husband (the book was written in 1980) when she is pregnant with their second child. Daisy is a woman who took to marriage and motherhood like the proverbial duck to water..like many of Thayer's heroines, she passionately loves her children, probably more than she loves her husband, but his betrayal of her is shattering. Overweight when she got pregnant with her latest child, she buys into her husband's assessment that she is now dull and unattractive. The youngest daughter, Dale, is a teacher who goes to teach in a faraway town & falls in love with a local man. The divorces in her immediate family keep her unable to commit to a man who is truly her soul mate.<br />Thayer skillfully relates the stories of the three women, and how each works out her own destiny by accepting that a new life is possible and then acting upon it. Dale's story is perhaps the most predictable, and Margaret's the least so, with Daisy's somewhere in between. None of the characters are cliches, not even Daisy's rather miserable husband.<br />I wish that Ms Thayer had continued to write books in this same vein. \\"Stepping,\\" \\"Morning,\\" \\"Bodies and Souls,\\" and \\"Nell\\" are all books in the tradition of \\"Three Women at the Water's Edge.\\" Her later works have not IMO been quite as satisfactory, as they lack the narrative power & depth of the earlier books. Ms Thayer has long deserved to be more than a mid-list author --and it is possible that her later works have been an attempt to make her more mainstream. I for one hope she returns to her roots!>I wish that Ms Thayer had continued to write books in this same vein. \\"Stepping,\\" \\"Morning,\\" \\"Bodies and Souls,\\" and \\"Nell\\" are all books in the tradition of \\"Three Women at the Water's Edge.\\" Her later works have not IMO been quite as satisfactory, as they lack the narrative power & depth of the earlier books. Ms Thayer has long deserved to be more than a mid-list author --and it is possible that her later works have been an attempt to make her more mainstream. I for one hope she returns to her roots!	2004-07-13
US	43252601	R3S4FF619PAK6F	0440226015	466643093	More than a Mistress (The Mistress Trilogy)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	&quot;More Than a Mistress&quot; is More than Satisfactory!	&quot;More Than a Mistress&quot; is IMO a cut above the usual in the historical romance genre. Mary Balogh has been writing Georgian, Regency and Victorian romance novels for several years, yet always manages to come up with something fresh in her latest offerings. The book opens with a duel that is interrupted by our heroine, &quot;Jane&quot; Ingleby, who is on the lam in London, hiding from the father of the man she believes she has killed while defending her honor. Her shout of horror as she sees the two duelers ready to fire at each other in the public park causes our hero, Jocelyn Dudley, to suffer a severe wound to one leg. &quot;Jane&quot; moves into Jocelyn's house to nurse him, as she has lost her situation due to being late to work...all because of that duel!<br />The major strength of this book is the unveiling of the secrets of the heart: Jocelyn has had a very unhappy and unstable childhood and young adulthood even though he is a Duke. His artistic talents were a source of irritation to his father, who belittled him constantly, and his mother was distant and cold. After making &quot;Jane&quot; his mistress, he confides in her his deepest secrets and longings. But she, who won't even tell him her real name out of fear of being exposed as a murderess, keeps her secrets locked in her heart. Jocelyn's reaction when he discovers the &quot;truth&quot; is heart wrenching.<br />While the mystery is slight (most readers will have figured it out half way through the book) this character-driven novel will hold your attention from beginning to end. &quot;Jane&quot; may seem a little too modern to some readers because she is so well-educated -- but as a beloved only child of intelligent, titled parents she was obviously indulged and encouraged to stretch her intellect. Jocelyn can easily be seen as a romantic hero inspired by Byron and Shelley. All in all, a satisfying read!	2004-07-08
US	43252601	RGEX1QNECQIQ	0425188884	370448941	Anonymous Rex	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Phillip Marlow as a Dino...Very Funny and Engaging Mystery	What can you say about a book that has a dinosaur for a hero/narrator? And the dinosaur lives in present day Los Angeles, disguised as a human, trying to earn his living as a private detective? And, further more, he is part of a whole dinosaur sub-culture that exists side-by-side with the unknowing human culture? Well, I call it very, very clever and funny!<br />Our hero is dinosaur Vincent Rubio (VelociRaptor,get it?) a private eye whose partner has died (shades of Miles Archer), and whose business is headed straight for the toilet with various bill collectors knocking at the door. The insurance company Vincent works for from time to time gives him an arson case to investigate that, naturally, ends up being tied to the mysterious death of his partner. The story moves from Los Angeles to New York City to back again, all the while giving the reader typical detective story action, and untypical insight into Garcia's alternative world where the dinosaurs did not die out millions of years before the appearance of man on the scene. The reptiles have their own culture and society, have made their own accomodation to the present by going about in elaborate disguises (some of the funniest moments of the book occur when Vincent's current disguise goes haywire and threatens to expose him in more ways than one!), and keep strictly apart from the dominate human culture, which they view with contempt.<br />The book is written in a style that will remind you in a vague way of the noir mysteries of the 1940s and 50s. Vincent Rubio is an appealing character: I finished this book wanting to read the sequel, and was delighted to find out that a new hardcover (&quot;Hot and Sweaty Rex: A Dinosaur Mafia Mystery&quot;) had just been released. My only real criticism of the book is that there is not enough &quot;background material&quot; on how the dinosaurs &quot;survived&quot; and evolved into creatures that could develop technology. Not all readers need a backstory; those who do will be spending some of their time filling in the blanks from the information that Garcia gives us in bits and pieces. If you are willing to suspend your disbelief, the dinosaur mystery books will be a real treat for you.e spending some of their time filling in the blanks from the information that Garcia gives us in bits and pieces. If you are willing to suspend your disbelief, the dinosaur mystery books will be a real treat for you.	2004-06-11
US	43252601	R3FDZ2P0WZHSDB	0820321362	268899265	Where Death and Glory Meet: Colonel Robert Gould Shaw and the 54th Massachusetts Infantry	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	A Good Portrait of &quot;New England's Perfect Son&quot;	Although Robert Gould Shaw was only 25 years old when he died, leading the 54th Massachusetts Infantry in a futile assault on Fort Wagner, he has become an object of interest in the past dozen years, especially since the release of the movie &quot;Glory,&quot; which gave a somewhat fictionalized account of the 54th. This book by Russell Duncan is a good introduction to the life of Shaw, and gives an extensive bibliography for those who want to engage in further reading and research.<br />In this book (which is an expanded version of the introduction to Shaw's collected letters that Duncan edited and published in the book &quot;Blue Eyed Child of Fortune&quot;) Duncan gives a view of a life that one can truly say was tragically cut short by war. Robert Gould Shaw spent much of his short life trying to find his way and place in the world, something that many of us can identify with immediately. He had difficulty in accepting authority; he could not decide upon a career; he was the only son of well-known abolitionist parents, yet he had grave reservations about the abilities of black people. A &quot;rebel&quot; by nature, he could be rigid and unbending with others. He was dominated by his mother, only truly breaking away from her by marrying a lovely young woman against his mother's wishes. Married to a woman he apparently adored, he also engaged in a flirtation with a schoolmistress in South Carolina after accepting the command of the 54th. Shaw had found his calling in the military: he was brave, and able to inspire confidence within his men, yet he promised his future wife that he would not persue the military as a career once the war was over.<br />This book is a good introducation to the brief life of Robert Gould Shaw. It contains some photographs of the Shaw family and Annie Haggarety, Shaw's wife. It also dispells some of the myths about the 54th that were present in the movie &quot;Glory,&quot; chief among them the myth that the 54th was made up primarily of unlettered escaped slaves. From reading Duncan's book it appears many were literate freedmen of long standing. Also, the sergeant-major of the 54th was the son of Frederick Douglass, not the middle aged recruit as played by Morgan Freedman in the movie. I would recommend this book for anyone who is interested in the life of Robert Gould Shaw, or the history of the 54th, as a jumping off point for further reading.unlettered escaped slaves. From reading Duncan's book it appears many were literate freedmen of long standing. Also, the sergeant-major of the 54th was the son of Frederick Douglass, not the middle aged recruit as played by Morgan Freedman in the movie. I would recommend this book for anyone who is interested in the life of Robert Gould Shaw, or the history of the 54th, as a jumping off point for further reading.	2004-06-11
US	43252601	R1JCGC4NIR3QAN	0066211115	10483428	Islands	Books	3	11	15	N	Y	Not up to Siddons Previous Works but Readable	I was disappointed in Ms Siddon's latest offering, \\"Islands.\\" As a fan of long standing, I always am happy to hear when she has a new book about to be published. Unfortunately, \\"Islands\\" was not up to the standards set by such outstanding earlier works as \\"Colony,\\" \\"Hill Towns,\\" \\"Downtown,\\" and \\"Outerbanks.\\"<br />In this book, Ms Siddons' narrator is just plain boring:it is easy to understand why Anny Butler has spent most of her adult life devoting herself to her work, as the woman is as dull as dirt! Given that, it is less than understandable why a man-about-town takes an instant shine to her and immediately begins courting her. This improbable romance takes on the characteristics of a wish-fullfillment for potential readers, most of whom will be female of a certain age (being that age myself, I have to state that I dislike being manipulated in that fashion by an author, although maybe I am being too unkind to Ms Siddons).<br />Unlike many of Ms Siddons previous works, there was nothing gripping about the plot of the story, and none of the characters stood up and grabbed the reader. Ms Siddons has explored the nature of sexual and personal obsession before, and done a much better job of it. My biggest gripe is reserved for the secondary character of Gaynelle: the reader is supposed to believe that Gaynelle has an advanced degree in library science, but can only support herself and her obnoxious child by cleaning houses. In addition, most of her spare money goes to entrance fees and tacky costumes so her 7 year old girl can enter beauty pagents. It just doesn't wash! My advice on this book is to save your money for the paperback edition.	2004-06-10
US	43252601	R1OBSZPLEQQF02	155652532X	829916644	Katherine (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	35	35	N	Y	&quot;Katherine&quot; Set the Standard for Many Readers	If you talk to someone who enjoys historical fiction, it is more than likely that they have read at least one book by Anya Seton. It seems to be a tossup as to whether &quot;Katherine&quot; or &quot;Green Darkness&quot; is mentioned as their favorite of her works. It is difficult to believe that &quot;Katherine&quot; is the only one of her works currently in print. This wonderful new edition, reissed by  Chicago Review Press in 2004, is hopefully part of an effort to reissue some of the author's other works.<br />What sets &quot;Katherine&quot; above other historical novels and especially above historical romances? Like the best historical novels, &quot;Katherine&quot; is specific to its time period, in this case 14th century England. It is the story of real people, John of Gaunt and his mistress, and, later, third wife Katherine Swynford. The charcters are congruent with their time period: Katherine is not a 20th-century politically correct feminist decked out in a 14th century gown. While we will never know if she experienced the thoughts and emotions ascribed to her by Ms Seton, they were correct for the time period and give the novel that feeling of reality.<br />John and Katherine's story has been outlined in other reviews on this page, so I do not feel it is necessary to rehash the plot. However, one of Ms Seton's gifts as a writer is her ability to create believable characters, and this work has them in abundance: Katherine's sister Philippa, married to Geoffrey Chaucer, is a busybody who is human enough to feel pangs of envy when she looks at her beautiful sister; Chaucer and John of Gaunt both find Katherine's earthy beauty disturbing when they compare her to John's remote and lovely first wife, Blanche, whom Chaucer worships from afar; and the most tragic figure of the story, Hugh Swynford, Katherine's first husband, who loves her from the first time he sees her, and who can barely gain her attention, even after they are married. Katherine's eventual guilt over Hugh's death, &amp; her treatment of him when he was alive, is heart wrenching.<br />When you open this book you leave the 21st century and its problems behind, and enter the world of 14th century: it is a world full of superstition,&quot;magic,&quot; sudden death by the Black Plague,  and constant danger. It will literally come alive for you, and you may have a hard time coming back to the reality of an equally dangerous modern world. It is worth the trip!over Hugh's death, &amp; her treatment of him when he was alive, is heart wrenching.<br />When you open this book you leave the 21st century and its problems behind, and enter the world of 14th century: it is a world full of superstition,&quot;magic,&quot; sudden death by the Black Plague,  and constant danger. It will literally come alive for you, and you may have a hard time coming back to the reality of an equally dangerous modern world. It is worth the trip!	2004-06-10
US	43252601	R1N4040UE8LFEX	0425193055	342770934	The Knight And The Rose (Berkley Sensation)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	If You Can't Get Enough Bickering in Real Life..Read This!	Isolde Martyn's &quot;The Knight and the Rose&quot; had much going for it until she apparently decided that a disagreeable heroine would hit the literary spot. If you are a reader who enjoys endless bickering and conflict based primarily on misunderstandings between the hero and heroine, this is your book; however, I was annoyed about a third of the way though and serious considered not finishing the novel. Because the premise was so interesting to me I decided to complete the book: the story is based upon a real court case of the Middle Ages involving a man who posed as the handfast husband of an abused wife in order to save her from further physcial harm at the hands of her true husband.<br />Martyn has a good grasp of the time period (England in the year 1322, a very few  years before Roger Mortimer and Queen Isabel deposed Edward II) and the culture. She has created a very appealing hero in Geraint, and some memorable secondary characters as well. Unfortunately, Johanna FitzHenry is one of those heroines who is characterized by many romance readers as TSTL (too stupid to live): her judgement is terrible, her logic is flawed, and even when she knows she is wrong she persists in her contrary ways. I found her grating in the extreme.<br />Ms Martyn is a talented author, who obviously put much time and thought into her research and the writing of this novel. It is a shame that she gave us a conventional romance novel heroine of the feisty-for-its-own-sake school: if someone is trying to save you from a fate worse than death, at the very least common sense dictates that you support them, not thwart them at every turn. I hope that this type of hero/heroine relationship is not characteristic of all of Ms Martyn's novels.	2004-06-07
US	43252601	R8TDC687K750	0553582798	988712650	Lake in the Clouds	Books	3	27	27	N	Y	A Bit of a Let Down, but Still Entertaining	Of the three books so far in the series, this is my least favorite, and I am sure it is because the focus has shifted from Elizabeth and Nathaniel Bonner to Hannah, Nathaniel's daughter by his first wife, who was an Indian. Hannah is just entirely too noble for this reader to relate to comfortably, and, indeed, I found that the Bonners &amp; many of their neighbors are starting to become a little too politically correct for their time period. In the first book of the series  I felt that because Elizabeth was a follower of Mary Wolstonecraft Shelley her feminist point of view was understandable, and her character is still consistent with those principles. The fact that most of the other &quot;good guys&quot; feel the same way is perhaps stretching the truth of the time period a little thin, although Donati does give a more balanced portrait of a conflicted character in bounty-hunter Liam Kirby.<br />Hannah's determination to become a doctor couldn't have arrived at a worse time, as  even female midwives were being forced out of practice in the more populated areas because the use of obstetrical forceps were reserved for men. However, in this book Hannah being part Indian is more of a barrier to becomming being a doctor than being a women, which is just not realistic. The fact that she is half Indian and cannot decide for much of the book which side of her heritage has the bigger claim is the main plot driver. That also brings in one of the more appealing characters in the book, the Indian Strikes the Sky. The most interested parts of the book in my opinion are the ones that take place in New York City, and involve the Almshouse, manumission of slaves, and the Tammany Society. In other words, the closer Donati stayed to history the better the book.<br />Still and all, this book is a cut above the run of the mill historical romance -- although Bantam has not, rightly in my opinion, classifed it as a romance novel, but rather as a straight historical. It is full of rich detail, and has an earthy quality that is missing in so many books that deal with this period, when it is dealt with at all. For those who are looking for an enjoyable novel set in post-Revolutionary War America this is a good choice.ch detail, and has an earthy quality that is missing in so many books that deal with this period, when it is dealt with at all. For those who are looking for an enjoyable novel set in post-Revolutionary War America this is a good choice.	2004-06-01
US	43252601	RZV5IU50F7RAN	0553578529	391628853	Into the Wilderness	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The First  in a Wonderful New Series	From the opening sentence of the book, which recalls Jane Austen's &quot;Emma,&quot; this reader was immediately swept into the world of late 18th century upstate New York. Although the book invites comparisons to Dianah Gabaldon's Outlander series (and indeed Clare Frasier makes a brief appearance as a battlefield doctor), I found it also reminiscent of the works of Anya Seton. There is careful attention to the details of ordinary everyday life, an emphasis on creating memorable characters, and  plot twists and turns that are quite suspenseful.<br />Actually, the book can almost be considered a sequel to Cooper's &quot;The Last of the Mohicans,&quot; as Hawkeye and Chingachgook are featured characters, the former being the father of Nathaniel Bonner, the hero of this novel. Our heroine is Elizabeth Middleton, who has come to upstate New York from England at the age of 29 years to join her father, who has been living in the remote village for many years. Some reviewers have commented that Elizabeth is too politically correct for her time period, however I disagree, as it is made clear that she is a reader of Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley and other reformers. She is really a blue stocking in the best sense of that term. Her opening herself to love is a gradual process, although the reader knows from the start that Nathaniel is indeed her soul mate. Elizabeth is no &quot;milk &amp; water miss,&quot; as she has physical as well as moral courage. She defies her father, whom she truly loves, in order to follow not only her heart but also her head &quot;into the wilderness&quot; for a fullfilling life among those rejected as savages by the dominant culture.<br />This is a book for anyone who enjoys detailed examinations of everyday life in the past, complex characters who are not sterotypes (Elizabeth's brother Julian and the village doctor, Richard Todd, are fully realized characters in their own right, not cardboard villains), and exciting adventure. There are supposed to be five books in this series: books two and three are in paperback, and number four is due out in hardcover this fall. I already have mine reserved!o be five books in this series: books two and three are in paperback, and number four is due out in hardcover this fall. I already have mine reserved!	2004-06-01
US	43252601	R1RS5RKN7TZEUB	0553578553	131310413	Dawn on a Distant Shore (Wilderness)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A Cut Above the Ordinary	Sequels often are big let-downs, but fortunately that is not the case with &quot;Dawn on a Distant Shore,&quot; the second book in a projected five part series that started with &quot;Into the Wilderness.&quot;<br />Elizabeth and Nathaniel Bonner are still the focus of the story, which moves along at a fairly brisk clip, although it does falter toward the end when the action moves from Canada to Scotland. Elizabeth still exhibits the same moral and physical courage as she did in the first book of the series. When her husband Nathaniel follows his father Daniel to Montreal, the younger man is also arrested and is likely to be hanged as a spy. Elizabeth, having given birth to twins, takes her babies to Canada in the dead of winter to try to save him. As in the previous book, no one is ever quite who or what they seem, and the Bonners encounter many shady characters in trying to determine Daniel Bonner's heritage....the secret of which lies in Scotland.<br />Sara Donati is a gifted storyteller. She has a good ear for natural sounding dialogue, her plotting is refreshingly original, and her characters are appealing -- even the &quot;bad guys&quot; have shades of gray in their character. My main criticism of this book had to do with the slowing of the action once the story moved to Scotland, and the fact that Nathaniel's daughter (Hannah or Squirrel) from his first marriage has started to take center stage. For some reason authors seem to feel compelled to make children in historical novels into little adults, and Hannah is no exception to that &quot;rule.&quot; Her emotions are simply too adult-like to be appealing to this reader. However, I still highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for something a little different in an historical family saga. The fourth book in the series will be out in hardcover this fall.	2004-06-01
US	43252601	R1WVZP6UQCH28	0505525917	501068608	Day of Fire (2176 Series, Book 2)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Highly Recommended Futurist Novel by Kathleen Nance	\\"Day of Fire\\" is the second book in a five book series set in the year 2176. \\"The Legend of Banzai McGuire,\\" by Susan Grant, was the first of the five books, and introduced the premise that the world has changed greatly since the 21st century  due to a series of wars and plagues. The old political boundaries have disappeared, to be replaced by nation-states -- Canada has been isolated from the rest of the world due to repeated smallpox epidemics. Recently, someone known as the Shadow Voice has been broadcasting calls to revolution all over the world, including Canada.<br />\\"Day of Fire\\" skillfully recounts the story of Day Daniels, a 22nd century member of the Canadian Mounties, and her uneasy partnership with Lian Firebird, a plague hunter. Kathleen Nance is an excellent story teller -- she draws the reader in immediately with Day's almost humorous encounter with some college students who take over a huge concrete sculpture of a moose in order to broadcast a message from the Shadow Voice. The encounter quickly turns dangerous and deadly and Day looses her partner to a murderer. On an order from the Prime Minister, Day and Lian become partners so they can discover the person or group who wants to unlease a new plague on Canada.<br />While the action comes fast and furious, Nance also explores the at first uneasy partnership that is spiced with a strong sexual attraction. Both Day and Lian have baggage from the past that could keep them apart in the future; unlike far too many novels of this type, the conflicts are realistic and not just the result of a contrived misunderstanding. Day and Lian are fully developed characters, and the author also has created memorable secondary charcters as well. This is a much more detailed and complex work than Grant's \\"Legend of Banzai McGuire\\" which lead off the series, which is why I rated it as 5 stars and \\"Banzai McGuire\\" with 4 stars. Nance has a good ear for dialogue and also a writing style that contains details this reader enjoys in a futurist novel (hockey is still the national sport of Canada & just as prone to violence as it is today, for example).enjoys in a futurist novel (hockey is still the national sport of Canada & just as prone to violence as it is today, for example).	2004-05-31
US	43252601	R1Z13JBKQKQACY	0505525429	778812573	The Legend of Banzai Maguire (2176 Series, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	More Like This One, Please!	'The Legend of Banzai Mcguire' is the first of a five book series, set in the year 2176. Susan Grant is the author of this the first book in the series, and the final book, 'The Scarlet Empress,' which will be published in December 2004. This is the first book of Ms Grant's that I have read, and I was very impressed over all with her work.<br />Bree 'Banzai' Mcguire is an United States Air Force pilot shot down over North Korea in the year 2006. Along with her wingman, she is placed in a form of suspended animation by her &quot;rescuer&quot; in a secret underground chamber, the location of which is subsequently lost in a series of wars and plagues that begin in the mid-21st century. In the year 2176, she awakes to find that the world she knew is no more. The entire political structure has changed (there is no more United States, instead there is nationstate known as the United Colonies of Earth). The UCE SEAL, Ty Armstrong, who discovers her location, temporarily loses the &quot;custody&quot; of Banzai to Kyber, the Emperor Prince of Asia. Kyber insists that his is the perfect kingdom and his citizens are happy and content with their lot, but there are strong signs of trouble in paradise. Banzai must decide if she will stay with Kyber, or risk everything going with Ty, who wants to take her back to the UCE.<br />Grant's strong suit is in creating an alien world that the reader can believe in - &quot;yes, it could actually happen this way.&quot; She gives just the right amount of detail that explains the history of this new world of 2176; the reader can clearly visualize the physical aspects as well as the &quot;new technology.&quot; She also keeps the storyline moving with just the right amount of action. One of the weaknesses of the book is that we only get to know three characters, and one of those not very well. Banzai is the most fully realized, an alpha female without being overpowering, while Kyber is probably the weakest -- I expected at any moment that he would burst into a chorus of &quot;Shall We Dance,&quot; from 'The King and I.' We never get into Kyber's mind as we do Banzai's and Ty's.<br />I am very much looking forward to the rest of this series, as we discover more about this new world of 2176 and find out who is responsible for fomenting rebellion among the nations by broadcasting quotations from the great colonial patriot, Patrick Henry.uld burst into a chorus of &quot;Shall We Dance,&quot; from 'The King and I.' We never get into Kyber's mind as we do Banzai's and Ty's. <br />I am very much looking forward to the rest of this series, as we discover more about this new world of 2176 and find out who is responsible for fomenting rebellion among the nations by broadcasting quotations from the great colonial patriot, Patrick Henry.	2004-05-05
US	43252601	R2EOKAOOQ4R8K5	0821764012	69516189	An Arranged Marriage (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not Ms Beverley's Best!	\\"An Arranged Marriage\\" is one of Ms Beverley's earlier works, being first published in 1991, and it is also the first in the \\"Company of Rogues\\" series, set in Regency England. There are two major problems with this work: the first is that it is almost entirely told from the point of view of the heroine, Eleanor Chivenham, who is pregnant and housebound during most of the book. The most exciting elements, the adventures of the hero Nicholas Delany, happen offstage and are related to the reader by Nicholas at the conclusion of the narrative. The second major problem is that the book opens with the rape of the virginal heroine by Nicholas' brother, who arranges for Nicholas to marry Eleanor, hence the title of the book. Eleanor's reaction to the rape is surprising: she displays about the same level of emotion as if her bottom had been pinched! Even though the author had Eleanor considering throwing herself in the river this reader at least never felt her distress. She is far too understanding and pragmatic, even given the time period and her unhappy family background.<br />I had a lesser problem with the fact that Nicholas kept up an affair after the marriage to Eleanor, as it made sense on several levels: Nicholas had been spying on the suspected Bonapartist for months before he wed Eleanor, his marriage was not a love match in the beginning, and, as another reviewer pointed out, it was not unusual for men of his station to keep a mistress after marriage. However, for some more traditionally minded romance readers this was a major concern, as it went against the conventions of romance writing -- for me that was a bonus, but I didn't feel it was handled as well as it could have been in this book. Again, I think it was a problem of things being related to us mostly after the fact.<br /><br />I have read some of the Company of Rogues series out of order, and in my opinion \\"An Arranged Marriage\\" is one of the weaker books. While I believe that Ms Beverley is one of today's outstanding writers of Regency and Georgian romances, mysteries are not her strong suit, and the longer Regency novels seem to \\"require\\" that there be a mystery. However, her later books are much better as: 1)she alternates point of view and 2)does not merely relate the most exciting parts of the story but actually makes the reader into a participant. This book is a must-read if you are going to complete the entire Compnay of Rogue series, and while IMO it is flawed, it is still a good introduction to the other characters in the \\"Company.\\"outstanding writers of Regency and Georgian romances, mysteries are not her strong suit, and the longer Regency novels seem to \\"require\\" that there be a mystery. However, her later books are much better as: 1)she alternates point of view and 2)does not merely relate the most exciting parts of the story but actually makes the reader into a participant. This book is a must-read if you are going to complete the entire Compnay of Rogue series, and while IMO it is flawed, it is still a good introduction to the other characters in the \\"Company.\\"	2004-05-01
US	43252601	R3SYJL3EO1P4HX	0451205804	923981954	Hazard	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	One of the Best in the Company of Rogues Series	If the reader has been following the Company of Rogues since the first book (&quot;An Arranged Marriage&quot;) was published in 1991, you are familiar with the name Anne Peckworth. Anne has the &quot;honor&quot; of having been jilted twice in the same series. Anne has always taken her disappointments in love with a placid, calm exterior, but this last jilting is the last straw for the intelligent, sensitive young woman. Although from a wealthy family, and very beautiful, Anne has a club foot which causes her to walk with a slight limp; she is becoming more and more convinced that she will never marry. When she meets Race de Vere, former secretary to the last man who jilted her, the sparks fly, as Anne figures she has nothing to lose by assuming a new, more daring, persona. The title of the book takes it's name from the dice game hazard, which was the forerunner of the modern game of craps. de Vere teaches Anne how to play the game and she takes to it like the proverbial duck to water, all apart of her desire to transform to life. de Vere is struck by her beauty, her intelligence, and her fire, but feels that he has little to offer her since he is not a wealthy man. This book is well written, has very appealing major and secondary characters, and gives a well researched view of life in Regency England. There is a bit of a mystery as well, although mysteries are not Beverley's long suit, so the suspense there is minimal. There was some criticism that there were not enough scenes of lovemaking in &quot;Hazard&quot;, but in this book Ms Beverley goes more with the historical reality of life for a single woman of good reputation rather than with the romance novel conventions. In my opinion, the Company of Rogues series continues to improve with each book, as Ms Beverley's writing becomes more skilled: in the first book of the series, most of the important action took place offstage, where now the author seems to realize that the reader must experience the action in order to feel a part of the story. I am looking forward to the next offerings in this series.to feel a part of the story. I am looking forward to the next offerings in this series.	2004-05-01
US	43252601	R1WT4E9DM8R3BP	0060516283	92035455	Gallow's Thief	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Rider Sandman is my hero	I highly recommend this intelligent and exciting novel set in Regency England. Bernard Cornwell has given us an insolvent war hero, who also is an outstanding cricket player, recruited (on request of the queen) to determine if a man condemned to die is actually guilty of murder. The opening chapter of the book takes the reader to a hanging and follows it up with a breakfast of kidneys -- a most memorable start for this breakneck paced mystery. Rider Sandman is a very likeable hero, ethical in the extreme, who will not rest until he finds out who indeed murdered the lightskirted wife of an English nobleman. In the process, he recruits a former soldier, an opera girl and her highwayman brother, as well as friends who knew him before his father disgraced the family name and lost the family fortune. Along the way, he has to deal with conflicted feelings about his former love, whose parents forced the young lady in question to break off her engagment to Sandman when his father committed suicide. This book takes the reader from the city of London to the countryside and back again, with some side trips to the cricket field. According to the author's website, there are many fans who hope for a sequel to &quot;Gallows Thief,&quot; however Mr Cornwell is not committing himself at this time. We live in hope!	2004-04-26
US	43252601	RZ0S4D3V2AFU4	0451204794	222295787	Crooked Hearts	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wild About "Crooked Hearts"	If I had to pick my favorite romance novel, this would be the one. I read this book when it was first published by the late  Topaz division of Penguin, when the book had a cover that actually matched its contents. I was lucky to grab another copy before it went to a hearts and flowers format. Don't be fooled by the cover -- this is an adventure story with a dash of romance and much humor. Grace and Reuben are the most appealing of charcters -- funny, romantic, and hard-boiled all at once. The opening scene is memorable: con-woman Grace, disguised as a nun, pulls up her skirts to re-adjust the gun she has hidden under her habit. What she doesn't know is that the \\"blind\\" man seated across from her in the stagecoach is another grifter, taking in the view from behind his dark glasses. Set in  California in the 1880s, this book makes you wish you had seen old San Francisco, before the earthquake. It is in the zany tradition of the cult TV program \\"Brisco County, Jr.\\" with chase scenes, narrow escapes, bad guys with issues, and sex that can be both humorous and tender. If you are feeling low, this is a book to lift your spirits and tickle your funny bone at the same time.	2004-04-07
US	43252601	R36UMDCYBTC53K	0385337477	168107941	Lord John and the Private Matter	Books	3	214	221	N	N	"Lord John"  --  Not a Bad Start for a New Series	\\"Lord John and the Private Matter\\" started existance as a short story that got away from the author, and ended up instead as a  novel. It is the first of a series of mysteries featuring a character from the wildly popular \\"Outlander\\" series by Diana Gabaldon. Lord John is an 18th century British army officer, who also happens to be gay. His sexual orientation is made known to the reader from the beginning (if they did not know it already from reading \\"Outlander), but it is not common knowledge among his fellow officers. In solving the rather light-weight mystery, Lord John gives the reader a tour of the underground world of some 18th century London homosexuals, including pubs that catered to gays, as well as houses of prostitution. Some of the vocabulary in the book is rather modern (such as the use of the word 'transvestite'), and the author states that she did take liberties in this area. There is a brief encounter with a male prostitute, which may disturb some readers.<br />The strength of the novel is with the characters, not the plot. Lord John is very likable and intelligent; his loyalty to his family shines through the entire work. We also get to meet his delightful mother, who is witty and well-read. My impression was that mother was aware of her son's sexual orientation, although that is not spelled out; his 16-year-old female cousin is obviously unaware, as she would like to see him married.<br />I hope that future \\"Lord John\\" books have a stronger plot line and a more interesting mystery. Ms Gabaldon's \\"Outlander\\" series is full of historical detail, has complex plot lines, and very memorable characters, so that this book was a bit of a disappointment to a reader who has read all of her previous books more than once. However, the strong characterizations alone will keep me coming back to \\"Lord John.\\"	2003-12-06
US	43252601	R3LAUJ58PYH8JC	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	3	113	133	N	N	I Wanted to Love This Book!	Ever since I was in elementary school I have been drawn to books about the sea, so by all rights I should have loved \\"Master and Commander.\\" But \\"Master and Commander\\" is, for me, more work than pleasure. It is full of nautical terms from the 18th and 19th centuries that are never explained, there is very little plot in this book, which is first in the series, and I did not immediately find the characters \\"charming,\\" which is the term most often used in connection with Jack Aubrey. However, before POB fans keelhaul me, I did, on the third try, complete the book, and intend to keep reading my way through the \\"canon.\\" So for those who are not immediately smitten with the world Patrick O'Brian created, my advice, based upon the advice of others, is to not give up: ignore the complex naval terminology, because it really isn't necessary for you to understand it; if you are not familar with the time period, there are POB websites which will provide you with the necessary background; if you find his prose dense, and smacking more of the 19th than the 20th century (when the books were written), keep reading, it will grow on you, as will the characters. I have been told, \\"Do not judge the rest of the series by 'Master and Commander,\\" as it is the most difficult of POBs books. Frequently people, such as myself, come to this book expecting it to be similar to the works of Kent or Forester, and it is not: it is much more complex and challenging, and that can be frustrating in the beginning, but rewarding in the end. All the readers of the series assure me that the characters become more developed, and questions that are raised in \\"M & C\\" are answered in future books. I still rate it a four not a five because of the overuse of sailing terminology and obscure 18th & 19th allusions, which I suspect have kept many a reader from completing the book, and discouraged them from the rest of the series.	2003-11-15
US	43252601	RSGTHJRJY9EJS	157673577X	306852563	Danger In The Shadows	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Very Nice Surprise	Not only is this the first book by Dee Henderson that I have read, but it is the first \\"inspirational\\" romance that I have read, but not the last. I have always avoided the inspirational genre, as I assumed books of this nature would be a religious tract with a little bit of a story to hold together the \\"preaching-parts.\\" Well, since it is the first one of its kind that I have read, I cannot comment on the genre in general, but I can say that is not the case with \\"Danger in the Shadows:\\" the religious aspects are deftly woven into the fabric of the story, and never overwhelm it. Unlike another reviewer, I felt there was quite a bit of chemistry between Sara, a author of children's books in the FBI witness protection program due to being the victim of a high-profile kidnapping at the age of 6, and Adam Black, retired professional football player, who becomes involved with Sara after they are trapped in a stalled elevator. Sara is very attracted to Adam, but because of her participation in the witness protection program, and the fears instilled in her during her 10 day ordeal as a kidnapped child, she is reluctant to give into her feelings. I think Ms Henderson did a very credible job of giving the reader a sympathetic look at Sara's world, which in its own way is just as suffocating as the dark root cellar where she and her sister, who died in the kidnapping, were left by their captors. My major criticism is that the suspense part flagged during the middle of the book, where the emphasis was more on Sara and Adam falling in love, and Sara fighting feelings she had never allowed herself to experience. I understand from friends who have read later books in the O'Malley series that the suspense is more sustained, more like mainstream books of that genre, but with the religious elements, and what is termed \\"sweet\\" romance: nothing shown beyond kissing and hugging. These are books that readers could share with their teenage daughters without any reservations.	2003-11-11
US	43252601	R2YHYXOIZ12MLU	0451208153	976461395	The Iron Rose	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Worthy Sequel to &quot;Across a Moonlit Sea&quot;	For those of us who loved &quot;Across a Moonlit Sea,&quot; &quot;The Iron Rose&quot; is indeed a worthy sequel. Simon and Beau's daughter Juliet has taken up the pirate's trade in the tradition of her parents. She is the equal of any man sailing the Spanish Main in 1614 -- she loves her life and is not bothered by the absence of a permanent man in it, until she meets Varian St Clare, an envoy of King James VI of England. Varian is on a mission to convince Juliet's father and his fellow pirates to honor a peace treaty with Spain when he is rescued from almost certain death by Juliet. As with Ms Canham's previous novels, this one contains accurate details of life aboard ship in the 17th century, and &quot;gentle readers&quot; may be off-put by some of the graphic battle scenes. Also, Ms Canham has created &quot;bad guys&quot; with few redeeming qualities, and several plot twists that kept this reader's interest from beginning to end.  Juliet is not a typical romantic heroine -- she can go for days without a bath, has had several casual lovers, and has no interest in marriage. Varian is more in the typical romantic hero mold, although more witty than most, and he does have a trick or two up his sleeve that keeps Juliet off balance. For those who hoped for more about Simon and Beau, they play fairly minor roles in this book, although there is a surprise involving the still-lovely Beau. I thoroughly enjoyed &quot;The Iron Rose,&quot; as I love pirate stories, and enjoy romance novels that are not typical of the genre. If you have similar tastes, I think you will give this highly entertaining book a place on your keeper shelf.	2003-11-02
US	43252601	RRX3EPESN2GFF	0380781484	592019319	Captive	Books	3	2	3	N	N	An Engaging Time Travel	I read this book when it was first published, and reordered it as my original copy has disappeared. Reader's reviews on this book were mixed: the most obvious flaws in the book are that the heroine is a scholar on naval warfare, but seems to be incapable of putting this knowledge to use when she finds herself transported back in time to her favorite period in history, and her overuse of the expression &quot;ohmygod!&quot; But, remember, when you read a time travel you are suspending your disbelief anyway, so I wouldn't let that keep me from reading this fine swashbuckler! The book is fast paced, has a fine secondary cast of characters, provides interesting historical details and exploration of a time and place (the Barbary Coast in the era of the famous pirates -- early 1800s) that is generally ignored by romance writers. To paraphrase what another reviewer wrote, the fact that the heroine is very human and and doesn't always know what to do in a given situation, and frequently makes incorrect decisions just makes her more endearing to me. If you like your heroines and heroes to be perfect, this is not the book for you -- but if you don't mind some rough edges on both, and want to try a different time period, I think you will enjoy &quot;Captive.&quot;	2003-10-19
US	43252601	R3TL1015RPOA6V	0451206371	723363546	Rosamund	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The first of a wonderful new series from Bertrice Small	\\"Rosamund\\" would be a wonderful introduction for readers who are unfamilar with the works of Ms Small, and a welcome addition to the library of those who believe the classic Skye O'Malley series to be among the best romance fiction produced in the last 25 years. We meet the very young heiress Rosamund at age 6 as she about to marry her second husband, chosen for her by her evil uncle, who is determined to rob her of her inheritance. From the beginning, the reader is engaged by the lively and intelligent Rosamund, her retinue of loyal relatives and servants, and the men who will play prominent roles in her early life. As usual, Ms Small displays a scholarly interest in the clothing, food, manners, economics, and morals of the time period in which the story is set -- this time Tudor England. Rosamund's experiences at the court of Henry VII, where she becomes a friend to the widowed Catherine of Aragon (and meets the future Henry VIII), and is in turn befriended by Henry's daughter Margaret, is a fascinating look at 16th century England. This book will not disappoint! The second book in the series, \\"Until You,\\" has just been released (October 2003). I rated it a 3 but it is still a fitting companion to the wonderful \\"Rosamund.\\"	2003-10-13
US	43252601	R330KUDXQWRTHI	0451209745	778365456	Until You	Books	3	18	21	N	Y	Calling all Bertrice Small fans!	\\"Until You\\" is the second in the Friarsgate Inheritance Series. It continues the story of the lovely and valiant Rosamund Bolton (\\"Rosamund\\"), who at the age of 22, and thrice a widow, finds herself truly in love for the first time -- with 50-year-old Patrick Leslie, father of the long-lost Janet Leslie (\\"The Kadin\\"). The two immediately embark on a mission for King James IV of Scotland that turns out to be less exciting than one would have thought...the mission is more of a chance for the reader to be exposed to the emotions of Rosamund and Patrick as they fall in love and deal with the knowledge that their union is not fated to last forever. Patrick's continuing sorrow over the \\"unsolved\\" mystery of his only daughter's disappearance 28 years ago is touching in the extreme. The book contains the usual Small twists and turns. The strength of Small's writing is in creating believable, mutifaceted characters and putting them in a culturally accurate setting: few of the people in her works are all bad or all good..even the most wretched of her villians has his/her story. Small pays particular attention to clothing, food, the social and cultural climate, as well as the historical settings of her works; she is careful not to give her characters 21st century, politically-correct views (for example, Rosamund truly cares for her servants, but still considers that she and her children are their \\"betters\\"). She has pushed the envelope of romance fiction for over 25 years, as her heroines tend to have several love affairs and marriages, instead of one soul mate for life, which is one of the major conventions of the romance genre. This book, and the first in the series (which I rated a 4), are well worth your time. I am looking forward to the next book, due out in October 2004.	2003-10-12
US	43252601	R17Q6LQ6R8LXH0	0671740652	197864739	Courtesan	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Haeger's Masterpiece	I agree with the reviewer from Texas who stated that this was one of the best books she had ever read. That it is a first novel is remarkable: not only does Haeger have a depth of understanding of the period, rare in many authors of romance fiction, but she is truly able to make her characters come alive.<br />\\"Courtesan\\" is the story of Diane de Poitiers and Henri II of France. Their romance began when Henri was a young prince and Diane the \\"older woman\\" beloved by Henri's father, King Francis I. It continued through Henri's marriage to the plain, and later infamous, Catherine de Medici, and was a scandal throughout France and beyond. The author skillfully recreated the world of 16th century France, especially the world of the royal court. All of the characters, both real and fictional, are presented with their flaws and virtues. While Diane is clearly the heroine of this fictional treatment, Haeger allows us to see the pain and humilation the love affair inflicted on Queen Catherine as well.<br />I think the publisher did \\"Courtesan\\" a disservice by calling it an historical romance, as I think it would be more accurate to call it an historical novel. Many romance readers do not like stories that involve adultery, especially when there is no chance that the couple can wed. This book also does not contain scenes of explicit lovemaking which many romance readers require in their novels. By calling it a romance, the publisher, perhaps unknowingly, limited the readership to women, as few men pick up books clearly labeled as \\"romances.\\" Every man whom I have talked into reading this book has been impressed by the scholarship shown by the author, and charmed by Diane. With the exception of \\"The Return,\\" Ms Haeger's later books do not IMO show the same depth as this remarkable first novel. Ms Haeger's last two books, about Maria Fitzherbert and the woman loved by General William T. Sherman, are workman-like biographical novels, but they simply do not grip the reader in the same way as \\"Courtesan.\\"the same way as \\"Courtesan.\\"	2003-02-21
