US	43282314	R1SJYSBWK3BVIX	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	uneven quality, but still well worth the read	This is the third book in Robin Hobb's superb Farseer trilogy. These are not standalone books, and you really should read the first two - _Assassin's Apprentice_ and _Royal Assassin_ - before beginning this one.  <br /> <br />Like many other reviewers, I found some things in this book disappointing. I agree with them that the solution to the Forging puzzle seemed inordinately brief, unconvincing, and unsatisfying. Hobb doesn't even bother to work it into the text, but tacks it on as a quote at the beginning of one of the last chapters. I also agree that the text of this book is not as polished as the two previous. This feels like a first or second draft, with uncharacteristic wordiness in many places. The editing feels uneven - as though some of it had been edited thoroughly, and other parts thrown in raw. In addition, there are moments when it seems to me that Hobb is almost enjoying torturing her protagonist. At times his torment seems unrealistic (if this word can have any meaning in a fantasy novel) - overstepping my own ability to suspend disbelief. Finally, this cover is the absolute worst I have ever seen on a book of this quality. It's hideous and trashy looking, and I have no idea why she allowed them to do this to her book.  <br /> <br />However, I do not agree with other reviews that the book is not worth your time. Many things about this book are as wonderful as its predecessors. I love the process Fitz undergoes at the beginning as Burrick works to separate his mind from Nighteyes - Hobb's meticulous rendering of what it means to be human and what it means to be wolf. The main characters - Fitz, Chade, Burrick, Molly, the Fool, Ketricken, and Varity - continue to grow and develop in realistic and convincing ways. The solutions to many of the puzzles are clever and pleasing. I especially enjoyed the episodes in which Fitz eludes Regal's soldiers and Coterie. I have a feeling that many readers' disappointment with this book stems less from its admitted lack of polish than from its bittersweet ending. However, Fitz has been telling us from the very first page of the very first book that his was a sad story. In some ways, it seems that the ending leaves everyone happy except Fitz. This should surprise no one, but there is plenty of sweet amid the bitter, and plenty of room for another book. <br />	2005-09-21
US	43282314	R2DMV4PXG650YW	1842120786	488806077	This War Without an Enemy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	excellent starting point	Richard Ollard's work is a great starting point for exploring the English Civil War. The text is accessible and engaging, even amusing in places, and the book is not overlong. Ollard manages, in a fairly short space, to capture many of the complexities of the war, including Charles I' charming, yet maddening personality.  <br /> <br />In addition to compact, well-written text, the book is beautiful. It contains many maps, paintings, pamphlets, and other artwork of the period, illustrating the people, battles, and issues of the war. <br /> <br />Ollard's book does have a few faults. For one thing, I think he is a bit too enamored of Clarendon. Ollard obviously has great respect for this clever statesman and justly so. However, he seems to accept some of Clarendon's statements without much analysis. It is true that Clarendon's history of the war must constitute a major source for any serious historian of the conflict. Clarendon is a firsthand witness, after all. However, he is not remotely non-biased, and he did write his history long after the completion of the war. He had personal quarrels with some of the major characters, including Rupert, and no reason to represent them fairly. Clarendon's heavy political involvement both before and after the war also makes him suspect for ulterior motives in his text. In addition, Ollard admits in several places that Clarendon was a talented propaganda man - a 17th century spin doctor. To accept his statements without analysis seems unwise. In addition to his Clarendon-worship, Ollard provides no bibliography for his book. This is a serious offense in a academic work, even one designed for lay consumption. He does, at least, acknowledge the sources for his pictures. <br /> <br />In spite of its faults, Ollard's book has much to recommend it. If you are interested in the English Civil War, this one is worth a read. <br />	2005-01-29
US	43282314	R123GKOR7UJRLY	0340209658	488806077	This War without an Enemy: History of the English Civil Wars	Books	4	2	2	N	N	an excellent starting point	Richard Ollard's work is a great starting point for exploring the English Civil War. The text is accessible and engaging, even amusing in places, and the book is not overlong. Ollard manages, in a fairly short space, to capture many of the complexities of the war, including Charles I' charming, yet maddening personality.  <br /> <br />In addition to compact, well-written text, the book is beautiful. It contains many maps, paintings, pamphlets, and other artwork of the period, illustrating the people, battles, and issues of the war. <br /> <br />Ollard's book does have a few faults. For one thing, I think he is a bit too enamored of Clarendon. Ollard obviously has great respect for this clever statesman and justly so. However, he seems to accept some of Clarendon's statements without much analysis. It is true that Clarendon's history of the war must constitute a major source for any serious historian of the conflict. Clarendon is a firsthand witness, after all. However, he is not remotely non-biased, and he did write his history long after the completion of the war. He had personal quarrels with some of the major characters, including Rupert, and no reason to represent them fairly. Clarendon's heavy political involvement both before and after the war also makes him suspect for ulterior motives in his text. In addition, Ollard admits in several places that Clarendon was a talented propaganda man - a 17th century spin doctor. To accept his statements without analysis seems unwise. In addition to his Clarendon-worship, Ollard provides no bibliography for his book. This is a serious offense in a academic work, even one designed for lay consumption. He does, at least, acknowledge the sources for his pictures. <br /> <br />In spite of its faults, Ollard's book has much to recommend it. If you are interested in the English Civil War, this one is worth a read. <br />	2005-01-29
US	43282314	R1651XV2JLX1Y5	0375826688	342317933	Eragon (Inheritance)	Books	2	17	21	N	N	an example of how _not_ to write	I would not have completed _Eragon_ if I had not wanted to write a review. (I don't think it's fair to write a review of a book one has not finished.) The finishing, though, required considerable force of will. I did not enjoy this book.<br /><br />Eragon has many faults, but I'll stick with four: first, Mr. Paolini cannot decide what kind of book he wants to write - a children's book or an adult fantasy, a story in mythic language (Tolkien style) or in the more modern fantasy traditions. His indecision produces absurd combinations of language and event. For instance, the plot of Eragon is so transparent and predictable as to be surprising only to a small child. One tends to assume, therefore, that it is a children's book. Yet the author casually tosses in a bit of dialogue in which a female elf describes how, after torture, she was given to the garrison for rape. She solved her problem by magically making her rapists impotent. The language is terse, but the meaning unmistakable. This seems a bit adult for a children's book. In addition, the narration see-saws inconsistently between mythic language and modern speech. Paolini's attempts to describe events such as the one above in grand mythic language make the writing feel almost farcical. There's another bit where he tries to grandly describe how the villain kicked the good guy \\"in the fork of the legs\\" and un-chivalrously won a fight. If Paolini was sticking to gritty, modern fantasy-style narration, or if he was intending to write a parody, this sort of thing might work. However, in his high Tolkien-esque monologues, it sounds absurd. Sadly, this sort of unintentional farce is the _only_ humor in the book.<br /><br />Problem number two: Mr. Paolini would benefit greatly from Steven's King's short, but brilliant, manual _On Writing_. I'm thinking particularly of the sentence, \\"Adverbs are not your friends.\\" I grew exceedingly weary of needless adverbs tacked onto the end of every over conversation tag, (said the reviewer irritably.)<br /><br />Problem number three: the protagonist is stupid. He is so stupid, I hated him by the end of the first chapter, and he doesn't get any brighter. The dragon is actually walking around his room before he realizes that *bing!* the \\"rock\\" was an egg! Of course, if Eragon was _supposed_ to be a half-wit or a young child, this might work. Readers don't mind figuring out events in advance of an admittedly young or stupid protagonist. However, this is not the case. In fact, everyone is continually telling Eragon how he is exceptionally bright, and he is forever discovering new and wonderful abilities that he performs better than anyone else.<br /><br />Finally, \\"show, don't tell\\" is most emphatically not a phrase in this author's vocabulary. I grew bored to tears of his endless explanations - pages and pages of dialogue in which various characters laboriously map out for Eragon the hows and wherefores of his world.<br /><br />One might ask: if I found the book so distasteful, why give it two stars instead of one? The reason is that I do think the author has some talent, though perhaps not best displayed in a novel. In fact, this book read very like the script for a King's Quest-style role playing game. In that media, I think the story might actually be quite charming, and many of the more annoying elements would not survive the transition. But for a novel...? No.<br /><br />It is, of course, possible that the writer will clean up his style in a blindingly superior manner before he writes the next book (nothing is resolved in this one), but I wouldn't count on it. Nothing short of large amounts of money could induce me to read the sequel.y.)    Problem number three: the protagonist is stupid. He is so stupid, I hated him by the end of the first chapter, and he doesn't get any brighter. The dragon is actually walking around his room before he realizes that *bing!* the \\"rock\\" was an egg! Of course, if Eragon was _supposed_ to be a half-wit or a young child, this might work. Readers don't mind figuring out events in advance of an admittedly young or stupid protagonist. However, this is not the case. In fact, everyone is continually telling Eragon how he is exceptionally bright, and he is forever discovering new and wonderful abilities that he performs better than anyone else.     Finally, \\"show, don't tell\\" is most emphatically not a phrase in this author's vocabulary. I grew bored to tears of his endless explanations - pages and pages of dialogue in which various characters laboriously map out for Eragon the hows and wherefores of his world.     One might ask: if I found the book so distasteful, why give it two stars instead of one? The reason is that I do think the author has some talent, though perhaps not best displayed in a novel. In fact, this book read very like the script for a King's Quest-style role playing game. In that media, I think the story might actually be quite charming, and many of the more annoying elements would not survive the transition. But for a novel...? No.    It is, of course, possible that the writer will clean up his style in a blindingly superior manner before he writes the next book (nothing is resolved in this one), but I wouldn't count on it. Nothing short of large amounts of money could induce me to read the sequel.	2005-01-04
US	43282314	R1OX8SRRYRMPO7	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	3	14	16	N	N	confusing the issue	First, I must say that, for all its faults, this is a book worth reading. It needed to be written, and I applaud the author for doing what she did-an attempt to support herself on minim wage jobs for a year. She shares many telling details of life among the desperately poor, including the highly questionable practices of such employers as Merry Maids and Wal-mart. She makes astute observations regarding human behavior and quality of life in this under-studied group of Americans.  <br /> <br />I do, however, have some serious gripes with Ehrenreich's book. Mainly, I feel that she weakened her own arguments by her inability to stick to her subject. Ehrenreich takes frequent detours onto topics that are not really related to being poor.  <br /> <br />Ehrenreich is, in fact, experiencing at least two kinds of culture shock in the course of her experiment. The first culture shock, which she recognizes and intends to write about, is going from her upper middle class income to at or near poverty level. The second, equally significant culture shock, of which she seems only dimly aware, is going from a self-employed journalist to a wage-earner.  <br /> <br />In order to achieve maximum impact with her book, Ehrenreich needs to stick to the topics specific to poverty, because this is what she purports to be writing about. However, she continually branches off into complaints involving issues that are true of _many_ wage-earners at all economic levels. These two states-poverty and wage earner-are _not_ the same. Ehrenreich, however, doesn't seem to make the distinction. <br />  <br />For instance, she spends considerable time griping about \\"chemically Nazi America.\\" She feels that drugs should be legalized and is very angry that she must undergo drug testing. This would, perhaps, make a suitable topic for another book, but it is _not_ an experience specific to minimum wage workers. Drug testing is very common among many classes of wage earners in America-a fact that she briefly acknowledges, but then goes right on to speak about at length. Ehrenreich is angered particularly because she has been using marijuana and must undergo a self-imposed cleansing before she can pass the test. This, again, is not an issue specific to minimum wage earners. She is confusing her issue and giving her opponents ammunition-something I find distressing, because I do sympathize with her purported topic.  <br /> <br />Another item Ehrenreich finds infuriating is that she's not allowed to curse at work. Ehrenreich does not seem to realize that, as a journalist, she is in a very linguistically privileged class of workers. Even most self-employed people can not afford to use lots of four-letter words in the course of their business day if they wish to maintain their clientele, and most wage earners at any level will find foul language frowned up at work. Journalists have a linguistic freedom that goes well beyond most other Americans at work. This is not closely related to the plight of minimum wage workers. <br /> <br />Aside from her periodic forays into matters non-poverty-related, the other serious flaw in the book is that it makes no attempt to address the most serious argument against raising minim wage-how will you keep all other costs of living from not simply escalating as well? Without at least attempting to answer this question, I feel that the book's conclusion lacks conviction and punch. This is too bad, because the topic is important, and the observations in the book are worth reading-so long readers are willing to sift the material with a critical eye. <br />	2004-12-28
US	43282314	R218F00JZVIJTD	0439531640	208757740	Inkheart	Books	3	8	10	N	N	a book that could-have-been	Let me say first that this book is set up for a sequel, and if that sequel should appear, I will probably read it. I liked the book enough to do that. In fact, I liked many things about this book. The beginning was wonderfully mysterious (in a _Wrinkle in Time_ sort of way). Funke has a lovely prose style, and I particularly enjoyed her delectable descriptions of the books themselves-their paper, their bindings, their ink. She gets points of likeable characters and a plot that really could have been wonderful. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, that's as far as the book went for me-a could-have-been. This book is fundamentally flawed in several respects. One is that, for me at least, the author simply failed to deliver on her mystery. She set up a very tense, mysterious beginning, and I felt like she made \\"promises\\" to the reader that weren't kept-solutions to problems that just weren't as clever as she hinted they would be.  <br /> <br />Another problem were the characters. Another reviewer has commented that they seem flat, and that is so. They seem lacking in some essential quality that would make them truly sympathetic. I think what they lack is proper motivation for _everything_ they do. I think part of the reason for this lies in the book that is the central focus for Funke's story.  <br /> <br />Supposedly, most of these characters stepped into our world out of a book called_Ink Heart_. They come with pre-conceived jealousies, hates, loves, and motives, so it is rather important who they were before they came. Amazingly, at no point in Funke's story are we told what the PLOT of Ink Heart was. Yes, we are told a few events from the story, and of course we meet the characters. However, random events and characters do not a plot make. There is no good reason why this should be. Moe has read the book cover to cover many times, he tells us. It seems the most natural thing on earth for Meggie or her aunt to ask for a synopsis at any number of points in the story. The plotof Ink Heart would have rather important ramifications for all sorts of reasons, yet it never seems to occur to anyone to ask. In vain I waited for this vital piece of information, until at last I concluded that Funke herself didn't know-that she had apparently never been bothered to come up with it. That is (and I am sorry to say this) lazy, and it makes the characters' actions and motives feel strained and unnatural, especially as one nears the end of the book. <br /> <br />Finally, I must say that the book (Funke's book, not the _Ink Heart_ of the story) has several glaring plot holes itself. For instance, in order to read characters in and out of books, the reader is supposed to have to swap something from this world for something from theirs. This point is rather essential to the whole plot of Funke's story; it's how all the trouble started. However, part way through the book, this swap just seems to stop. Suddenly characters can be read out, and nobody goes in, and our heroes don't even question the sudden change in the rules of the game.  <br /> <br />I could talk about the cloyingly sweet ending, the fact that we leave everyone pretty much the same person they were when we met them (no character-changes here), or the lose ends left dangling to obviously that if a sequel does not appear, one may assume Funke has died... But I won't. As I said, I would read a sequel, so obviously there were some things I found redeeming about this book. It is very far from five stars, though. <br />	2004-11-04
US	43282314	R278F2LW4YZGM8	0394725360	111847135	I, Claudius	Books	5	8	9	N	N	great into to the history of the roman empire	A wonderful book. _I, Claudius_ chronicles the reign of the Caesars in Rome from the perspective of the 4th Caesar. Julius is dead by the time Claudius is born, but our hero is intimately acquainted with Augustus and his wife Livia, Tiberius, and finally Caligula. Claudius plays the fool and manages to survive these turbulent years of Rome's history, filled with poisonings, treachery, and the deaths of many honest men and women. Especially during Caligula's reign, Claudius lives on a knife's edge, fearful everyday for his life, playing along with the mad emperor and trying to prevent him from doing Rome irreversible damage. <br />Stunted from birth, Claudius is a sickly, stuttering child and young man. Ironically, this is the only thing that saves him. Most of his family believes he is an imbecile too unimportant to kill. Ignored by Augustus and Tiberius, tormented by his mother and by Livia, Claudius managed his last hurdle by entertaining Caligula with pert quotes from Homer and flattery. Claudius is a scholar-the only pastime he can manage in his crippled body. His knowledge of history serves him well during this period, providing him with examples from the past to guide his actions during a frightening childhood and youth. <br />The book follows him up to the point of Caligula's death when Claudius finds himself suddenly the only surviving Caesar, hurled into the office by a dangerous mob of soldiers. He makes his peace with the senate and begins his long reign. <br />Robert Graves tells the story in first person and provides the necessary guesswork details of Claudius's thoughts and feelings. However, the story is historical in its facts and details. This is a wonderful interdiction to the early history of the Roman empire.	2003-08-08
US	43282314	R1OO52O3EAAU5U	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	a great intro to the roman empire	A wonderful book. _I, Claudius_ chronicles the reign of the Caesars in Rome from the perspective of the 4th Caesar. Julius is dead by the time Claudius is born, but our hero is intimately acquainted with Augustus and his wife Livia, Tiberius, and finally Caligula. Claudius plays the fool and manages to survive these turbulent years of Rome's history, filled with poisonings, treachery, and the deaths of many honest men and women. Especially during Caligula's reign, Claudius lives on a knife's edge, fearful everyday for his life, playing along with the mad emperor and trying to prevent him from doing Rome irreversible damage. <br />Stunted from birth, Claudius is a sickly, stuttering child and young man. Ironically, this is the only thing that saves him. Most of his family believes he is an imbecile too unimportant to kill. Ignored by Augustus and Tiberius, tormented by his mother and by Livia, Claudius managed his last hurdle by entertaining Caligula with pert quotes from Homer and flattery. Claudius is a scholar-the only pastime he can manage in his crippled body. His knowledge of history serves him well during this period, providing him with examples from the past to guide his actions during a frightening childhood and youth. <br />The book follows him up to the point of Caligula's death when Claudius finds himself suddenly the only surviving Caesar, hurled into the office by a dangerous mob of soldiers. He makes his peace with the senate and begins his long reign. <br />Robert Graves tells the story in first person and provides the necessary guesswork details of Claudius's thoughts and feelings. However, the story is historical in its facts and details. This is a wonderful interdiction to the early history of the Roman empire.	2003-08-08
US	43282314	R3LIXTXK1L95YR	0394800923	328733059	I Had Trouble in Getting to Solla Sollew	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	my favorite dr. seuss	As a child, someone read this book to me only once, and I looked for it ever afterward. It seemed more magical, somehow, than all the other Doctor Sues books. In college, I stumbled across it again and bought it. Its still one of my favoritesa great pick-me-up if youre feeling beat, definitely good for college students. <br />The story is about a fellow who has troubles  and so goes looking for the beautiful city of Solla Sollew, on the banks of the beautiful river wha-hoo, where they never have troubles, at least very few! Well, as you can imagine, he has a terrible time getting to Solla Sollewflood ands wars and wild beastsand when he finally gets there, he discovers that the advantages of Solla Sollew have been somewhat exaggerated. He ends up going back home with a new attitude. The story isnt any different than many similar stories, but the rhymes are particularly lyrical, the artwork particularly funny. I pull it out every few months and read it, and I laugh every time.	2003-07-31
US	43282314	R3DWEZ4SY40CWW	0152802177	986840448	Stellaluna	Books	5	1	1	N	N	funny and beautiful	Stellaluna is perhaps my favorite picture book ever written! This is the story of a baby fruit bat who is separated from her mother when a hawk attacks them. She falls into a nest of baby birds and ends up being raised as a bird. She tries to teach the baby birds to hang from their feet (an amusing picture). When this makes mamma bird VERY angry, Stellaluna tries to learn to perch like a bird. She cringes and gulps down insects and flies during the day. She becomes good friends with her bird siblings. Finally she is rediscovered by the fruit bats. She then learns that she is a bat, not a bird, and her strange habits are just fine for a bat. <br />The drawings are gorgeous and frequently hilarious. Lots of little things make the book memorable. For instance, I had read it several times before I noticed that small pencil drawings at the top of each page depict mother bat looking EVERYWHERE for Stellaluna even while she is being raised by the birds. There are lots of little things to notice and laugh at, and even though I don't have a child, I certainly think children would enjoy the book.	2003-07-31
US	43282314	RCHFP88D4HGVZ	0521447704	245321926	The Printing Revolution in Early Modern Europe	Books	4	24	26	N	N	the last 2 chapters were my favorite	This is an excellent book to read if you are interested in the history of printing. Eisenstein's thesis is that the advent of the printing press is the most logical point at which the medieval period of European history ends and the Renaissance begins.  She shows how many so-called innovations in science, religion, and politics were directly related to the ready availability of books-not necessarily to increased brilliance on the part of mankind.<br />Eisenstein disagrees with scholars who point to the lag between the press and the beginning of the Renaissance as proof that the press did not make an appreciable difference. Books, Eisenstein says, had to accumulate in order to make their presence felt. The lag was due to a sort of scholarly catch-up. First the printers rushed to issue the volumes that many people wanted but had been unable to afford previously. Once those were printed, disparities could become apparent. Scribes freed from the tedious process of copying books had the leisure to notice errors and disagreements among authors which had not been apparent when books were scattered and rare. This process caused a deceptive lag between the advent of the press and real improvements in cartography and science. <br />The last two chapters of the book were the most interesting to me. Among other things, Eisenstein talks about the way early Protestant printers beefed out their catalogues by referring to the Catholic Index (the list of books forbidden by the Pope). Once Europe became split into Catholic and Protestant nations, the Index had the unexpected effect of boosting sales for books listed on the Index, making some protestant printers their fortunes. Not only were Protestants eager to read whatever the Pope had banned (and Catholic priests obligingly cited chapter and line of objectionable material, with the result that the protestant scholars were able to cut right to the chase), but many early scientific books on the Index were much sought after in Catholic countries, and with their printers under heavy pressure to forbear, Protestant printers just over the border made a fortune in black-market books.<br />Eisenstein's style is somewhat pedantic (which was to be expected; this is a thesis, after all). However, I give the book 4 stars instead of 5 because quotes are frequently uncited-a nearly unforgivable sin in a research book. We are frequently given rather large blocks of quoted text with absolutely no way of connecting this material to any given authors in the bibliography. The fact that the book is an abridgement is no excuse.	2003-07-31
US	43282314	R16AMXXZZ2IWDY	0152802177	986840448	Stellaluna	Books	5	1	1	N	N	funny and beautiful	Stellaluna is perhaps my favorite picture book ever written! This is the story of a baby fruit bat who is separated from her mother when a hawk attacks them. She falls into a nest of baby birds and ends up being raised as a bird. She tries to teach the baby birds to hang from their feet (an amusing picture). When this makes mamma bird VERY angry, Stellaluna tries to learn to perch like a bird. She cringes and gulps down insects and flies during the day. She becomes good friends with her bird siblings. Finally she is rediscovered by the fruit bats. She then learns that she is a bat, not a bird, and her strange habits are just fine for a bat. <br />The drawings are gorgeous and frequently hilarious. Lots of little things make the book memorable. For instance, I had read it several times before I noticed that small pencil drawings at the top of each page depict mother bat looking EVERYWHERE for Stellaluna even while she is being raised by the birds. There are lots of little things to notice and laugh at, and even though I don't have a child, I certainly think children would enjoy the book.	2003-07-31
US	43282314	R1NTYG9ZHRBH39	0521477352	733825607	The Discarded Image: An Introduction to Medieval and Renaissance Literature (Canto)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	fascinating, readable, superior scholarship	This is one of Lewis's more difficult-to-find academic works. However, if you find it and read it, you will not be disappointed. I read the book on my own initiative while taking a master's class in Medieval literature. I probably learned as much from his book as I did from the whole class, and it opened up countless delightful possibilities for future enquiry. It also gave me a great idea for my final paper, which I'd been lacking the inspiration to write.<br />What's more, this work is still respected in academia. Recently I was reading a Cambridge thesis on the subject of early printing (The Printing Revolution in Early Modern Europe by Elizabeth L. Eisenstein) and came across a quote from _The Discarded Image_ (an uncited quote, which was annoying, but that's another story). Eisenstein quotes most authors in order to disagree with them, but she didn't disagree with Lewis (added to him, qualified him, but didn't disagree), which was unusual. Lewis was one of the few authors in her field that Eisenstein did not attack! I also passed _The Discarded Image_ along to one of my previous college professors and he decided to include ideas from it in his Survey of English Literature course.<br />If you want to know how medieval men and women saw their world-their belief in supernatural beings intermediate between angels and devils, their admiration for all kinds of organization, their heavy reliance on the snippet of Plato to which they had access-read this book. You will never see the Middle Ages quite the same way again.	2003-07-17
US	43282314	R34R1ODOTGJ7D1	055357342X	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	best of the best	In this book, Martin continues the saga he started in _A Game of Thrones_. Caution: If you have not read _A Game of Thrones_, start there. This series is contiguous, and you will spoil things for yourself if you don't read the books in order.<br />That said, if there are ever textbooks written for fantasy literature, George R.R. Martin's _Song of Fire and Ice_ series (or some part of it) will be included. The writing is brilliant. Each word counts. Phrases that are supposed to be witty actually ARE. Events that promise to surprise you DO. Characters who are supposed to be clever do genuinely clever things. In addition, Martin produces countless unique turns of phrase with the casual ease of a master.   <br />As for plot, these books represent the very best of a budding genre. To call the series high fantasy and compare it to Tolkien is not quite fair. Tolkien based his work on myth. Martin bases his primarily on history, and his work should properly be called a fantihistorical. Although the series has elements of myth, the most astonishing facts are nearly always historical. The Targarian habit of marrying brother to sister to preserve the bloodlines, for instance, was practiced by the Egyptian pharaohs. You will actually learn real things about history if you pay attention in this series. Martin's meticulous details are dazzling-types of cloth and food, details of trade and political agreements, a proper proportion of elderly, mentally ill, and sickly people in society, and realistic process of infection from wounds. His medicines are also well-researched, many of them used in some society at some time. <br />_A Storm of Swords_ is every bit as good as the other two books. The tension just builds and builds. Any hint of the contents would spoil something for you, but I think I can say without giving away any secrets that the addition of Jamie Lanister's viewpoint gives a very interesting tange to the story (believe it or not, he's now one of my favorite characters), and that several well-known characters die in this one. Martin has an absolute genius for making nearly all of his characters round and sympathetic. Even the ones we want dead are sympathetic, though that doesn't stop us from wanting them dead. Martin shows clearly that all of  his characters, both good and bad, have suffered and have excuses for being cruel and bitter. His good characters, however, choose to remain honorable and ethical, while his bad characters allow themselves to become corrupt. Choice is the key. However, we see clearly that all of them have reasons (if not excuses) for what they have become.<br />Now... Read, read, read!	2003-07-17
US	43282314	R1S4A7DGMHV41A	0061059064	694992048	Jingo (Discworld)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	one of his best!	This is one of my favorite Pratchett books! If you've never read Terry Pratchett before: Welcome to a thinly veiled version of London in which social classes and races are represented by various fanatic creatures: gargoyles, humans, trolls, dwarves, etc.-all trying to live together and get along. Uberwald is Germany. Klatch is something like the near east. You'll recognize other places. Disc World is basically earth with London at the center and a few weird twists.<br />For those who are familier with Pratchett: This is one of the books featuring the Night Watch, but it's a somewhat mixed media performance with a lot from the Patrician (who is my favorite) and Lenard of Querm, also a bit from the wizards. A mysteries island rises out of the sea and both Klatch and Ank-morpork claim ownership. Some people in each country are willing to go to war over the island...but do they have ulterior motives? <br />In the confusion of a visit from the Klachian prince, Angua is kidnapped (want to know how to kidnap a werewolf? Read the book!) and the whole Watch sets off after her to Klatch, where they unravel a cunning conspiracy. The book has plenty of depth, makes a number of valid points about war, politics, racial prejudice (both prejudice against a minority race AND prejudice in favor of a minority race), and is just superior all-round storytelling. This is one of the few Pratchett's I've read twice.	2003-07-17
US	43282314	R2ZW15XN1TPYWJ	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	light reading; very different from Harry P.	A charming little book! I read it in one sitting, and it wasn't at all what I expected. For one thing, these have been sold along side the Harry Potter books and this one, at least, had no magic in it. On the contrary, it was very down-to-earth. The children's solutions to their problems did not seem particularly far-fetched. Although the books are \\"dark\\" in some ways, they do not teach a helpless outlook. On the contrary, the kids usually solves their problems by either reading books (law books, in this case) or by using their minds to come up with technological solutions. Their plans are frequently thwarted, and they have to start over again, but they don't give up.<br />The plot is simple: three orphaned kids must deal with a malevolent guardian who's after their money. The fun part is the witty, entertaining prose. My only criticism is that frequent explanations of word meanings get old. As a child, I derived most of my word definitions from context and figured things out quite neatly. This author stops the dialogue to define words, which is cute the first few times and gets a little annoying towards the end. However, this is a children's book, and perhaps children like that sort of thing. At any rate, I will definitely read the second one.	2003-07-17
US	43282314	R3056OFXV4LTCR	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	simply the best	If there are ever textbooks written for fantasy literature, this book (or a part of it) will be included. The writing is brilliant. Each word counts. Phrases that are supposed to be witty actually ARE. Events that promise to surprise you DO. Characters who are supposed to be clever do genuinely clever things. In addition, Martin produces countless unique turns of phrase with the casual ease of a master.<br />As for plot, this book represents the very best of a budding genre. To call the book high fantasy and compare it to Tolkien is not quite fair. Tolkien based his work on myth. Martin bases his primarily on history, and his work should properly be called a fantihistorical. Although the series has elements of myth, the most astonishing facts are nearly always historical. The Targarian habit of marrying brother to sister to preserve the bloodlines, for instance, was practiced by the Egyptian pharaohs. You will actually learn real things about history if you pay attention in this series. Martin's meticulous details are dazzling-types of cloth and food, details of trade and political agreements, a proper proportion of elderly, mentally ill, and sickly people in society, and realistic process of infection from wounds. His medicines are also well-researched, many of them used in some society at some time.<br />Many of these elements are not apparent at the beginning of the story. Perhaps intentionally, Martin throws the reader off the scent in the prologue. Although the book contains magical events, they are rare. So rare, in fact, that when they occur, the reader may find herself skeptical, looking for a logical explanation and wondering if Martin really means us to believe magic is afoot.<br />Like a skilled swordfighter, Martin is constantly weaving and ducking our guesses. He frequently starts a typical thread of plotting, only to turn the whole thing on its ear and take the story in an unexpected direction. And he does all this as naturally and skillfully as a dancer. If you enjoy fantasy, history, or just really good writing, this book is a must-read.<br />...and I dare you to read this one and not read the next two! Only one word of caution: this book and the next two are really all one story with no major break. _A Storm of Swords_ ends in a cliff-hanger where you'll be waiting with the rest of us on pins and needles. If you're very impatient, you should perhaps wait for the series to be completed before you begin.dancer. If you enjoy fantasy, history, or just really good writing, this book is a must-read. <br />...and I dare you to read this one and not read the next two! Only one word of caution: this book and the next two are really all one story with no major break. _A Storm of Swords_ ends in a cliff-hanger where you'll be waiting with the rest of us on pins and needles. If you're very impatient, you should perhaps wait for the series to be completed before you begin.	2003-07-16
US	43282314	R1Y3UN046DPOJY	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	learn and laugh...and laugh...and laugh...and laugh...	Bryson is my favorite travel writer, and this is my favorite of his books. It is hilarious, gives quantities of interesting information about Australia, and is much cleaner than his early books (the profanity and sexual jokes are kept to a minimum, though they're not completely absent). <br />Bryson's wit is as razor sharp as ever, identifying countless charming (and not so charming) idiosyncrasies in the Australian national personality and displaying them for our inspection. His research for this book was copious. He culls from it the most interesting details of Australian history and culture for his text. You will both learn and laugh. The description of his sleeping through a personal tour because of jet jag made me laugh until I cried. My dad read the book aloud, and we nearly laughed ourselves sick. This is a keeper.	2003-07-16
US	43282314	R3CYEJQL5O10LX	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	simply the best	In this book, Martin continues the saga he started in _A Clash of Kings_. Caution: If you have not read _A Game of Thrones_, start there. This series is contiguous, and you will spoil things for yourself if you don't read the books in order.<br />That said, if there are ever textbooks written for fantasy literature, George R.R. Martin's _Song of Fire and Ice_ series (or some part of it) will be included. The writing is brilliant. Each word counts. Phrases that are supposed to be witty actually ARE. Events that promise to surprise you DO. Characters who are supposed to be clever do genuinely clever things. In addition, Martin produces countless unique turns of phrase with the casual ease of a master.   <br />As for plot, these books represent the very best of a budding genre. To call the series high fantasy and compare it to Tolkien is not quite fair. Tolkien based his work on myth. Martin bases his primarily on history, and his work should properly be called a fantihistorical. Although the series has elements of myth, the most astonishing facts are nearly always historical. The Targarian habit of marrying brother to sister to preserve the bloodlines, for instance, was practiced by the Egyptian pharaohs. You will actually learn real things about history if you pay attention in this series. Martin's meticulous details are dazzling-types of cloth and food, details of trade and political agreements, a proper proportion of elderly, mentally ill, and sickly people in society, and realistic process of infection from wounds. His medicines are also well-researched, many of them used in some society at some time. <br />_A Clash of Kings_ is every bit as good as the first book. The tension just builds and builds. Any hit of the contents would spoil something for you, but I think I can say without giving away any secrets that a few viewpoint characters are added, and at least one viewpoint character killed. <br />Now... Read, read, read!	2003-07-16
US	43282314	R1S5EQ33P5BSPM	0253341493	845721102	Nuremberg in the Sixteenth Century: City Politics and Life Between Middle Ages and Modern Times	Books	5	5	5	N	N	chapter 5 is the best part	A book should be judged by whether it achieves it's apparent purpose. The purpose of this book is to give a detailed account of life in Germany in the 1500's, and Strauss does so with meticulous detail. His writing is academic, but not wasteful. He makes his points with skill and precision and provides numerous examples. For this, he receives 5 stars. <br />That said, the book is extremely dull. I read it as research on 1600th century life, and I am glad that I did, but it is not what I would call \\"entertaining.\\" The long descriptions of the town's political system, council meetings, attitudes of the burgers, etc. were great sleepy-time material. Most of the text is strictly reference/ research quality writing (which, to be fair, is exactly what the book purports to be).<br />One exception is Chapter 5, \\"Daily Life and Work.\\" If you read no other section of the book, read this one. Aside from the morbidly fascinating descriptions of public executions and torture, this part contains surprising details about the cleanliness of a 16th century German town. Not only the city streets, but the citizens themselves were very clean. Public bathes provided the equivalent of a steam, scrub, and message, and nearly every ordinary citizen received this treatment at least once a week. Workers usually received not only their wages, but something called \\"bath money\\" expressly for this purpose, and the Council manipulated the system to keep the price low and within reach of all but the very poorest. Other details of housing and upkeep of public property also surprised me. The whole book was worth reading for that one chapter.	2003-07-15
US	43282314	RWXP4NXAL5NHK	0380818191	476581890	The Truth (Discworld)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	one of my favorites! also great place to start the series	This is one of my favorite Pratchett. Otto, a vampire who endures the pain of bright lights for his love of photography ,is perhaps the most charming and hilarious of the cast. If you've never read Terry Pratchett before, this is a reasonable place to begin. Welcome to a thinly veiled version of London in which social classes and races are represented by various fanatic creatures: gargoyles, humans, trolls, dwarves, etc.-all trying to live together and get along. Uberwald is Germany. Klatch is something like the near east. You'll recognize other places. Disc World is basically earth with London at the center and a few weird twists.<br />For those who are familier with Pratchett: This is one of a few rare chances to see Vimes from the outside (so to speak). He's in this one, but he's not the mane character. Otherwise, it's a mixed media performance. The Night Watch is around, but they don't star. A newspaper reporter whom we've not met before is the main character. The talking dog puts in an appearance, and we get to see more of the wacky gang that lives under the bridge-the duck man, Foul Old Ron, and Andrews (a multiple personality). The plot has lots of twists, including two exceptionally multidimensional villains. Pratchett's experiment with the nature of swearing, using only \\"*ing,\\" is brilliant.	2003-07-15
US	43282314	RBQXRYUNO9T90	0679435824	601835602	Poetry for Cats: The Definitive Anthology of Distinguished Feline Verse	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	brilliant!	Henry Beard has both a good knowledge of the original poems and of cats. His spoofs are tremendously clever, and he chooses the most common poems in English literature, so most people will recognize them. I laughed myself nearly sick. It's as good as jogging! ;-)	2003-07-14
US	43282314	R38U3XR3C01ILF	0061031321	461879486	Thief of Time (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a bit different than his others, still lots of fun	Great classic Pratchett! This is one of the DEATH stories. I give it 4 stars only because it wasn't quite as good (for me) as some of his other ones. Against any other humorous fantasy author, it would get a 5.<br />In _Thief of Time_ theories about time and space are brilliantly woven into the oddest imaginable case of mistaken identity. You may have heard of the Tibetan-like Time Monks? Well, you're about to get a good look at them! Prepare to battle the Auditors of the universe in a bizarre apocalypse in which Death and his daughter are the only hope for mankind. The best part is the interplay between Death and Susan and her attempts to do his job. Also, the hilarious four horseman and the mysterious fifth. Caution: Pratchett gets a little sacrilegious in this one; he takes it right to the edge, anyway.	2003-07-14
US	43282314	R4Q6EJ0SULEPR	0826412262	351649914	Sacred Cows and Golden Geese: The Human Cost of Experiments on Animals	Books	5	28	34	N	Y	best book on the subject--clear, cold-blooded logic	This book stands virtually alone as a well-reasoned defense against vivisection (a.k.a. animal research). The authors make no appeals to emotion. They do not deny that animal research is sometimes cruel. However, compassion and cruelty have nothing to do with their argument.  <br />Greek and Greek-a medical doctor/ veterinary team-argue that animal research hurts people. They point out the countless ways in which animals differ from humans. Veterinarians know that, although the same drugs are used in multiple species, these drugs behave differently and achieve different results in different kinds of animals. Mammals are alike only on the level of gross anatomy. Biochemically, even rats and mice differ enormously, to say nothing of humans and mice. <br />Tracing the history of western medicine, Greek and Greek show how animal models for disease became part of the expected protocol. They show how these models have hindered doctors and scientists far more than they have helped. They point out that nearly all major breakthroughs in medicine have been initiated not by study in animal models, but by autopsy and clinical studies. Careful observation of human beings by doctors and caretakers has, time and again, led to medical breakthroughs which are later \\"confirmed\\" or \\"substantiated\\" by animals research. The vivisectionists then claim the laurels for these discoveries when the animals were, in fact, superfluous. Greek and Greek also point out the tremendous harm that animal models have caused. Such models lead to a sense of false confidence that drugs will not be harmful or that the risk is low. In fact, the recall rate for drugs is 50%. Fifty percent have adverse, unexpected side affects after they are loosed on a population that has trusted in animal models. 50% is the toss of a coin! Millions upon millions of dollars are poured into animal tests yearly. <br />In addition, animal models have slowed the recall of harmful drugs. Thalidomide is one of many examples. Thisdrug causes hideous birth defects in humans, but no birth defects in rats, mice, most rabbits, guinea pigs, and other animals. Doctors realized that the drug was causing birth defects and warned the company, but thalidomide could not be recalled until an animal model was found in which the drug caused birth defects! So thalidomide remained on the market, causing children to be born with flippers, until an obscure species of rabbit was found who also produced deformed kits when given the drug. Only then could thalidomide be recalled!<br />Greek and Greek show how the idea of the animal model is based on greed and bureaucracy, not good science. They explain that, while scientists of the past were primarily wealthy people doing a hobby they enjoyed, today's scientists are required to continually produce statistically significant results in order to keep their jobs. Just to graduate with a PhD requires a candidate to perform meaningful research. Under these conditions, the temptation to reach for something quick, easy, and difficult-to-disprove are enormous. Rats and mice fit the bill. They breed rapidly, are easy to house, and it takes a long time to show that the result of research in rats does not actually have any useful application for human beings. Clinical students in human beings, on the other hand, can take decades. In addition, human beings are far less corporative than rats, and there are limits to what you can legally do to them and what they will allow you to do. The catch, of course, is that clinical studies in human beings actually produce useful results, whereas animal models very often lead nowhere. Yet university professors anxious to keep their jobs and young students desperate to get their degrees continue to reach again and again for cheap and easy research models. In addition, huge companies manufacture expensive equipment for miniature surgeries on rats, dogs, cats, birds, mice, monkeys, goats, guinea pigs, rats, and all manner of other beasts. These creatures require all manner of housing, some of it vary expensive, and human-type surgeries on them require very specialized and expensive instruments. Animal models are a multimillion dollar industry.<br />With today's technology, even many clinical studies could be circumvented by using invetro methods. Human cells can be cultivated on a Petri dish or in a test tube and then exposed to various drugs. There is no reason to keep using the clumsy and inaccurate barometer of four-legged creatures.<br />Greek and Greek fill much of their book with one example after another. Their research is superb. I began the book as a skeptic and ended it as a believer. I have a degree in biology, and I could find nothing wrong with their research. I passed the book on to one of my college biology professors. He was impressed and decided to start including the material in his ethics course.<br />Whether you are a member of the medical community or merely a consumer, I strongly recommend this book. Whether you agree with all of the Greeks' conclusions or not, they certainly make some valid points and have taken pains with their research. Read the book.	2003-07-14
US	43282314	R5K3UT1HQCCC6	1883937388	469497244	Hittite Warrior (Living History Library)	Books	3	115	127	N	Y	Nice story, lousy writing	The basic idea and plot of this book is really neat. The story is set in the Biblical time of the Judges before Israel had a king. We are introduced to a Hittite youth living in the Mediterranean about the time that Greeks, particularly those from Crete, were gaining ascendancy. The Hittites as a people are conquered and become fugitives. Our protagonist flees  first to the Phoenicians and then into the hills of Judea, where he meets Deborah, the prophetess, and Berek, the Israelite general who is to defeat Sisera. He ends up fighting in the battle on the wrong side, but eventually marries a Israelite woman and settles down in the area.<br />On the way, we are introduced to all kinds of Hittite, Phoenician, Israelite, and Canaanite customs. We learn about their dress, their gods (particularly the dreadful Moloch), their methods of fighting, their habits of enslaving captive peoples, and so on. The book has obviously been carefully researched, and the plot is plausible and interesting.<br />I give the book three stars because the writing is terrible. The fact that the book is for children does not excuse this. Sentences are frequently awkward in construction, and the book reads like a first draft. For instance, the writer will say something like, \\"The warrior rushed towards me, and I hit him with a stick that I had picked up several moments ago before he attacked me.\\" That's a paraphrase, but you see what I mean. Why on earth weren't we told about the stick BEFORE the warrior rushed towards him? It's as thought the writer just thought of the weapon, and instead of putting the event in it's proper place, she flings it in as an afterthought. This kind of sloppy editing occurs throughout the text. As imaginative fiction, it's great, but this book is NOT a good example for kids to follow in style, editing, or structure.	2003-07-12
US	43282314	R1YDBYMFAE0AB5	0142001619	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Take this book with a grain of . . . . .	The history of a mineral...from ancient times to modern. This ought to be a boring book, right? But it isn't. The reason _Salt_ has received many poor reviews is not because it's boring. It's because it's full of mistakes.<br />To give this book 3 stars is charitable, but I DID enjoy large portions of the text and I learned some fascinating things. _Salt_ is a great starting point for research. If you read the book, you will almost certainly find interesting facts that you did not know before. However, before you quote these facts or commit yourself to them in print, be SURE to double check them in qualified sources, because, as other readers have noted, this book is riddled with errors. <br />To identify and discuss all these errors would probably require a book the size of _Salt_. I'll cite one good example here. Kurlansky criticizes Marco Polo for not mentioning the Chinese practice of minting paper money. It just so happened that I was reading Marco Polo alongside _Salt_, and Polo does in fact discuss Chinese paper money at length! Kurlansky's claim is simply not true. To further confuse matters, Kurlansky  makes the claim after a list and discussion of legitimate Polo omissions. But he caps this discussion with the claim that Polo doesn't mention paper money, which is patently false. Polo more than mentions it. He mentions which towns use it and which towns don't and talks about it on and off for chapters.<br />So what is going on? To be fair, there are various manuscripts of Marco Polo's in existence, and I have only read one. Scholars believe that some of them were enlarged upon by the monks who copied them. Does Kurlansky  perhaps have reason to believe that the \\"truest\\" version of Polo does not mention the paper money? If so, his decision to leave out this fact was at best presumptuous. At the least, he should have mentioned that only some manuscripts neglect the money. Instead, he made himself look a fool-as though he just didn't bother to read the book hecited. <br />Anyway, this is an example of the kind of thing he does over and over again. If you actually know something about the subject, you find he's not shooting straight. To be fair, many of these errors seem to occur when he's wandering off on a tangent. When he's sticking to his subject, he seems to hit nearer the mark. Still, his facts ought always to be double-checked. If you have the time and are sufficiently interested, read the book and double check anything you wish to cite. If you don't have lots of extra time, find another source.	2003-07-11
US	43282314	R2XXKDMT0QDE38	0140020837	493410804	The Whispering Land	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	a great book by one of the best zoologist authors ever	A charming little book about an animal collecting trip in South America. Durrell paints both an enchanting picture both of the Argentine people and of the flora and fauna of the country. He encounters vampire bats, a puma, and many birds. He rescues an ocelot from a cruel local owner who is starving the cat and convinces a baby Geoffrey's cat to eat by pairing it with a lovable tabby kitten who sets the example and provides it with company. <br />Durrell was one of the first naturalists to develop the notion of captive breeding to ensure the survival of endangered species. He obviously cares deeply about the animals that he collects and goes to extra ordinary lengths to make them happy and keep them healthy. His descriptions of caring for a sick taper, even sleeping beside her to comfort her, are delightful. His wrangle with custom's officials are amusing, and his description of a plain trip in Argentina is particularly hilarious. <br />Also, Durrell's tireless work and observations were sometimes the first and best studies into how to care for these animals in captivity. When possible, he takes his specimens from private owners, rather than taking them from the wild. People like Durrell were not responsible for the endangerment of these animals. He worked for the salvation of many species and was probably responsible for the continued survival of some today.	2003-07-11
US	43282314	RUCE9ODUA4RFB	0394751043	464300482	The King Must Die: A Novel	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	exquisite	Mary Renault's historical fiction is, perhaps, the best ever written, and this book is the cream of the crop. The storytelling is brilliant, and the writing itself is exquisite, almost poetry in places.<br />Here is the story of Theseus as it might have actually taken place-his boyhood in a provincial Greek town, his quest to find his father in Athens, his rise to princehood, his enslavement to the Cretans, and his fiery life among the bull dancers in The Labyrinth, Knossos, the seat of King Minos. Theseus's story is a pre-Iliad legend. This is the story of the man who may have been Achilles' hero.<br />Renault milks the legend and the historical material for every scrap of cohesive storyline and fills in the gaps with superb insight and truly clever inventions. Her Theseus is a meticulously rendered flesh and blood human being, and the whole culture of ancient Greece comes gloriously to life under her pen. You will want to go to Knossos after you read this book and see the bull dances painted there on the old walls. This is a story that gets into your blood, under your skin. <br />Renault also brings out the cultural struggle between notions of sky gods and earth gods. Theseus believes himself to be the son of Pseidon and is bound by honor and traits of character to the sky gods. He has a smoldering feud with the goddess who would become Aphrodite and all she stood for and a deep love of the goddess who would become Athena and all she stood for. No conclusively supernatural events enter Renault's tail. She leaves possibilities open, but primarily uses ideas of religion to show the struggles going on in the culture and in the mind of her protagonist. She also brings out the full horror of the maenads, the female cult of Dianesis so savage that the Romans later banned them. Everything that is best and worst about ancient Greece finds some representation in this story, which is in fact only the first half of Theseus's life. Renault finishes her tail in The Bull From the Sea, which is an equally stunning, though much sadder, performance.	2003-07-10
US	43282314	R2NJ2TQIE18J5R	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	2	4	4	N	N	textbook with a plot	If you want to learn a whole lot about mass tort litigation, this is an excellent starting point. The writing is digestible, mildly entertaining, and thoroughly believable.<br />However, if you want a good yarn along with your education (which is what most readers have come to expect from Grisham), pick up a different book. <br />The blurb on the dusk jacket is thoroughly misleading. This is not a story about a burned out young lawyer's uncovery of a conspiracy. On the contrary, the conspiracy appears and disappears very early in the novel, and while you keep expecting closure, you never get it.  <br />Max Pace, the mysterious mover and shaker of the book, is never explained or even fully identified with a real name. He repeatedly delivers insider tips to our protagonist and finally vanishes without a trace. I kept waiting for the \\"so what?\\" of the book, and it just didn't happen.<br />Furthermore, I did not find a single major character in the story sympathetic. The lawyer protagonist is a man with just enough conscience to feel really bad, but not enough of a backbone to turn down money in order to do the right thing. Rebecca, the love interest, is a completely unsurprising, flat character. I kept waiting for either of them to do something that would make me care what happens to them, and they didn't. <br />On the other hand, I'm not sorry I read the book. I learned a whole lot about mass torts. Just be aware before you buy that this is basically a textbook with a plot.	2003-04-02
US	43282314	R1K2R2TAKNXF8C	0684163225	369552918	Of Wolves and Men	Books	5	6	6	N	N	beautiful and honest, reads like poetry	Barry Lopez captures magnificently the combination of scientific research, antidotal anomaly, and sheer pathos that is at the heart of wolf biology. The book manages to be well-documented and at the same time highly emotionally charged. The last two pages represent (in my humble opinion) the most gut-wrenching ending of any treatise ever penned on a single species. Having said that, don't go out and read the last two pages. You need the full weight of the book behind them to give them their punch.<br />Caution: the book will make you angry, and if you don't have a heart of granite, it may make you cry. It's terribly sad in places.	2003-02-18
US	43282314	R19UIF8Z9NXSJZ	0140013148	704525409	The Drunken Forest	Books	5	17	17	N	N	LOL	This book is a delightful true account of a naturalist's trip to South America in 1954. He is collecting animals for British zoos and in many cases he seems to be making some of the first discoveries of the intimate lives of his charges (what they eat, how best to house them, their temperaments, etc.). In the course their 6 month adventure, Gerald and his wife, Jacquie, must deal with numerous non-animal problems, such a revolution in Argentina, a crazed carpenter cage builder, and the eccentric habits of their temporary housekeeper, who also happens to be the local madam. Durrell's descriptions of the animals and the countryside are alternately beautiful and hilarious. This is a book to read aloud. It really is wonderful. :-)	2003-01-31
US	43282314	RXZBH4A7M06VR	0951299808	454138823	Cold Moons	Books	3	1	3	N	N	a "might-have-been" book	With humble apologies to other reviewers, I must say that I can see exactly why this book is out of print. _Cold Moons_ is a book in the spirit of Watership Down, but it lacks clarity and originality. It has a copy-cat quality: the horror of the poisoned den, the flight to new home, the cruelty of man and betrayal of fellow animals, the trials along the way, etc. These elements are pulled straight out of Watership Down with a few un-improvements. The writing itself is inconsistent, varying from fairly good to quite poor. For instance, in places, the characters appear to be floating in empty space. We are not told where they are standing, what is around them, what the weather's doing, no background scenery at all. This is puzzling in a novel that relies solely on the countryside for placement and texture. Without these details, time and distance become confused. In parts of the story, it becomes unclear how much time has passed or how much distance the animals have traveled. (We're talking: \\"Has it been one day or one week?\\" sort of thing.) I found these details exceedingly distracting. In addition, I personality found it difficult to care about the characters. Their personalities seemed too \\"stock,\\" pulled right of the \\"adventure-characters\\" shelf. Near the end of the book, the writing improved somewhat, and I have the idea that if the writer had spent more time editing, he might have come out with something really worth reading. As it was, I had difficulty finishing the book.	2003-01-06
US	43282314	R2D4YBJHU3MFY9	0094755000	630960213	Prince Rupert: Portrait of a Soldier (Bibliography & Memoirs)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	bravo, mr. kitson!	A fascinating book. Kitson is (I think) Rupert's only living biographer, and his work is most welcome. Kitson does an excellent job of doing exactly what he set out to do: creating a thorough, rounded, and scholarly account of Rupert's career in the army. Although the book is not intended to be a general biography, Kitson also manages to convey some of the reasons for his admiration of this remarkable man, and the book inspires the reader to search for other works on Rupert and the English Civil War. After reading this one, I took the trouble to hunt down a copy of Eva Scott's Prince Rupert of the Rhine, which is one of the rarer biographies, which, nevertheless, all Rupert's biographers seem to utilize. I have no idea why either Scott or Kitson are out of print. They shouldn't be. <br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the English Civil War or in Prince Rupert particularly. If you do not know anything about this part of history, this may not be the best starting place, as it assumes a certain cursory knowledge of the events. <br />One item which would improve this book substantially: better maps. Poor maps not withstanding, I still give it five stars.	2002-09-30
US	43282314	R1OQAQH91U24DK	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	12	14	N	N	best of the best	Very simply: my favorite work of fiction ever written. _Watership Down_ is the story of a group of English rabbits who leave their doomed warren in search of a better home. The company contains all the ingredients of an Arthurian court: the great, but humble king; the warrior; the bard; the seer. They have their inventor and their soldiers and their noble dream. These rabbits are armed only with their wits, their simple religion, and the mythological inspiration of an ancient hero. They play out their battles on the humble, legend-steeped downs of England.<br />_Watership Down_ has been described as a political novel based on the authors observations during WWII, but from all I've read, the book was mainly the result of Adam's stories to his two young daughters. While driving them to see Shakespeare's plays, Adams invented animal tales which he believed embodied the spirit, if not he setting, of the classics. He later worked the stories into the book that became _Watership Down_. It is a mark of the novel's scope that, although I read and loved it at 12, I was sitting in a 400-level university Ancient Classics class before I discovered the meaning of one of the chapter titles.  <br />_Watership Down_ is one of those books that defies categorization. To call it a \\"children's book\\" would be a gross misnomer, although the book was written for children. To call it an \\"animal story,\\" would be as technically correct as categorically wrong. To call it fantasy would be odd, for it lacks the most prominent ingredient of modern fantasy-magic.  <br />That said, the book was magic for me. It deals with ethics, with leadership, with friendship, with biology, with war. The characters have remained with me long after the details of the plot have faded. Now, more than ten years after I first opened it, _Watership Down_ retains an honored place on my bookshelf.	2002-06-25
US	43282314	R3HNWLVDHLEGSO	0750921927	111769156	The Young Elizabeth (Military Handbooks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	confusing beginning, but still a brilliant success	Books should be judged on whether they achieve their purpose. Plowden's purpose in this book appears to be the creation of a scholarly, yet readable biography of Elizabeth I's pre-queen years. This she does with consummate skill. The writing is superb, and the scholarship seems excellent. Plowden selects details calculated to wet the reader's curiosity and to draw a thorough picture of her subject. She has definite opinions, but she does not do all her readers' thinking for them.<br />I found this book and the rest in Plowden's Elizabeth quartet very appealing. Based on these books, I've been collecting biographies on all sorts of other tantalizing personalities that the writer mentions in passing.<br />Note: I am an English masters student, not a historian. I am therefore better qualified to judge the quality of the writing than the quality of the research.<br />One criticism: The book begins with a very swift overview of the complex circumstances leading to Elizabeth's birth. The part pertaining to Henry VIII is easily digestible, but the earlier section involving Henry VII, Katherine of Valois, Owen Tudor, and the War of the Roses proceeds at baffling speed. If you are not already familiar with this convoluted period of English history, the multitude of characters entering and exiting the stage may overwhelm you. My advice: hang in there; it gets better.	2002-06-25
US	43282314	R348SL2WZGGEV	0750912219	606330363	Women All on Fire: The Women of the English Civil War	Books	5	10	10	N	N	marvelous!	A wonderful book, brimming with the fiery personalities of women long dead. Plowden's purpose in this book is not to give an overview of the English civil war (don't buy the book if that's what you need), but to show how women participated. She does this by giving specific examples from the lives of Queen Henrietta Maria, Ann Fanshawe, Charlotte Stanley, Mary Verney, Jane Lane, Mary Banks, Brilliana Harley, Anne Fairfax, and many more. Plowden draws her information primarily from letters, many of them between husbands and wives. While her focus is on the women, she does not hesitate to bring out the strengths and weaknesses of their husbands, and she shows the warmth and devotion of these 17th century couples with an intensity that makes their relationships seem enviable.<br />One caution: this is a very specific book about a specific subject. If you know nothing about the English civil war, you may be a tad confused. If you're interested enough, you'll still enjoy the book, but you'll enjoy it more if you already have at least a skeletal knowledge of the history and the major players.<br />One weakness: the organization of the book was at first confusing. It is organized more by individual women than by chronology, although the whole is chronological (we stay with one person for a while, then jump to another, then to another, finally back to person number one). This is a trifle confusing, but I'm not sure how I'd do it differently.	2002-06-18
