US	43351627	R2B3RGY1FY5SUQ	0913836052	725330194	Marriage: An Orthodox Perspective	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Good, especially on Liturgical stuff	This book provides a good overview of marriage. While not as \\"deep\\" as some Orthodox books on the subject, it is definately more practical than most, and also goes into the liturgical aspects of getting married more than most. Fr. John's explanation of how the Orthodox view of sex differs from the view of certain other Christians is probably helpful to those unfamiliar with all the theological disputes. And certainly, his inclusion of Canons and quotes from Church Fathers add some meat to Fr. John's overview.	2005-07-31
US	43351627	RLPHQ85T0DBDY	0801483042	482618982	Sex and Society in the World of the Orthodox Slavs 900–1700	Books	3	25	28	N	N	Lots of Good Information; Some Unsubstantiated Speculation	Everything that Eve Levin says in this book may be true. It *may* all be true: but she certainly doesn't establish all of her premises persuasively. Sometimes, she doesn't even try to (I can only assume that she thinks that the evidence speaks for itself). Obviously, if you disagree with someone's premises, you are going to question their conclusions. Thus, while Eve Levin gives mountains of good information in this book, the reader is left having doubts as to whether her conclusions are correct. Three of the premises that particularly bugged me: <br /> <br />1. Levin constantly states that the Slavs considered sex and even sexual thoughts to be evil in and of themselves, and to be due to Satanic (or demonic) influence. As an Orthodox Christian who has read a number of books on the subject from various perspectives (secular, Catholic, Orthodox),  I have never once came upon this type of claim. The Church Fathers normally considered the most strict on sexual matters (Bl. Augustine, St. Gregory the Diagolist, etc.) certainly never went so far as to say that sex was in itself evil. At most, they said that sex was a minor sin.  <br /> <br />Eastern Fathers, for the most part, were not even as strict as this (this can be verified on any number of sexual issues, from priestly celibacy to the importance of condemning contraception in canonical literature). While the west followed, to a large extent, Augustine's views on sexuality, the East followed, to a large extent, the more \\"moderate\\"  St. John Chrysostom, who spoke approvingly of sex being pleasurable, sexual attraction being natural, etc. (David Ford's book on St. John Chrysostom provides  a good examination of these issues).  And, Levin herself says that St. John was the most popular preacher/homilist among the Slavs. So where does the idea that sexuality was inherently evil come from? *Maybe* it's true, but if it is, it would have to have been within the scope of her study (after the year 900, about sexuality, etc.), so why no evidence? <br /> <br />2. The second premise that Levin works from is that all (or most) of the sexual beliefs that the Slavs had were built around protecting the good of society, even if to the detriment of the good of the individual. Again, this may very well be true, but no evidence is given in a systematic fashion to demonstrate this. This is an important point because it could greatly effect how a modern Orthodox reader would view the information found, and also effect how applicable the information is to our own present-day context.  <br /> <br />3. the third premise that bugged me was her statement that \\"modern Western society has accepted as axiomatic the propsition that sexuality is innate. The medieval Orthodox Slavs rejected this view.\\" (p. 13)  Ok, so maybe they did. What evidence is there for this? The only evidence we are given are the canons and literature quoted later on other topics. In other words, no direct attempt is made to demonstrate the premise. But how can we believe that the premise is correct, solely by her reading the premise into various canons and penitential literature and then basing conclusions on that information? How do we know whether it is eisegesis or exegesis? We don't. <br /> <br />Now, with these exceptions, I thought the book was good. I felt like Levin was a bit condescending (or patronizing) at times, though for the most part I found her to be suprisingly willing to look for answers that could explain what she was discussing. It would have been easy to just give a straight exposition of the subject, and leave it at that. But Levin (with the 3 above exceptions) seemed willing to do deeper. Left simply as black and white, many of the Slavic practices (e.g., having a raped girl marry her rapist)  would come off as hideous and profoundly sick to modern ears (though fwiw, the Mosaic law enforced the same practice of a young girl marrying the man who raped her--Deut. 22:28-29). But Levin attempts to give informationthat helps to put the practices into their proper historical context.  <br /> <br />And an extra star can be given here just for the sheer amount of information that Levin gives. I estimated that the book comes in at somewhere over a hundred thousand words, and it's an information-packed hundred thousand at that.  Some more information on certain points would have been nice, but in the end she provides more information than you could possibly handle at one time (or with one read). It was also very interesting to read about how Orthodox Christians of the past treated issues like menstrual periods, nocturnal emissions, abstaining from sex before receiving the eucharist, etc. Obviously this is not information that is easy to find, but it is interesting reading (if you find such historical things interesting). <br /> <br />For anyone who is interested in sexuality from an Orthodox perspective, this book would be a must read. In fact, it is probably an even bigger must-read than the oft-quoted John Noonan book on Contraception (Noonan himself makes some unsubstantiated speculations, like that the early Church's view on contraception was based primarily on stoic philosophy). Interestingly, though, Noonan's newest book, A Church That Can and Cannot Change, is a good one to read in companion with Levin's, because in that book Noonan discusses the possibility of a development of moral doctrine, which is quite relevant when meditating on Levin's information.	2005-07-26
US	43351627	R3JJLSTC9D7HBN	0060007761	568367162	The Gulag Archipelago: 1918-1956	Books	5	51	53	N	N	Masterpiece	It is hard to measure how profound a book like this is, because it covers such a wide range of subjects almost subtlely. The things that you are likely to remember are the descriptions of torture, the small amounts of food, and so forth. What you remember is the things that made you cringe, and realise that you probably would have given up had you been placed in the same situation.  <br /> <br />But as Solzhenitsyn tried repeatedly to bring out, it was the so-called \\"little\\" things that really either killed you, or gave you hope. As an example, many people might recall the sticking of hot metal up certain areas of the human anatomy; but as Solzehnitsyn said, this was most often not necessary. Seemingly mundane (relatively speaking) things like sleep deprivation was enough to drive even the most stable men insane. It was not the hot flash of pain that would get most people, but the exhaustion of wakefulness. Monotony could be every bit as much your enemy as freezing temperatures; and it was just as likely to send you to your death. These are but two examples, Solzehnitsyn gives up many more. <br /> <br />If there is any book that can and should be read by everyone, it is this book. One need not be interested in communism, political theory, or such things for this book to have meaning. This book is above all about the human condition. It is a biograpy and autobiography about every man who has ever suffered greatly, and it is a lesson to every man who has never suffered greatly.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R1MG04CIE3LTYF	1857561570	136310899	Life in Christ	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Wonderful Book on Sacraments and Salvation	This book has normally been described as a book about the sacramental life in the Orthodox Church. That is true, but it might better be described as a book which lives up to it's name: it really is about the \\"Life in Christ,\\" and not just one particular aspect of that life. The concept of synergy, so often employed by Orthodox theologians, is touched upon frequently in this book, but always within the context of a wider discussion. The discussion is never *just* about Sacraments, or *just* about free-will, or *just* about salvation. If it is about one of them, it is about all of them (and a good deal more).<br /><br />Perhaps the most intriquing thing about this book is its unintended ecumenicalesque content. It goes without saying that Orthodox Christians will identify what St. Nicholas is saying as their own. But Catholics will have a similar reaction, as St. Nicholas spoke more freely, and not in the guarded way that Orthodox theologians do today, always trying to distinguish between Anselmian views of salvation and Eastern views. St. Nicholas has no problem talking about the cross as payment on a debt, as atonement, as sacrifice. He speaks as very few modern Orthodox theologians would (which is not a knock on modern theologians, but simply a statement about St. Nicholas).<br /><br />Even some Protestants, if they can get past all the sacramental stuff, could find much of value in this book. St. Nicholas articulates the Orthodox view of free-will very well, and while some armchair theologians would call it semi-pelagian, it is in fact perfectly orthodox. The other thing that it is is rarely known in the west. The intriquing thing, then, is that while Orthodox and Catholics will be perfectly fine with what St. Nicholas says, for many Protestants what he says will come as something of a shock and a revelation. It has been said that there could have been no free-will/predestination dispute in the East, because a better solution than this artificial dichotomy had already been arrived at. This book describes this solution well.<br /><br />And, again, if it does anything, it speaks of the life in Christ.already been arrived at. This book describes this solution well.  <br /> <br />And, again, if it does anything, it speaks of the life in Christ.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R3M5KIU3DRV2V6	188097133X	178949310	The Orthodox Church a Well-Kept Secret: A Journey Through Church History	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Contemporary History, Sort Of	This book tries to give a bit of everything, but ends up doing nothing very well. First, the book is not very large, which is not a good sign when you are trying to cover two thousand years worth of history. The biggest section in the book discusses what is going on in the modern Orthodox world in the various Orthodox jurisdictions. Unfortunately, even this information is not very helpful as it was not especially accurate. The author's claims, for example, about the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia are exaggerated; the author essentially take the statements of a few firebrands within ROCOR and projects them onto the entire jurisdiction as though the statements are ROCOR's official position or dominant belief. Readers would be better served reading The Orthodox Church by Bp. Kallistos, or even Fr. Alexander Schmemann's The Historical Road of Eastern Orthodoxy.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R1MR4YT9PYPU31	093703293X	752896508	Achieving Your Potential in Christ, Theosis: Plain Talks on a Major Doctrine of Orthodoxy	Books	3	20	20	N	N	Helpful	This book is exactly what it claims to be: \\"plain talks\\" on theosis. It is written for the popular level lay person, and does an outstanding job presenting the Orthodox concept of deification, or theosis, in easily understood language. Of course, it lacks some of the profundity of, say, Gregory Palamas, but that is the point. If it had all the high-falutin' theological talk, it wouldn't be accessible to your typical lay reader. Anyone who has tried to comprehend Palamas' doctrine on salvation will know what I mean; it is not a subject one can understand through a brief or simple study. In this book, Fr. Anthony takes the depth of Palamas, and makes it presentable to Joe Layman. IMO, It shouldn't be the end of one's understanding of theosis, but it is a good introduction.<br /><br />For those interested in further reading, the Orthodox View of Salvation by Bp. Kallistos also covers the basics of theosis, Sts. Gregory Palamas and Nicholas Cabasilas are good patristic sources for understanding the doctrine in it's depth, Panayiotis Nellas covers the anthropological side in his book Deification in Christ: Orthodox Perspectives on the Nature of the Human Person, and Met. Hierotheos of Nafpaktos covers very well how we can cultivate the virtues and put theosis into effect on a daily basis.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R38VFZ6HU4SOTZ	067973452X	286460989	Notes from Underground (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Profound	This is one of those books in which the character(s) are so richly drawn, so strange and yet not unbelievable, that they almost seem real. Dostoevsky had a wonderful ability to create people who were terrible, evil, and downright detestable, but whom you still became fascinated by. Of course, his point was always one of healing and redemption: that these good things were there for the taking, even for the lowest of the low, if only the low would come down from their heights of pride and lower themselves far enough to accept what was offered by God. This novel is the type that makes you want to grab ahold of the lead character by the collar and yell at him, \\"What is wrong with you!? Don't you see what you are doing to yourself, and to others? Are you happy stuck in this endless cycle of misery?\\" But some people really *are* stuck in a rut, and continue a cyclical life of misery their entire lives; in the end, sadly, that's what makes this book so realistic and powerful.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R3E4NBVSX5P8MC	1559949821	855224920	Standing Firm: A Vice-Presidential Memoir	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Hurt His Case, IMO	Let me preface this review by saying that I am a conservative. I am a Christian (both of which can easily be verified by reading my other reviews). And until I read this book, I wanted to like Dan Quayle. He always seemed like the media's whipping boy, like the guy that couldn't get a fair shake. I remember watching Rush Limbaugh's TV show and seeing Slick Willy laughing at a funeral, and then after spotting a camera instantaneously becoming very sad. I wanted to know why other politicians weren't hounded like Quayle was? <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Dan answered this question in his book: he really is as the media presents him. The media paints Quayle as a guy who's smarter than average, conservative, and something of a mistake-making dufus. I found nothing in the book to refute this portrait. Quayle goes into gaff after goof that he made in a very short time period, and one comes away seeing that, yes, he really does have a problem that would be the death of any politician. Now don't get me wrong, I'm sure Mr. Quayle is much smarter that I will ever be; he's probably also more charismatic, well connected, financially secure, etc.  <br /> <br />But none of these things can save Dan from himself. He's the Yogi Berra of politicians, and you can't blame the media for jumping on the chance to make a few dollars off of his persona. Mr. Quayle's a capitalist and a conservative, surely he understands that? (though, of course, he could point out the hypocrisy in the media's claim to be unbiased, when they have biases just like the rest of us)  <br /> <br />I don't know why, but it seems like conservative politicians--e.g., Quayle, Gingrich, Keyes, etc.--have self-imploded any time they have been given a chance to do well. Meanwhile, conservative pundits--e.g., Limbaugh, Hannity, etc.--have done astronomically well when given the chance. I suppose the Republican party needs another man like Reagan, who can be a bit of everything at the same time, and still come off as seeming like much more than just the sum of his parts. <br /> <br />Whatever the case in real life may be, I do admit that I found this book to be somewhat entertaining (if somewhat self-promoting, as most biographies are). Unfortunately, the let down that came from realising that Quayle had hurt his own case made this book very unlikable in my own eyes. It's never pleasant to see someone shoot themselves in the foot.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	RVNK83US0KN3U	0913836370	407002856	A Commentary on the Divine Liturgy	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Outstanding	This is probably the best book available on Orthodox worship. It might not match the current liturgy exactly, and it might not be as extensive in it's treatment as some more modern liturgical texts, but whatever is lacking in this book is more than made up for in it's depth and profundity. St. Nicholas goes through the liturgy part by part to give a commentary on the fixed portions, compare and contrast western and east liturgical practices, and generally give a sense of what an Orthodox worship service *should* be like. This is required reading for just about all Orthodox Christians, but especially for those who struggle to pay attention during services and even find them boring. I am not saying that this book is going to make the liturgy seem like heaven on earth if you don't already get that feeling; but at the very least, this book shows you the rhyme and reason for all the various things going on during a liturgy.	2005-07-17
US	43351627	R2ZDFAX3EB8N7Y	0881412201	735120884	On God and Man: The Theological Poetry of st Gregory of Nazianzus (St. Vladimir's Seminary Press &#34;Popular Patristics&#34; Series.) (St. Vladimir's Seminary Press "Popular Patristics" Series.)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Simply Wonderful	I should say first off that, if you are looking for poetry like that by Frost or Longfellow or innumerable others, this isn't the book you'd want. This poetry is not always theological, but it *is* always faith-filled, or God-focused. If you are not particularly religious, you probably won't appreciate the poetry as much. Here are a few examples of St. Gregory's poetry: <br /> <br />Come, then, and I will speak of the beloved mysteries of God, <br />whatever Virginity has revealed in these last times. <br />Once it was, when black night concealed all things.  <br />There was then no beloved morning light; nor had the sun made its fiery way from the east. <br />The cresent moon, night's glory, did not show. <br />But all things were jumbled with each other, uselessly wandering <br />locked together in murky chains of first-born chaos... <br /> <br />And from a different poem: <br /> <br />But I, I have not kept God's holy mysteries, <br />with a soul initiated in the way again to heaven, <br />but the dust's weight weighs me down, nor could I manage <br />to cast my gaze to light, when I rose from the mud <br />Yes, cast it! But midway there arose a cloud, blocking the view, <br />the flesh stirred up by a mundane spirit. <br />Many cares turn about in my heart, this way and that, <br />empty things, from a wandering mind, <br />casting Christ, GOd the Word, far off... <br />But now, while God provided every member as good, to do good things,  <br />evil has found them an instrument toward my death. <br />What is this law for me? How am I bound upon earth by flesh? <br />How, as a body mingled with light spirit, <br />am I not totally mind, a pure nature, not totally <br />a dust of lesser things, but something else, from both, and both? <br />Therefore I wage an unending battle of war, with <br />flesh and soul opposed to one another. <br />I am the image of God, and am drawn to wickedness... <br /> <br />The subjects covered in the poetry contained in this book ranges widely, and include God, providence, virginity, his own writings, and many others. The book is not overly long, and is definately worth reading again and again. I first became captivated by St. Gregory through his Orations (particularly 2 and 40), but it is above all in his poetry that you get to glimpse into the depths of his mind, both theologically and personally.	2005-07-14
US	43351627	R1TU20ULG3UFGZ	0571130135	158284438	001: The Philokalia: The Complete Text (Vol. 1); Compiled by St. Nikodimos of the Holy Mountain and St. Markarios of Corinth	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Powerful	Some of the most powerful spiritual texts ever written are contained in this book. Many people caution that you should get advice from a spiritual father before reading this book. While I agree in principle, in practice things are not always so simple (as St. Ignatius Brianchaninov understood, since he advised that people use books themselves as a sort-of spiritual father if one were not available). There is also the issue of inconsistency: why does no one speak so cautiously about the Sayings of the Desert Fathers, when there is stuff in there that would be much more harmful if someone tried to apply it in his own life. I am simply making the point so that people will not be scared off by some of the (justly) cautionary statements sometimes made about this book. It is a wonderful book if used properly. You just have to use it properly.	2005-07-14
US	43351627	R1PI5UVXOILQ37	0938635123	19627429	The Place of Blessed Augustine in the Orthodox Church (Orthodox Theological Texts)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Apologetic	Certainly Bl. Augustine had some flaws, as all saints do. But is he a heretic, or the \\"source of all western heresies\\"? Certain people, such as Fr. Michael Azkoul, Dr. Alexander Kalomiros, and even John S. Romanides, would seem to say so. But in this book by Fr. Seraphim Rose, a basic outline of why Augustine *is* a saint in the Orthodox Church is given. As was pointed out in another review, this isn't a scholarly or exhaustive treatment, but it is on the level of popular apologetics, and on that level it succeeds quite beautifully.  <br /> <br />The book itself goes through a history of what was said in the 1,600 years since Augustine lived quite quickly, but hits on some very important points along the way. The Letters of Fr. Seraphim Rose in which he wrote about Bl. Augustine are a wonderful addition to this book, and add a personal depth that helps connect the book to real life. We aren't just talking about some dry, abstract, academic debate here; this is an important issue. Fr. Seraphim did us all a great service by presenting us a case for Augustine's blessedness, and pointing towards avenues for further study. <br /> <br />The only major criticism that I have of the book is that it is very poorly documented (never one of Fr. Seraphim's strong areas). For example, on page 79 Fr. Seraphim tells us that Augustine is called \\"Saint Augustine the Great\\" in the official calendar of one of the Old-Calendarist Greek Churches. That's great... but which group, and when? Fr. Seraphim doesn't say. But again, the book wasn't written for intellectuals, but for regular Joe Layman's.	2005-07-12
US	43351627	R1DHO39EL9OA4U	0881410276	750368365	The Deification of Man: St. Gregory Palamas and the Orthodox Tradition (Contemporary Greek Theologians Series , No 2) (English and Greek Edition)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Balanced	There are a few books out there on the salvific doctrine of St. Gregory Palamas, and also a few more books on deification as a subject unto itself. The best thing about this book is not just that it combines the two, but that it does so in a balanced way. Every chapter is about a different aspect of theology and praxis as it relates to theosis/deification. The first chapter is about anthropology, and how God bestows grace in the Divine economy; the Second about ecclesiology, and how God bestows grace via the Sacraments; the Third about morality, and the need for asceticism and virtue (with God's help: synergy); the Fourth chapter discusses the ascent into God's mountain, the growing in grace; and the Fifth chapter discusses the \\"consummation of deification\\" (as the author puts it).	2005-07-12
US	43351627	R21O6IETVZC4WF	0938635670	806637357	The Apocalypse: In the Teachings of Ancient Christianity	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Helpful Commentary	There is a sea of confusion about the book of Revelation, and the subject of the \\"end times\\" in general. This book does not purport to bring perfect clarity to the confusion. What it does do is offer commentary based on what the early Christians themselves, and Christians through the centuries, have said about these subjects. This can sometimes mean that you get disjointed, and even contradictory, testimony. However, it also means that you get something that is grounded in history, and you get to see what Christians from all eras believed, not just today's supposed experts expounding on theories that are hardly a couple hundred years old. This is not to say that current events are ignored in this book, but only that because of it's historical perspective, today's current events can be seen from a more detached and objective vantage point.  <br /> <br />Translations of texts has been one of Fr. Seraphim Rose's best contributions to English-speaking Orthodoxy, and we are indebted to him for this translation (as well as his find introduction concerning the author). Some (across jurisdictional lines) believe Archbp. Averky to have been a saint, though only time will tell on that matter. Whatever the case, His Grace has provided a fine help in this effort in helping us to understand how complex and profound the events described in Revelation really are.  <br /> <br />After my experience with a certain Protestant group, with it's historically anachronistic claims and absurd speculations, I was very much against reading any type of eschatological book. The subject simply turned me off, for lack of a better phrase. Still, I knew that the subject was important, so I decided to read this book. I was pleasantly suprised by how much I enjoyed it, and how much I was glad to have put my ill feelings for the subject behind me. Perhaps others are cautious about this subject; perhaps the string of popular rapture or fictional type literature has made the subject seem like one to beavoided. If so, I would still suggest giving this book a chance. This book is the exact opposite of most of the popular end times books out today. It doesn't have all the answers, but it does ask the right questions; whereas most of the books out today claim to have answers that they don't have, but proceed to ask the wrong questions (ie. they ask questions they think they have an answer to).   <br /> <br />This book goes through Genesis verse by verse as a commentary. It was written by a 20th century Orthodox Archbishop, but it takes into account nearly 20 centuries of Christian thought, quoting Christians throughout the centuries often. If Archbp. Averky doesn't know the answer to something, the author might speculate briefly, but he  doesn't try to force theories onto you or ramble on for pages about them. He is more concerned with asking the right questions, and having the right information, so that we can make the best choices as Christians.	2005-07-12
US	43351627	R1VTYJFTCZ62C1	093863514X	329871345	The Soul After Death	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Some Interesting Speculations	This book opens up a lot of avenues for theological exploration and thought, but unfortunately might turn some people off by unnecessary speculations. The obvious (and most hotly debated) subject in the book are the Aerial Toll Houses. I don't really agree with Fr. Seraphim's ultra-literal view of them, but then I also find the polemics against him to be a bit sensationalistic and unpersuasive. There are also Fr. Seraphim's thoughts on U.F.O.'s and a myriad of other topics, which some readers will find fascinating and some will find off-putting (to put it mildly).     Some of the valuable information in this book includes a short overview of the Teaching of St. Mark of Ephesus at the Council of Florence, and the Orthodox view on angels. On other subjects, however, Fr. Seraphim seems to stretch things beyond their proper limits to make a point. For example, in his attempt to show that various experiences (e.g., visions of heaven) by non-Orthodox are demonic delusions, Fr. Seraphim paints a very one-sided and strict view of what an \\"Orthodox experience\\" is supposedly like. In trying to combat a certain error, I think that Fr. Seraphim went slightly too far in the other direction. There are lots of patristic texts that serve as a witness contrary to Fr. Seraphim's own position.     This book may indeed be priceless to some people, and might have helped them in their spiritual walks immensely. I do not mean for this review to be taken as saying that the book should be avoided. Yet, I can only judge it based on what I got out of it, and while I respect Fr. Seraphim's thoughts, I didn't find them at all persuasive, nor particularly helpful or applicable to my own life.	2005-07-12
US	43351627	R3VL2BW1JJG26Z	1888212012	6881216	Preserve Them, O Lord: A guide for Orthodox couples in developing marital unity	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good Workbook	I used this book a few years ago when I was attending classes before getting married. This book (and the video series associated with it) is very good, and I would recommend it to just about anyone, whether you are married, thinking about marriage, or thinking about not marrying. It's main strength is that it focuses on making marriage realistic. Yes, there are sections that talk about all the lofty virtues and whatnot there are associated with marriage. And that is important. But it also lets you know how difficult it can be--that it is in it's own way a cross to carry. It is also full of practical tips, funny anecdotes, and all the other stuff that makes a good book about this type of subject into a great one.     I have only two criticisms (and they are minor ones!). First, it would have been nice had sex not been covered in such a small degree. I guess this was done so as to allow each person's pastor freedom to discuss (or not discuss) the issue as the couple wanted. Still, a section or two about general views from an Orthodox perspective would have been nice. And second, I would very respectfully disagree with Fr. John Mack's statement that divorce was \\"almost unknown among traditionally Orthodox people ... because of the unique Orthodox view of marriage\\". I think it is demonstrable that the reason divorce was almost unknown in Orthodox cultures was for the same reasons that it was almost unknown in Catholic and Protestant cultures in the Old World: for cultural and familial reasons mostly having to do with stigmas and negative financial considerations.	2005-07-12
US	43351627	RSB0H36FHPYW4	0938635697	126285844	Orthodox Dogmatic Theology: A Concise Exposition	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Excellent Overview of Orthodox Thought	A very complete overview of Orthodox Dogmatic Theology, from a traditional Orthodox perspective. While not as broad in it's scope as other books, such as \\"The Orthodox Church\\" by Bp. Kallistos, the smaller scope of the book does allow for a closer examination of the subjects that are dealth with, and Fr. Michael Pomazansky does this quite well.  <br /> <br />This book is a systematic examination of Orthodox theology, and for that some have criticized it; systematic, catechism, etc. are four-letter words for some Orthodox. However, one cannot help but wonder why organization as it happens in this book could ever be considered a bad thing. Perhaps only behind \\"The Orthodox Church\\" and \\"The Orthodox Way,\\" this is the book that I would most likely recommend to anyone wishing to have a broad but intellectually satisfying overview of what the Orthodox believe. <br /> <br />I do have two minor  issues with the text as it is today.  First, it is impossible to tell when footnotes are from Fr. Seraphim Rose (the translator) or Fr. Michael (the author). This has caused a problem at times when I know that Fr. Seraphim feels a certain way about a subject, but I am not sure whether Fr. Michael also feels the same way. A lengthy footnote is sometimes provided, but with no indentification as to who is speaking.  <br /> <br />And second, Fr. Seraphim does seem to insert things into the book that were not originally part of the book.  While this is not uncommon in books published by the St. Herman of Alaska Brotherhood, and while these additions are given in appendices, I still feel like it is an unfortunate move sometimes, as in a case like this book where the appendices bring in a controversial tone to the book that would have otherwise been absent. If I lend or give this book to someone and they have questions about Orthodoxy, I'd much rather try and answer questions about icons or Mary, and not controversial subjects like the Dogma of Redemption.	2005-07-12
US	43351627	R1N752E2GQ4MFN	0881410772	703667682	St Isaac of Nineveh on Ascetical Life (English and Syriac Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Stuff!	This is a very powerful work on the life in Christ: not just asceticism but also the mindset that we have as Christians. As with most ascetical literature, there are many things that we find to be \\"hard sayings\\" today because of our softness. However, if viewed as a challenge to improve rather than an unreachable goal, even these hard sayings can be immensely insightful. There are also many interesting metaphors and idiomatic sayings that will make the teachings (re)memorable. The only reason that I gave the book 4 stars instead of 5 was that St. Isaac digresses into a dry and intricate doctrinal discussion for a while, which (it seemed to me at least) hurt the flow of the book.	2005-07-11
US	43351627	R2A78AIXXM4QL0	1880971224	187458450	How Are We Saved?: The Understanding of Salvation in the Orthodox Tradition	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Fantastic Overview of the Subject	This book is a really helpful overview if you want (or someone you know wants) a quick, concise explanation of how the Orthodox Church understands  salvation. Synergy, perfection, atonement, sin, original sin, etc. are not easy subjects to explain if you have volumes to work with, let alone a very short book  like this one, but Bishop Kallistos manages to do it very well.  He even manages to not only explain what the Orthodox believe, but also explains how Orthodoxy differs from Catholicism and Protestantism in her understanding of crucial points. This is also a good book to give to someone if you would like to get someone interested in Orthodoxy. The only bad part about the book is that it could have easily fit into a book 1/3 the size that it currently is. It seems to have been drawn out purposely so that more could be charged for the book. A dozen pages have a single sentence on them!  Yet, the content of the book makes up for the publishing mistake.	2005-07-11
US	43351627	R3N9F6JYRB2WU4	0913836583	566465397	The Orthodox Way	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Good Companion Book, Or Book Unto Itself	This book is often considered a companion text to The Orthodox Church. While that book discussed the specifics of Orthodox doctrine, it did so in a somewhat vanilla manner. The Orthodox Church is meant to be a very basic overview. This book, while not going into the depths of thought of people like V. Lossky or St. Justin Popovich, goes a bit deeper than The Orthodox Church into the spiritual profundity of the Orthodox faith. The chapters are on Mystery, Trinity, Creator, Man, Spirit, and Prayer... all as it relates to God; all about God being these very things.  <br /> <br />This is not to say that this book is totally a theological book about God; there certainly is mention of God's creation. But this book, like Orthodoxy itself, is God-centered. While the Orthodox Church gives the basics of Orthodox doctrine and practice, The Orthodox Way does a better job at putting Orthodox doctrine and practice within their proper context. For those who have an interest in Orthodoxy, this book is a necessary read.	2005-07-09
US	43351627	R1DUANCWW64W5W	1931709262	501515272	More Catholic Than the Pope: An Inside Look at Extreme Traditionalism	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Dry,  Though Informative	\\"Faithful remnant, or fanatic schismatics?\\" That is a question posed in a large font at the top of the back cover. The conclusions that the author's of the book come to can be inferred from the title: \\"More Catholic Than the Pope: An Inside Look at Extreme Traditionalism\\". Extreme! That means bad, bad, bad in our modern ecumenically-toned, ever-so-moderate, religious language. Extreme equates to fanatic, fringe, and zealot. Obviously the authors are not going to come out defending these traditionalists that (?) think they are \\"More Catholic Than the Pope\\". <br /> <br />So far this seems like it will be a pretty entertaining, if one-sided, book.  It even says \\"inside look,\\" and tells us on the back flap that one of the authors was \\"a former adherent to the SSPX schism\\". Most people are probably preparing themselves for an expose' of the heretofore unrevealed facts and motivations and whatnot of these extremists.  <br /> <br />However, If one will read the rest of the back cover, one will quickly realise that this is not what the book is about. This book is intended to be two things: history and canonical argument. It is also a third thing: dry as saw dust. I would not call it apologetic, as apologetical literature should be persuasive, and it's hard to persuade someone when your material is so boring that the reader is falling asleep.  <br /> <br />On the other hand, I don't mean to be attacking the authors personally. I would guess that there really isn't a way of making this material enjoyable reading. But when I say \\"entertain\\" and \\"enjoyable,\\" I don't mean in a simply profane sense. I mean that my attention constantly strayed, that while I could see the relevance of <br />each point made, I really didn't care a whit. The authors have shown that their subject is indeed the guilty party, but they've given us no reason to care whether they are guilty or not. They make a good (if dry and lawyerly) case, but it has no personal meaning to the average reader.  <br /> <br />As an Orthodox Christian I felt especially distanced (in spite of my wife being formerly in the SSPX). This book came off as much more one-sided than the other things I've heard about them, though I guess that's the nature of such books. The most intersting thing I got out of the book was in the similarities I saw between the SSPX and our own Orthodox traditionalist groups. Some of the quotes and arguments from Lefevre could have come straight from the mouths of various Orthodox traditionalist Bishops and priests. The resemblance was quite frightening. <br /> <br />As far as enjoyability, I'd give this book 2 stars, but I think that's unfair given the material, and the fact that the authors did, in the end, provide a very thorough case (canonically anyway; their defense of Vatican 2 was very short). So, I'm giving the book 3 stars. If you are a Catholic and interested in the history of Catholic traditionalist groups, this book may be more to your liking than it was to mine.	2005-07-09
US	43351627	RV83K4V7JEJ1X	0881410306	924639640	Deification in Christ: Orthodox Perspectives on the Nature of the Human Person (Contemporary Greek Theologians, Vol 5) (English and Greek Edition)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Best Book on the Subject	This book is perhaps the best work in the English language articulating the Eastern Christian (Orthodox) view of anthropology. I was amazed at the depth and insight in this book, concerning everything from sexuality to marriage, from how we came to have our bodily functions to how we are saved. And this depth is exactly why this book is so important. It's about anthropology, yes: but everything in our lives, no matter how carnal or spiritual, directly or indirectly spring from how humanity. Thus it is through a study of anthropology that we can come to better understand not only ourselves, but everything and everyone that has  (or doesn't have) an effect on us.<br /><br />For an example, consider what people normally call \\"the Fall\\". Now, normally when Christians mention that, they just pass over it quickly and say something about sin and death coming because of it. But there is so much more to it that than; our entire present state of being was effected by the fall, from how we reproduce to how we go to the bathroom to how we can attain salvation. This book is exactly about all of this and more. It is about \\"Orthodox perspectives on the Nature of the Human Person\\". That is to say, it passes on the understanding of the early Christians living in the East. It tells us how those early Christians understood Genesis. Literally? Symbolically? Both? Neither? This book doesn't get bogged down by such questions, it just goes ahead and presents what the early Christians said, and you can be the judge yourself of their position.	2005-07-09
US	43351627	R2W5Y9926SSEZ2	0938635492	777768596	The Forgotten Medicine: The Mystery of Repentance	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Confession	This book, as one might guess from the title, is about Confession. It is about more of course, since repentance is a very wide-reaching and profound aspect of Orthodox spirituality, and certainly is not limited to Confession. However, those who are looking for a book about private repentance will be let down by this book. It is about \\"The Mystery of Repentance,\\" as the sub-title says. Of course, this can be taken in a number of ways. Such an intimate thing as repentance--the meeting of God and Man through Prayer--is in many ways a mystery. But in this case,  by Mystery the author means  Sacrament (the Greek Mysterion is roughly equivalent to the Latin Sacramentum, I've been told).  <br /> <br />The book is a very good overview of the Orthodox Sacrament of Confession. It deals with the how's, why's, and even addresses some of the objections that sometimes pop up. This book is not for those who are lax or lazy spiritually, and get defensive when confronted. This book doesn't beat around the bush, and puts the Orthodox faith forward straightly, without sugar-coating.	2005-07-09
US	43351627	R2OEEJEJ0BZGIX	1561250163	907057503	Jesus: A Dialogue With the Saviour	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good Reading	As a more traditional(ist) Orthodox Christian, I approached this book by \\"A Monk of the Eastern Church\\" (aka Lev Gillet) with some caution. I had been told by some that he was only half-converted from Roman Catholicism, and was not totally orthodox. I didn't go in looking for errors, but then I didn't expect to be amazed either. <br /> <br />I was pleasantly suprised then, when I found this book to be one of the more insightful books I had read in quite some time. The book is set up as a sort of group of meditations, and would be great to read once a day during the Lenten or Nativity fast. Lev Gillet has obviously put a lot of thought and prayerful meditation into the Scriptures, and this book blesses us with the fruit of that effort. Again and again, the author gives a unique and insightful (and exciting) perspective on the Gospel stories that may seem ordinary and familiar to the typical Christian. Like G.K. Chesterton, Lev Gillet had a way of using language and thought to peacefully provoke us out of our apathetic approach to life and literature, and to think about things in a whole different (but still orthodox) way.	2005-07-07
US	43351627	R2WGJPVVXRWTR0	0140146563	270035970	The Orthodox Church: New Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Best Introduction	This book clearly outlines the history, though, and practices of Eastern Orthodox Christians,  and has become the standard introductory text (both for private and classroom use) when learning about Orthodox Christianity. There are some valid critiques of the book, and some of the changes that have been made over the years, and these critiques are easily found online. But whatever the case, despite certain changes, this book remains in the minds of most the most important first text for a person interested in learning about Orthodoxy to read. Read in conjunction with His Grace's other book, The Orthodox Way, a person begins to catch a glimpse of what Orthodoxy is about, once you get past all the ethnicity and other secondary elements.	2005-07-07
US	43351627	R3HZS05INV7HCF	0962271373	843184011	Apostolic Succession	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Overview	While not completely exhaustive, this book is a very well documented, concise text on the history of the concept of Apostolic Succession in the early Church. Rather than making a long treatise about the philosophical premises and historical quirks associated with the subject, Fr. Gregory instead simply writes a straight-forward, somewhat apologetical work, which can easily be grasped by everyone, and which never comes off as either overly academic or condescendingly simple. Put simply, it is the perfect mixture of scholarship and plain language for anyone wanting to read a quick overview of apostolic succession.	2005-07-07
US	43351627	R17N1N6G9CSTYO	1880971054	948115335	St. Gregory Palamas: Treatise on the Spiritual Life	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Weighty Spiritual Treatise	This work by one of the most famous and influential Eastern Christian saints, Gregory Palamas, is really rather fantastic. The Introduction by Mr. Rogich is very good, as are the notes/footnotes throughout the book. Thankfully the publisher and/or Mr. Rogich did not feel it necessary to shorten the notes, but allowed for lengthy ones, and thankfully right at the bottom of the page. The Treatise itself touches most of the spiritual concepts that one might be concerned about: meekness, sexuality, gluttony, mourning, vainglory, asceticism, etc. As usual, St. Gregory is very insightful and profound. This book, however, is not really a good beginners introduction to Orthodox thought on these matters, but is more for those who already have built a solid spiritual foundation by living an Orthodox life.	2005-07-02
US	43351627	R3OYCMOHL93C19	0964914158	844675954	Two Paths: Papal Monarchy - Collegial Tradition	Books	3	32	33	N	N	Quick Overview of Orthodox Position	The strongest point of this book is that it gets a lot of information into a book that isn't overly lengthy or complicated. I'd guesstimate that the book comes in at under 45,000 words, so we're talking about a book that one could easily read in a night's sitting. The information contained in the book, however, might take much longer to digest if you don't already subscribe to the beliefs put forward. The book is, essentially, an Orthodox apologetic against the idea that the Pope of Rome holds special powers (supremacy, infallibility) simply because he is the successor of Peter, sits on Peter's throne, presides over the Roman See, or for some other such reason. The book does a good job at touching a lot of historical evidences through the centuries that help put the papal doctrines into a proper context. It also touches upon what are--from an Orthodox perspective--other dogmatic Roman Catholic errors. <br /> <br />The problem with any Orthodox apologetic regarding the papal doctrines is that the Orthodox view is harder to define than the Catholic one. Orthodoxy can come off looking vague, or even plain chaotic, compared to the highly systematic and well proof-texted beliefs of Roman Catholics. As someone who converted to Orthodoxy and not Catholicism, I obviously was persuaded by the Orthodox thought on the matter. But, I have to admit that it is not an easy case to make to those who are on the outside looking in. This is not to say that there are no evidences in support of the Orthodox position: quite the contrary, there is a ton of evidence, and Mr. Whelton mentions some of it in this book. The problem is that there are no \\"big guns,\\" so to speak; there are no evidences that just knock you on your feet. Put another way, Orthodox are many times on the defensive rather than the offensive, trying to explain why so-and-so didn't really mean what it appears that he said, or why such-and-such really doesn't matter in the whole scheme of things.  <br /> <br />A truly exhaustive Orthodox apologetic (I've never seen one) would take volumes upon volumes. Mr. Whelton spends about 30 pages discussing the Ecumenical Councils; but an entire volume could easily be filled discussing the Ecumenical Councils vis-a-vis papal supremacy from an Orthodox perspective. Mr. Whelton did well to keep things short--it kept it readable for everyone, and out of the realm where only egg-headed academics would be able to follow along. However, while brevity can be a virtue, some (e.g., egg-heads like me) might also like a bit more evidence on the subject. I believe that Mr. Whelton succeeds at what he intended to do; but what he intended should not be mistaken for a scholarly, exhaustive treatment. <br /> <br />The only other comment I would make is that some people (particularly Catholics) have found this book to be too polemical. They believe that Mr. Whelton has an axe to grind, and that this diminishes his credibility. All I can say about that is, it would be a rare thing indeed if someone was having his beliefs refuted by an apologetical defense and *didn't* think it polemical. Most Orthodox I know think the same thing about Catholic apologetics defending the papacy, written by people like Steve Ray, Dave Armstrong, et al.	2005-07-02
US	43351627	R3VZ9PFX5Z8QI6	0943670004	441971612	On the Mystagogy of the Holy Spirit (English and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Most Authoritative Work on the Subject	This work by Saint Photius (891) has stood the test of time as the single most important work on the issue of the Filioque from an (Eastern) Orthodox Christian perspective. Virtually every argument used by Orthodox Christians since that time in debates with Roman Catholics and Protestants on this issue was touched upon by St. Photius in this work. For anyone wishing to understanding the traditional Orthodox position on the Filioque, and why the Orthodox think the issue so important, this book is irreplacable. There are also some other interesting subjects discussed in this treatise, such as what to do when Church Fathers get doctrines (and even dogmas) wrong. It really does examine the issue from a variety of perspectives. <br /> <br />This edition/translation also has an epitome of the work, which is helpful to go back over a few times to help recall to mind the main arguments of the work. The Mystagogy is also provided in Greek in this book. The Introduction by Fr. Michael Azkoul is somewhat polemical, but then so is the text by St. Photius itself. There is also a Life of St. Photius included, which is a great text written by one of the best Orthodox theologians of the 20th century, St. Justin Popovich.	2005-07-02
US	43351627	R2JNMTD35ASMJY	0140445358	514751038	The History of the Church: From Christ to Constantine (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	106	107	N	N	Required Reading For Anyone Interested in Christian History	This book is one of the foundational works of  Christian history. It was the first extensive, systematic attempt to present Christian history up till the author's time (4th century). In the centuries following the work of Eusebius, many other authors attempted Histories, including Sulpitius Severus, Hermias Sozomen,  Socrates Scholasticus, Theodoret, Evagrius Scholasticus, John of Ephesus, Gennadius of Marseilles, Isidore of Seville, Bede the Venerable, and others (just to list the major attempts through the 7th century). But none of these authors--and some would argue that none since--achieved what Eusebius did in his Ecclesiastical History. In fact, many didn't even try, and simply picked up the history of the Christian Church at the point where Eusebius had left off.  <br /> <br />Eusebius is sometimes accused of being biased, but then everyone is biased. It is true that he might not have followed the strict standards followed by many modern historians (to expect that he would as some objectors do is totally anachonistic), but one thing is for sure, Eusebius was not simply a cheerleader for his own personal beliefs, nor someone who would gloss over differences or arguments within the Church. If someone wants a specific example (and one that isn't a small issue), one could read over his overview of how the Scriptural Canon was compiled and debated.  <br /> <br />When it came to the Epistle of James from the New Testamnet, for instance, Eusebius at one point calls it \\"the so-called epistle of James\\" and says that it is \\"Among the disputed writings, which are nevertheless recognized by many\\" (Eusebius, Ecclesiastical History, 3, 25). In another place Eusebius is speaking of James of Jerusalem, who was the first bishop of the Christian Church there; Eusebius says that James \\"is said to be the author of the first of the so-called catholic epistles. But it is to be observed that it is disputed; at least, not many of the ancients have mentioned it... Nevertheless we know that [The Epistle of James] also, with the rest, have been read publicly in very many churches.\\"(Eusebius, History, 2, 23) <br /> <br />This is a very good book for anyone interested in Christian History, especially if you are interested in how the actual figures in that history saw their predecessors, and not just in reading the summaries and compilations (and unfortunately, many times, wild speculations) of 19th and 20th century historians. One could also argue that his History, while perhaps a bit more biased in that it was written by a Christian for Christians, was also in some ways closer to the truth than histories today which might technically be more factual. <br /> <br />I know this sounds contradictory, but here is what I mean. Descartes said (rightly) that \\"history\\" as we perceive it was for the most part distorted, since history left out most of the minor, mundane thoughts and events of life and focused on the important or sensational aspects of life. History is therefore distorted in that it doesn't tell us about the lives and cultures of people, but only about what their leaders or generals or other great and important men did. Eusebius is someone who included some of everyday stuff in his History. It might not wow people, but it serves a much more important purpose: to put the great events into perspective. Great events and people are only great when compared to others, after all. And in that way, we can also say that Eusebius is indeed great.	2005-06-30
US	43351627	R1KRJTMGDG78BW	0525938915	733590776	Losing It: America's Obsession with Weight and the Industry that Feedson It	Books	3	10	15	N	N	One Person's Opinion	This book seems to be painted as some type of Expose' by some, but it's really more accurately described as one person's opinion. Actually, the book rather reminds me of the recent movie Supersize Me, in that it can be entertaining, and does have some facts to back up the content, but in the end is not really journalism or science, but is commentary. No one is perfectly objective, but there is a wide gulf between something like a science journal article and a book like this. That isn't to say that the book is worthless, of course; but only that it shouldn't be taken as the last word on the subject. Or the most important word. <br /> <br />Laura Fraser is a slightly overweight, city-dwelling, liberal, probably somewhat spiritual, somewhat iconoclastic, writer. She had some interesting experiences with weight early in life, and she still struggles with some of those issues that began decades ago. In a way, saying that is merely repeating what Laura Fraser herself says in the book. However, it needs repeating because more than once she goes into a somewhat polemical mode in which everything is painted in black and white, leaving no room for grey. In those cases, it's important to know where she's coming from, and where she wants to take us (the readers). For example, that food and diet industry tries to milk money out of consumers is undoubtedly true: ALL businesses try to milk as much money out of consumers as they think they can. For better or worse, that's capitalism. But, that these same companies are as hell-bent on trapping people in vicious cycles, creating problems that they can then provide solutions to, etc. seems a bit less likely. Leastwise, it's hard to believe that there are so many people out to get less than ideally weighted women, as Laura Fraser seems to believe.  <br /> <br />Overall I liked the book, though it had a certain unevenness to it. I don't just mean that it started somewhat slow--history is often like that, no matter who the author. By uneven, I meant that the best and most insightful parts were the ones which were most personal (e.g., overviews of when she personally met people like Richard Simmons and Susan Powter); and oddly enough, the worse parts (often seeming more like diatribes than anything) were the ones in which she probably genuinely tried to be most objective and provide references to scientific findings. So, I guess I would have enjoyed the book more had it been more openly subjective, providing commentary, and tried less to be something scientific or journalistic. In the end it just came off as subjective pseudo-science, neither having the power and persuasion of personal testimony, nor the persuasive factualness of hard evidence. <br /> <br />I think the book is a good counter-weight of sorts to some of the information that we get bombarded with as consumers--but then no information can necessary be taken as the last word we need on a subject. As an example, the book is decidedly anti-fasting. And many recent studies seem to support the idea that many smaller meals are better than great lengths of time between meals. Yet I have also seen studies which praise the healthy and cleansing benefits of fasting, and my own religious tradition (Eastern Orthodox) has been fasting since that Jesus fellow told his disciples to do it a few thousand years ago. The answer to the problems raised in this book probably can be found somewhere between the black painted by the food and diet industries and the white painted by Laura Fraser.	2005-05-16
US	43351627	R17H8IEBY9ZS76	0761547819	831458347	Rome: Total War (Prima Official Game Guide)	Books	1	21	21	N	N	Waste of Money	Don't waste your money on this guide, it's full of fluff, needless information, and false advertising. The back of the  guide gives five bulleted statements, intended to make you want to buy Prima's offering: <br /> <br />* FULLY DETAILED CAMPAIGN MAP <br />* IMPERIAL CAMPAIGN TIPS AND STRATEGIES <br />* BATTLEFIELD TIPS AND STRATEGIES <br />* VALUABLE UNIT AND STRUCTURE STATISTICS FOR ALL FACTIONS <br />* WINNING TIPS AND STRATEGIES FOR HISTORICAL BATTLES <br /> <br />The first statement (despite claims to the contrary in another review) is misleading. It is obvious from the context that  the statement is talking about the guide and not the game. That's what the back cover in a case like this is suppose to be,  an advertisement for the information inside! Sometimes they give summary blurbs, sometimes bulleted information, but  whatever the case, it is talking about the guide in your hand, not the game in your computer. But the guide most certainly  does NOT have a \\"Fully Detailed Campaign Map\\". As others have pointed out, the game itself comes with a color map that  measures 12 by 18 inches; and all that is in the guide is a blurry, very small, 7 1/2 by 4 1/2 inch map in black and white.  Ironically the map on the back cover of the guide (the part you can see anyway), which is not meant to give information so  much as serve as part of the advertisement, is actually a lot CLEARER than the map in the actual guide. The real kicker is  that they put \\"Fully Detailed Campaign Map\\" first in the order, and in a much larger font, than the other bulleted  statements. As though this were the guide's main selling point! Incredible. <br /> <br />The next statement said \\"Imperial Campaign Tips and Strategies\\". As others have said, though, you will be hard-pressed to  find any of this in the actual guide. Real tips and strategies would have been information like: <br /> <br />\\"Besides a penalty for having a different culture, the further a conquered city is from your capital themore unhappy the  citizens will be. Therefore, if you have a family member who has attributes which help him keep public order, place him in  this type of large, foreign city.\\" <br /> <br />Instead, what we get is a lot of repeating what the manual said, with some elementary additions that most people who play  strategy games would know anyway. And in a great game like Rome, you can't even give them the benefit of the doubt by  saying that maybe the info is for people new to strategy games. Rome gives all the information necessary for new people to  know what to do in situations like that. For example, in a case like public disorder, you can right-click on your buildings  and see exactly how much they can improve the order, you can easily change the taxes and instantaneously see the difference  it makes on happiness, and you can go to the city's details and find out the exact reasons for unhappiness in the city. It  even tells you how much of a problem each factor is causing, like saying \\"Squalor: 20%; Culture Penalty: 50%; etc.\\"  Now, a  REAL tip would have been to explain why, for example, having 80 soldiers can sometimes have the same effect on unrest as  having 160 soldiers. Is the ability of a garrison to pacify the people based on the \\"tier\\" the city is on, the population,  the types of soldiers, a mix of factors, or what? <br /> <br />The third statement is: \\"Battlefield Tips and Strategies\\". This is similar to what I said about about the imperial tips, but Prima is a little better here. Some of the strategies, while simplistic, are at least good to repeat. There is also some good information here, like the explaining of the different formations, or listing all the factors that can effect troop morale, but this good content unfortunately does not go on for very long. They do have something called \\"Ten Tips For Victory,\\" which gives ten short statements about good strategy. While the tips aren't anything particularly deep and are pretty basic (stategically speaking), it is at least an attempt. If only they would have put more of an effort to going outside of Instruction Guide mode more often in other areas, I might have given the guide two stars. <br /> <br />The fourth bulleted statement said: \\"Valuable Unit and Structure Statistics For All Factions\\". I'll first say that I was somewhat let down that they didn't have a chart with all the unit information on it. They spend over fifty pages giving information about the units, but none of it is new. It is basically the same info that the game itself gives you by simply right-clicking on a unit. So in the end, all this information in the guide comes off as nothing more than filler. If the information had been compiled into a chart, it at least could have served the purpose of being a quick reference when comparing the strenths and weaknesses of various units. For example, you might be in the middle of a battle, and have several units with axes (which are good against armor), so you would want to know the status of the armor on various enemy units so as to determine who best to attack next; a graph could have given this information to you within seconds. But as it is, you are forced to first find the right faction (they are not really set apart very well), and then look up each unit's armor one by one.  <br /> <br />This fourth statement is also misleading. It does NOT have structure statistics for all factions, as it claims. In fact, it has structure statistics for only 11 of the 19 factions, with the rationale being that you can't play the other 8 factions. Well, first, this is only half true because you can conquer a foreign city and therefore will take over their buildings. So knowing the statistics of their buildings (even if you can't start a game as that faction) could still be relevant. Of course, you could just right-click on the building to get it's statistics, but then the same argument would make almost ALL the information in this book superfluous as it's almost all in the game. This is not to say that a guide has no purpose at all. One of the few things that a guide can provide is a way of comparing and contrasting different buildings, units, etc.; unfortunately Prima didn't seem to want to go that route.  <br /> <br />Whatever the case may be, in the end, Prima decided to exclude the structure statistics for 8 factions, so it is misleading to say that the guide contains \\"Valuable unit and structure statistics for all factions\\". They should have inserted the word \\"playable\\": they have statistics for all playable factions.  <br /> <br />The last bulleted statement said that the guide contained \\"Winning Tips and Strategies For Historical Battles,\\" and it is only in this area that the guide rises even to an acceptable level. Unfortunately, it is too little and too late. By the time you get to this section, you have already went through 165 pages of mostly fluff, filler, and information that was in the instruction booklet that came with the game. The sad thing is that even the information that they tried to give is incomplete. They had a section on the unit statistics of barbarian mercenaries, for example, but then left out information about half the mercenary units in the game! There is no mention of Libyan Mercenaries, Samnite Mercenaries, Mercenary Hoplites, Mercenary Peltasts, Barbarian Mercenaries, or other such units.  <br /> <br />Rome: Total War is a very good strategy game. It will probably be the game I play most until Age of Empires 3 (and especially Civilization 4) come out later this year or early next year. But a good game does not equate to a good guide (as the other guy seemed to think, for some reason). So my conclusion is that it would be best to skip this game guide and spend your money on something else; Most of the information you need is already in the game, and the rest you can figure out on your own.	2005-05-07
