US	43387097	RHVNT6VMLQVSR	0028632028	169698780	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Handwriting Analysis	Books	5	7	9	N	N	More of a complete guide than a complete idiot's guide.	More of a complete guide than a complete idiot's guide, this is the best of several books on this subject I've read.  The writing is lively and easy to read, yet still covers the gamut of graphology.  The book is more geared towards graphology as a career or business than other books are, which may or may not matter to you.  Personally, I bypassed these parts since it is only a hobby to me.  But it's a bonus if you're that serious about graphology, with lots of info for you.  <br />After renting it at the library, I chose to buy it before I was even done reading it simply because I could see that there was lots of material there that I would want to spend a while absorbing thoroughly and that even then, I would want to keep it for reference.  The main benefit I find in handwriting analysis is self-awareness.  I notice changes in myself, temporary or permanent better by understanding the signs my writing shows.  I have even modified my own writing to project a more desirable image of myself on paper, and more importantly, to help make my personality how I want it to be as opposed to leaving it to chance.  I don't think the book included enough information about this, but I'm not complaining.  Going through this book, I learned a LOT more and reinforced what I already knew and came up with a list of features to change in my writing.  I work on one feature at a time, going on to the next one when the last one has become more or less habit.  <br />Even though few people know the slightest thing about graphology, still, your writing projects an intuitive image about you.  Is it messy, ungraceful, and illegible?  Or is it harmonious, artistic, and healthy looking, flowing right along the page?  So the main benefit I find is for myself.  I find that I learn more about others just by watching them and getting to know them, as you can't always get a good handwriting sample, especially in the computer age.  As for others, the main thing I use it for is analyzing my friends' handwriting.  It's fun!<br />The main things she stresses throughout the entire book, and rightly so, is that ideal, healthy writing is balanced, and that in analyzing don't look at one sign, but take each sign into the context of the entire sample.  Other books are more objective, not judging any characteristic in writing as good or bad, only saying what exactly it means.  But she successfully used subjectivity to good use here.  This is another reason I think she should have written more about the subject of changing ones handwriting to change themselves-- she makes it very clear what the handwriting looks like.  There is a little leeway , but in general she stresses balance and moderation, and gives many bad, \\"warning\\" signs that one would want to avoid.  Overall, I highly recommend it as the best book on the subject I've ever read, out of several.	2002-07-10
US	43387097	R1RNJW00MMXP9Z	0670888656	732800244	Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (Whole Story)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Basic, classic, short- relevant themes.	This book provides a great read considering how few pages it is. The plot itself is entertaining, at least the first time you read it.  It's a compelling mystery that is finally solved as the clues are put together.  Subsequent readings proved to be more bland, as I already knew the solution of the mystery, which is a big part of the book.  Reading about the ending may spoil it for you, but I think it will still be worth your time to read about it unfolding for yourself.<br />Dr. Jekyll is a rich, respected doctor who nonetheless has needs within himself that are socially unacceptable.  He indulges in this part of him, Mr. Hyde, by taking a drug he devised.  This way, he can attempt to satisfy these desires while still being able to come back to being the respected Dr. Jekyll.  Eventually, the sickness of Mr. Hyde grows to be too much for Jekyll to take, so he decides to do away with Hyde.  However, we see that those desires and his enjoyment of Hyde aren't totally gone, because he keeps a place and everything for Hyde.  Eventually, Jekyll mutates into Hyde against his will, without even taking the drug, and this marks the beginning of the end of Dr. Jekyll.    <br />Hyde is a symbol of anti-social desires within us, the \\"Id\\" as Freud called it.  Hyde can also symbolize an addiction, avarice, hatred, or any other vice.  Hyde is a thing that people may discover and try to play with behind closed doors (Mr. \\"Hide\\").  The lesson is that we can't play with the animal nature of ourselves without becoming that animal, as the difference between Hyde and Jekyll grew blurrier throughout the book until there almost was no difference.  It eventually can take control over us and no longer stay hidden.  Similar themes are found in \\"Frankenstein.\\"	2002-07-07
US	43387097	R30GKQQP7V217P	1893224546	477056924	The Theory of Everything: The Origin and Fate of the Universe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Makes complex ideas much easier to understand.	This book is basically a history and philosophy about chemistry, physics, and especially astronomy.  Ideas discussed in this book are very complex, yet broken down very well into understandable chunks.  Still, a general backround in the physical sciences is necessary to really grasp what he's saying.  One way he makes ideas understandable is by using simple analogies.  For example, he is talking about how as the universe expands, all bodies around the earth move away from it, making it seem like we really are the center of the universe.  However, he clears this up by offering the analogy of a balloon being blown up that has dots all over it.  From the perspective of any dot, all the other dots are moving away from it and there really is no center.  I found it to be a fast read, but one that I wanted to go over once again just to understand things better.	2002-06-20
US	43387097	R2G6EE88XQL307	0465069347	64542062	The Republic of Plato: Second Edition	Books	5	7	14	N	N	The classic discussion of what justice is and how it works.	Plato's purpose here is to find the definition and nature of justice such as whether the just man is happier than the unjust man.  I found that the dictionary says little more than \\"doing what's right\\" which doesn't say much.<br />The discussion opens with conventional definitions for justice that anyone might come up with such as \\"speaking the truth and giving back what one takes.\\"  But consider borrowing a weapon from a friend who asks for it back in a violent state of mind.  Similarly, there can be times when telling the truth is wrong.<br />That definition seems wrong because it implies that you may have to harm a friend.  So the second definition offered is that justice is benefiting your friends and harming your enemies.  But this definition turns out to make justice useless because with matters of health, the doctor, not the just man, is most capable of benefiting friends and harming enemies.  Furthermore, the doctor is useless to those who aren't sick.  This definition really collapses when we consider that we may mistake people's true natures and be enemies with good people.  Then it would be just to harm good people.  Besides, harming a person makes him worse and this can't be justice. All this leaves in the definition is to benefit all people, which doesn't really say anything.  Plato did not mean that punishing is harming them because then the purpose is to make them better.  However, Nietzsche said that the purpose of punishment is to improve those--who punish.<br />The argument that justice is giving what is owed will be salvaged, however through this example:  Cooking gives what is owed to food and learning gives what is owed to the mind.  An example not used in the book is borrowing money with interest.  You would owe the bank more than you borrowed, and owe it back within an specified time.  This shows \\"giving what is owed\\" is more accurate than \\"giving back what one takes.\\"  This definition seems right, but hazy.<br />The next definition Plato proposes is \\"Might is Right\\", or obeying authority.  The obvious fault here is that leaders make mistakes.  Hairsplitting arguments follow which support the argument.  The true doctor heals people and does not raise children or make money.  A doctor only does those things inasmuch as he is also a parent and wage earner.  A ruler acts in the best interest of those ruled and a citizen obeys the rulers.  When the rulers fail in their duty, they are not truly rulers and the citizens should not obey them.  This idea along with giving what one owes will come together for the definition.  The discussion now moves toward the effects of justice and injustice.<br />The question comes up whether injustice can be good for a person to practice, if they can seem just and \\"get away with it.\\"  Plato describes tyranny as the most extreme injustice, \\"which by stealth and force, takes away what belongs to others, both what is sacred and profane, private and public, not bit by bit but all at once.\\"  The reader will later see tyranny to be the worst state and the tyrannic man to be the most unhappy.<br />The just man, the discussion goes, would be willing but unable to get the better of the unjust man but unwilling to get the better of the just man.  The unjust man would be willing and able to get the better of both.  Even gangs must have some justice in order for them to function because injustice breeds factions and quarrels.  Unjust people working alone would be at faction within themselves.  Plato then begins an analogy that the eyes can only do what they were meant to do if they have the virtue of seeing, whereas their vice would be blindness.  He extends this analogy to mean that the virtue of the soul is justice, the vice injustice and that what the soul was meant to do was be happy.  Like many of the analogies in this book, we may wonder whether the comparison is fairly drawn.  At this point, little has really been concluded because before we can determine whether justice is a virtue or vice or the one who has it is happy or unhappy, justice itself must be defined.  To define it, Plato looks to the ideal state, where it should be easier to observe than in an individual.<br />The purpose of creating a state was so that each person didn't have to farm his own food, make his own clothes, etc. In The Republic, each person has a function to serve-- one skill they excel in.  They don't meddle in fields that aren't their own.  Justice in this state lies in the relation the three classes of ruler, guardian, and craftsmen have to each other.  Bringing this back to the individual, the classes correspond with wisdom, emotion, and desire, respectively.  The just man's mind should be ordered just like the just state.  If there is a conflict between desire and wisdom, emotion should take the side of wisdom.  Plato now goes into more detail about why tyranny is the most unjust and unhappy state. It is because the worst parts are enslaved by the best parts; the desires are in control of the wisdom and emotion.  The tyrant purges the city of the courageous, intelligent, etc. \\"Throughout his entire life his is full of fear, overflowing with convulsions and pains, indeed resembles the disposition of the city he rules.\\"<br />Plato concludes that justice is beneficial for its own sake regardless of reputation or \\"being caught\\".  Plato's definition is convincing yet hardly what I expected.  We all have our own sense of justice despite lacking a definition of it.  My philosophy is that injustice is harmful to the doer and others as well and vice versa.  For example, a drunk driver could kill themselves and others as well.  \\"The Republic\\" stands as the best tangible description of what justice is.e or vice or the one who has it is happy or unhappy, justice itself must be defined.  To define it, Plato looks to the ideal state, where it should be easier to observe than in an individual.<br />The purpose of creating a state was so that each person didn't have to farm his own food, make his own clothes, etc. In The Republic, each person has a function to serve-- one skill they excel in.  They don't meddle in fields that aren't their own.  Justice in this state lies in the relation the three classes of ruler, guardian, and craftsmen have to each other.  Bringing this back to the individual, the classes correspond with wisdom, emotion, and desire, respectively.  The just man's mind should be ordered just like the just state.  If there is a conflict between desire and wisdom, emotion should take the side of wisdom.  Plato now goes into more detail about why tyranny is the most unjust and unhappy state. It is because the worst parts are enslaved by the best parts; the desires are in control of the wisdom and emotion.  The tyrant purges the city of the courageous, intelligent, etc. \\"Throughout his entire life his is full of fear, overflowing with convulsions and pains, indeed resembles the disposition of the city he rules.\\"<br />Plato concludes that justice is beneficial for its own sake regardless of reputation or \\"being caught\\".  Plato's definition is convincing yet hardly what I expected.  We all have our own sense of justice despite lacking a definition of it.  My philosophy is that injustice is harmful to the doer and others as well and vice versa.  For example, a drunk driver could kill themselves and others as well.  \\"The Republic\\" stands as the best tangible description of what justice is.	2002-06-06
US	43387097	R6E43CQO3XZAW	0962994235	939376168	Your Body's Many Cries for Water	Books	4	15	22	N	N	So simple, so effective.	We all know that we should drink 8 glasses of water a day and this book explains why.  The book is based on the paradigm shift that it is water that governs all funtions of the body, not the solid matter.  Previously, it was assumed that water (the solvent) was only a means of transport for the more vital solute.  Because water makes up 75% of our bodies and it is vital to every function, Dr. &quot;Batman&quot; says, dehydration is the cause of many ailments, from depression to high blood pressure to insomnia, to headaches.  He says a dry mouth is one of the last signs of dehydration.  The solution, therefore, is simple-- just drink water.  He says that many of these ailments are often treated with medications, which therefore are really only treating the symptom and not the cause, not to mention that side-effects are added with meds.<br />As other reviewers have mentioned, his last chapter on AIDS seems out of place in this book.  I didn't read the book all the way through, preferring to just skim through it because of its detailed and technincal nature.  You may not want to read it at all and just prefer to take his, and the reviewers', word for it and simply drink more water.  I give the idea a solid 5 stars but I give the book 4 stars because of the style and structure of the writing.  I think it could have used an index, as well as info on water impurities such as what is really in tap water and whether it might be good to buy a water filter since the reader will be drinking so much of the stuff.  I've read info about bottled water that wasn't even included here.  They say bottled water is no better than tap water, and actually often contains more germs.  Also, it costs many times more than tap water.  <br />I'm sure his idea of water works on animals and plants too.  Make sure your pets get plenty of water and your houseplants/ garden as well.  I know someone who has a swimming pool with bushes on both sides of it.  On one side, a hill leads down to the bushes, on the other side, the hill goes down from the bushes.  The bushes that are on the bottom of the hill have significantly more growth and look healthier, greener.  It's because the hill draws more water towards them, while on the other side of the pool, the water is pulled away from the bushes by the hill.	2002-06-02
US	43387097	R2W6KTQBMC3FD0	0671023373	104801902	Man's Search For Meaning	Books	3	13	23	N	N	Insightful, but incomplete.  I disagree on some key points.	In \\"Man's Search for Meaning,\\" Victor Frankl provides an introduction to existentialism and logotherapy.  Based on his experiences in the concentration camps during World War 2, he says that life's meaning comes from within and that life does not cease to have meaning just because of suffering.<br />He asked fellow prisoners why they did not commit suicide and he got responses such as they had a talent to be used, or a loved one waiting, or they had memories worth preserving.  But how many people try to avoid death and don't commit suicide because they fear death?   <br />Frankl says that if there is a purpose in life at all, there must therefore be a purpose in suffering and dying.  I don't think agree with that line of reasoning.  If life is purposeful, then isn't death likely to be unpurposeful?  Maybe there are \\"purposes\\" in suffering and dying but are they necessarily in our interest?  The purpose of murder might be revenge, but that meaning doesn't benefit the victim.   \\"Without suffering and death, life cannot be complete,\\" he writes on page 76.    WHAT?! Could some cases of searching for meaning in suffering and dying be rationalization?  Frankl says to search through suffering and find how good can come of it, making the suffering more bearable.  \\"Suffering ceases to be suffering the moment it finds meaning,\\" he says.  But I think it would be better still for good to come on its own and not through suffering.  Finally, I think Frankl's statement that death gives life meaning contradicts his other beliefs.  He is against suicide and helped his fellow prisoners to find meaning in life so they would keep living, yet he says life isn't complete without death.  So if in his day, technology and medicine allowed man the option to live forever, would Frankl turn this down and allow himself to die?  Wouldn't this be the same as commiting suicide?  <br />Frankl's Logotheraply proposes that many neuroses are caused by a failure of the sufferer to find meaning and sense of responsibility in his existence.   Logotherapy is based on the belief that search for meaning is the primary motivation of man and not a \\"secondary rationalization\\" of instictual drives, defense mechanisms, reaction formations, or sublimations.  He backs this up by saying that people live and die for their beliefs and values.  <br />He says that life is so valuable that it is worth living no matter how great the suffering may be, and finding meaning can pull man through any amount of suffering.  He's against mercy killings and euthanasia for that reason.  So if someone has a wasting, uncurable, terminatable illness, they should live out their natural life, he says.  Or if someone has Alzheimer's disease, knowing who no one is, including themself, eats their meals through a straw, and has their diaper changed by a nurse-- they should be kept alive as long as possible.  He says that we shouldn't confuse how much a person contributes to society with how much they are worth to it.  Personally, I found insufficient information in the reading to convince me that there is a difference.  The inference of these ideas is that human life is sacred and all humans are equal.  What about animals?  They can feel pain too.  On the other hand, there are some humans who are in some condition that's it's like they don't even know they are alive, such as retardation, being comatose, etc and there are humans who do not want to be alive.  As Frankl himself writes in the same book, being useful is equated with being meaningful and vice versa.  So shouldn't we all seek to be useful in society to make our lives meaninful?  <br />As he noticed in the concentration camps, hope and courage were what kept people in the camps alive.  Those who lost hope and courage would commit suicide or succumb to disease.  Frankl quotes Nietzche, \\"He who has a why to live can bear with almost any how.\\"  In \\"The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People\\", Stephen Covey noted that our ability to do anythingis determined by knowing what to do, how to do it, and why to do it.  Frankl's book stresses the \\"why\\"-- the motivation, the reason and meaning, to live.<br />He says that people shouldn't focus on what they expect from life, but rather what life expects from them.  To Frankl, the meaning of life is different for each person.  To ask for a general, abstract meaning of life is like asking a chess Grandmaster what the greatest move in the world is, he writes.  <br />The last part of the book is devoted to a very brief intro to logotherapudic methods.  \\"Hyper-intention\\" is how fear can bring to pass what we are afraid of or how trying too hard for something can prevent it from happening.  To alleviate this problem, the author proposes to simply relax the hyper-intention.  For example, to cure sleeplessness, try to stay awake.  To achieve sexual orgasm, don't worry about it and instead focus on your partner.  He says many neurotics aggravate their problems by trying to fight them.  By learning to laugh at themselves, he says, neurotics can be on their way to a cure.  <br />As for the pursuit of happiness, Frankl urges the reader to pursue a REASON to be happy, just as to make someone laugh you must give him a reason to (tell him a joke).  He notes that these days many people have enough to live by but nothing to live for-- they have the means but no meaning.  In the future, as automation puts more time in people's hands, many will be in the \\"existential vacuum\\", faced with the lack of meaning in their lives when they aren't occupied with work or labor.  <br />Overall, I think this is an insightful book but I disagree with certain parts.	2002-05-24
US	43387097	R3B2Z3DI6KFVP9	0451527712	655343360	Frankenstein (Signet Classics)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	it was good.	yeah i liked this book.  i read it and it was good	2002-03-31
US	43387097	RDXK8CXST296S	0764585932	360167715	CliffsNotes on Shelley's Frankenstein (Cliffsnotes Literature Guides)	Books	3	1	22	N	N	uh huh.	yep.  uh huh.  you bet.  this book was nice. i red it.	2002-03-31
US	43387097	R3CJ7SWO1LANJZ	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Greatest Novel Ever?	There's so much critique-wise that could be said of this book.  It's an entertaining, interesting story.  The characters are so well-developed and their actions and words so consistent and unique throughout the novel that they seem so real.  This is something most novels lack.  Fitzgerald brings even the minor characters to life.  The imagery and symbols are intricate, both serving to further the theme.  The symbols are an integral part of the story, like Gatsby's car, which characterizes him as ostentatious and symbolically leads to his death.  The characters themselves are symbolic.  The story serves as a historical document of the 20's.  The thematic material applies as much to our present society as it did back then.  It is condensed, fitting so much meaning into each page, each sentence, each phrase.  Much of the wording of the book is so memorable, so quotable, even magical.  The Preface, Publisher's Afterward, and the Explanatory notes of this edition, as well as Cliff's Notes are very helpful to understand and appreciate this novel.<br />The basic theme is that of the American Dream.  Jay Gatsby is defined by his dream to win Daisy Buchanan, a popular, beautiful, but superficial girl.  To win her, he needs exorbitant sums of money which he gains through corruption.  Gatsby has all the \\"toys\\"-- a mansion, a Rolls-Royce, a hydroplane, and connections to people like Meyer Wolfsheif who fixed the 1919 World Series.  Dan Cody circling the continent aimlessly in his yacht as he falls victim to alcohol shows that money is not an end in itself.  Gatsby is different because money is only a means to an end for him; still, he fails.  This book shows the harmful effects of a wide gap between the rich and the poor.  The wealthy Buchanan's are not productive at all and the poor Wilson struggles to survive and is pushed around by Tom Buchanan.  This book shows that such extreme wealth as Gatsby's and the Buchanan's leads to waste.  Gatsby has a pool he only uses once all summer.  He drives a Rolls-Royce which can cost over 300 grand in today's money.  Daisy drives the car and accidentally kills Wilson's wife who was having an affair with Tom Buchanan, Daisy's husband.  Tom manipulates Wilson into thinking Gatsby killed her and Wilson shoots him then turns the gun on himself.  The major theme of the novel is that \\"money isn't real\\" as the movie \\"Blow\\" put it.  The material world is illusion, in other words.  I've heard it said that \\"You can't buy happiness but you can rent it.\\"  If that's true, then it helps explain Gatsby's failure-- he tried to, and thought he did, buy it.<br />Gatsby's boyhood program for self-improvement as revealed by his dad at the ending is just like Ben Franklin's autobiography.  Two self-help books I've read and reviewed negatively are \\"How to Win Friends and Influence People\\" by Dale Carnegie and \\"Awaken the Giant Within\\" by Anthony Robbins.  After reading Gatsby it seemed as though these two books were studied and practiced thoroughly by Jay Gatsby.<br />First off, Gatsby's mannerisms resemble what is recommended in \\"Win Friends.\\"  Gatsby is very indirect.  He can't just go directly to Daisy or even directly to Nick to arrange the meeting between he and Daisy.  He has Jordan tell Nick about the background between them then has Nick invite Daisy over to his house (he's Gatsby's neighbor) and tells him to tell her not to bring her husband.  Gatsby then disappears outside when she comes and knocks on the back door.  He must have looked like an idiot to Daisy being so ridiculously  indirect and obvious like this.  Gatsby even bought his house in the neighborhood of Daisy for this reason.  Another aspect of Win Friends is to smile-- whether you are truthfully happy or not to charm other people into liking you.  Consider Nick's description of Gatsby's smile, \\"It was one of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it.  It faced--or seemed to face-- the whole external world for an instant, and then concentrated on you, with an irresistible prejudice in your favor.  It understood you just so far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe in yourself and assured you that it had precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to convey.  Precisely at that point it vanished--and I was looking at an elegant young roughneck...whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd.\\"  As is advised to do in \\"Win Friends\\", Gatsby makes other people feel special like the way he calls everyone \\"old sport.\\"  But keep in mind Gatsby has no real friends and everyone but Nick merely uses him.  They flocked to his mansion by the hundred for his parties but only a few people were at his funeral.<br />The other Jay Gatsby handbook is \\"Awaken the Giant Within\\" by Anthony Robbins.  I once saw Tony on TV and Jay Gatsby came to my mind before I realized it was him.  I saw Tony's signature before and it was signed in a \\"majestic hand\\" just like Gatsby's writing on the note of invitation to his party to Nick.  Throughout his book, Robbins writes of his accomplishments of making money and buying all the ostentatious \\"toys\\" like Gatsby has.  Both men's obsession with materialism is so intense as to almost take on a spiritual level.  Comparing \\"The Great Gatsby\\" to these two books and the movies \\"Blow\\" and \\"Casino\\" are just some ways you can understand how Gatsby relates to our world now even though it was written about the 1920's.<br />I don't feel a review of a 1000 word limit can possibly do justice to this novel.  To appreciate it yourself, all the more I can say is read it, read Cliff's notes, think about it, read it again, and observe how the theme relates to the world around you very much today.then concentrated on you, with an irresistible prejudice in your favor.  It understood you just so far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you would like to believe in yourself and assured you that it had precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to convey.  Precisely at that point it vanished--and I was looking at an elegant young roughneck...whose elaborate formality of speech just missed being absurd.\\"  As is advised to do in \\"Win Friends\\", Gatsby makes other people feel special like the way he calls everyone \\"old sport.\\"  But keep in mind Gatsby has no real friends and everyone but Nick merely uses him.  They flocked to his mansion by the hundred for his parties but only a few people were at his funeral.<br />The other Jay Gatsby handbook is \\"Awaken the Giant Within\\" by Anthony Robbins.  I once saw Tony on TV and Jay Gatsby came to my mind before I realized it was him.  I saw Tony's signature before and it was signed in a \\"majestic hand\\" just like Gatsby's writing on the note of invitation to his party to Nick.  Throughout his book, Robbins writes of his accomplishments of making money and buying all the ostentatious \\"toys\\" like Gatsby has.  Both men's obsession with materialism is so intense as to almost take on a spiritual level.  Comparing \\"The Great Gatsby\\" to these two books and the movies \\"Blow\\" and \\"Casino\\" are just some ways you can understand how Gatsby relates to our world now even though it was written about the 1920's.  <br />I don't feel a review of a 1000 word limit can possibly do justice to this novel.  To appreciate it yourself, all the more I can say is read it, read Cliff's notes, think about it, read it again, and observe how the theme relates to the world around you very much today.	2002-02-13
US	43387097	R3E0INBQDTG111	0764585932	360167715	CliffsNotes on Shelley's Frankenstein (Cliffsnotes Literature Guides)	Books	4	0	10	N	N	Frankenstein as a product of the Romantic Period.	Victor Frankenstein's creation had murdered members of his family and strangled to death his fiance on their wedding night fulfilling his threat to &quot;be with you on your wedding night&quot; and warned Victor, &quot;You are my creator but I am your master.&quot;  As Victor centered his life around creating the monster, he would later center it around hunting down and killing his creation.  This manhunt would expend Victor's life and prove his efforts futile to catch an untouchable and nameless monster.  This novel is full of enduring themes of ambition, friendship, and the conflict between the two, psychology, oppression and rebellion, the dangers of scientific and intellectual advancement, and societal injustice.  The writing itself isn't great but it's the story and the themes that make this a great classic.  <br />Shelley wrote this book influenced by the period of time in which she lived, the Romantic Period.  This was the response to the previous time, the Age of Enlightenment.  In the Age of Enlightenment, reasoning was deemed of utmost importance and people thought that there were natural laws and that reason plus these natural laws would equal progress.  By progress, they meant not only advancement, but unlimited advancement, that society would continue to move closer and closer to perfection.  In Frankenstein, we see the result of so much logic and reason- the creation of a monster.  In the story there seems to be no natural laws governing the world.   <br />When I think of what natural laws would govern the world, Justice comes to mind as the most important.  Throughout this whole story, justice is so dearly lacking.  Injustice leads to more injustice.  The monster is born into unforgiving circumstances that were not his fault.  His creator rejects him immediately.  Throughout his life, the monster found himself rejected by everyone for the repulsive looks his creator gave him.  The monster even suffered rejection of the impoverished family he ardentlyand sacrificially helped.  When he saved a girl from drowning, her father shot him.  The monster yearned desperately for a mate of his kind, which Victor denied him for fear the two would breed an entire race of fiends or that she, too would reject him and there would be two fiends.  Decide this debate between the monster and Victor for yourself.  Even if Victor was right to deny him a mate, it was still an injustice for the monster.  After all, the monster could not help the disadvantages he was born into and he strove mightily to be virtuous.  He exercised his will and responsibility strongly, but to no avail.  The poor thing begs for just one friend and he is denied this.  The innocent Justine (a play on the word &quot;Justice&quot;) is executed for the monster's crime; the monster eventually slays several innocent people he doesn't even know.  Injustice is what moves the plot of this book.<br />Shelley's novel disputes the importance and promise of natural laws, reasoning, and the idea of progress.  It introduces emotion and intuition.  Frankenstein studied laboriously but failed because he left the monster emotionally neglected and rejected.  When Victor first learns of the murder of an innocent member of his family, he intuitively knows it was the doing of the monster- he offers no reasoning or deduction as to how he knows.  The monster hounds Victor and seems to supernatually know where he is at all times.  <br />One of the many interpretations of Frankenstein is that it was a product of the Romantic Period, which was a response to the Age of Enlightenment.	2002-01-19
US	43387097	R1ZX48JKWV7Q63	0452269687	18766604	The Essential Frankenstein: The Definitive, Annotated Edition of Mary Shelley's ClassicNovel (Essentials)	Books	4	3	28	N	N	The monster as the criminal type.	For a sociological interpretation, we can compare the monster with a perpetual criminal, especially a fugitive.  Frankenstein vows, &quot;I resolved that I would sell my life dearly, and not shrink from the conflict, until my own life, or that of my adversary, was extinquished.&quot;  Frankenstein will spend the rest of his life hunting down the criminal, in vain.  We see the fugitive post a landmark here and there and dare Frankenstein to catch him if he can, taunting him till his death.<br />Timothy McVeigh serves as a contemporary symbol of the monster.  Like the monster, McVeigh's mission in life became one of destruction, the Oklahoma City federal building bombing.  The blast killed 168 people, none of which McVeigh even personally knew.  Likewise, the monster slayed unknown innocents out of a learned hatred and resentment of society in general. The monster never made any direct attacks upon Victor, but rather destroyed all he loved and let him destroy himself in his pursuit of him.  Once Victor perished, the monster promptly announced his suicide, proudly removing HIMSELF from a cruel world.  With his upcoming execution, McVeigh was oddly relieved, &quot;I'll be glad to leave..this world just doesn't hold anything for me.&quot;  He has stated he was sorry that those people died but he felt they had to.  Like the monster, McVeigh shows some sorrow for what he did, but feels obligated and justified in what he did.  Victor's monster proved uncapturable and unpunishable, and although man has captured McVeigh, his single execution will not compensate for the 168 deaths he inflicted.  So in a sense man hasn't captured him.  One could compare this to the monster's reign of fulfilling his statement, &quot;You are my creator but I am your master.&quot;   His execution broadcasted on closed-circuit television as if the victims' families will find peace in witnessing his death.  This fits well with the observation of Frankenstein's fiance, Elizabeth, &quot;Men appear tome as monsters thirsting for each others blood.&quot;  She said this when Justine was being executed for the monster's crime.<BR>  <br />McVeigh has stated that he feels his bombing mission was noble.  Critics have called the monster a &quot;Noble Savage&quot; who feels compelled to do evil for an unobtainable good.  As he walked away from the bomb site, McVeigh wore a shirt with a quote on the front from John Wilkes Booth as he executed Lincoln, &quot;thus ever to tyrants&quot; on the back his shirt has a quote from Thomas Jefferson, &quot;The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants.&quot;  McVeigh has stated that he believes the U.S. Federal Government &quot;is the biggest bully in the world.&quot;  McVeigh has used his press attention to express his belief that he was a striving underdog in a world in which he cannot gain acceptance or be understood, which sounds so much like the monster's pleas.  We do have compassion for the monster despite his barbarous murders against the innocent, if we look back at his early history.  We understand the monster's innocent beginnings and that man turned him evil despite his struggle for goodness.  Society gives little compassion to criminals, in part because people don't understand the beginnings of these menaces.  Frankenstein, telling Sir Walton's crew about the monster, warned them not to listen to the monster's pleas; he is evil but his words are convincing, he says.  Likewise with criminals, society doesn't want to listen to them or consider that they have a case that deserves compassion.<br />Shelley presents the themes of oppression and rebellion in Frankenstein.  The novel shows that oppression leads to rebellion, as the monster suffers continual oppression until he violently rebels and destroys his oppressor.  The novel shows that like the Oklahoma City bombing, oppressor and rebel must meet sometime and they cannot do so as human beings.  To characters such as Justine and Elizabeth, the tragic events of this story seem random and without sense or purpose.  But as the reader you can listen to the viewpoints of the monster and Frankenstein and they will show you there are reasons behind all that happened.  They will, however, each give you two opposing viewpoints.  In this scenario, Justine and Elizabeth serve as symbols of innocent victims of crime, who often don't even know what hit them before they are dead.  The monster symbolizes the perpetrator and  Frankenstein could symbolize the authorities that try to apprehend the criminals.	2002-01-19
US	43387097	R25O391DU41WCX	0764587269	458343715	CliffsComplete Frankenstein (Cliffs Complete Study Editions)	Books	4	6	18	N	N	Friendship, ambition, and the conflict between the two.	The novel Frankenstein conveys the themes of friendship, ambition, and the conflict between the two.  The message is that the deeper need of the two is friendship, but that we are susceptible to the temptations of ambition, which can destroy friendship.  Ostensibly, Victor Frankenstein had an unselfish mission to &quot;benefit all mankind&quot; with his scientific project.  His &quot;selfless&quot; ambition failed him and proved to aim at self-glory because he wanted to create a race that would bless him as its father.  In Captain Walton's second letter to his sister, we learn that although he has a well-trained crew, he has no soul companion; this need he regards as a &quot;most severe evil.&quot;  Walton's exploration of the secluded and frozen Arctic serves as a metaphor for how his ambition has removed him from society.  His ambition even threatened his own and his crew members' lives when ice surrounded and trapped his boat.   The message is that if one sets out ambitiously to benefit mankind, once that person has acheived their goal, their prominence sets them apart from the same society they set out to benefit.  <br />Victor had a much more intense ambition than Walton, with corespondingly more disasterous results.  As Frankenstein prepared for his project, he isolated himself from his friends and family to laboriously study the sciences and he would later postpone his marriage for this project.  The embodiment of his ambition, the repulsive monster, would eventually slay several of Victor's loved family members, including his fiance on their wedding night.  Even the monster feels as his deepest need a human relationship, which he has none.  While observing an impoverished family, &quot;the bitter gall of envy&quot; arose in the monster.  He considers them rich because they have the companionship of each other even though they are in financial poverty.  When Frankenstein rejects the monster's pleas to create for him a mate of the same race,  the monster setsout on an unstoppable path to destruction and an ambitious one indeed.   The novel links ambition with destruction, particularly destruction of companionship and conveys friendship as a great need for mankind.<br /> I don't think the story conveys that all ambition is destructive.  At the end of the story, Victor has great regret for the results of his ambition, but he still has pride for his effort.  Although he cautions us that we would be better off to believe our &quot;native town to be the world,&quot; he adds, &quot;yet another may succeed.&quot;  You could interpret this as Victor not &quot;learning his lesson;&quot; that mankind will continue to give in to harmful passions.  Another, much different analysis could be that this story portrays that limited ambition, integrated with society and not aimed at self-glory, can be virtuous.  After all, for the teenage author of a classic, enduring novel to tell us that all ambition will destroy us would be a contradiction.	2002-01-19
US	43387097	R1SJE8IA1P4G2P	0944735398	884452775	Frankenstein	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Psychological theory in Frankenstein.	Humanistic psychological theory states that man has an innately healthy character from birth and that psychological problems only develop as a result of the blocking of achieving one's positive potential.  This idea is well-developed in Frankenstein.  Everyone is quick to point out that this is a horror story.  But it's also a very sad story if you consider the monster's innocent roots and what corrupted him.<br />The monster's own creator, Victor Frankenstein, rejected him immediately upon bringing him alive; the monster soon learned that he had to stay out of sight from everyone because all who saw him immediately rejected him, in terror. When the monster found a fire left by beggars, the warmth overcame him with delight and he thrust his hand into the fire &quot;and quickly drew it out again, with a cry of pain&quot; and once again something  for which he has affection rejects him, leaving him in pain. The monster sufficed his own needs of food by living off what he could gather from the woods and by night he cut the much-needed firewood for an impoverished family.  He did anonymous, benevolent deeds for them, planning to appear before them and plead for acceptance into the household. When he decided the time had come for his appearance, they too repulsed him, putting him on the run into forced seclusion once again.  He saved a young girl drowning in a river only to be shot in fear by her father.  <br />This characterization of the monster as a patiently caring being carries importance into later chapters when he sets out on his journey of heinous destruction.  For Shelley to characterize the monster as merely innately and totally evil would not have as complete of a meaning as an innately good being turned evil by a cruel society that misunderstands him. As the monster himself contended, &quot;My heart was susceptible of love and sympathy&quot; and, &quot;I was benevolent and good; misery made me a fiend.  Make me happy and I shall again be virtuous.&quot;   Themonster's pleas to Victor make clear the theme of Humanism.<br />The monster, and to a lesser degree Captain Walton, show the reader the great importance of friendship and social acceptance.  Lack of these is essentially the source of all the hardships of the novel.  This story illustrates that being understood is vital to relationships.  Because the monster is misunderstood, he is separated from society.  Society's impression of him eventually becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy.  This truly kind-hearted creature is gradually turned into a monster because of society's impression that he is a monster.  He goes through his whole life without a single friend.  That's what was so sad about this book.  All the monster wanted was one friend.  He tried so hard to find one, then he tried so hard to get Frankenstein to create one when that failed.  You would have to be a monster yourself to not feel compassion for him despite his later murders.	2002-01-19
US	43387097	R10U19O4XDBS7A	1892796007	213929315	My Awakening: A Path to Racial Understanding	Books	4	11	20	N	N	He gave me an awakening, but I haven't gotten out of bed.	I found this book to be very thought-provoking and in a practical way. I agree that this book will help to change the course of history once more and more people read it. While it is a thorough and complete book, I expect (and look forward to reading) more books by this author. <br /> <BR>In this book, Duke writes that he \\"idolized men like...Abraham Lincoln.\\" Yet earlier he said \\"I couldn't admit to having a family member, even a remote ancestor, who hailed from...Massachusetts. That was just too far North.\\" I find it hard to believe that any \\"Son of the South\\" idolizes president Lincoln. Could it be that he only idolized Lincoln for his racial views? <br />The main racial focus is between blacks and whites. What about hispanics and asians? On page 104 Duke nervously tries to explain away the question of whether or not Asians are \\"higher up on the evolutionary ladder\\" than whites. He does not go into detailed, convincing debate about this, leaving the issue open that maybe they are. <br />On p113 he writes about Issac Asimov's listing of 1500 greatest achievements, which he says includes no black achievements. He then says Asimov's listing supports his thesis even more strongly because Asimov believed in racial equality. But Duke doesn't explain the reason for this apparent contradiction. There must have been some reason why Asimov beleived this despite his listing. <br />This book may exaggerate the effects of race on the individual and society, like when he writes, \\"There Is Only One Issue: There is only one issue that is vital to every other one: race.\\" But nearly all other mainstream sources totally ignore and deny that race has an effect on anything or even exists. <br />While this book makes a compelling case for this cause, it does not make a convincing case that the cause will succeed. There's much more to be said, as to how and why this cause will succeed. <br />While Duke writes of his wife as \\"the person I cared most about in the world\\" and preaches about family values, he admits he is separated from her and makes almost no mention of his children. That doesn't sound like his \\"ideal Aryan\\" to me. <br />The book uncovers the many differences between the races, the sexes, and the Jews and Gentiles. But it doesn't prove that there aren't more similarities than differences. <BR>This is the most elaborate and credible \\"conspiracy theory\\" I have ever heard of. He managed to write it without sounding paranoid.<br />This book is very thought-provoking, making the attentive reader rethink his previously unquestioned beliefs of what America is and what it should be. Duke puts a 180 degree spin on what most people assume is true about many things: The racial views of several prominent presidents, who the \\"racists\\" and \\"haters\\" are, what morality is in regard to integration, how the \\"Holocaust\\" happened, and even what Christianity is. <br />Who controls the media controls the public's perception of reality. This book gives the reader the insight to approach the media with a critical eye rather than just unquestioningly assuming that the media represents the real world accurately and objectively. After reading this book, you can open up the newspaper every day and validate what this book shows about the media liberal bias. <br />For many topics, Duke first consults the dictionary and prints the definiton of a certain word. But for the word \\"Aryan\\" he makes up his own definition, \\"A racially aware white person dedicated to the survival and evolutionary advancement of his people.\\" <br />If the Jews are both a cultural group and Caucasians, then the two halves of this book contradict one another. In the first part, Duke says race greatly impacts culture and in the second part he explains how drastically different and opposing the Gentile and Jewish cultures are. His writing that the Jews are a race is more brief and shallow than most of his book. He doesn't go into scientific, intelligence, or statistical crime/ birth rate, etc differences like he did comparing blacks to whites.  I've seen statistics showing Jews have lower crime rates and higher intelligence and achievement levels than the rest of whites.  Decide for yourself whether he proves Jews are a different race than non-Jewish Caucasians, but in demonstrating the vast differences in culture between the two groups without proving they're different races, he is contradicting himself. What about the Amish people? People would agree their culture is drastically different and even far behind, that of mainstream white culture. But they are still \\"European-Americans\\", though not the kind David Duke talks about. What about Russians? They are white but not from Europe. Jews can be European-Americans, but again not David Duke's kind. Most people seem to confuse the concepts of \\"race\\" and \\"ethnicity\\". I guess they can be easy to confuse. <br />\\"My Awakening\\" is truly an amazing, rare, one-of-a-kind book, with information that you just don't encounter in mainstream sources like TV, newspapers, or even books. It's well- written, convincing, and intelligent but easy to read and understand.	2001-11-26
US	43387097	R37A1RMZ0V9F1L	0679409998	655343360	Frankenstein (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The theme of friendship versus ambition.	Among the many themes of Frankenstein, one of them is that of friendship, ambition, and the conflict between the two.  The message is that the deeper need of the two is friendship, but that we are susceptible to the temptations of ambition, which can destroy friendship.<br />Ostensibly, Victor Frankenstein had an unselfish mission to \\"benefit all mankind\\" with his scientific project.  His \\"selfless\\" ambition failed him and proved to aim at self-glory because he wanted to create a race that would bless him as its father.  In Captain Walton's second letter to his sister, we learn that although he has a well-trained crew, he has no soul companion; this need he regards as a \\"most severe evil.\\"  Walton's exploration of the secluded and frozen Arctic serves as a metaphor for how his ambition has removed him from society.  His ambition even threatened his own and his crew members' lives when ice surrounded and trapped his boat.  Likewise, this is where Victor's ambition leads him when he's hunting down the monster in futility.  The message is that if one sets out ambitiously to benefit mankind, once that person has acheived their goal, their prominence sets them apart from the same society they set out to benefit.<br />Victor had a much more intense ambition than Walton, with corespondingly more disasterous results.  As Frankenstein prepared for his project, he isolated himself from his friends and family to laboriously study the sciences and he would later postpone his marriage for this project.  The embodiment of his ambition, the repulsive monster, would eventually slay several of Victor's loved family members, including his fiance on their wedding night.  Even the monster feels as his deepest need a human relationship, which he has none and which is the very thing that turned him from good to evil.  While observing an impoverished family, \\"the bitter gall of envy\\" arose in the monster.  He considers them rich because they have the companionship of each other even though they are in financial poverty.  When Frankenstein rejects the monster's pleas to create for him a mate of the same race,  the monster sets out on an unstoppable path to destruction and an ambitious one indeed.  The novel links ambition with destruction, particularly destruction of companionship and conveys friendship as a great , if not greatest, need for man.<br /> I don't think the story conveys that all ambition is destructive.  At the end of the story, Victor has great regret for the results of his ambition, but he still has pride for his effort.  Although he cautions us that we would be better off to believe our \\"native town to be the world,\\" he adds, \\"yet another may succeed.\\"  You could interpret this as Victor not \\"learning his lesson;\\" that mankind will continue to give in to harmful passions.  Another, much different analysis could be that this story portrays that limited ambition, integrated with society and not aimed at self-glory, can be virtuous.  After all, for the teenage author of a classic, enduring novel to tell us that all ambition will destroy us would be a contradiction.though they are in financial poverty.  When Frankenstein rejects the monster's pleas to create for him a mate of the same race,  the monster sets out on an unstoppable path to destruction and an ambitious one indeed.   The novel links ambition with destruction, particularly destruction of companionship and conveys friendship as a great , if not greatest, need for man.<br /> I don't think the story conveys that all ambition is destructive.  At the end of the story, Victor has great regret for the results of his ambition, but he still has pride for his effort.  Although he cautions us that we would be better off to believe our \\"native town to be the world,\\" he adds, \\"yet another may succeed.\\"  You could interpret this as Victor not \\"learning his lesson;\\" that mankind will continue to give in to harmful passions.  Another, much different analysis could be that this story portrays that limited ambition, integrated with society and not aimed at self-glory, can be virtuous.  After all, for the teenage author of a classic, enduring novel to tell us that all ambition will destroy us would be a contradiction.	2001-11-26
US	43387097	R3JTL19NX7AECK	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not a Great Classic, but  has thematic material.	I found the slang speech of the characters to get annoying after a while and I found the author's narration to be dull, dry, and passive.  The writing wasn't particularly good and neither was the plot.  At first I thought the whole plot was pretty pointless, but that is partly the point of this book: to show the meaningless, as well as cruel nature of war.<br />Henry initially enlists with the Union Army in the War Between the States with high hopes of glory only to find the life of a soldier boring and unrewarding.  Neither Henry nor the other soldiers talk about why they want their side to win the war.    Many of the soldiers in the War Between the States were comparatively ignorant of the politics and issues behind the war.  When the Union soldiers encounter the Confederate soldiers, they find that the enemy has a lot in common with them- they are just ordinary men with a job to do.  The soldiers in this book have a very limited scope of the battle as it is happening; they can only see how their own regiment is doing.  Soldiers are given and follow orders, the reasons for which they don't understand.  This book accurately and realistically portrays war.  Henry realizes that &quot;Nobody seems to know where we go or why we go.&quot;  Another soldier stated, &quot;There was shootin' here an' shootin' there an' hollerin' here an' hollerin' there in the damn darkness, until I couldn't tell t' save m' soul which side I was on.&quot;  At the end of the novel, after two days of marching and bloodshed, Henry's regiment is ordered back to where it started, which conveys that all the previous struggles and deaths were for nothing.    Specifically, this book makes a definite statement that war is pointless and chaotic.  <br />More generally, you could put an existential interpretation on it, extending the story to life, not just war.  While part of a meaningless and cruel war that he doesn't understand, Henry manages to find his own meaning in it, from within himself.  At the closing of the novel, Henry doesn't know whether the army has won the battle or if the battle is even over but he has been courageous and that's the best he can do.  During grim battle, Henry is amazed to see a &quot;blue pure sky and the sun gleaming on the trees and fields.&quot;  This shows that the universe does not care about the desperation of the world.  Henry is a small man trapped in a large army, which is in a even larger world.  There's not much Henry can do, but he does what he can.  That's his personal victory in the end- he copes as good as he can in a big, inhospitable world.  <br />Another theme is individualism -vs- conformity to the group.  Crane has depersonalized the army and stressed that it is one coherent group, not a bunch of individuals.  In the army, Henry and the other soldiers have been &quot;welded into a common personality...dominated by a single desire.&quot;  One effect of focus on the group is that the individual shrinks in importance.  In joining the army, Henry became a small &quot;part of a vast blue demonstration.&quot;  Some critics have said the book promotes conformity to the group because Henry matures only when he does not run from battle and stays to fight with and for the army.  But in being loyal  to the group, Henry envies Jim, who because of his courage and loyalty dies in agony.  In wanting to be in good standing in the army, Henry actually wants a wound, which he equates with courage.  Being loyal to the army could get Henry killed at any time.  The irony is that while Henry emerges from the story a victor, that battle (Chancellorsville) historically ended in a major defeat for the Union.  There's definitely the issue of individualism versus conformity in this book, but I think it conveys the message that a certain degree of conformity is necessary in our society, but that it is detrimental to the individual.	2001-10-10
US	43387097	R2FKD5NEM1R1MK	0451160444	467915322	Christine (Signet)	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Many boring parts	Fearing he would fail the eye exam in old age, George LeBay stops driving Christine, his old Plymouth Fury, and lets it deterioriate over the years.  Driving by, Arnie immediately attaches to it (turns out the car attached to him), like love at first sight and buys it, planning to put his know-how to work and restore it.  LeBay dies shortly after the sale.  This car transforms Arnie.  His rampant acne disappears and he manages to get a hot girlfriend, who is new to the school and didn't know about how dorky Arnie used to be.  <br />Before he restores the car, Arnie gets a lot of trouble about it.  On the way home, the Fury breaks down and a resident gives him a really hard time about leaving it there until he can move it.  His parents will not allow him to keep it at the house.  Arnie has to pay to keep it in a garage where he will spend a lot of time.  <br />I really liked the vivid and thorough description of the Plymouth, prior to its restoration.  It was so beat up it would hardly drive, let alone pass inspection.  Then, in a fairly short time, it has inspection stickers and a little later it looks like new.  Based on how Arnie spent so much time at the garage to fix his car and because he was supposed to know a lot about cars, I assumed like the characters in the story that he was actually fixing Christine.   But it turns out she's fixing herself- the spiderweb crack in the windshield shrinks until its gone, the rusted out grill is replaced half at a time, and the odometer runs backward.  What, then, exactly was Arnie doing all those hours he spent at the garage? <br />I would have liked to see Arnie put the same amount of labor into it as he put devotion, so that when Christine kills Arnie's enemies, at least there's some degree of sense for it- Arnie and Christine take care of each other.  The contradiction is that George LeBay, former owner of the car, comes back from the dead and inhabits and controls both Arnie and the car.  In doing so, he restores Christine to mint condition, but brings destruction in every other way, including to Arnie.  Yet in some ways the car is good for Arnie- at first anyway, and it destroys his enemies.  The book leaves a lot of unanswered questions, which I didn't like.  LeBay had an &quot;unending fury and single-minded purpose&quot;.  After reading the book I haven't the slightest clue why he was so mad or what that purpose was.  Who is he and what does he want?  Is LeBay the only one who supernaturally controls Christine or does she have a mind of her own, or do the desires of Arnie also affect it?  Why was LeBay so obsessed about the car?  All the unanswered questions are like holes in the story.<br />I thought the ending was weak, because its obvious that Christine will recover like new from being compacted into a cube at the junk yard- she recovered easily from all the other incidents.  The closing narration of Dennis makes this clear also.  But Christine's survival and revival are stated vaguely.  It could have been expressed emphatically with Christine repairing herself piece by piece in junkyard, or by Christine making an unexpected appearance somewhere in mint condition, her engine reving then falling off, highbeams glaring, radio playing oldies.  <br />This long story really dragged slowly after a while.  I think King possibly could have done without LeBay and just given the car a mind of its own.	2001-10-09
US	43387097	R3KK1G1NTAU2II	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	1	242	361	N	N	This book is now obsolete.	&quot;Today we come across an individual who behaves like an automation, who does not know or understand himself, and the only person that he knows is the person that he is supposed to be, whose meaningless chatter has replaced communicative speech, whose synthetic smile has replaced genuine laughter, and whose sense of dull despair has taken the place of genuine pain...he suffers from defects of spontaneity and individuality...&quot; As I can validate with the man who recommended this book to me, this observation by Erich Fromm is 100% on target with &quot;Win Friends and Influence People&quot;.<br /><br />This man, who practiced this book, presented himself as superficial, artificial, irregular, and consequently very annoying.  He proved to me that these techniques do not facilitate communication- they stifle it.  Instead of being direct, this man would only have the courage to give hints or make indirect statements in the form of questions.  If I would attempt to explain something to him he didn't understand, he would immediately light up and go, &quot;Oh! I see what you mean buddy.&quot;  In my head I would think 'You couldn't possibly understand- I didn't even start explaining!'  But that's how this &quot;Win Friends&quot; philosphy made him- he's not willing to go through any difficulty at all to understand and communicate with others.<br /><br />The techniques in this book basically converted this man into a robot.  Nobody really knows what kinds of things he's interested in - although at first you think his interests have a lot in common with yours.  The man has no sincerity or credibility.  When I see him smiling I don't know if he is genuinly happy or just trying to appear pleasant.  When he says he agrees with me, it means nothing because he always seems to agree with everyone. I've come to take his liberal and exaggerated complements of me as insults because in doing this, he ignores what is truly worth praise and I know that anything he does for me is really only for his image.<br /> I'll sum up this book for you:<br />1.  Fake interest in other people's hobbies to get what you want out of them.<br />2.  Pretend to agree with whatever people tell you so you'll be more popular.<br />3.  Only express positive feelings ; do away with sincerity.<br />4.  Make false excuses for your actions that people would be embarrased to turn down, called &quot;Appealing to the Nobler Motives.&quot;<br />5.  Talk your way out of what you behave yourself into (as if this was possible).<br /><br />I witnessed the ineffectiveness of a man who devoted himself to this book; I tried this book myself for a while.  My conclusions: It contains nothing more than deceptive, manipulative, superficial techniques that have no use and will lead to the detriment of yourself and your relationships.  Instead, I recommend reading the book that made this one obsolete: &quot;The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People&quot; by Dr. Stephen R. Covey.s really only for his image.<br /> I'll sum up this book for you:<BR>1.  Fake interest in other people's hobbies to get what you want out of them.<BR>2.  Pretend to agree with whatever people tell you so you'll be more popular.  <BR>3.  Only express positive feelings ; do away with sincerity.  <BR>4.  Make false excuses for your actions that people would be embarrased to turn down, called &quot;Appealing to the Nobler Motives.&quot;<BR>5.  Talk your way out of what you behave yourself into (as if this was possible).<BR> <br />I witnessed the ineffectiveness of a man who devoted himself to this book; I tried this book myself for a while.  My conclusions: It contains nothing more than deceptive, manipulative, superficial techniques that have no use and will lead to the detriment of yourself and your relationships.  Instead, I recommend reading the book that made this one obsolete: &quot;The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People&quot; by Dr. Stephen R. Covey.	2001-09-19
US	43387097	R28IRL507279O2	0671791540	850378543	Awaken the Giant Within : How to Take Immediate Control of Your Mental, Emotional, Physical and Financial Destiny!	Books	2	66	93	N	N	This book is B.S.	No, I'm not talking about &quot;Belief Systems.&quot;  Of course I could use &quot;Transformational Vocabulary&quot; and call this book &quot;a little aromatic.&quot;<BR> <br />The tone of this book contains a lot of energy and inspiration but the content is another story.   It sensationalizes and dramatizes many issues (just count how many exclamation points appear and how many times the word &quot;power&quot; comes up).  Do we really have to become &quot;Giants&quot; to be happy?<BR> <br />This book alleges to teach you &quot;How to take immediate control of your mental, emotional, physical, and financial destiny!&quot;  I found it disturbing that he includes &quot;fianancial&quot; as a fifth dimension of man.  Dr. Stephen Covey, in &quot;The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People&quot;, more expertly describes man's quality of life depending upon the first four.  He instructs us that each dimension &quot;interdependently&quot; affects the other and the key to improving one is to improve the others.  For example, exercising (physical) can give us more energy to read(mental).  This book explains neither connection nor natural sequence between each of the human dimensions.  The 7 Habits depicts them in order: physical, mental, social (or emotional), and spiritual, telling us that each one contains and depends upon the others before it.  This book totally neglects the spiritual dimension and seems to have replaced it with this &quot;financial&quot; dimension.  While Covey includes &quot;financial&quot; into the &quot;physical&quot; section, Robbins makes it into a fifth dimension, over-emphasizing the importance of money.<BR> <br />While Robbins includes a brief section on analyzing our time spent into &quot;important&quot; and &quot;urgent&quot; categories telling us to spend time on the important, Covey again is more intricate and accurate.  He uses a time quadrant, including urgent but not important , urgent and important , neither important nor urgent, and important but not urgent (the most desirable quad to spend time in.)<BR> <br />A section of Robbins' book carries the title,  &quot;The Ultimate Challenge: What One Person Can Do.&quot;  But Covey teaches us that we can achieve far more together than each of us could independently.  This he calls &quot;interdependence,&quot; something Robbins neglects in this book.<br />While Robbins' based his book upon techniques that may or may not work depending upon the situation, Covey based his book on principles that never change.  Awaken the Giant teaches us outside-in strategies like &quot;Transformational Vocabulary&quot; to change our attitude or behavior. The 7 Habits teaches us inside-out strategies like changing our marriage by first changing ourselves or changing our behaviors by first changing what our behaviors flow from- our perceptions.  Robbins based his book on the assumption that you already know what you want (money, sex, power, more money, good looks) Covey bases his book on the idea that we can only be effective climbing the ladder of success if it is leaned against the right wall.  While Robbins' book shows us how to use our moods to achieve, Covey's teaches us Proactivity: using the space between stimulus and response to act based upon values, not moods.  <BR> <br />Covey wrote another book just on the success stories of the 7 Habits along with further instruction:  &quot;Living the Seven Habits&quot;.   To date, Robbins has published no &quot;Living Awaken the Giant Within&quot; and no wonder.   <BR> <br />You may even want to bypass the self-help books altogether and take another route: If you want to make more money, read a Financial Strategy book.  If you want to get into better shape, read a Fitness book.  If you want to pursue the &quot;Ultimate Solution&quot; to homelessness, the prison system, or gang violence, read a Sociology book.  This book displays no expertise on any of these subjects, although it professes to.	2001-09-19
US	43387097	R6IDSD1I11A6O	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Watch the movie, too.	The compelling question throughout this book is, \\"Will the President get away with it?\\" Alan Richmond is up for reelection and winning in the polls by a landslide. Publicly, he is charming and compassionate. Privately, he is a philanderer and has had his billionaire friend Walter Sullivan's wife killed when the sex got too rough. He goes on TV and makes a compassionate speech of the tragedy, using the opportunity to boost his lead in the polls. The character of Alan Richmond reminds me of the mastermind of the kidnapping in the movie \\"Ransom\\". The guy's plan seems about to collapse, as his accomplices bail out on him. So he shoots them all, and being a policeman, calls in for backups. Surviving a bullet wound, he is a hero in the eyes of the rich parents of the son he kidnapped and in the eyes of the country. He almost collects his own ransom! At the last moment, the kid's father puts two and two together and discovers the culprit. In Absolute Power, the reader is kept wondering whether the president will get away with it like the guy in Ransom almost did. In some ways, this book isn't so fictional. Just as President Richmond admits, his \\"extracurricular activities\\" aren't much different from those of previous presidents, which is true. I also recommend the book, \\"Inside the White House\\" which contains facts about former presidents that much of the public is still unaware of. For example, Kennedy and Johnson were much like Clinton in their sexual lives. When Chief of Staff Russel gathered two million dollars to pay Witney's blackmail, Baldacci noted that nobody really knows how much money the White House uses because the money comes in from so many different government agencies (which is true). After reading \\"Inside the White House\\" you will see realistic ties between Absolute Power politics. The critical point of difference between the book and movie is at the meeting of Luther and his daughter. In the book, he is shot and I find it hard to believe that a man thatstealthy and meticulous would be killed that easily. In the movie, he was prepared, as we would expect him to be. After the bullet missed him, amid all the chaos of people and police scrambling everywhere, all they find of him is his trenchcoat under the table. He was wearing a police uniform underneath it! He makes a later appearance as the chauffer of Walter Sullivan, which Sullivan hasn't even realized until Witney makes a wrong turn. Witney then informs him who the guilty party is and how he knows, as the White House appears up ahead. Sullivan is shocked and increduluos, but the pieces fit together and Witney has handed him the proof- the letter opener with DNA and prints on it. Emphasized in the book and movie is that Sullivan knows he MUST see to the death of whomever killed his wife. He's able to get through the beeping metal detector because one, he's Walter Sullivan and two, he has a metal cane. On the news, the nation learns about the shocking suicide of the president. What an ending! But in the book, the two best, most extensively characterized people are murdered and their efforts to do justice to Alan Richmond stomped. The book puts more emphasis on the police and the lawyers, with whom we are more apathetic, to solve the crime, wheras the \\"absolute power\\" is concentrated into the hands of two key people in the movie. The movie has a happier ending, with more justice because less innocents are killed and also because Luther finally establishes a healthy relationship with his long-estranged daughter.<BR>The killing of Luther Witney complicates the plot because now, it seems, the president will get away with the murder, only now he's even guiltier than before. Though a crook, Witney never killed anyone and only robbed from those who could afford it and he is shown to be very loving and protective of his daughter. All these details help develop Alan Richmond as a \\"[explative]bastard\\", as Witney called him. I think the best part of the book's plot, also themost unexpected and depressing, is when Walter Sullivan is shot. Earlier in the book, the reader is bound to have developed a respect for his immense wealth and power. Now, we learn more of his backround- he was a self-made billionaire from a poor family. He bought out the mine where his father worked and paid for each worker's retirement, and he has maintained his vitality well into his 80's. He calls the president from his birth home on an expensive anti-tracking device to let his him know that his presidency and career have only hours left. \\"Great!\\" the reader thinks. Sullivan himself has discovered the culprit and will execute the punishment himself tomorrow morning. In the meantime, Sullivan sleeps comfortably on the very bed his father died on, knowing that his whereabouts are known to no one. Just as we think the plot has been resolved and the book is winding down, a gun is put into Sullivan's hand aiming at his head and the trigger is pulled before he knows what happened. Once again, the president has escaped destruction, while his guilt increases and he becomes ever more detestable in the eyes of the reader, just like the \\"Ransom\\" mastermind.<BR>After watching the movie, I liked how Luther put himself at risk for the love of his daughter and he still survived and dethroned the president. But in the book, this love and trust of his daughter prevents him from dethroning the Richmond administration and gets him killed. I think the movie ending was better. Much of the book's added details enrich the story but some of them make it boring and drawn-out, like the details about the police and lawyers and the minor characters. I recommend the book and movie.	2001-08-31
US	43387097	R2GWP9FYKWLOLO	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A unique, but somewhat shallow book.	Larry Elder makes a convincing case for societal change in this book. If you are not affiliated with a political party or are disgruntled with both Democrats and Republicans, this book may open your mind to Libertarianism. The main point of this book is that we need a smaller, less powerful, less intrusive government to have more freedom.  <br />I think the title attracts readers but does not live up to its promise. At first I thought he meant that you can't say these ten things because they are not true. Apparently, he means you can't say them because they are politically incorrect. He doesn't adequately prove that \\"you can't say\\" these things in America. In fact, of course you can! He published a book about them, didn't he? The title is just an eye-catcher.<br />Because the book is filled with specific, current-event examples not really founded upon basic principles, parts of this book will gradually become outdated and what isn't outdated isn't based on a strong foundation. He should have stated a basic concept, then backed it up and explained it will specific examples. Also, he should stop restating quotations in question form. \\"I should stop restating quotations in question form? Give me a break!\\" Instead of expressing his incredulity by repeating the same thing that was just written or saying something to the effect of \\"that's ridiculous\\" he should get right into his counter argument. <br />For a book that is much better written and about similar issues, I recommend \\"My Awakening\\" by David Duke. While Elder compartmentalizes the media's liberal bias into its own chapter, Duke integrates it into his whole book. Elder writes from the perspective that \\"Blacks are more racist than Whites\\" and \\"White condension is as bad as Black racism.\\" Duke goes far deeper by debating the forbidden topic of racial equality itself, which lies at the heart of all racial debates. This is something Elder does not even scratch the surface of. Elder mentions Duke several times in hisbook, so why not allow the man to speak for himself? If you really want to read a book about Things You Can't Say in America (without being severely persecuted), then read \\"My Awakening\\" by David Duke.  I suspect that the negative voting response on this review will prove my point to others who read this.	2001-08-10
US	43387097	RMUQ22P2317YS	0713484640	904087988	Logical Chess: Move By Move: Every Move Explained New Algebraic Edition	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Beginners- it will help your game if you practice it.	Personally, I can say the study and implementation of this book improved my rating from 1200 to 1300.  I went through each game on my own chess board and took notes on the main ideas, which I studied and gradually implemented in my own games.  It took a while for it to kick in, but my rating did eventually rise about 100 points.  For a long time, I had been playing chess waiting for the &quot;practice makes perfect&quot; thing to take effect, but it didn't.  I found you need something to practice, or else you'll just be reinforcing your old habits.<br />This book explains General Principles, which are basic guidelines for play.  This book doesn't stress enough that all rules in chess are made to be broken and that these are generally, not always, the keys to making the right moves.  But you'll learn that later.  <br />One interesting thing I noticed in the book is that some 95% of the games end in a White win. Is this a coincidence, or what?	2001-07-31
US	43387097	R2ZU54WTRKZBMQ	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Great survival story, but many stories like it.	This is a gripping, chilling, interesting, true story of the sinking of the Essex whaleship. I think you can spot some thematic material and symbols waiting to be created from this story in a work of fiction. Herman Meliville did and Philbrick's book makes a good pre-reading to &quot;Moby Dick&quot;.  <br />The beginning and the ending I found to be boring and dry. Those sections contain more of the historical backround and afterword. <br />It is a great story of survival and endurance- testing the limits of the human body and psyche. If you liked this book, I recommend the book &quot;Hatchet&quot; which is also a survival story, altough a fictional one.  In the Heart of the Sea is much like the sea survival stories of &quot;Jaws&quot; and the &quot;Perfect Storm&quot; so I don't think there is anything special about this book.	2001-07-17
US	43387097	R1O2IKKCCNXB95	0465041434	649376624	Living To 100: Lessons In Living To Your Maximum Potential At Any Age	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Inspiring, educational, instructional.	This book taught me that living long is a function of many factors, namely one's physical, social, mental, and spiritual health.  Some of the factors are totally out of our control such as the genes we are born with and the time period and location we are born into.  Also, I learned that longevity and quality of life go hand in hand.  For example, a person who smokes heavily all their life not only will die sooner but suffer less enjoyable health in the mean time.  This book provides a profound understanding of the factors that determine our well-being and makes a great guide to improving our well-being.  I also found it engaging to read.  Few of us can make it to 100 or beyond, but by emulating those who have, we can live longer, better lives.  It must be nice to live to see your great-grandchildren graduate college and get married and everything.<br />Also recommended: &quot;The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People&quot; by Dr. Stephen Covey, also a great guidebook for improvement.	2001-07-12
US	43387097	RB9SIDM3S8MN	0525666877	914373799	Handwriting Analysis: 2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Recommended for people interested in Psychology.	Psychology says that everything we do is a function of our personalities, from what foods we like, to where we sit in the movie theater, to what cars we buy.  How we write is no exception.  By studying this book thoroughly, you can gain deeper understanding of yourself and insight into others whenever you see their handwriting or even just their signature.  I now become more aware of what state I am in by temporary changes in my writing.  For example, I notice that I use lighter pressure when tired, etc although I wonder how useful this really is to know.  It can be hard to interpret some writing samples that are plain and lack unique traits.  But this book, more than others, provides a complete and well- rounded approach to interpreting writing, and shows you that putting graphology to work isn't that hard to do once you understand the basic principles behind it.  <br />However, I disagree with &quot;Chapter 18 Therapy&quot;.  The author alleges that because our writing reflects our personality that by consciously changing our writing our personalities will conform to our new hand.  I tried this and found that with much effort and practice I could change my writing style.  However, it didn't change my personality and from time to time I found my writing reverting back to my natural style.	2001-07-11
US	43387097	R156M5CZW1FKWX	0684846640	396925349	Living the 7 Habits Stories of Courage and Inspiration	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The proof and example of the 7 Habits	This book not only proves that the 7 Habits work, but gives the reader greater insight by example as to how they may apply the 7 Habits themselves.  Covey gives some insight before and after each story for additional instruction.  This book is comparable to the Chicken Soup Series, except this book contains expert instruction and explanation.  A great follow up to the 7 Habits.	2001-06-30
US	43387097	R23FEKXQC09UY0	0671874322	857224773	Bobby Fischer's Outrageous Chess Moves: A Study of 101 Outrageous Moves by the Greatest Chess Champion of All Time	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Not an instructional chess book, but ok	This book is more like a novel rather than an instructional chess book.  The book presents no strategies or tips to learn, just Fischer's remarkable one-move responses to difficult chess problems.  As with any chess book that analyses a game between two grandmasters, this book will be over the heads of beginners and even intermediate players.   Pandolfini provides some details of a game that Bobby Fischer won, shows the arrangement of the pieces, offers a clue, and you have to guess what Fischer's winning move was, the answer of which is at the bottom of the page.  He puts a number (1-5) at the top to indicate the difficulty level of finding the solution to the chess problem.  The games don't seem to be in any particular order; I think he should have arranged them into five chapters, one for each level of difficulty.  It's not the type of book I would recommend for improvement in chess, but it can help the reader to appreciate the beauty of chess and the consumate skill of Bobby Fischer.  It shows you that with even the most complex chess situation, there is a simple move waiting to be discovered.	2001-06-28
US	43387097	RD64QJBEF4FCV	0671792806	649821276	Principle-Centered Leadership	Books	2	16	19	N	N	A dud compared w/ the 7 Habits	If you are proficient in The Seven Habits and you have a management or leadership career, this book could be a valuable tool.  I would recommend reading The 7 Habits first, as a sound foundation to help you understand this book.     Families and especially individuals will find little to gain from this career-oriented book.  It isn't as easy to apply, confirm, or understand as the 7 habits.  It contains some fresh material but much of it is a repeat from the 7 Habits. Much of Principle-Centered is repetitive within itself.  This book is very pale and disappointing in comparison with The Seven Habits.  In it, Covey attempts to negate Freud's theories by saying they were developed his theories from the study of neurotic and psychotic people.  I wonder if it would follow then that Covey's books would not help such people.  This book is more sermon-like and preachy than his other books.	2001-06-26
US	43387097	R2JGZP9QG556TW	0684856093	927677900	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens: The Ultimate Teenage Success Guide	Books	3	2	5	N	N	His Dad said it better.	I think the original Seven Habits is not only more complete, profound, and instructional, but the reading level or style of it shouldn't really deter teenagers of average intelligence.  The original Seven Habits is simple without being simplistic.  Younger teenagers probably don't need to be reading books like these yet.  Once they are grown up and have some sense of themselves and what their weaknesses and strengths are then they might have use for a book like this.	2001-06-26
US	43387097	R7W837TISD3YU	0684802031	140093647	First Things First	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Great Follow-up to the 7 Habits!	This book provides useful, profound, and much-needed advice to people who are over-worked, stressed, fatigued, have poor relationships, and feel helpless and hopeless in general.  Most people think that to be more effective they have to give up sleep, exercise, friends, and work more and faster.  This book provides a revolutionary solution to problems that so many people suffer from.  By putting First Things First, you can be more effective while working less and feeling better.   First Things First has its roots from The Seven Habits, which I would recommend reading first.  The 7 Habits is more general and fundamental, while First Things is more dynamic, practical, detailed, and specific.  Read them both!	2001-06-26
US	43387097	R19SIC4P6MPJVX	0671708635	783953685	The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An unchallenged classic	I believe this book is the most profound of all self-improvement books ever written.  However, it isn't the only book you should read if you seek to improve.  It isn't without its weaknesses.  This book, as with all of of Covey's books, is of the Humanistic branch of psychology.  Humanists believe that people are basically good and that with a little bit of help, we can all turn out all right.  Humanism came about in response to Freud's creation of the psychoanalytic branch.  While Freud's theories are too negative by themselves, Covey's can seem too optimistic.  He doesn't account well for the darker realities of life.  In &quot;Principle-Centered Leadership&quot; he refuted Freud's theories on the grounds that they were developed based upon psycotic and neurotic people.  I wonder if it follows that the Seven Habits will not help such people.   Sometimes Covey can be downright preachy and his books can be sermon-like.  He tries to sell us virtues such as humility and service to others without first convincing us that these virtues are really desirable.    Nevertheless, the 7 Habits are worth a try to anyone seeking improvement in their personal lives, relationships, or businesses.  Far more than just an improvement guide, Covey's thesis also provides a strong foundation for a life philosophy.  His thesis is that God governs the world through unchanging, unchangable, unerring, timeless, universal principles that are just as inarguably present as gravity and govern us regardless of our knowledge or obedience of them.  As this book becomes more widely read, more and more people will throw away their Dale Carnegie and Anthony Robbins books.  This book is well worth the price to read, re-read, continually refer to, and share with others.  Before you read any other books by Covey you should read this one first as it is his most profound and fundamental.	2001-06-26
