US	43396715	R2Q5EBXH8N3VYY	0060542128	78002290	When the Storm Breaks	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Awesome debut suspense novel....	Claire Lambert decides to give her friend Afton's dating service Camelot a try.  On her way to the bus stop late at night after providing Camelot with her bio, she cuts through a schoolyard and witnesses a brutal murder.  She flees the scene, only to be chased by the killer.  She manages to escape his evil clutches, but slips and falls, banging her head on the way down, only to wake up in the hospital with very few memories of what happened the night before - and Washington, D.C. detective Sean Richter, along with partner/cousin Aidan Burke waiting for answers regarding the murder.<br /><br />The two detectives work the Cold Case Unit, and fear this is the work of a serial killer from the past that has struck again.  With Claire's memory in shreds, they focus their attentions on the dating service, believing this is the link to the killer.  When Claire fled the murder scene, she dropped her purse, along with her ID, which the killer has.  Sean and Aidan walk a fine line, trying to protect Claire from the killer, while using her as bait to reel him in.  And, in the process, Sean and Claire develop more than a working relationship, which could put the entire case in jeopardy.<br />This is an awesome debut novel from Heather Lowell.  The amnesia angle has been used over and over again in suspense stories, but this author gives it a whole new believable spin.  The characters are well developed and likeable, with a heroine to be admired.  The hunky detectives speak for themselves, with a story line that is loaded with suspense and passion.  Kudos, Ms. Lowell, for a presenting a captivating and sexy debut novel.  I certainly hope the saga continues, with Aidan's story.	2003-08-17
US	43396715	R376M1U8SGN6IM	0380821044	781630272	Talk of the Town	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This book is &quot;Paradise&quot;!	Kelly Atwood's new husband Raymond is out cold.  Good thing she can deliver a left hook, after being slapped by Raymond when she questioned him about the cocaine she found in her honeymoon luggage while looking for space for more shoes.  After ensuring Raymond is still breathing, she flees in his BMW, later boarding a bus headed north.  Here she meets up with the incredulous Myrtle Crabtree, hometown Paradise, Washington.  Myrtle persuades Kelly to hide out with her in Paradise, which at the time sounds like a great idea.  Little does Kelly know that Paradise is just that - the town she has been dreaming about her entire life.  Also, hometown to Sam Grayson, too good to be true local hunk, recently returned to the family law practice after life had dealt him some low blows.<br />The eccentric townsfolk of Paradise have made it their job to get Sam and Kelly together.  Not a difficult task, considering Sam and Kelly ignite whenever they meet.  However, there are a few issues that need to be looked into.  Namely, Kelly's three hour marriage, a briefcase full of money found in the trunk of Raymond's car, and Raymond being found dead.  Suddenly, Kelly's main concern is keeping her newfound friends and lover safe from the thugs chasing the briefcase full of money.<br />This is a delightful story of life in a small town, and how everyone knows everyone else's business.  You will laugh out loud many times while reading this book, get lost in the budding romance between Sam and Kelly, and wish for your own personal \\"Paradise\\"!	2003-08-11
US	43396715	R1C93UQWK7UCDO	0425191265	749093846	A Bridge To Love (Berkley Sensation)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Contemporary winner!!	Kate Chilton is trying to put her life back together after being suddenly widowed a year ago.  She meets sexy CEO millionaire Randall Johnson at a class reunion with a friend, and although Kate is attracted to Randall, she quickly realizes he's not her type.  After all, she is a single mom of two adolescent boys, and a soccer coach with many fond memories of her happy marriage to her beloved David.<br />While going through business documents of David's, she learns a devastating secret about her late husband - and his mistress.  Kate feels the need to get even with David, and accepts Randall's dinner invitation, viewing it as the perfect excuse to put the past behind her.  Neither Randall nor Kate are willing to accept their strong feelings for one another, but fate continues to throw them together - along with Randall's ability to control anyone and everything around him.  Of course, the fact that Kate's boys, Clay and Patrick think Mr. Johnson is the greatest thing on earth doesn't hurt Randall's position in Kate's life one bit.<br />This enjoyable romance stars an incredible lead in Kate, who has a plethora of emotions from the past and present to deal with.  Randall means well, and in his love for Kate wants to give her everything  - when all she wants is his heart.  Will the engineer soccer mom and millionaire playboy be able to build a bridge to love?  This debut novel from Nancy Herkness is a very entertaining book!	2003-08-11
US	43396715	R2DR6ITDHWCYN4	1551666944	973660228	Into The Fire (MIRA)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Dark, compelling story	Jamie Kincaid, in a state of grief over the murder of her cousin Nate, sets out for Wisconsin, in search of Nate's old friend Dillon Gaynor, hoping he can provide answers regarding Nate's death, which coincidently, happened at Dillon's home.  Prodded along by adoptive mother Isobel, and instructed not to return home until she obtains information Isobel so badly wants, Jamie seemingly has no choice other than to remain at Dillon's, and the game begins.<br />Dillon's hostility is apparent from the get go. This leaves the reader wondering if all the strange occurrences taking place are Dillon playing predatory games to scare Jamie off, and if not, what else could possible be going on here?  As the plot thickens, Dillon, Nate and Jamie's past is revealed through flashbacks, and we begin to understand why Jamie is unable to walk away from the sensual sparks flying between her and perpetual bad boy Dillon.  Bits and pieces of Dillon's dark side are revealed, leaving you to further wonder if the bad boy has reformed or been lead further down the road to vengeance.<br />Anne Stuart provides another dark, erotic, and compelling suspense story.  Dillon Gaynor is truly one of her darkest bad boys, and we are left wondering who - or what - he really has become until the end of the book.  This is not a pretty story, the characters are flawed, the plot twisted, but this author delivers again what she does so well.  Not a story for the faint of heart!	2003-08-11
US	43396715	R1TTB9TF6JECNQ	0804119899	894910584	Heart of Gold	Books	5	12	13	N	N	What a great book	Archeologist Carter Wessex has been given a grant to unlock Revolutionary War secrets, buried with a doomed party of minutemen, on Farrell Mountain.  That is, if she can convince Nick Farrell, the mountain's owner, a.k.a., tycoon and corporate raider, to let her dig there.  Nick reluctantly agrees to let her do so, but also establishes ground rules that Carter is less than happy with.  Carter's name seems familiar, and when Nick realizes who she is related to, his cool business façade tells him he may stand to benefit all around from this decision.  Little does he realize what lies in store for his heart!<br />Arrogant, with a temper to boot, Nick's life starts to change the minute Carter walks on to his mountain.  Using the excuse of keeping an eye on her work, soon Nick can't keep his eyes off Carter, and fireworks fly between these two.  As the dig progresses, interesting artifacts and skeletons turn up, along with an unsavory associate of Carter's, showing more interest than what seems appropriate in her findings.  Carter's dad also makes an appearance, shattering the protective shell she has conveniently built around herself, and questioning Nick's business motives with her dad.  Is he just using her to conveniently close another deal, breaking her heart in the process?<br />The associates that Carter bring on the dig, and other members of Nick's family, provide some great moments, adding nice secondary features and slices of humor along the way.  I really liked the different archeological story line, and the many bits of history were very interesting, and not overdone.  I must add, that this Farrell reminds me of another, that being Matt Farrell from Judith McNaught's \\"Paradise\\", who is one of my favorite leading men.  Needless to say, I loved this book and look forward to more from this incredible author!	2003-06-05
US	43396715	R68J410B0U63T	0821773801	64553459	Midnight Sun	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Captivating wilderness journey	Charity Sinclair is ready to make some major life changes.  Leaving boyfriend Jeremy, and their deteriorating relationship behind, Charity purchases a mining claim in the Canadian Yukon and strikes out to pursue her dream adventure.  Leaving her job as editor of action and adventure novels at a large publishing firm behind, the call of the Yukon beckons, and Charity's adventure is about to start.<br />McCall Hawkins, powerhouse CEO in the software industry, is living in self-imposed exile in the Yukon, unable to cope with the loss of his wife and daughter in a car accident four years ago.  In the past several months, he has resumed work on a project he was involved with at the time of the accident, and ever so slowly re-emerging in the tech world.  Along comes Charity, disrupting his quiet world by banging away on repairs to her property.  Call decides to see what the new neighbor is up to, and is unable from that point on to stay out of her life.  They get off to a tumultuous start, but the relationship quickly turns passionate.  Unknowingly, the past is once again coming back to haunt Call, and after two attempts on his and Charity's lives, Call has to lay it all on the line to keep Charity safe.  Once the dust settles, Charity is forced back to Manhattan, leaving the man she knows she loves beyond all others behind.  Call still swears never to love again, but will this journey end here?<br />This wilderness journey captivates, and makes you wish you were there to experience the sights.  The balance of romance outweighs the suspense, but not by much.  Secondary characters, Maude and Toby add whit and humor, and even a touch of paranormal is thrown in for good measure.  True romantics will savor the ending, along with all the events leading up to it.  Another great read from this compelling author!	2003-06-02
US	43396715	RIG6ZF3HHLQOK	0451207963	541417988	The Deepest Edge	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Very interesting suspense thriller	Museum curator Valance St. Charles heads to Paris, France, determined to lure enigma Oriental millionaire Jian-Shan T'ang in to letting her museum display his White Tiger sword collection.  Her chauvinistic boss Drake Scribner makes it clear that if she fails, she will not have a job to return to.  Jian-Shan's business manager Madelaine abruptly tells Val that Jian will under no circumstances meet with her regarding the swords.  The ever-tenacious Val stows away in the trunk of Jian's limo, and makes her way to his estate, only to interrupt an assassination attempt on Jian and daughter Lily.  Jian-Shan feels responsible for Val's subsequent injuries, and vows to protect her from those determined to see him dead.<br />Jian's Chinese Tong chief father is attempting to bring his son back into his organization, and will stop at nothing to accomplish this.  Val finds herself caught in the middle, and soon she and Jian are on the run from his father and government agents determined to either capture or kill them.  Val and Jian's relationship sizzles, and little Lily complicates this situation even more.  They each carry a lot of baggage, but as danger surrounds them, they begin to realize their haunted pasts are best left there, if they can live long enough to see this crisis through.<br />Evil surrounds Jian's father, and the hurt he has caused others in horrendous.  Traitors have infiltrated Jian's life, and with a strong cast of secondary characters, add a few surprises in this fast paced suspense drama.  The exotic Orient is not frequent subject matter, and makes for a very interesting read.  Lovers of taught romantic suspense will enjoy \\"The Deepest Edge\\", the first in a trilogy.	2003-04-12
US	43396715	RAYYLT0PP2PB6	0821772155	617153706	The Fifth Victim	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Chilling tale of suspense	Deep in the mountains of Cherokee Point, Tennessee, Susie Richards has been murdered, a chilling human sacrifice.  Local psychic Genny Madoc has witnessed the murder through the eyes of the killer.  Sheriff Jacob Butler, Gennys cousin, has learned to trust in her visions, and finds the victim in the Cedar Tree Forest, where Genny said she would be.  FBI agent Dallas Sloan has been seeking the murderer of his niece, and believes these murders to be that of a serial killer.  A pattern in these killings develops, as the criminal murders four women, and when he moves on to the fifth victim, removes her heart and eats it.  Then the killer moves on to a new locale, and the pattern starts all over again.  When Dallas learns of the sacrificial murder in Cherokee Point, he believes another round has begun.<br />Dallas heads to Tennessee, and arrives in a blinding snowstorm, going off the road, and forced to find shelter from the storm.  He does, at Genny Madocs house.  She learns that Dallas has been in touch with Jacob regarding the murder, and offers to let him stay until the storm lets up.  As Genny and Dallas get to know one another, a strong bond develops between them, although Dallas finds Gennys visions a bit hard to accept.  As three more murders occur, he realizes shes right on target every time, and starts to accept her abilities.  While Dallas and Jacob work together to find a common link to the murders, they come to believe that Genny has been targeted to be the fifth victim.  Together they work to keep her safe, but even that proves to be not enough.  Will the race against time save Genny?<br />The small town of Cherokee Point has many secrets amongst the interesting characters that call this place home.  Will one of them prove to be the killer?  Genny and Dallas are a wonderful couple, she knowing Dallas is the man of her future, although it takes him awhile to pick up on this.  But, when he does theres no stopping him.  Fans of Beverly Barton will enjoy this intense suspense, the first in a trilogy that promises more thrills and chills to come!Barton will enjoy this intense suspense, the first in a trilogy that promises more thrills and chills to come!	2003-04-06
US	43396715	R4CFXYN9NVSV2	0821773399	419566247	After The Rain	Books	5	79	82	N	N	This is just a great story...	Suzanne Paris is on the run, her ex fianc&eacute; Anthony deSalvo making her life miserable, when she makes a snap decision to get off her Atlanta bound bus in Walton, Georgia.  Trying to find a ride into town, she encounters mayor Joe Warner, his 6 kids along with Aunt Lucinda, who insist she accompany them.  Walton is a small town, not even boasting a hotel, so Joe finds a place for Suzanne to stay, and unknowingly ensconces her into his, and his family's life.<br />Suzanne is unfamiliar with children, but Joe's kids seem to grow on her as she does them.  Joe, being the mayor, teacher and single dad, doesn't have much time left for relationships, and really hasn't considered once since his wife passed away.  But as the story progresses, he and Suzanne have something going on between them that can't be ignored, and with the help of the kids and huge cast of secondary characters, manage to snag time for themselves.<br />Suzanne knows the day will come when her past will catch up with her and she will have to move on, but this is made more difficult as Joe and half the population of Walton entwine themselves around her heart.  As Joe and Suzanne chip away at the armor surrounding their souls, and the local bully running against Joe for mayor try to make things more difficult for them, the reader can only hope that they get what they deserve in life, that being each other.  This is an exceptional book!	2003-04-03
US	43396715	R2C5IZOA6YLE0N	1551667525	611202174	Confessions	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An intriguing book.....	The murder of Laura Swann Fletcher, wife of senator and presidential hopeful Alan Fletcher, rocks the town of Whiskey River, Arizona.  Trace Callaghan spent 16 years on the Dallas police force, before accepting the job of sheriff in Whiskey River, where things like this haven't happened in years.  He will be tested over and over again in solving this murder, and to add fuel to the fire, Laura's sister Mariah returns to town, determined to help find the killer.<br />Politics aspirations and family skeletons have a big part in this story.  Mariah, a well known, award winning TV mystery writer, thinks she possesses the skills to assist Trace with his investigation, and has pegged her brother-in-law Alan as the killer.  Add to the plot that Laura was pregnant, and Alan was not the father, and another interesting turn of events - and suspects emerge.<br />Trace, being the upstanding, intelligent guy he is, tries to deny his growing feelings for Mariah, knowing his vulnerability to her will only compromise his investigation.  After attempts are made on Mariah's life, this plan goes by the wayside as the sparks fly between these two intriguing characters.  No one is whom they seem in Whiskey River, leaving a lot of secrets to uncover in this steamy and intricately plotted suspense.  JoAnn Ross delivers again, leaving readers guessing right up to the end.	2003-04-03
US	43396715	R3782MG1UT54FI	0060523387	589717051	Into Danger (Shadowy Assassins (S.A.S.S.), Book 1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Intense, sensual romantic suspense	Navy Seal Steve McMillan has been assigned an undercover job with the CIA's TIARA group.  His assignment, to play chauffer to the infamous assassin Marlena Maxwell and try to deduce whom her current target is.  Marlena is proficient at playing mind games, but so is Steve.  As she tries figure out what agency Steve really works for, and whose side of the game he is on, the fireworks explode between these compelling characters.<br />As the story builds, interesting secondary characters abound, each seeming to have their own agenda, playing a riveting game of cross and double cross.  Gathering intelligence and eliminating the good guys from the bad are the primary focus of the plot, and the suspense never lets up. Marlena has an agenda all her own, and being the professional she is, vows to see her job to the end.  But is she really what she appears to be?<br />Steve has his work cut out for him.  He's torn between getting his job done, while falling for the sexy Marlena.  These are two of the greatest leading protagonists to hit the pages in a long time.  This is an intensely sensual and suspenseful tale, which left me anticipating more to come from this great author.	2003-03-30
US	43396715	R1HEEZ6J3YPA1O	1929034954	826910165	A Breath of Heather	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Another exceptional book in this series....	Heather Carter is an elementary school teacher, and in the opening pages of this book, gang activity places the children on the playground in a perilous situation.  Heather uses her abilities to call the wind, thus averting the situation until the police arrive.  Enter Quinn Archer, student Brianna's dad, who has arrived to pick her up from school, and is an ex-ATF agent.  Quinn and Heather strike up a friendship over Brianna, which quickly develops into much more than the casual friendship it started out as.<br /><br />Both Quinn and Heather have troubled pasts. Due to the murder of Heather's husband, the suspicious death of her brother, and enemies Quinn made in his previous job, their enemies become common foe.  Quinn develops a fierce protective streak towards Heather, and vows to protect her from the gang threatening her.  Everyone Heather holds dear to her seems to meet with an untimely death, and although she knows deep down inside the deaths aren't her fault, she fears this will be the end result with Quinn also.<br />As the plot intensifies, Quinn sends Brianna away to keep her safe.  Quinn and Heather work together to survive the double cross against them, along with a cast of incredible secondary characters.  Will Quinn be able to accept the psychic ability Heather possesses, and build a life with her?  As in \\"Tears of the Hawk\\", this book has it all - riveting plot, suspense, romance, and wonderful characters.  Can't wait for Michael's story in the next book in this series!	2003-03-30
US	43396715	R2N2WTNRLI3AX3	0743454324	595541500	The Price: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Another winner for the Blackthorne-Creed clan	The saga of the Blackthornes and Creeds continues in this highly anticipated book in the Bitter Creek series.  This story focuses on Luke Creed, who has turned away from his family to pursue his career as an attorney for the prestigious firm of DeWitt and Blackthorne.  He's on a hot career path, likely to make partner in the firm within the next year, but along the way has sacrificed all other things in his life, including his marriage.  The one remaining bright spot is his personal life are daughters, Brynne and Midge, whom he manages to make time for on the weekends.<br />Luke's current assignment is to settle a wrongful death suit brought against Hyland Pharmaceutical, whom his company represents.  The case involves a new miracle drug, D-Free, for Type I Juvenile Diabetes, something close to Luke's heart since daughter Brynne has this disease.  Attorney for the opposition is Amy Nash, Luke's old high school sweetheart, also a divorcee raising her daughter Honor.  Amy's client lost her child while taking D-Free for her diabetes, and Amy is passionate in her arguments to get this dangerous drug off the market.  Amy is having a hard time accepting the fact that the once rebellious Luke is representing the corporate bad guys, along with the feelings that come back to life after not seeing Luke for many years.<br />As the investigation in to D-Free proceeds, Luke realizes the dangers of the drug that someone has been covering up.  Luke also needs to find out for his own peace of mind what the real issues are, since Brynne is taking this drug, against Luke's wishes.  Enter an interesting cast of secondary characters to help solve the mystery, a mysterious death of another attorney working on the case in Luke's firm, Luke and Amy's strong feelings for one another, and you have all the ingredients for an impressive story of danger and intrigue.  Then, there's Luke's mom Ren, married to Jackson Blackthorne, trying to finagle a way for Luke and Jackson to bury the bitter feud between them, not to mention getting Luke and Amy together again.  Fans of the Creed-Blackthorne saga will thoroughly enjoy this latest edition.  Note to new readers, this book stands alone too.  \\"The Price\\" does answer the question of what is too high a price to pay for what's really important in life.eud between them, not to mention getting Luke and Amy together again.  Fans of the Creed-Blackthorne saga will thoroughly enjoy this latest edition.  Note to new readers, this book stands alone too.  \\"The Price\\" does answer the question of what is too high a price to pay for what's really important in life.	2003-03-29
US	43396715	R2LPPDWTJA4475	037383571X	1719020	Dark Angel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	"Avenging Angel" is more like it...	Five years ago, Luciano De Valenza was convicted and imprisoned for embezzling from the Lynwood family's wine business.  Young Kerry Linwood was engaged to Luciano, but broke off their engagement the day before his arrest for reasons unknown to him.  Luciano has been released from prison, and is back to wreak havoc on those responsible for his arrest, and to clear his name in a crime he swears he did not commit.  For starters, he plans to take everything that belongs to the Lynwoods, including Ballybawn Castle, and already made a jump start destroying the Lynwood wine business while in prison.<br />So where does poor, naïve Kerry stand in all this?  Luciano wants her, of course, but swears all he is doing is purging his system of whatever leftover feelings he had for her.  Enter the evil stepsister Rochelle, dear old dad Harold Lynwood, and one must wonder if Kerry will ever have any self-respect after the games they play with her life.  The only family member who seems to genuinely care at all for Kerry is cousin Miles, and he even leaves us wondering at times.<br />The story line is a good one, and there are plenty of probable suspects in the embezzlement.  My problem was in understanding Kerry, her undying love for Luciano, who treats her less than well most of the time, and whose caveman attitude wears you down.  As in all romances, there does come a happy ending, but all to often in the course of the book I just had to wonder \\"why\\" - did Kerry put up with so much from everyone?  There are redeeming moments when she finds family unbeknownst to her, and they do help her develop a spine and stand up to others, along with adding some colorful whit and humor to the story.  It just took a long time to reach that point!  This was an OK read, but I was expecting more, and it just didn't materialize.	2003-03-17
US	43396715	RBQ781E5BUMLU	0373272790	148831097	Sins of the Father (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1209)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another winner from Nina Bruhns.....	Eighteen years ago, Roman Santangelo left his love,  RaeAnn without so much as a goodbye.  Roman is now a successful FBI agent, RaeAnn an archeologist, who is working on a dig in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, close to the Paiute Reservation where Roman grew up.  Roman roars back in to RaeAnn's life on his Harley, determined to seek forgiveness from her after 18 years of hurt, and solve the mystery of his father's death.  Did his father die a hero's death like everyone was led to believe, or was he really a criminal?  As RaeAnn's dig uncovers some interesting bones, this incredible mystery takes off in all directions.  Suspects abound, and it seems like everyone in the County has some shady business they try to cover up.<br />Mysteries from long ago are unraveled, old wounds opened up, and the intense desire Roman and RaeAnn once shared flares to life.  Will RaeAnn ever be able to forgive Roman, and take a chance on what the future may hold for them?  She is more than willing to assist Roman in his quest for answers regarding his father's death, but reluctantly guards her heart from breaking a second time around.<br />Along the way, they share old memories and make new ones.  Roman has believable reasons for leaving town 18 years ago, and once he and RaeAnn get beyond that, and learn to trust again, you want to stand up and cheer.  These are to very likeable characters that really like each other, and deserve happiness at last.  Nina Bruhns had done it again, given us credible, every day people in a real life situation to love!  Her books are incredible, whether writing as Nina Bruhns, or pseudonym Nikita Black.	2003-03-17
US	43396715	R6TB3E6LKWKJE	0515134899	385176147	Body Check (New York Blades)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Winning hockey story sports lovers will appreciate.....	Janna MacNeil is a successful publicist, recently hired by the New York Blades to get rid of their bad boy image. Kidco Corporation recently purchased the franchise and now wants to remake them into a family friendly team. After winning the Stanley Cup last year, the team paraded the cup into some pretty nefarious establishments, making the team a PR nightmare. If Janna can rehabilitate the images of spoiled soap stars, how tough can this job really be?  To put it mildly, she's about to find out!<br />Team captain Ty Gallagher, three time Stanley Cup winner, figures his job with the team is on the ice.  Trying to pacify corporate big wigs is not on his agenda.  While other team members sign up for appearances, Ty flatly refuses.  Ty and Janna go head to head over PR issues, while Lou Capesi, head of PR for the Blades, puts more pressure on Janna to force Ty's involvement.  Janna doesn't let Ty intimidate her, and his growing respect for Janna and her determination to do her job leads Ty into dangerous territory.  Ty doesn't get involved in serious relationships during the hockey season, preferring to concentrate on his game.  Plus a relationship between Janna and Ty could put both their jobs in jeopardy.  Will this year be the exception to the rule?<br />An interesting cast of secondary characters, and their agendas, makes this book a gem.  Plus, Deirdre Martin gives us a realistic look into the high-pressure corporate world of major league sports, and what it takes to be the best.  This was a thoroughly enjoyable read!	2003-03-15
US	43396715	R19X95GJJSQ9M9	038081918X	65675664	Getting Lucky (Marine, Book 2)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Bad boy gets good girl = entertaining read!	Tough guy, Master Sergeant Zachariah Taylor, and Marilyn Monroe look alike Lily Morrisette.  Whoever would have thought a relationship would work between the chef and big, bad Marine, but hey, stranger things have happened.  Zach figures Lily for another in a long line of cons trying to trick his naïve sister out of the family fortune, when in fact sis Glynnis and Lily have forged a lasting friendship.  Zack goes from rude and nasty to downright mean when he finds out Lily has a fianc&eacute;, and has left to head North to meet his family, figuring David is out for her money too.  When Zach decides it's time to follow Glynnis and rescue her from the gold digger, Lily goes along for the ride, knowing Glynnis and David truly love each other and Glynnis might need her help convincing Zach of the truth.<br />Lily and Zach's road trip is nothing short of amazing.  The humor Susan Andersen interjects, and outrageous cast of secondary characters make it possible to overlook Zach's nasty attitude.  Add in extortion, kidnapping, and of course Zach's macho Marine buddies who come to lend a hand, steamy sex and loveable Lily, and you have another Susan Andersen classic.  This is a light and humorous read, one to just sit back and enjoy!	2003-03-02
US	43396715	R25RKN4EI9H10N	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	5	5	8	N	N	This book WAS worth the wait...	Leigh Kendall and Logan Manning - the perfect couple who have it all. Logan, an architect, purchases a remote country property, where he plans to build their dream home. Leigh leaves to join Logan for her first visit to their new property, but in a blizzard, is run off the road.  Leigh awakens in the hospital only to find out Logan has disappeared, and she has become a prime suspect in the case.<br />Enter the mysterious Michael Valente, one of McNaught's best tall, dark and dangerous heroes, to lend assistance to Leigh in the search of her husband.  The case of secondary characters is superb.  Investigating officers Mac McCord and Samantha Littleton add depth and credibility to the police investigation, not to mention the sizzling romance budding between them.  Bring back a character or two from previous books, and the mix is perfect.<br />As the plot unfolds, we learn Logan was not the man his wife thought he was, but then neither is Michael Valente.  Suspects abound, and all of them seem to have good reason for wanting to get even with Logan.  Throw in some dirty politics with all of these multi-layered characters, and the suspense builds until the final pages.  With the romance and suspense so intricately woven, the emotions this author evokes will keep you glued to your chair until the final page.	2003-03-02
US	43396715	R1FB5DIC5XYICX	0743462769	821693045	Tropical Getaway	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This book is romantic suspense at it's best!	Ava Santori has waited five years to hear from her brother Marco.  And when word finally comes, it isn't good ...Marco is presumed dead, lost at sea during a hurricane in the Caribbean.  Determined to find out what went wrong, and also encouraged by attorney Grayson Boyd, who stands to make a killing off this disaster at sea, Ava heads to the island of St. Barts.<br />Dane Erikson is the owner of the luxurious Utopia Adventures cruise line, and challenges Ava to help discover what went wrong with the doomed ship, rather than side with the scum ball attorney.  Ava blames Dane for wanting to cash in on millions off this disaster, and also for sending the doomed \\"Paradisio\\" into the eye of the storm.  Dane blames Ava for not being a good sister to Marco, and cannot understand why she never got in touch with him for 5 years.  The continual misunderstandings between these two finally turns into a mutual concern to put the past behind them, and work together to solve the mystery of the doomed ship.<br />What happens along the way is awesome.  Dane is one of the most engaging heroes ever, and when he and Ava finally get together, the sensual fireworks ignite.  There are many twists and turns in the plot that will keep you guessing right up to the end.  The author takes the time to bring this entire story to conclusion, and leaves nothing out.  When most books would have ended, the publisher generously commits enough pages to bring everything to closure.  This book has it all - Kudos to this wonderful new author!	2003-02-12
US	43396715	R2AZ4G1RLTNZF1	1592799892	382055143	Tears of the Hawk (Sons of Earth and Wind)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Fabulous Paranornal Keeper!	Hawk Adams violent dreams are keeping him awake again, and while walking in the park in the early dawn hours, he finds Charity Starr attempting to fight off a couple of thugs trying to kidnap her.  Charity, a renowned scientist, is wanted for her solar energy research.  Charity has kept a tight reign on her empathic powers for many years, and while recovering in the hospital, realizes Hawk has a psychic link with her, one so powerful if could destroy her. Will Hawk ever be able to completely trust a woman again, and what is this special feeling of protectiveness he has for Charity?  Numerous kidnapping attempts are made on Charity, and with each attempt it is clear these people aren't giving up.  Through the process, Hawk and Charity learn to trust, heal one another, love and protect.  This is an outstanding story of intrigue, and the passion builds as the relationship between Charity and Hawk intensifies.  This was an excellent read, and the mix of paranormal was so well blended in to the story.  I did not want this book to end, but knowing that Book IV of \\"Sons of Earth and Wind\\" was released in January gives us more of the same to look forward to!  Grab the first three in this series and enjoy!	2003-02-09
US	43396715	R1AWWYKUBK4ARL	0553264044	459874673	This Stream of Dreams	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Over the top exotic read	Adam, Rashid and Mariella.  The past history of foreign lands entwined with today's world.  The foreign cultures and beliefs lend to this erotic story, but the basis that makes this all seem so real is the love between the main characters, for without the emotions, this story would not be the same.  I hated to see this book come to an end, and once finished, it stuck with me for a long time. The history of the exotic foreign lands and the descriptive narrative made you feel like you were there.  This book evokes many emotions in the reader as you progress to the end, which is exactly what a good book should do.  In searching the web, I have located several other books of Ms. Latow's that also feature the same characters, along with some new ones, and can't wait to read them.  Be warned however, they were a bit difficult to track down, but well worth the time I spent doing just that.	2003-02-09
US	43396715	R34HN907PX39KB	1592799892	382055143	Tears of the Hawk (Sons of Earth and Wind)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Fabulous Paranornal Keeper!	Hawk Adams violent dreams are keeping him awake again, and while walking in the park in the early dawn hours, he finds Charity Starr attempting to fight off a couple of thugs trying to kidnap her.  Charity, a renowned scientist, is wanted for her solar energy research.  Charity has kept a tight reign on her empathic powers for many years, and while recovering in the hospital, realizes Hawk has a psychic link with her, one so powerful if could destroy her. Will Hawk ever be able to completely trust a woman again, and what is this special feeling of protectiveness he has for Charity?    Numerous kidnapping attempts are made on Charity, and with each attempt it is clear these people aren't giving up.  Through the process, Hawk and Charity learn to trust, heal one another, love and protect.  This is an outstanding story of intrigue, and the passion builds as the relationship between Charity and Hawk intensifies.  This was an excellent read, and the mix of paranormal was so well blended in to the story.  I did not want this book to end, but knowing that Book IV of \\"Sons of Earth and Wind\\" was released in January gives us more of the same to look forward to!  Grab the first three in this series and enjoy!	2003-02-09
US	43396715	R2F34T2JNEC4EC	0440237599	162029379	Hot Pursuit	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Great Romantic Suspense!	What starts out as a routine rock climb for Taylor O\\"Toole, results in what appears as a freak accident, government officials bring in their big gun, Navy SEAL Jack Broussard to protect the lovely mystery writer.  Seems Taylor has a link with a missing Navy scientist (unbeknown to Taylor) and someone wants her out of the way.  What started out as a seemingly innocent favor to friend Candace, throws Taylor in to the fire, and Jack's arms.  Jack is none too thrilled to be assigned to what seems like a baby-sitting job, but it doesn't take long to convince him Taylor's life is in danger.  Of course Jack does not reveal to Taylor why he is following her, but every time an attempt is made on her life he's there to save the day.  As the stakes are upped, the sparks fly between these two, and staying alive takes on a whole new meaning.<br />Making cameo appearances, albeit brief, are Annie and Sam McCade from \\"My Spy\\", along with irresistible Izzy, who is a major player in this story.  On top of the attempts on Taylor's life, another plot line develops regarding her birth parents, a difficult thing for Taylor to deal with at this particular time in her life.<br />This is a wonderful romantic suspense with non-stop action. Numerous holes in the plot, along with Taylor's stubbornness that result in some foolish choices will frustrate some readers.  However, the passion between the lead protagonists and twist of surprise at the ending compensate the reader nicely.  Nothing too heavy here, just a fun and frivolous read!	2003-02-09
US	43396715	RNZ61DGKKFW8R	0446611891	521120474	Return to Oak Valley	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Contemporary winner!!	Having never read a book by this author, and then finding out it was her first contemporary romance was a pleasant surprise.<br /><br />Shelly Granger fled to New Orleans from her hometown in Oak Valley seventeen years ago, devastated by a broken heart thanks to Sloan Ballinger.  Shocking news of her brother's suicide forces her return to Oak Valley, and picking up the pieces of the ravaged Granger Cattle Company.<br />Many questions need to be answered, specifically why would Josh, who practically raised Shelly after the death of their parents, and her hero, commit suicide?  Why is the Granger Cattle Company practically non-existent, and who might have blackmailed Josh?  And what did Josh have to do with Nick's parentage? Add the old Granger - Ballinger feud, and the desire that still burns red hot between Sloan and Shelly, and you have the formula for a prefect romantic suspense.  Plus all the other alpha males in this book are just too much - I can definitely see future books (at least I hope there will be) for Jeb and Roman.  The delightful secondary characters are just too good not to be brought back to life in future books.	2003-01-04
US	43396715	R1PN50HZWOZGFR	0061083275	818516855	Second Chances	Books	3	24	27	N	N	Complicated and sad story	Two lonely strangers stranded at an airport on New Years Eve share a passionate, soul-stirring kiss. Their brief interlude is one that Matt Holt and Billie Jean Walker will never forget.<br />Two years later, Matt's son Scott arrives home from college for the summer with 3 friends in tow, and Matt is shocked to see that one of them is Billie Jean.  Matt and Billie don't share with Scott and his friends that they have previously met.  Although Scott has never been more than good friends with Billie, things become a bit awkward when he feels he must compete with his father for Billie's attention.  Billie has a lot of baggage that neither Scott or Matt are aware of, so after a few weeks she heads home to confront her evil father Jarrod, who has emotionally abused her her entire life, and try to settle matters at hand.  Months later, mentally and physically exhausted, she returns to Matt's ranch, and here's where things get really convoluted...just when I think this girl knows what she's doing and a good man when she sees it....well, you get the picture!<br />Having missed this book the first time around, and reading all the great reviews about it, I could hardly wait to read it.  And it was good, but so, so sad....will Billie Jean ever get it right? Will she ever stop crying?  Will she ever tell anyone, especially the man who loves her, the whole truth? And do men like Matt  (and Scott) really exist?  I doubt most have the patience, or the financial means, to do all the things Matt does for Billie, which is where the book borders on unbelievable.  I love most of Sharon Sala's books, the Gambler's Daughters being some of the best I have ever read. Halfway through this book, it became too bogged down with sad emotions and tears, with too few happy pages at the end for my liking.	2003-01-04
US	43396715	RPH76IR11AH7V	0380818965	864862928	Then Comes Marriage	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Bravo - another winner from Christie Ridgway!!	Bram Bennett sold his company to Warren Witherspoon, who then forced a marriage of convenience with his daughter Honor.  Warren's ultimatum:  marry Honor to keep her safe from her recent kidnappers, or he would destroy the economy of Bram's home town of Hot Springs.  Bram, a techno wizard turned recluse since his wife's death eight years ago, reluctantly complies, unaware of how his life is about to change.<br />Honor is bound and determined to start her life over in Hot Springs and embraces her new community, and reluctant husband, with her zest for life and refusal to be made an invalid by her kidnappers.  The quirky characters of the community, along with yet another romantic liaison between Mia and bad man Josh, add life to a plot that has been used over and over again. In the hands of this gifted author, she turns it in to a poignant and hilarious love story, where everyone learns once again the value of love, trust and truly finding home.  I enjoyed the fireworks and fun in this fabulous book!	2003-01-04
US	43396715	R1NNXSSIWI85IH	0380820552	790279630	Getting Her Man	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ms. Albert is at her best.....	Somewhere along the line I read that Michelle Albert likes to write romances where the girls get to have all the fun.  And I would say she definitely achieves that goal in this book.  Before I go any further, let me also say that if you can get your hands on a copy of \\"Absolute Trouble\\" (written as Michelle Jerott), read this too.  It was great to catch up with some of those characters in this book.<br />Jack and Diane's story has it all - chemistry that sizzles right from the start, my favorite New Orleans locale, interesting and refreshing story line that hasn't been used over and over again - and what makes that so good is the author's background in archaeology.  Will Diana get her man?  Oh yeah...from the moment Diana walks in to Jack's office, the game begins, and doesn't let up until the end.  Can't wait to see what she has in store for Detective Halloran!	2002-12-30
US	43396715	R3MG6LOML9W6IO	0312983743	368981056	Knock Me Off My Feet	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Terrific contemporary romance.....	What a terrific book, along with a refreshing story line.  There's a lot going on in this book, aside from the police investigation, as to who's responsible for the threats to Homey Helen.  We have the baseball and soccer events, the great Irish family get-togethers, and of course the romantic angle.  For a new author, keeping all this in balance and still remain unequivocally entertaining, says a lot!<br />As the relationship develops between Audie and Quinn, you find yourself rooting for them to succeed as a couple.  Audie needs a real family, and who better to give that to her than Quinn?  I fell in love with Quinn and his family.  The background characters were well developed, and were almost a story within a story.  Also, given the intensity of the threats against Homey Helen, the humor in the other parts of the story keep this book from becoming too bogged down.  Plus, the finger points in more than one direction as the identity of the stalker, and keeps you guessing right up to the end.  Can't wait for Susan Donovan's next book!!	2002-12-30
US	43396715	R3RP2OGUMFTGVD	0451192524	389362721	Ritual Sins	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Dark,erotic and dangerously wonderful book	It took me awhile to track down a used copy of this book, but after reading the reviews here, I knew it would be time well spent - and was I right!  True to Anne Stuart form, this book does not disappoint.  You develop a love/hate relationship with the characters, and the many twists and turns will keep you on an emotional roller coaster right up till the end.  The cult angle had me questioning whether or not I would really like this book, but given the author, I should have known what the end result would be.  This is one SUPER book!	2002-12-06
US	43396715	RW19E28XLASU4	0821771205	980204258	The Mating Game (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hilarious Comtemporary Read	I just finished reading \\"To Die For\\" and decided I must read more by this wonderful author.  I won't recap what has already been said in previous reviews, other than to say this book was so humerous, I found myself laughing out loud quite often and loving every minute of it!  This is the kind of book you need to read for no other reason than pure enjoyment - and enjoy it you will!	2002-11-10
US	43396715	R1GADOISA42UCE	0821771213	683299037	To Die For	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wonderful Romantic Suspense!!	Abby St James finally returns to New York, stepping in to oversee her twin sister Michaela&#146;s interest in &#147;Bastian&#148; men&#146;s magazine, left to Abby by her late father, but most recently to Micky&#146;s best (?) intentions.  From sexy Italian publisher Stefan to the secretaries, everyone mistakes Abby for Micky, and Abby decides it might be easier to accomplish her task if she lets everyone believe she is Micky.  Except that everyone hates Micky, some enough to want to see her dead.<br />Abby starts falling for Stefan, and vice versa.  As Abby continues the deception of being Micky, the ensuing revenge against Micky escalates.  So does the passion between Abby and Stefan, whose heart is definitely in the right place.  Add a past history of sexual abuse, a life threatening illness and its culmination, this story line will keep you on the edge of your seat right up to the end.  I found this is a somewhat emotional story for a suspense novel, but lends to the strength of the characters becoming who they are and giving them more depth.<br />This us my first read by Melanie George, but definitely not my last.  I immediately picked up &#147;The Mating Game&#148; and laughed through this whole entertaining book.  Her heroes are to die for (no pun intended), and I look forward to reading the &#147;Devil&#148; series	2002-11-10
US	43396715	RDSSMQPTXLHAP	1551669390	990412656	Dark Water (Mira Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Romance Keeper	Sarah was only 10 years old, when her beloved father Frank vanished, along with one million dollars from the bank that employed him.  The ensuing viscous scandal prompted Frank&#146;s wife to commit suicide, and Sarah was sent to her Aunt Lorett in New Orleans, much to the relief of the citizens of Marmet, Maine.  20 years after the scandal, Frank&#146;s body is recovered from the bottom of Flagstaff Lake, and Sarah returns to Marmet, convinced he was murdered, not the thief he was made out to be.  Enter Tony &#147;Silk&#148; DeMarco, local bad boy who turned his life around, thanks to Frank&#146;s help, when he was a teenager.  Determined to assist Sarah in her quest for retribution, and to repay old debts to Frank, Tony and Sarah begin their search for the killer.  Attempts are made to silence them, and Tony&#146;s feelings for Sarah rapidly grow to more than just protector.  Aunt Lorett comes toMarmet lend her support to Sarah,  and proves a most interesting secondary character, along with other townsfolk and muscle Tony brings in to aide in the search for the killer.<br />&#147;Dark Water&#148; is a fast paced suspense, with just the right amount of romance mixed in.  &#147;Silk&#148; is a hero to die for, as is customary for Sharon Sala&#146;s leading men, and Sarah is a remarkably strong woman, considering what she has been through.  All in all, a very enjoyable read.	2002-11-10
US	43396715	R33FPHYSSPS2YE	155166920X	413423666	Desperado	Books	4	11	12	N	N	DP does it again...	No one beats Diana Palmer for sensual anticipation; this most recent story is no exception.  Maggie introduced in \\"Lord of the Desert\\", hops a plane back to the states to be with Cord, who is recuperating from an eye injury sustained while disarming an explosive device.  Cord lashes out at Maggie, who is heartbroken over his hostility, and what she gave up overseas to return to Cord's side.<br />The pace picks up from this point on; the sexual tension flying like sparks between Cord and Maggie. Enter the Lassiter Detective Agency, and the mission to bring down Gruber and his international bad boys is off and running.<br /><br />Cord and Maggie struggle throughout with their tormented pasts, especially Maggie, who has been through more than any woman should ever have to face. Can any man ever convince Maggie to trust again?<br /><br />This book is what we have come to love and expect from DP. The hero is DP's usual arrogant alpha male, the heroine vulnerable, but they get beyond their usual bickering and on to the main story line rather quickly.  Plus we get to find out what characters from past books are up to, and leave us wondering whom the next Soldier of Fortune book will be about.  Makes for a light enjoyable read in-between the heavy-duty stuff.	2002-07-02
