US	43395714	R328TE7W5Y7KQM	0671776134	362447474	Plain Truth: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Truly gripping	I really enjoyed this novel by Picoult, predominantly due to the premise and background of the story, but also because of the strong character development. I did not have any prior information of the Amish other than passing information, and am not sure what Picoult captured is an accurate representation of the life of the Amish, however, her writing made one sympathetic towards what seemed a much misunderstood group of people. I especially enjoyed the flashbacks of Katie regarding her visits to her brother, Jacob, and how she went into a relationship with his landlord. The relationships between the protagonists have also been very well explored - especially that between Ellie and Coop and also between Ellie and Fishchers. The idyllic life of the Fischers makes one see what is important in life - peace, quiet, and the companionable company of people you love. An engaging and gripping novel, I found it hard to put down and was satisfied with the conclusion of the novel. An extremely hard-to-put down read with an emotionally satisfying ending.	2005-08-21
US	43395714	R3NXB9PMB10XHL	1840189681	115491927	Kathy's Story: A Childhood Hell Inside the Magdalen Laundries	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Harrowing read	This book made me really angry. It is an indictiment on how the neglect of the state allowed the church to exploit many young people and destoyed the lives of many children through reform school, psychiatric units as well as the Magdalene Laundries. How could they have gotten away with it? The most disgusting bit was when letters from Kathy's mother was with held from her by the nun in the reform school and only brought to light in a meeting 30 years after to throw her off balance. That was just callous and cruel. It strikes me how conveniently perpetrators of evil always manage to justify their acts by referring to religion, law, or 'good' when their actions lack humanity of any sort and only lead to the destruction of innocent lives. Kathy's personal strength in overcoming the odds and yet maintaining a loving, caring, empathetic core is remarkable, but what about others who are not able to find that strength within themselves? I hope that Kathy's case and that of many others get resolved soon so that these institutions and people can be publicly named and shamed and made to compensate for their horrendous abuse of power and the number of young lives they have ruined.	2005-08-18
US	43395714	R7PK45KSTKOXH	0151010285	508293598	Some Great Thing	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A slow read	I did not understand alot about Canada or the building trade and was not particularly interested in the book when I started reading it. I do find the narrative style interesting, and am alot more interested in the Jerry McGuinty storyline than that of Simon Struthers. Parts of the book reminded me of Michael Chabon's 'The Wonder Boys' - the parts of mindless frivolity as represented by Simon. The part of the book I most enjoyed was the last 20-30 pages which explored Jerry's longing for his missing son, Jer and how they reach an understanding in the end. The last few pages were perhaps the most moving of any I have read about father-son relationships. Though not very sympathetic towards McGuinty in the beginning - for being a complete walkover for his wife to being too obsessed about work for a personal life, the last section of his redemption in Jer's eyes made me tearful. I think it shows how love can be expressed in different ways but also surely that it has to be heard and felt often enough. The entire premise about promise and potential is fascinating as it is juxtoposing something physical - land and building - against something personal and intangible. All the characters have/ had promise, but how they turned out was another matter altogether depending on the choices they made.	2005-08-18
US	43395714	R14596FZUTEX64	1400040957	821374449	Istanbul: Memories and the City	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Istanbul Memories	I visited Istanbul about 10 years ago as part of a tour group and went back again this year after all that time. Istanbul never fails to mesmerise and invigorate and excite. It is such a lovely, magnificent city and Pamuk's book brings that out but also highlights the hidden bits/ historical curiosities which visitors might not be aware of. I found the information about his family rather boring and draggy, but it was an interesting background to a man shaped by his city. Pamuk has a wonderful gift of holding the attention of this readers, and though it was somehow lacking in this book - mainly due to the fact that it's autobiographical - the subtle humour he posseses still came through. I love the pictures as well, which brought to live what Pamuk was recounting.	2005-08-18
US	43395714	R1JATL2F27XIOR	0593048172	677999243	Out of the Dark: A Compelling Psychological Detective Story to Discover the Dark Heart of One Woman's Past	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Inspiring and heart breaking	This book tells the story of a remarkable woman who has endured alot of pain and hardship in her life. Spanning 3 continents and all the various incidents which encompasses her life experiences, Linda Caine's story tells of a woman's re-awakening to the worst horror of her life - having been abused as a child with her mum complicit. I was fasinated by how the truth which she managed to block out for most of her life came back in an insidious way to haunt her. It is almost as if it was forcing her to acknowledge it, and almost as if her unconscious was adamant that she realised what it was she had gone through. Linda Caine's courage and strength in the face of all this revelation and how her faith pulled her through is uplifting and inspiring. I also enjoyed reading about the people who cared for her and who were selfless in their wish to see her recover and gain control over her life again. It is amazing how a woman who has lived through so many bad times has such a love and zest for life and all things living. It's a miracle that none of the nastiness and evil in life has managed to tarnish the core of her person. A very honest and heart felt piece of writing, and a real triumph for those who survived the difficult period.	2005-04-10
US	43395714	R1GMUEPHBYZD5U	1400076943	765418048	Purple Hibiscus: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Superb read	Adichie's novel is a wonderful read. It is poetic and sparing and yet deals with important issues and fascinating ideas. It discusses religion and concepts of good and evil. Though Kambili's father is violent and brutal, he is also loving and generous towards his community. It explores ideas of colonialism and how the Western world views Africa and their other colonies. One of the most memorable statements made by Kambili was when the sister/ mother in school failed to understand why they did up their houses in the suburbs like palaces when they only spent a week or 2 in it a year. Kambili's response was that there is no need to find the reason for everything, to seek to understand, as that's just the way things are done. Oftentimes when cultures come together there is always a desire to unravel to seek to explain when really, there should just be mutual acceptance. The book was also very well written when exploring the growth of Kambili into a young woman as well as how she starts to speak, smile and even laugh. Jaja is also a fascinating character in the way he progresses and changes through the influence of his aunt Ifeoma and the exposure to a world outside of his father's rules. Other well developed characters are Father Amadi and aunt Ifeoma, so that it feels like you're watching real people on a screen rather than just reading about them in a book. A wonderful, moving study of beliefs, world views, religion, love, relationships and good evil, Adichie's novel paints a colourful Africa full of life, pride and passion as well as a gift of renewing itself.	2005-04-03
US	43395714	R336TDN3I52KI4	0434010472	986228379	My Father's War	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Commentary on Family Relationships	I am not sure what to make of this book, as it was all a little disjointed and in the air. I suppose that is the feeling that readers are meant to be given as that is what the protagonist has had to live with, having gotten information on his family in bits and pieces and never really knowing what the reality is. Is reality an absolute or is it subjective and personal? The novel is an interesting piece of work commenting on the legacies of war as well as secrecy within a family - how damaging both are and how it self-perpetuates. When the narrator was not having an amusing aside, the tenderness in his tone came through which symbolised the love-hate relationship he had with his father. Not an easy read, but has valuable insights and comments.	2005-03-18
US	43395714	R3MNLV5I13B4TR	0805057633	587795843	Once In A House On Fire: A Memoir	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Depressing but Uplifting in Spirit	Andrea Ashworth's book is testament to the strength in the human spirit. I was going backwards and forwards between feeling repulsed by her mother's inaction to being amazed at the coping strategies and abilities of Ashworth and her sister's. I feel it hard to swallow that at the end of the book Ashworth thanked her mother for her spirit, etc. I wonder what has happened since the book was published and whether her mother has recognised how she has failed her children. Her 'blindness' and selfishness was astounding. Ashworth's book was interesting also due to tha fact that it was based in Manchester and it was a valuable social commentary and insight into what parts of the city was like before. A must read for everyone to wake up to the fact of how prevalent abuse is in society and how it manages to escape people who choose to look the other way.	2005-03-15
US	43395714	R3VQ8GVLU66RQW	0375406972	667466602	Snow	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Gripping	Orhan Pamuk has a great gift of gripping his readers within 2 pages of his books and SNOW was no exception. I was initially rather apprehensive as it looked too daunting but within the first few pages I was hooked. A book about extremes and limits, SNOW explores how far people are willing to go for their beliefs, religion, love and life. Ka, the protagonist, allows himself to be a pawn in the battle between the 'Islamic fundamentalists' and the 'Westernised liberals' while pursuing his true love, or what he believed was love. Ipek allows herself to believe in a new life and is willing to make use of Ka to achieve that. Blue's supporters are driven to murder due to their belief in Blue and his ideas. SNOW is also an engaging thesis of ideas. Every conversation between Ka and Blue reflects the dilemmas that Turkey, as a modern nation, has to grapple with, day in and out. It also highlights how some of these ideas though not entirely exclusive, has managed to create a wide schism in the belief system of the country. A wonderful, atmospheric read which brings the essence of small town Turkey home to the reader. I can hardly wait for Pamuk's next offering!	2005-03-15
US	43395714	R31GVWI3YERBKD	0330480596	886296913	Made in Yugoslavia	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Slow moving	I thought the book had an interesting concept to it and was probably very realistic, seeing how friendships and relationships across ethnic boundaries were affected by the war in Yugoslavia. However the beginning was slow-moving and was a little too blase for me to get into. The author's purpose was perhaps to portray and develop his characters and present what their lives were like before they all descended into the ensuring insanity, but the pace and tone of the novel just did not engage me. I found it hard to connect with characters who all seemed detached and dismissive of what was going on, and it was hard to find a moral core in any of them. The novel did however give an interesting perspective on how ordinary lives can be affected by extraordinary events.	2005-02-13
US	43395714	R3723OH8YNTXWE	0152053107	324887263	A Northern Light	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I love it!	I read the UK edition of this book titled 'A Gathering Light'. It is a fantastic book and had me hooked from the very beginning. Admittedly I am quite a sucker for turn of the century novels involving rural communities, but it was the way Jennifer Donnelley worked with historical fact and made her characters believable and engaging that made the novel stand out. The research that had gone into the book made it all the more believable, from the farm chores to food to how it is like to work in a posh hotel frequented in summer by ignorant and snobbish city people. I especially liked the main character Mattie and her play with words, as well as her relationship with Weaver, her best friend who is black. The dilemmas that Mattie comes face to face with brings out her maturity and sensibility, as well as the fact that she is a child and acts like one sometimes. She has a mischievious streak, but is also very generous and is able to see people for that they are rather than what they do. The discourses on racism in America post slavery and the battle between one's responsibilities to family and that to one's self was realistic and moving. This is sacrilege, but if a TV series/ movie is made out of this, I am watching it for certain!! A wonderful, uplifting book filled with fascinating characters, drama, suspense and poignant social and political messages, this is a must read!	2005-02-07
US	43395714	R1YU8T68NPGW8U	0553381970	138668501	Sickened: The True Story of a Lost Childhood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Inspirational	Julie Gregory's memoir is astounding on many levels. Mainly the fact that she managed to survive all foroms of abuse (mental, emotional, physical, neglect) and managed to carve a 'normal' life out for herself. Her brave and honest account of her childhood serves to highlight the immense vulnerability of children and the difficulty in proving abuse has happened. After reading the book I visited the author's website and was appalled that the state system is allowing Sandy access to children once again despite evidence provided by different fields on her unsuitability of being a carer to anyone. I am surprised that she has not been admitted into a mental facility!! Truly grim, but a story that has rightly, and necessarily, been told.	2005-02-07
US	43395714	RCLCH5DG9CJH6	0743243315	864788878	Brick Lane: A Novel	Books	2	11	13	N	N	Boring and did not make me care	For someone who never puts a book down once I have started no matter how little it appeals to me, I did the impossible and gave up reading the rest of Brick Lane when I arrived at 200 pages. The reviews on Monica Ali's book promised so much, but gave so little. A long drawn out book with a few redeeming scenes (when Nazneen's first child was ill in hospital and she and Chanu took turns to keep watch), Brick Lane is tough going. Especially annoying was the gibberish from Nazneen's sister which I assumed was meant to be Bengali expressed in direct transliteration. The characters were neither fascinating nor inspirational nor interesting nor deserving of empathy. Of course if I had plodded on I might have changed my mind, but the point being that it was so un-engaging there was no desire on my part to get to the end of it.	2005-02-07
US	43395714	R2YTJFPBAN7P8L	1400034345	891369436	A Sunday at the Pool in Kigali	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant and Evocative	A wonderful book which contains some of the best dialogue and exchanges ever about the difference between blacks and whites and the hatred that eats into people. Very descriptive and evocative, this book gives voice to the legacy of colonialism, human relationships, politics and love. What I liked most about it was the honesty, all the characters were inspiring in their own way but we were also aware of their weaknesses, and were able to accept that is what makes them whole as a person. It doesn't try to make excuses for anything but offers an acute observation of life that only a few people who take the time will be able to notice. In spite of the brutality that ensued, there was genuine friendship, caring, courage and bravery which allows humanity to be redeemed. My favourite characters are Emerita who was full of life and daring, Valvourt, who was very self aware esp of his weaknesses, Gentille noble and beautiful and the personal growth which love creates in her, and her father and cousin who lamented the destruction that would descend when friends and relatives killed one another. A must-read and important reminder that 'Never Again' does not mean anything unless the international community ensures the promise is kept.  <br />	2005-02-04
US	43395714	R2RP1BXU8OP9R	0316734500	36886929	The Bookseller of Kabul	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Interesting but somehow lacking	It is a very readable book though one must keep in mind that it's a purported portrait of one Afghan family. I do not agree that it panders to Western ideas of society, it's just inevitable for us to read information through cultural blinkers and our personal understanding of society and how relationships work. It is thus natural for the author to feel what she does about the Afghan society where the male plays a dominating role. Not sure about where the author gets information on the thoughts and feelings of the characters but I think she has done a good job in expressing the frustration and I actually enjoyed reading the book after going through the dreadful preface where the author seemed more intent on talking about herself than the content of the book. Interesting concept, but there is something seriously missing, perhaps sincerity.	2005-02-04
US	43395714	R1HKQANN3QUDO1	0753109794	904183457	Island Madness (Isis (Audio))	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Enlightening &amp; Provocative	Tim Binding's book sets as its scene the German occupation of Guernsey during the Second World War. The people, who differ from the mainland English due to their former French identity, are made to live with their occupants in 'harmony'. This is something that some characters find easy to do while others struggle at it. Some, however, do it for convenience and to raise their social standing. The novel questions the moral decisions these characters make in a world which is distorted and unreal, making the entire question of morality warped as the island is camptured in a time when nothing feels real. What the would have decided at peacetime is not something they will opt for in times of trouble. Binding's novel is illuminating in exploring the human condition, and the prioritisation of values which bring out the true nature of a human being in crisis. A good read.	2003-07-14
US	43395714	R1SYLE2G6TOXDS	0684828006	240511001	The Road to Hell: The Ravaging Effects of Foreign Aid and International Charity	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Reality of the Aid Business	Michael Maren's book is an illuminating look into the world of international humanitarian organisations. Although his book deals specifically with the entry of US aid and donations into Africa, his study reveals many truths about the humanitarian business whether it's in Africa, or other parts of the Third World. I worked with one such organisation before and it's true what he brings up, that the world of humanitarian workers is increasingly being corporatised. There is a world of NGOs to choose from now as opposed to the past when there used to be only the Red Cross and a handful of other organisations involved in disaster response and emergency relief work. Governments all over the world are also increasingly involved in such work, due to the pressure from their citizens to be more responsible world players and to be responsive to the needs of the less fortunate in the global community we live in. With more players in the humanitarian field, there is more competition, and there is a need to run it like a business to make sure you get the funding you require for your programmes. This in itself, is not a negative transformation as there have been examples of aid organisations being better run and more efficient, if one looks more closely at the profit margin (in terms of results, not money). However, this changes the focus of organisations from one of helping others in distress to one of making as much money as possible from the donors. In this transition, many NGOs seem to be losing sight of the reason they exist in the first place. Maren attacks the NGOs he has worked with but also gives the other side of things. Donors are at fault too, they tend to assume that just because Third World countries need help, they can just dump anything that is not wanted on them. Many times, through my experience, donors practically throw stuff they don't need out the window, assuming that anything is good enough for people in the developing world. This arrogance and stupidity is frustrating fr aid workers. In taking the easy way out of contributing things they do not require, donors only appease their feelings of guilt, and worse, this lack of analysis and thought process allows the donors to be exploited. The aid business is a vicious cycle, with all players having a responsibility to make it work. Not just the NGOs and donors, but also the recipients as well. As Maren illustrated, this business is alot more touchy and dangerous than anything else as it deals with human lives, not just money. A must-read for those who want a real look into the mechanics of the humanitarian enterprise.	2002-09-25
US	43395714	R14NVDRXCSM6N9	0385259026	267416922	Jan Wong's China : Reports from a Not-So-Foreign Correspondent	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Ok Read for Information	Jan Wong's book on China is an interesting read about the transition in China in the 1990s and how economics and money talk matters more to the common population than ideology or politics. In the rapidly changing landscape of China, the Communist Party is losing its relevance and consequently, its hold over the people. In terms of content, Wong's book is an illuminating read, and delves into not-often-seen segments of Chinese society (homosexuals, prostitutes and village communities). However in terms of writing style, we are left with more to hope for. Some of the conclusions Wong draws appear illogical. In trying to portray the new callous Chinese society, she speaks of how they are unwilling to step forth and donate blood. However, in the same breath, she admits the ignorance of the Chinese population in relation to blood donation which is seen as something seriously detrimental to their health. In this respect, how could she have drawn the conclusion that they are selfish? You can't be selfish or callous if you're acting based on false information or lack of education can you? Coming from the Western perspective, she also gives the typical impression that Communism was disastrous and there was nothing good in it, when there was liberation of women, equality, a sense of community and basic securities. These were some of the virtues that Communist rule provided not only for China, but the other Communist countries like Russia. Communism wasn't fallacious as an ideology, it was just too much of an utopia for human beings, being materialistic, corrupt and selfish, to achieve. Entertaining read, but I look forward to reading more on China by someone who writes better and gives his/ her subject more credence and respect.	2002-09-12
US	43395714	R2MLU0G9U8AJNZ	0385259395	267416922	Jan Wong's China : Reports from a Not-So-Foreign Correspondent	Books	3	1	3	N	N	OK Read for Information	Jan Wong's book on China is an interesting read about the transition in China in the 1990s and how economics and money talk matters more to the common population than ideology or politics. In the rapidly changing landscape of China, the Communist Party is losing its relevance and consequently, its hold over the people. In terms of content, Wong's book is an illuminating read, and delves into not-often-seen segments of Chinese society (homosexuals, prostitutes and village communities). However in terms of writing style, we are left with more to hope for. Some of the conclusions Wong draws appear illogical. In trying to portray the new callous Chinese society, she speaks of how they are unwilling to step forth and donate blood. However, in the same breath, she admits the ignorance of the Chinese population in relation to blood donation which is seen as something seriously detrimental to their health. In this respect, how could she have drawn the conclusion that they are selfish? You can't be selfish or callous if you're acting based on false information or lack of education can you? Coming from the Western perspective, she also gives the typical impression that Communism was disastrous and there was nothing good in it, when there was liberation of women, equality, a sense of community and basic securities. These were some of the virtues that Communist rule provided not only for China, but the other Communist countries like Russia. Communism wasn't fallacious as an ideology, it was just too much of an utopia for human beings, being materialistic, corrupt and selfish, to achieve. Entertaining read, but I look forward to reading more on China by someone who writes better and gives his/ her subject more credence and respect.	2002-09-09
US	43395714	R1Q59U1GE18PKR	0375406956	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Dissertation on Perspectives	Orhan Pamuk's \\"My Name is Red\\" is a novel of many layers rolled into one -- it is a murder mystery, a love story, and most of all, a thesis of ideas. In this whodunit about the murder of a miniaturist engaged in a secret project commissioned by the Ottoman Sultan and the subsequent race to find the killer, Pamuk's book is special as the tale is told in first person narration from the point of view of the key characters. Through their reflections, alot is revealed on their personal values in relation to art and money, the comparison on artistic techniques of East and West, history, honour, religion, respect and preserving the old vs. admitting the new. Pamuk's historical novel successfully recreates the society in Ottoman times and the relationships between the key characters slowly unravel to reveal the world of miniaturists engaged by the Sultan in the royal workshop, the intrigues, jealousies and the love for art which binds them together. The gradual disappearance of Persian artistic traditions and the invasion of Western artistic form and style is a poignant reminder of the things society give up in the name of progress and how one culture gets obliterated and substituted by another through time. This suspenseful, engaging and thrilling book is a winner as it can be read on many levels which run independent of one another but overlap as well. The dilemmas on identity, the tensions between East and West, the sacrifice for progress and religion are still prevalent and significant to the Turkey of today. A must read for anyone interested in Turkey culture, or just anxious for a suspenseful read.	2002-09-02
US	43395714	R200U1L6R6483N	0375406956	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An Eloquent Dissertation on Perspectives	Orhan Pamuk's \\"My Name is Red\\" is a novel of many layers rolled into one -- it is a murder mystery, a love story, and most of all, a thesis of ideas. In this whodunit about the murder of a miniaturist engaged in a secret project commissioned by the Ottoman Sultan and the subsequent race to find the killer, Pamuk's book is special as the tale is told in first person narration from the point of view of the key characters. Through their reflections, alot is revealed on their at times competing values in relation to art and money, the comparison on artistic techniques of East and West, history, honour, religion, respect and preserving the old vs. admitting the new. Pamuk's historical novel successfully recreates the society in Ottoman times and the relationships between the key characters slowly unravel to reveal the world of miniaturists engaged by the Sultan in the royal workshop, the intrigues, jealousies and the love for art which bind them together. The gradual disappearance of Persian artistic traditions and the invasion of Western artistic form and style is a poignant reminder of the things society give up in the name of progress and how one culture gets obliterated and substituted by another through time. This suspenseful, engaging and thrilling book is a winner as it can be read on many levels which run independent of one another but overlap as well. The dilemmas on identity, the tensions between East and West, the sacrifice for progress and religion are still prevalent and significant to the Turkey of today. Pamuk's spiralling dissertation is a continuation of the themes discussed in \\"The White Castle\\" and is a must-read for anyone interested in Turkey culture, anxious for food for thought or a suspenseful read.	2002-09-02
US	43395714	R3UL6X5FRJF0H	0881844543	388891755	The Towers of Trebizond	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Multi-layered	I picked up \\"Towers of Trebizond\\" mainly because of the title, as I am an avid reader of literature and travel writing on Turley. Macaulay's books seems simple and a good laugh at the first read, but is a book with many layers of meaning. Even the genre of the book is hard to define. On first look it is just a novel, on the second look, it's similar to a travelogue and is no doubt written based on the author's personal experiences. On the third level, it's a dissertation on religion and morality. Through recounting the travels of a group of English missionaries in Turkey, Macaulay brings out the importance of the differences between the East and West, in religion and culture, and also how one sticks to one's impression of the unknown (in this case, Russia) though one has no actual experience or encounter in this regard. The book is illuminating in its discussion of relationships, love, betrayal, friendship, religion and morality and it's ultimately about lives and the choices we make in them. What's right or wrong is not absolute and instead is relative to the environment one lives in. Through the beguiling humour of her characters, Macaulay is able to discuss important issues we confront in our lives without taking sides or being judgemental and leaves us to make our own conclusion about what we value and deem important.	2002-08-19
US	43395714	R35939C9ETH8XJ	0881844543	388891755	The Towers of Trebizond	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Multi-layered	I picked up \\"Towers of Trebizond\\" mainly because of the title, as I am an avid reader of literature and travel writing on Turley. Macaulay's books seems simple and a good laugh at the first read, but is a book with many layers of meaning. Even the genre of the book is hard to define. On first look it is just a novel, on the second look, it's similar to a travelogue and is no doubt written based on the author's personal experiences. On the third level, it's a dissertation on religion and morality. Through recounting the travels of a group of English missionaries in Turkey, Macaulay brings out the importance of the differences between the East and West, in religion and culture, and also how one sticks to one's impression of the unknown (in this case, Russia) though one has no actual experience or encounter in this regard. The book is illuminating in its discussion of relationships, love, betrayal, friendship, religion and morality and it's ultimately about lives and the choices we make in them. What's right or wrong is not absolute and instead is relative to the environment one lives in. Through the beguiling humour of her characters, Macaulay is able to discuss important issues we confront in our lives without taking sides or being judgemental and leaves us to make our own conclusion about what we value and deem important.	2002-08-19
US	43395714	R2QT0PTTIQGS4B	0813335337	781263163	Endgame: The Betrayal And Fall Of Srebrenica, Europe's Worst Massacre Since World War II	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Politicians Make the War not Militarians	The version of Rohde's book I read is titled 'A Safe Area -- Srebrenica: Europe's Worst Massacre since the 2nd World War\\" but I reckon it has the same content. Srebrenica is really a microcosm of the larger crisis -- the Bosnian war -- as the other enclaves demonstrated. I don't profess to understand alot of the issues which surrounded and still continue to surround the discussion of the Balkan war today. There was obviously historical ethnic hatred among part of the population which spread to the rest through nationalistic propaganda combining wrongful portrayal of history and religion. There was the role of politicians, not only from the warring countries, but from the international community. But all these would not have been enough for the bloody war. In his recounting of the siege on Srebrenica, Rohde's book cleverly reconstructs the 10 day ordeal which the residents of Srebrenica had to endure when the world just sat and waited. Through eyewitness accounts, interviews and research, Rohde manages to piece together a chronology of what happened before and after the fall of the enclave. The honest, unsentimental and chilling account reveals that the international community had big ambitions, expected the peacekeepers to do wondrous things but their roles were not clearly defined and they were not given the support in terms of materials and weapons to protect themselves, much less the people. It all ended in a debacle of factions blaming one another for the failure to defend the enclave, when there was no will from the important players to being with. The whole Bosnian war and the case of Srebrenica showed how war is really used by politicians as a means to shore up their reputations and expand their influence. It begins with their approval, it starts with them igniting the fire, but when the time comes, the soldiers and fighters are the ones doing the dirty work and getting the blame at the end of it. The international community's inability or unwillingness to arrest Mladic and  Karadzic is clearly due to the fact that these were the same men they made agreements and deals with. These same men would be able to implicate them. The war was a war of manipulators and profiteers, but what am I saying, all wars serve to benefit the select few who \\"seize the opportunity\\". Rohde's revealing study is dark, disturbing and not for the faint-hearted. But it's a must read for those who wish to have a better understanding of the war in Bosnia, and have basis to ponder: what kind of humanity do we belong to which values the lives of people based on their power, wealth, race and religion?	2002-08-13
US	43395714	R28UOJ3VZ2H3P3	0575400072	209904162	Extreme Continental: Blowing Hot and Cold Through Central Asia	Books	3	7	19	N	N	Mediocre	Whittell's book has only one strength -- that of covering a special region in the world on which there is little information or unfortunately, little international interest. Whittell's book is purely descriptive and an account of the places he visited, how he got there and the people he met. It is sorely lacking in observation and whatever little observations he comes up with are trite and tacky. Whittell seems to have a lack of understanding of the people, or chooses to be so. One gets a feeling that this book will fit right into a larger anthology on Whittell's life rather an attempt to make readers learn more and understand a region and its people. Whittell's account is a mediocre and half-hearted attempt to delve into the deeper issues facing Central Asia -- identity in the period after Soviet occupation. Central Asia has always been an interesting region for me, from the culture, history, to the location and the people. I would love to visit there sometime. The book is good for some information on the vast region, but otherwise less than average.	2002-08-13
US	43395714	R3EZZLE0CB68BB	0312273207	96429552	In America: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting Narative	The best feature of Sontag's novel was the narative style which did not fail to change from Chapter to Chapter. Sometimes it was in an omniscient voice, and other times in the character's own first person narative, in writing and speech, which brought us into the minds and thoughts of the various fascinating Poles in the story. The plot of the story is ineresting in itself to a certain degree, but the idea of leaving Europe and forging a new life in America must have been re-done many times over esp. in the original immigrant literature. The irony of how the Europeans went to America to leave what they were used to behind, to escape the fetters, but seem to pursue the exact same fetters in America is present in Sontag's novel. It also brings out the other ironic element of wanting to do something different and unexpected, but falling into the mold in wanting to form an utopian community which was fashionable at the time. I enjoyed the flow of the storyline and the characterisation of Ryszard as the writer and Maryna as an actress, artists who without art will lose their self, and their use. The first Chapter of the book also leaves one wondering -- was that the author as a persona -- Sontag imagining her characters into play? As a writer would? To see their world, enter it, and develop it? Or was it a neutral observer preparing is for Maryna's plan to leave for America? Sontag's novel of immigration, America, Europe, art, religion and relationships is thought-provoking and a fascinating study. Highly enjoyable.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R2FE952ZLNKXK7	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Truly Original Escapade	I have always been interested in novels and non-fiction related to the Holocaust and I picked up Chabon's book last year when I got bored shopping. I am glad I did. The ideas discussed in Kavalier's book are complex -- the pain in one's loss of a home, of family, of love, loss of familiarity, dealing with the need for revenge, uprooting and moving somewhere to re-establish oneself, gradually finding love and redemption once again. These themese are all juxtaposed against the comic book industry which Kavalier works in, trying to exorcise the pain in himself. Mirroring his superhero creation, Kavalier has a knack of \\"escaping\\" from dangerous and tough situations, but he can't escape from the hurt and pain inside of himself. The most serious threat to the survival of the Escapist is himself. The America in Chabon's book reads like scenes from comic book and there are times when you wonder if you're reading Chabon's novel, or flipping through a comic magazine. The seamless melding of the two levels of reality can be confusing at times, but provides for a unique reading adventure. In Chabon's world, nothing ever really seems like it is. The poignancy of Kavalier's loss, his resignation and regret, how he gives up on life and love moves us, and we celebrate when Kavalier manages to escape from the pain in his past, his dreadful memories and through love, survives in the end and starts anew. Chabon's charming, irresistable, talented Kavalier is a true testament to the human spirit. Most creative and enjoyable.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R351K8XEETL6CN	0804115613	8343212	Fried Green Tomatoes at the Whistlestop Cafe	Books	3	8	20	N	N	Predictable & Sentimental	Fried Green Tomatoes was a readable book. I haven't seen the movie, but just thought I would start with a simple book after a reading \\"drought\\" (you dun wanna know). Though peopled with charming characters and interesting events, I can't help but feel that the entire book was too idealised and over-perfect. Perhaps that's what a writer is able to do, write about things out of the reality. Among the most unthinkable situations was for the Threadgoodes to be so open and receptive of the obviously homosexual relationship between their daughter and Ruth. For those times, they must have been very progressive, or just plain unrealistic. The presentation of black-white relations is oversimplistic and shallow, it is dealt with in a right vs. wrong way, which is hardly as easy when it comes to the real issue of race relations. In discussion of families, communities, life in the south, race relations, dealing with development and progress in a modern world as well as the change in values, Harper Lee's \\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\" is definitely superior in everyway to \\"Fried Green Tomatoes\\". OK read for an occasional laugh and the recipes given at the back.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R3BA4XJZA5558Y	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Dealing with Life with Humour	Hornby's book is readable but predictable and corny but does try to explore deeper meanings underneath the camouflage of irreverence. The themes of aging, loneliness, finding love and losing it have been done and re-done but Hornby manages to shape them all into an engaging and humorous novel. I especially liked the passages when Hornby's protaganist realises that the man he wants to be and the life he wants, is with someone he loves, something permanent, rather than transcient and ever-changing like that between the Thai lap-dancer and her bouncer boyfriend. Do we know what we prefer? Perhaps the difficulty in life is that we never really know or comprehend what we want out of it. If nothing else, Hornby's book gives us a glimpse of British culture, humour and the &quot;perils&quot; of middle-age.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R2FE561MX4LJXK	0679738711	945053348	Such a Long Journey	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Reminded me of India	&quot;Such a Long Journey&quot; is the story of a man, Gustad Noble, who is living in a time of great political and social change. He  not only has to deal with the changes in the landscape around him, but also the growth of his children which will transform the ambience of his home. Noble is a pillar of stability for those around him in the times of rapid change and transformation. His is the voice of reason, compassion, loyalty and decency in the mass of confusion surrounding him. Mistry recreates the vibrance, colours, energy and dynamism of India, part of the vastly populated subcontinent and introduces us to the sometimes incomprehensible cultural practices of this part of the world. Especially moving for me, was the relationship between Noble and his son, who has different ideas from his father on what he wants to pursue and what he is to become. Their reconciliation shows there will always be familial differences and tough decisions to make, but love between parent and child will persist. Mistry's magnificent and honest novel on how the dependable Noble deals with family, changing social and political situations, friendships and a little mystery is a gem and highly recommended.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	RCEZG2HS8W7K3	0684815893	329371550	Blue Spruce: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Pass it to your Friends -- I did	I bought &quot;Blue Spruce&quot; in a book sale. Never one for short stories which try to say too much in too short a passage, Long's collection is a fine balance and vastly different. Long's short stories introduce us to characters and lives in small-town America and explores the intricacies in human relations. A keen observer of how people interact with one another, the characters which Long has created reach out from the pages and move you, as if somewhere in your life, you have encountered these same people and have been privy to their thoughts and lives. It was such a good book I felt I had to pass it on and sent one copy to a good friend in America (it's one of those puzzles in modern life where a book printed in Massachusetts get sent back to him from the other end of the world in the post). I look forward to more of Long's offerings.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R2F2VACQ320NKV	0743225082	250905833	Man and Boy: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Endearing and Moving	I enjoyed Parson's \\"Man and Boy\\" immensely. It was not only readable, humorous, and witty but also insightful and wise. There has been a plethora of recent literature about middle aged men and in the middle of their relatively settled life, making a massive change in utter stupidity, risking everything, or making a change in their quest for happiness. Parson's novel far surpasses the rest. His story of a man confronted with the true meaning of life and his development and growth into a man and father to his little boy is sentimental but real. The passages written about father and son, family and relationships are moving and truthful and makes us pause to think if we have led our lives the way we wanted it to be. We never have our lives figured out and no matter how we seem to know what we want fully or how our lives progress, there is never a certainty. Parson makes us realise that things we might have valued and hold dear now might be trivial when we look back at them further down our lives. Makes you wanna swing your light saber around and be glad to be alive, but also have the strength to change your life radically to seek what you want out of it.	2002-07-30
US	43395714	R1MI7ZDIHDQPSC	0385425139	858664803	The Famished Road	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Poetic Journey	Ben Okri's creation has a very interesting premise, that of life as seen through the eyes of a spirit child, Azaro, who chooses to stay on in the world rather than return to the spirit realm, to bring happiness to the face of his mother. Simple everyday life of Nigerian peasants in a small town are described and in the passing weeks and months, relationships between characters are revealed and contribute to our understanding of a unique culture. Politics, the division between poor and rich, jealousies and envy are all part of the negative aspects of the real world which cause such heartache and suffering to people. On the other hand, the strength and resolution of the resilient characters such as the photographer and Azaro's parents, highlight the positive aspects of human nature and what makes the real world such a wonderful place and so attractive to the spirits. Azaro's world is one where the spirit realm merges with the real world and Okri's rendering of his story is magical and fascinating. However, repetitions to the story, though reminiscent of Homer's &quot;The Odyssey&quot;, takes away the focus of the story and makes it a little draggy. Imaginative and ambitious, &quot;The Famished Road&quot; remains a good read, however, for readers who constantly look for something out of the ordinary.	2001-09-19
US	43395714	R13EUV0WS1WED2	0684838648	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto: How Hillbillies, Hicks, and White Trash Became America's Scapegoats	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Enlightening &amp; Entertaining	I was always interested in why someone was designated a &quot;redneck&quot; or &quot;hillbilly&quot; and have tried asking many American friends but all they have been able to tell me are stuff I already know. Perhaps it is coz they come from middle class white families and have their own ideas and prejudices against this particular class of people. Goad's book really managed to give me the perspective from the other end of it...being a self-confessed &quot;redneck&quot; -- whatever that means. It's not like in Singapore we do not have prejudices of our own, but the &quot;redneck&quot; phenomenon is something very unique. Behind Goad's humour and sarcasm is alot of anger and bitterness on his part as he has been judged according to the social class he comes from, and his book is a winning retort against a nation of people who has put him down. Give me any middle or upper class git who can express his views in the way Goad has. Although I found Goad's book entertaining and humourous, it was also very sad when you think about it, the world seeing people for where they are from, for their colour, for their money or lack thereof, rather than what they are and we are all guilty of judging people wrongly. I guess the &quot;rednecks&quot; just have it worse. I still read redneck jokes when I come across them but I dun mind them anymore. Goad's well-researched book is a must for everyone who is interested in society and what moves and guides us. The sections on historical roots of the redneck/ white trash nonsense is also engaging. What is especially interesting is the fact that &quot;red neck&quot; is territorially specific and applies only to the American continent while &quot;white trash&quot; seems to be applicable to anywhere in the world with a lower class white population. Perhaps more could be expanded on the difference among the various terms used and the reasons behind them.	2001-08-20
US	43395714	RAU06A25LGLTM	0140099484	97859234	Selling Hitler	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Sit Back, Read, Learn &amp; LAUGH	A well-told and detailed account on the biggest publishing mess in the whole of history, Harris' &quot;Selling Hitler&quot; is hilarious, but has serious lessons to impart. Behind his account of how some of the biggest names in international publishing were conned into making the most enormous fools of themselves are some very chilling scenarios which we witness -- the callousness of the &quot;primitive&quot; Kujau, as well as the publishing world where money is above everything and the pursuit of profit is considered above journalistic integrity, the dishonesty and readiness of one such as Heidemann to believe in the authenticity of the diaries and the unrepentance of the reminiscing Nazis on the &quot;good old days&quot;. Most importantly, we see the prevalence of and influence of Hitler and the Nazis on the world so many decades after the demise of the Third Reich, and have to imagine what would have happened had the 'diaries' been used to rewrite history if proof that they were forgeries was not conclusive. Harris' book explains the hold Hitler continues to have on the generation which had undergone the war as well as those after it, and serves as a warning on how memory or delusion can be harmful. A fantastic read, this book should be brought back into publication and made accessible to more people. Highly recommended if you're interested in seeing how people make monkeys of themselves on the world stage.	2001-08-15
US	43395714	R16O4OHFNW5CCL	0140099484	97859234	Selling Hitler	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Sit Back, Read, Learn &amp; LAUGH	A well-told and detailed account on the biggest publishing mess in the whole of history, Harris' &quot;Selling Hitler&quot; is hilarious, but has serious lessons to impart. Behind his account of how some of the biggest names in international publishing were conned into making the most enormous fools of themselves are some very chilling scenarios which we witness -- the callousness of the &quot;primitive&quot; Kujau, as well as the publishing world where money is above everything and the pursuit of profit is considered above journalistic integrity, the dishonesty and readiness of one such as Heidemann to believe in the authenticity of the diaries and the unrepentance of the reminiscing Nazis on the &quot;good old days&quot;. Most importantly, we see the prevalence of and influence of Hitler and the Nazis on the world so many decades after the demise of the Third Reich, and have to imagine what would have happened had the 'diaries' been used to rewrite history if proof that they were forgeries was not conclusive. Harris' book explains the hold Hitler continues to have on the generation which had undergone the war as well as those after it, and serves as a warning on how memory or delusion can be harmful. A fantastic read, this book should be brought back into publication and made accessible to more people. Highly recommended if you're interested in seeing how people make monkeys of themselves on the world stage.	2001-08-15
US	43395714	R2HTVZXYGZ9USH	1570717257	250905833	Man and Boy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Engaging	Parson's book has quite a predictable premise about coping with single parenthood how it is a life changing experience for his protagonist, but Parson has a great gift of writing just the right words and sentences to express what we are feeling. This book is ultimately about love, recognising it, and what we are prepared to sacrifice for it. It is ultimately about the growth of a man and the strength of the family bond, esp. between that of father and son. I loved the characterisation of Harry's father, the tough combat hero who is gentle and caring to his family. However, I think the portrayal of the female characters was a little conventional -- Cyd, as the tough talking waitress, who is ultimately a romantic at heart, is too obvious. And Gina's abandonment of the family after Harry's infidelity was expected, but it was hard to believe that a couple so much in love did not try to get back together. All in all, I enjoyed the way Harry was protrayed, and the development in his life, as well as his bond with his father. Single parenthood is also dealt with credibly -- the part where Gina spoke about how being a mother at home should be the most respected occupation and yet is demeaned is moving. A great book to read for all those interested in novels on human dynamics and real issues, as well as for the romantics in us.	2001-08-08
US	43395714	R2PLJWALZI226G	1570717257	250905833	Man and Boy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Engaging	Parson's book has quite a predictable premise about coping with single parenthood how it is a life changing experience for his protagonist, but Parson has a great gift of writing just the right words and sentences to express what we are feeling. This book is ultimately about love, recognising it, and what we are prepared to sacrifice for it. It is ultimately about the growth of a man and the strength of the family bond, esp. between that of father and son. I loved the characterisation of Harry's father, the tough combat hero who is gentle and caring to his family. However, I think the portrayal of the female characters was a little conventional -- Cyd, as the tough talking waitress, who is ultimately a romantic at heart, is too obvious. And Gina's abandonment of the family after Harry's infidelity was expected, but it was hard to believe that a couple so much in love did not try to get back together. All in all, I enjoyed the way Harry was protrayed, and the development in his life, as well as his bond with his father. Single parenthood is also dealt with credibly -- the part where Gina spoke about how being a mother at home should be the most respected occupation and yet is demeaned is like WOW coz it's co true and so aptly put. A great book to read for all those interested in novels on human dynamics and real issues which confront us, as well as for the romantics in us.	2001-08-08
US	43395714	R1LQCNUADQU4Y9	0486217159	124519810	Uncle Silas	Books	3	4	13	N	N	Slow moving	I was pretty excited when I came across Le Fanu's book as I had read somewhere that he was one of the originators of gothic literature. Perhaps I am not used to the pace of Victorian novels, but Le Fanu's book was too draggy for me. I am not even sure it was very suspenseful at all. Too many minor characters also spolit the book for me -- was Captain Oakley only in the novel to show off the naivety of Maud? The mystery of Uncle Silas wasn't very engaging and I was just dying to get to the end of the novel just so I could move on to other things. The ending of the book is also predictable, and Uncle Silas basically lived up to his horrible reputation.	2001-08-08
US	43395714	RXEE06P33CD48	0841909105	42334197	The Destruction of the European Jews (Student One Volume Edition)	Books	5	12	24	N	N	Good Foundation for Readers	In my honours year, I chose to write a thesis on the Holocaust, but was unsure which area I should focus on, or base my thesis on. One of the first books I was told to read was Raul Hilberg's &quot;Destruction of the Holocaust&quot;. Though the one I read was the condensed version and therefore lacked some of the details of the expanded version, it was a good read and gave me alot of different angles of looking at the Holocaust. Hilberg's book is definitely recommended for someone who is interested in the Holocaust and wants to know more about it, as his book offers alot of other references for students and casual readers alike. I shall be looking into reading the 3 volume version soon. Hilberg's book is the definitive account of the Holocaust as it beings together many aspects of the tragedy. Well written and readable, Hilberg's book will remain an accessible text to turn to for information on the Holocaust.	2001-07-28
US	43395714	RXENMQLHPO712	1568493371	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Leaves you Wondering	Looking at the leadership of the Nazi Party, one sees that there are many who do not fit into the Nazi definition of a perfect Germanic specimen. None of them seem to be a perfect Aryan who is tall, blonde, with blue eyes, except Heydrich. Hitler and Heydrich was suspected of having Jewish blood, Himmler was physically weak, Goering belonged to an upper class in society and Goebbels had a club foot. Speer is also an anomaly. When one thinks of pure evil, one forgets about him, as he seems so ordinary, just another one of those workers, and his memoirs seem to bring out an intellectual with fine feelings and sympathies. He did not directly contribute to the Holocaust, but he did make the Nazi Party strong and indirectly helped to make the destruction of the Jews a &quot;success&quot;. Speer is a highly curious personality. In reading his memoir, you see him not as a Nazi, but as an architect. In fact his whole book seems to be talking about his architectural ambitions and one gets the sense that the Nazi Party and its leaders are side shows in his story. Hitler and Speer offer an interesting juxtaposition -- the former tries to deal with his failed architectural ambitions by wielding power in another way, and in the process wreaking vengeance. Speer, however, manages to attain his ambitions as far as his work is concerned, but he pays a high price with his morality. After reading his memoir, Speer still strikes one as a complex person and the only knowledge we have of him remains superficial. It gives readers alot to think about as it is no longer possible to assume that all Nazi leaders are &quot;evil&quot; in every sense of the word. Instead, they are ordinary people who are willing to do anything to attain their ambitions. And perhaps that is more chilling than evil itself.	2001-07-28
US	43395714	R15BUQ2O9POYNX	0805210601	979628750	The Sunflower: On the Possibilities and Limits of Forgiveness (Newly Expanded Paperback Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Moving &amp; Thought-provoking	Wiesenthal's book on the extent of forgiveness is one of the treasures in Holocaust literature. Writing on the Holocaust has often been very generic -- autobiographical, psychological or thematic -- but Wiesenthal's book brings together these different methods of writing and leaves us with a masterpiece that stirs us emotionally and intellectually. Oftentimes, Holocaust writing appeals to our emotions, rather than our rationality. In fact when writers have tried to look into the psyche of the perpetrators and tried to explain rationally just what drives one to commit such crimes against humanity, they have been accused of siding with the perpetrators in trying to understand them. Others argue that the victims and survivors of the Holocaust should be the focus of anything written on the Holocaust, and that focusing on perpetrators is a negation and diminishing of the victims' suffering. I do not agree with this, and I think a fuller understanding (if it is possible to comprehend such inhuman activity) of the events that happened cannot be achieved without looking at both groups of people involved. Wiesenthal's book has this balance, exploring both the psyche of the perpetrator, an SS man, as well as the thoughts running through the head of the victim, a concentration camp inmate. Can we forgive such crimes which have been perpetrated on our people? And is an individual even in a position to forgive on behalf of everyone? If we do not, are we as bad as the perpetrators themselves? &quot;The Sunflower&quot; asks us questions which we have to confront in our lives. It doesn't just describe a situation and give an answer to it. Instead it leaves us to make our own value judgements about the questions we face, and in doing so, it brings out the prevalent dilemmas in the human condition. A classic and must read for anyone trying to figure out humanity.	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R3C72VFRF71Y4C	0571167926	853417614	Vampyres: Lord Byron to Count Dracula	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Vampyres Unite!!	An interesting tracing of the historical and chronological development of the vampire in literature. It gives us an idea of Stoker's precedents and also his real place in the time line of vampire literature. Some extracts I found horribly funny, but an entertaining and informative read nonetheless. Good foundation for anyone interested in Gothic literature on anything on vampires.	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R14VGKUHQPYPJ3	0094741700	199642651	In Hitler's Shadow : An Israeli's Journey Inside Germany's Neo-Nazi Movement (History and Politics)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Average	Svoray's book has an interesting concept of an Israeli man taking up the challenge and going into the midst of the Neo-Nazism movement in Germany, putting his life in danger. However, his book does not really have much depth. It is more descriptive than anything else, and doesn't explore what is more importannt -- the reason why Nazism has been able to flourish even after the horrors of the Holocaust have been revealed. The characters he meets are also unreal, there's the extreme of the totally anti-Nazi students, and the other extreme, the right-wing haters of diversity and anything un-German. After awhile, everyone you encounter in the book -- even the people in Yad Vashem -- come off as character types, rather than real people. Svoray also comes across as self-congratulatory, like, WOW, I HAVE DONE SUCH A BIG THING, I SHOULD BE HAILED AS A HERO. If revealing Neo-Nazism and its pervasiveness in present Germany is his purpose, then perhaps he should cut the posturing. An OK book for superficial facts, but other books would have to be consulted on deeper significance behind the German psyche, the sense of dislocation after reunitfication (some say annexation) and the success of the Neo-Nazi movement.	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R32OB9HHVDYN82	0140433627	655343360	Frankenstein: Or the Modern Prometheus	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Will the Real Frankenstein Please Stand Up?	Mary Shelley's &quot;Frankenstein&quot; has the odd honour of having an unnamed monster which gets confused with the protagonist (afterall everyone calls the monster FRANKENSTEIN when he is unnamed), but the merging of identities and names is at the heart of this classic. Questions about creation, the limits of human knowledge and actions are explored, as well as what is human and what is not. Shelley's protagonist Frankenstein slowly reveals the harsh and cruel side of himself as the novel progresses, while the monster he creates takes on more human traits expressed in his guilt at the murder of the child, and his desire for a companion to ease his lonely days. At the end of the novel, it appears that the roles have reversed. Frankenstein's personality takes on a more &quot;monstrous&quot; aspect while the monster gradually attains the readers' sympathy. The monster and the human therefore switch positions and we have to question and relook what we define as &quot;human&quot; or otherwise. The story on intertwined fates and dependence reaches a tragic end as the release for both monster and creator is possible only through death.	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R144U2YHH8D77K	0140434062	821153252	Dracula (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Super-duper, Spooky Ride!!	Bram Stoker's &quot;DRACULA&quot; is definitely THE GOTHIC NOVEL. I read Stoker's novel for a course on Gothic Literature and still think it is one of the best books I have ever read. So the rambling by Renfield was a little over-wrought and confusing and sort of slowed the story down a bit, so Mina's pontifications and &quot;let's all love one another&quot; ... could get a bit out of hand and annoying (though it is set in Victorian times, what do we expect??), BUT Stoker's book has alot of wonderful characters, suspense and tension to keep the reader going. I was reading it late at night in my room and when the curtains were blowing in my room, it made a sound which made me fear a vampiric bat was lying in wait of me outside, waiting for me to invite him in....shudder....A super book on alternative family/ blood ties, about good vs. evil, about love and lust, about the mysterious eastern European landscape and Vlad the Impaler, this romantic (in the old sense) book is a must read for all. ....	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R1YZ1NNDDCIH8G	0233988580	908790915	Back Trouble	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Funny &amp; Engaging	Chamber's book on the life of a middle aged man trying to find his way and having the world fall apart on him in the form of back trouble is pretty predictable and doesn't have much in terms of storyline and content. It is however saved by her wonderful sense of humour which keeps you laughing from start to finish. When the protagonist ends up with the woman he loves and ends the novel feeling happy, we actually feel happy along with him and wanna clap him on his back. Entertaining stuff.	2001-07-24
US	43395714	R16JICDO54KRP5	042516618X	908406684	The Rescue of Memory	Books	2	2	5	N	N	YAWN	Sucher's book purports to talk of a woman's coming of age and how her ... origins and the family's experiences in the Holocaust contributes to her development. However, the book does not relate her growing up with experiences of being in a family still trying to come to terms and accept what happened in WWII. The Holocaust does not in anyway seem to play a contributing factor in the protaganist's growth. Instead, it details growing up pangs which is nothing different or significant from a person in any other ethnic or cultural group. Ursula Hegi is a good person to read on what it was like to grow up German in the aftermath of war. I was hoping Sucher would be a corresponding ... author who could tell the other side of the story, but the book was a major disappointment. Boring, predictable, and doesn't live up to its promise.	2001-07-23
US	43395714	R3NY8EM9ZV25AS	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Let's Relook Ourselves in the Mirror	Proulx's novel on people and life in Newfoundland has one of the best developed characters in all of fiction. Quoyle, &quot;blessed&quot; with a strange name, bad physical appearance and low self-esteem finds happiness and ultimately, learns to appreciate and be at peace with himself. A moving novel, Proulx charts the passage of a man who who overcomes a bad family history and nasty experiences with relationships, growing into someone more confident and able to see elements he was blind to (or made blind to) in the past. The whole idea of home as tied to a person is explored and Quoyle's journey back to his ancestral home and town is a confrontation of the unpleasantness of the past and a courage to deal with these ghosts. Quoyle's love for his children and his relationship with a woman in the small town (I forget her name) is nicely written and we get the idea that though Quoyle is portrayed as someone who is ordinary and simple, he is special in his own way. One of my favourite scenes in the book is when he dresses infront of the mirror after a bath and learns to look at himself in a different way, realising that the physical qualities he previously deemed as negative are positive when seen in another light. Proulx's novel teaches us about surface and inner beauty, about perception, how there're two sides to every coin. She teaches us to appreciate our &quot;ordinariness&quot; and find the unique in it. In doing so, we are made to relook at the people and things around us and learn to appreciate what we have overlooked previously. Her portrayal of the life and activities of Newfoundland is also an interesting insight into a region which seems pure and untouched. Honest, simple and unsentimental, Proulx's novel is a wonderful peice of literature and will stay with readers for a long time.	2001-07-23
US	43395714	R3JH1HHY4YITWQ	042516618X	908406684	The Rescue of Memory	Books	2	0	4	N	N	YAWN	Sucher's book purports to talk of a woman's coming of age and how her Jewish origins and the family's experiences in the Holocaust contributes to her development. However, the book does not relate her growing up with experiences of being in a family still trying to come to terms and accept what happened in WWII. The Holocaust does not in anyway seem to play a contributing factor in the protaganist's growth. Instead, it details growing up pangs which is nothing different or significant from a person in any other ethnic or cultural group. Ursula Hegi is a good person to read on what it was like to grow up German in the aftermath of war. I was hoping Sucher would be a corresponding Jewish author who could tell the other side of the story, but the book was a major disappointment. Boring, predictable, and doesn't live up to its promise.	2001-07-23
US	43395714	R2JZZK5RP8YTTX	0517703475	958892093	The Reason Why: An Anthology of the Murderous Mind	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Compilation of Murderous Thoughts	Rendell's book brings together some of the most famous writings which delve into the murderer's mind -- whether it's murder for gain, murder for revenge or murder for murder's sake. Psychological processes are by definition complicated and multi-faceted, more so in what is required mentally in the act of taking another's life. It is a good reference for readers who wanna know more about what drives people to commit the ultimate sin. They should keep in mind though, that the majority of extracts are fiction, but many are so well written and expressed that it almost becomes reality for the reader. Especially memorable was the entry on a husband's murdering of the postman for being &quot;guilty&quot; of bringing love letters from her wife's lover, and 2 exerpts about people who kill out of loneliness and for companionship. At the back of that is the need to arrest the moment, to stop time from moving. At times chilling, but more oftentimes tragic and poignant, it makes one think of life, and how one values it, or not at all. Life might be the sacred spring for most, but is definitely dispensable and callously treated by others. Only gripe I have about the book is that Rendell doesn't explain enough about the texts selected. Other than putting in sporadic commentaries, there isn't much background about the play or novel where she gets the extracts from. Some exerpts really left me scratching my head, wondering what the characters were going on about. That is a big minus, and a tad sloppy. Other that, worth a read, for some really moving passages, and for referral to the texts mentioned.	2001-07-23
US	43395714	RLRZU6Q0U7Q1R	0684819031	256559702	Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and the Failure of the West	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Limp	David Rieff's book is one of many I have read on the Balkan conflict in the 1990s and I must say I was pretty disappointed with it. The book reads like an extended news report -- dry, factual and extremely boring. There wasn't much personal interpretation of the events, or sadly, anything new to say. The worst thing about Rieff's book I can think of is that it does nothing for one who knows zero about the war. A background of the conflict was not given, and he just went straight into talking about the war itself and the crimes on all sides. Mind-boggling and unfriendly.	2001-07-23
US	43395714	R1KWRZ0EP1A0J0	0375701613	113689382	The White Castle: A Novel	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Imaginative	The first book by Pamuk I read was &quot;The New Life&quot; and I have to say that he has a gift of coming up with the most imaginative and magical of storylines. &quot;The White Castle&quot; deals with the (mis)understandings between East and West, between the different religions, cultures, belief systems and perceptions. Turkey, by virtue of its geographical position in the world, has to deal with the question of IDENTITY on a daily basis and perhaps only such a country can produce writers like Pamuk and stories such as his. This novel on the exchange of values, opinions, and ultimately identity is well-written, absorbing and strangely disturbing. Peopled with fascinating characters and a plot which culminates in a chilling ending, Pamuk's offering is an unforgettable piece of literature.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	RGAEVE81GGK2E	0385413726	244095611	From Beirut to Jerusalem	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Complexities explained	I did not know much about the Mid East conflict till I picked up this book. Ignorantly, I assumed that the crux of the matter was the Israeli-Palestinian conflict which had arisen after the mass migration of Jews to Jerusalem after WWII and the founding of a modern Jewish state in 1948. Of course this is an important contribution to the problems in the Mid East, but Friedman's book brought out the other players in the conflict and how the  underlying (though not all that subtle sometimes) manipulation of the other nations in the region were crucial in aggravating an already troublesome political and religious situation. I was hooked to the book from page one and the introduction and historical background Friedman gives to the Mid East and the continual unresolved conflict provides ignoramuses like myself a good foundation from which to better comprehend Mid Eastern politics and culture. I wouldn't say I am an expert on Mid East now, but Friedman's book has definitely given me some basic knowledge and I can now look more closely and explore deeper into subjects which interest me in the Mid East. Informative, and engaging, Friedman's book is required reading for anyone interested in the complexities of the Middle East.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R2U97R3UR02T2G	0374221294	672142264	The New Life	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting Journey	As a quote from Joseph Cambell says: \\"We must be willing to get rid of the life we've planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us.\\" The concept of Pamuk's book is indeed refreshing, and he has quite a talent of making people feel uncomfortable. Makes one come up with alot of What-ifs, alot of questions about Life, and readers will find it hard not to identify to some extent with the protagonist and question our own reactions to his situation, and THE BOOK that changes his life. This novel takes alot of re-reading and thinking (but not too much) to get at the truth -- but perhaps truth is what we make of it, truth is what directly speaks to each individual. Pamuk's writing style is rather reminiscent of Yashar Kemal at some parts and he is definitely a writer who contributes significantly to Turkish literature, dealing with the dilemmas and issues that a Turk has to face in a modern nation trying to find its place, but also trying to seek answers for humanity in general. Perplexing at parts when the many spheres of fantasy and reality merge, but the effort is worth it.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	RPU7X1TOFF435	1883642876	526701413	Open Lands : Travels Through Russia's Once Forbidden Places	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Take me There!	A keen reader of travelogues, I borrowed a copy of Taplin's book some years ago from the library and after reading it, I JUST HAD TO GET MY OWN!! I am often wary when picking up books written by Westerners on a country which is their traditional &quot;nemesis&quot;, but Taplin does a great job in describing his journey through lesser-known parts of Russia. His writing is sensitive, but not over-sentimental. In addition to the many memorable people he meets on his journey, his book is filled with lovely black &amp; white pictures at the beginning of each chapter, which allows us a tiny view into the areas he is describing before we finally get a chance to go there (can hardly wait!). A book about the new Russia, the hopes and strengths of her resilient people, &quot;Open Lands&quot; is engaging, moving and unforgettable. See you in Vladivostok! <br />(*Still am surprised Singapore came up twice in the book!)	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R2PK7B3H9LMCAK	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wild, Wild West	&quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; is probably one of the longest books I have ever read, but it doesn't feel like it when you're actually reading it coz the book sucks you into its plot turns, landscape, and its mesmerising characters. This is a super book on the wild West, a wonderful, swashbuckling effort with battles between heroes and villains, the Indians and the Whites, the men and the women, and the good and bad....EXCEPT, there's no real good and bad. McMurtry shines in his ability to bring out the depravity and meanness of his characters, but also in highlighting their redeeming qualities, and their decency. An expert in character development, it is hard not to feel strongly for the wonderful and fascinating characters that McMurtry introduces us to -- I cried a whole bucketful when the black guy died (I forget the name). This is definitely recommended for anyone interested in books about cowboys and also for people who are not, coz they are BOUND to be hooked after this treat. Great work by McMurtry, it's just a shame the other installments in the series never manage to live up to the high standard achieved by this one.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R2ASEAAHZ65P7Q	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wild, Wild West	&quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; is probably one of the longest books I have ever read, but it doesn't feel like it when you're actually reading it coz the book sucks you into its plot turns, landscape, and its mesmerising characters. This is a super book on the wild West, a wonderful, swashbuckling effort with battles between heroes and villains, the Indians and the Whites, the men and the women, and the good and bad....EXCEPT, there's no real good and bad. McMurtry shines in his ability to bring out the depravity and meanness of his characters, but also in highlighting their redeeming qualities, and their decency. An expert in character development, it is hard not to feel strongly for the wonderful and fascinating characters that McMurtry introduces us to -- I cried a whole bucketful when the black guy died (I forget the name). This is definitely recommended for anyone interested in books about cowboys and also for people who are not, coz they are BOUND to be hooked after this treat. Great work by McMurtry, it's just a shame the other installments in the series never manage to match this high standard.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R3LFIZJ2LLWXDG	1558591591	149941780	Harem: The World Behind the Veil	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Great Pictures	Croutier's book has some of the loveliest paintings on Harem life, ever. It also tries to deal with different areas of Harem life during the Ottoman Empire, and I especially appreciated the part about the black eunuchs and how the Harem ladies had to cope with the fall of the Empire and return to their families or learn to find their own living. However, I do agree that it was a little superficial and the subject matter should have been explored in greater depth. However, Croutier's book remains a good insight into a part of Ottoman history that was usually shut out from the rest of the world. Interesting, also is that modern Turkey's entire image rests on the fact that it's a country for &quot;Turks&quot; -- whatever that means. How TURKISH is a nation really, when their own rulers in the past mated with Europeans and Westerners....another one of the dilemmas of this wonderful nation. A good book to start off beginners interested in Turkish history and culture as a whole. Croutier does justice to a subject that's prone to sensationalism and exoticism.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R1PHD1C3YTAHUS	0671753843	579606305	Horseman, Pass By	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Bittersweet	Next to &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;, &quot;Horseman, Pass by&quot; is another book by McMurtry I truly enjoyed. Engrossing and poignant, it tells of the growing pains of a teenager in a small town and his need to find his own path in life and make his own decisions. In so doing, he has to face up to his family ties, his responsibilities, his fascination with a character who is less than decent, and ultimately, himself. This quiet, honest, and sensitive coming-of-age novel is a contrast from the dramatic &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;, but proves to be just as enduring.	2001-07-18
US	43395714	R3LON14GKS309S	0684846888	109382968	Castles Burning: A Childs Life in War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Moving &amp; Humorous	When I picked up &quot;Castles Burning&quot;, I thought at the back of my mind, &quot;OK another book on the war, another book on suffering, let's see how good this is&quot;. It is sad, but true, that coz of the proliferation of literature on the Second World War and the Holocaust, one gets &quot;immune&quot; to the immensity of depravity and suffering in that period of time, when paradoxically, it is meant to make one more aware and more empathetic to the experiences of that time. Magda's book was special. Not only is it written through the eyes of a little girl, it shows the suffering of ALL who have been involved in the war, and tells us that with immediate deprivation and starvation facing you, there just is no time or energy left to think of others' sufferings, though theirs is comparably more serious and threatening. It sounds bad, but that is the truth, that faced with personal suffering, it is often impossible to bother about what other are facing. Magda's growing maturity and her relationship with her brother is well-told. His growth into manhood and her feeling of being left behind is also something all of us would have felt at one point in our lives. Magda's voice is powerful, angry and poignant, esp. when she speaks of her father who abandoned the family before the war and fails to see the wrong in it. Her strength comes through in her desire to survive and her rejection of her father we wonder if we would have come out as well if we had been placed in the same situation. One of the best memoirs of the war years. Readable and touching, Magda's is a voice that will stay with us for a long time.	2001-07-17
US	43395714	RAPD4J4J6I2QW	0684855364	181423734	A SONG OF STONE: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Disturbing....	I haven't read any of Iain Banks' novels before I picked up &quot;A Song of Stone&quot; so I can't honestly say if it is his usual standard or if it's better or worse than his other works. Reading some of the other reviews on here, however, I do agree that he has a gift of making people feel uncomfortable. Abel's reflections on violence and incest was troubling to say the least. I thought the story slow-moving and felt like I was going around in the same circle the whole time, but perhaps that was Banks' intention to create a dismal atmosphere where one's trapped, and there's no escape except through death (for us, thankfully, the completion of the novel would suffice!) The underlying sexual tension with the female lieutenant was interestingly dealt with, however, and that was probably the only part of the novel where there was visible progress. I should need to read more of Banks' work to decide if I like him or not....if I have the desire to sink into depression again.....	2001-07-17
US	43395714	R7IX3YXONY730	0515122564	963249302	The Echo	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Huh?	At the end of reading Minette Walter's &quot;The Echo&quot;, I was asking myself, &quot;That's it?&quot;. It didn't really strike me as a real mystery and the plot was boring. The thing i enjoyed about the novel, though, was the narrative style -- using exerpts from newspapers and letters to keep the story going. Narratives within a narrative is an old form of story-telling, and it was refreshing to see it in a modern novel. Another thing that managed to lift the book from its drabness was the triangular relationship between Michael, Terry and the dead Billy. Predictable as Terry's relationship with Michael turned out to be, it gave an interesting dimension to the book. The mirroring in thoughts between Michael and Billy, as well as both their roles as a father to Terry was well though-out. Other than these moments of genius, the novel was mediocre.	2001-07-17
US	43395714	R9D6PJE1EJ9GO	0684825554	509674696	How Green Was My Valley	Books	3	11	24	N	N	Draggy	&quot;How Green was My Valley&quot; was a little over-sentimental and weepy, but served as an interesting insight into Welsh culture, society, and history. It deals with how modernisation threatens and annihilates traditional practices and occupation, which is relevant to all periods in history as we ask what we have to give up to progress. A tad depressing and overwrought, but sensitive account of a man's coming-of-age and the idea that Wales is a &quot;nation of song&quot; does make me wanna visit sometime.	2001-07-17
US	43395714	R1UMWGPN09MVC9	0679763899	56027442	Love Thy Neighbor: A Story of War	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Great Work	In the aftermath of the war in the Balkans, it became quite a &quot;fashion&quot; to be reading about the Bosnian war and it seemed like alot of people started writing about the history, politics and cultural background of an area that was largely neglected before. Peter Maass' book could easily have been another telling from a Western journalist's/ politician's mistaken perpective, where they accuse the Yugoslav -- Muslims, Serbs, Croats and everyone of having been fighting and killing each other from day one. Instead, he has a produced one of the best personal accounts of the Bosnian conflict. Rather than confronting the issue in a me vs. them scenario, Maass crosses the line and tries to identify with them, the victims of conflict, and an indifferent international community. Maass sets a background for readers who have zero knowledge on the war or countries involved and his strong, frustrated, bitter and angry voice moves readers to the suffering that went on in the region known as the Powder Keg. A phenomenal book on a complex situation, Maass has done justice to the countless nameless people who were affected by the war by bringing their story to the surface and telling the truth as he saw and experienced it.	2001-07-17
US	43395714	R10WEKF31ZTP0B	0684846888	109382968	Castles Burning: A Childs Life in War	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Moving &amp; Humorous	When I picked up &quot;Castles Burning&quot;, I thought at the back of my mind, &quot;OK another book on the war, another book on suffering, let's see how good this is&quot;. It is sad, but true, that coz of the proliferation of literature on the Second World War and the Holocaust, one gets &quot;immune&quot; to the immensity of depravity and suffering in that period of time, when paradoxically, it is meant to make one more aware and more empathetic to the experiences of that time. Magda's book was special. Not only is it written through the eyes of a little girl, it shows the suffering of ALL who have been involved in the war, and tells us that with immediate deprivation and starvation facing you, there just is no time or energy left to think of others' sufferings, though theirs is comparably more serious and threatening. It sounds bad, but that is the truth, that faced with personal suffering, it is often impossible to bother about what others are facing. Magda's growing maturity and her relationship with her brother is well-told. His growth into manhood and her feeling of being left behind is also something all of us would have felt at one point in our lives. Magda's voice is powerful, angry and poignant, esp. when she speaks of her father who abandoned the family before the war and fails to see the wrong in it. Her strength comes through in her desire to survive and her rejection of her father and we wonder if we would have come out as well if we had been placed in the same situation. One of the best memoirs of the war years. Readable and touching, Magda's is a voice which will remain with us for a long time.	2001-07-17
US	43395714	R2S5ITZUAKTRL0	0375702938	47655853	The Chimney Sweeper's Boy: A Novel (Random House Large Print)	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Predictable	This is the first book I have read of Vine and was quite enthusiastic about the book as I was told of her reputation as a mystery writer. The book started off ok, but soon got to be predictable and corny. I saw where the plot was moving from the first third of the book. Somehow, I was expecting a twist at the end, but it never came. What I found interesting was the quotations from Gerald Candless' novels at the start of each chapter -- his books would have been a wonderful read. I still refuse to believe that someone so sensitive, loving and insightful about the human condition as John Ryan could have morphed into a monster like Gerald Candless. Sure, he was tormented and sure he was homosexual, but that doesn't mean he has to dislike his wife to the extent that he treats her like dirt! I mean, that's ridiculous. I find that behaviour hard to imagine from someone who seems to have such a kind and open heart with his own family. Another thing I didn't agree with was how Ursula could have been so switched off even after Sarah had told her that her husband changed his identity. I mean wouldn't she be more interested in finding out why he did that so that she would better understand his treatment of her? ...  I have read reviews of Vine's books where it was said that there was a lack of pleasant and likable characters and I have to say &quot;The Chimney Sweeper's Boy&quot; is no exception. Ursula is a character we can sympathise with and she has inward strength but I can't understand how she could have put up with Gerald's torment. Sarah and Hope are one-dimensional, esp. the latter and it is a puzzle how they have failed to witness the ill treatment of their mother. Gerald's character is the only one which is interesting, but I still can't comprehend the vast change in his personality. Homosexuality was probably a much more sensitive issue than it is nowadays, but to seriously cause all the unhappiness for Gerald is doubtful. I hope Vine's other works live up to her name.	2001-07-16
US	43395714	R1ZIO39JX1CB87	0805053034	435712613	Father and Son	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Thin Line between Love and Hate	When I started reading &quot;Father and Son&quot; I wasn't too used to the pace of the novel and was dying for things to pick up and progress. But i guess crucial to Brown's writing is the reconstruction of the surroundings and environment of his characters. Setting plays a big role in this novel and you get an idea of a small town where nothing is really happening except crimes being committed and laws being broken. There is a deep sense of time just passing meaninglessly amid frustration, anger, impatience, and a general sense of boredom and dread. Set against this drab background, however, the characters Brown has created are powerful and moving. We see not just one layer of their characters, but the many other layers and complications beneath the surface, and how alot of their lives have been shaped by events beyond their control, of flukes which seem to have arisen due to rotten luck. Some of their trials mirror our own. From Virgil, we learn that love for a family member never dies no matter what happens. From Jewel, we learn the importance of recognising when it is time to let go and move on, and to have the strength to see it through. From Mary, we learn that sacrifices form part and parcel of true love. From Bobby, we learn decency and understanding. And from Glen, fascinating and unforgettable character that he is, we learn the angst of love turned to hate, the destructive capacity of mankind, and the senselessness of criminal behaviour. The novel highlights the depths humankind can sink to, in the murders committed by Glen and others, but it also uplifts us with a sense of hope when we see the role David is able to play as a link to the disparate members of 3 families. Honest, sincere and moving, I shall look forward to Brown's other works.	2001-07-10
US	43395714	R1TRVMSRV1KMJB	0684829975	318753432	The Vision of Emma Blau	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Maze.....	I read this book after reading &quot;Stones from the River&quot; and was a little disappointed. Hegi is a wonderful storyteller and she has a gift of writing poetically sensible sentences which strike at your heart and make you see things in her characters which you recognise in yourself. However, I can't help but feel that this was an over-ambitious work. The parts where it deals with Stefan Blau's attempt to adapt to life in America as an immigrant are not well explored, and when the novel unfolds, the introduction of the various characters becomes a tad confusing and you get the feeling that you're reading alot more about characters you don't care about only because they fall into the correct time frame. I would rather she had concentrated on characters from the first and second generation, as their lives were neglected towards the last third of the novel, leaving a sense of dissatisfaction in the reader. The writing of &quot;Stones of the River&quot; was much more in-depth and the fact that the story was seen through the eyes of a main protagonist managed to give the novel a degree of centrality which was severely lacking in &quot;The Vision of Emma Blau&quot;. At the end of the novel, there is a sense that you have read everything, but have escaped the pertinent points. This was an average novel, but its resources, setting, people and themes could have been worked into something much more powerful. I still look forward to Hegi's other offerings.	2001-07-09
US	43395714	R268HI4N0ODG0T	0684830302	800025990	In The Memory of the Forest: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Life &amp; Remembrance	This is a beautifully written book with unforgettable characters and an unforgettable setting, in post-communist Poland. The feel of the novel is in fact much more ancient than it was meant to be but that perhaps proves the prevalence of the past in our present and future, and why this is important and inescapable. Powers' novel on revelation and discovery and guilt is explored not only on the macro level -- that of the village, but also on an individual level. The weaving of the storyline and interactions of the different strands and ideas in the novel is intoxicating. I couldn't put down the book nor leave the world of this village which has to embark on a trip of self-examination, and eventually, recovery. It is refreshing that the holocaust is dealt with in non-fiction, and this novel is similar to &quot;Stones from the River&quot; though more superior. Poignant, moving and unforgettable.	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R1QL77K3FOZTJR	068484477X	709347155	Stones from the River	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Poignant and Memorable	I read this book after reading Ursula Hegi's &quot;Tearing the Silence&quot; which referred to it many times in the introduction. I found it highly readable and moving. The mood created is at once mystical and potent and the book has many well-drawn characters. Trudi, herself, of course, and my favourites -- her father (I forget the name now) and the unknown benefactor -- all of them contribute to the uplifting of the story and highlight the strength and generosity in the human condition amidst a very cruel world of senseless destruction. What is refreshing is the ability to discuss the very sensitive topic of the holocaust using the novel form and Hegi should be congratulated for the depth of exploration she put into the characters and the juxtaposition between personal trials and deprivation against the larger difficulties and crimes of the age. Some parts of the story are corny and predictable, but the book as a whole is good, as Hegi has masterfully weaved the lives of her characters with our own. I should be picking up &quot;Floating in my Mother's Palm&quot; soon to give myself a more rounded and complete picture of the story of Burghof.	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R119HK4XRF2685	0813327024	95567579	Am I A Murderer?: Testament Of A Jewish Ghetto Policeman	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Important Document	When I read Perechodnik's book years ago, I was profoundly moved by the experiences of the writer in the war years. Having just travelled to Germany and seen some concentration camps, I started reading avidly on the Holocaust and the experiences of survivors and perpetrators. The poignant title of the book was the thing that caught my eye and it remains one of the most startling and powerful accounts of the evil that took place in WWII. It is amazing that this first-hand account survived and I wish it was as highly circulated and read as Anne Frank's diary. Perechodnik's account lets us into the sacrifces one has to make in extreme situations and the guilt he feels throughout the war for abandoning his wife and kid entreats us. A harrowing experience. Let us never forget the humanity in us.	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R3QIWTJKIH11XJ	0452279976	197544717	The Falling Boy: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I am falling....	I picked up this book after reading Long's collection of stories &quot;Blue Spruce&quot; and feel sure I am going to be reading his other works as well. Long's story gives us an insight into smalltown America, totally different from what we see in Hollywood movies and such. It's simple and honest and explores the basic and fundamental intricacies in human relationships. I personally find the protrayal of the Stavros sisters interesting as one can see the mirror and similarities in the characteristics of the four of them. Although the main focus of the novel was on Mark and his marriage to Olivia, I think more enduring was the flashbacks of Nick's marriage to his long-dead wife, Grace. That is a bond that overcomes differences, difficulties, temptations and time -- gathering all the strands of the novel together and thereby providing a centre for the story. I would have liked to have the WHOLE TRUTH about Celia and Linny, Olivia and Linny, and all the other little mysteries peppered throughout in the novel, but that would just have detracted from the novel's purpose and might just have reduced it as a whole. I enjoyed this book which spoke to my heart and by the way, isn't Davey just adorable?	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R21XACIOZTUO6K	0684830795	351794557	The Thought Gang	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Zonked	What can i say? Quite a caper, quite an adventure, and quite a dictionary of Zs at the back. Fischer's novel is a riot and as irreverent and confusing as philosophers go. If nothing, take it as a new lesson in vocabulary.	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R2UQKH3FXLMIC0	0743200985	223960215	Tis : A Memoir	Books	3	0	0	N	N	'Tis so	I didn't actually read Angela's Ashes though I watched the movie (it was good too -- surprising for an adaptation, I guess) and only came about 'Tis coz it was given to me free. A good read, humourous, and witty, though nothing very spectacular. I SHOULD probably have read the first instalment first!! Parts on the army seemed to be reminiscent of Forrest Gump or something of the sort (I know they don't fall in the same category). As far as it being a personal memoir, there is really not much one can say regarding content, but the sense of resolution at the end moved me. I particularly liked the coffin-seagull joke of McCourt.	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R1TXOU36HKQVRC	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great stuff!!	This was the first book by Robert Harris I picked up and I am glad i did coz Archangel proved to be rather disappointing compared to this masterpiece. Robert Harris' reconstruction of Nazi Germany is realistic and spinechilling, having put alot of effort into the verification of historical names and facts. He has created a chilling and frightening world which I am glad the world did not get to see. A good book for history fanatics who are interested to see how a novel can be molded and shaped from actual happenings, as well as highly readable for people who know zilch about Nazism or Germany during the war -- they WILL wanna know more after reading this gem!! Character development was excellent and the protaganist Xavier March made me feel so much for his struggles and tortures, it was hard to put the book down. I finished reading at 4am in the morning and the poignant ending made my heart ache and get up a few times in the night (or morning??) just so I could look at the book again. One of those books which keeps you on edge and moves you profoundly. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!! MUST READ!!!!!!	2001-06-28
US	43395714	R8ZZGGWRR2TJU	0679428887	926822340	Archangel: A Novel	Books	3	1	3	N	N	ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ	Pretty disappointing book to read after the phenomenal Fatherland. I was really expecting something to top the latter book on Nazi Germany, but instead, Archangel disappointed!!! It started off ok, in Robert Harris' usual style, and it actually carried me forth to the middle part where we get all excited about the discovery of this book which was supposed to be a diary of some sort related to Stalin. However, the last third of the book was such a farce!!! The whole drawn-out jungle like scene in the depths of Archangel was totally overworked and left me impatient and the ending, though not what I was expecting, and ingenious up to a certain point, did not manage to lift me from the exhaustion incurred from having read the previous section!!! This book had great promise but failed in the end. 4 for the beginning, 5 for the second part, 3/4 for the third and 2 for the end. I wish it had built up rather than the other way round. Still, Harris is a magnificent writer and I look forward to his other offerings.	2001-06-28
