US	43420620	R25E75F1DUU1C7	0380802600	167045660	The Proposition	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A True Fairy Tale	Lady Edwina Bollash knows a real challenge when she sees one. This challenge is in the form of taking an outspoken, unpolished, but oh so handsome ratcatcher with a unique Cornish Cockney accent, and transforming him into a smooth-talking gentleman. Edwina is a renowned linguist, and she finds Mick Tremore's way of speaking simply fascinating. Actually, she finds all of him simply fascinating.<br />Brought up in wealth, but having most everything taken away from her by her cruel cousin once her father died, Edwina is prim, proper, and generally regarded as a plain spinster. However, one wouldn't think she was plain by the way Mick regards her, and his thoughts of her are none too proper either. Mick happens to know first hand that Edwina is the proud owner of a first class pair of legs, and he's been obsessed with them since gazing on them without her knowledge. <br />Edwina has six weeks to transform Mick into a proper gentleman, and pass him off at a London ball as a Viscount. But Mick may not be the only one transformed by their time together. And what will happen if he attends the ball and life-altering secrets are revealed? And will Mick and Edwina, who obviously come from different worlds, be able to find enough common ground to remain together after the six weeks are finished? <br />I've been continuing to broaden my reading horizons by trying the work of authors new to me. Unfortunately, I'm finding that out of every three to four untried authors, odds are I'll only find one whose work is superior. Judith Ivory's work here is most assuredly in that superior category. Even though I recognize the premise of \\"My Fair Lady\\" with a role reversal, this story is fresh, funny, and endearingly romantic. These beautifully flawed characters showed an emotional depth, and it was a real pleasure to watch them grow and change together while falling in love. Ms. Ivory is obviously a masterful storyteller who penned a flowing, seamless story filled with romance, wrought with sexual tension, and an ending worthy of a true fairy tale. This has to be one of the best books I've read to date, and I will now be in search of her backlist titles.	2004-07-13
US	43420620	R59JF1A5YW7J1	0380817896	542474557	Claiming the Highlander (The MacAllisters)	Books	1	12	16	N	N	Abysmal	Maggie ingen Blar was fed up with the bloodshed of her family and people, the result of an overlong clan war with the neighboring group. So she came up with a viable plan to put an end to the problem. Organizing the women of not only her clan, but also their rivals, they had separated themselves from their men. In doing so the men would not enjoy any of the privileges of marriage, until they agreed to stop their foolishness and declare peace.<br />What she didn't count on was the men sending the one man she, and most women, had a special weakness for. Braden MacAllister, the most devastingly handsome warrior to tread in her path, could deliver the fatal blow to her well-laid plans. He figures a little charm and sweet talk ought to do the trick, but Maggie proves to be made of sterner stuff. So he may have to pull out the big gun, so to speak, to convince her to give up. <br />This was my first perusal of a Kinley MacGregor novel, and after reading some of the glowing reviews of her work, I could hardly wait to try one out. This has to be the worst kind of disappointment, when you're expecting something really wonderful, and it turns out to be, well...really bad. The premise sounded okay, although rather thin in the plot department. But I really thought the humor I had heard so much about in her books would prove to be the glue holding the story together. However, the humor seemed really forced, as if the author was trying too hard to make it funny, so the result was contrived. The characters are one dimensional, and there was nothing present here to engage my emotions and make me care what happened to them. In fact, this story was just plain boring, and I couldn't get past page ninety-seven. I skimmed ahead to find the section where he, ahem...pulled out the big gun, and even that was rather boring. There's nothing here to recommend, and this is my first, as well as my last, MacGregor novel. I have to say I am baffled by the dismal quality here, because she also writes as Sherrilyn Kenyon, and I thought the book FANTASY LOVER was quite good.	2004-07-12
US	43420620	RKOW2QOM7A3SQ	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Sit on the Edge of Your Seat Romantic Adventure	Gwen Cassidy was just trying to add a dash of spice to her ho-hum way of life. At twenty-five she has no family left to speak of, she's sick of her job, and there's no man in her life. So she embarks on a group tour of Scotland, but little does she know her trip will lead to the adventure of a lifetime, and then some. While out exploring alone, she stumbles and falls into a cave, directly on top of the sexiest man she's ever laid eyes on. A Highland warrior, who awakens from a nap that has lasted centuries.<br />Drustan MacKeltar is determined to keep Gwen by his side, especially once he discovers he has been enchanted for five hundred years, and only ruins remain where his castle once stood. He knows he must return to his own time by using the closely guarded power and knowledge of his Druid heritage. Drustan has the ability to travel through time, and he'll not leave Gwen behind. She has no idea she will accompany him, until she finds herself whisked back to sixteenth century Scotland. It is then that Gwen realizes the life of the man she loves, along with the fate of Drustan's entire clan, rests solely with her. For there is an enemy plot which will eventually cause the death of Drustan's people, unless she can successfully alter the course of time. But can this diverse couple, each from a different century, find a way to remain in one place together for all time? <br />I believe my first thought after finishing this book was, \\"Wow!\\" This was my first novel to read by Ms. Moning, and I was definitely impressed. I've previously read a couple of time travel books by other authors, and found them too unbelievable and just lacking something. Now I do realize that any way you look at it, time travel is unrealistic. But the difference here is Ms. Moning makes it realistic, and very possible. This story was a non-stop, sit on the edge of your seat, quick, turn that page, nail-biting adventure! In fact the pace reminded me of watching an Indiana Jones movie. This book has it all: well-developed main characters, interesting secondary characters which add to the plot, fast-paced adventure, humor, romance, and some sizzling love scenes. A definite five star keeper, and I can't wait to read the rest of this series!	2004-07-11
US	43420620	R10CM6CQ4UBE6L	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Legendary Hockey Book was Worth my Wait	Seven years ago, Southern belle Georgeanne Howard left her rich, and decidedly older fiancé at the altar. In her hurry to escape, she accepted the offer of a ride from the tall, handsome man getting into a red Corvette. John Kowalsky, renowned bad boy and professional hockey player, had no idea he was assisting in the escape of his boss's intended bride. But since she had no one else to turn to, nor a place to go, he put her up for the night. The night turned into a bewitching temptation too good to pass up. However, in the cold light of day, penniless Georgeanne found herself in love with John, and abruptly dropped off at the airport with a paid ticket in hand. <br />Now they run into each other again, and this time Georgeanne is part owner in a successful catering business, and John has cleaned up his life and is considering settling down. Imagine his shock when he meets Georgeanne's daughter, and realizes he's the father. He wants to get acquainted with his daughter and become part of her life, but in doing that he also grows closer to Georgeanne. Has he actually changed enough to settle down, and will John risk his career by his boss finding out about his romantic involvement with Georgeanne? <br />In my opinion, Rachel Gibson is unquestionably one of the best authors of the subgenre of contemporary romance. I was hooked upon reading my first book by her, and she's now one of the few whose titles I buy sight unseen. Lately, I've been catching up on her backlist of work, and I was particularly interested in this one. The first book I had read by her was SEE JANE SCORE, whose male lead was also a professional hockey player. I've carried a certain curiosity about SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE, because it is commonly referred to as &quot;The Hockey Book&quot;. While this was an excellent story with in depth characters, witty dialogue, great romance, and love scenes that made me forget to breathe; my favorite book by her still remains, SEE JANE SCORE. However, I do wonder ifit would have made a difference if I had read this one first. At any rate, this is a wonderful book that is certainly worth picking up for an unforgettable reading experience. Whenever I'm in a reading slump, I know I can end it simply by picking up a novel by Ms. Gibson. I have yet to read something by her that I didn't love.	2004-07-11
US	43420620	R2OLYIZKBIIABL	0380815672	716740751	His Unexpected Wife	Books	1	4	5	N	N	This book could be a cure for insomnia	After several years away, Colin McBride returns to Colorado to visit a married couple who were his closest friends. He's surprised to see that their daughter, Anne Trevelyan, has grown into a beautiful young woman. Colin is only visiting for a short time before heading to San Francisco, where he plans to buy a ranch, marry, and settle down. His friends ask him to escort the lovely Anne to San Francisco where they have enrolled her in a finishing school. Although he's concerned about escorting such an attractive woman hundreds of miles, he cannot say no to his friends. <br />Anne is attracted to the handsome Colin, but she's determined to seek fame and fortune as an actress. Her parents are not in favor of her ambitions, which is why they are enrolling her in the finishing school. Anne has other plans though, and surmises all she needs to do is flirt with her companion enough, and he'll allow her to do as she wishes. But when passion rages between them on the trip, Colin wants to marry her. Anne is determined to devote her time to her career, and a husband doesn't fit into the equation. <br />When I picked up this book, I was unfamiliar with this author, but the premise sounded interesting. Unfortunately, this has to be one of the worst books I've ever read. Colin was likeable, but Anne was immature and self-centered. What he saw in her is a mystery to me. The characters were one-dimensional, and never engaged my emotions. I virtually lost interest in the story, and could care less what happened to the characters. Additionally, the writing seemed awkward and didn't flow well. I have no idea why I finished this book, because it was painful to get through even with the skimming I did at times. Save yourself the agony by passing on this one.	2004-05-28
US	43420620	R2RPTSIQGJ5MQP	0060505621	263805357	Once a Dreamer	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Compelling and Utterly Romantic Story	Eleanor Tennant is steaming mad. Her eighteen year old niece, Belinda, has been given some really bad advice to follow her heart, and pursue her relationship with the scoundrel she's infatuated with. Belinda's father has been at sea for the majority of her childhood, and for the last several years her upbringing has been the sole responsibility of Eleanor. She just won't stand for that misguided lady columnist, the Busybody from the Ladies' Fashionable Cabinet, handing out damaging advice to young girls, especially her niece. After putting forth much effort, she finally uncovers the Busybody's residence, only to unwittingly discover the lady is actually a man, Simon Westover.<br />Simon must keep his columnist identity secret at all costs, so he's forced to do as Eleanor wishes. So he'll return to her home, speak with her niece, and set everything straight. Except when they reach Eleanor's home, Belinda has run off with her beau to supposedly get married. Eleanor believes there will be no marriage, and Belinda will be ruined. Eleanor is determined to find the duo and rescue her niece at all costs. She insists Simon accompany her on the trip. Left with no choice, Simon escorts the lovely, fiery, and tempting Eleanor across the country. However, on the way, Eleanor begins to change her opinion about Simon, and it becomes more and more difficult to deny the strong attraction between them. But will Simon, a hopeless romantic, breach the heart of the cold, cynical, and closed off Eleanor? <br />After reading a string of forgettable books lately, this novel was a welcome breath of fresh air. I found the writing smart and witty. The characters were well developed, and I really felt as if I knew them. Simon has to be one of the most wonderful and original heroes I've had the pleasure of spending time with. He's gentle, compassionate, honorable, a hopeless romantic, and he actually blushes when he's embarrassed. How adorable! But even though he's described as bookish, he's still quite handsome with the muscular physique of the typical romance hero.<br />I know there is some controversy over Eleanor's character, but I have to say I understood the reasons she had become the person she was. And I did like her most of the time, because she was such a perfect counterpart to Simon. Their interactions and heated discussions were interesting. The only time I didn't like Eleanor was toward the end, when she said some really nasty things to sweet Simon, who didn't deserve to be treated in such a manner. And while I got over it, and she did redeem herself, I would have enjoyed a little more graveling on her part to regain Simon's good favor. But don't let those few pages keep you from reading a superbly written and most enjoyable story. This was my first Candice Hern novel, but I can't wait to read ONCE A SCOUNDREL, the follow-up to this.	2004-05-28
US	43420620	R14XTVBYM01RSL	0380808323	888346369	A Scandalous Marriage	Books	3	17	17	N	N	A Wonderful Hero but a Mediocre Story	Beautiful debutante, Leah Carrollton, could have any man she wanted. But the selection found in London ballrooms was dull and unappealing. That is, until she met Devon Marshall, Viscount Huxhold, who was most appealing indeed. Devon shared the same regard for the lovely Leah, and since her family had been pressing her to pick a husband of means to offset their financial situation, Devon seemed perfect. But Leah's brother would not even consider a union between the two, since the Carrollton and Marshall families were old enemies. Leah was forced to end her relationship with Devon, and he left London soon afterward. A distraught Leah exercised poor judgment, and ran off with a notorious scoundrel who ruined her and left her pregnant. She then fled London for the countryside to bear her child alone.<br />Some months later, while traveling through the English countryside, Devon discovers a very pregnant Leah living in squalor. Before much could be spoken between the two, Leah went into labor. After assisting with the difficult delivery, Devon married her and claimed the child as his own. But old secrets and hurts still exist between the two. Will they be able to get past their problems, and rediscover their love for each other?<br />I'm beginning to think Cathy Maxwell is a writer whose work I'm just not really drawn to. I found her story in the anthology TWO FOR TEA quite good, so I sought out more of her titles. Next I read THE WEDDING WAGER, which I also found to be very satisfying. But the last two books I've read by her, this one and its prequel MARRIED IN HASTE, were horribly average. This story started off well, and I very much enjoyed the hero saving the heroine from her less than perfect living situation. Then he even went so far as to claim her fatherless child as his own. In fact, the hero of this book is a wonderful, charming, and honorable man, and his character is the best part of this story. Not that I found Leah unlikable; she was just okay. But after they married, the story seemed forced, lost momentum, and ceased to be as interesting. I did finish the book, but overall it just wasn't that special or memorable for me. I have one other novel by this author already in my possession, so I'll probably read it. However, if its not better than these last two, I'm most likely done reading Ms. Maxwell's work.	2004-05-27
US	43420620	R1X9XRER1ASHJD	0380815184	154777133	Pride and Prudence	Books	3	3	3	N	N	He was made a Fool for Love	Even though the handsome and dashing Captain James Ashley returned a hero from the war, it isn't his prowess on the battlefield people talk about. In multitudes of drawing rooms his name emerges in the course of conversation, and the fairer sex of society has dubbed him, \\"The Most Delectable Man in England\\" who is only good for one thing. James craves respectability, and the chance to redeem himself for losing his ship to the smuggler's canon. Now he's returning to that area to investigate the smuggling, and catch the notorious \\"Wolf\\" who is reputed to be the leader of the crimes.<br />Independent and beautiful, Lady Prudence Farnsworth has become the protector of her town. When Prudence and James meet, their attraction for each other is undeniable. When they are caught in a compromising position, they are forced to marry. But will their love for one another be enough when James discovers the shocking secret Prudence has kept from him, and the lengths she has gone to protect it? <br />This was the first and only book I've read by this author. The storyline does end up being rather original, and it wasn't a bad read, but unfortunately it also wasn't very memorable. The humorous moments were its biggest saving grace, but there were points in the book where the story just didn't seem to flow very well to me. And probably what bothered me the most was how Prudence basically made a fool of the hero at least twice - once without her knowledge of his identity, and again when she did. And in each case a serious circumstance made him look foolish. In addition, he was humiliated with the whole town's knowledge. Anyway, if you come across this book, you may want to give it a try, but I certainly wouldn't go out of my way to look for it.	2004-05-25
US	43420620	R1ZTMAE3UTP8KC	0380808315	284468415	Married in Haste (Marriage)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	A Wager Leads to a Hasty Wedding	Tess Hamlin, being a rich and beautiful heiress, could have her pick among the eligible men, and in fact, has turned down several offers of marriage. No man has captured her interest or affections, until at a ball she meets handsome war hero, Brenn Owen, the new Earl of Merton. Brenn is equally enamored with the captivating Tess, plus he must marry a rich heiress in order to afford the cost involved with restoring his estate back to its original glory. <br />The circumstances that bring them to marry are most unusual indeed. As a lark, Tess makes a bet with her closest rival, which grows into a wager among several bored debutantes at the ball. Whoever garners the first marriage proposal wins. When the bet becomes public, Tess' brother insists she save her reputation by marrying Brenn, who has offered for her. Initially she refuses, but once she discovers her irresponsible brother has gambled away her fortune, she has no choice but to marry quickly in order to save face, and insure she ends up with a rich husband. <br />Tess and Brenn's mutual attraction and passion for each other leads to temporary happiness. Tess is unaware of his lack of finances, and the dilapidated state of her husband's home. Brenn is still in the dark that his rich heiress is now penniless. When they reach his Wales estate, the secrets are revealed. Will their secrets shatter their trust in each other, or will love conquer all?<br />Cathy Maxwell's books are a hit and miss proposition for me. One will be really good, and the next will be okay, but nothing special. Unfortunately, this book basically falls into the nothing-special category. It started off well with interesting, likeable characters. I enjoyed Tess' little wager and felt that was an original element of the story. In fact, the story was above average until Tess and Brenn reached Wales, and then it deteriorated. Especially when Tess became interested in the local folklore and the fairy folk. From there, the story became more unbelievable and felt rather forced. <br />If you've never read Ms. Maxwell before, I wouldn't recommend beginning with this one. Probably the best book of hers I've read thus far would be THE WEDDING WAGER, so that would be my suggestion to begin with. If you're a Maxwell fan, you may still find this worth checking out.	2004-05-24
US	43420620	R1A6P0C8L0UVFE	0380820706	300698054	Opposites Attract	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Mundane Story with Unlikable Heroine	Jonquil &quot;Jonni&quot; DeVries is trying to deal with the blow life has handed her. Her husband died in an auto accident a year ago, leaving her and their five-year-old daughter to deal with the loss. Jonni has coped by isolating herself, overeating, and dwelling on the very real possibility her husband had been cheating on her, prior to his death. At the suggestion of her twin sister, Jonni agrees to allow a children's movie to be filmed in her New Orleans mansion. <br />The star of the movie is none other than Hollywood's reigning action hero heartthrob, Cameron Scott. Cameron has always thrived on life in the fast lane, taking advantage of what women all too willingly offer him. But recently he's realized just how empty his life is, and has begun thinking of a home and family of his own. When he meets Jonni, he's instantly attracted to her, even though she's nothing like the women he normally associates with. But will gun-shy Jonni believe Cameron may actually want to settle down with her? <br />I've been trying out books lately by authors I've not read before, and I have to say I'm not having much luck. I just couldn't get into this story, and by chapter ten or eleven I began skimming to get through the remainder of the book. I couldn't really identify with the heroine, and found her rather annoying and unlikable. She's rich, doesn't have to work for a living, and seems to stay home quite a lot. But she needs to hire a live-in nanny to care for her five-year-old child? And I really grew tired of her dwelling on her late husband's fidelity, or as it turned out, his lack thereof. <br />For the most part, I did like the hero, but overall I found both their characters lacking depth. And therefore, I didn't feel an emotional connection with them or their story. In fact, the story came across as being forced. I will give credit for the highly erotic love scenes, but that's not enough to redeem this book, or make it worth reading.	2004-05-23
US	43420620	R2ZUBEO909CTSE	0060092149	56850698	Married to the Viscount (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 5)	Books	2	24	29	N	N	Mediocre Fluff	Spencer Law, Viscount Ravenswood, travels to America with his brother on business. But the business trip becomes pleasure upon meeting the beautiful and outspoken Abigail Mercer. As attracted as Spencer is to the lovely Miss Mercer, he has vowed never to marry. But during a drinking escapade with his brother prior to his return to London, he unknowingly reveals the extent of his attraction to her. <br />A few months later, much to Spencer's surprise, Abigail shows up on his doorstep during a party, claiming to be his bride. Apparently Spencer's brother married them by proxy, with Abigail believing Spencer had wanted the marriage. Now the brother has disappeared with her considerable dowry in his possession. To avoid scandal, Spencer has concocted a scheme where he and Abigail will pretend to be happily married, until he can locate his brother. But even though the controlling Spencer is determined not to have a wife in truth, will he be able to resist Abigail's charms, especially since she wants them to remain married? <br />I was really looking forward to reading a book by this author, after reading some of the glowing reviews of her work. Obviously, I had rather high expectations of this book, and unfortunately it turned out to be a major disappointment. The story was lackluster and unoriginal. The main characters were one-dimensional cardboard cutouts that, along with their story, never managed to engage my emotions. In fact, this book was just plain boring. I kept expecting it to improve, but too late I realized this was as good as it would get. I did manage to finish it, but only because I began skimming to reach the ending sooner. The whole premise of why he didn't want to be married became ridiculous, after it was carried on for so long. I kept thinking, man, just tell her and get this over with! <br />On the bright side, there were a couple of places where the author did succeed in adding something humorous, but those few times were not worth the effort of reading this whole book. Even the sex became mundane and boring after awhile. Don't walk, but run away from this one!	2004-05-21
US	43420620	RH7XBRCUBRLEL	0553565222	646699619	The Last Bachelor	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Well-Crafted Battle of the Sexes	Lady Antonia Paxton has an interesting reputation among the prominent and wealthy men of London. She is the infamous Lady Matrimonia, who champions young widows with nowhere else to turn. Antonia sponsors these ladies in her home, and when each is courted by a well-heeled bachelor, she then crashes their love nest to catch them in a compromising position, thus forcing the man to offer marriage to avoid scandal. She steadfastly believes marriage is the only way these women can be properly provided for and protected. <br />Remington Carr, the Earl of Landon, is known for his extremely controversial views on the subjects of marriage and womens' rights. He believes marriage should be abolished, and women should be allowed to work and independently support themselves. When a group of Antonia's disgruntled husbands gather to complain of their bachelorhood demise, they enlist the help of Remington in teaching Antonia a lesson that will end her matchmaking career. <br />When Antonia and Remington meet, the sparks really fly, in more ways than one. The gauntlet is tossed down and a wager is made. Remington is to report to Antonia's house for a period of two weeks, and do an average woman's work each of those days. If by the end of that time, he hasn't changed his mind concerning the nature of women's worth and work, she will then do an average man's work for a two-week period. <br />The wager becomes more than either bargained for. Antonia has a whole host of older widow ladies residing with her who become Remington's teachers. And the pupil has his own ideas while in close proximity to Antonia. To seduce her into his bed. But what will happen when the \\"dragon of decency\\" falls in love with the \\"ladies man\\"?<br />This isn't your run of the mill romance novel. This story is interesting, witty, and unique, with multi-faceted characters that capture your heart and emotions. Antonia's ladies are endearing, and an exceptional addition to the story as secondary characters. Overall, this is a well-written book, and the first for me by this author. There was one problem that prevented me from giving it five stars. This book is 519 pages long, and it took me six days to read. If I'm really engrossed in a story, it takes me an average of one to two days to finish it. While I love detailed stories where I feel like I really know the characters, this had a plodding quality to it, and I couldn't stay with it for very long at a sitting. I think it may have been better edited down to pick up the pace. Overall, it was still worth the time, and I never considered not finishing it. Ms. Krahn is obviously a gifted writer, and I will be trying out more of her work.	2004-05-21
US	43420620	R1EX4531GR163P	0671019619	303937449	Grand Passion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Love, Family, and a Sense of Belonging	Cynical and uptight, Max Fortune, head of the giant Curzon Hotel chain, arrives at the quaint Robbins' Nest Inn. Max is searching for five priceless paintings bequeathed to him by his mentor, Jason Curzon. The inn is where Jason had directed him to seek out the works of art. What he discovers during his stay is his attraction to the inn's owner, Cleopatra Robbins, and the importance of belonging to a family. Cleo lovingly refers to her staff members as \\"the family\\", and they do support each other as such. Max, who has no family, has spent his life working for money and power in an effort to fit in somewhere. As Max searches for the paintings, his relationship with Cleo intensifies, and he begins to realize his mentor intended for him to find another type of treasure at this little inn. But he feels Cleo is hiding something from him, plus it appears someone wants her out of the way permanently. <br />This was, for the most part, a satisfying reading experience. It contained many of the elements of a great story, such as romance, intrigue, depth of feeling, well-developed characters, and sexual tension. The main and secondary characters were all likeable, and it was a nice touch that the hero wasn't physically perfect, since he walked with the aid of a cane. The mystery was well done, because while I had figured out part of it, I wasn't able to figure out all of it for quite some time. Probably my only complaint would be, I would've liked more description of the love scenes. They had real possibility, but fell short after all that buildup to get there. Not a book I feel compelled to read again, but enjoyable all the same.	2004-05-19
US	43420620	RJGEFDHKILT5I	0312979975	283452346	Fantasy Lover	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Unique Blend of Originality and Imagination	Sex therapist Grace Alexander is turning twenty-nine, and her track record in relationships with men has been less than stellar. Her closest friend Selena, a gypsy palm reader, is concerned that Grace lacks a love life and gives her a very special birthday gift. A two thousand year old book that, according to legend, contains a Greek God trapped inside its covers for all eternity, to be summoned by a woman as her own personal love slave. Grace is skeptical, but jokingly plays along with reciting the words to bring him forth. Nothing happens.<br />Well, initially nothing happens. But a little later she finds a huge, gorgeous, and very naked warrior in her house ready to fulfill her every fantasy. Now while most of us would nail shut all the windows and doors, take the phone off the hook, and never leave home again, Grace refuses to give in to her urges. In fact, she insists he wear clothes, takes him out in public, and treats him as a human. <br />A Greek general, and son of the goddess Aphrodite, Julian of Macedon was cursed by his jealous brother, and placed in the book to spend eternity alone. Except for when a woman summons him, and then he spends from one full moon to the next pleasuring her, and he knows everything about pleasuring a woman. Julian learned long ago to accept his fate, and no longer feels anything, but Grace changes all that. Now together they will work to figure out how to break the curse, but when they discover how, will they each be willing to follow through with what's required?<br />This remains one of, if not the most unique romance novel I've read to date. When I decided to read this book, it was with a mix of intrigue for the original storyline, and trepidation it would be too far-fetched, and might be to the point of ridiculous. But the fact this book is on the Romance Writers of America's Top Ten List, of the year it was published, prompted me to give it a try. And I have to say I wasn't disappointed. This story is very well written, and even though it stretches the limits of the imagination, it does not come off as ridiculous or silly as I had feared. The mix of myth, romance, tenderness, humor, intrigue, and yes, some really sizzling love scenes, makes for an intoxicating and memorable reading experience. I actually read this several months ago, and even though I've read many books since this, I still remember this one. <br />If I had to come up with something negative, it would probably be that I felt the climatic ending was stretched out a little too long. The number of events that occurred then went wrong, thus requiring Aphrodite's intervention, got a little frustrating for me. I'll leave it at that; so not too much of the ending is given away. In the grand scheme of things, that was only minor, and this book is definitely worth checking out for yourself.	2004-05-18
US	43420620	RA3KIKTA9BZ2P	055358068X	530670102	The Least Likely Bride	Books	2	12	12	N	N	Where's the Romance?	Lady Olivia Granville, a most avid scholar, is reading while walking along the cliff's edge, when her footing gives way and she falls down the side. She's rescued by Anthony, a handsome Royalist pirate, whose political agenda is in direct conflict with that of her noble father. She wakes on his pirate ship, The Wind Dancer, where Anthony has used his knowledge of healing to care for her wounds. As a child, Olivia and her two closest friends made a pact never to marry. Anthony and Olivia's relationship quickly turns intimate, but she still has no desire to marry, and Anthony doesn't live within the law. So how will these two ever get together?<br />The answer to that question is surprising, and one of the reasons I was less than thrilled with this book. The ending was not typical of a romance novel, and while original, it lacked the, \\"they're so much in love, and will live happily ever after feel\\" I like to end up with when I finish a book. This novel also seemed to be more about sex than romance and love. In the beginning of the story, she regained consciousness and realized she was naked in his bed, and he had no problem convincing her to have casual sex with him?! With a man she didn't even know? The writing is good, but I have definite issues with the content of the story. The author does incorporate some heavier issues with Olivia's suppressed memories of child sexual abuse. But I think that only added to the dysfunctional feel of their casual sex relationship, which was supposed to pass for love. And then of course, the dysfunction continues with the ending. <br />This is apparently the third book in a trilogy, but this was the first novel for me to read by this author. And since this, I haven't read anything else by her, for fear this book is typical of her work. I wouldn't recommend reading this, but if you're a Feather fan, you may feel differently.	2004-05-17
US	43420620	RB595T15SXYHH	0060002050	10081740	On a Wicked Dawn (Cynster Novels)	Books	2	27	30	N	N	Weak Plot with Emotionally Shallow Characters	Amelia Cynster, along with her twin sister Amanda, have been searching London ballrooms for six years looking for their perfect match. Each is bored with the uninteresting prospects, and both have decided to take matters into their own hands. <br />After seeing her sister triumphantly wed to the man of her choosing, Amelia sets out to do the same. Her choice is Lucien \\"Luc\\" Ashford, Viscount Calverton, whom she has always loved. Now she's going to do something about it. So one night she anxiously lies in wait for him to return home so she can set her plan in motion. Amelia boldly proposes to him, under the guise of how much her dowry will assist his family with their financial problems. Luc agrees, then passes out at her feet. <br />He actually already loves Amelia, but won't tell her because he feels it would give her too much power over him. Amelia also won't divulge her love for him. Will these two ever trust each other enough to confess their true feelings?<br />That is basically the whole book in a nutshell. It started out pretty good with her proposing to him, which I thought showed some originality. Well, that's the extent of the originality found here. He won't just quickly marry her, but wants to court her first. The whole plot becomes, who will seduce whom first. At first this is okay, but after so many of these scenes, plus when they start getting horizontal (which doesn't take long), the story then becomes a stream of love scenes without much of anything else to offer. I ceased to care about the characters after awhile. There was no depth of emotion, and no indication of anything between them besides lust. Of course, Luc is the rake who is the master of seduction, and she's blonde, curvaceous, outgoing, and perfect in every way, including a voracious sexual appetite. YAWN! <br />There is nothing unique or special here. This was my third book to read by this author, and probably my last. I cannot recommend this.	2004-05-16
US	43420620	R2U6AGBEU3OWWH	0671016652	349044747	Three Wishes	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Bittersweet Love Story	While walking home one evening during a raging snowstorm, waitress Bree Miller is struck by a vehicle skidding out of control on the icy road. The vehicle's driver is renowned author, Tom Gates, who has just moved to the small Vermont town to take stock of his life tainted by fame. Tom accompanies Bree to the hospital, and remains with her during her recovery there, and eventually at home. Bree has no family to speak of, and her dreams of a home, a man to love, and family, appear to be within her grasp in the form of Tom. Eventually, she confides in him of her out-of-body experience, during the time her heart had stopped after the accident. She saw a white light, full of love, which once revived; she felt this entity had given her three wishes. The only thing is, she thinks there's a possibility she may die again once her wishes are fulfilled. <br />This was my first book to read by this author, and so far I haven't read any of her other work. It was a very well written and compelling story, with interesting, multi-faceted characters. In fact, I could hardly put the book down, because I kept wondering how it would end. The reason I haven't read anything else by this author, as good as she is, is because it was an emotionally draining story for me, full of bittersweet moments. My reading preference leans more toward romantic comedies or sweet, romantic love stories. If you don't mind quite a bit of sadness in your romance reads, then this is probably the book for you.	2004-05-14
US	43420620	R3A8TDQ0ETDDH0	038082082X	724787021	The Rake (Lessons in Love, Book 1)	Books	2	11	15	N	N	Disappointing story relies on annoying plot devices	Several years ago, Lady Georgiana Halley had been smitten with the handsome rake, Viscount Dare. In fact, he had charmed her to the point she lost her virginity to him. But what she found out afterward was humiliating. Lord Dare had made a wager with some gentlemen that he could bed Georgiana. She has never forgiven him for treating her in such a cold and calculating manner. Now he's seriously courting another young miss, and Georgiana hatches a plan to give Dare his comeuppance, and insure he proposes to the young lady. She manages to get herself invited to stay with him and his family, all the while using every feminine wile she possesses to make Dare fall in love with her. Then she plans to discard him just as he did her. The only hitch is, she didn't count on the intensity of her feelings for him, and he's never gotten her out of his system. <br />This was my first book to read by this author, and apparently this wasn't a good choice for me to begin with. It started out being cute and funny with the antagonistic relationship between Dare and Georgiana, but the story deteriorated as I read on. It became juvenile in nature, and just too corny to be believable. Plus, I really dislike the big misunderstanding and revenge plot devices. Unfortunately, this book contained both. In fact, I quit reading it and just skimmed through the rest. The main characters were one-dimensional and lacked real emotional depth. I've read some of the other reviews that say this author has much better work out there, so I will probably try another by her. But I don't recommend reading this, especially if you've not read Ms. Enoch before.	2004-05-13
US	43420620	R3GI5TWNPHZB2Z	0440235537	503029624	Red Roses Mean Love	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Basically Good � Despite Flaws	Hayley Albright had all but given up on ever settling down and getting married. Her fiancé jilted her after her father's death left behind the responsibility of raising her four younger siblings. Not only that, but her father also left debts which took most of the inheritance to pay off. Hayley found a way to support her family, but if society ever discovers her secret employment, it would be quite the scandal. <br />Returning home from London one evening, she finds an unconscious man who has been shot and left for dead. She takes him home and under her care, he slowly recovers. Stephen Barrett, the Marquess of Glenfield, and heir to a duke, woke to the conclusion someone is indeed trying to kill him. Therefore, it would be in his best interest to not divulge his identity, in case the killer tries to find him to finish him off. So, Hayley comes to know him as the tutor, Stephen Barrettson. <br />Stephen is cynical, not used to displays of love and affection, and believes anyone being nice to him must have a hidden agenda. But he's baffled by Hayley's compassion, and selflessness, when she has no idea of his noble status. He finds himself unwittingly drawn to, and captivated by her, even though she and her household are unconventional to say the least. Hayley also finds herself attracted to this too proper, but ultimately kind man. What will happen when Stephen has to leave and return to his London home? And what will she think if she finds out he's lied about his true identity?<br />This was the debut novel for Ms. D'Alessandro, and I found it a little difficult to rate, because while it was good, I didn't feel it was great. However, taking into account this is her first published book, I see great potential for growth.<br />Certain phrases and plot devices seemed overused in the portrayal of this story. Some examples would be, Stephen and Hayley would have an encounter with each other, and then each would separately vow to steer clear of the other. But of course,by that evening or the next day, they were spending time together again. Now, we want them to be together, but I did tire of hearing the same mental battle over and over. These women also blushed way too much. It became distracting that one of them always had &quot;color staining her cheeks&quot;. That phrase was overused. Hayley saved Stephen's life not once, but twice. That plot device seemed overused. Stephen also treated Hayley unkindly too many times, and that became tiresome as well. <br />Overall, the writing was good, but these things I've mentioned became a distraction. The characters were all likeable, and the humor made it much more enjoyable for me. In summary, even though this book was only average in my opinion, I will read another by this author, because I see real potential for her future work.	2004-05-12
US	43420620	R3SSFGSJ7RBRNE	0380802937	914283239	Someday My Prince	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Still a good read despite hero	Crown Princess Laurentia knew it was her duty to choose a suitable husband, in order to produce an heir to the throne of Bertinierre.  But she had been down the matrimonial road once before, and it had been disastrous. Now at twenty-five, she is a widow, and still a virgin. Her father, King Jerome, has invited potential suitors from far and wide, hoping someone will capture his daughter's attention. He wants nothing more than love and happiness for her. Laurentia has found no one the least bit interesting, until she meets Prince Dominic.<br />Prince Domonic is the illegitimate brother of the king of neighboring Sereminia. Not only that, but he's a mercenary, and the black sheep of the family. Due to recent threats to the throne, Laurentia's father hires Dominic to protect his daughter from harm. But who will protect Laurentia from the undeniable desire Dominic elicits from her, despite her efforts to escape it? And will he prove to be the one love she has been searching for, or will his debt of honor end in betrayal of the beautiful princess?<br />This is the sequel to THE RUNAWAY PRINCESS which I've yet to read. While this was an enjoyable story, it wasn't one of my favorites by Ms. Dodd. Mostly due to the hero being rather harsh and brooding, with a hidden agenda of betrayal. From what I understand, Dominic was introduced in the first book, and he was far from nice in it. Laurentia is a likeable, intelligent, and strong willed heroine. There are moments of humor here and the love scenes are quite sensual. As for a recommendation, if you're a Dodd fan like me, I'd recommend reading this one. However, if you've never read anything by this author, I'd recommend beginning with the Governess Bride Series, or THAT SCANDALOUS EVENING, rather than this selection.	2004-05-11
US	43420620	RP8K3HL9XC5LB	0440236630	230297888	A Summer to Remember (Bedwyn Saga)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	PERFECT	Kit Butler, Viscount Ravensberg, returned to London a year ago, and has subsequently gained notoriety, not only as a rake, but also as someone who frequently engages in shocking behaviors. Kit takes all the negative attention in stride though. In fact, he appears to relish the fact he's the main source of talk in the drawing rooms of London. Now his estranged father wants him to return home, in order to prepare for the day he'll inherit the earldom. However, Kit's father has also picked a bride for him. Determined to make his own choices, Kit plans to find a woman imminently suitable and respectable, to take home with him as his bride. His family won't be able to object to a marriage to such a woman. Without meeting her, he decides on the perfect choice to meet his requirements, Miss Lauren Edgeworth.<br />A year ago, Lauren was abandoned at the alter, and since then she has decided not to marry. Lauren has always been utterly dignified and respectable, but after being jilted, she has managed to bury herself beneath her dignity to the point of icy aloofness. Hence, Lauren strikes a bargain with Kit. She will return home with him posing as his betrothed, if he'll agree to provide her with one adventurous, passionate, and unforgettable summer. A summer to remember. At the end of the summer, she will break off their engagement, and move to Bath to live her life alone and independent. <br />Slowly, Kit releases Lauren from the shell of her existence, then realizes he's done the unthinkable. He has fallen in love with her. But will he be able to convince her that life with someone you love is preferable to her intended plan?<br />Let me just start by saying this is one of the best books I've ever read, a true work of art. When the story began, I thought it would be a light, fun, and pretty much run of the mill romance. Instead, what I discovered was a rare and perfect gem. Kit and Lauren were expertly crafted by Ms. Balogh, to the point they literally breathed with a life of their own from the pages. They were each very complex, multi-layered, but flawed individuals, who while helping each other heal, fell in love. There was never a doubt in my mind that they were in love. After all they did for each other, how could they not be? The secondary characters were also well crafted, and served to add extra depth to the story. <br />This was the first novel I've read by this author, and I know I'll certainly be reading more of her work. I'm anxious to start the &quot;Slightly&quot; series, which portrays the Bedwyn family introduced here. This book is a keeper, and a must read for anyone who loves the genre of romance, because it just doesn't get any better than this!	2004-05-07
US	43420620	R16UH0TDPIW2K9	0380818051	643437155	Secrets of a Perfect Night	Books	4	10	11	N	N	All are Good but they Saved the Best for Last!	This is a three-story collection written by various authors. I will give a description of each story below, as well as what rating I would assign if it were possible to rate each separately. The four stars rating awarded this book is the average taken of all three ratings. <br />SCANDALOUS LORD DERE: Adrian Andrew Hawsley, the sixth Viscount Dere, has just sworn off women. His reputation as a rake, combined with highly acclaimed abilities in the bedchamber, has women hunting him in droves. But those women are almost exclusively married, and he's tired of being their prey. While returning home to his principle estate, which he abandoned years ago following his father's death, he encounters a raging snowstorm, and nearly dies of exposure trying to get himself and his servant to safety. He picks a familiar house to collapse at the door of. The house of his childhood playmate, Abigail Woolley, the girl who at the age of sixteen, seduced him. Now they're snowbound together, and the intense desire between them resurfaces. After all this time, can Adrian convince her he wants nothing more than to settle down with the one woman he's always loved?<br />Stephanie Laurens wrote this story, and I was pleasantly surprised by how good it was. I've read a few books by her, but after deciding they were all much the same, and became less interesting to me each time I picked up another, I quit reading her work. Her writing style is definitely evident in this story, and it was an enjoyable read with quite erotic love scenes. I would award this selection four stars.<br />THE LAST LOVE LETTER: At the age of seventeen, Rachel Gresham fell hopelessly and passionately in love with Jason Norcross. Her cold and manipulative father was determined she marry someone of power and means, who could further his political aspirations. Jason had neither power nor money. So Rachel and Jason planned an elopement to America, only to have it foiled by her father who made sure they would not marry. Instead, she married George Norcross, the Earl of Lyndhurst and Jason's cousin. George eventually found out the truth behind what had separated Rachel and Jason, but chose to keep it to himself. A few years later, on his deathbed, George penned letters to Rachel and Jason explaining everything, and his wish they reconcile after his passing. Jason was the only living male heir of George, so as the new earl, he's returning to England. Will they be able to put the past behind them, and give love another chance?<br />This second story was penned by Victoria Alexander, and covered a ten-year expanse of time. The story did jump around from present to past, but was not difficult to follow. It was well written, but stories where the couple is separated for years by malevolent outside forces just aren't my favorite. Both main characters were likeable enough, but the love scenes were just okay. I would award three stars to this selection, with the story's premise being the main reason I didn't go higher. I've read one other book by this author, which was quite good, and I won't hesitate to read more of her work.<br />NOW AND FOREVER: Brina McConnell and Thomas Mack had been the best of friends since the first grade. They had dated for a short time their senior year in high school. But Brina ended their relationship by attending a dance with the quarterback of the football team. When her and the quarterback broke up a month later, Thomas had moved on with his life. He eventually started a computer software company, and then sold it for millions. Now Rachel and Thomas are both attending their ten-year high school reunion, at a ski resort during New Year's Eve. They have each changed significantly, and when they set eyes on each other again, the old feelings flame into something more uncontrollable. Will they begin the New Year by starting a new life together? <br />Rachel Gibson is one of my favorite authors, and this was just as wonderful as everything else I've read by her. The characters are well developed, and the story is sweet, warm, funny and sexy. The sexual tension between this couple vibrated from the pages, and the love scenes nearly incinerated those pages! Obviously this was my favorite of the three stories, and a definite five star read. <br />Overall, this is the best collection of stories by different authors, compiled into one book that I've ever read. I believe a large part of the success of this novel, aside from the talent of all three authors, is the fact that the couple in each story had met before, and had some type of relationship in the past. One thing that I believe is difficult to do in eighty to one hundred pages, is to develop the main characters well, and have them fall head over heals forever in love, and do it realistically in so few pages. But since each couple had begun their relationship years ago, it was believable for them to see each other again, and end up in love in so short a time. This book is worth checking out!	2004-05-06
US	43420620	RDIR0A6AU3AX9	0061083984	12162872	Once a Knight: Good Knights #1	Books	4	10	10	N	N	This Knight's Shining Armor is a Little Rusty	Lady Alisoun is the cool, levelheaded, and all too proper mistress of the castle at Georges Cross. A recent attempt has been made on her life, and she continues to be stalked by the assailant. She decides to hire the legendary mercenary, Sir David of Radcliffe, the king's own champion, for protection. But when she locates him, he's not quite what she's expecting. He's obviously in a drunken stupor, one resulting from his recent humiliating defeat, by a knight who challenged his status as the king's champion.<br />Alisoun decides to hire him anyway, since just his mere presence could keep further danger at bay. She soon discovers David's knightly skills are a little on the rusty side. And David makes a discovery of his own. Alisoun knows who her assailant is, and the motive behind the attacks, but she refuses to divulge this information.<br />They have another problem as well, for David desires the straight-laced Alisoun, and begins pursuing her, and using every opportunity to seduce her into marriage. Alisoun, who is rumored to be the oldest living widowed virgin in the kingdom, tries to resist his advances, but it's becoming increasingly difficult to do so. Will David be able to do what so many others before him have tried and failed to accomplish, by melting the icy wall around Alisoun's well-fortified heart?<br />This is the first installment in a two-book medieval series by Ms. Dodd. A delightfully humorous, and rather unique story of two less than perfect people who succumb to love. David is no longer the highly skilled, invincible knight of the legend. He's older now, his skills are rusty, and even with practice, will never be what they were. I found this very realistic. Isn't this what happens to everyone eventually as we age?<br />In some ways Alisoun is like other Dodd heroines, sensible, pragmatic, and intelligent. But she's far from the perfect romantic heroine. She's much too prim, proper, and devoid of a sense of humor and fun. This extreme in personality is what sets her apart from the typical Dodd female lead.  While I basically liked Alisoun, I was disappointed she didn't seem to thaw out too much as the book progressed. However, I especially liked the hero, David, and the supporting characters all added quite a lot to the story as well. Definitely a worthwhile read. The sequel to this book is A KNIGHT TO REMEMBER.lity is what sets her apart from the typical Dodd female lead.  While I basically liked Alisoun, I was disappointed she didn't seem to thaw out too much as the book progressed. However, I especially liked the hero, David, and the supporting characters all added quite a lot to the story as well. Definitely a worthwhile read. The sequel to this book is A KNIGHT TO REMEMBER.	2004-05-04
US	43420620	R1ZMJCAZQ87XT5	0380806312	899001105	The Husband List	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Lighthearted Romantic Comedy	The widowed Lady Gillian Marley never intended to remarry, but circumstances now lead her to search London for a suitable mate. A rather unconventional condition of her late uncle's will states she must be married, before her thirtieth birthday in two months, in order to inherit a sizable fortune. Her inheritance would include 600,000 pounds, eight ships, and land in America. Certainly an amount no one in her right mind would ignore. <br />Gillian turns to her two closest friends, who happen to be male, for assistance in choosing an appropriate husband. They each draw up a list of candidates for her to consider. She quickly decides upon the impoverished Earl of Shelbrooke, Richard Shelton. Inviting him to a gathering in her home, she proposes marriage, but in name only. Richard is stunned, but refuses to agree to a chaste marriage, no matter how badly he and his family could use the money. He wants to have children to carry on his name and title, and he quickly recognizes the spark of desire between he and Gillian. <br />But Richard has a deep, dark secret. He's been earning money by painting in oils under an assumed Frenchman's name. A great scandal for an aristocrat should his secret be revealed. During their courtship, Richard becomes curious to the extent of Gillian's feelings for him. To find out, he poses as the French painter (himself) and invites her to pose for him. What will the wicked Earl discover about his lady fair? <br />This was my first read by Ms. Alexander, but it won't be my last. THE HUSBAND LIST was a cute, warm, and humorous story. It's refreshing to sometimes read lighthearted romances that are just plain enjoyable, and don't send you on an emotional roller coaster. The only reason I didn't award this selection five stars is because while the book is very good, there are some occurrences that stretch the imagination for believability. The most blatant for instance would be Richard posing as the French painter, whose identity is actually Richard, to discover Gillian's true feelings for him. He doesn't even speak French, and she doesn't figure out who he really is. Even with scenes such as this, I was basically able to just accept it and continue enjoying the ongoing adventure. The humor was probably the biggest reason scenes such as this didn't take on the importance of a major flaw.  If you like light, romantic comedies, then this book is for you!	2004-05-03
US	43420620	R18TA0P7TXACZF	0373484232	723549644	The Stanislaski Sisters: Natasha and Rachel (Silhouette Romance 2-novel book: Taming Natasha, Falling For Rachel)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Heartwarming Stories of an Immigrant Family	This book contains two full-length novels both written by Nora Roberts, and originally published in the early 90's as Silhouette Special Editions. <br />TAMING NATASHA: Natasha Stanislaski is one of four children born to immigrant parents, who escaped from the Ukraine into America, for a chance at a better life. Previously a ballerina for a New York Dance Company, Natasha now owns and runs a toy store in the small town where she resides in West Virginia.  Spencer Kimball, widower and father to a little girl named Freddie, has just moved from New York to this same small town. Spencer is a music composer as well as the new professor at the local college. When Natasha and Spencer meet, they get off on the wrong foot, but when Natasha decides to take a college class in music history, she's surprised to find Spencer is the teacher. They embark on a relationship, but will Natasha be able to move beyond the pain of her past which still haunts her, and offer this man her heart?<br />FALLING FOR RACHEL: Rachel Stanislaski is the sister of Natasha from the previous story. She is an attorney with a strong sense of justice who works as a public defender in New York. Her latest case is representing nineteen-year-old Nick LeBeck, a frightened tough guy whose parents have both died. Now Nick is mixed up with a gang, and taking the rap for an interrupted burglary. Zack Muldoon is Nick's stepbrother, and the only family Nick has left. Two years ago, Zack returned after a stint in the Navy, and will now do whatever he needs to insure Nick doesn't get prison time. Nick is sentenced to a provisionary time period where he will live with Zack, while Rachel keeps contact with Nick, and reports on his behavior. The chemistry between Zack and Rachel is undeniable, but will problems with Nick keep them apart?<br />Both these stories were quite enjoyable, and I had not read them when they were originally published. The Stanislaskis are a very likeable and loving family, one you'd like to be apart of. There is another book called THE STANISLASKI BROTHERS, which contain the stories of Mikhail and Alexi. My favorite of the four stories would be Mikhail's from the BROTHERS book, but all of them are heartwarming, humorous and delightful.	2004-04-30
US	43420620	RO14I5VDINQ19	0380796384	476484446	Sealed with a Kiss	Books	3	13	14	N	N	A Pleasant Reading Experience	As a child, from the first moment Prudence Belmont laid eyes on Gidry Chavis, she fell hopelessly in love. Gidry was her neighbor, and the son of Peer Chavis, Chavistown Texas' most wealthy and prominent citizen. Once Prudence turned nineteen, Gidry gave her a ring and asked her to become his wife. But Gidry was wild and wanted to experience more out of life than his father, the small town, and ultimately Prudence could give him. Against his father's wishes, he boarded a train and left it all behind, including a note of apology to the girl he was to marry. Prudence, who had been publicly open regarding her tender feelings for Gidry, was devastated and humiliated in front of the whole town. Building a wall of pride to hide behind became her method of survival.<br />Now it's eight years later, and Gidry who has been working as a cowboy, has returned to step into his dying father's shoes. The town easily welcomes him back into their fold, except for Prudence who has remained unmarried. Gidry is now remorseful and much wiser regarding what he gave up, and whom he hurt in the process. He comes to realize he still has feelings for Prudence, and wants to win her back. But Prudence won't open herself to the chance of being hurt once again, even though in her heart of hearts, she's still in love with him.<br />After finishing this novel and giving it much thought, I've decided this has been one of the most difficult books for me to rate. This was the first book I've read by Ms. Morsi, and I don't know if this is typical of her work or not, but it was a unique reading experience from the romance genre. First of all, let me say this book is extremely well written, with an interesting enough story that captures the essence of small town Americana built upon well-developed, three-dimensional characters. Having said that, let me explain why I've awarded it three stars (I would actually award it 3 ½ stars if that were possible), instead of four or five. <br />This book could almost pass for a work of general fiction with a romance emphasis, because the other elements of the story such as: the relationship between Prudence's Aunt Hen and Peer,  flower gardening, the secondary character of the kid, Sharpy, and the controversy over electric street lighting, together offset the romance between Gidry and Prudence from being center stage. Since I read this wanting and expecting the romance to be the primary focus, I felt I couldn't give it a higher rating. The only other comment I would like to make is Prudence did seem to hold fast to her pride for a little too long, and I was beginning to get tired of hearing her recite how they had the perfect love, and he ruined it. Anytime she began to think about him again, she would recite some rendition of this thought. <br />As for a recommendation, if you want to read a well written, pleasant work of fiction, with the romance as secondary, this would be a good choice. But if you're expecting the story to focus primarily on an intense, sensual romance between the main couple, this would not be the pick for you.	2004-04-29
US	43420620	R3L5N3QD77COTP	0373484224	853000994	The Stanislaski Brothers (Two Complete Novels: Mikhail and Alex)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Wildly Passionate Artist and A Cynical Cop	This is a two-story anthology, both penned by Nora Roberts. <br />LURING A LADY: Rich, refined, and the epitome of the ice princess, Sydney Hayward has recently taken over her grandfather's business since his death. She now owns the apartment complex where Mikhail Stanislaski lives. As a young child, Mikhail's family escaped the Ukraine for America, and a better life. Mikhail goes to see the building owner, not expecting it to be Sydney. The apartment complex has fallen into disrepair, and the tenet's complaints have been virtually ignored. Once Sydney realizes this is true, she makes the renovation her pet project. Mikhail, who is an artist and part-time contractor, initiates the repairs. The passionate Mikhail cannot deny his attraction to Sydney, despite her cool manner. It doesn't take long for their mutual desire to grow into a once in a lifetime love.<br />CONVINCING ALEX: Bess McNee writes for a daytime soap opera, and she likes to research her character's storylines. This research involves her dressing up as a hooker and standing on a street corner. In the course of the night, she ends up being arrested for solicitation when she's coerced into propositioning a cop, Alex Stanislaski. Bess and Alex are almost instantly attracted to each other, but commitment shy Alex tries to steer clear of getting too involved. Two hookers have been recently murdered, and Alex is investigating the case. Bess befriends a prostitute and inadvertently gets a little too involved with Alex's case, and him. <br />Both these stories were originally published separately by Silhouette in the early to mid 90's. There is also a compilation novel entitled THE STANISLASKI SISTERS, which contain the other two stories. I hadn't read either of these stories when originally published, and I thought they were very enjoyable. The second story, CONVINCING ALEX, had a little more grit since it did involve a murder spree, but I would still classify this book as lighter reading material. Ms. Roberts is a gifted storyteller and you just can't go wrong with her books.	2004-04-28
US	43420620	R5KZ8E0JSXZV6	0380795116	395793792	Baby, I'm Yours	Books	1	8	16	N	N	Flat Story With One-Dimensional Characters	Curvy and beautiful, Catherine MacPherson has always hidden her assets under loose, plain clothing. She's quick, intelligent, stable, dependable and responsible. Her twin sister, Kaylee, who works as a showgirl in Miami, has always been her polar opposite. Kaylee is flashy, flamboyant, impulsive, and always getting herself into trouble. When Kaylee travels across country to Seattle and shows up on Catherine's doorstep unexpectedly, Catherine smells trouble. It seems Kaylee has skipped bail after being arrested for something she didn't do, not to mention she overheard her boss hiring a hit man to eliminate his girlfriend. So not only is the hit man after her, but also bounty hunter, Sam McKade. <br />Sam needs to bring Kaylee back so he'll finally have enough money to buy that fishing lodge for him and his friend. After following Kaylee to Seattle, he snatches her from her sister's home while trying to make a getaway. This infuriating woman insists she not Kaylee, but her twin sister, Catherine. He's heard that one before and he's not buying it.<br />However, it really is Catherine, and she'll do anything she can to delay their progress back to Miami. Along the way, Sam starts considering the possibility he has the wrong sister, because she's a lot smarter, and not nearly as self-centered as he imagined. But more importantly, it's getting increasingly difficult to be professional, and to keep his hands to himself. What will happen when he finds out the truth of her identity, and they finally give in to their mutual attraction?<br />This was my first Susan Anderson read, and I had relatively high expectations because of the rave reviews of this book on Amazon. And I also found it on someone's listmania list as a favorite. Well, I was gravely disappointed, and only made it through chapter eight before I gave up. There just wasn't much to like about this book. The characters were basically one-dimensional, the writing was awkward, and the clichéd story just couldn't hold my attention. I really disliked Catherine's sister, Kaylee, because not only did she meet all specifications for the showgirl stereotype (how boring is that?), but also she was willing to hide and just watch her sister suffer the consequences of her wrongdoing. Then we have the hit man whose name is Jimmie Chains (oh please, how original).<br />I quickly skimmed through the remainder of the book, and overall I can only find two positive things about this novel. It did have a funny moment here and there, when I wasn't rolling my eyes in exasperation, and the couple of love scenes I read were quite erotic. Unfortunately, that certainly isn't enough to torture myself by reading all three hundred seventy-five pages. For a good contemporary romance, try Jennifer Crusie, Susan Elizabeth Phillips or Rachel Gibson. I already own another book by Ms. Anderson, and at this point I'm unsure if I'll read it.	2004-04-26
US	43420620	R2AZA9FVXAGBTY	082177512X	552953250	Say No to Joe? (Visitation, Book 1)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Just Say "No" to this Bland Story	Sexy bad boy Joe Winston avoids commitment at all costs, but still has women lining up to take a tumble in his bed. All except the one woman he wants in his bed. Luna Clark, a psychic assistant, is most definitely attracted to Joe, but she refuses to be just another notch on his well-notched bedpost. Now she's accepted responsibility for two distantly related teenagers, who after their mother died, have no one else. Luna plans to move to the small town where the kids live, but the people of the community are against the kids, so she asks Joe to accompany her to set the interfering townspeople straight. <br />Joe figures spending a lot of time with Luna will convince her to quit resisting his advances, and he can finally scratch the itch he's had for her since their first meeting. <br />I hadn't heard of Lori Foster before picking up this book, and I did so based on the description on the back cover. I was expecting a highly entertaining romantic comedy with a description like: \\"Joe Winston has a routine with women; he exists; they swoon; roll credits.\\" With a back cover that funny, it made since the book would be great. Right? Wrong! I made it to page eighty-seven and couldn't stand to read any more. The characters were one-dimensional caricatures and the writing was awkward. I will admit some of it was funny, but it just wasn't enough to make the story interesting. There was no depth, and by that point in a book, I expect more in-depth characters. Plus, the sexual attraction between Joe and Luna was overdone. All I kept reading was how much he wanted her, and how much she wanted him, he tries to get in her pants, and she just keeps saying no. Over and over and over! I really didn't care what happened to any of the characters. I did skim through to find the first scene where they finally \\"get together\\", and even that was rather dull and disappointing. Save yourself the torture and skip this one!	2004-04-26
US	43420620	R2G5W51PPK9FKJ	0380815575	722221564	The Viscount Who Loved Me (Bridgerton Series, Bk. 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cute and Clever Romantic Comedy	Viscount Anthony Bridgerton, the prize catch of the London season, has remained a most determined bachelor, and consummate rake for years. Now that he's approaching thirty, and sure he will never outlive his father who died at the age of thirty-eight, Anthony decides to marry to provide the prerequisite heir. He's even chosen the lucky bride, Edwina Sheffield, a diamond of the first water this season. Edwina is just the type of woman he needs to marry, one who is beautiful, but the lack of chemistry will never lead to love. His only obstacle is she refuses to marry anyone not approved first by her half-sister, Kate Sheffield. Kate is not about to believe a rake such as Anthony would make a good husband for her sister, so she and Anthony continually end up in a battle of wits and wills.<br />But despite their antagonism, Anthony can't stop thinking of and desiring Kate, even to the point she invades his dreams with erotic images he's finding difficult to ignore. And after growing close enough to Anthony to realize he possesses many fine qualities, Kate knows she can no longer oppose the marriage to her sister. But secretly she can't help wanting him for herself. <br />This is one of the earlier novels in the lengthy Bridgerton family series, and it was my second book by this author. Overall this was a very enjoyable read. Ms. Quinn's wit and clever dialogue is what transforms this otherwise mundane storyline into a funny and unique tale. A couple of my favorite scenes would have to be the game of Pall Mall which was quite humorous, and one particularly memorable line uttered by a secondary character who found Anthony and Kate in the garden: &quot;Lud, girl, he had his mouth on your bubbies, and we all saw it.&quot; <br />I only have a couple of minor complaints, which prevented me from awarding a five star rating. The story behind Kate's irrational fear of thunderstorms was a little too far-fetched to be believable. Secondly, Ms. Quinn has a habit of placing added phrases in parentheses in the middle of her sentences. This isn't too bad until she sometimes adds two or three extra phrases in one sentence, then I don't remember what the original sentence even was, so I have to reread the whole thing. As I mentioned, these really are only minor issues, and the book is definitely worthy of reading.	2004-04-25
US	43420620	R211JMERARYR4R	0515111317	338768845	The Heiress Bride (Bride, Book 3)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Still quite good despite disastrous wedding night	Many women have spotted the man of their dreams across a crowded room, and knew they were gazing at their destiny. Sinjun Sherbrooke was no exception. She saw Colin Kinross, the Scottish earl of Ashburnham, across the crowded dance floor of a London ballroom, and couldn't stop looking at him. He was simply the most beautiful man she had ever seen.<br />At a later London event she searches him out, and this time overhears him telling a friend about his desperate financial situation, and how he needs to marry an heiress to save his home and his people. Sinjun quite boldly walks up to Colin and introduces herself as the heiress that she is, and suggests he could marry her. Colin is not sure how to react to such forwardness and doubts her identity. Upon meeting her brother Douglas, and sister-in-law Alex, he comes to realize she was truthful in her introduction. <br />After someone sends an anonymous letter to Douglas accusing Colin of murdering his first wife, Douglas postpones the wedding until the matter can be investigated. But Sinjun's love for Colin prompts her to run off with him and elope. Her new home is an old castle in Scotland, but many secrets await her arrival, and she'll need every ounce of her strength and determination to weather all the upcoming obstacles. Her biggest obstacle may be keeping her husband with her long enough to win his heart.<br />This is the third installment in the Bride Trilogy, and overall I did enjoy this story. After reading the first two books in this series, I couldn't wait to read about Sinjun, because she was such a great character growing up.<br />She's now nineteen, and during the first few chapters, I really felt I was reading about the spunky, forthright Sinjun who was so endearing in the previous books. Up to a point, the story was funny and refreshing, because she was the aggressor and had chased Colin. Plus the dialogue was witty; mostly due to the outrageous things she would say to him. <br />Then we come to their wedding night, and this is where I began to have some misgivings about this book. I don't usually find myself thinking the hero raped the heroine. I didn't think that in the first two novels, when other reviewers did. However, their wedding night consisted of Colin \\"taking her\\" three times. The first two times were painful for her, but occurred in rapid succession, so I was only mildly bothered by this.  But when he \\"took her\\" the third time, and she was uncooperative and basically crying due to the pain, that was over the top for me.  It was hard to view him as a tender and loving man, after he had basically used her without thought to her feelings, even though he apologized to her several times. Also, Sinjun's character seemed to change after this, and the humor in the story just wasn't that strong anymore. Not to say that I didn't enjoy the rest of the book, but the wedding night disaster remained in my mind throughout the rest of the story.<br />I really don't understand why the heroine has to suffer in the marriage bed. I read romances for enjoyment and escape. It's not enjoyment I feel when I read about forced sex. The other two books of this series, \\"The Sherbrooke Bride\\", and \\"The Hellion Bride\\" also contain forced sex themes, although for me, it was not between the hero and heroine in these instances. The thing is, Ms. Coulter is a talented writer, and unfortunately I am not sure I will read her anymore, past the Scottish Bride, which I've already bought. <br />I only deducted one star from my rating due to the forced sex issue, because the remainder of the story is quite good. I would still recommend this book, as long as you're aware of, and can get past the wedding night, to enjoy the rest of the story.	2004-04-23
US	43420620	R8G8CEB87DEGP	0312962770	749011246	Once Upon A Scandal (Once Upon Scandal)	Books	1	26	32	N	N	Frustrating Use of Unappealing Plot Devices	Seven years ago, Lady Emma's predicament led her to a desperate decision, to insure a hasty marriage to the smitten Lucas Coulter, the Marquess of Wortham. But on their wedding night, when he discovered she was not the innocent he thought, he abandoned her, and began traveling the world. Lady Emma, who is without funds, supports her and her daughter by breaking into London homes to take jewels from the aristocracy who have wronged her family. <br />Lucas has now returned from his travels, but only means to stay in London until his business is concluded. Even though he no longer harbors any tender feelings for Emma, Lucas has no intention of seeing his estranged wife. But Emma gains entry into his house, and finds him despite his efforts at avoidance. He finds he still desires her as much, if not more than before. When he catches her in the act of burglary, he strikes a most unorthodox bargain. She must live with him, and give him an heir, or he'll turn her over to the authorities. Since Emma has little choice in the matter, she complies, but their problems are just beginning, because Lucas is unaware of the ugly secret she has told no one.<br />First of all, this was the first book I've tried by this author, and I didn't even make it halfway through before I gave up on it. Upon reading the back cover, I was intrigued by the fact the heroine steals jewels from the nobles, a unique storyline. But the reason she steals is because her grandfather gambles away the only money they have, so she breaks into the homes of his opponents, and steals back just enough to cover his losses. Perhaps grandfather needs some rehab treatment. Okay, that probably wasn't even heard of then, but it's a weak reason for her theft.<br />Unfortunately, there were just too many overused and utterly frustrating plot devices used in this story. The whole scenario is based on a misunderstanding, one of my least favorite premises. And in this case, a rather unbelievable one. She was pregnant when they married, and this is what he discovers on their wedding night. When he inquires who fathered the child, she makes a flippant comment of how she doesn't know, because it could be one of many possibilities. She supposedly said this to see if he would really believe that of her, and guess what, he does. So she says nothing more, and he doesn't ask any more questions, and this has gone on for seven years! We find out early on in the book that the baby was conceived out of rape.<br />Then we have the fact Lucas has a mistress, and even after he sees Emma upon returning to London, he sleeps with his mistress. I don't want to read about the main characters being with anyone else when they're in a relationship with each other. Lucas was just too cold, callus, and spiteful toward Emma as well. In fact, he refers to her by a profane name twice in the few chapters I read. I like it when the main characters have an antagonistic relationship, but not when it verges on cruelty.<br />In summary, I will try another book by this author, because I believe she possess writing ability. Hopefully, the next story I pick will be more original. Obviously, I don't recommend reading this one.	2004-04-23
US	43420620	R38ZYXUM54GACD	0380794470	925562381	Dream a Little Dream	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This Dream Was Simply Wonderful	Rachel Stone's bad luck reached its pinnacle the moment her car stalled in front of the Pride of Carolina drive-in. Rachel is the widow of G. Dwayne Snopes, the crooked televangelist who died while fleeing Salvation, North Carolina with millions of dollars donated to his church. With only nine dollars in her pocket, and a few meager possessions, Rachel's old car is now the home for herself and her five-year-old son. She's returning to the town whose inhabitants can't stand the sight of her. But Rachel has a child to care for, and she will survive no matter how insurmountable the obstacle. <br />The drive-in is now owned and being renovated by Gabe Bonner, a member of the town's most prominent family. Gabe's life is empty and overflowing with the pain of survival, after losing his wife and child in an auto accident two years prior. He doesn't want anything to do with this strong-willed woman, and her son who triggers painful memories, but he finds himself unable to abandon them. <br />What happens when you combine a determined woman who has lost her faith in God, but will survive at all costs, with a miserable man who has all but given up on life? <br />This is the fourth installment in the Chicago Stars/Bonner Brothers series, and serves as another sparkling example of this author's immense talent as a master storyteller. I have quickly become a most devoted fan of Ms. Phillips work. This is a beautifully written, inspirational story of love, forgiveness, and redemption. Thank goodness SEP injects a healthy dose of humor throughout, because the story certainly deals with some heavy issues with these two troubled souls. A great deal of the humor came from the secondary love story between Gabe's minister brother, Ethan, and his secretary who has been infatuated with him for years. I found myself frequently laughing out loud at the three voices of God that speak to Ethan. With a compelling story involving well-defined characters, steamy love scenes, and lighthearted moments, this is a must read! In fact, this whole series is a must read!<br />I wanted to add a footnote to correct an error in a previous review. This series, to my knowledge, consists of five books and their order is: IT HAD TO BE YOU, HEAVEN TEXAS, NOBODY'S BABY BUT MINE, DREAM A LITTLE DREAM, and THIS HEART OF MINE.	2004-04-22
US	43420620	RA6ILEACJEYXZ	0061084883	839929077	A Knight to Remember: Good Knights #2	Books	4	11	12	N	N	The Return of Her First Love	After her second husband was hung for treason, Lady Edlyn and her two sons were cast out of their home with little more than the clothes on the backs. Having nowhere else to go, they seek shelter at the convent she had financially assisted.<br />Edlyn, a skilled herbalist, now treats the battle wounds of the men the nuns nurse back to health. But on one of her trips to the dispensary, Edlyn discovers a critically injured knight, accompanied by his manservant who insists she tend his master's wounds in secret. She remembers the knight as Hugh de Florisoun, the love of her girlhood. A lot has happened to Edlyn since then at the hands of men, and she has become cynical regarding their capacity for love and honor. She brings Hugh back from the brink of death with her healing skills, and the declaration of her past love. Hugh, who has just been made an earl and given an estate by the prince, wishes to repay his debt to her by insisting they marry. Reluctantly, Edlyn becomes his bride, and agrees to run his household and submit to his passion, but withholds her heart. Hugh has never backed down nor lost a battle, and he's determined to emerge the victor in this also.  <br />This is the sequel to ONCE A KNIGHT where we were first introduced to Lady Edlyn and Hugh de Florisoun. While this isn't one of my favorites by Ms. Dodd, it was still a very good story and definitely worth the read. The humor in this book was wonderful. My favorite scene was when Hugh found Edlyn after she had been kidnapped shortly after their marriage. I still laugh when I think about it. The secondary character of Richard also added some good moments as well. <br />I think my only two complaints would be Edlyn came across as being rather cold to me, which was understandable considering her history. However, it seemed like it took forever for her to realize and admit her love for Hugh, even to herself. And at the end, she still seemed a little too reserved. The other problem was even though I did believe they had fallen in love, I didn't feel the intensity of their passion for each other, at least not as strong as I have in most of Ms. Dodd's other novels. Again, that may relate back to my feeling Edlyn was too reserved for too long. But despite those couple of issues, this story still deserves a four star rating, and I would definitely recommend it.	2004-04-20
US	43420620	R2JLM6CO5YDV6P	0373218192	514518766	Engaging The Enemy	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Kissing Cousins and Love Thy Neighbor	This is a two-story anthology, both written by Nora Roberts. <br />A WILL AND A WAY:  Pandora McVie and Michael Donahue are cousins, if only by marriage. They both adored their Uncle Jolley, but their relationship with each other has always been antagonistic. Uncle Jolley had played matchmaker between them before and failed, but now he's trying again, from the great beyond. His estate is worth one hundred fifty million dollars, to be split equally between Pandora and Michael, but there's a catch. They have to move into his mansion in the Catskills and live there together for six months. If they fail, the inheritance reverts to their shallow and greedy family members. Their family, of course, conspires and uses trickery to drive them out.<br />BOUNDARY LINES:  Jillian Baron inherited her Montana cattle ranch from her grandfather, and works tirelessly to keep it functioning at optimum level. The Barons have been feuding for generations with the neighboring ranch owners, the Murdocks. Aaron Murdock has just recently returned to assist his father with the running of the Double M. The chemistry between Jillian and Aaron is unmistakable, but someone is stealing cattle from Jillian, and all signs point to the Murdocks. <br />These stories were originally published separately as Silhouette Intimate Moments back in the mid 80's. I enjoyed both, and felt they each had pretty much stood the test of time. The first story felt only slightly dated. If you didn't read them when originally published, they would serve well for good, light summer reading. Separately, I would rate the first story 3 ½ stars, and the second one 4 ½ stars. Ms. Roberts does a good job portraying these volatile romances, a type I'm quite partial to reading.	2004-04-19
US	43420620	R146TT9JOBG1GS	0553569406	594856539	Mistress	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Smart, Sexy and Funny!	Previously a schoolmistress, Iphiginia Bright has spent the last year fulfilling a dream by touring the classical ruins of Italy and Greece. Upon her return to England, she discovers that a notorious blackmailer, who is taking advantage of members of the ton, is now harassing her beloved Aunt Zoe. In an attempt to assist her aunt, Iphiginia decides to flush out the blackmailer by posing as a widow, and the paramour of Marcus Cloud, Earl of Masters. Marcus has a well-earned reputation as a master of seduction among the ladies, but Iphiginia believes him to be dead by the hand of the blackmailer. <br />Iphiginia takes London by storm, enchanting everyone she meets, and manages to collect a whole host of admirers. She even captures the attention of a certain man, who is very much alive at his country estate, and much to her surprise, Marcus makes an appearance at a ball to meet his newest mistress. She explains her reason for the deception, and although he's suspicious of her, he decides to play along. They together conduct an investigation, but Marcus has ulterior motives for not exposing her lie. He finds Iphiginia quite the enchantress, and sets out to make her his mistress in earnest, although he becomes suspicious whether there's been a Mr. Bright. Marcus has three rules he lives by: he steers clear of virgins, has vowed never to remarry, and he doesn't talk about his past. Iphiginia will end up testing all three of his rules, and after all, rules are made to be broken.<br />I have read a total of four books by this author, and this one remains my favorite. Her heroines tend to be very intelligent women, who are involved in some type of scientific study or intellectual endeavors, which is a unique angle in a historical romance. The only thing is, sometimes too much time is spent on the studies and endeavors, and the romance portion suffers. That is not true here. I felt this was an interesting, smart, sexy, and hilarious story with witty dialogue. There is a memorable scene that takes place in a hall of naughty statuary, which was quite steamy and funny at the same time. And who can forget \\"Dr. Hardstaff's Museum of the Goddesses of Manly Vigor\\"? To put that name on an establishment is too funny! This book is not to be missed!	2004-04-18
US	43420620	R22S3CSLJCG653	0380819627	424656513	In My Wildest Dreams (Governess Brides, Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sabrina could only Dream of being this Wild!	Up until four years ago, Celeste Milford had been living at Blythe Hall with her gardener father, and dreaming of the day she would marry Ellery Throckmorton. She was a teenager at the time, and Ellery, who didn't really know she was alive, was the rich, handsome, and wild younger son of the estate. Then it was suggested that she attend the Distinguished Academy of Governesses, and since she wasn't given much choice, she complied. During her time away, she has traveled to many places in the world, become poised and self-assured, and even gained knowledge of political affairs, while filling a position as governess for the children of a Russian ambassador. <br />Now she has returned to Blythe Hall at the request of Ellery's eldest brother, Garrick Throckmorton, to care for the widower's child and his niece. Upon arrival, Ellery is enthralled with the beautiful Celeste, whom he doesn't recognize. But he is betrothed to Lady Hyacinth, and people are arriving presently for the engagement festivities. Celeste's feelings for Ellery have not changed, and she sees this as her opportunity to win the man she's always wanted. <br />Alas, Garrick is determined the wild and unpredictable Ellery settle down with the heiress he's engaged to, and he'll do whatever it takes to insure that happens. Therefore, Garrick plans to monopolize Celeste's time and her affections. What he doesn't count on is the overwhelming passion he ends up feeling for her, which threatens the strict self-control he has adopted for years. Celeste is confused by Garrick's attentions, because she has always viewed him as Ellery's levelheaded, boring older brother. Now her heart races in his presence, and she can't stop thinking about him. Garrick knows he must maintain composure, if he is to discover whom in his organization is leaking information to the spies they are trying to infiltrate. <br />This was one of the first books I read by Ms. Dodd, and I immediately recognized the vast similarities to \\"Sabrina\\", one of my favorite movies (the original). Even though so much is the same, Ms. Dodd did make it her own, and with writing this excellent, who really cares? I greatly enjoyed reading it to the point I could hardly put in down, and that's why I read in the first place. This was a much more lighthearted story than some of the previous Governess Bride entries, and I welcomed that change. Ms. Dodd's trademark humor was also present here in spades, and the love scenes were page-burners. This book remains on my keeper shelf, where it's most likely to stay. A definite must read!	2004-04-17
US	43420620	R1TMZ76NOYM8DK	0380811995	926249134	Rules of Attraction (Governess Brides, Book 3)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Governess Saga Continues	After nine years as proprietress of The Distinguished Academy of Governesses, Miss Hannah Setterington, has sold the establishment in favor of delving into her unknown roots. But first, she has accepted one last post as companion to the elderly aunt of the Earl of Raeburn. She knows little about her new employer, except he is newly titled, and rumored to have murdered his wife, a fact Hannah feels has most likely been fabricated. Arriving at Castle Raeburn late in the evening during a storm, the mysterious lord insists she attend him immediately. Hannah is shocked to discover she intimately knows Lord Raeburn. His name is actually Dougald Pippard, the man she loved, and ran away from nine years ago. <br />Dougald has been diligently searching for Hannah all these years, and her arrival at his home was painstakingly planned, out of anger and his need for revenge. He has just the ammunition to force her into staying. He can arrange for her to meet her deceased father's parents, something she longs for. Their battle of passion and will rages out of control, but soon their attention is diverted to dangerous occurrences at the castle. The previous two earls were each killed in an accident that took place shortly after coming into the title. Now Dougald has been shot at, and attacked, so it would appear he is next to be eliminated. Therefore, he and Hannah will need to solve the mystery and capture the culprit, before they can finally settle their differences, and discover if their future lies together. <br />This is the third installment in the Governess Bride Series, and while this particular story is probably my least favorite of the six, its still very good and well worth reading. <br />I found it somewhat difficult to like the character of Dougald in the beginning of the book, since he was cold and bent on revenge at that point. Of course, he did thaw out and redeem himself, but he was more of a dark and brooding type hero. Hannah was the typical Dodd heroine I enjoy- intelligent, independent and pragmatic. The love scenes were quite sensual, and the mystery subplot was engrossing and very well done. The humor Ms. Dodd does so well was present, although more subdued in this story. Dougald's aunt, and the assorted elderly ladies who also live in the castle, supplied the majority of the fun and witty dialogue. They could all be quite outrageous at times. <br />Ms. Dodd is one of the few authors I buy sight unseen. For those who would like to know the series order, it is as follows: RULES OF SURRENDER, RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, RULES OF ATTRACTION, IN MY WILDEST DREAMS, LOST IN YOUR ARMS, and MY FAVORITE BRIDE.	2004-04-16
US	43420620	R2TFK9J9SKYTWS	0671684124	671383184	The Heart's Haven	Books	4	16	17	N	N	San Francisco Fire, Clipper Ships and Passion...	Hallie Fredriksen's father was lost at sea. To her great surprise, he had named his whaling agent friend, Kit Howland, as guardian of her and her younger siblings. Three years ago, Hallie was infatuated with Kit, and clumsily poured hot chowder in his lap. In her embarrassment, she hasn't been able to face him since. Now she will be forced to see him, and when she does, the familiar stirrings return. <br />This time, however, her feelings are reciprocated, because Kit can't keep his hands off the beautifully grown up Hallie. Betrayed in love by his now deceased wife, he fights his desire for Hallie, sensing the danger she represents to his hardened heart. Fate intervenes, and they have no choice but to marry. Hallie will not only have to battle to melt her husband's heart, but a threat to their family puts their lives in peril. <br />This was an early novel by Ms. Barnett, and one of the first books of hers I read. It was quite good, but looking back I can see tremendous growth in her writing since this. Kit's reason for keeping Hallie at bay is a little clichéd, but excellent writing, interesting characters, and the added humor ultimately make the story work. <br />If you haven't read anything by Ms. Barnett, I wouldn't recommend beginning with this one. Instead, try SURRENDER A DREAM, or BEWITCHING and its sequel DREAMING, all of which represent some of her best work. If you're already a fan of this author, then this book is worth the read.	2004-04-16
US	43420620	R25APOXG19LEX	0505523442	214230018	Prince Charming (Time of Your Life)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	A Big Disappointment	Josephine Evans is having a bad day. Actually, she's having a bad life. Her last living relative, Aunt Prudie, died six weeks ago leaving enormous debt, a failing etiquette school, and a mansion mortgaged to the hilt. Now, to top things off, Josephine just ran into the back of a pickup truck, totaling her Mercedes. She doesn't even have enough money for cab fare back home. <br />Tugboat captain, Cole Dumanski, is desperately seeking a short-order cook for his upcoming thirty-day stint down the Mississippi. He's not having any luck finding one, and the rest of his day has put him in a bad mood as well. Now some prim socialite has run into the back of his new truck, and is claiming to have money difficulties and no insurance. <br />Josephine finds Cole one of the most crass, foul-mouthed, ill mannered, and devastatingly handsome men she's run across. With no money in her purse, she's forced to ask him for a ride home. Once there, they discover her home has been sealed by the police to start foreclosure proceedings. Not wanting to leave her homeless, Cole offers her the cook position onboard his boat. Josephine surmises there's just one problem with accepting the job, she can't even boil an egg. With a cookbook, she figures she can learn, and it'll have to be quickly.<br />Can an ill-bred tugboat captain with a huge chip on his shoulder fall in love with a lonely, sheltered, and prim socialite who lied to get her job?<br />Unfortunately, while reading this book, my response to this question became: And do I really care?<br />The first few chapters were pretty good, and there were some humorous moments. Making the hero a tugboat captain, and having most of the story take place on the Mississippi River was original. But the originality stopped there. Otherwise, the story was trite and full of problems. I could probably surpass my word limit describing all of them. Instead, I'll mention the most blatant and irritating ones that won't give away too much of the overdone plot. <br />First of all, Cole was wronged by a couple of rich kids as a teenager, and fifteen years later he still carries a great deal of anger about this. In fact, he hatches a plan for revenge, which is immature and unrealistic, and didn't even seem in line with his character. Plus, this silly revenge plot became the main reason Josephine and him weren't together. When it came time to disembark the boat, and Cole to carry out his plan, Josephine decided to act like their time together meant nothing and he wasn't good enough for her. By making him angry, instead of guilty, she thought she was doing him a favor, because he would get over the anger sooner. Now, let's see...he's carried anger with him over another incident for fifteen years, so why would she think anger would be better?! Plus, I hate this type of plot element when one of them decides to say awful things to drive the other away, \\"for their own good\\".<br />Josephine has unresolved issues of her own, and Cole consoles her after a recurring nightmare, which was really nice. And his words of encouragement force her to see her mistakes in their true light, and after all these years, that's all it took for her to make an overnight change to stop being fearful of life. Totally unrealistic! Her change should have been gradual over the course of the story, not overnight! The last seventy pages of this book were excruciating to get through, but with only that much left to read, I committed myself to finish it. A root canal would have been more pleasant.<br />I picked up this book after reading the rave reviews on Amazon, and this was my first read by this author. Thank goodness I bought it used, although since it's out of print that would be the only way to buy it. I obviously don't recommend reading this, and I'm not sure I'll be reading anything else by this author. For a great contemporary romance with humor, I would recommend: Susan Elizabeth Phillips, Rachel Gibson and Jennifer Crusie.	2004-04-15
US	43420620	R2WL2BIC6JBY1U	0380814390	855303202	Lola Carlyle Reveals All	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Max is One of the Sexiest Heroes Ever!	Unfortunately, Lola Carlyle didn't mean to reveal it all, but during a weak moment with her fiancé, she allowed him to snap some nude pictures of her. Even though she's now an ex-supermodel, she's still a very recognizable face. Cashing in on her fame, her now ex-fiancé exploits Lola by peddling her pictures on the Internet.  Tired of the gossip surrounding the photos, she takes a vacation and goes into hiding in the Bahamas. Alone aboard a yacht with her little dog, Baby Doll, a man on the run commandeers Lola and the vessel.<br />Max Zamora works for the government in a top-secret capacity, and his mission has just gone completely wrong, forcing him to flee for his life from a drug lord. Max has seen Lola before in magazines, and on billboards, wearing next to nothing. Lola and her little dog are less than thrilled to be kidnapped by some madman claiming he's one of the good guys. Max finds Lola beautiful, desirable, and a huge pain in the backside. And that goes double for her little dog with the Napoleon complex. Just when Max believes his situation couldn't get any worse, Lola accidentally torches part of the boat, leaving them to drift in the water without a motor. Alone together for several days struggling through life and death situations, they find it difficult to keep their hands off each other. And when they do give in, it may be impossible to ever let go. <br />I really didn't know what to expect when I picked up this book to read. The premise sounded intriguing, since I liked the idea of the couple being stranded alone on a boat. I've read a couple of other books by Ms. Gibson and loved both of them, but after reading some of the reviews on Amazon for this book, I just wasn't sure. Well, I'm now sure I loved this book! I loved the character of Max, the bad boy doing good guy deeds. And I liked Lola as well. Even though her description sounded like physical perfection, she had body image issues, which led to a disorder she now controls after years of treatment. I was a little skeptical of her judgment in allowing a man to take nude photos of her, but her illness at the time could easily account for her lapse. She was a strong and likeable heroine. There were some real funny moments here as well, especially between Max and the dog, Baby Doll. The love scenes were intensely erotic. Overall, it was a sexy, smart and fun read!	2004-04-15
US	43420620	R2SN13J3UR0T85	0671521438	11721394	Imagine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Cute, Funny and Totally Original!	Maggie Smith, a wealthy San Francisco attorney, is sent on vacation to the South Seas by her father. Hank Wyatt has just escaped from a maximum-security prison, where he has served several years of a life sentence for a murder he didn't commit. Hank stows away aboard the ship Maggie is sailing on, both unaware in a few hours they will be fighting for their very lives. They sail into a raging storm, the ship's boiler blows, and Hank saves the lives of Maggie, three orphaned children, and a goat. Floating in a life raft, they eventually make landfall on a deserted tropical island. Hank, who is arrogant, self-centered and cynical, knows how to survive. And since he's the man, it's his place to think, be in control, and he's undoubtedly always right. So when they set up a temporary life and routine on the island, they disagree on everything. Maggie is delegated responsibility for cooking and childcare, two things she knows nothing about. Consequently she burns the food, and occasionally loses a child. <br />Hank and Maggie fight their growing attraction for each other, while trying to survive. One of the children stumbles upon an actual genie in the bottle, and is granted the requisite three wishes. Eventually they are rescued, but what will happen when they all return to civilization?<br />Ms. Barnett never ceases to amaze me with her wonderful stories, and this was no exception. This read was sweet, endearing, and just pure fun!  Maggie and Hank couldn't be more polar opposites, but they of course find common ground to fall in love. Maggie was an interesting heroine - strong, independent, and progressive for the late 1800's. In the beginning, Hank was an intriguing hero, but not all that likeable. However, he began to soften and we saw him ultimately change for the better. The kids added an extra dimension to the story making them more of a family, and Muddy the genie was also a cute addition. The humor this author is so talented at adding to her stories was definitely here as well. This is a keeper, and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend reading it!	2004-04-14
US	43420620	R1L0B4UJYR3SQY	0060541741	731721131	Guilty Pleasures (Guilty Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Sweet Fairy Tale Satisfies the Hopeless Romantic	Prim and plain, Daphne Wade has spent her life traveling with her father around the world, assisting him in the work he was renowned for, restoring ancient antiquities. After her father's death, she was able to secure a position in England with Anthony Courtland, Duke of Tremore, restoring the priceless Roman mosaics and antiquities excavated from a site on his estate. Anthony is quite passionate about the artifacts they are recovering, and works daily at the site himself. The heat often forces him to remove his shirt during his labor. Daphne finds she can't help but spy on him during these times, because he looks like a Greek statue come to life. It's her one guilty pleasure.<br />She's secretly in love with him, and he doesn't know she's alive beyond her consummate skill at restoration. In his presence, she becomes shy and tongue-tied. Anthony's sister, Viola, comes to visit and befriends Daphne. It doesn't take long for her to realize Daphne's in love with her brother, and she decides to do a little matchmaking. Viola discusses with Anthony her plan to sponsor Daphne for a London season, so she can make social contacts, and meet eligible young men. Anthony claims it's a lost cause, because Daphne has no feminine appeal. Little does he know, she's on the other side of the door during this conversation, and hears his comments. Daphne's pain and anger causes her to emerge from her shell, and Anthony is shocked by the woman he's now beginning to take notice of. He doesn't want to lose her skills for his project, but he comes to realize in trying to keep her employed with him, his thoughts of her go way beyond what he hired her for. In the end, he'll openly pursue, and do anything to convince her to stay with him in an entirely different capacity. <br />When I found this book, I was unfamiliar with this author, but the premise sounded interesting, and one of my favorite authors had a recommendation on the cover. I was definitely not disappointed! This was such a beautiful, romantic, and touching love story that I stayed up way too late reading it. I just couldn't put it down. The archeological angle was a unique plot element, and the fact the whole story was about the two main characters works well here. No other storyline or intrigue was needed. Even though it was basically an ugly duckling transforming into a beautiful swan type of story, it was unique because the change was mostly in the eyes of the beholder. He fell in love with her because he began looking at her differently, not because she made outward physical changes. Needless to say, I definitely recommend this book, and will be looking for this author's backlist titles. I'm also hoping Ms. Guhrke will write the story of Dylan Moore, Anthony's outrageous rogue of a friend introduced here. I would love to know more about him!	2004-04-14
US	43420620	R1NZQKMYEWJPQ0	0380811979	629386800	Rules of Surrender (Governess Brides, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	It all began with a delightful Surrender�	Three young, well bred, but impoverished young women, decide to take their future in their own hands by starting the Distinguished Academy of Governesses. The first client is Lady Adorna, who wishes to hire a governess for her two young grandchildren.<br />Lady Charlotte Dalrumple knows it will be a challenge to teach her young charges how to behave in English society, but she's up to the task. However, she's not so sure when she meets their handsome, uncivilized father, Viscount Wynter Ruskin. As a teenager, Wynter left England to experience adventure, and has been living in the Far East until recently.<br />Charlotte then discovers Adorna not only wants her to instruct the children, but tutor their unruly father as well. For in a short time, the Queen will be coming to visit, and the family will be presented. Wynter goes along with Charlotte's lessons in manners. But only because he needs a wife, and sees she will fill the role nicely. The only lesson he's actually interested in, is tutoring Charlotte in the art of passion, and his behavior toward her is shocking to say the least. In the end, Charlotte may teach him the ultimate lesson...how to love her with his heart. <br />This is the first entry in the Governess Bride series, and quite an enjoyable read. I especially liked the uncivilized Wynter, who frequently did the shockingly unexpected. Charlotte was also quite nice as the typical Dodd heroine I love - intelligent, independent, and pragmatic. They complimented each other nicely. Overall, this is a fun,(...) humorous romp, which sits in a place of honor on my keeper shelf, along with the rest of this wonderful series. Definitely recommend reading this one!	2004-04-13
US	43420620	RHQM167ZMT38H	0380818329	716131497	The Wedding Wager	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Mary wins The Stud�and a horse too�	Mary Gates wants this stud in her stables. The Stud is a prime piece of horseflesh up for auction in her hometown of Lyford Meadows. The entire town's male population will be in attendance to witness who places the winning bid.  Mary believes this horse is just what she needs to bring her stables back to full operating glory of the past. The town views Mary's independent and willful behavior as quite eccentric, including her normal attire of donning men's breeches. And her desire to win the horse may also have something to do with her constant battles with her neighbor and rival, Tye Barlow. <br />Tye is just as determined to win, because it would secure his stable's future as well. And he believes he has a good shot with the amount of money he's willing to bid. In the end, Mary outbids him but he's suspicious, because he knows there's no way she could own that kind of capital. Mary's winning bid is well beyond her means, but she makes up a fictitious, wealthy fiancé, and then convinces the seller she needs a little time to make her payment. The independent Mary, who never intended to settle down, sets out for London and the marriage mart to snag herself a rich husband. Tye discovers where she's gone, and follows with the intention to foil any possibility of her paying for the horse.<br />Their complicated history resurfaces, as well as their desire for each other, which of course has always been there in the form of a battle of wills. Together, they may discover the real prize isn't the horse, but their love for each other.<br />I've read three or four novels by Maxwell, and this is my favorite so far.  I enjoy romances that involve the battle of wills, which is done well here. Although, I did think Mary's obstinance over her independence did go on a little too long, but that's only a minor issue. Even though there's not much new here for a romance story, I still found it refreshing and the witty dialogue probably had a lot to do with that. Mary and Tye were bothheadstrong characters and well matched for each other. There's nothing heavy-duty about this story, it's a nice light, recommended read.	2004-04-13
US	43420620	RCAO10GNN0U8F	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Good� but not her best work�	Seven years ago, under suspicious circumstances, Hope Prescott's parents disappeared and were declared dead. Hope was sixteen at the time with three younger siblings. All the siblings were separated and put in foster care homes across the country. Now Hope attends college, and works for an answering service to fund her ongoing search for her brother and sisters. <br />Boston CEO, Zack Givens, who takes over other companies, is known for his cold, calculating and ruthless demeanor. He's also a technophobe. His secretary sets him up with an answering service to take his calls. Hope is the first person he speaks to when checking his messages, and he's immediately drawn to her sultry voice. Hope doesn't believe for a minute that Zack would lower himself to retrieve his own messages, so she believes him to be the butler. He decides to continue the charade, even when she shows up unannounced at his home. Once Zack realizes Hope's beauty goes further than her voice, he's determined to make her his mistress. Noting she dresses in rather worn clothing, he decides to shower her with what his money can buy, while she's warming his bed. <br />After things heat up between them, Hope is mistakenly accused of embezzling and arrested. But Zack's distrusting nature kicks in and he doesn't initially believe in her innocence. Realizing his mistake, he plans to set things straight, but before he can do this, Hope is kidnapped by a crime lord. Will Zack ever be able to convince Hope he now believes in her, especially after his deception?<br />I believe this may be Ms. Dodd's first foray into contemporary romance. She did have a very early book called \\"The Lady in Black\\", which I haven't read, but it may have been a contemporary. <br />I don't have overwhelming feelings about this story one way or the other, which is unusual, because I'm a big fan of this author's work. It started off really well, and I enjoyed the character of Hope and the secondary characters. The love scenes were quite sensual, which I've come to expect in her stories. My two problems were with Zack's character, and the kidnapping by the crime lord with subsequent rescue. Zack's decision to make Hope his mistress was a little bothersome to me, especially since his plan to share his wealth felt like he was making her his personal prostitute. Also, it was difficult to read his treatment of her when he thought she was after his money, even though he had deceived her. The kidnapping and rescue was not really funny to me, but rather silly and awkward. It just didn't flow with the rest of the story.<br />I believe this is the first book of a new series, and even though this wasn't her best work, in Ms. Dodd I trust. I have every confidence the next story will be better, and I will keep reading her books.	2004-04-13
US	43420620	RO01QSHXRAD54	0843948108	674323172	The Deed (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Funny Stuff weaved with an otherwise stale plot...	Lord Fulk, the Duke of Eberhart, married Lady Emmalene two years ago, but had not seen fit to consummate their marriage. Finally Emma requested an audience with the King to discuss this delicate matter. The King issued a command that Lord Fulk do his duty, but he died on his way home to do the deed.  Emma is then caught in the middle of a struggle for her husband's title and wealth, prompting the King to promise her hand to a landless knight, Amaury de Aneford. On their wedding night, it doesn't take long for Amaury to discover just how naïve his widowed virgin wife is. Their wedding also doesn't stop his rival from plotting to gain Amaury's new wealth, and bride, by whatever means necessary.  <br />Can a woman so naïve of the marriage bed, and a man without the first inclination of how to treat his wife, find love and happiness in their life together?<br />This is the first book I've read by this author, and I have mixed feelings about it. First of all, parts of the story were really funny and I love that particular element in a romance. However, while I found the characters enjoyable for the most part, I did have some difficulty swallowing the extent of Emma and Amaury's deficiencies. There were a couple of instances where I thought, how could Emma be that naïve about men? She didn't know what a penis was? I realize the time period was different. But she had a father, has always been very close to her male cousin, and almost two hundred servants live with her, yet she never overheard any talk of male anatomy? Amaury's close friend Blake obviously knows how to treat women, and yet Amaury never before witnessed this? Obviously if they were knowledgeable of these things, it would've spoiled the humor. I'm just saying the extent of their ignorance seemed quite unlikely. <br />The intrigue plot was okay, but rather unimaginative. I also grew tired of hordes of men attacking Amaury every time he set foot out of the castle walls. In addition, I really didn't get a strong feeling of them belonging together. In other words, I didn't \\"feel the love\\".  Having said all that, the humor factor was strong enough for me to award my three star rating and try another book by this author. As I understand it, this was her first published novel, and I do see her potential.	2004-04-04
US	43420620	R7SX7XB6UTXMF	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nothing Special...	Amanda Cynster, along with her twin sister Amelia, have been searching London ballrooms for six years looking for their perfect match. Each is bored with the uninteresting prospects, and both have decided to take matters into their own hands. <br />Amanda has concluded there are suitable husbands who circulate along the fringes of the ton, and do not attend polite society's functions. So she sets out to explore places where young ladies are never to go, but interesting men would frequent. One night she sneaks out to a notorious gaming hell looking for just such a man, and quickly discovers she's in over her head. Unexpectedly, a man comes to her rescue. Martin Fulbridge, earl of Dexter, is tall, dark, and mysterious, and just the type of man she is searching for. Wrongly accused of murder and banished from England by his father, Martin has just recently returned from living abroad for the past ten years. Since his return, he has avoided the social activities of the respectable. <br />Martin has no intention of courting the appealing but forbidden Amanda, nevertheless, he finds himself acting as her protector. Amanda is determined to experience adventure by frequenting scandalous venues no young lady should be attending. Eventually Martin succumbs to his growing desire for Amanda, then insists they marry. She will settle for no less than love, thus his honor-bound pursuit of her begins. Ultimately, their future together can only be secured by solving the ten-year old murder mystery.<br />This was my second read by this author, as well as my second Cynster novel. I felt this particular book was okay, but not great. As for the main characters, I did like Martin who seemed quite sexy and mysterious, if not a little emotionally deficient. Amanda was okay, but just a little too flawless to be real. The intrigue plot did add some interest, although it was rather obvious who the culprit was. The love scenes were erotic and numerous. Overall, it was just an average read forme. As for a recommendation, if you're a Laurens and Cynster series fan, then you'll probably want to read it, otherwise, I'd skip it.	2004-04-03
US	43420620	R3VI6W0DIIHGT5	0380776839	687083377	It Had to Be You (Chicago Stars)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"You" Marked the Beginning of it All	Phoebe Somerville, a voluptuous blonde with a pin-up girl body, has just inherited the Chicago Stars professional football team from her cold and callous father. A sports team is the last thing this New York lady wants, plus she sees it as manipulation from the grave, by her father, to coerce her into doing as he wishes. His age-old demand for her to do something meaningful with her life, and quit hanging out with homosexual men. In order to remain owner of the team, the Stars have to win the Super Bowl, a long shot at best. So she decides to do nothing, until the team's sexy and aggressive head coach, Dan Calebow, pays her a visit. Nothing is getting done because Phoebe isn't showing up to work. The last thing Dan wants is some blonde bimbo to own and run the team, but he has no choice at present. But Phoebe is not what she seems. Her oversexed demeanor is a cover for the trauma of her past. And Dan begins to realize there's a brain with that body, and he can't help desiring both. <br />This is the book that started it all - the first installment in the Chicago Stars/Bonner Brothers series. We are introduced here to Phoebe's sister, Molly Somerville, a troubled teen at this point, who is the subject of the last book, \\"This Heart of Mine\\". Also we are introduced to my favorite hero ever, Bobby Tom Denton, whose story is the next (and best) in the series, \\"Heaven, Texas\\".<br />Once again, Ms. Phillips builds multi-layered characters that are real people with real problems. She is a master at doing this. I especially found the character of Phoebe vastly interesting. It is a sexy, fast-paced story laced with humor. Even though I loved Phoebe's character, her history of trauma bothered me. The screening of details written was handled well, and obviously that occurrence helped form her character, but I just don't like reading about this kind of thing. Plus the slimeball ultimately got away with it. The climatic ending was also a little over the top for me, and seemed a mite far-fetched.  I'll refrain from further explanation, since it would ruin it for those who haven't read the book yet. I haven't been reading these in order, so I believe I read this book third. I have yet to read, \\"Dream a Little Dream\\", but out of the rest, this is probably my least favorite. Don't get me wrong, this book is still very good and definitely worth reading!<br />For those who would like to know the order of the series, it is as follows: It Had to be You, Heaven Texas, Nobody's Baby But Mine, Dream a Little Dream and This Heart of Mine. Enjoy!	2004-04-02
US	43420620	R1XLO2XRRBFU0Z	0671521446	361602284	Carried Away	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Two Romances... Double the Fun!	Heiress Georgina Bayard has one last chance to save her home and the Bayard clock dynasty from foreclosure. She must marry a wealthy man, and unfortunately, the one she must manipulate a proposal out of is short and bald. So she's using the last of her money to throw a huge house party to secure her proposal. <br />Young, gentle Amy Emerson is attending that party, as well as her fiancé. She finds out rather publicly he's only interested in her money. Brokenhearted and humiliated, she breaks off their engagement.<br />Eachann McLachlan, tall, blonde and a bit wild, lives at Highland Castle with his older brother, Cullum, who is his polar opposite. Cullum is dark, calm, meticulous, and has resolved to remain unmarried. The brothers are descendents of a Highlands clan who were forced to flee Scotland, and now reside together on this remote and isolated island off the coast of Maine. <br />Eachann's two young children have just been expelled from school, and are returning to live with him and Cullum. Eachann decides he must marry in order to have a wife to raise his children. During Georgina's house party, he overhears her say she must marry, so he impulsively kidnaps her to be his bride. Eachann also witnessed Amy's misery, and decides to bring her along against her will, as the bride for Cullum. <br />Once back on the island, Georgina is angry, screaming in protest, and tries repeatedly to escape. But between Eachann, who she refers to as \\"McOaf\\", and the pea soup fog covering the whole island, she's stuck with her captor. Amy handles the situation quietly while nursing her broken heart. Cullum finds himself attracted to Amy, but valiantly tries to fight his feelings. With escape impossible due to the never-ending fog, ultimately passions begin to flare as both couples come to terms with each other. <br />You get two romances here, and twice the fun. It's difficult to find a novel where the author can successfully combine two love stories in the same book. Ms. Barnett makes it look effortless in this selection. I never had difficulty keeping track of the characters, or what was taking place. The characters were three-dimensional, and I found all of them likeable. This was a sexy, entertaining, and hilarious read. It is one of my favorites by her, and actually one of my overall favorite romances. An absolute must read!	2004-04-01
US	43420620	RNLVK99MPXTXM	0515109746	43832879	The Hellion Bride (Sherbrooke, Book 2)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Enjoyable Entry in the Bride Series...	Ryder Sherbrooke, a devil may care rake with seven illegitimate children, has journeyed across the ocean to Jamaica. His purpose is to investigate the reported supernatural occurrences at Kimberly Hall, the Sherbrooke sugar plantation.<br />\\"It was said she had three lovers.\\" This was the rumor circulating about Sophia Stanton-Greville, a nineteen-year-old English born lady who, after her parents died, was sent to Jamaica to live with her abusive uncle. Sophia is used to controlling men and getting what she wants. And what she wants is to add Ryder to her collection of lovers. Ryder believes she has ulterior motives for wanting him, and intends on finding out what they are, and showing her who's in control. Sophia may not be who she seems, and the more Ryder gets involved, the greater the danger.<br />This is the second book in the Sherbrooke Bride series. A very enjoyable read that once begun, I had great difficulty putting down. When not reading it, I found my mind wandering back to the story until I could pick the book back up. In some ways this story was even better than the first book, \\"The Sherbrooke Bride\\". I love the character of Ryder, a fun-loving rake with a harem of lovers and a brood of illegitimate children. However, we find out some interesting things about Ryder, which make him even more endearing. Sophia was also a likeable character, and I felt the progression of her and Ryder's relationship, in regard to her history of trauma, was believable and handled well. While this story did have its humorous moments, it lacked the laugh out loud humor found in \\"The Sherbrooke Bride\\". On the other hand, the subplot of intrigue surrounding Sophia was more engrossing than the subplot of the first book.<br />I gave the book four, instead of five stars, because of the ever-present theme of sexual molestation. And I'm not actually referring to the love scenes between Ryder and Sophia. I never got the impression of rape from those, although I feel he did coerce her. What I'm actually referring to are instances where a secondary character demanded sexual favors, or intended to rape Sophia. Off the top of my head, without searching through the book, I can come up with at least seven occasions where this occurred. But the most disturbing for me was what happened to Ryder at the cottage where he was drugged, stripped by the uncle, and the prostitute \\"had him\\" without his knowledge. Regardless, I 'm still enjoying reading this series, and this book in my opinion, does deserve those four stars. I do wish the sexual molestation theme were toned down a bit though. This story is still worth recommending, and I'm looking forward to reading the next book, \\"The Heiress Bride\\".	2004-04-01
US	43420620	R10Q6OYDLNQKNA	0312980159	272135612	Fast Women	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This is Storytelling at its Best...	Nell Dysart is numb. After a divorce some eighteen months earlier, her life has been on autopilot. Her friend pulls some strings to get her a temporary job with a run-down detective agency stuck in the fifties. Gabe McKenna is the tall, dark, and broad-shouldered owner of McKenna Investigations. His life is not going so well either. He's wasting time talking to clients about blackmail, his cousin and partner, Riley, is fed up with watching cheating spouses, and his ex-wife of ten years has dumped him again. <br />Nell is efficient and wants to clean the place up, which might require a bulldozer. Gabe wants everything to remain the same. When Nell calls the cleaning service to find out why they haven't done their job for the last few months, she ultimately discovers the secretary she`s filling in for had embezzled several thousand dollars from the agency. Seems simple enough, but this discovery leads to lies, blackmail, murder, frozen corpses and the loss of some really nice china. Nell and Gabe disagree on most things. The business cards, new office furniture, and dognapping, but eventually they do agree they can't keep their hands off each other, even though it does break business rule number three. <br />There is a lot going on in this story. Several secondary characters have quite a bit of page time, more than usually seen in a romance novel. Suze, who is Nell's sister-in-law and best friend, plus Riley, are in the story almost as much as Nell and Gabe. The twists and turns of the plot are numerous, because this is about much more than romance. Oddly enough, it works, and even though the plot is convoluted, I had no difficulty keeping track. It does take about half the book for the attraction between Nell and Gabe to become evident, but I was so entertained it didn't really matter. Plus, this gave a more realistic time frame for them to fall in love, especially since Nell was still reeling from her divorce. <br />A very unique, humor-filled romance novel with three-dimensional characters that kept me quite engrossed until the very end. Ms. Crusie is an amazing storyteller who hooked me with, \\"Welcome to Temptation\\", which still remains my favorite of hers thus far. But this is a worthy contender, and I have no qualms in recommending it.	2004-03-31
US	43420620	R1GRJ9C5ETCBXC	0060092645	979727315	My Favorite Bride (Governess Brides, Book 6)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	There is still Much Originality Here...	Samantha Prendregast could tolerate many things, but injustice wasn't one of them. Unfortunately, trying to right an injustice just lost her another governess position, and much needed references. So the proprietor of the Distinguished Academy of Governesses has exiled her to the wild Lake District of England, to care for six young girls at the Devil's Fell estate. Being a London girl, living in the country is a little frightening, what with wild animals and such. <br />The most frightening part of her position comes in the form of her disturbingly handsome employer, and the unmistakable attraction that quickly develops. Colonel William Gregory, military officer and widower, always does the correct thing to keep his life in perfect order, and it isn't logical to give in to desire to bed your children's governess. Or is it? To fight his attraction, William invites Lady Marchant, pretty, rich, and with noble roots, to act as hostess of his house party. She, after all, would be his logical mate. Samantha stands up to him, contradicts him, pushes him to the edge, and he can't stop thinking about her. So much so, it's interfering with his work on uncovering the ring of spies that have been wreaking havoc. And Samantha has problems of her own, her six charges have gone through eleven governesses, and she's to be next. The children she can handle with a little cunning and guile, but their infuriating father is another story. He's becoming harder to resist, and what will he do if he ever discovers the secret of her past?<br />First of all, I'm presently a huge fan of Ms. Dodd's work. However, this was my very first read by her, and knowing nothing of the author, I read it simply because the premise sounded interesting. It surpassed my expectations, and I went in search of the rest of the series. Now Ms. Dodd is an auto-read for me.  Obviously, I didn't read the Governess Bride series in order, since this is the last installment. This book is not only one of my series favorites, but one of my favorite romances period. The number of reviewers who don't like this story because of its familiarity surprises me. Yes, I quickly recognized the Sound of Music inspiration in the story. Believe me, I've seen that movie more times than I can count. This book is still wonderful, and the story is strong enough to stand on its own merit. It's sexy, funny, clever, and fast-paced with interesting, well-developed characters. Samantha was the typical Ms. Dodd heroine I love - strong, outspoken, intelligent and independent. William was also strong, handsome and principled. And yes, his principles also made him rather inflexible, and he accused Samantha undeservingly toward the end of the book. Since he saw things in black and white, I felt what he did was in line with his character. But the secondary character that almost stole the show for me was Lady Marchant. She was delightful, and when she finally cut loose and we saw the real Lady, that was a treat not to be missed! This book remains on my keeper shelf, a place it deserves to be.	2004-03-31
US	43420620	R3S54WDICVJD0F	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nobody does it better than Christina Dodd...	Rich and arrogant, Devon Mathewes, earl of Kerrich, enjoys his rakish lifestyle, and has no wish for change. However, he has recently fallen out of favor with Queen Victoria, his friend since childhood.  She wishes him to give up his roaming, and settle down to a respectable life with one woman, or she will reveal an embarrassing indiscretion he has kept secret for years. To get back in her good graces, Devon has devised a plan. He approaches the Distinguished Academy of Governesses to hire a governess. There are a few stipulations for her employment. She must be plain, dowdy, past her prime, and have given up on all possibility of marriage. Because he is just fed up with women showing up naked in his bedchamber, and throwing themselves at his handsome, irresistible self. This governess must also procure a male orphan for him to sponsor, therefore giving the illusion he has changed into a stable, respectable person, without resorting to marriage.<br />The young and beautiful Miss Pamela Lockhart does not meet these requirements, but she'll have to do. Disguising her beauty beneath large plain clothing, makeup and ugly glasses, she fools Devon, but not his wiley old grandfather who keeps her secret. Devon finds himself attracted to Pamela's mind, if not her appearance. And the orphan, Beth, is becoming more important to him than she should. Devon is finding it hard to concentrate on the other problems plaguing him and his family. Somebody is counterfeiting money, and it's threatening the family bank. In the end, this person may end up a threat to those he now finds he can't live without. Especially when he \\"uncovers\\" the real Pamela.<br />This second book of the Governess Bride series is not only one of my series favorites, but one of my all-time favorite romances as well. The strong, independent and pragmatic Pamela has aristocratic roots, but has purposefully avoided marriage thus far. The fact she basically seduces Devon the first time was refreshing, and perhaps one of the steamiest love scenes I've ever read. I love the fact Ms. Dodd's heroines are frequently not above a little assertive seduction of their own! Devon was wonderful also - he came off as being so arrogant and sure of himself, but underneath he had a big heart.  But probably the best character of all was Devon's grandfather who provided so much of the humor in this book. He was a riot! The intrigue was a nice extra also, although we knew who the culprit was.<br /> So to sum it up, this book was funny, sexy, well written, and difficult to put down. An all around winner from one of my favorite authors!! Don't miss it!s one of the steamiest love scenes I've ever read. I love the fact Ms. Dodd's heroines are frequently not above a little assertive seduction of their own! Devon was wonderful also - he came off as being so arrogant and sure of himself, but underneath he had a big heart.  But probably the best character of all was Devon's grandfather who provided so much of the humor in this book. He was a riot! The intrigue was a nice extra also, although we knew who the culprit was.<br /> So to sum it up, this book was funny, sexy, well written, and difficult to put down. An all around winner from one of my favorite authors!! Don't miss it!	2004-03-30
US	43420620	R1CXO21RJX85V9	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	BEWARE: A One-Sitting Read...	After a brief infatuation, Enid MacLean had married at the tender age of seventeen. Her husband, Stephen MacLean, turned out to be impulsive, irresponsible, and unwilling to stay in one place too long.  After three months of marriage, he abandoned Enid to fend for herself, and pay off his accumulated debts.<br />Nine years later, Enid now works as a nurse companion for the Distinguished Academy of Governesses. Her world is turned upside down again, when a man named Throckmorton informs her of an explosion abroad, which has severely injured her long-missing husband. Reluctantly, she leaves her current post to do her wifely duty and take care of Stephen. What she sees when she gets there is shocking. This man, barely clinging to life, looks nothing like the husband she remembers, except for the striking color of his eyes. Until her arrival, most everyone felt he had no chance of survival, and had given him up for dead. For reasons Enid cannot fathom, she feels more of a connection to this familiar stranger than she should, and is determined he would not die. His body's injuries gradually heal, but when he wakes, he has no memory of anything, including his wife.<br />As much as they try, neither can deny the overwhelming desire they feel for each other. But the security at this sanctuary is fleeting, when an attempt is made on their lives. So Throckmorton sends them to Stephen's family home in Scotland. A journey Enid dreads, because she will be forced to face the man who despises her, Kiernan MacLean, Stephen's cousin, and laird of the clan. When she married Stephen, Kiernan had accused her of being nothing more than a gold digger, and had disapproved of their union.<br />Now in the wilds of Scotland, shocking secrets will be revealed, and the danger ultimately follows them. Together, they will solve the mystery, set a trap for those responsible, and have the chance to grab onto a once in a lifetime love.<br />This was a compelling story that I actually read several months ago, and have never forgotten. Enid and Stephen were both such likeable characters. Enid was strong, independent, pragmatic, and didn't want to feel anything for the man who hurt and abandoned her years ago. Stephen was warm, caring and passionate. Nothing like the man Enid remembers. To say their love scenes were intensely erotic would be an understatement. The premise of her nursing him back to health from the brink of death is always one I enjoy reading. Unlike most books from this genre, the plot twist in this book is not one you're likely to figure out, or at least I didn't. Plus the intrigue, which was very predominant in this story, was really well done. Ms. Dodd's trademark humor was virtually missing here as I recall, but that isn't a negative in this case. This book is exceptional, and will remain on my keeper shelf along with the rest of this series. It remains a favorite of mine.months ago, and have never forgotten. Enid and Stephen were both such likeable characters. Enid was strong, independent, pragmatic, and didn't want to feel anything for the man who hurt and abandoned her years ago. Stephen was warm, caring and passionate. Nothing like the man Enid remembers. To say their love scenes were intensely erotic would be an understatement. The premise of her nursing him back to health from the brink of death is always one I enjoy reading. Unlike most books from this genre, the plot twist in this book is not one you're likely to figure out, or at least I didn't. Plus the intrigue, which was very predominant in this story, was really well done. Ms. Dodd's trademark humor was virtually missing here as I recall, but that isn't a negative in this case. This book is exceptional, and will remain on my keeper shelf along with the rest of this series. It remains a favorite of mine.	2004-03-30
US	43420620	R2KZ9LL6S0NNO6	0380814382	658316423	True Confessions	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's True ... Confessions is good for the soul...	Hope Spencer is in a slump. Living in Los Angeles, she's one of the best at writing tabloid fiction. But not lately, so her boss sends her on a six-month vacation in the small mountainous town of Gospel, Idaho, hoping a change of scenery will give way to inspiration. It doesn't take long for Hope to realize the inhabitants of this town are strange, even by tabloid standards. There's the betting pool on how many flatlanders will be injured hiking in the wilderness. The Dean sisters who love blue and purple so much, they even dye their hair to match. Of course, who could forget the toilet-tossing contest. But there's one man who stands out among all the oddness. Dylan Taber is the tall, good-looking sheriff who has half the women in town chasing after him. Dressed in his black Stetson and cowboy boots, he certainly makes Hope's heart race. And when circumstances, and Hope's outspoken behavior keep them running into each other, resisting their growing attraction becomes impossible. But secrets remain between them, and until they each do some confessing, there can be no future together.<br />This is the second book I've read by Rachel Gibson, and I'm sold on her writing abilities. In fact, I'm officially working on reading her entire backlist now. There's good reason she has several books on the Romance Writers of America's list of top books for each year. This story is sweet, fresh, and fast-paced with quirky, original characters and witty dialogue. Hope was sassy and likeable, and Dylan was a hero that sure made me weak in the knees! Their love scenes were intense after the tension had been built to fever-pitch proportions. This story is just a winner across the board. A definite must read.	2004-03-28
US	43420620	RNRF4PB6A37R9	0380808080	316913360	This Heart of Mine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Funny and Endearing Love Story...	Molly Somerville had previously lived the kind of life most only dream of. That is, until she decided to give her entire fifteen million dollar inheritance to charity. Now she's the struggling author of children's books featuring the characters Daphne the Bunny and Benny the Badger. It may be a little more than coincidence that Daphne and Benny are mirror images of herself, and the object of her long-term infatuation. <br />Kevin Tucker is the famous quarterback for the Chicago Stars football team, owned by Molly's sister, Phoebe. Kevin is wild, gorgeous, infuriating and barely knows she's alive. But that's all about to change. Because Molly has a wild streak of her own, and when her and Kevin accidentally end up at the family vacation house together, her wild streak turns into an uncontrollable urge. Kevin is furious, and their lives irrevocably change. <br />Together they take a trip to Wind Lake, the drab campground of Kevin's childhood summers, which he recently inherited and can't wait to sell. What they find is a surprise - a bed and breakfast and a collection of beautiful, quaint cottages set in picturesque surroundings. Perhaps this is the place to put differences aside, heal old wounds, and grab onto a once in a lifetime love. <br />This is the fifth, and final installment in the Chicago Stars/Bonner Brothers series. For those of you who may not know, the order is: \\"It Had To Be You\\", \\"Heaven Texas\\", \\"Nobody's Baby But Mine\\", \\"Dream a Little Dream\\", and \\"This Heart of Mine\\". I confess I didn't read the series in order, and have yet to read, \\"Dream a Little Dream\\".  However, this is a strong finish for an outstanding collection of books. I continue to be amazed at how SEP builds her complex characters, layer by layer, until they breathe with a life of their own. Molly and Kevin must each face the ghosts of their past, and struggle to accept their feelings for each other. The setting of Wind Lake was magical, and the humor SEP weaves in her stories so well, was present too. The baseball game has to be the funniest part of the book. And I love the Daphne and Benny story excerpts at the beginning of each chapter. Not only do I recommend this book, but the whole series (except \\"Dream a Little Dream\\" which I haven't read, so can't voice an opinion). In fact, three books of this series are some of my all-time favorite reads, with this being one of them. Enjoy!!	2004-03-27
US	43420620	R2L8ZNWFEM7G4U	0380790904	143931696	A Well Favored Gentleman	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Utter Perfection...	The moment he stepped into Fionnaway Manor, he knew destiny had brought him home. Ian Fairchild, intelligent, darkly handsome, and full of secrets, longs for the home he's never had. Ian's evil father, Leslie, issued a dying request for him to come to the seaside estate. At the same time, he led Ian to believe he would inherit Fionnaway. After Ian's arrival, and a visit from the village witch, Leslie's condition improves. Ian soon discovers he cannot inherit the Scottish estate, because it will belong to Lady Alanna McLeod. She disappeared several years ago, but will soon shed her disguise, and claim the right as mistress of her beloved Fionnaway. Ian is determined to have the estate, which means marriage to Lady Alanna. But she is distrusting of Ian, and his motives. Ian will do whatever it takes to fulfill his dream. But what will Alanna think when she discovers his dark heritage, and the magical powers he possesses? <br />I am still in awe of this story. In some ways, this book is a departure from everything else I've read by Ms. Dodd. It is unique, sensual, and absolute poetic storytelling perfection. It weaved its magic web around my heart, and I may never recover. The story heavily concerns the myth of the Selkies, who were seals that could assume human form at will. You may be thinking this sounds ludicrous, but it's not. The story is very believable, even though it's full of magic and myth. <br />Ian and Alanna were both wonderful characters, but Ian was my favorite. I love that he was strong, but still had insecurities. He possessed magic powers, but all he really wanted was to belong, have a home, and be loved. The cast of secondary characters is strong as well, and adds a great deal to the story. <br />This is the sequel to \\"A Well Pleasured Lady\\", which was also excellent, and more typical of Ms. Dodd's usual style. I recommend reading both, but this book is special, and one of my all-time favorites.	2004-03-27
US	43420620	RFJ5TT28Y8FW9	0671778684	865182781	Dreaming	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Funny, Charming and Wonderful!  I never wanted it to end!	\\"Letitia Olive Hornsby believed in fate, in hearts destined, in love at first sight. And she had loved him forever.\\" At age eleven, she met Richard Lennox, her next-door neighbor, and the man of her dreams. She watched him ride his white steed onto the bridge, and knew it was love at first sight. Then she accidentally knocked him into the river. <br />Richard, now the Earl of Downe, has been the object of Letty's affections for years. He has also been the object of her good intentions, which continually go astray. Like the time she accidentally dislocated his shoulder, or when she drove his curricle over his foot, forcing him to use a cane for two months.<br /> Richard's friends have been concerned about him of late, and finally convince him to return home from London. He's been putting all his effort into running from his mental demons, by indulging in drinking, gambling, dueling, and bedding every willing woman he could find. Now that he's home, things are about to get even worse. Letty, or as Richard refers to her, \\"the Hornsby hellion\\", is spying on him from a tree, and has another mishap. This mishap results in their capture by smugglers, who place them together in a cell aboard ship. And to make matters worse for Richard, Letty's \\"hellhound\\" dog, Gus, is also captured with them. Being trapped with Letty for days at sea may prompt him to realize his feelings for her...if Letty doesn't sink the ship before they manage to escape.<br />This is the sequel to \\"Bewitching\\" which I accidentally read in the wrong order. I believe this may be the funniest story Ms. Barnett has written. I don't think I've ever laughed so much while reading a book. But it isn't all laughs because the story is also very sweet and touching. You may even shed a tear. I read this book in one day because I absolutely couldn't put it down. Letty is the klutz with a huge heart, who sees the world through rose-colored glasses, and loves Richard unconditionally. Richard is the bad boy who suffersthe pain of all her accidents, and tries to chase her away for her own good, but can't help falling in love with her. Normally, I don't read books more than once very often, but I know I will read this one again. This is one of my all-time favorite romance novels, and it will remain on my keeper shelf. I really do recommend you read \\"Bewitching\\" first, because characters from that story are brought back here, and I remember feeling there was a history about them unknown to me.  \\"Bewitching\\" is an extremely good read also. So, read both...you won't be disappointed!!	2004-03-26
US	43420620	R2Y8LVZA9UUBJ9	0061081523	265480506	Move Heaven and Earth (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A Truly Moving Love Story...	Once vibrant and full of life, Lord Rand Malkin returned from the Napoleonic Wars a hero, and a traumatized man. Unable to walk and seething with anger, his tantrums and rudeness were not improving. So Rand's brother, the duke of Clairmont, hired a new nurse to care for him.<br />Sylvan Miles had tirelessly worked to heal the men wounded in battle, men who still haunt her dreams. She can remember a more uncomplicated time, when she attended parties, danced and flirted. A time when she first met Rand. They had shared one unforgettable waltz in a Brussels ballroom, before the breath of scandal, combined with her father's cold, domineering rule forced her to flee. Not only will she now have to deal with her feelings for Rand, but also the ghost of the first duke rumored to still roam the halls of Clairmont Court. Soon it becomes apparent there's a very real threat at Clairmont. Together, Sylvan and Rand will need to discover the source of the danger, as well as heal their own emotional scars.<br />Ms. Dodd has done it again by writing a beautiful, riveting and emotionally charged love story. She has an uncanny knack for combining great romance between well-developed characters, along with humor, believable intrigue, and highly erotic love scenes. Both Rand and Sylvan were quite enjoyable characters, and the spark between them burned throughout the pages. From the beginning when Sylvan walked into the house, and handled Rand's tantrum with humor and consummate skill, I was hooked. I also greatly enjoyed the secondary characters of Aunt Adela and Lady Emmie with their constant bickering, but they could conspire to bring Rand and Sylvan together. The only part I found difficult to read was where Rand said some pretty terrible things to Sylvan, in his misguided effort to protect her by chasing her away. But this is only minor, and certainly does nothing to change my opinion of how wonderful this book is. A definite must read.	2004-03-25
US	43420620	R109BTPEL6NAQQ	0061081515	150021	Outrageous	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well written engrossing love story...	Bold and spirited, Lady Marian Wenthaven could wield an impressive sword. Living on her father's estate with her two-year-old son, Lionel, she harbors a dangerous secret. Marian is the close friend, and was once chief lady-in-waiting to the future Queen.<br />Griffith ap Powell was no stranger to battle, and he helped insure Henry Tudor would be king of England. Now the King has sent him to protect Lady Marian. It doesn't take long to discover treachery is afoot. But strong-willed Marian is not the easiest lady to protect, and the threat may be originating from someone close to Marian. Together they will have to confront the danger, and their feelings for each other.<br />When I pick up a book by Ms. Dodd, I just know it will be wonderful, and this was no exception. I loved the fact Marian was such a skilled swordsman, an attribute normally associated with men. Griffith was a strong, determined character and it was refreshing he knew he and Marian were meant to be, before she figured it out or accepted it. Art, Griffith's loyal, wily as a fox servant, was a real treat. Liver-spotted, snaggle-toothed and one-eyed, he could still easily seduce women to gain information if needed. The intrigue subplot was engrossing, believable and well done. If I had to come up with something negative to say, it would be the fact Marian did tend to make impulsive decisions, that would put her in dangerous situations requiring rescue. Although other reviewers have already pointed this out, I wasn't bothered enough by her behavior to lower my opinion of the quality of the story. I have read nearly everything Ms. Dodd has written. And yes, I do agree she has written better, but this was still a worthy book, and I do recommend it.	2004-03-24
US	43420620	R172KS0KWJIH0F	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Rather disappointing...	Successful writer, Amanda Briars is preparing to celebrate her thirtieth birthday in a most interesting way. She's unmarried, believes she will remain alone, and she's a virgin. So she visits a local madam to hire a man as her special birthday present. But the madam decides to do a little matchmaking. By the time Amanda opens the door for her visitor, she's having second thoughts. What she doesn't know is the devastatingly handsome man at her door is Jack Devlin, London's most notorious publisher. Once he realizes he's not who she's expecting, he comes close to fulfilling her birthday wish, but he has other plans for her. Once she realizes her mistake, she's embarrassed and upset with him for not revealing his identity. He wants to publish one of her books, and uses the events of his visit to gain her agreement. Working closely together, it's not long before they succumb to the growing attraction between them. But they will have some obstacles to overcome before they can remain together.<br />First of all, this was the first novel I've read by Ms. Kleypas. When reading the back cover of this book, I was intrigued because it sounded different and original. The first half of the book was interesting, and I enjoyed the fact it was about the publishing world, and not the nobility. That seemed refreshing. Jack was certainly a sexy hero, so that was another good point. However, halfway through the book, I lost interest and just quickly skimmed through the rest. What should have been a character driven sensual romance, turned into a mundane, lackluster story. Except of course for the love scenes. And I use the term \\"love\\" loosely here, because I don't find it sensual to read about every which way you can sex. And the crowning glory was one of the last scenes, which gives new meaning to the term \\"fruit filling\\".<BR> <BR>I gave this story two stars for the first half which I enjoyed, and I will probably try another book by Ms. Kleypas, because I do think she has writing talent. I just can't recommend this particular book.	2004-03-24
US	43420620	R3OF8HPRVDZXLD	0373218397	575803812	Summer Pleasures	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It happened one summer...	This is a two-story anthology, both written by Nora Roberts. I will note below an individual rating of each.<br />SECOND NATURE- It would be a professional coup to be granted an exclusive interview with horror fiction novelist, Hunter Brown. Los Angeles based reporter, Lee Radcliffe, intended on accomplishing just that. Flying to Arizona to attend a writer's conference he would be speaking at, she met the reclusive, enigmatic Hunter at the airport. Except she thought he was a taxi driver, and he didn't bother to correct her. He grants her the interview, but only if she will go on a camping trip with him in Oak Creek Canyon. Alone with Hunter for two weeks, Lee just may find out more about him than she anticipated. <br />This was my favorite of the two stories. I enjoyed the characters of Lee, and especially the cool and complicated Hunter. I would rate this five stars.<br />ONE SUMMER- Celebrity photographer and junk food junkie, Bryan Mitchell, would be spending her summer traveling across the country with a difficult man. Cynical photojournalist, Shade Colby, accustomed to photographing images of war, and the grit of life, had reluctantly agreed to share the assignment. Recording bits of American life on film was an opportunity neither could pass up. But despite their continual conflict, they may discover a depth of mutual feeling neither anticipated. <br />While I felt the first story was much better, this was still an enjoyable read. Three and one half stars would be my rating for this novella. <br />These stories were originally published separately in 1986 as Silhouette Special Editions. Even though they're eighteen years old, they have each stood the test of time. The only blatant thing I found that dates them is the hero of each story is a smoker, and that is rarely seen now in romance novels. Ms. Roberts is a master storyteller, and I've yet to read something of hers I didn't like. As the title suggests, this would make a good summer read.	2004-03-23
US	43420620	R1V3MX40EZYCI4	0446364282	460818201	Love's Encore	Books	1	8	12	N	N	Unoriginal and Unappealing...	Successful interior designer, Camille Jameson, has been commissioned to redecorate an old Mississippi Plantation House. Upon arrival she discovers it is owned by Zack Prescott, the man she had met two years ago at the Snow Bird ski resort. They had a whirlwind romance that led to one night of passion. Now she will have to stay under the same roof with the man she's never forgotten.<br />I actually read the whole book and I'm not sure why. The story was lackluster, insipid, and ranks as one of the worst books I've ever read.  I believe it was written in the 80's and it definitely shows it's age. Camille's reason for their separation makes no sense. And Zack leading her to believe he was currently dating another woman was an awful plot device. This reminds me of the terrible romance novels my mom didn't know I was reading back in high school. And it could have been one of them, now that I think about it. After reading this, I haven't tried anything else by Ms. Brown, but after I recover, I may try one of her more recent publications. They have to be better. Obviously, I cannot recommend this one.	2004-03-21
US	43420620	R1N2DWTWWZ1EV5	0373218400	675121255	Table For Two	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Double Indulgence of Romance and Food...	This is a two-story anthology both written by Nora Roberts. I will note below what my rating would be for each individual story.<br />SUMMER DESSERTS: Dessert chef, Summer Lyndon, jets all over the world to create elaborate, one of a kind, edible works of art. Being in demand as a freelance chef, she has freedom to do as she wishes. But hotel tycoon, Blake Cocharan, plans to convince Summer to accept the head chef position at his Philadelphia hotel restaurant. Signing a one-year contract to overhaul the establishment's cuisine is only the beginning of Summer's challenges - because Blake may have a more permanent position in mind for her.<br />This was a very enjoyable story, and the chemistry between these two headstrong, independent characters is undeniable. I would rate this selection four stars.<br />LESSONS LEARNED: Publicist Juliet Trent has worked hard to get where she is in the business world. Now she has been assigned an important client whose upcoming cookbook tour will require her personal supervision. Her client, renowned Italian chef Carlo Franconi, expert in food and women, has her a little concerned. Carlo is gorgeous, passionate and can be quite temperamental while creating masterpieces in the kitchen. Juliet has a strict rule against mixing business and pleasure. Carlo finds her fascinating and steadily chips away at her resolve. But what will win Juliet over is the big heart he hides beneath the flamboyant exterior. <br />This was my favorite of the two stories. Carlo was irresistible. Ms. Roberts has a way with creating sexy, passionate, temperamental and exotic male characters that you just can't resist. Definitely a five star read. <br />Overall, I felt this book was well worth reading. Ms. Roberts is undoubtedly a gifted storyteller. I've noticed some criticism by reviewers that these stories are dated. Granted, they were originally published separately as Silhouette Special Editions back in the 80's. However, I felt both had unquestionably stood the test of time. Between the two stories, the average score for this book would be 4 ½ stars. But since I'm unable to do that, I did round it up to 5 stars. Great light romance well worth the time, especially as a summer read.	2004-03-20
US	43420620	R1OEG469Z26ZH3	1551668653	684993289	Getting Rid Of Bradley	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good...but not her best work...	Lucy Savage is having a streak of bad luck. It all started two months ago when she married her husband, Bradley, because of the second law of thermonuclear dynamics. Well, maybe it was actually to get the house of her dreams, a big old Victorian. But after catching Bradley with the blonde, it was time for Lucy to move on. Then things went from bad to worse. Bradley stood her up in divorce court; she was tackled in an alley by a gun-wielding hoodlum, who turned out to be a cop. Of course, she didn't find that out until after she beat him up. She's been shot at, her car blew up, and experimentation with color has left her hair green. <br />Zack Warren, the sexy detective Lucy attacked, is sure her ex-husband is the same Bradley he's trying to arrest for embezzlement. Now Zach has moved in with Lucy to provide police protection. But they both may need protection, more from each other, because the case is not the only thing heating up!<br />I have read a couple of other books by Crusie, and while this story was good, I didn't feel it was her best work. Overall, it was cute and the dialogue witty, but it lacked the laugh out loud humor found in her other work I've read thus far. It was a fast-paced read, but I did find it relatively easy to lay the book aside when I needed to. Lucy and Zack were likeable main characters, but not very memorable. <br />Ms. Crusie hooked me upon reading my first book by her, \\"Welcome to Temptation\\", probably one of the best novels I've ever read. Since then, I'm working on her backlist, which is how I came across this story. This looks to be an early work of hers, and I can see her growth as a writer. As for a recommendation, if you're a Crusie fan, I'd recommend trying this one. If you've never read her work, start with \\"Welcome to Temptation\\", instead of this one.	2004-03-20
US	43420620	R1O2MQYTDH7KKC	067103412X	701858393	Wicked	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great way to wrap up the trilogy...	To say Lady Sophia Howard was stubborn would be an understatement. Sophia's mother had died trying to give birth to a male heir. Not bothering to say goodbye, her distraught father immediately rode into battle and was mortally wounded. The spirited, willful and distrusting Sophia then became the ward of her cousin, King Edward I of England. Once she reached womanhood, Edward began thrusting a stream of suitors at the heavily dowered Sophia, but she had rejected every one of them. Then she met a handsome, arrogant knight at a festival, Sir Tobin de Clare. But Tobin had ulterior motives for pursuing her that had nothing to do with her dowry. Ultimately, he and his game left her with a broken heart.  But Sir Tobin realized Sophia was the one woman he wanted as a wife, and would stop at nothing to claim her. When Edward announces her betrothal to Tobin without her consent, she's less than thrilled. The battle lines are drawn, but Sophia may have met her match in this war of wills. <br />\\"Wicked\\" is the conclusion to the \\"Wonderful\\" and \\" Wild\\" trilogy. I have unfortunately been reading these backwards, so I still need to read \\"Wonderful\\". This selection is also full of Ms. Barnett's trademark humor.  I believe the battle of wills between Sophia and Tobin is the best part of this book. They're both very strong characters, and they each hold their own throughout this story. I gave this book four, instead of five stars, because while it's very good, I did prefer \\"Wild\\" and a couple of her other books over this one. By no means should that discourage you from reading this story, it's worth the time.  Jill Barnett is a favorite author of mine, and she never fails to deliver to her readers. If her name is on it, you know it's good!	2004-03-19
US	43420620	RPB3GWI4HLJOK	0671731661	248061671	Daniel's Bride	Books	2	2	7	N	N	Just okay...nothing special...	Jolie McKibben had been in the wrong place at the wrong time.  While in the company of Blake and Rowdy, the two desperados robbed a bank and killed a man in the process. Once they high-tailed it out of there, Jolie was left to suffer the consequences. Standing in the hot sun with a noose around her neck, her sentence was death by hanging. Daniel Beckman, a local farmer, happened on the scene. The town had an ordinance that could save Jolie, but someone would need to marry her, and quickly. Surprisingly, Daniel consents, and takes his bride home in silence. Daniel still mourns his deceased wife, but could use help on the farm with cooking and cleaning. It isn't long, though, before Jolie is performing other wifely duties for her aloof new husband. Between Daniel's new wife, and two orphaned children who end up living with them, Daniel begins to have difficulty protecting his heart. But there's more strife ahead, for the two desperados are on Jolie's trail.<br />This was my second and last read by Ms. Miller. First of all, I `m not a big fan of western romance, but there are some out there that appeal to me. This book was just okay for me - nothing special. My main problems with it were the overall depressing mood of the story, Jolie and Daniel were okay characters but not very memorable, and some of the plot elements were over the top. Jolie's friend, Nan, ends up marrying the evil Ira January, and subsequently Jolie ends up in danger from Blake, Rowdy and Ira. The plot lost a lot of its reality base for me, because it just seemed the author was trying to cram too much in it. As for a recommendation, if you're a fan of Ms. Miller and/or Western romance, this book is probably for you. Otherwise, I'd skip it.	2004-03-19
US	43420620	R27D9H2C0ZG95E	0380804964	282940931	The Last Man in Town (An Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The man needs a night off...	Maple Falls had become a town almost exclusively inhabited by women. Every healthy man had ventured west to California, seeking his fortune in the Gold Rush. But there was one healthy, good-looking, virile man left in town - Lucas Garrett, owner of the town's general store. Now, Lucas loved women. And he found it hard to say no to them. But lately he had been saying yes so much, he was just plain exhausted! And he never got to sleep alone anymore. Heck, he never got to sleep at all anymore! So he sought help from his longtime best friend, the trustworthy and proper Priscilla Wentworth. Priscilla agrees to his request, to pose as his betrothed to keep all the hungry ladies away. But she does want one thing in return - for Lucas to find her a husband. Reluctantly, he agrees. Although he's uncertain just where he will find a suitable man for the lovely Pris. But once their relationship starts heating up, Lucas may begin to consider himself the most suitable candidate. <br />This was my first read by Susan Kay Law, and although I'm not usually drawn to stories set in the Old West, I did enjoy this one. It was a well-written, light read infused with humor. I liked the characters of Lucas and Priscilla and their love scenes were quite sensual. The story is basically about how these two fall in love and get together, without much in the way of subplots. It's worth the time, especially if you're looking for an enjoyable, light reading experience.	2004-03-19
US	43420620	R2HBK9HIFGC5AR	055357521X	704749584	Merely Married	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Romance with Humor...	Adrian Devereau, Duke of Raven, is thirty-one, handsome, rich and titled, but still unmarried. And that's just the way he likes it. Nicknamed the Wicked Lord Raven, he capitalizes on that reputation to remain single. But the young ladies and their marriage minded mammas are all trying to reel him in, and change his wicked ways. So he concocts a scheme to keep the women at bay, and earn him some peace. He will marry a woman on her deathbed, and play the part of grieving widower after she passes on. It didn't take long to find the perfect candidate. Leah Stretton was traveling to London when she became critically ill, and wasn't expected to live through the night. But when his new bride appears at his home healthy, beautiful and headstrong, he finds he must go along with her wishes. Leah would not allow a scandal to ruin her sister's chances of finding a suitable husband in London. So if Adrian will play the devoted husband in public, she'll grant him an annulment after her sister is safely wed. The only hitch in her plan comes from the unintentional challenge Leah issues to Adrian. She proposes the basis for their annulment will be the lack of consummation of their marriage. Adrian will never allow society to think the Wicked Lord Raven couldn't bed his own wife, so the challenge of seducing Leah begins. However, in the end, the real challenge may be for Leah to melt the wall of ice surrounding Adrian's scarred heart. <br />This is the first novel I've read by Ms. Coughlin, and it looks like she has mainly written Silhouette and Harlequin series books to date. I did find one other stand-alone title by her, \\"Lord Savage\\", which I believe I'll try to find. This was an enjoyable read and I was pleasantly surprised. The story was original and fresh with an added bonus of humor. Adrian and Leah were interesting and well developed characters. Definitely a keeper that I recommend without reservation.	2004-03-19
US	43420620	RLRWTN6O3TMLP	0380790890	243725613	A Well Pleasured Lady: Well Pleasured #2 (Well Pleasured Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Well Pleased with Well Pleasured...	Lady Guinevere Mary Fairchild had been wealthy, impetuous, and a little spoiled as a young lady. But that quickly changed. First with the death of her parents, followed by the rejection of Mary and her brother, by their tyrannical grandfather. Then she had to kill a man to protect her brother. And there was one witness to the crime - Sebastian Durant, Viscount Whitfield, enemy of the Fairchild family. Now it's ten years later; she's known as Mary Rottenson, and she has left her Fairchild life behind. Prim, proper and emotionally constrained, Mary now concentrates on the efficient performance of her duties as housekeeper to Lady Valery. But her life is changed again when her employer's godson, Sebastian, returns to aide in the retrieval of Lady Valery's stolen diary. A diary which contains damaging secret information, elicited from several political leaders with whom she was \\"involved\\". Sebastian blackmails Mary into posing as his betrothed, to infiltrate the conniving Fairchild family, where he believes the diary to be. Danger lurks around every corner, but the greatest danger may be the growing intensity between Sebastian and Mary. <br />This is my favorite type of Dodd book. Full of humor, wit, intrigue and sexual tension that vibrates with the reading of each page.  She proves herself once again a masterful storyteller. If I had to find something critical to say, it would be that Sebastian probably wasn't my favorite hero she's written, but all the other characters make up for it. The elderly Lady Valery was definitely the best supporting character here. Her own style of \\"investigating\\" the Fairchilds for her diary provided some of the funniest moments. As for the controversy surrounding their first time together, I don't feel this was rape. She was fiercely independent, and unwilling to give in to her passion for Sebastian. And I agree with a previous reviewer, she wouldn't have asked him to continue or had an orgasm if rape was involved.<br />This is the firstof a two book series. Ian Fairchild's story, \\"A Well Favored Gentleman\\", provides the sequel and I highly recommend it as well.  Both books definitely go on my keeper shelf!	2004-03-18
US	43420620	RB2U5D8L5BGDC	0061081531	474306596	The Greatest Lover in All England (Harper Monogram)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Funny and Delightful!	Orphaned as a young child, the only life Rosie can remember is traveling, and appearing on stage with a ragtag band of actors. Disguised as a boy, Rosie is Sir Dannys daughter and part-time son, who barely live above the law. But Sir Danny has plans for Rosie. Plans which involve an arranged marriage to Sir Anthony Rycliffe, master of the Queens guard, and the first to see the woman beneath Rosies disguise. The Queen awarded Sir Anthony an unclaimed estate for his loyal service. But theres talk of an heir who could return and stake a rightful claim. And if Sir Anthony doesnt have enough to worry about, he must also protect Rosie from someone who would rather have her out of the picture permanently.<br />This story is full of Ms. Dodds delightful humor. I was hooked in the first few pages and found it difficult to put the book down. A sexy, compelling love story with great main and secondary characters  Sir Danny and Lady Honora come to mind. And even William Shakespeare himself plays a supporting role. Definitely a must read, especially for Dodd fans such as myself.	2004-03-18
US	43420620	R2QEHV1L9SK6YK	1551666189	224857817	Manhunting (Mira)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Fresh and Funny tale...	Kate Svenson is a highly successful, financially comfortable businesswoman, who stands to inherit a truckload of money from her rich father. Somehow, none of that makes her the least bit happy. Her life is missing something important....Mr. Right.<BR>With the uninvited help of her best friend, Kate makes a plan to find that perfect man. He must be distinguished, intelligent, aggressive and successful. So her friend convinces her to spend some time at a golf resort in Kentucky, a place that should be crawling with men of those qualities. Once there, she forces herself to mingle and date. But calling her dates \\"bad\\" would be an understatement. She pushes Lance in the pool, gives CPR to Peter, and it doesn't improve from there. Her escape is fishing on the lake with the resort's silent partner and groundskeeper, Jake Templeton. Jake, a former tax attorney, has left the fast lane behind in favor of daily naps in his rowboat floating beneath the willow tree. It's not long before Kate throws her plan out the window, in favor of the mutual attraction developing between her and Jake. But how will these polar opposites ever find a common ground for a life together?<br />I'm quickly becoming a fan of Jennifer Crusie. I started with \\"Welcome to Temptation\\", which was a riot, and this is now my second read by her. This was such a sexy, fun story, full of witty dialogue. I thoroughly enjoyed the characters of Kate and Jake. Definitely a must-read. I'm working on reading Ms. Crusie's backlist, and I just can't wait to start my next book by her!	2004-03-16
US	43420620	R1V86XZW4DVIPM	074340341X	810127421	A Season in the Highlands	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Jill Barnett outshines them all...	This is a five story anthology by various authors all taking place in the Scottish Highlands. Some stories are much better than others. I will note a separate rating of each below, but the average of all five ended up being 3 stars, hence my overall score of the book. <br />In the first story, \\"Unfinished Business\\", by Jude Deveraux, Tyler Stevens agrees to fill in at work for her niece Krissy when she takes ill. Temporarily stepping into Krissy's secretarial position leads Tyler to travel to Scotland with Krissy's boss, Joel Kingsley. While in Scotland, Tyler and Joel unwittingly stumble into a ghostly murder mystery that piques their curiosity. Investigating together may lead them to find more than the answer to an old mystery. This story was pretty good, but not what I would consider excellent. It was a worthwhile read and deserves a rating of three stars. <br />The second story, \\"Fall From Grace\\", by Jill Barnett was the hands down winner of this lot. This was my very first Jill Barnett read, and since discovering her here, I've now read nearly all her work. The clans McNish and McNab have been at war for some time. Grace McNish and her band of merry misfits mistakenly ambush and capture the wrong man. Colin Campbell, Earl of Argyll, was on a diplomatic journey investigating the McNab/McNish clan war when Grace \\"captured\\" him. After catching a glimpse of the wild Scottish beauty, he decided to remain in her custody to be near her, and gather information for his investigation. This wonderful story is full of humor. From one clan member who is half deaf and misunderstands even simple instructions, to another who can't hit the side of a barn with the bow and arrow. I laughed out loud too many times to count. This story also contains the steamiest love scene of the entire book. After everything I've read by Ms. Barnett, this is still a favorite. Definitely a five star read. <br />\\"Cold Feet\\", penned by Geralyn Dawson, is the next entry. Texas cowboy, Rand Jenkins, gets lost in the snow-covered moors en route to a castle in the Highlands. Stopping off at a cottage for directions, he meets Annie Munro, a healer who is considered a witch by the locals. Rand ends up spending more time with the lovely Annie than he had planned. For some unknown reason, every cat in the surrounding area is attracted to Rand who subsequently develops an allergic reaction. Using her knowledge of herbs and potions, Annie attempts to ease his suffering. While Rand is fending off felines and trying to get rid of his itching, he begins to get an itch for Annie. This was my least favorite story. It just seemed too unrealistic and didn't hold my attention. I would give this one two stars. <br />\\"The Matchmaker\\" by Pam Binder is story number four. Kathleen MacKenzie owns a bakery in the Scottish town of Edinburgh. When American businessman Duncan MacGreggor leaves his wallet at her establishment, Kathleen sets out to return it. Catching up to him in the elevator of the Palace of Holyroodhouse, she hands him the wallet. Magically they are catapulted back in time to the sixteenth century where Mary, Queen of Scots still inhabited the castle. Now, together they must find their way back to their own time. I wasn't greatly impressed with this novella either. It seemed a little too far-fetched to be believable. I would rate it two stars as well.<br />Last, but not least, is \\"The Christmas Captive\\" by Patricia Cabot. Lady Mairi has fled her guardian's home to escape his rule, and his intent to marry her. Physician, Niall Donnegal, whose brother is the new Duke of Camden, finds Mairi who was injured during her flight. Not knowing she is related to his dreaded enemy, he takes her to his home to recuperate. Their relationship quickly grows. But they must deal with the curse she believes is real, and her guardian's wrath, in order to remain together. This story was quite enjoyable and an above average read. It earns a rating of four stars from me.<br />At the time I read this book, Jude Deveraux was the only author familiar to me. Her story here was better than the full-length novel I had already read. Overall, three of the stories were worth reading - Jude Deveraux, Jill Barnett, and Patricia Cabot. I would say three out of five would make this collection worth picking up. And with each entry being approximately 100 pages, no one story takes long to read.	2004-03-16
US	43420620	R212PL0XZDLI1Y	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It Was An Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie...	Miss Jane Higgenbothem, now a spinster, had a disastrous London season eleven years ago. She had secretly adored the arrogantly handsome Ransom Quincy, the Marquess of Blackburn. In her romantic fervor, she had used her imagination and skill as an artist to create a sculpture of Ransom.  When the statue was exposed at a ball, it revealed her secret adoration and made him a laughingstock. For the sculpture was a nude, and certain anatomical parts were way under proportion. She has since been living in near poverty at the house of her brother-in-law, who treats her as a servant. Returning to London after all this time, she is now chaperone to her beautiful niece. It doesn't take long before she runs into Ransom at a ball. Jane has always intrigued Ransom, and now that he's working undercover to expose a sky ring, perhaps the perfect diversion would be to court her. But his troubles are just beginning. For it's not long before Ransom begins to suspect Jane may be one of those spies, and once the two of them are found in a compromising position, then things really heat up. <br />Christina Dodd rarely fails to deliver a wonderfully constructed humorous story, and she certainly hits the mark with this one. The nude statue is hilarious, and even better is the nickname Ransom is given after the unveiling. I won't spoil it by giving it away, but I still laugh every time I think about it! The love scenes are quite erotic which is something else I've come to expect from Ms. Dodd. This is a five star keeper. Read it and be prepared for a laughing good time!	2004-03-15
US	43420620	R394O4VCA61MPL	0671004131	150861299	Wild	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Beautiful and Touching Love Story...	Ridiculed and stoned by villagers who think she's a witch, Teleri of the Woods has lived for years alone and secluded deep in the forest. Roger FitzAlan, a knight for King Edward, has been sent to the Welsh borderlands to view the site for a new castle stronghold.  Catching site of Teleri riding an Arab stallion stolen five years ago from his best friend, he chases her into the woods. Ambushed, hung from a tree and left to die, Roger's only hope for survival is when Teleri finds him barely alive. She takes him into her home to care for him as she does the ill and wounded animals of her forest home. Roger needs to eventually return to his world, and Teleri will be forced to decide if she has the courage to go with him. <br />This is the second installment in a trilogy all set in medieval times. The trilogy is as follows: &quot;Wonderful&quot;, &quot;Wild&quot;, &quot;Wicked&quot;.  Unfortunately, I wasn't aware these were a series and now I'm reading them backwards.  I really enjoyed this story. Roger and Teleri were both strong, well-developed characters.  Most of the book is just the two of them and how their relationship grows. Teleri was a refreshing character, because living outside the constraints of society gave her an innocence, mixed with few inhibitions. And Teleri wanted her relationship with Roger to progress faster than he did. This sheltered young woman ends up teaching him about love, and the simple beauty of things around them so easily taken for granted. I didn't think this book contained quite the humor Ms. Barnett does so well, but I found this story wonderful regardless. Ms. Barnett tends to include something from the paranormal realm in her books, and this story was no exception. All I will say is there's a huge question to whom Teleri's father was.  <br />I would really recommend reading this series in order if you think you'll be reading all three. \\"Wicked\\" and \\"Wild\\" have divulged some of the story in Wonderful, which I've yet to read. I'm a huge fan of Ms. Barnett's work and I've now read most of it. I've yet to be disappointed, so I definitely recommend this book. It's on my keeper shelf, along with all her other books.	2004-03-15
US	43420620	R2J0ELTPCLLGHS	0671676385	395469941	Caroline and the Raider	Books	2	2	2	N	N	The last page couldn't come too soon...	Orphaned as a child and raised by two spinster sisters, Wyoming schoolmistress Caroline Chalmers needs to get her fiancé out of jail. Seaton Flynn has convinced her he's innocent, and needs to somehow escape the hangman's noose. Boldly Caroline marches into a bar to seek help from a notorious Confederate raider, Guthrie Hayes. Guthrie's not so sure of Seaton's innocence, but they set out together. In the meantime, Caroline also continues her search for her two sisters, all of whom were separated as children. <br />This was my first read by Ms. Miller, despite the fact this is the third installment in a series.  The book started out pretty good, but I soon got bored.  This story seemed to be more about how many times, places and positions they could do the deed.  Don't get me wrong, I enjoy reading romantic fiction, and the love scenes that go with it, but this was a little over the top.  I did finish the book, but I was glad when that last page arrived! If you're a Miller fan, this book is probably for you, otherwise I can't recommend it.	2004-03-15
US	43420620	R299SVBII3N69B	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	0	1	N	N	See Rachel Score with this one!	Jane Alcott, columnist for the Seattle Times newspaper, has been given a special writing assignment. She is to travel with the Seattle Chinooks professional hockey team and cover their games. Progressing from the fluff writing of her \\"Single Girl\\" column to sports reporting will be much different, but she needs the extra money. The Chinooks' players are less than thrilled about a woman following their team, especially the very private hunk of a goalie, Luc \\"Lucky\\" Martineau. Luc earned the nickname ,\\"Lucky\\", for his ability to score with the ladies off the ice, and not allow opposing teams to score on the ice. Between the team members not answering Jane's questions, and their locker room antics, she finally gets fired. But after her exiting speech leads to a game victory, the team decides she's good luck, and it's up to Luc to convince her to come back.<br />Luc's not interested in a petite plain jane with a black and gray wardrobe and cow print pajamas. At least not until this sassy lady beats him at darts, and shows up at a party sporting a little red dress, new haircut, red lipstick and stiletto heels. But Jane is keeping a secret. For she's the author of the racy column, \\"Honey Pie\\", which has all the guys talking. <br />This was my first read by Rachel Gibson, and I can't wait to get my hands on more of her work. I absolutely loved this book! It was fun, fast-paced, and extremely sexy. Luc has got to be one of my favorite romance heroes ever. And I have to say I'm not really in to tatoos, but Luc has a tatoo you just got to read about! Oh Baby! Both this book and Luc are keepers!	2004-03-14
US	43420620	R1NATD4EKAS6XT	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Only Average...	Alec MacLean, the rakish Viscount Hunterston, must marry by midnight and live without scandal for a year, or lose his grandfather's inheritance to his no-good cousin.  He's to marry the scheming Teresa, but ends up mistakenly grabbing her cousin Julia instead. Julia Frant, dubbed the \\"Frant Dragon\\", is a rather plain version of Teresa, but she has loved Alec from afar for years.  Having little choice, Alec marries Julia, but only after he agrees to a marriage of convenience and to give her half of the inheritance.  By marrying Alec, Julia plans to support her charities and reform her wild husband. With the help of \\"Aunt Maddie\\", Julia eventually transforms from ugly duckling to beautiful swan, and Alec can't help noticing.  As their desire for each other grows, so does the danger of scandal from Julia's continued charity reform work.<br />I read this book because it is listed on the Romance Writers of America's top ten list for the year it was published. And I have to say I expected more and was disappointed. There were some humorous moments and I liked the secondary characters of:  the outspoken Aunt Maddie, silly Edmund and Alec's sexy, bad boy cousin, Nick.  In fact, I felt like Aunt Maddie was a pretty well developed character, but she didn't seem to be used enough in the story. There were a few plot elements I found rather annoying. One example is when Nick told Julia about the girl who needed saving, she immediately hired her as a servant at their home.  Now Julia's a smart girl, and she knew Nick was trying to cause Alec a scandal, so I wonder if that was a set-up??!  There was also only one love scene and it wasn't very descriptive. <br />Having said all that, overall it was not a bad book, but really nothing special. This was my first Hawkins read, and I'm willing to give her another try.  Plus, I am interested in reading Nick's story.  As for a recommendation, there's so much out there that's better. But if you're a Hawkins' fan, then you'll probably wantto read this one.	2004-03-14
US	43420620	R1PSB9821KY043	0373484429	666170685	Reflections And Dreams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love Entwined With Ballet...	This is an anthology of two stories, both by Nora Roberts. <br />In &quot;Reflections&quot;, Lindsay Dunne was a principal dancer in a New York ballet company until her father was killed in an accident, and her mother badly injured. Forced to put her dance career on hold, she returned home to Connecticut to care for her mother. Now she teaches ballet at her studio, and has found a very promising student in the new girl in town, Ruth Bannion. Lindsay would like to send Ruth to New York to further her training, under the instruction of her previous dance partner, Nikolai Davidov. However, Lindsay has found an obstacle in the girl's uncle and guardian, Seth Bannion. Seth is the darkly handsome architect who recently bought Cliff House, a large oceanside home which Lindsay explored as a child, and swore to someday live. Their clash of wills over Ruth's future leads them to consider a future together.<br />&quot;Dance of Dreams&quot; is the story of Ruth and Nikolai who were introduced in &quot;Reflections&quot;. Ruth is now in New York dancing under the experienced direction of Nick, the passionate and temperamental Russian heading the troupe. Ruth shows great promise of becoming a prima ballerina, and it's not long before their partnership extends off the dance floor.<br />I have read several books by Nora Roberts and she has never disappointed me yet. This book is no exception. These stories were originally released separately in 1983, but have amazingly stood the test of time. Both stories are very good, but my favorite is the second, &quot;Dance of Dreams&quot;. I just love the temperamental Nikolai, and those two really sizzle on and off the dance floor! If it were possible, I'd give 4 stars to the first story, &quot;Reflections&quot;, and 5 stars to &quot;Dance of Dreams&quot;. This book would make an especially good summer read.	2004-03-13
US	43420620	R2K2LB84I0V5FO	0060092653	963454545	Scandalous Again: Switching Places #1 (Switching Places Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Worthwhile Read....	The duke has lost his daughter, Madeline de Lacy, the future duchess of Magnus, to a total stranger in a card game. Madeline's betrothed has urgently requested her presence at his home. While en route, Madeline, accompanied by her companion and cousin, Eleanor de Lacy, make a stop at the house of a notorious gambler. Madeline is sure her father must be there, for what is taking place is being dubbed &quot;the game of the century&quot;. Trading places with her look alike cousin Eleanor, Madeline poses as a companion while attempting to keep her father from gambling away their remaining family fortune. If matters weren't bad enough, also at this game is Gabriel Ansell, the earl of Campion. The man Madeline was engaged to four years ago. She's never forgotten how he betrayed her. He's never forgotten how she ran out on him so easily. But the increasing danger present at this gambler's house just may pull them together again.<br />This is the first installment in the trading places series. I'm a huge fan of Ms. Dodd's work, and have read most everything she's written. While all of it is good, this particular book was not one of my favorites. There is a dark, almost brooding mood to this story, and it lacks the humor she does so well. Overall, the story is good, the writing wonderful, and the love scenes steamy. I really liked the supporting character of Gabriel's valet, MacAllister, because he did add a note of humor to the story. The sequel, &quot;One Kiss From You&quot;, which is Eleanor's story, is the better of the two. So while this is not Ms. Dodd's best work, it's still a worthwhile read. And if you're like me - if it has her name on it, you just gotta' read it!	2004-03-13
US	43420620	R8QHJPOWNB7OQ	0515107662	135529800	The Sherbrooke Bride (Bride Series, Book 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Funny Love Story...	Douglas Sherbrooke, Earl of Northcliffe, must marry and provide the prerequisite heir. His choice is Melissande, daughter of the Duke of Beresford. One look at the beautiful but shallow girl turns grown men into quivering fools. The responsible Alexandra Chambers, Melissande's sister, has loved Douglas since she was fifteen. When Douglas sends his best friend to marry him to Melissande by proxy, he ends up wedded to the wrong sister. Now the always-in-control Douglas must deal with a wife he didn't want, and the Virgin Bride ghost which makes regular appearances in the countess' bedchamber. <br />This was my first read by Catherine Coulter and it certainly won't be my last. This is also the first installment in the Bride Trilogy which I plan to finish. My favorite type of story is a romance with a good dose of humor. A little intrigue added in doesn't hurt either. While this story has all three of those elements, the intrigue portion was my least favorite here. The rescue of the french woman at the beginning, and especially the kidnapping with subsequent rescue toward the end, seemed rather hokey. Plus, it only served to distract from the main focus of this story which was the relationship betwen Douglas and Alexandra, thrown in with all the wonderful supporting characters. The events and humor that take place while these normally level-headed people learn to deal with each other is priceless!<br />To sum it all up- I deducted one star for the silly intrigue subplot which would've been better left out. But even at four stars, I still very much recommend this book for it's other great qualities.	2004-03-13
US	43420620	R1CVQKF5J3ANGU	0380756293	758003969	The Magic of You (Malory Novels)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Just Average...	Amy Malory has set her sights on Warren Anderson, an American ship captain who almost had her uncle hung for piracy. Warren tries to avoid her and fight his growing attraction. She chases him relentlessly. They end up being kidnapped, and held captive on a ship together, to voyage across an ocean. She continues to pursue, and he continues to resist her advances until finally, he gives in (of course).<br />It's been awhile since I've read this, and I haven't read any of the other Malory series books. Compared to other romance novels I've read, this is far from the best. I've read a couple of Lindsey's books, but I haven't found anything special about them, and have since quit reading her work. The story started out pretty good, then they were kidnapped and put on the ship. It just felt like the story took this odd, unexpected, and not so great, turn of events. Once Warren finally gives in to Amy's advances, (and we did have to wait a long time), the lack of description was a letdown. On the positive side, I did like Amy being the aggressor and the humor was pretty good. Bottom line: the book was just average, and unless you're a Lindsey fan, I'd skip it.	2004-03-12
US	43420620	RBXBUSH3IJZ36	067101417X	354206388	High Tide	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Don't Waste Your Time...	Fiona Burkenhalter, a New York toy executive, sets out on a mandated fishing expedition in the Florida Everglades, along with a big client of her company. Fiona is the creator of the Kimberly doll, Barbie's competition. Once in Florida, she saves the life of Ace Montgomery, who is being attacked by a huge alligator in the airport. Well, this is what she thinks. The alligator is actually mechanical, expensive, and Ace's last ditch effort to save his park in the Everglades by bringing in more tourism. He's furious and she gets sent to jail.<br />Once she gets to the park for the fishing expedition, Ace is the guide (of course), and their mutual animosity hides their growing attraction (of course, again).  At this point I'm thinking... this is pretty good - has promise. Well, then Fiona wakes up with a dead man on top of her who has been stabbed with a knife, which makes her appear the prime murder suspect. Ace is her only ally. Their faces and the murder end up plastered on front pages of newspapers and now they're on the run together. And I'm thinking...okay, I kind of like the on the run from the law angle - it's got possibilities. <br />However, the rest of the story is a convuluted mess. People trying to kill them, billionaire families, treasure maps, hiking through the jungle, posing as a couple in a condo community and more dead bodies.  Now I'm thinking...HUH?????. <br />This was my first Jude Deveraux novel, and yes, I have tortured myself by reading others. The writing is good but the story is ludicrous. And the kicker is, this is the best book of hers I've read. I gave it two stars based on her writing ability. Bottom line... don't waste your time. For a good contemporary romance try Susan Elizabeth Phillips, Jennifer Crusie or Rachel Gibson.	2004-03-12
US	43420620	R12PVEDSLJLKRL	0671871005	65713554	The Wedding	Books	3	19	23	N	N	A bit disappointing......	Lady Brenna's father has decided she is to marry a Scottish Highlander and quickly packs her up to marry her betrothed. During her trip from England to Scotland, her party is waylaid by a war-painted band of warriors, who insist Lady Brenna marry their laird, Conner MacAlister. Brenna remembers how, as a child, she proposed to Conner while he visited her family's home. Conner was raised and taught by Alec Kincaid (from \\"The Bride\\")  after his father and family were ambushed and killed while he was a child. Brenna is unaware their marriage is merely one step in the revenge plot against her betrothed. She has many obstacles to deal with once she reaches her Scottish Highland home. She must learn their customs in order to fit in & she has to deal with her controlling mother-in-law, a lecherous brother-in-law, and her rather aloof husband who doesn't plan on sticking around much.<br />The prequel, \\"The Bride\\", was the first book I had read by Julie Garwood and I read this one right after. While \\"The Bride\\" was wonderful, this novel just didn't measure up. I found the character of Brenna rather annoying with her losing things all the time, and letting her mother-in-law continually run over her. I mean I can understand initially how she would want to fit in with her new family, and try to please the old battle-axe, but enough is enough! What woman would really believe her mother-in-law when she tells her it's okay to allow her husband's stepbrother's sexual advances?!! This would be weird in most cultures & especially in a culture where the men are so possessive of their women.<br />Overall the story wasn't bad, but too much of it was similar to \\"The Bride\\", and it's rather lackluster in comparison. I liked some of the secondary characters- Quinlan comes to mind, and there were some humorous moments. My actual rating would have been 2 1/2 stars if that were possible, but I gave it the benefit of the doubt and 3 stars for: the overall writing which was good, the charactersother than Brenna, a decent mystery plot, and the humor. My recommendation though would be to read \\"The Bride\\" and skip this one. You won't be missing much.	2004-03-11
US	43420620	R2V00OAT1CYCPH	0671737791	378094364	The Bride	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Everything I Look For In A Romance!!	Alec Kincaid, a powerful Scottish laird, must marry an English woman by order of the king. He would have his choice of the Jamison girls, except Jamie, who was hidden away by her lazy, self-serving father. Once Alec finds out about Jamie, he insists on her. But with her headstrong ways, are the Scottish Highlands ready for Jamie? Jamie's big heart and hidden talents of hunting and shooting better than most men, riding bareback, healing the sick and speaking their native Gaelic tongue soon win her husband and people over. However, she turns the Highlands upside down and starts three clan wars in her first week! <br />This is a beautiful, heart warming love story betwen two strong main characters. There is a healthy dose of humor infused in this story as well. One of my favorite examples is how she pays the priest her worthless shillings to buy Alec indulgences for sins such as killing. He's a warrior - so she pays a lot of shillings! There is also a mystery to solve because the person who killed Alec's first wife is also after Jamie. It'll keep you guessing as to the culprit - it took me quite awhile to figure it out.<br />This was my first read by Julie Garwood and a winner across the board. The sequel is titled &quot;The Wedding&quot;.	2004-03-11
US	43420620	R2TA5C98546366	0380782340	229000740	Nobody's Baby But Mine	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Baby ,You're The Best!!	Dr. Jane Darlington, a genius physics professor, wants nothing more than to have a baby. She has a couple of obstacles in her way though. She currently has no prospects for the father. And growing up as a genius made her feel like a freak, so she wants to spare her child this pain. Therefore, she needs a very special man. A stupid man. When she sees Cal Bonner, the famous Chicago Stars quarterback, her prayers seem to be answered. He's handsome, a jock, and with his good ol' boy ways, he must be slow-witted. But when he figures out what she's done, he's not about to go along blindly with her plans. On top of that, Jane begins to realize, a little too late, Cal may be a whole lot smarter than he looks. <br />This is the third installment in the Chicago Stars/Bonner Brothers series. A funny, fast-paced, interesting love story between real people, each with their own set of insecurities. <br />SEP has an uncanny gift with writing complex, three dimensional characters. They become so real, I half expect to look up from the page and find them in the room with me. Her stories and characters wiggle themselves under your skin and in your heart where they stay. <br />There is a secondary story with Cal's parents that was quite good as well. Overall, I certainly enjoyed this book, except it was difficult getting through the portion where Cal was so angry and spiteful toward her. Even after considering this, it's still a favorite book of mine. Once Jane decides she will no longer sit back and tolerate his behavior, well then it really gets good! I still smile every time I see a box of Lucky Charms cereal!	2004-03-10
US	43420620	RPVLB1ZTRXRYF	0671723413	298566409	Surrender a Dream	Books	5	2	2	N	N	It Doesn't Get Any Better Than This!!	Adelaide Amanda Pinkney was growing tired of her native Chicago's bustling crowds and growing poverty problems. Plus, after the loss of both her parents, she was without family other than her aunt and uncle who own a farm in California. Once she receives news they've perished in an accident and left her the farm, she's only too happy to make the permanent trip out west. Reaching California, she discovers there's another claim on her land in the form of Montana Creed. Tall and rugged, Montana as a child watched his father slaughtered and his land stolen by the railroad. He pledged one day to own his own land to continue his father's dream. When these two lonely, stubborn souls collide in a battle of wills, they just may gain more than a mere piece of land. <br />Normally, I don't get into historicals set in the old West. But this book has quickly become one of my favorites, and definitely one of Jill Barnett's best. The battle of wills between these two characters leads to some hilarious moments. A funny and touching feel-good book. There is an accident, which occurs toward the end, that changes the overall feel of the story from sweet and funny back to more serious (the very beginning is also serious). But the changes in mood are well done and we still get the ultimate ending we're all looking for. <br />I've read most of Ms. Barnett's work and have yet to find a novel of hers I didn't like. You just can't go wrong with her!	2004-03-10
US	43420620	R1NB2KAIH8356I	0380776847	400994620	Heaven, Texas (Chicago Stars)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Reading This Book Was Heaven......	Ohio native, Gracie Snow, has always taken care of others. Now she is looking for adventure with her new job which includes escorting ex-NFL football star, Bobby Tom Denton, back home to Heaven, Texas to shoot a movie. Bobby Tom has no plans to cooperate with this bossy-mouth, plain Jane with the bad perm and lack of fashion sense. Once Gracie starts posing as Bobby Tom's fiance, to keep unwanted female attention away from this playboy, he orchestrates her makeover. But when the makeover draws a little too much attention to Gracie, well then what's a guy to do?<br />On a scale of 1 to 10, this book is a 50. It's funny and fast-paced with well-developed, multi-layered, beautifully flawed characters. This was my first read by SEP, and since then I read everything of hers I can put my hands on. Words are not adequate to express how wonderful her books are, and how talented this lady is.<br />Prior to reading Heaven, Texas, I had dismissed her books on several occasions. It was after looking at someone's list of  favorite romance novels with humor, here on Amazon, that I picked up this book. Not being a football fan in the least made me even more skeptical. I have now read all the books but one in the Chicago Stars/Bonner Brothers series. They're all great, but Heaven, Texas is extra special. Bobby Tom Denton is my favorite hero ever written in a book! I just love all that crapola that comes out of his mouth, and I will never look at ice cream the same way again!!!	2004-03-08
US	43420620	R19ZF2EEZEQCIO	0061031755	327922976	The Promise in a Kiss (A Cynster Christmas Special)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It all started with just one kiss....	Helena first meets Sebastian Cynster when he literally falls at her feet, then proceeds to kiss her under the mistletoe. Seven years later, Helena has left her native France for London to find a manageable husband, and finally release herself from her guardian's thumb. Upon their meeting again in a London ballroom, she discovers Sebastian is the Duke of St. Ives and he's a passionate pursuer.<br />This is one of a whole series of novels centered on the Bar Cynster family. This story, which was written after some of the others, goes back in time to the love story of the patriarch (Sebastian) of the clan. Although there is a conflict to be solved concerning the manipulative plans Helena's guardian has for her, this is mostly a love story surrounding how these two characters come together.<br />I've read a total of three or four of Ms. Lauren's books, but this one was my first and favorite. Overall, I feel this was a good read and a great love story. Her stories tend to be brooding but quite sensual. I gave it four stars, instead of five, for a couple of reasons. First, the intrigue between Helena, Sebastian, and her guardian was for me rather anticlimatic in it's resolution. I'll leave it at that so the ending isn't given away. Secondly, the thing with Ms. Lauren's novels is they're all relatively the same. She doesn't do much with subplots, so I became bored and no longer read her work. If you read her novels and like them, you'll like this one. However, after reading some of the other reviews of this book, I would like to add the fact I haven't read the novel where Sebastian was unfaithful to Helena. It upsets me to find it out now. I believe if I had read that particular book, and knew that fact beforehand, it would most likely change my view of this story. If you've never read Ms. Laurens previously, I still feel this would be a good choice to try her out.	2004-03-08
US	43420620	R17SX1U2PQ68GZ	0312974256	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Take A Trip To Temptation!!	Sophie Dempsey and her sister, Amy, who together tape weddings for a living come to small town Temptation, Ohio. Their assignment is taping a simple video documentary which turns into something a little more erotic. When Sophie meets sexy mayor, Phineas Tucker, he shakes her hand and utters two of my most favorite lines from this book, \\"Hello Sophie Dempsey. Welcome to Temptation.\\" Well, then the games really begin. <br />This book is a non-stop, roller coaster riot once you throw in Sophie's con artist roots, a phallic-shaped water tower, murder, adultery, blackmail, a very abused corpse, a porn king and some really great, if not a little kinky, sex. I laughed throughout this entire book and never wanted it to end. <br />This was my first Jennifer Crusie read, but it certainly won't be my last. There's a good reason she has several novels on the Romance Writers of America's yearly top ten list.<br />One word of caution though, the language is definitely rated \\"R\\". While there's one particular four letter word used a lot more often than I usually like to read, it certainly doesn't change my opinion on how excellent this book is!	2004-03-08
US	43420620	R1YL54YGW150FS	074343787X	654401223	The Devil You Know (Rutledge Family, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Unforgettable.....	Frederica d' Avillez has just been jilted by her long-time beau for another woman, and is sure she'll never marry. And just maybe she's always been a little attracted to that scandalous rake, Bentley &quot;Hell-Bent&quot; Rutledge. So maybe Bentley can help her forget her troubles, and she certainly doesn't want to &quot;die a dried-up old virgin&quot;! Their time together has consequences and leads to a misunderstanding. Freddie soon discovers Bentley's infamous behavior has been his way of running from the dark secrets of his past.<br />This is the third novel centered on the Rutledge family. Normally I don't particularly like books that involve &quot;the misunderstanding&quot; device. This, however, is a rare and wonderful exception. Bentley is a bad boy you just gotta love! And the love scenes (which start in chapter one!), literally smolder off the pages. Even though there's not much new here for a romance storyline, it's so beautifully well-written it ceases to matter. I highly recommmend this book as one of my absolute all-time favorite romance novels.	2004-03-08
US	43420620	RM24OIAR8XDZA	0671778633	119994188	Bewitching	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Absolutely Enchanting!!!	Joyous Fiona MacQuarrie is part Scottish and part blue-blooded English, part mortal and part witch, but mostly she's all heart. She takes the time to notice all the ordinary magic of life surrounding her. Her witch's magic, however, has a habit of going astray quite often which leads to some very humorous moments. It also leads her to literally land on Alec Castlemaine, Duke of Belmore, who is humorless, rigid and lives his life by a predictable schedule which doesn't include frivolity of any kind. When these polar opposites meet, it's up to Joy to melt the wall of ice around Alec's heart with her own special magic.<br />This fairy tale love story is beautifully crafted and full of Ms. Barnett's trademark humor. I absolutely loved the characters of Joy and her wheezing sidekick weasel, Beelzebub.<br />Once started, this book is difficult to put down. This is the prequel to Dreaming, one of my top 10 favorite romance novels of all time!(which I accidently read first) Dreaming is the story of Letitia &amp; Richard who are introduced in this book. <br />Jill Barnett is one my favorite authors &amp; I've just about worked my way through everything she has written. All of it is wonderful, but Bewitching is one of her best.	2004-03-07
US	43420620	R23PHKXMXOEOXQ	0743437845	922629044	No True Gentleman (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not Her Best Work.....	Lady Catherine Wodeway, who is lonely since the loss of her husband almost two years prior, leaves her country home for London to spend time with her aunt. Her difficulties sleeping lead her to take early morning rides in Hyde Park where she runs into Maximilian de Rohan, a darkly arresting Italian magistrate investigating police corruption and the recent murder of a countess. Once they become involved, she helps with the investigation and ends up in the clutches of the murderer.<br />First, on the positive side, Ms. Carlyle is an excellent storyteller. Her writing is smooth and seamless and this book shows that talent. I liked the well-developed characters of Catherine and Max, as well as his crafty, Tarot card reading grandmother, Signora Castelli. Overall, I liked the murder mystery which will leave you guessing almost until the end. (I had an idea on the culprit, but certainly didn't figure out the whole story.) The love scenes were intensely erotic. <br />Now for the negative. The book was too long - 447 pages. That's a good 100 pages more than the usual. There are a lot of characters in this book, and it felt like they were all introduced in the first couple of chapters. This left me confused initially, although I did eventually sort them all out. Catherine and Max weren't together all that much in the first half of the book, which left me wondering how they had managed to fall in love. There seemed to be more focus on the murder mystery, rather than the love story, and I had to force myself not to skip ahead.<br />Apparently this is one book in a series about the Rutledge family. I have already read, &quot;The Devil You Know&quot;, which was written after this one. It focuses on Catherine's bad boy brother, Bentley, and is one of my all time favorite romance novels. As for this one, I agree with a previous reviewer. If you predominantly like mysteries with romance as secondary, read it, otherwise I'd skip it to read &quot;The Devil You Know&quot;.	2004-03-07
US	43420620	R392H9CCVL1LFH	0312983751	70656303	Take a Chance on Me	Books	2	9	14	N	N	NOT Worth The Chance!!	I'm an avid reader of romance novels and I wasn't impressed with this one.<br />On the positive side, it looks like Ms. Donovan is a new author and I do see potential for improvement in future works.  Hairy the dog, a 6 1/2 pound, hairless, Chinese Crested was quite funny. Plus, she did a good job of giving him \\"a voice\\" periodically. My actual rating would be 2 1/2 stars if this were possible, because of Hairy.<br />Despite the funny moments surrounding Hairy, the remainder of the book was way too unrealistic and events too coincidental. I don't expect a whole lot of realism in a romance novel, but this romance was just too cheesy.  I found myself groaning aloud at phrases like \\"...great arcs of heat lightning shooting from the guy right into her ovaries\\", \\"He wanted to open her up like a new Wal-mart\\", and the term \\"whoop-ass\\" which is used more than once! Ugh!! By halfway through, I had to force myself to finish it. By the last few pages, I could care less what happened. I cannot recommend this book. Instead, for a great contemporary read, try Rachel Gibson, Jennifer Crusie or Susan Elizabeth Phillips.	2004-03-06
US	43420620	R1V2ADWQDOFK4K	0060092661	982289135	One Kiss From You: Switching Places #2 (Switching Places Series)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	DELICIOUS!!	I couldn't hardly wait for this book to be published! I discovered Christina Dodd when a family member loaned me one of her Governess Series books, &amp; now I read everything of hers I can find. She is one of the most talented romance writers of today &amp; by far my favorite. &quot;One Kiss From You&quot; is the sequel to &quot;Scandalous Again&quot;, her first installment of the Trading Places series. Although I enjoyed &quot;Scandalous Again&quot;, this book is even better. One of the things I enjoy the most is her rare ability to combine great romance, steamy love scenes, a keen sense of humor, and some type of mystery. This book contains all those elements. What more could you ask for?! A word of warning though... you may want to have a glass of ice water and a fan nearby while reading this novel.	2004-01-03
