US	43445465	RUMMDBNI21AKE	1566917700	642407219	Foghorn Outdoors California Waterfalls: More Than 200 Falls You Can Reach by Foot, Car, or Bike	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Water Water Everywhere	Just last weekend I went to Monrovia Canyon Falls.  Record rainfall this year (2005) has put an end to a multiyear drought and the streams are flowing nicely.  The falls in Monrovia Canyon were stunning, and I found myself simply sitting beside them enjoying their wonderful music.  This for me is the ultimate in hiking.  If you feel the same way, be sure to pick up the new edition of California Waterfalls.<br /><br />The author, Ann Marie Brown, is arguably the best outdoor writer in California.  I have gradually adopted her philosophy that dayhikers enjoy \\"more smiles per mile\\" than backpackers as my own. Her approach is always to provide the maximum scenic return for any hike she includes in one of her many guides.  And, while there are several outdoor writers producing \\"peak guides\\" she is the only one with a waterfall guide.  It is a joy to read and even more fun to hike.  The main change in the new edition is that hikes are organized now by the same geographic scheme used in California Hiking, a book Brown co-authors with Tom Stienstra.  Photos are somewhat sharper as well. I've personally hiked to about 30 of the more than 200 waterfalls she describes and have never been disappointed.  You won't be either.	2005-04-25
US	43445465	RGJYUTQMM0HKG	0899973779	953953971	Trails of the Angeles: 100 Hikes in the San Gabriels	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Review of 8th Edition	With this, the 8th and (for John Robinson) last edition of 'Trails of the Angeles' Southern California Hikers are given some new features to an old classic.  The table of contents now lists all of the hikes individually, and a summary of hikes appears at the end of the book.  Readers are also introduced to the new author, Doug Christiansen, who is taking over future updates to the book as Robinson's advancing age is starting to hinder his work.  For his part, Christiansen promises to keep the text as close to Robinson's original as possible.<br /><br />So why should you buy this book?  Simply put, it is the best hiking guide to the San Gabriel Mountain Range in Southern California.  Like all Wilderness Press Books, 'Trails of the Angeles' includes substantial coverage of natural and human history in the area.  An excellent topographical map, with numerous details, is also included.  But best of all are the 100 hikes that continue to offer challenges to generations of hikers.  Readers should note that these are not easy walks of a mile or two.  The average walk described in the book is over 8 miles and includes substantial elevation gain.  But you will be amply rewarded by getting a genuine wilderness experience within an hour or so drive from LA.  This is the big draw of a book that has been continuously in print for 35 years.  What a joy to discover that it will continue to be updated for the foreseeable future.	2005-04-25
US	43445465	R30RBKZJSWNLTQ	0899971881	87631850	50 Best Short Hikes in California Deserts (Hiking & Biking)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Kid Friendly Introduction to the California Desert	I own three guides written by John Krist and immensely enjoy both his writing style and approach to hiking.  Unlike some Wilderness Press authors, Krist focuses on walks virtually anyone can enjoy.  Long arduous treks of 10 or more miles simply do not appear in his books.  Instead one is treated to a wide variety of short and pleasant outings. He even includes a \\"Child Rating\\" for each hike to help parents decide where to take their kids.  Although I tend to prefer mountain and coastal hiking to walking in the desert, I have managed over the years to walk most of the trails in this book and generally found them pleasant breaks from my usual hiking routine.<br /><br />I am therefore somewhat surprised by the complaints of other reviewers.  I found his maps easy to understand and use.  His trail descriptions include adequate directions to the trailhead.  Finally, Krist gives a solid introduction to natural and human history in the parks without being overly technical.  I find this sort of background information adds to my enjoyment of a region.  The only reason I give this book four stars and not five is for what Krist does not cover.  It is simply unthinkable that a book on California Deserts should ignore Anza Borrego Desert State Park.  For coverage of that region you simply need to look elsewhere.  But the hikes Krist includes here are all winners.	2005-04-22
US	43445465	RJK8PVEA6BX99	1560449764	930913634	Best Easy Day Hikes Anza-Borrego (Best Easy Day Hikes Series)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	For Budding Desert Rats	I am generally somewhat partisan towards hiking in mountains and among forests but every now and again, especially during the Spring after a good rainy season, I like to go to the desert and see the (sometimes) spectacular flower bloom.  Anza-Borrego State Park is a great place for this sort of activity and this edition of \\"Best Easy Dayhikes\\" is a nice guide to the hiking alternatives in the area.<br /><br />This book is actually an exerpt from a much larger Falcon Press book, 'Hiking California's Desert Parks' by the same authors.  As with other books in the 'Best Easy Dayhikes' series, the focus here is on short walks with relatively minimal elevation gains.  In this the authors do an excellent job.  Only three of the twenty hikes exceed 3 miles in length.  Many are less than a mile.  And all of the trails I took from this guide were delightful.  It's almost enough to tempt me into spending more time in the desert.	2005-04-21
US	43445465	R349RWU3CDDY2B	0898867169	937885406	Best Short Hikes in Redwood National and State Parks	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	Super Hiking among the Northern California Redwoods	One would be hard pressed to find better authors for a hiking guide to the Northern California Redwood Forests.  Jerry and Gisela Rohde have already published two excellent travel guides to the area and their works are a delight to read.  Perhaps the single best feature of this book is that the authors actually limited themselves to describing only short and easy walks in the region. (This is in sharp contrast to some of the other Mountaineers Press \\"Short Hikes\\" guides which have been known to include 22 mile hikes!) Of the sixty-four hikes included in this book, twelve are less than a mile, and only seven exceed 5 miles.  Literally anyone can find a walk suited to them among those listed in this book.<br /><br />This book has several other nice aspects as well.  Mileages for trails are accurate to within 1/20 (.05) miles.  The Rohde's also provide graphic representations of the amount of elevation you can expect to gain or lose over the course of a hike.  Finally, each hike includes a sketch map of the trail and most include stunning black and white photographs that are almost worth the price of the book alone.<br /><br />If I have any complaint at all about this book, it is that I would have begun coverage of the North Coast Redwoods at Richardson Grove State Park rather than Humbolt Redwoods.  Richardson Grove appears right after you cross the Humbolt County line while traveling north on Hwy 101.  It is at this point you truly know you are in Redwood Country.  The many beautiful trails there merit a visit if you are coming into Humbolt county from the south.<br /><br />That said, the authors are to be commended for including Humbolt Redwoods State Park since it is outside the boundaries of the National Park and often overlooked.  I personally think the F.K. Lane Grove walk (Hike 1 in this book) is the single best stroll among redwoods in the state.  Humbolt Redwoods State Park is also the location of the tallest redwood trees, National Park claims to the contrary notwithstanding.  Prarie Creek Redwoods State Park also receives much needed attention in this volume. I hope to spend several days there the next time I go north.<br /><br />This book is simply a \\"must buy.\\"  Any trip to the Northern California Coast without it is incomplete.  Also be sure to pick up the authors' other two books.  They contain delightful local histories of the region and are a joy to read.arie Creek Redwoods State Park also receives much needed attention in this volume. I hope to spend several days there the next time I go north.    This book is simply a \\"must buy.\\"  Any trip to the Northern California Coast without it is incomplete.  Also be sure to pick up the authors' other two books.  They contain delightful local histories of the region and are a joy to read.	2005-04-17
US	43445465	R1LX50JNI9N5KC	1566916887	934527479	Foghorn Outdoors California Hiking: The Complete Guide to More Than 1,000 Hikes	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Not quite 1000, but a nice survey nonetheless	Writing a hiking guide for the whole state of California is quite an ambitious task.  By and large Ann Marie Brown and Tom Stienstra have succeeded.  Over the course of 16 chapters, each covering a broad geographical region of the state, they have provided lists of the best hikes in almost any area that one could visit in California.  They also provide nice maps of each region they survey showing the approximate location of each trailhead.  For those who like exploring in the golden state, this is an excellent book.  I have personally hiked over 200 trails in this book and enjoyed almost every one.  I look forward to using this book in the future as well.<br /><br />Having said that, a few caveats are in order.  First, the book does not list \\"over 1000\\" hikes.  Earlier editions did, but many trails have been dropped from this edition.  Gone is the Amos Alonzo Stagg tree, a nice walk to the 7th largest sequoia.  Trips to Peppermint Creek and Nobe Young Falls are also absent.  Some of these hikes have been replaced by others, but on the whole there are fewer trails listed than in previous editions.  Second, the book has a strong bias towards Northern California.  Not surprisingly, both authors happen to live there now.  Of the 964 hikes in this guide, only 317 are south of the Monterey area.  I could add numerous trails from the San Bernardino Mountains alone to this book.  Finally, you should not expect trail maps in a book of this scope.  The authors do, however, tell you where to obtain maps for each trail listed.<br /><br />These caveats aside, you should purchase this book.  It is a great introduction to hiking in California.  Once you begin exploring trails in any region you will undoubtably find others to entice you.  Happy trails.	2005-04-14
US	43445465	R24SS6SECNUACR	1558688501	53936784	Peninsula Tales and Trails: Commemorating the Thir (Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Local History, Hiking and More!	The Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District came into existence in 1972 as the result of an overwhelming vote in 1972 to preserve lands from rapid development.  In 1976 the \\"open space\\" concept was extended into San Mateo county and in the nearly 30 years since the MROSD has come to manage almost 50,000 acres in an area where even small amounts of real estate command a huge premium.  Divided among 24 separate \\"preserves\\" and managed for low impact recreation, MROSD lands protect much of the natural beauty of the bay area.<br /><br />An accomplished hiking guide author, Weintraub's book does indeed list and describe one or more trails in each preserve.  Distances covered range from short half-mile strolls in Foothill Open Space and Skyline Preserves to a 10+ mile jaunt through Purisima Creek Redwood Preserve.  The vast majority of the hikes however are 5 miles or less and are more suitable for a contemplative walk than a strenuous workout.  Accompanying the descriptions are some useful map sketches with mileage between key points carefully delineated.<br /><br />The hikes, however, are not the centerpiece of the book.  The real highlights are the local history selections.  In addition to relating the history of MPOSD, Weintraub delves into the local history of each preserve.  Old photos accompany Weintraub's descriptions of historical logging in the Purisima Creek area, wine making at Picchetti Ranch, and the former stables of Los Tracos Reserve.  Better yet, Weintraub's talent as a professional photographer shows in the many beautiful plates and pictures that adorn this book and capture the beauty of the bay area.  Finally, the book has numerous interesting sidebars that cover everything from wildlife in the area to the mechanics of trail building and maintenance.<br /><br />Local history buffs and frequent hikers in the south bay area will certainly want to purchase this book.  As a hiking guide it is a little limited.  Unlike Weintraub's other guide books from Wilderness Press, this one is more narrowly focused. The reader is compensated by getting more wonderful prose and photos than the traditional guide book format allows.  All factors considered, this is a wonderful book.s from Wilderness Press, this one is more narrowly focused. The reader is compensated by getting more wonderful prose and photos than the traditional guide book format allows.  All factors considered, this is a wonderful book.	2005-04-01
US	43445465	R1FO4ULXXP7CML	0899973493	102018445	Top Trails Lake Tahoe	Books	4	42	43	N	Y	Not for the Casual Walker	Mike White's contribution to the Top Trails series has some spectacular hikes.  People who are heavily into the sport will really enjoy the book.  Included are hikes up Mt. Rose, the highest peak in the Tahoe basin and long segments of the Tahoe Rim Trail.  But this book is not for the faint of heart.  Most of the route descriptions in the book exceed 9 miles and several exceed 15 miles.  Moreover, these miles involve considerable elevation gain.<br /><br />White does include some shorter walks.  The Tahoe Meadows Whole Access Trail is the best of these.  Sugar Pine Point also receives some much deserved attention.  But the bottom line is that you will need to be in excellent physical condition to fully appreciate what this book has to offer.  So if you enjoy strenuous all day treks that offer stunning scenery in return for your efforts, this is the book for you.  But if you want a guide to the many pretty nature trails that surround Lake Tahoe, you will have to look elsewhere.  Moreso than other books in the Top Trails series, this book is for serious hikers that like to push the limits of their endurance.	2004-08-12
US	43445465	RCJJRUIFTXTAO	0899972489	368416695	Monterey Bay Trails	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Pleasant Day Hikes near Monterey Bay	After a beautiful weekend in Big Basin Redwoods State Park my wife and I were not terribly eager to end our Memorial Day vacation by taking the direct route back home to Southern California.  So we went by way of the coast and stopped at Point Lobos State Preserve near Carmel for some short walks.  We were stunned at the scenery and immediately vowed to return.  This is not the first time we have had such experiences around Monterey.  The area is simply ideal for walking.  The scenery is so delightful and the weather so mild that it demands a good guidebook and Weintraub's book certainly fulfills that role.<br />This book details 48 hikes in some 28 different state and county parks or other public lands.  Most of the routes described are short pleasant walks.  Fully 75% of the trails are under 5 miles and only two exceed 10 miles.  (One of these, the Waterfall loop in Big Basin, is an absolutely mandatory hike.  It is one of the most beautiful waterfalls in the state.)  Each route description includes a topographical map.<br />This book covers some of my favorite areas:  Point Lobos, Big Basin, Henry Cowell Redwoods and surprisingly Pinnacles National Monument.  I've done some exploration in all these places.  But this book has made me aware of so many other nice parks in the region.  After reading Weintraub's descriptions I'm looking forward to visiting Garrapata State Park, Jacks Peak County Park, and some of the wonderful beaches around the bay.  In short, this is an excellent book for planning a vacation around.  It is well worth the price.	2004-07-10
US	43445465	R3PYAP9YSFQ3J7	1566916607	200454879	Foghorn Outdoors Easy Hiking in Southern California	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Still the best comprehensive Guide	When I put together my Amazon list of Southern California hiking guides some time ago, I listed Ms. Brown's book as the best of the comprehensive guidebooks to the area.  Since then several good books have been published including Rod Adkinson's 'Southern California Hiking' and Jerry Schad's 'Top Trails: Los Angeles.'  Nonetheless, I still find myself looking at Brown's book first when I want to go somewhere new, although that is getting harder and harder to do since I have walked over 60% of the trips described in this book.  Simply put, it is still the best book on the market.<br />Generally speaking, an &quot;easy&quot; hike in Brown's book is less than 5 miles long and can be walked by just about anyone.  Although short, the trails are scenic and often lead to relatively isolated destinations.  Some of the wonderful hikes Brown describes in this guide include Mt. Waterman in the Angeles National Forest, the &quot;Champion&quot; Lodgepole in the San Bernardino Mountains, and Needles Lookout in the newly created Sequoia National Monument.  For those who want more hiking she often includes notes to make the trips &quot;more challenging.&quot; But even when these notes are not included hikers can often combine two or more trips from this guide.  On a recent visit to Sierra National Forest, I did the Fresno Dome hike and the Shadow of the Giants walk in Nelder Sequoia Grove on the same afternoon.  Both are short beautiful walks and I found ample additional trails nearby to fill out my visit.<br />Some other reviewers have complained about a lack of maps.  I too wonder why Foghorn Press does not include short sketches of the trails in their guides.  That said, I have never gotten lost on any of the trails in this guidebook.  They are all very well marked and easy to follow.  So, if you are a beginning hiker or someone who is looking to go someplace new and scenic in Southern California, this book is still the first place to look.	2004-07-08
US	43445465	R2MJ506PDVBJ1C	0899972950	137308356	Camping and Backpacking San Francisco Bay Area	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Best in Bay Area Recreation	I visit the San Francisco Bay Area several times a year and am always astounded by the amount of outdoor recreation that is literally at the doorstep of local residents.  Yet most Bay area hiking seems to be of the &quot;day-outing&quot; variety.  You can stroll through the redwoods at John Muir Woods National Monument, walk along the Golden Gate Bridge, or visit numerous regional parks for an afternoon picnic.  But, as it happens, camping and backpacking opportunities also abound within just an hour or so drive of the metropolitan area.  To learn about where you can do these activities, just pick up Heid's book.<br />This book has a number of virtues to recommend it.  It is very well organized.  Camping and backpacking are in separate portions of the book, and each section is further subdivided into three geographical regions:  North Bay, East Bay, and Santa Cruz Mountains, making it easy to locate a camping or backpacking option.  Additionally, the book has excellent topographical maps for the backpacking routes.  Heid has carefully checked the mileage (trail signs tend to vary) and also provides detailed information on what to expect at the backcountry sites.  Finally, Heid provides information on how to &quot;give back&quot; to the various organizations that protect open space in the Bay Area.<br />I will personally use this book mostly for camping.  I like long day-hikes and most of the backpacking routes described in the book can also be hiked during the day.  Heid's information on what to expect at the campground (and how far ahead to make reservations) are invaluable, as well as his discussions of area highlights nearby camps.  This book was my most valuable purchase on a Memorial Day visit to Big Basin State Park.  Everyone who loves California hiking and camping, particularly in the off season, should get it.	2004-07-06
US	43445465	RO7J3QW0JWJO1	0345461509	812787082	The Savage Tales of Solomon Kane	Books	5	58	60	N	Y	Savage Writing at its Best.	Long before Robert Howard conceived of Conan there was Solomon Kane.  A Puritan Englishman from the 16th century, Kane wandered the earth with no particular destination in mind but where God should send him.  Like all of Howard's characters, Kane is an adventurer, but unusual in that he sees himself as a tool of God's justice.  And it is a very Puritanical God indeed that Kane serves.  This is not a God of mercy but one who destroys all evil in His path, using Solomon Kane as his tool.<br />I must confess that I like these stories even more than the Conan tales.  Solomon Kane is a driven character with a brooding personality I find more appealing than Conan.  This book contains all the published stories about Kane and six previously unpublished manuscripts from the Glenn Lord collection.  As with the other Robert Howard books published by Del Rey, this one includes superb illustrations.  The frontspiece by Gary Gianni perfectly captures Kane's grim visage.<br />Anyone who enjoys reading the old pulp adventure tales should get this book.  Howard was a true master of the genre.  The stories, poetry, and essay on Howard by H.P. Lovecraft are all great reads now just as when they were first published.  My favorite pieces are the fragment &quot;Castle of the Devil,&quot; &quot;Rattle of Bones,&quot; and the poem &quot;The One Black Stain&quot; which places Kane with Sir Francis Drake.  But you can hardly go wrong with any part of this book.	2004-07-02
US	43445465	RXVFN3JECUV91	0899973477	983120814	Top Trails Los Angeles	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Most of the Best Hikes in and around Los Angeles	I'm always happy to find another book by Jerry Schad.  I have used his trail guides to enrich my life in Southern California for many years.  He is an established Wilderness Press author and was the natural choice for the Los Angeles edition of the new &quot;Top Trails&quot; hiking series.<br />The purpose of the &quot;Top Trails&quot; series is provide a list of &quot;must do&quot; trails in various regions of California.  Editor Joseph Walowski conceived the series and provided a very useful schema for locating trails and assessing their difficulty.  People looking for an easy stroll, a strenuous workout, or child-friendly outdoor locations will find this guide very useful.  By and large, Jerry Schad's selection of hikes meets the goals of the series.  He includes nice waterfalls, easy (and not so easy) peaks, and terrific bike paths.  Also, there was surprisingly little overlap with Schad's '101 Hikes in Southern California.'  Even hiking enthusiasts will find something new here.<br />Readers should be aware of a couple of flaws in the text.  On page 9 Schad says that there are no trail quotas for any of the hikes in the book.  While generally true, that statement does not apply to the Vivian Creek trail up San Gorgonio Peak.  The Forest Service issues only a limited number of permits and weekends can be booked for more than a month in advance.  On a broader level, this book really does not do the San Bernardino National Forest trails justice.  Schad includes only 3 hikes in this region.  Many more deserve mention.  The Grandview Point Trail and Gray's Peak Trail near Big Bear are among the most scenic trails in Southern California.  Taquitz Peak and the Desert View Nature Trail on Mt. San Jacinto also deserve inclusion in a book like this.  To Schad's credit, however, no one will be disappointed by any of the hikes he listed.  Get the book and have fun.	2004-06-17
US	43445465	R1OWCP0EB5O4CP	0762711248	995409073	Hiking Southern California: A Guide to Southern California's Greatest Hiking Adventures (Regional Hiking Series)	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	A Peak Lover's Guide to California Hiking	Ron Adkinson has written numerous hiking guides for Falcon Press. One suspects his massive list of publications is really meant to subsidize his true passion:  hiking.  Not a bad way to live.  This particular guide covers much of Southern California and hidden within its pages are some true gems.<br />Adkin's book is divided into four parts:  Death Valley, the Mojave National Preserve, Southern California Mountains, and Joshua Tree National Park.  In each area he includes a number of hikes that are classics:  beautiful hikes mentioned in many guides and on which you are certain to encounter many people.  But the book also contains numerous out of the way gems that you won't find elsewhere.  In the mountains section, for example, he includes Pacific Crest Trail rambles along Sierra Pelona ridge and the Scodie Mountains, scenic areas you won't find described elsewhere.  Indeed, people hoping to &quot;get away from it all&quot; will find ample opportunity to do so among the pages of this book.<br />Adkinson has a strong bias towards climbing peaks.  You won't find a lot of nature walks in this guide, although he does include a sprinkling of short family hikes (the Cholla Cactus Gardens in Joshua Tree is my favorite).  But if you like good views, this is the guide to get.  The only reason this book receives 4 stars instead of 5 is for what it does not cover.  It is simply unthinkable that a guide to Southern California hiking should exclude the whole of San Diego and Orange Counties.  These areas have some beautiful country that deserves coverage in a volume of this scope.  Unfortunately the recent (2003) fires destroyed many fine hiking areas (including most of Rancho Cuyamaca State Park) so it is all the more important that modern guides update what is available in this area.<br />Despite the lack of comprehensive coverage implied by the title this is an excellent book.  Get it and enjoy.	2004-01-29
US	43445465	R2QV3WFVMGO673	0345461517	764534415	The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian: The Original Adventures of the Greatest Sword and Sorcery Hero of All Time!	Books	5	16	19	N	Y	Excellent Illustrations of the Original Works	This new Conan collection was well worth the wait.  Editor Patrice Louinet has published the Barbarian's stories in their original order and with their original wording.  No longer do readers have to wade through poor pastiches by later writers in order to enjoy Robert Howard's work.  This book has the first 13 stories, as well as several early unpublished manuscripts.  A fun read of a fascinating hero.<br />Unfortunately, my two favorite Conan stories, &quot;Red Nails&quot; and &quot;Beyond the Black River&quot; are not in this text.  Hopefully they will be published in a new volume shortly.  But this book does have some true gems in it.  Everyone should read &quot;Queen of the Black Coast.&quot;  I also like &quot;Rogues in the House,&quot; even though it is not widely considered one of Howard's best efforts.<br />But the real reason every Sword and Sorcery fan should buy this book are the excellent illustrations by Mark Schultz.  The cover plate is wonderful, and the illustrations really capture some of the best scenes in the book.  They alone are worth the price of the book.	2003-12-11
US	43445465	R24WXLM410LJ3P	1566914876	934527479	Foghorn Outdoors California Hiking: The Complete Guide to More Than 1,000 of the Best Hikes	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Nice revision of a popular guide	California Hiking by Tom Steinstra and Ann Marie Brown has become something of a Bible to hikers over the years.  This edition has some dramatic changes in format from previous versions of the book.  Most obviously, the chapters cover much larger sections of the state.  Whereas earlier editions used a narrow (and quite artificial grid) to place hikes, the 2003 guide divides the state into 16 chapters, each covering a broad geographical area of the state:  from the Northern Redwoods to the Southern Deserts, and everything in between.  Other changes include a longer introduction, with hiker safety tips, and the absence of Steinstra's amusing commentary on the Pacific Crest Trail.  The latter was too general to be used by through hikers in any event. Finally a few trails were added or deleted.<br />  On the whole, the new edition is an improvement over the last version.  Placing hikes in a broad geographical area allows for easier planning of vacations.  Still, with any guide this comprehensive, there are bound to be some problems:  obviously the authors could not walk every trail listed every couple of years.  Generally speaking, Tom Steinstra tends to underestimate miles.  Local guides I've read and trails I've hiked tend to suggest more than his descriptions denote.  Also, Steinstra requires more effort to give a hike a high difficulty rating than Brown does.<br />  Ultimately, this book should not be relied upon for detailed information.  Things like trail maps and detailed trail descriptions simply have no room in guide this comprehensive.  The book is already a bit too bulky.  Nonetheless, this book does give one a nice overview of various sections of the state.  It is particularly helpful for travel.  It can give someone a brief listing of hikes in an area and suggest a productive use of vacation times.  People who do a lot of hiking in one particular area, however, would do well to purchase detailed guides that concentrate on a much smaller region.  Living in the San Bernardino Mountains, I found little of use in this book.  But it was invaluable on my recent trip to Humbolt Redwoods and vicinity.  If you travel the state and like to hike, this book is<br />well worth the price.in the San Bernardino Mountains, I found little of use in this book.  But it was invaluable on my recent trip to Humbolt Redwoods and vicinity.  If you travel the state and like to hike, this book is<BR>well worth the price.	2003-07-12
US	43445465	R3NQKBBKS7V6TL	0899973132	534766881	San Bernardino Mountain Trails: 100 Hikes in Southern California	Books	3	26	27	N	Y	Most comprehensive Guide to San Bernardino Forest.	Note to Readers:  This review is for the 2004 edition.  In 2006, Wilderness Press published a new edition of this book, with a new author, new trail selections, and new design.  Despite this, Amazon has concluded that the 2006 edition is essentially the same book and will not allow me to write a separate review for it.  So, in brief, the criticisms I made of the 2004 book do not apply to the 2006 edition.  The latter is an excellent book and I highly recommend it.  Review (of 2004 edition) follows.<br /><br />The San Bernardino National Forest, located on the Eastern ond Nothern edges of the LA basin, receives more visitors a year than most national parks.  It is quite surprising then that so few hiking guides cover this popular area.  Arguably the most comprehensive of these is John Robinson's 'San Bernardino Mountain Trails.'  First printed in 1972 and now in its fifth edition, this is still best guide to the region.  In addition to well written local history, it outlines 100 hikes ranging from easy nature walks to multiday backpack trips.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I cannot give this edition more than 3 stars:  there are simply too many mistakes in the text.  Hike number two, for example, is listed as 25 miles long.  Actual distance is five miles.  Other mileages are also inaccurate, often by 25% or so.  The text also contains anachronisms:  the reference to Grizzly Bears being gone for more than half a century was appropriate in 1972.  Now however, it is more like a century.<br /><br />This new edition does have several positive changes as well.  It now lists Gray's Peak, one of my favorite hikes in the Big Bear area.  And the new photos are much sharper than in previous editions.  So by all means, get this book.  Far too many Southern California hiking guides slight the San Bernardino Mountains, and this book gives them their proper due.  But be cautious with mileage: some hikes will be shorter than listed, others much longer.	2003-05-16
US	43445465	R11FHRCGV5DXEY	0964026104	588121267	Redwood National & State Parks: Tales, Trails, & Auto Tours	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Best Little Guidebook Ever	Part natural history, part local history, and chock full of fascinating details about Redwood National and State Parks, this is the guidebook to get for the Northern California Coast.  I purchased it primarily as a hiking guide for the all too brief period I first spent in the Park, but have enjoyed reading it ever since.<br />The book covers Native American peoples of the region, the history of conservation efforts to save the Redwoods, and provides detailed descriptions for those who want an &quot;auto tour&quot; through the park.  But the most enjoyable aspects of the book for me were the many sidebars within the text and their selection of hiking trails.  The sidebars deal mostly with local history, and are written with a healthy dose of humor.  Indeed, such titles as &quot;The State of Jefferson: Not just a jest&quot; and &quot;Big Diamond: The Prehistoric Pachyderm of Prarie Creek&quot; are so enjoyable that they deserve a separate book in their own right.  The selection of hikes the Rohde's offer is also excellent.  These parks offer lots of hiking opportunities, but they have picked the best of bunch, a real help to visitors with a strict time budget.<br />Why is it that all the truly wonderful books are 'Out of Stock' or, worse yet, 'Out of Print?'  This book deserves better.  Buy it if you get the chance. It's an excellent investment in any vacation on the Northern California coast.	2003-05-04
US	43445465	R3617632BKYKM3	1840844167	302745265	Bible Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best of the Children's Bibles	If you are looking for a book to introduce your child to the Bible, this should be your first book.  It has three advantages over other \\"children's bibles.\\"  First and foremost, the stories are retold in in approximately half a page, so it is easy to read a story or two a night.  Second, the illustrations that go with the stories are very well done:  none of the overly bright or excessively cute artwork that adorns so many children's bibles.  Finally, this book contains extensive margin notes on archeological finds from the period to bring the story alive to older readers.  Indeed, this adult found the these notes enlightening as well.  It makes reading to your child an educational experience for you as well.	2003-02-10
US	43445465	R1OIIVKTI2WZ95	089997256X	645270923	Day Hikes on the Pacific Crest Trail: California (Hiking & Biking)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	The Day Hiking Alternative to the Pacific Crest Trail	At one time in my life (graduate school) it was easy to take off for a week or more to go backpacking.  With regular employment, however, one is sometimes hard pressed to find a day, much less a couple weeks, to explore hiking opportunities.  This book by George and Patricia Semb is the guide to the PCT for those who simply don't have the time for a two week trip, much less a through hike.<br />This guidebook has a lot to recommend it.  It follows the organization of the standard guide, also published by Wilderness Press, but provides convenient entry and exit points on the trail.  All hikes described are one way affairs, so having two cars is a definite advantage with this book.  Trail descriptions are a bit brief, but this allows more space for explaining how to locate trailheads.  For maps, the Sembs used Forest Service Recreational Maps which also help locate roads near the PCT.  Using this guide, it is possible to hike the entire trail in Southern California as a series of day hikes.<br />The book does have a couple problems, however, which is why I gave it only 4 stars.  Many of the hikes are so long only day hikers in excellent condition will be able to complete them.  Walks of 15 miles are common, and several exceed twenty miles.  In addition, some of the trail descriptions are misleading.  For example, they describe a short stretch of trail in the Angeles National Forest as a &quot;level&quot; hike, even though the trail gains 1200ft in 1.3 miles:  a grade that is far steeper than almost anywhere else on the PCT in Southern California.<br />These problems aside, this is a good supplement to Schaffer's volume on the PCT.  My wife and I used it to day hike most of the PCT in the San Bernardino Mountains this year, and I'm looking forward to using next hiking season.	2002-12-08
US	43445465	R3N9H7EQMKDIYT	0942568222	266633841	Mount Whitney Guide for Hikers and Climbers	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Read it Despite the Dated Material	It is certainly true, as other reviewers have noted, that this book (written in 1990) is now out of date.  In particular, it does not mention the new overly restrictive permit system that the Forest Service has implemented.  Despite that, however, anyone planning to hike or climb Whitney must read this book.<br />Among its many virtues, this book has the most detailed description of hiking and climbing routes available.  Indeed, it is the only guide I've seen which gives the correct mileage to the summit from Whitney Portal.  In addition, it covers natural history, geology, flora and fauna, and the history of attempts on Mt. Whitney in far greater detail than other guides.  Finally, this book gives lots of space to rescue operations, and the preparations you need to make to avoid a similar fate.  For all these reasons it should be your first resource, despite the slightly dated material.  Hopefully the authors can be persuaded to write an updated edition.	2002-12-08
US	43445465	R29UF2NQ7LSZHU	1575400804	88521679	12 Short Hikes San Diego Coast	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Family Coastal Walks	This brief book is a companion volume to the author's '12 Short Hikes: Mountain Areas, San Diego.'  Like the other volume, it contains short pleasant walks even young children can enjoy, and suggests some scenic areas to explore.<br />This book also has the similar problems to the other volume.  Instead of maps, O'Brien gives black and white ariel photos.  I don't find these as useful, especially when he outlines the trails in black, making it difficult to see the route he describes.  It is also worth noting that only half of the hikes described are actually on the coast; others are in urban parks.  It is still worth the purchase price, especially for families wanting to introduce their children to the outdoors.	2002-12-06
US	43445465	R1G8R6H7AQ5ENU	1575400812	562019447	12 Short Hikes San Diego Mountains	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Walking Mt. Laguna and Cuyamuca Rancho State Park	San Diego has a suprising amount of hiking opportunities.  This short guide by Sean O'Brien explores some of the easier walks in the Laguna Mountains and Cuyamuca State Park.  None of the hikes exceed 5 miles in length, and most have gentle grades.  Almost all the hikes listed here are suitable for small children.  Strong hikers, by contrast, walk all the trails in this book in a weekend.<br />One can't really argue with the selection of trails, but the layout of the book leaves something to be desired.  I find maps more valuable than Aerial photographs, and occasionally O'Brien outlines the trail with black dots, making it very hard to follow the route on his black and white photos.  Still, this is a fine guide for family visits, and worth getting.	2002-12-06
US	43445465	R2W2BZCVGNW2RN	1575400812	562019447	12 Short Hikes San Diego Mountains	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Walking Mt. Laguna and Cuyamuca Rancho State Park	San Diego has a suprising amount of hiking opportunities.  This short guide by Sean O'Brien explores some of the easier walks in the Laguna Mountains and Cuyamuca State Park.  None of the hikes exceed 5 miles in length, and most have gentle grades.  Almost all the hikes listed here are suitable for small children.  Strong hikers, by contrast, walk all the trails in this book in a weekend.<br />One can't really argue with the selection of trails, but the layout of the book leaves something to be desired.  I find maps more valuable than Aerial photographs, and occasionally O'Brien outlines the trail with black dots, making it very hard to follow the route on his black and white photos.  Still, this is a fine guide for family visits, and worth getting.	2002-12-06
US	43445465	R5OBIXMBX9RZ9	0899971938	21636426	101 Hikes in Southern California: Exploring Mountains, Seashore, and Desert	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The best of 'Afoot and Afield.'	Jerry Schad is the author of numerous outdoor recreation guides among which are his popular 'Afoot and Afield' books for Los Angeles, Orange, and San Diego counties.  This book includes favorite hikes from all three of the previous guides, and a few others from Riverside and San Bernardino counties.<br />What makes Schad's guides so terrific are the rating system he gives each hike (1-5 stars, based on difficulty) and the nice sketch maps he provides.  Tables at the end of the book help one to easily locate a trails with varied physical features.  Finally, like all Wilderness Press guides, this one is full of natural history and a fun read.<br />If this book can be faulted at all, it is that it draws too much material from Schad's previous works.  Relatively little space is devoted to the San Bernardino and San Jacinto ranges (5 hikes and 3 hikes respectively).  Both of these areas deserve more detailed coverage.  Perhaps Schad can be induced to write another book.  Until then, this guide gives an excellent survey of some of the best hiking Southern California has to offer.	2002-12-01
US	43445465	R1PDYCLBOS7NAL	0939484013	888353164	Perpetual War for Perpetual Peace	Books	3	25	34	N	N	A Revisionist Classic	Americans were generally disillusioned at the end of World War I and this intellectual climate led to a dramatic re-examination of the origins of the war and the US role in it.  No widespread revisionism followed World War II however.  Our overwhelming victory, the horrible revelations of Nazi concentration camps, and the launch of the Cold War all led to war histories that lacked critical appraisal of our involvement, and the war itself.  This book from 1953 attempted a re-evaluation with such evidence as was available at the time.<br />Barnes collected several essays from revisionist scholars on various aspects of the war:  most dealt with Pearl Harbor and whether Roosevelt was aware of a coming attack.  Only a few of the essays were by professional historians, and generally the book was attacked when it came out.  Nonetheless, it is still in print, and some of its arguments have been vindicated in recent years.<br />Readers today will find the best essays to be those by William L. Neumann and Harry Barnes.  Neumann explained how American foreign policy was based on a myth of China and failed to consider our own interests for peace with Japan.  Barnes' essay on Orwell's 1984 is a gem, and deserves wide reading. It was one of the first critiques of the cold war. Most of these essays, however, are dated. In the final analysis, one cannot help but feel that many of these essays were simply a reaction to propagandistic war histories of the 1940s and 1950s.  Dogmatic in some instances, unclear in others, this work has simply been superceded.	2002-11-30
US	43445465	R3MX05P832RN5W	080694756X	961552679	Fantastic Book of Logic Puzzles	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	A good introduction to Logic Puzzles	This book provides a good brief introduction to logic puzzles.  Readers get to explore classic problems involving those who (always) tell the truth and those who (always or sometimes) lie; how to cross rivers with limited capacity boats, etc.  Each chapter begins with simple riddles that introduce the ideas of one particular type of logic problem.  Successive problems are more difficult.  By the end of each chapter, readers can solve very complicated problems.<br />This is an excellent introduction to logic problems.  An entire chapter of hints can help those who are unsure of how to proceed.  It is particularly useful for me as a teacher.  These problems give students some fun work to play with when they are done with their regular assignments.  Those more familiar with logic problems may want to find a more challenging book.	2002-11-29
US	43445465	RH38JK7MM3H6R	0899971288	775288373	Exploring the Southern Sierra: East Side	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Informative but cumbersome.	In his brief life, Jim Jenkins mapped out much of the Southern Sierra, including the Pacific Crest Trail in the region, and wrote two detailed guidebooks.  Since his death in 1979 at the age of 27 his mother, Ruby Jenkins, has continued his work and updated his books on the region.<br />This book is loaded with information on the geology, flora and fauna of the Southern Sierra.  It also includes an excellent map of the region which is almost worth the price of the book.  But the heart of the book is the descriptions of 150 trips in the Southern Sierra, and it is this part that is difficult to use.  Unlike most guidebooks, trail descriptions and directions to the trailhead are in separate parts of the book.  This necessitates a lot of flipping through the book.  And, while the trips described by the book are broken down geographically, they are not separated by type.  I would prefer to see climbs, drives, and bike routes in a separate section of the book than hikes.  Still, this is the most comprehensive guide to the area, and very informative.  Hopefully ease of use will improve in the next edition.	2002-11-28
US	43445465	R2E7N8PNJJ5P9P	1585920495	957064717	Best Easy Day Hikes Southern Sierra	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Pleasant Walking in the Southern Sierra	The &quot;Best Easy Day Hikes&quot; series from Falcon Press is an excellent set of walking guides for the casual hiker. Long difficult climbs, marathon hikes, and difficult backcountry treks without trails are all absent from these brief guidebooks.  Instead, one finds short to moderate walks with nice scenery.  Each guide also includes helpful advice on minimum impact outdoors use, and brief maps of each hike.  Finally, all guides in this set are reasonably priced, and small enough to easily fit into daypacks or a jacket pocket.<br />This particular book by veteran outdoor author Ron Adkison includes a number of excellent walks.  I particularly like the Boole Tree Loop and his two walks into the Domeland Wilderness.  All hikes listed here are between one and ten miles, with the vast majority about five miles.  None have excessive elevation gain, quite an accomplishment in a Sierra hiking guidebook.  The only problem with this book is the size of the area covered.  Adkison considers the Southern Sierra to include everything south of Yosemite National Park, so many of the 20 hikes described are miles from each other.  Except in the Mammoth area, it would be hard to take a weekend and do three of these hikes.  Still, many of the walks are true gems, and I hope to use this book to further explore the Sierra next summer.	2002-11-26
US	43445465	RDRN4UK2974OP	0934161194	286698431	Day Hiker's Guide to California's National Parks (Walking California Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Best of the Best	John McKinney will never be accused of writing comprehensive hiking guides.  Most of his books cover a broad area of California, and don't mention every trail one might encounter.  His books do, however, cover the some of the best trails in California, and those with limited time would do well to consult his guides.<br />This guide to the national parks of California is no exception.  Avid hikers with a lot of time to explore the a Park might want to supplement McKinney's book with a local guide, but for the vast majority of visitors, with limited time, this should be the first book they look to for hiking ideas.  The book covers every national park, monument, and historical site in the state.  As might be expected, Yosemite receives the fullest treatment (27 hikes) while Cabrillo National Monument, Manzanar Historical Site, and the Eugene O'Neil Homestead receive less attention.  Every hike description, however, is full of historical and scenic attractions, includes a map, and provides sound directions to find the trailhead.<br />It's hard to argue with the content of the book.  Of the 150 hikes McKinney describes, I've hiked over 40, and all deserve to be included in a book of this sort.  One could easily add other walks to this list (where is the trail to Little Baldy in Sequoia) but nothing should be excluded.  A good guide and worth the price.	2002-11-26
US	43445465	R12NG0V0OIUCLN	0899972888	240212623	The Tahoe Rim Trail: A Complete Guide for Hikers, Mountain Bikers, and Equestrians	Books	4	27	29	N	Y	Perhaps too much of a good thing	It's nice to see Tim Hauserman come out with a guide to the Tahoe Rim Trail so soon after the trail's completion.  The Tahoe Rim Trail is destined to be one of the elite distance hikes in the West, right next to the High Sierra Trail, John Muir Trail, and Skyline to the Sea Trail.  Having been to the Tahoe area, and recently finished reading the guide, I am already planning a thru hike on the trail for next year.<br />This book has a number of excellent features.  The use of Tom Harrison maps (and the expertise of Jeffrey Schaffer) in the trail description chapters give the prospective hiker far more detail than typical guidebooks do.  This is especially important in planning the logistics of a 150+ mile hike.  In addition, Hauserman has done an excellent job of breaking the trail down into managable day-hikes and/or overnight trips.  Those who, like my wife, want to complete the trail in 2 or more summers will find his organization useful.  Finally, the trail description of each segement begins with helpful notes on water sources, camping locations, etc, which will greatly assist both thru hikers and those sampling the trail on a day hike.<br />If the book has a problem, it is the amount of space it devotes to introducing the Tahoe area and the trail.  Less than half the book is devoted to trail description.  While the rest of the material made for fascinating, and sometimes funny reading (Hauserman has a great sense of humor) it does add to the weight of the book.  I appreciate this in my armchair, but will undoubtably be less happy with it on the trail.  Other Wilderness Press Guides to similar sized trails are more compact (and still have great maps).  Despite this small criticism, the book is an excellent buy and Hauserman has done a good job summarizing what will surely be one of the premier hiking trails in the years to come.	2002-11-24
US	43445465	R1UHIKMQQ7SEPX	0440412005	619392605	Changeling	Books	5	49	50	N	Y	Everyone should Read this Book	A previous reviewer noted this book was for little (and Big) girls everywhere.  But this is truly a story for everyone.  Like many other reviewers, I first read this story when I was 10.  I loved Ivy's free spirit, and empathized with Martha, shy and worried about others, but allowing herself to be pulled into Ivy's world.  And I was devastated when, in Junior High School, Ivy was apparently overcome by the cruel assesments of those around her.<br />  Part of Zilpha K. Snyder's magic as a writer is her ability to create young characters who face real tragedies and traumas and yet somehow overcome what seem to be the insurmountable odds of suviving adolescence.  Facing my own crises as I approached Junior High, I found her books at once inspiring and reassuring.<br />Reading them again now, almost 30 years later, I am shocked at what I didn't see before, and what my favorite nine year old girl sees that I don't.  I can't read the first or final two chapters of this book now without crying for Ivy, even as I know that in the end she is able to pursue her dream.  She became a messiah-like figure for Martha, saving her from the expectations of Martha's own family, and giving her the confidence to discover herself and live life to the fullest. But she suffered greatly and was even briefly rejected by Martha when Ivy herself was hurting the most.  And still she triumphs and forgives.  Would that we all had such friends.<br />  This book should definitely become a yearling edition.  It is one of the best works of childrens literature ever penned.	2002-11-20
US	43445465	RBQPF92HG2QLP	1560449241	254019608	Best Easy Day Hikes Phoenix (Best Easy Day Hikes Series)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	A slightly misleading title.	Falcon Press has produced a number of &quot;Best Easy Day Hikes&quot; guides over the past few years.  They usually feature hikes under  8 miles with an emphasis on shorter walks the whole family can enjoy.  This guide to Phoenix hiking, however, should perhaps be called &quot;Best Short Hikes&quot; as the trails Green recommends are anything but easy.  Quite apart from the weather in Phoenix, which makes hiking anytime from the beginning of May until mid October a real chore, many of these trails are incredibly steep.  People used to hiking well graded trails such as the Pacific Crest Trail will be stunned at the number of hikes which gain close to (and in some cases more than) 1000ft/mile.  At least a third of the trails described in the book exceed the maximum grade that modern trail designers use.  This is at least partly due to the Phoenix Parks department simply picking which of the &quot;use&quot; trails they want to designate as official trails, rather than putting in the expense to build good ones.<br />  That said, this guide is thorough, and it does include a number of hikes which even non-athletes would enjoy.  Green's trail descriptions are helpful, especially in light of all the unofficial trails which dart in and about the designated routes of the Phoenix Mountains.  Finally, his guide is to be commended for the excellent descriptions of getting to the trailhead.  Non-residents wishing to hike in Phoenix will find his directions very easy to follow.<br />  On the whole, a good book for winter conditioning hikes.  I visit Phoenix regularly, but would not consider most of these trails in the summer.	2002-04-05
US	43445465	R2JTI0WHGHSM0Z	0879260084	936126339	Revisionist Viewpoints: Essays in a Dissident Historical Tradition	Books	3	35	36	N	Y	World War II Revisionism	This book is a collection of essays from Dr. Martin, the bulk of which were published in the 1960s in a small libertarian paper, Rampart Journal.  The writing style may be a bit dense for some people, and Martin's cutting sarcasm regarding conventional history will certainly offend others, but this book is still worth a read.  Several of the essays, such as his summary of the &quot;Peace Now&quot; movement of 1943 deal with little known topics that simply have not been explored by mainstream historians.  His two best essays: one on the Cold War, and the other a summary of the work of Harry E. Barnes, however, are worth the price of the book.  Martin's discussion of sociologist, historian and journalist Barnes provides a good summary of the latter's career, and his interest in using history to promote international peace.  The essay on the Cold War, however, has strongly influenced my interpretation of history and foreign policy.  Martin argues that the Cold War was, in the final analysis, an Orwellian conflict, used primarily for controlling domestic populations, and was never an actual conflict between nations, the rulers of which, Martin argues, had more in common with each other than their differing ideologies suggest.  The war he suggests, was primarily fought as an element of domestic policy.  In this he anticipated some of the later new left critics of the Cold War.  Now that the Cold War is over, I can't help but wonder if the &quot;War on drugs&quot; and our new &quot;War on Terrorism&quot; might not fit under the same rubric.  In any event, reading Martin is a challenge and delight, and is highly recommended for those with open minds.  People easily offended should avoid his books.	2001-11-13
