US	43515007	R3A6FZLSF5HUZG	0060594861	437319971	Don't Ever Wonder: A Novel	Books	3	0	3	N	N	If you like much drama in your books than this one's for you!	Don't ever wonder....    A follow up to Don't Let Go, a tale of three best-friends; the ins and outs and the ups and downs of their relations with the opposite sex and with each other.    The story starts off with Nate severely depressed over the suicide of a former girlfriend {Just one out of a long, long list}. Nate blames himself and as a result he moves out of state and into the arms of a woman, Janette that only wants to love him. During his story he finds God, fights off his depression with the aid of a pastor and sets out to right the wrong he feels responsible for, which includes going back and apologizing for his own actions. Having left Janette behind; once back in DC he attends church regularly and eventually falls for the preachers wife, Anita. Anita returns those feelings when finding out her husband is not the man of God he preaches to be. With Anita by his side Nate makes some life altering decisions. If you read the first book then you will remember Sahleen {the woman that Nate gave his heart to in the first novel} is back and things get a bit heated once she steps on the scene.     Cory is still up to his no good ways and loving himself more than anyone else. After being married for less than a year to his child's mother Shelly, he still can't get his mind off Nina her sister. Never mind that he has played a major part in the two sisters not speaking, he causes further damage to himself and the sisters by seeking Nina out once again to resume their ended affair. Cory is a very confusion person that lacks self-control. Which will be evident when dealing with one of his two best friends during the story. {I will keep this part out of the review for those that will read it for themselves. Shocking but drama worthy.} Eventually Cory does something so outrages that his own mother has to have words with him. Cory eventually takes a good look at himself and takes steps to find himself and true love.     Brendan and Trina are living together but Brendan still has it doubts and those doubts about Trina turns into something else when Brendan takes a trip to the doctor and finds out that he has an STD that could have only come from Trina. He then turns to other women since he knows for sure that she is still out cheating on him. In comes Tanisha but she is quickly replaced by another woman named Tuesday. During an argument Brendan lets on that he knows Trina has been stepping out on him and he admits to doing the same thing. A fight ensues and the cops are called. {Not wanting to give too much a way} Further into the story, Brendan gets into a car accident and is hospitalized. In comes Renee {readers will remember the name from the previous novel}. There is also a side story line dealing with Renee and her fianc {every interesting and drama worthy}.    I will leave off here folks. I just wanted to give you a little taste of what you'll be reading if you decided to get this novel. I found it to be a very interesting and fast pace read that I finished in just under 4 hours. Darren Coleman is very talented writer but I gave it 3 out of 5 stars because Coleman left two many unanswered questions in the novel. Here are just a few: 1} Renee, Brendan's best-friends steps back on the scene but I have to be honest, the only thing I recognized about her was her name. She is not the same person Coleman wrote about in the first novel where she is introduced. Then after everything is said and done the author just drops her from the story and the reader is left wondering what happened with her. 2} Tuesday is Brendan's new love interest but there is no plot development for this character. I never really got to know her and my first impression of Tuesday was very bad. She's a drug user. So how the author decided she would be the one for Brendan is beyond me. 3} Then the part when Nate's ex comes back on the scene. This part makes me seriously question his love for Anita.	2005-07-18
US	43515007	R218HXT8CPQ2QD	0743258169	613283216	The Million Dollar Divorce: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Impressive	Read the editorial review for the books description. I am seriously impressed with RM's style of writing. This is my second novel, and so far I have enjoyed them both. There is nothing typical about his writing. Looking for a change of pace from the norm then pick this book up. I finished it in under 4 hours {it was that good}....	2005-01-29
US	43515007	R3QJ7DTHTKVYEY	0449150380	715528338	Hellion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Read this only if you like it rough!!!	Our story starts off in the year of our Lord 1100. King Henry decided that one of his most faithful and trusted knights' was in need of land and a wife. Hugh Fauconier was given the lands of Langston and its current mistress/owner, Lady Isabelle also known as Belle from Hell. Hugh and fellow knight/best friend Rolf de Briard set out for his future home and bride. Unsure what to expect, Hugh certainly did not expect to find his future mother in law so completely hospitably, abiding and accommodating, and his future wife the complete opposite of her mother. To say that Belle from hell was pissed off about the king deciding to relieve her of her lands and marry her off is putting it mildly. She adamantly refused to wed with a man that she had not chosen for herself. Unlike Bell and Hugh; Rolf and Belle's mother Alette fell for each other almost right away. Unfortunately   love at first sight means nothing when you've been hurt as bad as Alette was by Belle's late father. Alette has taken a vow never to marry once she found out about her husbands death. {There is only a 15-year difference between mother and daughter. Belle is only 15 years old when she first meets Hugh.} In addition to being a knight in the kings' service Hugh raises and trains hunting birds, namely falcons.    <br /> <br />Little time passes when Belle finally decides to trust Hugh and accept him as Lord over her lands and people as well as her husband. The same fate befalls her mother as well. Rolf's love for Alette wins her over and she eventually accepts him as her husband. {Now it wasn't as easy as I wrote in this review...read the story, it is very interesting how they finally get married}...  <br /> <br />Robert Duke of Normandy is the oldest brother of King Henry. War is looking eminent between the king and his brother {Robert was indeed cheated out of the throne of England and is willing to fight to reclaim what he believes is his.} Hugh and Rolf are called to the kings' service.   <br /> <br />Robert de Manneville is Belle's late father. In addition to his daughter, Robert had two other children {boys from a previous marriage. Their mother died while giving birth.} The oldest named William also died in battle with his father. The middle brother Richard has his own plot of lands but his not satisfied with just that. He his eager to obtain Langston as well. Having no affection or love for either his step mother and sister his very upset to find out that Belle is already married. The fact that she is married does not stop his want for Langston and his willingness to do whatever he can to take control of it.  <br /> <br />Fortunately war is abated and in an act of piece Hugh his sent by the king to his brother Robert in Normandy with a gift of a trained hunting bird. As weeks turn into months, with no word from her husband at all Belle sets out to find him and bring him home. She talks her stepfather Rolf into talking her to England to ask of news of her missing husband. Rolf knowing full well what type of man the king is, is very reluctant to take his beautiful stepdaughter before the king. Rolf is then proven right when king Henry makes a play for Belle and his determined to make her his newest mistress. After ducking and dogging the king word finally reaches Belle that her husband departed from his visit with Robert some time ago and was invited to visit with her brother Richard under guise of peace and friendship. Hugh and his party were then giving to an evil sorceress by the name of Vivienne d'Bretagne and her brother Guy...  <br /> <br />Realizing what her brother had done Belle and sets out to find and reclaim her husband that has been made a sex slave of sorts by Vivienne. Pretending to be a young man Guy sees through her disgust almost immediately and the same fate that befalls her husband happens to her. And this is where the story picks up!!!!   <br /> <br />Very good story!!!! I was very impressed with my first taste of B. Small. I wish someonewould have turned me on to her a lot sooner I probably would have read all of her novels by now!!! I will say that the story line before Hugh went missing was pretty good; the sex was also just pretty good!!! But when Hugh went missing, is when the story picks up and I got down right excited! Realizing that Vivienne's brother Guy is one of the main villains in the story did not stop me from liking him immensely...    <br /> <br />Read this book!!!!  <br /> <br />	2004-08-09
US	43515007	R1RNQYBVVOK1HY	0380861658	302019346	The Wanton	Books	1	16	16	N	N	Don't waste your time!!!	Read the editorial reviews for the book description...<br /><br />I am just about the most politically incorrect person I know... I tell you I love a good man-handling read. {The kind of stuff that would outrage the politically correct women of today. All of them.} I'm talking about the kind of reads to where the hero will taking nothing less than a yes for an answer from his intended lady love. And then goes about getting that yes by any and all means necessary through out the novel.<br /><br />With that said, I tensely disliked this novel... This was by far the worst novel I have ever read and actually completed. Rogers heaped way too much abuse on the female main character. She goes through so much {which includes beatings and being raped at the hands of evil stepbrother and of course her own husband. Oh did I mention the gang rape?!}<br /><br />I was actually hoping for a happy ending for her, which Rogers refused to give. This book ended so badly that I tossed the book in the trash.  I would have given it away but I didn't want anyone to know that I had read something that bad.<br /><br />I wrote this review not to tell you about the book but to tell you don't waste your time...	2004-08-03
US	43515007	R1FGP46EF3Q3Z8	0970716982	146011242	Warlord	Books	5	25	27	N	N	My favorite Jaid Black read...	The story starts out at what should have been Euan Donald's {Chieftain of the Donalds and lord of Isle of Skye} wedding feast, in the year 1052 AD, Scotland. When his bride was not delivered to him as promised The Donalds brother Graeme persuades him to go and steal him one. {I am leaving quite a bit out for those that will read this very good story...} The 6'6, very muscular and darkly handsome, Euan accompanied by his two brothers set off to capture themselves some wives.   <br />  <br />Present day Nairn Scotland, Janet Duval and her best friend Morag were leaving the local Pub after dinner and drinks. Morag was on duty for the night at her family owned, Inn. It didn't take long for the two women to notice something quite different about that night. Walking towards the Inn, the fog grew thick and dense and before they knew it, they were no longer in the present.  <br /> <br />Before they had a chance to react to their new surrounds Morag was snatched away from Janet by a thickly muscled man. Janet's first reaction was to run to find help but Euan caught her eye and before she knew it she was up in his arms being carried off as well. I will leave off here...   <br />        <br />This erotically charged story caught my attention from the first paragraph and I tell you it was so good that I wanted to crawl into my computer and get trapped within the story!!! I loved it and highly recommend this read to anyone that likes erotic-manhandling stories. This was my second taste of Jaid Black and still my favorite by far of all of her stories. And I've read just about all of them. Keep up the good work JB!!!     <br />	2004-08-03
US	43515007	R2UOAYGF53TEI1	0316602906	981192109	The Big Bad Wolf	Books	4	2	3	N	N	My first taste of Alex Cross...	My first taste of Alex Cross <br /> <br />I was very impressed... My goal here is not to give too much away for those of you that will read this book. Its starts out with a kidnapping in broad day light at a shopping mall. The case turns out to be all about white slavery. Only the pretties of the pretty are being abducted and sold into slavery as play toys for sick rich men with way to much time and money on their twisted little hands... {I figured out right away who set the first woman up that was kidnapped and why...but that is where it stopped for me... I was left guess the rest of the way through much of the book, which I liked!!!! What I don't like is when I have a book all figured out by page 60... That did not happen here!!! At least not for me.}  <br /> <br />Quite a few twist and turns for Cross as he starts training classes for the FBI but is unable to finish because he is put on the slavery case called, white girl. Which manages to piss off some higher ups within the bureau. Another turn of events happens when his ex-fiance comes back into the picture requesting full custody of their child Alex Jr. His youngest son that Cross fondly calls big boy...  <br /> <br />As the case progresses and more men and women are being abducted Cross and his team think they know who the identity of the Wolf is. The goal of the Wolf is to be the only and only god-father and he is making a point to kill off anyone that threatens his plans. Which included FBI agents and the like.   <br /> <br />Ok people I'm going to stop right here before I say way too much!!!! I recommend this book. Great read but the ending left me a bit sad and very anxious to read the next installment of Alex Cross...        <br />	2004-07-27
US	43515007	RAY08EV6BZMS4	038079487X	311612619	What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	What looks like crazy....	This novel is about a woman {Ava Johnson} dealing with the fact that she has HIV and her promiscuous pass that lead to her having gotten it in the first place. Cleage also writes about Ava's day-to-day journey of living with this disease and the prejudices and the ignorance of people. I'm talking about those folks that don't know how HIV is transmitted, so they make things up as they go. Ava returns to her hometown of Idelwild, Michigan seemly just for a visit to her sister on her way though to San Francisco. Where she was determined to make a new life for her self... Idelwild is not the small country town she remembers. Not only did things change but they have changed for the worse. Drugs, break-ins, teenage pregnancy and other gang related incidences seem to be the normal occurrence now.  <br />Secondary plot revolves around Ava's sister Joyce. Joyce is on a mission to spread the word and educate teenage girls and young woman all over about the importance of safe sex, self-love and self-respect. Joyce, a single woman, has decided to adopt a child. Having lost her husband and two children by tragic means. This child is special and the adoption is not so easy, as you will come to see the more you read into the novel. You will get more than a few twists and turns in this novel folks... Very good read, I promise...<br />Ave is also fortunate enough to have found true love with a man {Eddie} while in Idelwild. Eddie too has had to dealt with the skeletons in his own closet and came out on the other end of life just fine... Eddie helps Ave realize that just because she has this terrible disease that life without true love isn't necessary.<br />My first taste of Pearl Cleage. I must say I am very impressed with this author style of writing. She is refreshing and witty and I am wondering what the heck took me so long in reading this novel in the first place... A friend told me about her a few years passed and I wish I would have gone out and purchased a copy right then...I could have said more in the review but I don't want to take away any surprises for those of you that will read this book... It was so interesting that I read it in about 6 hours time...	2004-03-16
US	43515007	R27TDA16RP0IMT	0446602213	755740947	Morning, Noon & Night	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A 4 star review...	This book revolves around a very wealthy man, Harry Stanford and his three legitimate children, {Tyler, Woody and Kendal} and one illegitimate {Julia} child born to him and the live in nanny. It turns out that Harry Stanford is not a very nice Billionaire. He cheated on his wife pretty regular. So much so that she committed suicide after he and the live in Nanny made a baby. His three children blamed him for their mothers' death. After which the nanny leaves town before the child is born. After the child is born Harry makes it a point to completely ignore her very existence.  <br />The three children and their father were a severely dysfunctional family. The father hated his children and treated as bad as possible. When the children would have cling to each other for support and bonded together, Harry separated them and sent all three off to different schools. When Harry Stanford turns up dead, {an accident????? Nope.} the sibling reunion while not really a sad occasion is very strained due to the fact that they are virtual strangers to one another. And all three are hiding very dirty little secrets of their own. These secrets start coming out one by one when Julia shows up right before the reading of their fathers will... <br />While a somewhat enjoyable and interesting read I was able to figure out who did what to whom very quickly so there were no real surprises for me throughout the novel. I would still recommend this book however, because I am a big fan of Sidney and have yet to be disappointed by this author. {Note: This is my fourth novel by this author.}	2004-03-02
US	43515007	RN840ZK8QTXFW	0375758410	571603696	Dream in Color: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	I would have given it 5 stars but.....	This novel is about a couple in a loveless marriage where the wife does something a bit different than the typical. Instead of literally cheating, she does so within the fantasies of her own mind. These fantasies/day dreams become her outlet from a marriage to a man that has never loved her and only married her because she had given birth to their child. Her husband treats her cold and indifferent and is borderline abusive. Not to mention the fact that she is positive that he's cheating.  <br />Two different love stories with totally different twist develop within her mind. The stories within the story were very good. And by the end of the novel I was very proud of Victoria {the lead character}. With the aid of her two fantasy lovers she was able to gain the strength she needed, within herself to leave the loveless marriage.      <br />Dream in Color was a slightly different novel for me. DJ is a very talented writer and I was very impress with her first novel. The reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is because in a romance novel I like a bit more detail in the sex scene's... That did not happen here. <br />DJ!!!I NEED A LITTLE MORE SEX IN THE SEX SCENE'S HON....	2004-02-22
US	43515007	REE5E73AUH2HZ	0743444264	150253429	Strangers in the Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	For those that like to be manhandled on occasion:	More than a few people where offended by the third story. However, I am not one of those people... I thought the stories where very entertaining and I tell you once I picked the book up I didn't put it down until I was finished. Which was about 3 hours later. The first and third stories were very good the second was just ok. Keep them coming Linda...	2004-02-20
US	43515007	R1A1SZW3DOBVCC	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Nora, what happened????	Ok folks Nora got me hooked with the first book in the trilogy. Excellent read {5 stars}... The second one was not a good as the first but still very good {4 1/2 stars}. I was so excited about the third novel that I went and got it the first day it came out. I just could not wait to see how it all ended... What the heck happened to the third novel??? Very anti-climatic and almost boring compaired to the first two books... I was very disappointed with the ending of this trilogy.	2004-02-20
US	43515007	RMJWNNZMLWL22	0061015725	245555180	Prey	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Technology gone evil...	You can read the editorial reviews for the book description.  While a very interesting read, it was not very entertaining. Some areas seemed to drag on. For first time readers of Michael try Sphere or Disclosure first. You will not be disappointed...	2004-02-20
US	43515007	R3I0ZIYK1ECVQ	0971195307	369758118	All That and a Bag of Chips	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Promising Story....But...	A promising story...But<br />The main character, Venice is a college student in a three way relationship with long time boyfriend Jarvis and college sweetie Craig. Venice has a decision to make. Unfortunately I knew the ending right away. <br />The story line was promising but D. Lee lost me in the writing. There were quite a few grammatical errors. The dialog between the characters was juvenile, choppy and stilted. There where no real twist and turns, and too many unnecessary details for such a simple plot.  <BR> <BR>I had to give it three stars instead of one because while the plot was unbelievable, it was still somewhat enjoyable. Come one ladies you know the typical. Two good strong minded women fighting over a no good triflin man. Well why not the other way around for once.	2004-01-20
US	43515007	R322G7Y984YUB1	0684835665	709047711	Flyy Girl	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not what I was expecting...	The lead character's name is Tracy Ellison and this is a coming of age story about her, with secondary plots about her parents and the family that lives next door. While yes, it took me back and I was able to relate to that era of time being a teen in the 80's myself. I was only able to give the book two stars. Tracy had no self worth and no self love. Her father was the worst possible example of what a \\"good father\\" is and I do believe that Omar tried to betray the father in a good light. I never understood the reasoning behind why the father decided he needed to abandon his wife and child {yes they got back together after his 9 year absence}. The explanation that he gave his daughter towards the end of the book did nothing to help me understand his actions; as a matter of fact I through his explanation was total BS. My favorite character was Rah-Rah. I loved that little girl and could more relate to her and her struggles with her teen years rather than Tracy. At least she had some self pride.   <br />Over all I found the book to be lacking in depth, character and for lack of a better word just plain boring. I know that this was Omar's first time out of the gate and I applaud his effort; but he has yet to top \\"A Do Right Man.\\"	2003-08-03
US	43515007	R379TU0935040J	0451410173	662398497	Four Guys and Trouble	Books	5	1	1	N	N	LOVED IT! LOVED IT! LOVED IT!	Read the editorial reviews for the book description. <br />I loved this book. I have found myself a new male author that I can be proud of... <br />Your style of writing is refreshing and simply wonderful. The characters came alive from page one, and I couldn't wait to turn to the next page to see what was going to happen next. After renting the book from the library, I went out and purchased a copy in hardcover... <br />You did an excellent job MM... Keep up the good work.  <br />Now on to the real reason for writing this review. Ibn, {which is one of the five main characters in the book} needs his own novel darn'it!!!! I need a sista to come along, and bring that high minded brotha to his knees!!! I need her to make him do what he is incapable of doing. Loving someone else, more than himself... Normally, I can't stand for a woman to play hard to get because it is so \\" romance novel\\" typical, that it becomes old and tiring, very quickly...But in this case I would love for that exception... Ibn needs a woman to come along that will not so easily give in to him; someone that can hold her own when dealing with him and that smart mouth of his, {read the book folks he will having you laughing out loud at some of the things that he says, I promise} and can eventually put it on him so good, that he has no choice but to fall in love. And when I say put it on him, I don't mean just the physical... He also has to be in love with her mind and will. She has to complete him. <br />Think about it MM, please???	2003-05-08
US	43515007	R1MK3P644XQSFD	1843601052	955119109	Bloodlust II: The Taming of Serge Dumont (Erotic Vampire)	Books	2	8	9	N	N	It could have been a really great story if....	I am with the reader from Concord on this one: (I'm just glad I'm not the only one [peeved] about the lead female character.) This could have been a great story if Derri hadn't been such an irritating, smart mouth, pain in the [behind]. I am a fan of ML but I don't know what she was thinking, when she decided to turn Derri into such a headache. I never felt like she really love Serge, even by the end of the story, the love was all one sided to me. She was more than ready and willing to go find her lost love {The one she really wanted to marry} and apologize, but she never thought for a second to go and find Serge and apologize for all the wrong she'd done to him. He was the one that had to go to her and basically beg her to take him back... Honestly I felt like Derri didn't deserve Serge. One would expect this type of behavior from a secondary character but not from a lead. <br />Derri was 1st introduced in The Talisman. The story of Cassy {best friend to Derri} and Chandler was a very good read. I gave it 4 stars. Cassy was a leading female character that was very likable.<br />While some of the story was actually very good {and the sex scenes made me wanna jump into my computer screen} I gave it 2 stars because the lead character left much to desired and being a black woman myself, I was not proud of her.	2003-01-04
US	43515007	R2KFUZ9ORUDY4U	1843600196	557174464	Ruling Passion	Books	5	8	8	N	N	I love reading stuff that shocks me...	The Hero {Lord Jeoffrey Blaisdell} and Heroine {Lady Rosalind Hamilton} first meet in a dungeon, where Rosalind is being held captive by Sir William de Railles. Sir William put her in the dungeon of her own Manor in order to help persuade her to become his wife. She, however wanted nothing to do with him, a side from watching him die after he first murdered her father and then her brother, all while she watched. His men helped themselves to her mother and then killed her. Jeoffrey was actually there freeing others when she called out to him to save her also. She lied and stated that she would pay him 1000 crowns if he would rescue her as well. He agreed.  <br />Once Rosalind and Jeoffrey were in his manor the next day, she told him that she did not have the money to pay. He demanded something else instead of money. The use of her body for one night and one day. In addition to this payment she would also have to be disciplined for lying to him. Spanked!!!! <br />That's it folks I've already said too much!!!! <br />This was a very good read. I enjoy Katherine Kingston's style of writing and can not wait to read more from her... Caution: There is some violence in this story {SPANKINGS}. If this type of material offends you please don't read it.	2002-12-08
US	43515007	RQ4HJNESRR8PF	044020609X	909362703	The Conqueror (Dell Historical Romance)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	THIS AIN'T THE NORM.....	Normally we would read about:  Women being so completely overwhelmingly in love with the man that she goes through just about any and every thing for him, while he betrays and treats her badly {almost non-stop}. She leaves him when his betray becomes too much for her to handle. Then by the last 50 to 30 pages he finds her and begs her for forgiveness; which is usually done right away because by then the author is just trying to hurry up and finish the book. You know the typical: Man meets woman. Man makes woman fall in love with him then man betrays woman; Man beats woman; man sleeps around on woman; man forgets to tell women he's married already... And so on and so forth.<br />This book takes the lead female character and makes her very flawed. We have also read the book, where the heroin makes mistakes due to a misjudgment OR miscommunication but not in this case. Some did not like the book due to the fact of the heroine's blatant betrayal {on more that one occasion}, and due to the rape scene. I however fully enjoyed the book and was more than satisfied with the fact that BJ allowed a lead female character make some serious mistakes. <br />I admired Ceidre's loyalty and faithfulness to her family. People must remember that Rolfe came to her home and took over; this home was her brothers: Edwin and Morcar and her sister Alice's home {had been from birth}. Ceidre's loyalty is justified and her willingness to do anything her brothers asked of her made sense... Although she didn't like it. Rolfe and the king he served were their enemies. From their point of view they had every right to try and regain their home back from Rolfe; which was giving to Rolfe by king William, due to the brothers treason {read the book to find out the full story}. Ceidre falls in love with Rolfe but her betrayal of him for her families sake would take place; more that once. <br />One review said that it should not have worked out and I agree but how many times have we read books where the male lead character has to beg for forgiveness for his many indiscretions and betrayals of the heroine. For once we have a male character so over whelming in love with the female character that it is almost heart breaking when the finally act of betrayal does happen. But even then he is consumed by her and can not do without her. Even when she is locked away for her crimes he can not stay away from her... This was a good story of turnabout being fair play. Usually it's the male character that does ALL of the dirty work. I appreciated the fact that Ceidre was allowed to make some major mistakes and was in love with Rolfe enough to beg his forgiveness and willing to do anything to prove her love for him.	2002-10-26
US	43515007	R1DMGUG1R2C7NR	0515131520	502406772	Darkling I Listen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ANOTHER KEEPER....	Read the Editorial Reviews for the book description:<br />A very good and entertaining read. The characters were very believable and most very likeable. Unfortunately I knew who the villain was when the character was first introduced but KS made up for that with all the twists and turns. The novel was <BR>a bit wordy but still a good and interesting read. Brandon is a man's man with real struggles and a heart breaking past that will make you want to cry for him. His love interest by the name of Alyson was there at first for the story that would boost <BR>her career but fell head-long in love with Brandon. She was a good strong character with fire and some kick to her. I appreciate the fact that KS allowed her to be strong and still when she was wrong didn't allow her pride to talk her out of a future with the man she loved. And KS know she can write a love scene!!!!! HONEY, I WANTED TO JUMP RIGHT IN THE PAGES. <br />Read this novel you will not be disappointed.	2002-09-19
US	43515007	R3NMEW2JLGLZF0	0380762560	753332767	Surrender My Love (Haardrad Family)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not what I was expecting:	You can read the editorial reviews for the book description. I did not care for this book at all. When I read a romance novel, I need some actual romance in the novel. Romance to me is very important IN a romance novel {Just incase I didn't make myself clear}. This book has NO romance in it at all. The two main characters peppered each other with insults constantly. By the end of the book they discover that they are completely in love with one another, which is fine but the books is 403 pages long. Their first real romantic encounter {and I have to say it this way for the review to make it on but I mean the act it self} did not happen until 320 pages of the book {I could be wrong on the actual page number but I do know it was after page 300}. In other words it took just do darn long to get to the GOOD PART. Which in my opinion, that too was seriously lacking. Having read the author before and knowing full well of what she is capable of writing, this will in no way stop me from purchasing her books in the future but I was really disappoint in this particular read.	2002-09-16
US	43515007	RBLFGK05EC22W	0060502290	4413918	A Chance at Love	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Beverly does not disappoint.	This JB story is centered on Loreli Winters. Her character was introduced in both Topaz and Always and Forever. Coming in on the wagon trail full of mail-order-brides, Loreli hadn't planned on staying in Kansas long at all. She in fact was headed to San Francisco {but never made it}. The story starts off with Two 8-year-old twin girls asking her if she would be their new mama, since quite a few of their friends has new mama's, they wanted one as well {This part in the book is just too cute for words}. The girls are called Dede and Bebe; their mother having passed away the year before, the girls now reside with their uncle Jake Reed. Jake having refused to look for a wife among the mail-orders brides; the twins took it upon themselves, to see if they could fine themselves a mama. <br />Jake finds out that Loreli's occupation is a professional gambler. Knowing for sure that she is not the God fearing, law abiding women that he wants and the girls need. He rejects the idea of her being their mother and his wife instantly. The twins, however, have other ideas. The girls become attached to Loreli and no other woman is good enough to become their new mama, so Jake reluctantly propositions Loreli; he wants her to become the twins' mother and his wife for one year, until he can find a more suitable bride. Things progress from there and the two develop feelings for one another that can't be denied but there are forces at work bent on keeping them apart. One of those forces shows up in the form of an ex-lover of Loreli's. He proves to be the deciding factor for the break-up of the Jake and Loreli {but not for reasons you might guess...I'll let you read it for yourselves to find out what happens}. Not wanting to give too much away love prevails and the two come back together become a family. <br />I though the story was a good read. The like it when an author allows the man to play hard to get in a love story sometimes. We always hear about how the man has to win the woman over but it was the other way around in this story. The ending I though was a bit rushed or it could have been that I just didn't want the story to end; either way you will enjoy this story.	2002-09-12
US	43515007	RI6HRZ7K1FA54	1551669277	438003724	Wicked Loving Lies	Books	4	50	54	N	N	A serious adventure ride.	Not your typical romance book. Yes we know that violence against women is wrong no matter the time period. This book contains several rapes scenes. If you know that this kind of material offends you then don't read this book. I was not offended and found the book to be very enjoyable read. <br />The story starts off with Marisa in a convent. Her father sends her would be husband there to meet her. When she realizes this, not wanting to marry at all, she leaves with a gypsy family. She winds up meeting Dominic Chanllenger in the gypsy camp where he mistakes her for a whore {she's actually a virgin}. Anywho, he winds up kidnapper her and talking her back to his ship where he pretty much rapes her {all while still thinking she's a whore}. After he realizes that she was indeed a virgin he has one of his crew mates to pay her off and put her off the ship. She somehow manages to stay on board when she realizes the ship is bound for France which is where she wants to go. Her mothers' family is there. <br />After some time goes by Dominic discovers that she is still on board. He keeps her naked and in his cabin for the rest of the voyage. Where he repeatly rapes her {Just incase you didn't get why she's kept in the cabin. Naked.} They final make it to Frances. And she finally makes it to her family {I won't give to much away for those that will wind up reading this book for yourself.} Dominic doesn't realize that Marisa is of nobility and so when he finds out he is talked into marrying her. Since he is the one that took her virginity in the first place. The so called honeymoon is another rape episode After which he abandons her. and yes folks this is the night after the wedding. He does this to her because he thinks it's all her fault that he had to marry her in the first place. <br />Further on: Marisa decides she wants to have an affair with Dominic's cousin {I CAN'T REMEMBER THE MAN'S NAME! sorry}.  Because her husband has abandon her and she if certain that he is out doing the same thing. Anyway the cousin for some reason or another {never mind the fact that he and Dominic and bitter enemies} just can't see to bring himself to sleep with Marisa even while he is deeply in love with her. To him she is perfect and pure and so he handles her with kid gloves, UNTIL..... Marisa and the cousin {and I really do wish I could remember his name.} Anywho the cousin and Marisa are traveling in a coach and a group of men come upon them. Marisa is banded and raped {YES FOLKS. RAPED AGAIN. This happens all through the book, just so you'll know.} in front of the cousin. The men of course beat and tie him up first and then one man brands and rapes her while the cousin watches.  The group of men leave them battered and helpless. The cousin {having witness what just happened to Marisa} is so turned on that when she manages to untie him; he in-turn rapes her once again. WELL HELLO FOLKS!!!!!!  I don't know how Ms Rogers decided to just through that one in there but she did.... <br />It goes on from there and Dominic and Marisa come together again; only to be separated once again when a ship that they are on is capture. In the mean while he rapes her several more times and she whines up pregnant with her husbands child. While separated once again she has the baby but is told that it died because the man that has captured her wouldn't allow her to keep it if it was a boy. The baby was giving to a woman that was capture with her and her and the baby were eventually found by Dominic. He takes the nanny and his son to America.  While Marisa is dealing with the lost of her baby boy <br />Time goes on and after about 2 years or so the all meet up in America. Dominic is of course under the impression that Marisa just gave her baby away because she wanted nothing to do with him or his off spring becomes engaged to another woman.  Marisa goes to stay with an evil-hateful woman that was married to her father {he dies in the story but I'll let you read how and why. It's shocking, I promise.} Anyway by then Dominic and Marisa are divorced and living very separated lives. They meet at a party and she finds out that her son still lives. And this meeting didn't go at all well. I have to tell this part. The morning after the party she goes out for a walk. He is out of a ride on his horse the two some how meet. Guess what folks????? Yep, you guessed it. He attacks and rapes her again. This attack on her person does not hinder her. She still wants to meet her son.  So about a week or so later she demands that she be allowed to meet him and Dominic reluctantly agrees with her. He pick her up in a carriage and takes her to where she believes she is finally going to meet her son.... No so folks.  He talks her to a room and attacks and rapes her yet again.<br />{Now don't misunderstand folks. Three is more to this book then Dominic raping his wife. There is plenty of adventure and action in this book. She also winds up having affairs with Napoleon himself and an Arabian prince. She was sold into slavery by her step-mother and her husband rescues her. } They eventually realize that they can't live without each other and go off and live happily ever after.	2002-07-12
US	43515007	R2BOU9G6GZ7C8M	0380757478	282925652	Fires of Winter (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	This is not your average love story.	For those that come across this review before you read this book... This is not a light-hearted, {romance in almost every chapter} type of love story. I would say to please keep in mind the time period which this book was based upon. And yes I know that abuse of women is wrong in any era.  If you wish not to read things of this nature, then stay away from this book...<br />The book has been criticized due to the rape scenes.  I, however, thought it was an excellent read. I believe that Johanna stayed true to form for that time period. Some of you probably can not hang with this type of reading. I suggest that you try some of her more recent novels.  She has not written a novel like this one for quit a while...	2002-04-02
US	43515007	R308CEBZVYTATJ	0553572156	49285759	Taboo	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Can someone add a "0" star rating please????	This book was really bad... And just to let you know, I can handle a really bad book if it has some really good [provacative] scenes to compensate.  But that just didn't happen here.  The [provacative] scenes had no excitement to them at all; I'm mean just plain boring.  Andre was a typical man and Teo was just plain stupid. She was {if I'm not mistake; it's been a while since I've read the book.} 28-years-old but she acted like she was all of 13 with a really big crush on the local school boy. She is not at all the type of character I could be proud of.  The author portrays her has weak and with very little common sense.  This was my second book by this author and so far she has not impressed me at all.  The first book I read by her was just ok and I was hoping she would get better with this novel but it didn't work out that way.  I've had enough of this author.	2002-03-29
US	43515007	R30UEGTLM8VQE0	0515130923	862934849	Dawn in Eclipse Bay	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Where is the 0 star rating when you need it.....	This is to anyone who has read this author before and has enjoyed her style of writing.  You will probably enjoy this one as well.  I however, have decided never to read anything she writes again. The author's style of writing is too juvenile for my taste.     <br />You can read the Editorial Reviews for the book description.  The main character Lillian has a knack for jumping to the wrong conclusion and her lack of common sense was laughable.  Another character by the name of Arizona Snow was obsessed with frozen aliens, which was both pointless and too stupid for any real humor.  Towards the end of the book when common sense finally catches up with Lillian {after a long and exhausting chase throughout the book} and she realizes who the person is that's behind the break-in and vandalism of her beachfront home.  She goes in search of the proof she needs and to confront the person.  This was not a confrontation at all; it was more like a very civil disagreement between two really good friends.  A small spat if you will. The ending was very disappointing and it was a real effort on my part to finish the book.    <br />For those that haven't read anything by Jayne Ann Krentz and you come across this review before you have a chance to read one of her books... TRUST ME AND SKIP THIS AUTHOR.  Try Karen Robards, Judith NcNaught, Linda Howard and or Nora Roberts.  You will not be disappointed in either of these authors I promise.	2002-03-06
US	43515007	RNFU2N6BLIAXJ	0399148248	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting...	I'm pretty much a loyal fan of NR and this book was definitely interesting.  I was a big fan of Declan, one of the two main characters in the book.  However, I was not a fan of Lena, which was his love interest in the book.  He proved his love for her through the book over and over again.  She on the other hand proved just the opposite. She played so hard to get to the point where I was hoping he would just let her go and move on to someone else that would return his love.  Even by then end of the book I did not feel that Lena had any real feelings towards him and definitely not love.  The story was good and believable but there was compassion and real love missing from Lena which made the ending lack.  He once again gave into her and asked her to stay when she was more than ready to walk out and give up.	2002-02-26
US	43515007	R3PU9N0RCYEUVD	0671021435	567915716	Amaryllis	Books	1	1	9	N	N	This book went from boring to just really bad...	This is the second book that I have read by this author, under the name Jayne Ann Krentz.  I picked it up from the library.  Had I known this book was by the same author that wrote, \\"Dawn in Eclipse Bay,\\" I wouldn't have bothered.  <br />Not only was the concept not believable but it was just plain stupid.  The writing is juvenile and the characters were neither interesting nor likable.  I found myself not caring one way or another about the out come of the book.  ...  It was a real struggle to finish this book.  For those of you who will read this review before you read her book, DON'T... Try JD Robb, you will not be disappointed.	2002-02-12
US	43515007	R3JBTSQVLLGNAV	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Not what I expected.	I am a fan of JM but she fell short on this novel. After reading and enjoying 'Whitney, my love' and 'A Kingdom of Dreams'; {along with most of her other books; all in which I have enjoyed} I had high expectations for this one and I was very disappointed. I didn't like the fact that he never says I LOVE YOU once to her. That was a big turn off for me.	2002-01-25
US	43515007	R156Q7IWD8ALMI	0515122491	427292200	The Maze (An FBI Thriller)	Books	1	13	18	N	N	This book was terrible...	Ms. Coulter is one of my favorite historical writers. But this book was just plain horrible.  I don't know how anyone of you that read this book actually managed to give the book 5 stars.  It was horribly written.  The book actually starts off really good, which is how you get trapped into reading the rest of it in the first place.  As the book goes it starts to make no sense at all.  Too many things just don't add up.  Too many questions are left unanswered.  Like did Douglas and Lacy's mother have an affair?  If not then why in the world did Ms. Coulter write that part in, where he goes into her hospital room and display the show of tender affection that he did???  HELP ME OUT WITH THAT ONE PLEASE.  I also have some other strong issues concerning this book but I don't want to give away the plot and reveal the very stupid ending for anyone that just has to read this book.<br />I've decided to stick with her historical writings and when I'm in need of suspense writings I will look elsewhere.	2001-12-21
US	43515007	R2FJJ9MJ4OMX1Q	0380813750	275487255	Before the Dawn	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beverly E. Jenkins does it again...	5 stars B.J.  The book is wonderful.  I read it inside of 4 hours.  Great history lesson on top of a beautiful love story, with some serious action.  These are my favorite types of books to read.  <br />Indigo is still my #1 favorite... If ya haven't read it...Do so ASAP... It's another keeper I promise.	2001-10-16
US	43515007	R3C4JS4UY7HLY3	0451402340	999168322	Secret Song (Song Novels)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	GOOD BUT?	I've read all of the songs and hey, they were pretty good but do these men have to be so cruel.  Ok I can handle a little bit of cruelty to keep the story intesting {because ain't nothing worse that a man with no back bone} and hey, I like it ruff sometimes.  It just seem likes these men are extreme.  So in Ms. Coulters case the men get the chance at playing hard to get, or at least that's how I view it.  The women however realize they love their men early on and want to be with them.  In some cases I don't see how, {FIRESONG} He was an abuser and an adulter.  There is no way I could have fallin for him.	2001-08-21
US	43515007	R1Y6P5A4SLV3V5	0451402383	236170956	Fire Song (Song Novels)	Books	4	18	24	N	N	OK PEOPLE, lets talk about this one...	OK so I gave it 4 stars, I will agree that it really deserves one star but HEY. I will also admit that I like it a bit rough on occasion and I love a man with some back bone. I don't mind being man-handle a little, but the adultery and the rape thing, I had a hard time dealing with. He would have really had to find me, and I don't mean at my daddy's house either, ok.<br />Graelem rapes his wife Kassia, than gets mad because she's afraid of him and doesn't wanna have sex, so he cheats and she pretty much excepts this behavior. Not me, Not ever... Now Blance and Nan, off the hoook girls. I would have poisned Blance the day I got back and she lied on me to my husband in my face. And Nan, {which is Graelem's mistress and a servant ta boot} Kassia walks in and see's her husband havin sex with the help, and she tries to leave him, well he catches her and makes her go back home and then threatens to rape her again if she ever tries to leave him. WELL HELLLLO RIGHT THERE OK. If I had to be there and Nan is there also, it would be on and crackin every time Graelem turned his back. Every time I saw her I would knock the fire out of her; I would just go into attack mode every morning and would stay that way all day long. Graelem would have gotten rid of her just to save her life. <br />Kassia got in some good licks herself. She slap him in his face about a good 3 times. I just wish she would have had more of a back bone. There was so much more Ms. Coulter could have done with Kassia's character to make more of a force. Don't think I'm crazy but I really did enjoy the book and by the end of the book I was rooting for Graelem to get his wife back. She loved him, he loved her. HEY I'm a sucker for a happy ending, even if it took a bit long for him to come to his sinces.	2001-08-21
US	43515007	R3FZLPY9RMXGJJ	1561006963	46135796	Rosehaven (Medieval Song Series)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	An OK read, if you have nothing else to do.	I found the book to be just an ok read.  Hastings was a likable character, she had me actually laughing at times with her 'act be for you think' rule.  Severin was very believable as far as men go, at least for that time period.  I found him to be just a bit on the stupid side when it came to his little silver headed goddess that could do no wrong in his eyes.  One of my favorite characters in the book was the Healer.  but I dont understand why the love potion didn't work or why was it even included in the story just for the subject to be dropped like it was.  That was the only confusting part of the book to me. <br />I am a avid reader of historical fiction and have read at least 2 other of Ms. Coulter's novels.  the sad thing is in all three of the books that I have read so far all of the husbands are cheats and don't really fall in love with their wives until the last 50 to 20 pages of the book.  Why is this Ms. Coulter?	2001-06-18
US	43515007	R1MN43AUTOGCC4	0451402383	236170956	Fire Song (Song Novels)	Books	1	17	18	N	N	he's a cheat!!!!	The book might have been good if Ms. Coulter hadn't turned the main charater Graelam in an insecure adulter,  I also hated the fact the his adultery was never really delt with.  The book was 463 pages long and he only realized he loved his wife after 422 pages.  That was just too long Ms. Coulter.  The sad this was even after she lost their 1st baby he was still eyeing other women and the adultery didn't stop. <br />I'm glad he realized he loved Kassia but I still can not imagine him ever acutually being faithful to her under any circumstance.      <br />The book was heartbreaking to say the least, and the so-called happy ending came just a little to late for my taste.	2001-06-18
