US	43556126	R1UCVAYOMD8AEW	0140262881	859967900	Philosophy and Social Hope	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A great introduction to Rorty and pragmatism	The essays collected in Philosophy and Social Hope cover a pretty wide span, from philosophy (of course) to academia to literature to politics, but they rarely fail to be interesting and accessible. I particularly enjoyed some of the early essays, which serve as an excellent introduction to pragmatism, an set of ideas I previously wasn't very familiar with. This was because I'd recently thought myself into an intelllectual corner of sorts, and certain aspects of pragmatism provided a neat way out. I don't agree with all aspects of it, but the ones I disagree with were still useful to read about.<br />On the less philosophical topics, Rorty is a bit less consistent. His perspectives on academia are quite interesting, and certainly backed up with personal experience, but on politics he is not as good. His knowledge of politics and economics doesn't seem to be particularly exhaustive, and he often fails to back up his assertions with specific examples or verifiable evidence. Rorty's political writings are still worth reading, and I agree with most of his opinions, but he isn't nearly as cogent or authoritative there as in philosophy.<br />There are also a couple of essays that I just skipped over because they seemed to be obscure commentaries on intellectual disputes I knew nothing about. This is not a widespread problem in the book, though, and it is well worth reading whether or not you have philosophical background knowledge. (My own knowledge of that area is pretty limited.)	2003-09-14
US	43556126	R2BJB0N57B71C1	0553278223	726968599	The Martian Chronicles (The Grand Master Editions)	Books	2	8	19	N	N	I don't understand why this book is so highly regarded.	I've heard this book referred to as a &quot;masterpiece of science fiction&quot; more than once, often from sources that suggest it isn't simply publishers' hype. After having actually read it, I cannot understand why. Bradbury's characters, by and large, are pretty thin. That might be forgivable if he were writing in order to set a mood or make some kind of interesting point, but his writing style tries too hard to be poetic, and his ideas are mostly pretty trite. There are quite a lot of books that cover colonial insenstivity, nuclear war, and the supposed meaninglessness or self-destructiveness of modern life, and Bradbury's doesn't stick out from the crowd.<br />This could be partly because the book doesn't fully cohere. I know that it is supposed to be a connection of linked short stories, not a traditional novel, but Bradbury seems to have frequently changed his mind about the most fundamental aspects of his version of Mars. I might not mind this if I thought he was trying to make a point by presenting radically different kinds of Martians at different times, but that wouldn't be consistent with his somewhat superifical handling of many of the other ideas in the book.<br />There are several stories in The Martian Chronicles that do succeed, and I suspect I would have been more impressed with it if I had read it when it came out. I can certainly see how it could seem impressive to someone who had read little or no science fiction, or literature in general. Still, it didn't have a lasting effect on me, and it looks pretty anemic next to, say, Ursula K. LeGuin or Gene Wolfe. If you are new to science fiction, I would refer you to one of those authors, or to a number of others. They have more interesting things to say than Bradbury.	2003-09-14
US	43556126	R34RQSFJHS1HRZ	0312270828	270992916	The Satanic Verses: A Novel (Bestselling Backlist)	Books	3	15	23	N	N	And the point would be?	I don't feel entirely comfortable reviewing this book, because I am not sure how much of it I understood. Another reviewer remarked that it is necessary to be well-versed in Islam to understand the ways in which Rushdie satirizes it, and that seems to be correct. My knowledge of Islam is probably better than the average American's, but it's still pretty rudimentary, and I don't doubt that that interfered with my enjoyment of the book.<br />That said, I think that even for me, this book should have held together rather better than it did. The writing is often very skillful, as I would expect from Rushdie, but what he is writing about is problematic. The themes are often confused, and the different subplots usually seem to be unrelated. The characters, though they show occaisonal flashes of credibility, generally seemed unrealistic and uninteresting, at least in comparison to those in some of Rushdie's other books.<br />Often when I start to read I highly regarded book, I get bored quickly at first, but am hooked once I pass a certain critical point. I expected that to happen with this book. It never did. I'm reluctant to give a wholly negative review because I think there may be a good book under here somewhere, but in order to find out I would have to reread it, and I'm not confident that the additional time investment would be worth my while.<br />Midnight's Children, one of Rushdie's earlier works, is one of my favorite books, but this book does not come near it in quality as far as I am concerned. There is probably some group to whom The Satanic Verses would appeal, but I am not it, and you may not be either.	2003-09-06
US	43556126	R1HKCIDS7GJYRW	0679732241	161451712	The Sound and the Fury: The Corrected Text	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the few really great American novels	Let me get one thing out of the way first: this book is not for everyone. If you like to have things explained to you, or if you don't like having to fill in gaps, don't read it. Faulkner does not stop to explain or to hold the reader's hand, and having finished the book, I can certainly understand why.<br />That said, if you are willing to put some effort into it, this book will more than repay your investment. Once you get used to the writing style, it is tempting to read it like any other book, but if you do that you'll miss important details and nuances. Very few things Faulkner mentions are insignificant. There is one passage toward the beginning of the second chapter that's particularly difficult, but don't give up, as that chapter later contains some of the most incredibly beautiful prose I've ever seen. The sheer emotional weight of this book is tremendous, even if concealed at first.<br />The novel is a bit easier to understand if you have a few pieces of background information. Minor spoilers follow:<br />1. Italics usually indicate a time shift, but there are a couple of time shifts without italics.<br />2. Benjy has several different caretakers: Versh when he is a small child, T.P. when he is an older boy, and Luster when he is a grown man. This is helpful for keeping track of time.<br />3. There are two Quentins: the narrator of the second chapter, and Caddy's daughter.	2003-09-01
US	43556126	R3O24GJFTOO005	0393324397	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents (Norton Paperback)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Numerous good ideas, largely sunk by poor presentation	This book begins with a clear mistake, namely its title. It focuses almost exclusively on the International Monetary Fund, a miniscule segment of the subject of globalization. I would be kinder to this book almost a priori if Stiglitz had made it clear from the outset that he was writing about the IMF, instead of writing the title and introduction for a book on globalization and then about a tenth of the actual book. This lack of clarity extends to the rest of the book, which can be disorganized, repetetive, and sometimes even rambling. The documentation is also largely insufficient. At the risk of sounding arrogant, I think my own writing is generally better than this.<br />All of that is a real shame, because if you take the time to look, there actually is a devastating critique of many IMF policies in this book. Stiglitz makes a convincing case that IMF prescriptions often fly in the face of good economics and common sense. I don't necessarily agree with everything he says; in the chapter on Russia, the only area I'd previously read about, there are a few questionable points. Nevertheless, almost all of his major arguments are sound as far as I can tell, and I certainly respect him as an economist.<br />Many of the criticisms I've seen levelled against the content of this book seem to be based on misunderstandings of Stiglitz's policy recommendations. For instance, it's been argued that the IMF could not have established \\"rule of law\\" in Russia. That's true up to a point, but the IMF could have pressured the government to move in that direction to a greater extent than it did or, more likely, simply paced its economic reforms with existing political reforms instead of implementing them a a time when they did little good. It's also worth noting that Stiglitz has other criticisms of the IMF's Russian policy which do not involve rule of law.<br />I also didn't get the feeling, as some did, that Stiglitz was mainly out to settle scores. It's a stretch to say that heaccuses Stan Fischer of corruption. He simply points out that Fischer is involved with financial institutions and therefore tends to see things from that point of view.<br />I have serious concerns about the policies of the IMF, WTO and World Bank, as well as their lack of accountablility and transparency. I would dearly like to see a cogent criticism of those organizations from a credible economist, rather than the borderline-incoherent radical leftists we often seem to get. Stiglitz has the knowledge to write that book, but for the most part, he hasn't done so. I would advise him to take a little more time for his next work, and if he should happen to discreetly hire a ghostwriter, I wouldn't take it amiss.	2003-08-29
US	43556126	R24U2UI2YU94VP	0679753796	323270866	Dance Dance Dance	Books	4	5	6	N	N	So I can dance after all?	Before I start actually reviewing this book, I should note that I haven't read any of Murakami's other books, so I can't comment on how this one compares. I was also unaware until just now that the book was a sequel to \\"A Wild Sheep Chase.\\" I actually have a hunch that \\"Dance Dance Dance\\" works better without having read that book, but obviously I can't say for sure. At any rate, it stands on its own.<br />Despite containing many impossible things, \\"Dance Dance Dance\\" is a very realistic book. I say this because not everything that happens fits neatly into an overarching structure, and some events never end up making sense. Neither of those things are true of most novels, but they almost always apply to real life. The characters, weird as they are, almost all have authenticity. This is especially true of the nameless protagonist.<br />It's necessary to learn what to expect from this book. If you read it looking for a straight-up mystery that resolves itself in the traditional way, as is tempting, you will be disappointed. What you can expect is an entertaining, darkly surreal, and ultimately reassuring story which probably would have been classified as urban fantasy had it been written by an American or British author or magical realism had it been written by a Latin American. Seen that way, I really can't think of any particular flaws in it. The lack of a fifth star is due to the absence of superlative things, not the presence of bad ones.<br />The authors this book reminded me of most were Philip K. Dick and Neil Gaiman, though it doesn't resemble either so strongly.	2003-07-03
US	43556126	R3W299B4UTED0V	0060529709	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Overrated? Surprisingly, no.	It's a pity that there was so much hype about this book, and in particular the relative youth of its author. Books that are publicized in that way tend to be bad, but for some reason I decided to read this one anyway. That turned out to be fortunate.<br />I should note here that I'm writing this less than an hour after finishing the book. It is entirely possible that in a couple of days I will realize that it is deeply flawed and downwardly revise my review. At the moment, however, it seems to me to be a masterpiece. (I wish I could come up with a more original term than that.) Foer has many interesting things to say about fact, fiction, truth, falsity and history, and the differing parts of the book are securely connected emotionally and thematically. The structure of the book is a bit unusual, but only in ways that serve the novel. It seems a bit egotistical at first for the author to put himself into the book, but much less so when you consider that he is not the protagonist. He exists in the book mainly by implication, and the author is always there in that way.<br />The only problems I have detected so far are fairly minor. Alex's broken English is a bit gimmicky, but I have to confess that I enjoyed it, and in any case it mostly disappears after the first few chapters. All the intentional anachronisms tended to get on my nerves. More importantly, the chapters involving Foer's (fictional) grandfather seemed to contain less worthwhile information than the rest of the book. Still, the book is definitely recommendable, and manages to be a page-turner of sorts to boot.<br />Jonathan Safran Foer has a website at (originally enough) [...] where he sheds a bit of light on what is fictional in this book and what isn't.	2003-04-21
US	43556126	R1KQINCUX5KHXX	0679727221	916996744	The Defense	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The prose of madness	The back cover of this book proclaims that it is &quot;a chilling tale of obsession and madness.&quot; After I had finished the book, I thought this a laughable statement. There had been almost nothing frightening or chilling about it. A few seconds later, I stepped back and reevaluated what had actually happened in the book. A certain sentence in (I believe, though I could be wrong) the third-to-last paragraph hit me with a strong retroactive spook.<br />I consider that moment one of the finest moments of literary appreciation I have recently experienced. The reason it happened is that I had effectively become Luzhin. What he was thinking made perfect sense. The plot was in no way disturbing. Luzhin was perfectly reasonable under the circumstances. Except, of course, he wasn't. Nabokov leads the reader into Luzhin's head remarkably smoothly and successfilly.<br />This book was the first I read by Nabokov. Since I have not yet completed another, I can't say how it compares with his other books, but I can recommend it. One caveat: don't read Nabokov's introduction until after you finish the novel. there are a couple of reasons for this, which will become apparent when you do read it.	2003-04-19
US	43556126	R2CA9LEQLVUPR8	0425167283	430499125	Election	Books	4	2	3	N	N	I swear there was a book here a moment ago.	I read this book in one sitting in a local bookstore. Because it was so short, I never became attached to any of the characters, and the story did not develop any real weight. Still, it isn't fair to criticise a book for brevity alone, and I thought that the characters interesting--Perrotta seems to have a talent for telling you a lot about someone through implication. He also evoked the early 1990s remarkably well, or at least I assume he did. (I wasn't paying much attention at that time.) The high school in the book is an excellent microcosm for human pride, folly and stupidity, as students and teachers take absurd risks to secure a completely useless and ceremonial position. This isn't a classic book, but it is a better way that most of spending an hour and a half.	2003-04-19
US	43556126	R2ARRZYQUAYIBY	0156453800	817453848	Invisible Cities	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Brilliance	Jorge Luis Borges once wrote that it is a sin to write a long book when the idea for it could be explained in a few pages. I don't entirely agree, and I doubt Italo Calvino did either, but from this book alone he certainly could have.<br />The reason I say this is because Invisible Cities consists purely of ideas. There is no plot and only two major characters, who are really not characters so much as plot devices. (Perhaps not plot devices, since I just wrote that their is no plot, but I think you understand.) There is only a series of thoughts on perception, memory, time, and many other topics, explained through a series of descriptions of fantastical cities. Sometimes the meanings of the cities are clear, but most contain various degrees of enigmaticism.<br />This book is short, but I don't recommend trying to read in one or a few days. It seems to work best if you read it a little at a time. My only real complaint with the book is that it seems to end arbitrarily rather than concluding. This is a brilliant book.	2003-03-10
US	43556126	R2AUIZR8BA0XU4	0140132708	903668876	Midnight's Children	Books	5	3	6	N	N	I get it now!	The first time I tred to read this book I got about one third of the way through. It didn't hold my interest. I liked the writing style sometimes, but it didn't seem to be going anywhere. Then I tried again. This time I found it much easier, but I was still sometimes bored, and I was not sure why this was such a great book. Finally, I started nearing the end, and I began to figure out what this book actually was. It wasn't so much some particular thing in the book at that point as the entire narrative starting to cumulatively come together.<br />This book is a masterpiece, entirely deserving of the Booker Prize it won. It gives one a sense of Indian history--not the country as a whole, which would be boring and impersonal, but as lived by the protagonist, Saleem. (And presumably by Rushdie, who is almost the same age--though the novel as a whole is certainly not autobiographical.) The humor, joy, tragedy, and anger all work. This was the first book of Rushdie's I read. It will not be the last.	2003-02-24
US	43556126	R33LJM76GKX6IF	0152024603	766839073	The Wizard's Dilemma  (Young Wizard's Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I'm glad I went back!	I read the first four books in this series in 6th (7th?) grade, and they were some of my favorite books at the time. I didn't reread them for several years, afraid they wouldn't be as good as I remembered them being. ...P> This is one of the best books--not children's or young adult books, but books, period--I've read in a long time. Few books make me enthusiastic enough to read them in one day, but that's what I did with this one. Duane's magic is very technical, but it also manages to be very magical, if you know what I mean, and no one else writes other universes quite the same way. I stayed involved throughout the book, and the climactic scene was spectacular. Perhaps I have not been very informative yet, but I honestly can't think of much else to say. I would recommend that you buy the book, but you know that already. One caveat--avoid reading the back cover. It gives away some things that don't happen until more than halfway through.	2003-01-19
US	43556126	RW6N7LFDRMN4P	0415160499	108195163	Concise Compendium of the World's Languages	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Fun book, poor editing	This book makes for interesting browsing material. It has descriptions of plenty of languages--short, but long enough to have some interesting information in them. Unfortunately, it is not very accurate. Other reviewers have noted mistakes; I have found a few others, but none are occuring to me at the moment. The information is cobbled together from a wide variety of sources, which means that the phonetic transcription is inconsistent and some of the information is contradictory. The editor obviously did not know all of the languages in the book, which is to be expected, but it allowed plenty of clumsy errors to creep in. Some important information is also missing, especially where orthography is concerned. Instead of this book I would recommend Bernard Comrie's &quot;The World's Major Languages,&quot; which covers many fewer languages but with greater depth and accuracy.	2002-11-29
US	43556126	R2PT11ZGO5Q4SS	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Missed opportunities	I enoyed this book quite a bit. The pacing was excellent, and I was rarely bored with the book, though the Ravna/Pham/Skoderiders storyline took a while to get off the ground. Vinge's universe has plenty of interesting concepts in it, and unlike so many &quot;epics,&quot; this book actually has a conclusion to match what came before.<br />If I had voted in the 1992 Hugos, though, I doubt it would have been for this book. We never actually find out much about what goes on in the galaxy outside of the protagonists, and the setting didn't really come alive. The Tines are one of the most original and well-thought-out alien species I've seen in a long time, but none of the other aliens were terribly interesting. The characterization is also spotty. The Tines, again, were excellently characterized, but the humans and Riders were less so. The Blight, the main antagonist, is just an intelligence that runs around and destroys things; we never really find out much about it, and it never really becomes appropriately horrifying. Fortunately, Vinge makes up for this with a pair of convincing and very effective other villains, namely Steel and Flenser.<br />This book is better than the majority of the SF out there. Read it for the ideas, plotting, and the charcterization in the Tines/Jefri/Johanna storyline, but don't expect it to be the truly great SF novel I think it could have been. For an example of that, try Hyperion by Dan Simmons, which pulls off some of the things Vinge fails at.	2002-11-21
US	43556126	R3L9015FGPZH8S	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Missed opportunities	I enoyed this book quite a bit. The pacing was excellent, and I was rarely bored with the book, though the Ravna/Pham/Skoderiders storyline took a while to get off the ground. Vinge's universe has plenty of interesting concepts in it, and unlike so many &quot;epics,&quot; this book actually has a conclusion to match what came before.<br />If I had voted in the 1992 Hugos, though, I doubt it would have been for this book. We never actually find out much about what goes on in the galaxy outside of the protagonists, and the setting didn't really come alive. The Tines are one of the most original and well-thought-out alien species I've seen in a long time, but none of the other aliens were terribly interesting. The characterization is also spotty. The Tines, again, were excellently characterized, but the humans and Riders were less so. The Blight, the main antagonist, is just an intelligence that runs around and destroys things; we never really find out much about it, and it never really becomes appropriately horrifying. Fortunately, Vinge makes up for this with a pair of convincing and very effective other villains, namely Steel and Flenser.<br />This book is better than the majority of the SF out there. Read it for the ideas, plotting, and the charcterization in the Tines/Jefri/Johanna storyline, but don't expect it to be the truly great SF novel I think it could have been. For an example of that, try Hyperion by Dan Simmons, which pulls off some of the things Vinge fails at.	2002-11-21
US	43556126	R26W7QPILMPUH	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A mixed successor to Perdido Street Station	This book is set in the same world as Perdido Street Station, an earlier book by Mieville. I recommend reading that book before this one. They don't share characters or plot, but that book contains exposition about the world of Bas-Lag that this one does not have, so it may make this one easier to understand.<br />My first question concerning this book was whether it would be a worthy successor to PSS. In some ways it definitely is, but in others not. The characterization is a definite improvement. Isaac and co. in PSS were reasonably interesting, but they didn't have all that much depth, which is probably why I downwardly reevaluated that book somewhat after I reread it. The characters in The Scar are considerably better, and since I consider characterization the most important part of a novel, I think it is probably the better of the two.<br />On the other hand, Perdido Street Station gained recognition more for its fantastic setting than anything else, and in that department The Scar is slightly disappointing. I didn't find the new locales as interesting as New Crobuzon, although they're still remarkable. Also, the plot sometimes lagged a bit, and the ending contained a significant plot hole, whihc would be difficult to describe without major spoilers.<br />I think this is Mieville's best book yet, but by a relatively narrow margin, and I doubt all his readers will agree with that contention.	2002-10-27
US	43556126	R1X15X2K2J0YUT	0380792923	846552587	Signal to Noise	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Hard to put down, but not completely satisfying	Signal To Noise is a fun, fast book. Nylund's style is completely readable, and he frequently had me on the edge of my seat--this is the kind of novel where you can read two hundred pages in one sitting. The plot is suitably complex, and some of Nylund's ideas are quite interesting. All in all, I enjoyed it a lot...but as my star rating indicates, there are major problems. The protagonist is decently well-developed, but all the other characters are quite thin. When one character is supposed to be undergoing a significant personality change, it has no impact on the reader because we barely know what she was like originally. The writing style is also uneven; there are some very clumsy sentences in here, as well as some misused words. (Nylund must need a new editor--one would think that a good one wouldn't leave untouched mistakes that a high school student could catch.) Finally, some aspects of Nylund's future don't quite ring true. He falls into the commmon trap of always using physical metaphors for computer functions, even though computers don't, and probably never will, work in the same way that the physical world does. The different types of aliens were also able to communicate with humanity much too easily. Image files constructed by one operating system aren't even always readable by another OS designed by the same species, let alone a different one!<br />Eos has promoted this novel as &quot;hyperpunk,&quot; but they have never said exactly what this means. It suggests some kind of relationship with cyberpunk, but this Signal to Noise doesn't really have a cyberpunk feel, even if some of the technology is similar. I don't think that there is any need to create a new subgenre for this book. It's a science fiction novel.<br />Those who are going to read this book may wish to know that the ending is grim in the extreme. This hasn't changed my rating, of course, but it might be a disappointment if you are reading for light amusement. It does, however, set things upfor a potentially very interesting sequel, and one which I will probably buy, despite this book's flaws.	2002-07-20
US	43556126	RTGOHJTB4CDQV	0312937342	310117205	Soldier of the Mist	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Not the best by Wolfe, but good	This book is set in Ancient Greece, during the Persian Wars. The protagonist, Latro, is a soldier who has recieved a head wound and forgets very quickly. Therefore, he keeps a journal to tell himself who he is and what has happened to him--and that journal is this book. When I first heard about this, I was skeptical that a coherent novel could be written this way, but Wolfe makes it work without stretching believability too much.<br />Wolfe describes the setting effectively. In order to prevent the reader from using prior knowledge of Greek history or mythology to unfair advantage, he usually replaces the Greek proper names with the protagonist's translations (sometimes incorrect!), which are then rendered into English. This makes the reader nearly as disoriented as the characters, making the book more interesting. Some readers may be annoyed that Wolfe never stops to explain anything, but I think it's better this way, since it avoids the contrived plot devices and character behavior that are often necessary for more explicit exposition. Wolfe's characters are realistic enough, and it's interesting to watch Latro's development as a character and the ways he deals with his affliction.<br />Of course, I do have some complaints. The first few chapters were boring, and sometimes the plot seemed to drift, as if the author, as well as Latro, had forgotten what he was doing. This aside, Soldier of the Mist could make a good introduction to Wolfe for those who find the New Sun series intimidating. I rarely had much trouble with that longer (and better) work, but some do, and they may be glad that the worldbuilding, allusions, and descriptive language have been toned down. If you have already read and liked Wolfe, then read this. It won't change your life, but it is a solid and rewarding novel.	2002-07-18
US	43556126	R24E3YNCTHTQVF	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good read	Have you ever really looked at a big city? Not just glanced around at the shops and the tall buildings, but actually looked? I have, and with so much space and so many people, I get the feeling that things must be going on that most people don't know about. How much more is there than meets the eye? <br />Neverwhere  grabs that feeling and runs with it. Richard Mayhew is an everyday guy who lives a normal life in London. One day he sees a girl bleeding on the street. She obviously needs help...but why doesn't she want to be taken to a hospital? Why can't anyone else seem to see her? And, most importantly, who are these unpleasant-looking men knocking on Richard's door? Richard and the reader are quickly drawn into London Below, a world where you never know what will show up next and where nothing (and no one) is as benign as it would seem. The book is extremely readable, darkly funny, and filled to the brim with allusions. <br />Unfortunately, there are several major problems with this book. The characters are mostly stock, particularly Richard, who is a little too everyday to seem realistic, especially considering what he manages to do by the book's end. The plot, at its core, is a fairly standard one, and you're likely to figure out many of the surprises well before they come. What really disappointed me, though, was the way Gaiman failed to flesh out so many of the characters and groups he describes. A sense of mystery is a good thing to some extent, but it would be nice to know who the Seven Sisters, or the people with goggles, or any number of others, really are. There were also a few other things that made very little sense, such as the elevator down to the labyrinth. <br />Despite these flaws, Neverwhere is still a good book, and I recommend it. It's also a quick read, so even if you don't like it, you won't have wasted mushc of your time. The only book I know of that surpasses its sense of urban weirdness is Perdido Street Station by China Mieville. I'll besnapping up Neil's latest book, American Gods, as soon as it comes out in paperback.	2002-07-18
US	43556126	R17E55RNJBO3U0	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Startlingly original	I will begin this review with a one-sentence summary: Perdido Street Station is one of the most blazingly original books I've read in a long time.<br />The setting is the city of New Crobuzon, which is currently in its Industrial Revolution. (It's unclear whether this world's technological development remotely resmbles our own, but this is the closest approximation.) New Crobuzon is filled with humans, several races of &quot;xenians,&quot; and biothaumaturgical cyborgs known as Remade. Factories spew noxious chymicals into the River Tar, and militia troops pass overhead on the skyrails. In a laboratory apartment within the vast city, a scientist named Isaac Dan der Grimnebulin is peacefully working on his latest obsession when an exotic visitor arrives with a very unusual request. Though the task seems difficult, how can he refuse? He immediately sends out a request for experimental subjects that may help him, but none prove interesting...except one caterpillar of a species unknown to him--and we all know what caterpillars do, don't we?<br />This is a long book, but it doesn't feel like one. It rarely drags and never feels padded, and I stayed up quite late to finish it. Mieville continually bombards the reader with vivid and fascinating images. Of course, some of these images are a little too grotesque or graphically violent for some, and somethimes the book seemed so grim that I wondered &quot;Why am I reading this?&quot; (Of course, you know the answer to that by now.) Mieville's writing style somehow seemed a little off for the first chapter or two, but either it got better or I got used to it.<br />Good as this book is, it isn't perfect. The plot isn't bad, but it's fairly standard monster-hunting stuff--though there are plenty of interesting twists thrown in. There were also a few technological incongruencies that are hard to explain away by divergent development.  Also, the ending may not please everyone. It isn't exactly a tragic ending--all but one of the main characters are alive and sane at the end, and they accomplish their main goal--but it can't be called happy, either. Oh, and the names. &quot;New Crobuzon?&quot; &quot;Salacus Fields?&quot; I could have done better at 12. This seems to be a hole, if a relatively small one, in Mieville's talents. At the end of the day, though, all these flaws are fairly minor compared to the book's merits.<br />I've sometimes wanted to tell people what the book is similar to, but I've generally failed. The back flap says that Mieville is reminiscent of Charles Dickens, Franz Kafka, and Neal Stephenson. It lies. The only similarity with Charles Dickens is the setting's technological level. It's also nothing like Kafka except for a few common thematic elements. As for Neal Stephenson....it's long and strange, but those are about the only similarities. I've heard it compared to Mervyn Peake, but that seems almost nonsensical to me. The closest thing to New Crobuzon that I've read about is, oddly enough, Sigil--a city from an old Dungeons and Dragons campaign setting called Planescape...but forget it. This review is getting quite long, and you already know whether or not you're interested.	2002-07-18
US	43556126	R3SE67SSKYV17J	0441002846	232264731	The Engines of God	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Okay, but heavily flawed	The Engines of God is an interesting book in many ways. Ancient monuments scattered through different star systems and mysterious, extinct alien races have a certain appeal for me, and they were indeed interestingly described. The Quruquat civilization (which may be misspelled, since I can't find my copy) is well done, and McDevitt does a good job of releasing the mystery slowly but surely. The writing style is simple and clear, and the book harkens back in some ways to the glory days of SF writers like Clarke and Asimov. <br />Yet, I can't wholeheartedly recommend it. The characters aren't particularly well drawn, and some of the things that happen to them don't make sense. For example, McDevitt kills one character off randomly, in a way that contributes nothing to the plot. Also, he falls into a common trap by depicting the future as being exactly like the present, only with faster computers and interstellar travel. His 23rd century comes off as a 2050 at the latest, and I would have guessed that it was a 2020.<BR>   <BR>Then there was the ending. The Engines of God is a hard SF novel's hard SF novel until the last few pages, when the solution to its central conundrum turns out to be wildly unrealistic and completely incomprehensible. The ending simply wasn't satisfying, and I can't say that the book is of much more than average quality.	2002-07-18
US	43556126	R2Q6IXN7R11AK8	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The definitive work of epic fantasy	Maybe it is pointless for me to give this book (which is split into three volumes, but is really one book, and which I will refer to as a book) its 443rd review. There isn't really anything that will make this text stand out from all the other five-star reviews around it. I will say, however, that this book is every bit as good as people make it out to be, and I'm not some seventh grader who sings the praises of every fantasy book he comes across because he doesn't know how much better books can get. (I used to be, though.)<br />Of course, this doesn't answer the question that is really worth answering: why is it so good? The reason is not obvious. True, I like the characters, but they are heavily polarized and not good enough on their own to make a great book. The writing style is grand and epic, and that certainly adds something, but it wouldn't help if Tolkien had had nothing to write about. The plot was much more original when the book came out than it seems today, but it isn't superlative.<br />The only thing left is the setting, and I think that this is indeed where the secret lies--but what, exactly, is it about the setting? I've seen other settings that should, by rational analysis, have been just as good, but they weren't, and as the Tolkien-mimics have shown, a setting that resembles this one quite closely isn't necessarily as good as it is, or good at all, for that matter. I think the answer is that Tolkien put his soul into this book in a way few authors could. His deep love for his creations shows through, and I can't help sharing it. This is also why Tolkien's imitators are not good authors, for the most part; they take him as a model in exactly the wrong way. Tolkien wrote a book based on his own interests and passions, and fantasists should emulate that, rather than the specifics of his creation, which can't work correctly in other hands.<br />Of course, just because I consider this book an amazing work of art doesn't mean that I agree with all the ideas it contains. Tolkien seems to equate the East and South with evil, and gives the Orcs curved swords and slanted eyes. He also places great importance on descent. Hereditary rulership was all well and good in the pre-democratic Middle Ages, since it prevented wars from breaking out every time the monarch died, but we don't need to promote genetic determinism today. (Of course, we must also consider Tolkien's choice of protagonist; Hobbits are not marked out for greatness.) The book sometimes also presents a romanticized view of warfare that I don't consider desirable, though there are other passages that contradict that view.<br />My only other criticism of the book seems pale in comparison to the previous ones: the first few chapters of The Fellowship of the Ring seem like a sequel to The Hobbit. I love The Hobbit, of course, but its lighthearted tone doesn't mesh well with the epic scope of LotR. If you have started to read the book and are getting impatient, keep reading! Once Strider appears, everything will change, and you will get what you came for.deas it contains. Tolkien seems to equate the East and South with evil, and gives the Orcs curved swords and slanted eyes. He also places great importance on descent. Hereditary rulership was all well and good in the pre-democratic Middle Ages, since it prevented wars from breaking out every time the monarch died, but we don't need to promote genetic determinism today. (Of course, we must also consider Tolkien's choice of protagonist; Hobbits are not marked out for greatness.) The book sometimes also presents a romanticized view of warfare that I don't consider desirable, though there are other passages that contradict that view.<br />My only other criticism of the book seems pale in comparison to the previous ones: the first few chapters of The Fellowship of the Ring seem like a sequel to The Hobbit. I love The Hobbit, of course, but its lighthearted tone doesn't mesh well with the epic scope of LotR. If you have started to read the book and are getting impatient, keep reading! Once Strider appears, everything will change, and you will get what you came for.	2002-07-17
US	43556126	R2RBFY00MIUHVX	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	1	14	22	N	N	A waste of time	If you are looking at this review, you have probably already seen accusations that this book is a ripoff of The Lord of the Rings. They are completely true. Even if they were not, however, this book would still be a waste of time. Brooks' writing has been called easy to read, but I found this book arduous enough to slog through that I never actually finished it. You already know what is going to happen, and the setting and characters would not be interesting enough to hold up a 100-page novella, let alone something like this. It reads just like The Lord of the Rings, except that all the magic and originality has been removed. Seeing what happens when an untalented writer tries to write a book like this makes me appreciate all the more what a gifted man Tolkien was.<br />If you want to read fantasy, read The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings. If you have already read them, or were unable to finish them (I don't dispute that they aren't for everyone!) then try Ursula K. LeGuin, Fritz Leiber, Gene Wolfe, Mervyn Peake, George R. R. Martin, China Mieville, Tad Williams, Roger Zelazny, or even Robert Jordan. Just stay far, far away from this book.	2002-07-17
US	43556126	RG2UWWXD28L9G	0684855887	975511373	Middle Passage	Books	1	20	31	N	N	THIS won the National Book Award?	I read this book in a class, and although the teacher who assigned it usually has good judgement, he made a serious mistake in this case. This book is lacking in just about every respect. Except for the protagonist, the characters are mostly boring and one-sided. The plot is contrived in the extreme and relies far too much on improbable coincidences. It is also much too predictable, with an overly pat ending which wrecked any suspension of disbelief I might have retained. Some of the events just don't make sense; for example, the protagonist opens a ship's log at one point and within a short time knows the entire life story of the captain in a high degree of detail. The only really interesting plot element is abandoned without any kind of resolution.<br />There are also numerous errors in this book. It is laden with glaring anachronisms (which may be intentional, but serve no useful literary purpose) and factual contradictions, and the author is apparently ignorant of the definitions of words like \\"octave\\" (a unit of pitch, not volume!) and \\"iamb\\" (a type of metrical foot of which \\"Falcon\\" is definitely not an example). The way the story is told makes little sense. At first, I thought it was a journal, but realized that it referred to future entries. Eventually it came out that the narrator was retroactively completing a ship's log, but things still don't make sense--even if someone doing that used date-based entries, he would not split one conversation between two entries that were three days apart solely for dramatic effect.<br />I'll give credit where credit is due--the writing style was sometimes entertaining and the descriptions of the god were interesting. Aside from that, this book is a waste of your time and money. I have no idea why the National Book Foundation would give it any particular notice.<br />As a side note, the aforementioned English teacher (who will not, I think, be assigning this book again--I am not alone in my opinion) believes that this book is a parody. If it had been presented as one, I might evaluate it differently, but the cover, the blurb, and even the editorial quotes, as well as some of the more serious themes, all indicate that it is intended as a serious work, and I think we should evaluate it that way,	2002-06-14
US	43556126	RHVX7CVPEUYAX	0679879269	731430286	The Amber Spyglass (His Dark Materials, Book 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lots of merits, lots of flaws	I can see why there is such a wide span of opinions about this book. It has many things going for it, but there are also many serious problems with it, and everyone has a different idea about how much worth these things have.<br />Let's start with the good stuff. The wonderful imagination Pullman showed in the first book dimmed a little in the second, but most of it seems to be back now. Lord Asriel, one of the more interesting characters from Book 1, returns, along with several others. We get interesting new worlds and some new ideas. The plot moves at a good clip. In short, there is plenty of enjoyable stuff.<br />Now for the problems. Pullman seems to have difficulty tying up all his plot threads, which sometimes leads to characters doing nonsensical things. Also, he attempts very ambitious things that he can't always pull off. Depicting celestial beings in a satisfactory way is very, very difficult, and I'm sorry to say that it doesn't really happen here. The scene depicting the defeat of the Metatron, in particular, is disappointing. And the conclusion...well, suspension of disbelief is a little tough. Pullman should have drawn out the books so his characters aged more.<br />If you liked the first two books, you might as well read this one. I didn't find it entirely satisfying, but I was glad to have the conclusion. Judging from this page, many people weren't let down at all--maybe you will be one of them.	2002-03-01
US	43556126	R3CX7S99QCB6WM	055357549X	662074373	Holy Fire (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A convincing future	With this book, Bruce Sterling has created one of the most believable futures I have read. Most of his predictions are well-reasoned, and he doesn't overlook the social consequences of his technologies. The characters are believabler as well, although Mia/Maya is the only one fleshed out at length. Sterling's writing style is good; although he isn't exactly a poet, his sentences and paragraphs are clear and the book is quite readable. The only real problem is the plot, which is a little hard to follow. Personally, I can enjoy a good setting as well as a good plot, but if you demand plenty of action then you might not like this book.<br />Unfortunately, I haven't found Sterling's other novels to be as good as this one--I wasn't that impressed with 'Distraction' and didn't even finish 'Heavy Weather.' His short stories are well worth a look, though.	2002-02-28
US	43556126	R1CTA2Y9IHLT83	0345413369	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Something of a disappointment after Book 1	This is certainly a solid four-star book, and approaches five stars in many ways. It is only disappointing for two reasons: beacuse it comes after a nearly perfect book, and because it is so ambitious that it sets itself up for failure. Pullman is very skilled, but he is even more ambitious. If the second two books in this series were about anything else, they would seem truly great, but in order to deal with universe-shaking topics, one needs to be a writer of universe-shaking skill, and few, if any, authors have that.<br />Although I am somewhat disappointed by The Subtle Knife and The Amber Spyglass, I applaud Pullman for being brave enough to attempt them. He isn't completely successful, but what writer would be? Has ANY writer ever done this successfully? Someday I will read Paradise Lost, Pullman's inspiration, to see if even it lived up to its subject matter.	2002-02-28
US	43556126	RWS4JBDT6L6TU	0061059056	514374276	Hogfather (Discworld)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best Discworld books	Of all the Discworld novels (How many are there now? Quite a few, anyway) this is one of the best. Susan Sto Helit and the personified Death are two of Pratchett's best characters, and they're at their best here. I won't get into the plot; suffice to say that there is a plot, and it is a good one. As has been pointed out, the humor is darker in some places than is typical for Terry, but it's still the same comic personality. The end of the book has a thoughtful edge, as Terry's best books tend to at some point, but somehow it doesn't seem incongruous. Highly recommended.	2002-02-25
US	43556126	RBFFZ8WAVT616	0446606790	183868419	The High House	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An impressive first novel	James Stoddard is clearly an author worth knowing about. His worldbuilding is simply wonderful, and his description is good, although a little more would have been nice in some places. The characters are mostly believable, and the plot is enough to keep the book moving. Above all, he seems to be an author with good ideas. (Actually, I've had some of these ideas myself; I'm slightly irked that he published first, though obviously it's not his fault.) Of course, the book isn't without flaws. Though he calls the villains anarchists, that isn't really what they seem to be, and they don't always act in ways that make sense. (Why a bobby, anyway?) There's also the occasional line of hokey dialogue...but who really cares? This book is still more imaginative, more interesting, and more fun than most of what's out there, and I suspect Stoddard will iron out many of the problems in his next few books. Enjoy.	2002-02-16
US	43556126	R2ZCGBVDK8B4LV	0886777992	359194039	This Alien Shore	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flawed, but very much worth reading	This book has many advantages. The plot moves along at a steady clip, with enough tension to keep you reading. The characters weren't bad, though I've seen much better. The best thing, though, was the setting. I found Gueran society to be utterly fascinating, and it was that, more than anything else, that made me like the book. Unfortunately, some of this future's features aren't scientifically justifiable. The concept of Hausman variants doesn't make sense as it's described here. Also, the depictions of computers were unrealistic; Friedman talks about programs as if they were physical objects that move from place to place leaving their previous locations vacant. If you can accept that C.S. Friedman does not write hard SF, you should read this. It's engaging and interesting.	2002-02-01
US	43556126	R1R113D4UW4620	1885705026	30470303	Please Understand Me II: Temperament, Character, Intelligence	Books	3	6	13	N	N	Not quite sure what to make of this...	People can't be sorted into types, right? Everyone knows that. The Enneagram, which was the first personality categorization system I encountered, just proved this further. Many people don't even fit into it, and although I do, I've moved about three points since my early childhood, which is supposed to be impossible. I wasn't expecting much better from this book.<BR>I read over the short descriptions of the letters and decided I was probably an INTP. I took the quiz, and sure enough, that's what I was. When I turned to the section about NTs, I was surprised at how accurate the description was. It included some things that wouldn't have been easy to extrapolate from my answers. Keirsey does get a little too abstract sometimes, getting into all kinds of odd symbolism that's not really connected to the system. Still, I was impressed.<BR>The problem is that Keirsey presents this informaton as if it has some practical use. It isn't easy to categorize other people unless you know them very well. I also can't be sure how accurate any of this is--I could easily be something of a fluke. Even If someone can be definitively identified, what can be done with that information? It isn't specific or reliable enough to be anything more than a complicated parlor game. However, this is still an interesting read. After all, we INTPs like systems, even useless ones.	2002-01-31
US	43556126	R203HWPSMOT3NC	0312890176	219764161	Shadow & Claw: The First Half of 'The Book of the New Sun'	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A series that deserves more recognition!	This series is one of my favorite works of fantasy. Admittedly, the characters can be a little flat sometimes, but the writing style is wonderful, as is the setting. Unlike most fantasy writers, Wolfe doesn't merely describe a copy of medieval Europe or some other historical setting. Unlike most science fiction authors, he doesn't merely create a copy of the present with faster computers and interstellar travel. He has created something truly alien. The obscure vocabulary that other reviewers have mentioned does not occur nearly as often as some would have you believe. Frequently, Wolfe just uses an existing word when another author would make one up. On other occasions, he avoids a more usual word because it would link the setting too strongly to something else.<BR>Gene Wolfe is a master author, and he has written a story that can be read on multiple levels. You can enjoy these books by reading them like a simple adventure, or you can look for all of the allusions and hidden meanings that they contain. Either way, you'll likely want to reread them. These books should be better known. I hope that the publisher will reissue them in mass market paperback, since reduced prices might prompt more people to pick them up.	2002-01-21
US	43556126	RKIRHTI2Y45E1	1587154366	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen: The Book of Ambergris	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A good, but imperfect and short, collection	This book is a collection of four stories set in the city of Ambergris. Though there are tenuous links between the four, they are separate works and I will discuss them separately.<br />\\"The Early History of Ambergris\\" was the first of the four I read, though it is actually second in the book. It is an extremely funny account of the city's history, told through the persona of an imaginary historian. Despite the humor, it seems more real than one would expect, and I found myself forming opinions on the authenticity of imaginary documents. Now that I have read the acknowledgments, I find that the writing style is actually a real historian's. I must find out more about that guy.<br />\\"Dradin, In Love\\" is the first story, though I read it second. It is a Kafkaesque nightmare, starting out in mere confusion and spiralling downward into madness. Unfortunately, it doesn't contain anything really interesting; it's just a sequence of progressively more disturbing images, few of which are particualrly original or aesthetically interesting. Not that another review on this page gives away something extremely important about this story.<br />\\"The Transformation of Martin Lake\\" is much better. It chronicles a series of dramatic events in the life of an Ambergrisian artist. Though magnificent for what it tells, it is also infuriating (in a good way) for what it does not tell. It is also genuinely scary, more so than much so-called \\"horror\\" fiction. I would call this the best story here.<br />\\"The Strange Case of X\\" is the shortest story, and feels almost like an addendum. It is very interesting, as so many stories about madmen tend to be. VanderMeer's descriptive language is wonderfully hallucinatory. I regret that it was published here, however, as this caused me to assume from the start one of the story's crucial surprises.<br />Though the stories included here were very good, I was disappointed that the city of Ambergris itself did not figure more strongly into the book. Otherreviewers here and elsewhere have said that the setting is incredible, but it didn't come alive for me in the same way that Middle-earth, New Crobuzon, or the other truly great settings do. I also felt somewhat shortchanged, given how little text there is here relative to the book's price. <br />In his introduction to this book, Michael Moorcock writes that \\"It's what you've been looking for.\\" I have indeed been seeking something like this collection, but it didn't quite fulfill my hopes. I do recommend it, though. It's very different from anything else I've read, and VanderMeer has some truly original ideas. In his next books, I may indeed find what I am looking for.	2002-01-06
US	43556126	RTCP5T02LBEZ8	0879306289	27154518	All Music Guide to Electronica: The Definitive Guide to Electronic Music	Books	3	3	7	N	N	A useful resource, but why buy the book?	This book is the best (and, admittedly, the only) guide to electronic music I have ever seen in book form. However, all the information in this book is also available for free at allmusic.com. Since the website is updated and hypertextually cross-referenced, the book is actually a somewhat less useful format, albeit more convenient in some ways. Of course, buying it does give money to the people who thought to create such an exceptionally useful resource.	2002-01-06
US	43556126	R2X33869W1HF7V	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best Discworld books	This book is simply hilarious. All of Terry's books at least make me crack a smile at one point, but only a few are truly comedy masterworks, and this is one of them. I don't want to give away much of the plot or any of the jokes, so this won't be a very long review. Suffice to say that this is one of the best religious parodies I've read. Some other reviewers have found this book offensive, but unless you're a very touchy religious conservative or a Catholic from several hundred years ago, I doubt you'll mind. None of the characters in this book occur in other books, which makes this an ideal start to the Discworld series.	2001-10-17
US	43556126	R1VXWX838UCSJQ	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	3	3	5	N	N	I'm glad I didn't start here.	This book, along with the next two (The Light Fantastic and Equal Rites) is far from the high point of the Discworld series. Terry hadn't yet refined his style, and these books don't have much of a plot. True, there are some good jokes, but nothing as memorable or hilarious as Pratchett came up with later. The series didn't really get off to a good start until Mort was published (and what a start it was...). If you haven't read any Discworld yet, you should start with Mort, Small Gods, or Guards! Guards! and come back to this one later. Or, start here, but know that it will get quite a lot better.	2001-10-14
US	43556126	R2NT0NXY8ETLVB	0061054895	746993744	Soul Music (Discworld)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fairly average Discworld book	If you've read any of Terry Pratchett's other books, you know pretty much what to expect from this one. Most of his books are built around a satire of something, and as you have most likely figured out, this one is primarily about rock music. The more you know about music, the more of these jokes you are likely to get. There are plenty of good jokes here, as there are in most Discworld books, but there are also some dull sections, and the conclusion is a bit weak. If you haven't read any Pratchett, don't start here. This isn't his strongest effort, and it is a sequel to Mort. If you are already a Discworld fan, you won't be blown away, but you'll find that it's as good as most of his books.	2001-10-14
US	43556126	RTL60JVVYZP13	155634127X	886969708	GURPS Basic Set	Books	5	13	18	N	N	GURPS: What's Not To Like?	I agree with other reviewers that GURPS is probably the best system on the market. It lacks both the restrictiveness of D&amp;D et al. and the clunkiness of Storyteller. The character creation rules are extremely flexible. True, it can take a while to get the hang of creating GURPS characters, but I found it to be worth it. The most common complaint about the system is that combat is too complicated, but most of the rules are really optional. When I started playing, I used a sort of &quot;pidgin GURPS&quot; until I figured out the more advanced stuff.  You can play GURPS with the Basic Set only, but the other books can be very useful depending on what kind of a game you're running. Compendia I and II are always useful, but the others can vary:<br />Fantasy: GURPS Magic is _vital_ for any fantasy campaign. Grimoire is OK, but not as useful. Compendium I is necessary for designing nonhuman races. The currently released &quot;GURPS Fantasy&quot; is for a specific world that I never found too interesting, but watch for the upcoming  GURPS Fantasy Campaigns.<br />Science Fiction: Ultra-Tech is good, as is Compendium I for the reasons described above. Space is very useful, but not as necessary as you might think. I've heard that Aliens is great, but haven't been able to find a copy.<br />Other/General: High-Tech is a useful reference. Religion is one of my favorites; it's useful for any world-builiding efforts. As for GURPS Illuminati, I really can't say anything about it except that I liked it. They could be watching me...	2001-08-15
US	43556126	R1RFMQGYLFHDYR	0812566629	212689501	Darwinia: A Novel of a Very Different Twentieth Century	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A good book, but not a classic	Darwinia has an interesting premise: Europe disappears overnight, replaced by a similar continent with completely different flora and fauna. The main character, Guilford Law, is part of an expedition to cross the Alps, or what _were_ the Alps, anyway... I liked the initial focus on Darwinia itself, and assumed that this would be a semi-hard-sf adventure novel about exploration. After all, the cover quote compares Wilson to Jules Verne and Edgar Rice Burroughs. A little less than halfway through the book, I found out that I was completely wrong. This book isn't even remotely similar to anything Verne or Burroughs ever wrote! I was disappointed at first, at least about the Verne part. (I was never much of a Burroughs fan.) However, this book did resolve itself into a good book, not the book I'd been hoping for, but certainly worth reading. My complaints about the novel are as follows:<br />&lt;Warning: Spoilers ahead. Stop here if you plan to read the book.&gt;<br />Several major things were never adequately explained. We never find out exactly where the psilife came from, where Darwinia came from, why the psilife built the city, or why the psilife would bother enslaving humankind instead of just destroying it. The (not-so) final battle never resolves--we eventually find out who won, but we don't actually see them win. Despite these shortcomings, Wilson's writing style manages to salvage the book. I'll definitely be looking into his other works.	2001-06-21
US	43556126	R236UEMATCW0X6	0380788624	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Mess That Works	This book is, structurally speaking, a bit chaotic. The storyline covers World War II and the present day simultaneously. Stephenson often goes off on tangents semirelated to the storyline, and metaphors or seemingly minor events an take up pages. It sounds unreadable, but Stephenson's skill makes it work. The book rarely becomes slow or hard to read. While grim in some places, it's humorous in others--I laughed out loud several times during this book, something I rarely do while reading. Cryptonomicon is a fascinating story that gives many insights into computing and cryptography. My only complaint with this book is the ending, which amplifies plot elements that Stephenson deemphasized before and leaves much of the plot unresolved. Fifty more pages would have been enough, but it feels like Stephenson's publisher forced him to finish. If computers bore you, or if you insist on a straightforward plot with no digressions, then avoid this book. If you don't mind a book that wanders, though, then by all means check this one out.	2001-06-14
