US	43567428	R3HY9TVN76LKQE	0374528497	64824201	The Metaphysical Club: A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	3	3	N	N	William James, Oliver Holmes, Racism, and Old Glory	This is a must read for anyone interested in American history. City University of New York's English professor Louis Menand has crafted an excruciatingly erudite yet accessible tale of America's past superimposed on the pretext of The Metaphysical Club: a group of turn of the century American intellectuals. William James, Oliver Holmes, and John Dewey are well known but with them we also glimpse the intellectual sparkle of Charles Pierce and Chauncy Wright, among others. While these individuals are fascinating in their own right, Menand developes credible biopics of these men (and briefly Jane Addams) as a backdrop to explore America, her Civil War, and its aftermath; with an intense focus on the nightmare of racism that loomed so very large in these events. To this very day one hears the argument that \\"the civil war wasn't really about slavery.\\" Oh by the way, coffee's not really about caffiene. Author Menand's perspective starkly contrasts the pride laden Protestant iconography of classical liberalism. Also central to this tale is the founding of the prominent American university, primarily Harvard. Through the history of Harvard we see the face of American racism, which remains our unwelcome relation of today, woven into a fabric of science and society. Founding Harvard scientist Louis Agassiz ushers us on a journey into the logics of the ivy league that fostered the eugenics societies which sprung up like dandelions at the county fairs and university faculty rooms of America prior to world war II (at the behest of the father of statistics, Francis Galston). American racism, science, religion, and economics pours forth from these pages like a stew seasoned with Kant, Hegel, Marx, and dare I say, the obscure American school of philosophy known as Pragmatism (a sort of Puritan's watered-down esixtentialism). Menand does a remarkable job of recalibrating history while piously honoring its authors, whose most worthy members seldom glow as hot as their dark and destructive affiliates. This is a critical yet admiring chronicle of post-civil war America, the turn of the century, and just beyond, written with insight, comprehension, and a jaundiced eye.	2003-07-07
US	43567428	R1TQ28VB3QDTIF	0385318901	818366000	The Red Hourglass: Lives of the Predators	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Grice takes on arthropods with Poe-like sensitivity	What the reader gets with this book are seven essays written by a literary/humanities based college professor on seven particular predators: the black widow, the praying mantis, rattlesnakes, tarantulas, pigs, dogs, and the brown recluse spider. The writing is surpisingly good and the subject matter, while somewhat dark and gory, is fascinating.<br />The reader from Michigan calls this book 'backyard naturalism' in a derogatory manner. I am a biology major and, although the majority of Grice's claims appear consistent with similar data I have seen, this is not a hard science book; criticizing it in that context is an apples verses oranges category mistake. Conversely, I praise this work as 'backyard naturalism' at its best. I thoroughly enjoyed reading The Red Hourglass from front to back. Take a bit of Peter Matthiessen's literary organicism, a pinch of Steven King's macabre involvment, E. O. Wilson's entomology, a dash of Desiderius Erasmus' sad, pragmatic humor, and some of Montaigne's candor, and you can wile away sumptuous moments zoosynthesizing the adventure of the 'The Incredible Shrinking Man' crossed with a bored boy's deific experimentation with arthropods, among other animals; all written with starkness and skill. What's a long pig? one may ask. The very sight of egregious brown recluse bites makes me kiss the soil of northern California.<br />This book is a good mix of the literary and scientific milieus. It draws one in by the curiousity and repulsion of the subject matter as ruse for the author's peculiar expository skill.	2003-02-13
US	43567428	R2YTZEDOBIU3F9	0380977540	610239243	Acid Tongues and Tranquil Dreamers: Tales of Bitter Rivalry That Fueled the Advancement of Science and Technology	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Acid Tongues is OK Science, but Boring Literature	If you're really into science 'Acid Tongues and Tranquil Dreamers' is a sufficient documentary of eight fairly substantial events in the history of science. If you're not a science aficionado then I imagine it could be a pretty tedious read. I like science very much and enjoyed the scientific theme but found author Michael White's (ex-member of the 80s synthesizer band 'Thompson Twins') writing style tepid and his thesis muddled. Aside from the author's style and thesis the eight essays, ranging from the development of calculus to the Microsoft corporation, stand on their own and, hence, possess a great deal of content. White's thesis that rivalry possibly promotes great endeavor is a tautology already implied in the essays. The mundane background given on the human subjects of these stories, although probably necessary, tends to bog down the pace of the book. As a chronicle of the development of science and technology in the western world I'd say this book is useful and worth the time spent reading it. It is written, however, with the zing of a middle school textbook. Reading it is a struggle between its richness of content and lack of literary acumen. Depending on how important these two elements are to the reader is likely a good indication of how much one would enjoy reading this book.	2003-01-28
US	43567428	R3NJSE63X3YTJF	014044307X	646099933	Love (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	18	23	N	N	The 'Cold Philosopher' Analyses Reproductive Behavior	Although sex, love, and reproduction can be differentially manifest they derive from a common causal nexus. By examining the behavior of love Stendhal indirectly addresses the conscious mode of sex and reproduction. Unlike the pagan attitudes toward love of many before him and as observed in modern times, Stendhal's love is well dressed, well mannered, honest, quixotic, honorable, and implausible,...yet witty, saucy, importunate, irrational, and realistically disastrous; quixotic I think being the rubric term. Indeed, the book reads like a serially condensed version of Cervantes' encounters between the true hearted lads and lasses of 'Don Quixote.' Stendhal even goes so far as to recommend Cervantes in Lisio Visconti's list of literature. In this book you will essentially get the following:<br />I). Stendhal's psychology of love, in which the stages of hormone poisoning and its concomitant cognitions are delineated. Within this framework he introduces his neologism 'crystalization;' i. e., as in how a plain twig, when left in a salt mine for some time, is pulled up covered with stunning, perfect crystals: these crystals representing the amplifications and embellishments the lover's mind dresses their object in. Stendhal goes on quite a bit regarding feminine pride, showing blatant respect and reverence for his objects of desire, but lamenting such foibles as false modesty, insipid prosaism, and vanity love.<br />II). This section reads like a cultural travelogue of love for western Europe from the early 19th century. Here love is a ruse used to chronicle what he sees as regional stereotypes of behavior. His self-deprecating dislike of all things French and antipodal regard for all things Italian pervades his cross-cultural mind set. As a Frenchman Stendhal only accepts the 12th century chivalry of Provence. This section of the book also evidences his strong advocacy of women's rights (although he does recommend life imprisonment for adulterous wives), and his excellent psychological juxtapose of Don Juan and Werther.<br />III). The fragments are probably the weakest part of the book but they add texture and pace. As the introduction by Stewart and Knight suggest, the fragments are an attempt to weave objective credibility into Stendhal's otherwise lugubrious pining over Mathilde Viscontini Dembowski.<br />IV). The appendixes are an interesting anecdotage containing chaplain Andre's 31 articles of love from the 12th century French court, and further elucidation of crystallization and it's advent in the salt mines of Salzburg. Here the book ends with two engaging tales, the near pedophilic chivalry of Philippe Astezan, and the vanity love of Felicie Feline.<br />Overall, Stendhal is lugubriously Quixotic, wittily irreligious, and insouciantly saucy. He captures a mixture of Laclos' intrigues, Plato's daemon of the Phaedrus, and Montaigne's candor. A dated but highly original work.	2003-01-17
US	43567428	R27A3NLQEXY1HY	0070358753	596049187	The Language of the Cell (MCGRAW HILL HORIZONS OF SCIENCE SERIES)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Brief overvfiew of modern cell biology	This 100 page book from the McGraw-Hill &quot;Horizons&quot; science series is a translation from the French Hachette &quot;Questions of Science&quot; science series originally published in 1991. This makes the book 12 years old, but having just completed an upper division cell biology course a few weeks ago I can tell you the content of this little book is still fairly Fresh. Kordon does a good job of rattling off the latest in cell and molecular biology in a very qualitative, linguistic style that nevertheless manages to retain the essence of what actually occurs within and outside of the cell. It ends with an odd segue about disciplinary conscilience and politics, but this takes up only about 10% or less of the book. Mostly the book is about cell surface and intracellular signaling, immunology, developmental biology, evolutionary molecular genetics, with various proteins and hormones thrown in. I read this book once before I took cell biology and once after. It was a little confusing in the former case and a little simplistic in the latter, but each time it still conveyed a vast amount of information in a very short span; making the book, I think, a brisk, rewarding read for both the scientist and lay reader alike. Kordon makes a couple of credible stabs at correlating neuroendocrinology with social behavior and describing putative molecular evolutionary possibilities in terms of highly conserved cellular signaling pathways; and all with that certain French flair. In attempting to explain his own clumsy explanations Kordon says,<br />&quot;No metaphor is really explanatory; rather, it reflects the cultural references through which we have been conditioned to decipher reality. But these cultural references play an important role in the way we look at the world. We have not yet really learned how to teach biology through the cultural references of our time, which perhaps explains why for many of our contemporaries its picture is still somewhat blurred.&quot;<br />How can you complain about a cellular biologist who is also a structural literary critic.	2002-12-29
US	43567428	R3G7PFUY2F73MK	0717801209	696014824	Ludwig Feuerbach and the Outcome of Classical German Philosophy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Concise Synopsis of the Advent of Modern Philosophy	At first I became interested in this book due to my interest in Feuerbach but was immediately overwhelmed by Engels' command of the history of European philosophy from the Greeks to his present time. From what little I have read of Marx himself, it seems an irony that history has placed Engels subordinately to Marx. Engels is a first rate intellect not to be overlooked. This brief, content filled book, \\"Ludwig Feuerbach and the Outcome of Classical German Philosophy,\\" is an excellent overview of continental philosophy and the brilliant zeitgeist that permeated pre-turn of the century European thought, and which has lamentably fallen into disuse in our own time. This book, published in 1888, takes us from Hegel to Feuerbach, to the most sublime manifestations of idealism and pragmatic materialism (hence Marx's dialectical materialism), conditioning for us all along the way religion and ethics; and all of this in the span of 50 pages. This book is well written, informative, and highly recommended for any student of European history, philosophy, sociology, and political science. It rather poops out at the end as Engels makes his final sales plug, but this weakness is tertiary to the overall scope and historical exegetics offered here.<br />The book really reads like a collection of four essays.<br />I). From Hegel to Feuerbach: This chapter is an overview of the failure of Hegelian thought that German philosophy was so imbued with in the mid-19th century, which also serves as a kind of marker for the beginning of modern philosophy.<br />II). Idealism and Materialism: This chapter is Engels version of sociology and psychological anthropology. His expectation of the emergence of a pragmatic materialism parallels that of Feuerbach's. This chapter leads through the death of idealism to the birth of materialism.<br />III). Feuerbach's Philosophy of Religion and Ethics: As the first chapter gives us an overview of Hegel, so this third chapter outlines the successes and failures of Feuerbach's thought. We also see the emergent thrust that led to Marxism in its organic position at the time of its advent, not as the polemics of conservative, Christian historians of today have painted it.<br />IV). Dialectical Materialism: Finally, chapter four outlines Engels's sociological expectations in the context of the preceeding three chapters; from feudalism to the industrial modernity of his time. Not only does Engels scetch out how Christianity became the possession of the ruling class as a means of government, but how philosophy too became a tool of their hegemony. His expectation that science would eventually meld with the worker rather than commercial interests belies the naivete that saw the failure of modern Marxism. His conclusion that philosophy too would emerge victorious along with the worker is certianly puzzling in hindsight, and can still be seen in the tenacious frustrations of post-modernism over the failure of Marxism.<br />Feuerbach aside, this little book is an excellent read full of vitality.	2002-12-01
US	43567428	R1TJ9MJAFVO5FC	0915145278	768865364	Principles of the Philosophy of the Future (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	19th Century Atheism Still Not Ready For Prime Time	The book \\"The Princicples of the Philosophy of the Future\\" is a look into the mind of a man convinced that pragmatic atheism was all but a fait accompli in late 19th-century Europe. Feuerbach set out to explore some of the possibilities about how modern (at that time) humans would transition from their mythical past into a more meaningful anthropology, psychology, philosophy, etc.; i. e., Feuerbach wanted to be among the architects of how we humans would respond in \\"pull[ing] [ourselves] out of the [psychological] mud\\" we had evolved from.<br />Philosophically, Feuerbach does a credible job of interpreting theism into a well structured pshycological description. He really does a far better job of this than the majority of his contemporaries and even most modern day thinkers. Although Camus observed as far back as the 1930s that god was really no longer an interesting discussion, and Nietzsche before him, for the purposes of Feuerbach's book one must realize that in the mid-19th century Hebrew monotheism was still a vital psychology. Feuerbach, a left Hegelian, offered a cutting edge analysis of how the logical mechanisms of organic cognition had been formulated into what his fellow Germans and other Europeans knew as Christianity, or religion.<br />His articulation of theism verses speculative theology is still a relevant schema, juxtaposing naive metaphysics with the complex logic of what Kant had called 'pure reason.' His anaysis of religion in this context, which he further contrasted with Spinozan pantheism as the precursor to atheism, is an excellent outline of the development of European thought as it emerged from antiquity into 19th-century scientific realism. In Feuerbach we see a cogent post-Hegelian synthesis of European philosophy, however obscure Feuerbach may be in modern times. Feuerbach's errors are aplenty here, as he casts much of his philosophy on the wager of pure sensation without delving much into cognition. This oversight is understandable however within the time frame he wrote in and does little to undercut the primary thrust of his message: the urgency and necessity of a post-religious, existential anthropology. His lack of focus on cognition leads him almost to an untenable level of idealism, but an idealism at least predicated on an organic anthrological perspective free of cartoonish metaphysics.<br />The object of his then 'new philosophy' was not an abstraction of humans as some Hegelian spirit, but \\"the real and whole being of man\\", warts, protein, myths and all; a type of reason that Feuerbach ironically called \\"reason saturated with the blood of man.\\" Feuerbach was capable of articulating a humanism really more serious and pragmatic than many of the versions we hear of even in today's world. Feuerbach is definitely an inspiration.	2002-11-30
US	43567428	RVYPBGA404I0	0394719859	901867030	The Gay Science: With a Prelude in Rhymes and an Appendix of Songs	Books	5	40	50	N	N	A Pretty Serious Gay Science	It's hard to give a cursory review of a book of aphorisms. This edition of 'The Gay Science' however comes with observations by the superlative Nietzschian commentator, Walter Kaufmann, who says that \\"this book is a microcosm in which we find almost all of Nietzsche: epigrams and songs, aphorisms and...philosophical problems, ethics and theory of knowledge, reflections on art and on the death of God, the eternal recurrence and even Zarathustra.\\" This is about as good a review of 'The Gay Science' as any.<br />I must say that of the 4 other Nietzschian works I have read (BG&E, Geneology of Morals, BOT, and Antichrist) this is the best, most complete, and most enjoyable so far. This book showcases Nietzsche for what is probably his most noticable strength: his ability as a psychologist and sociologist. He seems to have a good understanding of the types of innate moves people possess and utilize in their respective environments. Probably his understanding of exatcly what that environment is, namely, his sense of objective reality, is what allows him to comment so precisely on human nature. True, he's an indefensibly offensive misogynist and war monger, and that notwhithstanding, many of his observations are still germane in this day and age, which suggests an accute sense of psychology and anthropology on his part; although naturally a bit dated. Of course, I believe that in modern America we tend to discount the utter sagacity of 19th century Europeans in their pragmatism. Perhaps Nietzsche just seems sagacious compared to the discourse of present day America. His comments on hegemony, or how the ruling class manipulates the masses into cooperation are great. Nietzsche's love of science and his comments on the silliness of self-proclaimed objective types is excellent too. The opening aphorism of Book Two, entited \\"To the Realists-\\" is a clarion mockery to those so enamoured with logic that they deny, zombie-like, their own humanity and necessary (if not intentional) delusion.<br />Previously I was confused by Nietzsche's style. After hearing some lectures by professor Bob Solomon I came to understand how utterly ironic Nietzsche is trying to be in his writing from the outset. The title of this book, the 'Gay' science is trying to tell us that. Only by not taking Nietzsche seriously, by understanding his intentional irony and sarcasm, can one begin to hear him seriously. For all this book's sturm und drang it is frivolous and insignificant; and what of life isn't? so be gay and carefree my friends (while keeping watch with a jaundiced eye)! hence the nascent, cheerful, crushing existentialism of Nietzsche. Life is a tale told by an idiot signifying nothing, so let's go have a beer and catch some of the performance art of the wise, having ourselves a good laugh over their wardrobes and posturing. In this context, in his clever craftiness and irony, Nietzsche's message congeals to reveal the mind of, if not a mentally deranged person (who of us isn't after all), then a mind twisted into a sage of sorts who, motivated and feuled by an almost divine derangement, serves as a valuable alterego sibling. Nietzsche burns the midnight oil as a sibyl for our collective subconscious. This is the best work by Nietzsche I have read yet.	2002-10-29
US	43567428	R32YC4GTP0I63S	0674639413	887609032	Ontogeny and Phylogeny	Books	2	20	33	N	N	Serious competetion for barbiturates	Oh my friends, I tried Atlas-fashion but to no avail. This drawn out excercise in long haired erudition was simply too much for me. I'm sorry but there were cracks on the cieling that needed observing, weekends to be spent at the market and hangnails to chew. No, Ontogeny and phylogeny was simply not to be. I tried mind you, I read it up to page 223 where Gould set out to delineate De Beer's eight categories of heterochrony in part II, chapter 7 of this opus, where upon I cried \\"enough!!\\" I really like Gould too. I loved \\"Wonderful Life\\" and devoured \\"Ever Since Darwin.\\" Indeed, Gould waxed eloquently (and succintly) on neoteny, paedomorphism and heterochrony in \\"Ever Since Darwin.\\" Ontogeny and Phylogeny on the other hand will make you wish you'd never heard of these terms. I will say, having read part I, that I did get a thorough grounding in why Haeckel's recapitulation is untenable, but I was able to get that in one paragraph in Werner Muller's \\"Developmental Biology.\\" Maybe this book was just a bad personality fit for me, and lord knows I love biology better than money or food, but I found it to be a not pleasant to read, sparingly informative, massive waste of time. This may seem harsh to Gould-ophiles, but I'd be lying if I said otherwise. On a positive note, it did give a good historical account of such 19th century natural science luminaries like Haeckel, Von Baer, de Beer, et al, and the development of their thought. Maybe if I were incarcerated I'd read this book, as it is there are too many other interesting and rewarding activities to pursue.	2002-08-29
US	43567428	R3GRHAH77BMLTZ	0521427088	961314079	What Is Life?: with "Mind and Matter" and "Autobiographical Sketches"	Books	5	106	111	N	N	Not leading edge, but a highly readable classic.	It is not surprising that a genius would have interesting things to say. Physicist Erwin Schrodinger was an affable genius whose comments about life, molecular biology, mind, qualia, and a number of topics are interesting and relevant even today.<br />This edition of 'What is Life?' by Cambridge University Press also contains Schrodinger's essay entitled 'Mind and Matter,' along with some autobiographical notes. What is Life? is a well paced 1944 version of molecular genetics that is still valid today. Crick and Watson didn't discover the structure of DNA til 1953, so Schrodinger didn't know of replisomes and error correcting polymerase III, but this essay shows how well developed molecular biology was by this time. Crick and Watson were certainly in the right place at the right time by clearing up a minor bottleneck in the broader science of molecular genetics. Mainly what Schrodinger, the formulator of the quantum mechanical wave equation of atoms, wants to accomplish is to reconcile quantum effects with biology. What is Life? makes an excellent synthesis of quantum physics and biology. Where modern scientists like physicist Roger Penrose and chemist Graham Cairns-Smith fail at this correlation Schrodinger is eminently successful. Although this essay is somewhat dated it is stimulating and rewarding to read.<br />The second essay entitled 'Mind and Matter' written in 1956 is very similar to modern efforts in describing abstract neuro and cognitive science. It tackles many of the same topics as moderns Daniel Dennett, Gerald Edelman, and Antonio Damasio do. Schrodinger artfully blends the idealism of Schopenhauer with his own personal physicist's point of view and crafts a perfectly enjoyable, reflective discussion on the concept of mind. I actually enjoyed Mind and Matter more than What is Life? as it showed the intellectual range of Schrodinger better. His discussion of what he calls objectivation, or how the subjective and objective dynamics of the scientific observer influence one another was great.<br />Lastly, a brief selection of Schrodinger's writing about his own life rounds out this brief, thoughtful collection of essays by a world class scientist. This relaxing little book still exhibits the ability to invoke serious thought about the nature of life and the implications of consciousness.	2002-08-26
US	43567428	RNL728EBARRNG	1573926949	887601890	Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science (Great Minds)	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Heisenberg as literary luminary, with or without physics	Qualitative, descriptive books on physics, I think, are often unsatisfying because nothing suffices like actually doing the math to appreciate the full impact and enjoyement of what physics has to offer. Yet this hasn't prevented the likes of Einstein, Hawking, Feynman, et al, from attempting to do so. Perhaps for the professional physicist such works are interesting by virtue of their historical content, but the lay reader will likely find such works wordy and boring. This book by Heisenberg transcends this milieu however, with the author's shear brilliance and eloquence an admirable spectacle in and of itself. Heisenberg is a terribly smart fellow and that comes through thoughtfully.<br />This book reads like a collection of essays and, perforce, some chapters could probably be left unread without great harm. Chapter 7, 'the theory of relativity,' being a case in point. No, the real beauty of this book is not in its trenchant reflections on the mechanical behavior of matter, but more on its correlation with physics as a human endeavor, and the evolution of human thought in philosophical terms, as well as language and how it expresses ideas; these themes, philosphy and language, are artfully crafted and make this book significant, not the fact that we can make atom bombs or postulate a universe.<br />Heisenberg emphasizes the Copenhagen interpretation, which states that the observer effects the outcome of an experiment by the very act of having observed the experiment. This is of course true primarily in terms of atomic physics and not of macro events. For example, if you try to observe an electron you will have to use high energy equipment to do so, which will effect the behavior of the electron. On the other hand, if you observe a sparrow at 100 yards with a pair of binoculars you're not really going to effect the sparrow. By observing it with binoculars you won't break its neck, which is the equivalent of what happens when you observe an electron with x-rays. The idea however, that the observer, or participant, does inject a huge influence by simply participating is significant on a macro scale in linguistic terms; a notion Heisenberg effectively sets out in chapter 10, 'language and reality in modern physics.'<br />The varying contexts and extensive meanings of concepts and language can and do effect the outcomes of human interactions in myriads of unpredictable ways. Perhaps at a time in humanity's past we could consider language as a logical system where a person either knew what they were talking about or didn't, or was lying or telling the truth based on what they said; a no BS kind of world where wise men judged the testimony of others in courts of reason, much like what occured in witchcraft trials, or in the way the Catholic church judged Galileo for teaching Copernican ideology. We know better now days, and this is, I believe, why Heisenberg makes such a point of the Copenhagen interpretation; not to show that it applies to macro physics, but rather to show how it applies to language and psychology. It's a tough analogy but Heisenberg makes a remarkable effort that engenders contemplation and awe. After all, we still have wise men judging the testimony of others in courts of reason, a sobering thought. This stress on linguistics may seem insignificant today but was probably more germane to the time this book was written, in 1958.<br />If you like physics, philosophy, and psychology, not necessarily in that order, you'll probably like this book. Chapters 4 and 5 alone, the two chapters that track the birth of quantum physics philosophically, make the price of this book a worthwhile investment.	2002-08-13
US	43567428	RSQ6421CUZEPF	0471296465	176507030	Why We Age: What Science Is Discovering about the Body's Journey Through Life	Books	4	9	10	N	N	All the latest lore on aging, health, and nutrition	This is a relaxed, somewhat witty book on aging and health by a zoologist with an emphasis on evolutionary biology. I particularly enjoyed Austed's use of statistical analysis in the beginning of the book in distinguishing popular notions about aging from what the raw data has to say. Austed uses statistics beautifully here. When Kant was trying (unsuccesfully) to formulate a science of metaphysics, he asked what other real life example of synthetic (additive) thought a priori was used by people. Math! Austed uses math to demonstrate apodaectically that what we generally refer to as extending human life is no more than altered longevity due largely to water purification, antibiotics, and less back-breaking labor rather than an actual delaying of the aging process. He also shows how our species tends to begin dying at about ten years of age according to the statistical dictate of mortality-doubling time. The limits of how old we may grow as determined by genetics is evidently about what it was back in Socrates' time, although these days longevity is greater. If cancer, according to professor Austed, were eliminated we could add a couple of more years to average longevity and likewise with heart disease; the two most prolific killers in the industrialized world. However, even if we unrealistically eliminated all disease, not only would our genes kill us somewhere around 90 years of age, but many of us would die from accidents in any event. Aging is determined by our genetic program and chance, not necessarily in that order, and the only possible hope we have for extending our limits of aging per se lies in some far off genetically engineered discovery. Presently, if you don't get flattened by a bus, your genes will get you, no matter how many vitamins you scarf down.<br />As for special diets, lizard's eyes (special vitamins), and magnets and crystals, these are largely placebo actuators. Unless you have special nutritional needs, a sensible diet, adequate sleep, moderate excercise, and being rich are about as much as you can do to determine your future health and longevity outside of avoiding firefights with religious fanatics and other testosterone dementias. Austed doesn't really address low stress as a longevity booster except perhaps to mention the nobles tended to live longer than peasants in pre-antibiotic days. Austed excecutes a revealing discourse on tales of how certain societies in far away mountain regions tend to live to older than normal ages by eating goat yogurt and smoking ginko leaves: these are folk tales and the author uses various examples of innoent charlatanry to demonstrate exactly how gullible people are when they very badly want to hear what they've already made up their minds to believe.<br />I was a bit unmoved by Austed's refutation of the cellular Hayflick limit's role in aging. While controlled cell division is certainly crucial to normal development and cancer mitigation, cells, like whole organisms, are also sitting ducks for unforeseen catastrophy. A non-regenerating cell is also an accident waiting to happen through injury, free radical damage, or deliterious mutation. In terms of generalized deterioration (aging) nonregenerating cells are eventually going to deteriorate to the point where they outnumber healthy nonregenerating cells, at which point, disfunction (aging) is certain to occur; but then what do I know, maybe this is just \\"what I want to believe.\\"<br />Austed's observation that we seek a way to study certain whale species for their menopausal physiology (rare in the animal kingdom) and lower than human cancer rates is intriguing. How this would be accomplished outside of simple skin sample research is questionable however.<br />All in all a good book to have read for interpreting the almost daily media reports of miracle breakthroughs in aging and health. Austed's reliance on hard statistical analysis is very helpful in this context.	2002-08-08
US	43567428	R2GZJQQGGWYR5K	0375700730	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A mini-vacation for the scientifically curious	I had not read Sacks before and was laid up in the Peninsula hospital in Burlingame. This book was lingering on the shelf at home and I had my wife bring it to me. Soon the beige walls and IV tubes dissapeared and I was fighting the humidity of the tropical south pacific. This book reads like a travelogue, a report on achromatopsia (congenital colorblindness), the lytico-bodig (an alzheimers/parkinsons like condition), and the fern-like batonical oddity of cycad trees, among other things. The description of the ruins of Nan Madol was awesome. Where one reviewer found this literary style to be 'rambling,' I found it to be deliciously lazy and ambling. Sacks employs the device of digression with a pace that sort of stones you. Maybe this motif was influenced by the kava Sacks took on Pohnpei.<br />In any event, the book opens by delving into the congenital malady of acute colorblindness known as achromatopsia. Sacks learns of a little micronesian island with a large population of sufferers and follows his nose there with a couple of buddies, one of who is himself achromatopic. Soon we are on a small plane island hoping our way to the tiny atoll called Pingelap. You can virtually feel the tropical breeze reaching up your shorts. The description of achromatopsia is excellent. One almost imagines oneself as colorblind, seeing the world in a new perspective. Indeed, the light sensitive achromatopics here are often employed as night fishermen due to the advantage of their sensitive night vision, to catch flying fish in the phosphorescent waters of the warm Pacific. Sacks' attitude toward pathology is most admirable. He truly sees the afflicted as no more or less than whole people with differences, not partial or disfunctional people that are not normal. All of the afflicted in this book are examined respectfully and equitably as functional, whole, living organisms instead of sick and inferior. Geniune pathos appears where warranted but never condescendingly.<br />Next we're off to the volcanic island of Pohnpei and the megalithic ruins that remind us these islands &quot;were once the seat of monumental civilizations.&quot; More achromatopics are encountered here, along with the acculturational clash between these Pacific island cultures, a collection of population bottlenecks colonized by Southeastern Asians, and Europeans. We visit the rainforest and encounter delicate, endemic, flourescent ferns, and forests of sakau, the local psychopharmacological substance of choice.<br />Then it's off to Guam to study the neurological disorder called the lytico-bodig of mysterious etiology. The island practice of consuming the toxic seeds of local cycad trees is supected as a cause of this condition, but it is unclear if it's caused by the eating of paste made from cycad tree seeds or is genetic in origin, as it seems to run in families. Sacks reaches into his experience with encephalitis induced coma patients and L-DOPA treatment in exploring the lytico-bodig. We also meet up with the ecological tsunami of the brown, tree-climbing snake which has consumed all the birds on Guam.<br />The last island is Guam's small neighbor Rota, where islanders take Sacks into the jungle in search of cycads, where we also find the leafless Psilotum nudum, whose ancestor was &quot;the first plants to develope a vascular system, to free themselves from the need to live in water.&quot; Also visited are giant land crabs with claws powerful enough to open coconuts.<br />Maybe it's because I was trapped in a hospital, but I thoroughly enjoyed this travelogue, investigative science, and wistful reminiscence of the biological and cultural underpinnings that have brought us to this place in the present.	2002-08-03
US	43567428	R164190UHN3FZ7	0520210646	121373385	Microcosmos: Four Billion Years of Microbial Evolution	Books	4	15	16	N	N	An action packed theory of everything book	A theory of everything book begins with the big bang and concludes either with modern humanity or our someday-to-be colonization of the stars. This offering by the mother/son team of Margulis and Sagan is now 16 years old and a bit ragged around the edges, but still an informative read. Margulis' claim to fame is the symbiosis theory now standard fare in college biology texts. It states that mitochondria and chloroplasts were once free living bacteria that became trapped in other bacteria, giving rise to eukaryotic cells. Margulis also hypothesizes that flagella were once free living spirochetes. Her emphasis on nonhuman life (mostly prokaryotic) as the dominant biological mover is refreshing and she takes us on a virtual tour of the inception of life on this planet, accompanied by a nifty geological time chart, through to some pretty farout scenarios of how life might escape our one day to be dead sun. She goes as far as to posit Homo photosyntheticus, or plant people, who have chloroplasts in their skin and eat light.<br />Most of us think of evolution as darwinian survival of the fittest, with cheetahs and gazelles in a competitive arms race for survival. This book more accurately portrays selective mechanisms as predominately cooperative and microbially based. Certainly we would not be here to contemplate at all were it not for our ancestor bacteria, and this mocrobial history is written into our very genome. Approximately 5 % of our genome is putatively defunct viruses for example.<br />Chapter 2 is a pretty good synopsis of prebiotic chemistry. Chapter 4 gives a good definition on the disparateness between sex and reproduction. Chapter 5 shows how bacteria are essentially one ubiquitous species that casually transfer genes horizontally. Chapter 10 gives a great account of meiosis and mitosis and their permutations in the two biological domains, as well as fairly debunking the notion that the value of sex is its superior ability to offer genetic variability over fissioning prokaryotes. In Chaper 11 she gives a good account of how plants and animals (veritable colonies of bacteria) came to colonize the land on earth. Humans enter the scene in chapter 12 via neotony. The last chapter, chapter 13, goes out on a variety of speculative limbs in conclusion.<br />While this book contains its share of factual errors, probably due to its age, its a well crafted popsci book that makes geotemporal biology accessible to the lay reader.	2002-08-03
US	43567428	R3E4P9LYXYL2ED	0062511246	512622524	The Pinnacle of Life: Consciousness and Self-Awareness in Humans and Animals	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An older, very interesting examination of consciousness.	Dr. Denton is a keen biological observer (a physiologist by trade) of the phenomenon of consciousness both human and animal. Two things about this book that make it a worthwhile purchase. First is the discussion of experiments conducted on secondary awareness, or self-awareness as performed on higher primates. Second is Denton's interview with one of the last great metaphysical dualists known in our time, Sir John Eccles. His interview with natural historian Miriam Rothschild is very insightful reading as well.<br />Denton seriously wants to know how mammalian neural machinery gives rise to what we call human consciousness and what its precursors are in our animal cousins. His work parallels that of American Gerald Edelman in some respects as the two scientists make hay of primary, sensual consciousness in contrast to secondary, cognitive awareness of primary sensual consciousness; otherwise known as self-awareness. Edelman goes into more detail but Denton fairly covers the gist of this distinction.<br />Denton is clearly a materialst in his scientific view of brains and how they give rise to consciousness. He clearly states so when he ventures \\"consciousness is indivisibly a function of the brain...without the function of the brain there is no mind, no consciousness...no soul...if a person is inseperablem from his brain it is senseless to ask which of them controls the other.\\" Obviously neither controls the other, they are one. Long live the death of mind/body dualism; if only our species could just make it over that one little hurdle. With Denton however, we have a monistic materialist at the helm; always an edifying prospect.<br />He runs through the standard litany of neuroanatomy and neurophysiological diagrams and definitions, attending well to the important RAS, reticular activating system in the brain stem which coordinates the lower, unconscious neural functions with the upper, corticallly conscious neural systems. This trails off into case studies of hemispheric differentiation and REM dream function; studies on the adaptive function of why we dream.<br />Denton covers his share of philosophy and animal correlates in this relaxing little book. The book ends merrily with interviews of naturalist Miriam Rothschild, Nobel Prize winning biologist Sir John Eccles, and Dr Donald Griffith. A fine, unpretentious essay on human and animal consciousness and its probable neural correlates, with some astounding interviews by some astounding people.	2002-04-29
US	43567428	R1N4TPIO62LO88	0520224868	616964814	The Mind's Past	Books	5	15	15	N	N	The Moral of this Story? Function Follows Form.	The first half of this book is a very good story about how mammalian brains function. Mercifully, it's not a drawn out document on neuroanatomy and neurophysiology, but rather a description how the emergent forms of neuroanatomy and neurophysiology function; about how the brain works. In this respect it's a fascinating and informative essay written for the lay reader by a very eminent neurologist. Gazzaniga's ease of translating the dessicated lexicon of neurology into a cozy fireside tale is certainly a testement to his literary skill over and above his medical acumen.<br />The second half of the book trails off into monotonous case studies and lacks the zing of the opening chapters. I rated this book a five however because it carries such a seminal point that in itself is of astounding significance. The human brain is no where near as plastic as it's given credit for being in the popular literature. We all know what a brain looks like. Just thinking of the word brings to mind a fixed image we've all seen in myriads of represnetations. They all sort of look the same, and guess what, they all sort of function the same way too: function follows form, or, as Sartre said, the essence is revealed in the appearance, not concealed by it. This is not to say that the brain functions how it looks, but an analogy illustrating that a brain's function is based on its form, or, its anatomy and physiology. You'd think this would be obvious but apparently for some reason it isn't. It's is an important point and Gazzaniga breaks it down very plainly and simply. The idea that neural function follows form is not immediately apparent to the lay person because it is a very politically unpopular view. Not a neurologically unpopular view but a politically unpopular view. Think about it. Contemporary social policy strongly prefers a view that the brain is molded by environment so it can sell policies to solve problems. The brain, long evolved over eons has its own agenda however. Any pediatric neurologist can tell you, tragically, how the brain tolerates very little variation in local structure and chemistry; kids born with slight variations in brain anatomy and chemistry are subject to acute difficulties. We're all really very much more similar in terms of how our brains function than we generally allow for. The brain is, to be blunt, a product of genetics, \\"those pesky little robots of nature\\" as Gazzaniga calls them. Obviously, as E. O. Wilson learned, the world is not yet ready for sociobiology. Gazzaniga ignores such political correctness and proceeds to discuss how the brain actually functions, not how some may wish it to. Gazzaniga would have us consider behavior based on neural function as an endocrinologist would consider diabetes relative to pancreatic function; by material cause and effect. Can you imagine the chaos such a view would cause in a cultural system based on the idea of free will from the Protestant aesthetic of John Winthrop? More, it seems, of people's behavior is based on their brain structure and chemistry than on environmental factors, an idea clearly counter to popular beliefs.<br />Gazzaniga also takes great pleasure in pointing out that we unconsciously lie a lot and concoct in voluminous quantities. This is how our brains are evolved to function, that is, to lie and create fantastic realities; and to great adaptive success one might add. This idea is not necessarily new for sophisticated idealists, although it is still not palatable to uprightly moral types because they tell the truth (really they do). We make the world we observe to a very large extent in our materially imaginative minds and Gazzaniga elucidates such a fantastic notion in a straight forward discussion that raises as many questions as it answers.<br />All in all a short, sweet, easy read on how brains function by a highly qualified observer.	2002-04-21
US	43567428	R18YRX4026A2OK	0140442278	708519048	Essays and Aphorisms (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Tons of Wisdom Economically Packaged.	I wasn't surprised to see all the 5 star ratings of this collection of essays by Schopenauer. It's the kind of book you regret is over once you're finished. It's a very accessible way to discover Schopenhauer, warts and all, without having to get bogged down in some of his more laborious, convoluted pieces. Scopenhauer is one of the world's great philosophers, but is probably under read due to the complexity and pedantic nature of his more extensive works. This casual collection of essays allows the reader to get to know a little about Schopenauer and his philosophy.<br />Are humans immortal in any way? Well, yes. Schopenauer, who unlike many of his western European counterparts, studied eastern as well as western philosophy, and it shows in the essay \\"On the Indestructability of our Essential Being by Death.\\" As Eastern philosophers have suggested for some time, matter is conserved rather than 'created or destroyed,' so of course we live on in terms of our physical selves, since our 'physical selves' is what we essentially are. Mentally however, once the atoms of our brains etc. dissolve, we are no more, and as Schopenhauer puts it, such a \\"question whether we exist [mentally] after death [has no] meaning,\\" like the idea that negative length has no meaning. In a line that couldn't have been said better by any modern, Schopenauer says that indeed \\"consciousness is extinguished by death...But cheer up! [Schopenhauer a pessimist?]...this consciousness is, in its origin and aim, merely an expedient for helping the animal to get what it needs. The state to which death restores us, on the other hand, is our original state, i.e. is the being's intrinsic state.\\" hmmmmm! I wonder if Freud attributed his own 'death wish' hypothesis to Schopenhauer. If he didn't, he should have. So here we have, no, death doesn't really happen physically, but to the extent it does mentally, its more of a return to an original state, and now worth worrying too much over in the long run.<br />Although the lion's share of Schopenhauer's philosophy is dedicated to demosntrating the necessary idealism of the human mind, he was a materialist of the most pragmatic sort, as evidenced in lines from \\"On Various Subjects,\\" where he speaks of the \\"false antithesis between mind and matter....[declaring that] all ostensible mind can be attributed to matter...[that mental] life is only a semblance, an illusion, and every creature is in reality a mere automaton, i.e. a play of mechanical, physical and chemical forces.\\" Of course we, and other animals, are not just agglomerations of chemicals as are rocks, for we also have a 'will' that directs our life actions. This is for Schopenhauer and emergent property of the physical parts of our bodies and not, as Bergson suggested, some distinct, mysterious substance.<br />On one more nonpessimistic note, Schopenhauer comments on Hesiod's interpretation of the myth of Pandora's box, saying \\"it is not all the evil but all the good things of the world which Pandora had in her box (as her name already indicates). When Epimetheus rashly opened it the good things flew out and away:  Hope alone was saved and still remains with us.\\" Schopenhauer a pessimist? If you can get past Schopenhauer's misogyny, this is a neat little book of wisdom for the philosophically minded and nonphilosopher alike.	2002-01-25
US	43567428	R3CYU4FWD1SMTO	0631205284	402801852	Humans Before Humanity	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great coverage of current &amp; fringe anthropology theories	Foley manages to say quite a bit in this 200 page book about anthropology, evolution, and a little about sociology too. He addresses not only the mainstream but some peripheral issues as well. All in all he covers a wide range of issues intelligently and resourcefully. The text is harmoniously augmented and complimented by great graphics and charts as well, rendering what I thought was an informative, entertaining, and credible exposition of an often dry and soporific subject matter.<br />The other reviewer who rates this book one star was obviously way over reacting to some comments by Foley in the opening pages of the book that address the scientifically outdated Boas/Mead SSSM (Standard Social Science Model). This book's strength should be measured by its anthropological relevancy, not the brief, although likely accurate assessment of a paradigm shift away from obsolete social theories toward the more current genetically based models, which is more of a fait accompli than a debate. Foley's pot shots at literary post modernist meddling in the hard sciences is certainly not unwarranted, nor is his de rigour lecture about the idiocy of the religious right verses biological evolution. These are two pretty common and valid criticisms.<br />Foley does join the status quo and endorse the out of Africa theory, but does give some air time to the likes of Van Daniken and the more credible but still fringe Elaine Morgan. He does this I think to contrast how much has been learned and set into a defined scientific context about the still swampy opaqueness that temporal extension tends to create in anthropology, especially in light of the more anthropocentric critics and cranks that this particular science naturally attracts.<br />In any event, he proceeds, workman like, to cover the known artifactual and statistical data regarding bipedalism, its concomitant anatomical morphology, classification schemas &amp; lineages, tool usage, radiations, African Eve, allometric neural evolution, etc. I particular enjoyed his discussion of allometric neural evolution and the encephalization quotient statistical model, and their correlation to intelligence relative to the putative survival characteristics of now extinct hominids.<br />Foley sums up with the cultural considerations of art, langauge, and agriculture. He poses all of his survey in an evolutionary context and never wavers from a most scientific consideration of all the material he analyzes. This book is a thorough, fast paced perusal of anthropology as it stands today (or in 1995 as it were) and helped me to syncretize what can be a daunting ocean of a most dense and often impenetrable science.	2001-08-15
US	43567428	R2WY3UFKXHA0T6	0716760177	807131211	Drugs and the Brain (Scientific American Library Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An objective, well informed look at a culturally taboo topic	Many of the Scientific American Library books are gems and this isosemantically titled book by Dr. Snyder is no exception. The books I have read from this series are uniformly short, sweet and to the point. Drugs, per se, are after all essentially what brain function is. Drugs are our personalities, our emotions (not to mention all other vertebrates, especially the class of mammals to which we belong). There is no better way to come to understand psychology, physiology, the cognitive sciences, and one could argue, metaphysics, than by examining the action of drugs and the brain; the primary distinction being intrinsic, naturally produced drugs as opposed to extrinsic, store (or street) bought ones.<br />Dr. Snyder runs through the litany of the common classes of drugs: the opiates and their natural countersubstance, the endorphins--the stimulants and their action of dopamine reuptake blockage--the hallucinogens and their concomitant serotonergic pathways--and some of the more popular psychopharmcologicals specific to schizophrenia, depression, and anxiety.<br />This book is a well written, historically informative, crash course in pharmacology for the lay reader, and remains a valuable reference long after its initial reading.	2001-08-15
US	43567428	RFGWGI1F1YCUV	0253212154	246367900	Basic Concepts (Studies in Continental Thought)	Books	3	3	18	N	N	Typical Heideggerian Ontological Mellifluousness	Heidegger is sort of outdated but this short book on the concept of being with reference to the ancient Greek philosopher/astronomer Anaximander is beautifully written and cannot not help but inspire one to think, which is good because it saves Heidegger from the ash heap of his dismal antics against his illustrious peers and mentors who he dumped in favor of the unctious nazis.<br />Heidegger's unfortunate career choices aside, this book is well structured into 3 sections: an introduction, part I., and part II.<br />The introduction is an exhortation to the reader to shake off the cobwebs of the Idols of the Theatre and open our minds to simplicity, to Greekness, which pertains to his concluding thesis in part II. of the book, an interpretation of one of Anaximander's fragments which comments on ontology's centerpiece, being itself. Heidegger wants us to abandon ourselves and look inward to a sort of Platonic remembrance of what is most elemental, essential, and primary. In this way he believes we, the reader, might become prepared to find at least a glimpse of the incipient grounds of being itself, as it relates to humanity.<br />Part I. is essentially an examination of the concept of being, and the outline of this section is further subdivided into 3 divisions.<br />Part I., division I.: Here Heidegger makes the interesting distinction betweens actual beings and the state of being common to all actual beings. Everything that exists is a being of some kind or another, yet possesses being per se no more or less than one from the other. Therefore beings and being, Heidegger proposes, are distinct in this regard. He also delineates an interesting trope regarding the verb 'is,' in breathtaking Clintonian fashion, by examining it for content and showing us there really is none on the face of the matter. All particular beings may make equal use of the copula 'is,' rendering it no more than a link, an empty universal, the abstractest of all abstractions, and, being a generality, there finds its most efficacious application independent of its object. In this way, with 'is' as a marker for being, the concept of being itself becomes more and more tenuous, almost evaporating.<br />Part I., divivion II.: Since Part I., division I., has indicated 'is' as the linguistic device used to denote being, as being common to all beings and devoid of content, Heidegger seems to feel here that the apparent vacuousness of this verb conceals a surplus. Perhaps a surplus representing the sum of all beings, in that their commonality, their groundedness together in existence, is being itself. To me it seems an ever shifting tautology as to whether Heidegger's ontology has a specific content or not, the thought occuring perhaps, as more of a vacillation between everything and nothing at one and the same time, rather than some parlor trick contradiction as might appear at first glance. Here Heidegger becomes the metaphysician. Material essence, solidity, belongs to particular beings, not however, to being itself.<br />Part I., division III.: In this section Heidegger reiterates the anthropocentric necessity of at least some degree of idealism in terms of being's relation to living beings and humans in particular. This revalation may not help in trying to understand an already strained paradox, but it certainly wouldn't do to overlook this obvious caveat.<br />Part II. is the conclusion of the book, and here we are introduced briefly to the ancient Greek Anaximander and his thetic fragment which states, \\"...the source from which things come into existence is also the sink to which they return when their existence is finished, necessarily...and each is made right with respect to all others as determined by the unfolding of time...\\" Heidegger examines this fragment to the effect that since all particular beings constantly come from the source common to which they somehow go in the end, the being that all beings share in this regard is an infinite, permanence. Ergo and again, beings are temporal, being is not.<br />It all seems much ado about little, but as the title says, 'Basic Concepts' is the focus of attention here, in particular 'being' and what it may mean in reference to itself.	2001-08-14
US	43567428	R3CJKGHFXJKOD7	0738203165	514323046	Why We Feel: The Science of Human Emotions (Helix Books)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Sugar isn't really sweet, ripe strawberries aren't red.	The 1st chapter in this book is entitled 'The Grand Illusion.' This is not some pessimistic assessment of the human condition, like we've all been fooling ourselves for naught all the long; this is merely the same caveat that the likes of the ancient Buhddists, the German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer (himself often accused of pessimism), and modern science writer Torr Norretranders have also elucidated: namely, we're sort of idealistic in how we process what we perceive to be the external (and internal) world. It's not so very egregious that we're like a bunch of asylum escapees, hallucinating some vastly inaccurate version of a reality we can never hope to know, it's just that neither are we ice cold observers of an objectively understandable interaction between our organismal selves and reality. It's a subtle distinction but one well worth knowing. Dr. Johnston does such a good job of delineating this concept that I had to rate this book the maximum of 5 stars. It is even more germane that he does so in the context of evolutionary psychology by stating that we, evolved primates that we are, did not nor did we need to evolve an ability to perceive and understand reality directly; that would have been nice and all, but what we did, and by virtue of it having happened, what we needed to accomplish was some means by which to survive and leave offspring in the field (remember, the way things are is no endorsement of any normative value for or against). Not only do we perceive and process reality in very creative ways, but we also color the heck out of it to squeeze the maximum utility out of it, hence, sugar (high quality nutrient) is sweet and good, and sharp teeth and gutteral growling sounds (the theme of not a few scary, supernatural movies) are bad, nay, downright evil! Thus, by the very acts of perceiving and cognizing, do we add and embellish hedonic tone to our experience. In general, this book is a good cummulative grouping of modern cognitive science research findings sans the fluff. It's too bad Daniel Dennett has already claimed the title &quot;Consciousness Explained&quot; and Steven Pinker &quot;How the Mind Works.&quot; Either title would have suited Dr. Johnston's work very well.	2001-08-13
US	43567428	R5L7N5J07UECU	1559637579	903368668	Nature Out of Place: Biological Invasions In The Global Age	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An Interesting Topic Written in an Interesting Style.	Global ecology books are generally interesting because they gather diffuse and disparate data about the dynamics of terrestrial life into a syncretic whole which allows us a glimpse of events occuring on a global scale. This book, released last year, is probably a fairly current snapshot of certain pressing global happenings regarding native and invasive species, and provides sufficient corroborating resources for the hard scientist (no troublesome endnote numbers in the text, but the supporting references do appear in the endnotes at the back of the book). The popular science reader is well attended to as well in this book by the lack of distracting endnote numbers in the text and the moderate but sufficient statistical data intercalated into the text.<br />The other interesting aspect of this book is the style in which it is written. The authors are a father and son team who write alternating chapters in two distinct styles that nonetheless blend well with one another and are rather self-enhancing rather than distracting. The father portion of this duo, Roy Van Driesche, teaches biological control at UMass, Amherst, and tackles the essay-style chapters on more general subject matter. The son, Jason Van Driesche, a graduate student of environmental studies at UWis, Madison, writes the 1st-person particular accounts of specific, ongoing invasive species problems. The alternating styles tend to break up what could have become a dessicated excercise in patience into a more palatable and enjoyable romp through the ecology of noxious invasive species and the current human responses to them.<br />The thesis of the book is, of course, how hundreds of years of unchecked waves of invasions by people and their concomitant pests, whether by invitation or as stowaways, is leading to a species homogenization, whereby the unscrupulous and hardy experts of survival: humans, rats, feral cats, weeds, fungi, etc. have and continue to decimate the more delicate and isolated species that simply cannot compete against the obviously hardier and more adaptable species. It's ecological whining at its finest, but the facts, as always, carry the day.<br />I particularly enjoyed son Jason's chapters, which are largely based on interviews with the locals who must deal with such problems. For example, leafy spurge on the great plains of the United States has been claiming untold acres of land generally used for grazing lands for ranchers (whose wards traditionally munch on, as it were, some invasive grass species of yore, you just can't win). Cattle shun leafy spurge, so the sustainable number of cattle per acre has diminished, distressing local cattle men and forcing them to take action or suffer the consequences (these are not your typical tree-huggers, but macho cowboys who probably smoke Camel non-filters). This setting is then revealed as a success case of biological control, father Roy's bailiwick, wherein asian beetles were imported to counterattack the otherwise indescriminately spreading green plague. The two styles really compliment one another in this regard. The discussions of island ecology regarding Hawai'i, Guam, New Zealand, and Santa Cruz island are also timely, interesting, and well covered. It's edifying to read in this book how public and private groups are beginning to take heed of these serious problems and actually legislate in favor of resistance to invasive species once and a while, but it's also frightening to realize such political action is occuring in mostly developed nations, and that vast, uncharted ecological and political events in undeveloped nations are generally not even under consideration. Apparently it's a jungle out there and the jungle is being remodeled at a blistering pace. All in all, a good read any bonified naturalist will admire.	2001-08-13
US	43567428	R1OGOTUQ29NQ7U	0875482015	668207009	On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason (Open Court Library of Philosophy)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Essential Reading.	This work is amazingly still ahead of its time despite being roughly 150 years old. It is essential for any student of science and/or philosophy. It requires focus and energy to read, and rather bogs down toward the end, but upon finishing it you'll most likely be enlightened on aspects of your cognitive and reasoning powers you weren't previously aware you even possessed. Here's why this book is important. The history of humanity's awakening from animal consciousness into the self-aware, abstract reasoning existence marks a movement from the the evolutionary advent of vertebrates to interstellar space probes. It's quite a little drama. The chroniclers of this story weren't really able to swing into action, due to technical difficulties, until a crotchety old cuss from Konigsberg ran off the barbarians of the mind. Kant is not refered to as the father of the modern scientific method for nothing. What Kant attributes to Hume in terms of motivation is also given to Kant on the road to Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer takes up the torch mightily and ushers us finally onto the platform of the empirical epistemology of idealism, which seems like a contradiction but isn't. It is astounding how many supposedly scientific types still do not grasp the necessary idealism ingrained in the neural cognitive machinery and see the human animal as machines of sensation. Whatever graduation requirements in American universities stand responsible for this travesty are dispelled by the concise and unwavering interpretation of Schopenhauer. Read it. Learn from it. The principle of sufficient reason is of course the necessity that all events derive from their concomitant causes, or, that things happen for a reason. Schopenhauer asigns his (arbitrary) classifictions in a workman like manner and demonstrates a means by which a priori knowledge of causation occurs. Other than elucidating the elemental role idealism plays in the human mind's functioning, the main thrust of this book is to put thefinal nail in Kant's refutation of Hume's denial of causation in an eloquent compliment to what Hume was asking future generations to do; and Schopenhauer rises to the task. Scopenhauer takes from Kant the halter of reality, that marriage of empiricism, cognition, and ratiocination, and leads the old mare firmly into the present. Too bad the present has not worked its way beyond a man dead for over a century. This need not be your fate however. If you have read Kant's 'Critique of Pure Reason' then this book is its logical extension and awaits your company. If not, then head to a cabin high in the Himalayas come winter, read the Critique, then read this book. It'll rock your world.	2001-06-21
US	43567428	R3JH64NYG3WU8T	0195121198	670884283	Sex and the Origins of Death	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Catchy title, serious book.	I can't say enough about UCLA immunologist Dr. William Clark. Despite the brain stem grabbing title of this book (come on, sex and death?) set on a background of struggling sperms, this is a concise, informative primer on cellular biology; a broad subject. Fortunately Clark focuses on some of the more interesting aspects allowing the reader some specific retention from a virtual sea of information. There are probably about a dozen absolutely astounding facts in the anals of science and physics that bring perspective to the wacky world of reality. Clark zeroes in on the biological milieu and sheds some light on what sex and death signify at the biochemical level. For example, dividing bacteria are potentially immortal. They don't necessarily die (although outright death can occur) but simply divide, thereby making more copies of theirselves. Sex, Clark's thesis implores, was natures alternative to bacteria but carried the price of mortality with it. If this isn't an original sin analogy I don't know what is. All the bacteria today are in a sense immortal descendents of the bacteriodal creatures that existed billions of years ago. We, as humans didn't just pop up out of the aether either, but it is our germ cells that are the the catalysts for allowing us to be here in a potentially immortal lineage from the very same ancestors of bacteria. Not our bodies mind you, they're just disposable vehicles for the immortal sperms and eggs ( the ones that get regenerated and fuse with their counterpart in any event). We die, but our sperms and eggs (a few at least), like bacteria, persist in an immortal-like, time spanning existence. Gametes, however, aren't the only eukaryotic cells that are potentially immortal (yes Martha, immortality isn't just a transcendental idea) so are cancer cells. Cancer cells are those disposable body cells that go haywire and lose the genetic program to commit suicide. They become potentially immortal and in some cases revert back to a bacteria like haploid state. You see, body cells, like germ cells, need not die; they do so because they are programmed to. Our genes contain suicide programs in them and that is why we die; of course, if they didn't we'd be just a big wads of cancer: we'd be more like bacteria than people-ergo, death really isn't such a bad thing after all, it does in fact serve a very important purpose. You'll learn about cellular suicide mechanisms like telomere degradation and the Hayflick limit. This little book truly is fun reading. Clark always throws in a sidebar to illustrate his thesis. In this book he takes an old guy who has an attack of acute cardiac failure due to ventricular fibrillation and eventually ends up plugged into life support. Clark's hypothetical victim becomes essentially brain dead but can still breath and exhibit facial expressions doe to continuing brain stem function. What is life and death? Clark uses this imaginary heart attack victim is an effective backdrop to show a person alive by many technical definitions but dead as a door nail for all practical purposes. All in all this book is short and you'll learn a ton and be stimulated to contemplate the concepts of life, death, and immortality at the level of the hard sciences, no gurus need apply.	2001-06-15
US	43567428	R2HPVY17DW0D8D	0140234942	416149265	Human Nature of Birds: A Scientific Discovery with Startling Implications	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Funny. Not funny haha funny, but eerily accurate funny.	I could almost hear the sniggers after reading this book and was not surpised to find the lead review here disclaiming this work as 'simplistic.' Actually, biology is simplistic. Mammals are evolved from a recent common ancestor and built around a pretty homogenious genetic bluprint. Biotech is taking advantage of this simple fact; a company in California has engineered a lab mouse possessing the entire human immune system: humans and mice are simply that closely related functionally and genetically. Birds are not mammals, but they are vertebrates. The brainiest vertebrates besides mammals in fact. Some of the more highly developed birds (parrots) indeed possess more neural and cognitve fire power than the least developed mammals (small shrews). This book is important in that it challenges some long held false dogmas of standard biology going back to the dark ages, namely that humans and animals are distinct. Reality check: humans ARE animals. By and large mammals are variations on an homologous theme. Birds, being vertebrates, are highly analogous with, if not homologous in that they are vertebrates with mammals, which are, you guessed it, vertebrates; mammals and birds, two very brainy vertebrates. What does it mean to be a brainy vertebrate? The dogma Dr. Barber imposes on here is that to anthropomorphize is a scientific sin. To anthropomorphize is to assume that one brainy vertebrate could possibly have similar cognitive and emotional experiences as another. Mammals have large brains and can cognize, birds have large brains and can cognize. This isn't an oversimplifying anthropomorphization, it's a fact, it's the scientific identification of a universal. Not only do mammals as a class possess practically identical adreno/hypothalamic hormones and neuropeptides (what defines soul? ask an endocrinologist), but so does the lowly vertebrate the hagfish. No one said it better than the cantankerous genious Schopenhauer, &quot;No one who himself has any intelligence will doubt its existence in the higher animals.&quot; After perusing the experimental evidence of the likes of Dr. Pepperberg's Alex, one can hardly doubt the higher intelligence of birds as rivals in neural processing capacity with mammals in the phylum chordata. Let's face it people, intelligence is a function of brains and birds have some significant gray matter relative to the animal kingdom at large. Biologically in fact we may anthropomorphize over the common terms of the subphylum vertebrata and that consciousness derives from brains. Facts long eschewed by anthropocentric metaphysicians, but long overdue in biology as a science. Kudos to Dr. Barber for his bold illumination of these simple biological facts. A helpful reference work for those pursuing cognitition as a hard science.	2001-06-14
US	43567428	R24ZFV306T9XAM	0195115686	471355823	At War Within: The Double-Edged Sword of Immunity	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Clark is a gem.	Most neurosurgeons and astrophysicists are busy constructing the future. Some of these overacheivers suffer from a mild mental disorder called hypergraphia and compulsively write stuff down. Fortunately Dr. William Clark suffers from hypergraphia and we benefit hugely because we can look into his mind by reading his books, and what a view it is. This book is essentially about mammalian immunology. Immunology is an odd subject to get because its quite dynamic, meaning its operation is determined by a wide array of parts. Clark's book is short, sweet and to the point. He covers the basics and proceeds with case studies that bring the lay reader close to his profession without having to spend years in postdoc research doing so. His opening account of the rancerous competition between France's Louis Pasteur and Germany's Robert Koch is fantastic reading for the bonified dork. Most interestingly, Clark primes us with some genetic engineering technique in his marvelous description of SCID, severe combined immune deficiency, and its concomitant 'magic bullet' cure based on the gene therapy associated with a monogenetic disorder; interesting stuff here. His coverage of autoimmune disorders alone makes this brief, action packed essay worth the price. Clark makes the mind numbing world of immunology a little bit friendlier here.	2001-06-14
US	43567428	R544P36FRDE9Q	0262560569	815181035	Science of the Mind: 2nd Edition	Books	5	32	32	N	N	An excellent consciousness/cognition primer.	I call this a primer because Flanagan structures this work on a chronology from Descartes to E. O. Wilson's sociobiology. This is a fairly comprehensive work. It is a deep, well rounded tome which covers, with a minimal amount of ceremony, 350 years of research into the human mind. A more direct approach to current cognitive studies might be through Edelman, Damasio, et al, but I thoroughly enjoyed Flanagan's intelligent retracements of the likes of James, Freud, Skinner, and Piaget, crossfading into the threshold of the modern cognitive sciences. Flanagan's thesis, antithesis, and synthesis style of evaluating and critiquing his subjects is broadly informative. His terse, pedantic tone lent the air of the university lecture hall to this historical and at the same time contemporary work of philosophy and science. This may seem an unflattering assessment in some contexts, but this is not a literary work; it is a dry, serious attempt on the still somewhat (this book was 1st published in 1984, 17 years ago) mysterious phenomenon of consciousness. It may be somewhat dated today but still offers a credible repertoire of neural case histories and cognitive facts, as well as an excellent historical perusal of some of the best consciousness studies history has to offer. It's a challenging read, but the kind that makes you feel rewarded after having done so.	2001-06-14
US	43567428	RN3832VMN26PB	0521637554	73365929	Evolving the Mind: On the Nature of Matter and the Origin of Consciousness	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Cairns-Smith gets jiggy.	I must say I was let down with this book. Cairns-Smith is very cool when it comes to prebiotic chemistry. His clay hypothesis is fascinating and he is generous enough to share it with we unwashed masses. But this book, besides its general science appeal (I did give it 3 stars after all) falls flat. He starts out making valid references to cellular mechanisms. His description of bacterial flagellar mechanics is ripping. However, after he struts his prowess in the opening exposition of biochemistry, he heads straight away into nonsenical, outdated, metaphysics. This is not that old of a book (1996). Toward the end, where he babbles on about Schrodinger's equation and the quantum correlates of consciousness, one gets the feeling Cairns-Smith is making a big production, being coy about materialistic cause and effect neurology, because he sincely wants very badly for there to be some spooky chi substance hidden away deep in the cell's machinery that causes brains to be conscious. Schrodinger certainly made a sensible bridge between quantum mechanics and cellular biology in his 1944 book \\"What is Life?\\" Cairns-Smith doesn't even come close. In the end he really adds nothing, just taking us on a joy ride around the park. In this sense, this book (it's no synoptic pamphlet) is a bit of a waste of one's time because it leads to a blind ally. Having said all this I still enjoyed reading it to a degree. Cairns-Smith covers a wide array of theory, he just doesn't do a particularly good job of weaving it into a fabric that keeps us warm on those chill intellectual nights. For general science purposes this is a pretty decent read. The serious cognition hound will find better grazing in other pastures however.	2001-06-14
US	43567428	R39GYMEZJNWEYO	0060958332	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Pinker delivers a (Chomsky's) point.	I rate this book the maximum because it contains a seminal point. One that, once assimilated, enriches a person's understanding of reality. Language (singular) in general, not specific languages (plural), is an innate, genetically induced behavior in our species. Pinker's predecessor Noam Chomsky hit upon this notion and Pinker has taken up the torch in this book describing specifically what Chomsky originally formulated. Languages (plural), such as Mandarin Chinese and Castillian Spanish are not innate but arbitray. On the other hand the language ability (singular) is not arbitrary but a highly innate neural mode of cognizing and communicating which is generated by Wernicke's, Broca's, and other neuronal groups in the brain. In short, language is an innate genetic function of our hominid bodies, much as flying is to sea gulls. It's an instinct. Pinker proves  this over and over in this book by citing experimental data, negative control pathology examples, and other analogies in the real world (such as the language behavior of the deaf). Knowing that language is a genetically induced, innate instinct helps one to cut through a lot of other fluff about consciousness, language, the animal kingdom, etc., which allows for more rapid passage from the premises of animal behavior to conclusions about their causes and effects.<br />This book is also not a bad science read in general, If you can get past the stuffiness  of the grammarian (a few pots of coffee won't hurt) some excellent, very relevent points are made along the way. Beside the primary and most valuable thesis of this book, that language (singular....not languages, plural) is a genetic event in the same vein as eye color, Pinker makes the sagacious observations that BEV (black english vernacular) is as bonified a language as continental French or Castillian Spanish; a useful tool to have when debating racists. We also soon find, thanks to Pinker's excellent linguistic knowledge base, that there is no 'proper usage' in the cultural employment of language. Like many cultural phenomena, morals, fashion, etc., language is defined by statistical (popular) usage. It's funny and fitting to see Pinker's dishing of language mavens who lament the degradation of the current King's language. Why if this were the case, we'd still be speaking colonial era English. While language (singular) may be a genetically coded biological phenomenon in our species, individual languages (plural) are diverse, dynamic, evolving, and everything but static.<br />The laying out of the rules of grammer in this book can get quite tedious, but the book's most redeeming feature is that it drives home the very pertinent biological axiom about human behavior in terms of our linguistic activity, with some nice sidebars on insider linguistics jargon. It's this type of science writing that enriches the lay reader and makes being a bibliophile a healthy addiction.	2001-06-14
US	43567428	R2DIN0PESLQ88U	0465007643	217340114	Bright Air, Brilliant Fire: On The Matter Of The Mind	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Light Ages	Wow. Obviously we've emerged from the dark ages into the light and....wait, Plato already made this analogy. Anyway, its always edifying to see people, anyone, confirm in print what we all already know but are afraid, for political reasons I guess, to utter. It's a material world. Edelman takes off on this theme and proceeds to deliver the underlying neural blueprints for ego, soul, cognition, and a host of other mystical magical metaphysics, minus the meta. Edelman makes some gratuitous forays into philosophy in this book, but by and large sticks to the point and discusses his work on axonal feedback/forward pathways and TNGS; the theory of neuronal group selection, an evolutionary take on neurobiology. It's always nice, in my view, when researchers deign to wtite these pop-sci books to share with us plebes what we could never encounter in our own pedestrian lives. I can't really evaluate if this is a &quot;good&quot; piece of literature, but anyone remotely interested in who and what they and the people they know are simply must devour evey morsel of this neurophysiology primer.	2001-06-07
US	43567428	RZ2PEMH02LLYL	067976867X	470087128	Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Bull's Eye	Wilson really delivers on what the title of this book promises. The 1st 25 to 30% of the book was boring and I thought, \\"oh no, typical touchy feely old man Wilson moaning about global warming etc,\\" but then things really began to get interesting. Like the title suggests, a synthesis of human epistemology is possible, and Wilson actually pulls it off. Want to see what some of the scientific underpinnings of art and religion are? Wilson gives it the old college try. Personally, I'm tired of hearing how science and religion are seperated by a 40 foot lead and concrete wall. Lets hear some cause and effect relations of how the two give rise to each other. Wilson approaches this synthesis by adducing the fairly modern disciplines of cognitive neuroscience and psychology, and of course, behavioral genetics. His insistence on epigenetic rules, which is his term for the marraige of nature and nurture, is thematic to this work and each concept he introduces compliments the ones that follow it under the aegis of biology, its epigenetic rules, cognitive neuroscience, and cognitive psychology. It is by sticking with these theses in discussing his various subjects in a context that is material, dynamic and relevant to all aspects of biological life that make this book significant: in short, conscilience. It's nice to hear a scientist actually acknowledge the existence of human psychology in biological terms and not as if it were some seperate event. Wislon staunchly refuses to engage in the sophomoric fallacy of dualism. In the same vein, to hear someone come right out and suggest that the social sciences should try and be a bit more empirical and scientific in how they conduct their affairs is refreshing to. Wilson is the sociobiologist down to the bitter end. You'd think more intellects would pursue these kinds of constructive arguments, but I suppose the apron strings of grant money sort of quells the possibility of people actually thinking in print. Wilson must have alreadyreceived his grant money. That he discusses the stark axiom that politicians and economists are not the most practical creatures for making ecological decisions is edifying to see in print too. In general, Wilson's framing of ethics in scientific terms comes off fairly well; not an easy task to accomplish. On the other side of the coin, Wilson does close the book with typical PC maoning about evil corporate robber barons. He also forgets he's a scientist for a moment by urging us to regulate future biotech activities to insure the human genome doesn't get yanked around too much. Ahem! is any genome or ecology static? Not that I've heard of. To try and accomplish that would be an abomination of nature, if ever such a thing existed. This suggestion smacked of anthropocentric divinity to me. Overall however, its a good pop-sci book presented in the context of the modern scientific disciplines. The book is a sensible, well thought out analysis of a complex subject matter well excecuted by a sensible, well read scientist.	2001-06-07
US	43567428	R1ML955XZ09ECJ	0140230122	590864729	The User Illusion: Cutting Consciousness Down to Size (Penguin Press Science)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Unique, European, Composite View of Human Consciousness	I agree with the one reviewer who says this is one of the best explanatory  efforts regarding consciousness. I've perused quite a few offerings on this  topic and Norretranders' interpretation comes pretty close to hitting home.  One other reviewer suggests all Norretranders has done is regurgitate the  work of others and repackage it. Ahem! that's about what a good science  writer is supposed to do. The author isn't a neurobiological researcher,  he's a science writer. Unlike a full blown scientist, Norretranders can  take literary liberties to try and describe what may not in fact lend  itself easily to description. He has no theory to sell, just the thesis  that what we generally perceive as 'self' isn't quite what we envision it  to be. It is true that this is a well trodden path, as seen in the thought  of Kant, James, Lewis Thomas, Edelman, and Dennett, to name a few; it's  just that Norretranders does a more artful job of describing a phenomenon  that is undoubtedly understood better by others. He syncretizes the extant  body of knowledge more delicately than his epistemological superiors in  this subject; or perhaps it's his Scandanavian mode of expression. There's  something about this book that made the Edelmans, Damasios, etc., of the  bio-cognitive milieu more comprehendable. Consciousness is a unitary  experience and at the same time a highly complex, composite event. Like  many contradictions it does not lend itself readily to the expositor's  voice. Norretranders does the topic honorable justice in my opinion.	2000-08-19
US	43567428	R2WKZW5BGN9BHC	0312450109	301591247	Immanuel Kant's Critique of Pure Reason	Books	5	11	18	N	N	The Pinnacle. A Do or Die for any Philosopher .	You can evidently tell from the title of my review that I liked the book. The Critique of Pure reason is a pretty important work screaming to be read by any curious person. The reason I like the book is because it is one of, if not the 1st book, to address the concept of human cognition. In this context, Kant discusses the possible, the necessary, time, and a few other very significant details of our human, corporeal existence. Yes the book is long and tedious but shows Kant's genius in developing a framework of human cognition (previously called 'the understanding' by some classical writers). If Kant's 'Critique of Pure Reason' doesn't begin to demonstrate, objectively, how the clever cognitve apparatus known as the brain weaves its fantastical web, then you were reading it upside down.<br />Among the many ideas put forward in this opus what stood out as the main thesis to me was the distinction between a real idea and a transcendental one; hence Kant's transcendental idealism. Humans have ideas of course, we have experiences, this is how we live in this world, by our ideas and experiences. Other thinkers, like Locke, would have our ideas be the results of our experiences. Not quite sayeth Kant. Some ideas are completely exclusive of experience. These are the tranascendental ideas, ideas that transcend experience. They're really not worth much, they might be, you can't (no pun intended) tell. Although transcendental ideas can arise independently of experience, they can only be verified by experience. Such an idea, the distinction between ideas proper and transcendental ones is the key idea here. The ultimate verification of either type of idea by some experience is why Kant is known as the father of the scientific method. Verifying ideas by experience is another term for what we now call experimentation. Not that Kant invented experimentation, but that he codified it (well really others did too, like Francis Bacon, but Kant gets the laurel).<br />Ideas help us to interpret the world, transcendental ones are apt to lead us off on paths we don't really want to go down, and for good reason. Cognitively, we might deduce far into the future and conclude that events meet somehwere up there on the horizon. Or we could reverse this process, looking back into the past, like we do with the 'big bang' concept. From where we are in the present, looking far into the future or far into the past, what we appear to see may look like a unity. Well maybe and maybe not. The meeting of events way off up or back there are simply impossible to confirm by experience. In such a case we are left to rely on circumstantial evidence, as with the big bang. For example, there is no overwhelming evidence that what astronomers call the universe actually represents the universe as it is. There are bits of evidence, like ubiquitous microwave background radiation and predominant red-shifting, but the idea of what the universe is in actuality is a transcendental idea; there is simply no empirical way to confirm the existence of such a thing as the universe. Within such cognitive phenomena Kant is our sage.<br />What is really true or false in this world? If you still think the idea of objective reality is feasible then this treatise by the father of the scientific method must not be missed. Don't be fooled by the ethical implorings of Kant's 'The Critique of Practical Reason.' That's an entirely different book. 'The Critique of Pure Reason' is an atheist's dream. After Kant thoroughly exposes the idea of the absolute being as transcendental pish-posh, he does attempt to backpedal some by imploring the faithful to remain vigilant, but too late; he has already pounded the stake into the withering heart of a deity who Nietzsche [my paraphrase] would later lament the passing of. One can never hope to aspire to even a modicum of philosophical being, indeed it's hard to imagine even beginning to think critically, til they've read this work. Buy it, suffer through it(then read Schopenhauer), and maybe, just maybe, you'll have a chance.	2000-08-19
US	43567428	R1TPJSHWEDUZD4	0671577441	16859864	MOLECULES OF EMOTION  CASSETTE: Why You Feel The Way You Feel	Books	4	7	12	N	N	The Perfect Blend of Touchy Feely and Hard Science	This is not a safe book. The author takes unreasonable liberties from the subjective and illicitly marries them with the objective. Sounds fun doesn't it? it is. The nice thing about reading this book is watching Pert slither off into the deep end of thought and personal speculation and then watching her crawl up on the opposite bank of empirical science and lick herself dry again. Her forays into absolute metaphysics somehow end up segueing respectably back into test tube science and you just end up forgiving her; she redeems herself over and over. In essence, Pert manages to synthesize the thrill of scientific discovery with the placebo effect pharmacology of mediums and gurus, which is biochemically empirical in itself. For anyone interested in biochemistry this book is very elucidating. Also, if you liked James Watson's 'Double Helix' then you'll appreciate Pert's feminist twist to the wacky world of scientific one-up-manship. Personally, I have not looked at drugs the same since reading this book. Of all the philosophical renditions of the concept of self, this book helped to put into a clear context how much of what we perceive as self is drug induced; not street drugs or pharmaceuticals, but the biochemicals made right in our own bodies. An entertaining book of scientific discovery, psychopharmacology, as well as a serious discussion of the placebo effect.	2000-08-19
US	43567428	R1RGSL5S1IOF00	0520224906	77407604	The Art of Living: Socratic Reflections from Plato to Foucault (Sather Classical Lectures)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	A Very Fulfilling Book, if............	To paraphrase Nehamas' Montaigne quote on page 187 of this book, there really are no definitive books on anything; there is always something more to be said about a given subject. In this context, especially if you're interested in the figure of Socrates, this book is a fulfilling read. However, this is said presupposing one has previously read Thomas Mann's 'Magic Mountain,' a lengthy novel in itself, as well as some Montaigne, Nietzsche, and Foucault, since Nehamas predicates his thoughts about Socrates on much these writer's extant works. If not, then I suppose the reading of 'The Art of Living' could get rather meaningless outside of the context of the afore mentioned authors. As it happened, I had read Mann's 'Magic Mountain,' along with quite a bit of Montaigne and Neitzsche, and fortunately Kierkegaard's 'The Concept of Irony,' which Nehamas refers to as well, prior to taking 'The Art of Living' off the shelf. I had previously only read two of Foucault's books, so a lot of what Nehamas had to say in the last chapter I just had to take on his word. Having said this, that one needs to be well read in the previously mentioned authors in order to get the most out of this book (not to mention Plato's work alone), it's a worthwhile addition to the body of Socratic analysis in terms of what is germane to philosophy at large and how it applies to those of us alive today. Also, if you're into the group of authors previously mentioned, I think Nehamas contributes wonderfully to their memory as well. Not having read much Foucault, I rather enjoyed the last chapter by getting to know more about this philosopher. As for Nehamas' thesis, of which another reviewer alluded to that there wasn't one, I'd say that to miss it is akin to missing a drive-in theater screen with a laser guided missle. The thesis is: 'what is philosophy and how can it be applied to everyday, flesh and blood life?' This is an existential view which I've often wondered about myself. How can philosophybe applied to real time living from its theoretical position? Although a thesis as such is clear, I don't think Nehamas tries to show specifically how such a thing is accomplished; which is the good thing about this book: it doesn't try to proselytize. It lays out a series of examples of this thesis and invites the reader to come to their own conclusions. The book also creates a decent bridge from ancient to modern philosophy. It's a serious book and a good book, but not worth the time I think if you lack the background to appreciate it; better to spend your money on some Plato, Montaigne, or Neitzsche than jump into these waters without a life raft.	2000-08-17
