US	43571421	RZNHYP859KDVT	1569715262	945294758	Akira, Vol. 4	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The plot thickens, so to speak ...	Already the fourth of a total of six volumes that collect the complete Akira tale. It's vital to read the previous volumes though because this tale is ONE big story and not divided into self-contained arcs. Therefore it's good to know that after two volumes that were decreasing in the number of pages here is the biggest volume yet.<br />After last issues events, where Akira's powers were triggered, Tetsuo has now set things to his will. The ruins of what was half of Neo-Tokyo have been renamed `Great Tokyo Empire' with Akira as emperor and Tetsuo his right hand. They (mainly Tetsuo really) rule strictly and totalitarian, not allowing outside influences. The population of the Great Tokyo Empire sees a new messiah in Akira though and happily accepts all that. The other side of Neo-Tokyo, led by Lady Miyako who takes in the sick and the needy to help them, is opposed to all this. They try to live peaceful and rebuild what they had while Tetsuo, who has serious health-problems, is having his people trying to conquer her part of Neo-Tokyo as well.  <br />In this part of the story the prior life of Akira, before he got buried to keep safe, is revealed a little. The grander scheme in the uncovering of project Akira is becoming clearer as well. Off course that doesn't mean there aren't a lot of action-for-the-purpose-of-action pages in here as well. The art, black-and-white except for the first few pages, is the same as it has been all along. Instead of using a lot of text-panels the story is told through it for a big part. Off course that makes for a very speedy read but with the number of pages up to score (again) that's not too much of a problem. Quality reading ...	2002-01-15
US	43571421	R3FTZZRGHQZ4FE	1582401748	763933901	Torso	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast-paced chasing of a killer on the loose	This collection contains the complete Torso story, one of the earlier works of now well-known comic-book author Bendis. A story about the hunt for a serial killer whose trademark it was to leave his victims behind with their head, hands and feet cut of, based on real events.<br />Eliot Ness, the man who has recently helped put Al Capone behind bars, has only just been installed as Clevelands new `safety-director' when two corpses are discovered in a local field. Both corpses are heavily cut up, only the torsos are left behind. This comes as an extra job in Ness' agenda in which he had already decided to clean up this, for now, corrupt city. When more and more corpses quickly turn up though, it becomes priority. From there on it becomes an interesting story, working towards a not-so-average conclusion.<br />The link to Alan Moore's `From Hell' is easily made, but apart from the same basic idea (report of a serial-murderers past spree) the two books are very different. Where `From Hell' is all about information, backgrounds and completeness this book focuses purely on the chase, the point of view of the investigators (Bendis gift for dialogue is important in this). Therefore it should be approached purely as a tale, not as a source of information on the events. And despite of the big amount of pages it's very fast-paced, not a long-read. The black-and-white art is pretty simple and shouldn't be the reason to buy this book. Simple cartoony (maybe TOO cartoony for this type of story) characters with backgrounds that are sometimes almost non-existent and sometimes pictures from the real scenes, crowds and locations of the particular murder-spree. All in all not Bendis best-scripted book but certainly enjoyable and worth the read, despite of the high cover-price.	2001-12-28
US	43571421	R113O4YFVZCOXE	1569248346	34250932	The Cowboy Wally Show	Books	4	1	3	N	N	&quot;Stupid ? I don't know the meaning of the word !&quot;	Another one of Kyle Bakers self-contained Graphic Novels, aiming for fans of sarcastic/ironic humor of which there is plenty. Baker likes to secretly criticize and mock everyday society by filling his stories with fictional characters and than make them act (exaggerated, but still) like real persons we see everyday. This is another good example of it.  <br />This is the fictional life-story, brought as a documentary with many flashbacks, of Cowboy Wally. All the way from when his B-career started up till today. Cowboy Wally is a guy who's big, loud and stupid and who got into show-business (and moves around in it) by `questionable methods' to say the least. That doesn't stop him from bragging about his achievements though (he IS his biggest fan), meanwhile emphasizing \\"how normal he maintained to be for a star of his caliber'. The reader gets to witness him making really really really cheap movies, him exploiting people who trust him and even ruining Shakespeare's `Hamlet'.<br />A pretty funny book (especially the last part where it all comes together and the past catches up on Wally) about a fictional TV-character, which satirically mocks real-life TV-personalities. Like in all Baker's books the humor is often very subtle though. The art is pure black-and-white (without tones of gray like in the same author's `Why I Hate Saturn'). It's nicely detailed and doesn't suffer from the lack of color though. It's comparable to Terry Moore's art in `Strangers in Paradise'.<BR>Although it's pretty good overall I feel it could have been better with lesser segments in it, but paying more attention to the segments which remained. It looks a little cramped now, as if Baker didn't have as much pages as he really wanted to tell the tale. Nonetheless, for fans of satirical/sarcastic humor this is a good choice AFTER you've read `Why I Hate Saturn', his better book.	2001-12-21
US	43571421	R1LB4KV9RQNVYW	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of Alan Moore's most impressive tales	In here all ten issues of the maxi-series \\"From Hell\\", originally published by various independent companies, are collected into one big complete volume. It's Alan Moore's well researched theory of how the `Jack the Ripper' murders might (and it is even said \\"could well be\\") have taken place back in 1888. It's not a who-did-it detective type of book though. Although a name is uttered Moore emphases on the how &amp; why the murders took place, over the `who did it ?'. The suspect he points out though IS the person who's most suspected of doing the killings, or at least having to do with it all.<br />The first 40 or so pages demand a degree of attention for the reader to keep up to score, mainly through the time-jumps in which Moore introduces the main characters. He had to do this in big lapses to avoid this book from becoming twice as big as it already is. You'll get well acquainted with them nonetheless. After having gone through those Moore starts showing off royally how well he studied the facts of the events, history and the architecture ( + how it all relates) of the time. All the while not forgetting to tell an intriguing and well-paced story. The reasons behind the murders get well-explained and are made to seem very logically ... and just when you start thinking you're heading to a predictable end there's a plot-twist or two. Moore also displays how the general public opinion of that age is and how it reacts on all that happened. It will also clarify how the nickname \\"Jack the Ripper\\" got invented.<br />On first sight the book seems overly big and complicated and I can imagine not everyone is willing to dig through this text-heavy graphic-novel, which has lots of graphic violence AND detailed graphic sex to boot But those who do will mostly find it's more than worth it. It left me with a most satisfied feeling. DO also read the annotations to see what is based on facts and what on theory, it WILL add to your experience. Artist Campbell illustrated it in black/white and in a style well suited to portray the Victorian Age, in which it all takes place. It may not appeal to everybody who picks up this book, but once given some time it grows on you. Off course it's subjective but I think this really is one of Moore's best works so far in an already impressive career.	2001-12-06
US	43571421	R19A2919WVY2OI	9991887830	596874055	Batman the Cult	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the toppers in Batman comics	This is one of the few Batman tales that deserve to be mentioned with &quot;The Killing Joke&quot; and &quot;Return of the Dark Knight&quot;. It may even top those other two. A story in which the theme &quot;Why doesn't Batman just finish his enemies ?&quot; is well handled by attaching it close to reality and detailed storytelling. It's solid as can be, everything that happens is backed up by logical reasoning.  <br />A lot of people have been disappearing off the Gotham streets lately when Batman decides to investigate. He winds up in some place hidden in the sewers. There he is told the legend of an ancient  wronged shaman, one that amazingly enough appears to be in front of him at that moment. The Bat learns what the man and his followers are about and he is mildly disgusted, but after hearing more and more arguments he's slowly converted. While deacon Blackfire's group grows bigger and bigger, Gotham becomes a place of chaos. And the police are puzzled by the info they dig up on the deacon.<br />This is more than your ordinary 'Good guy vs. Bad guy' story in which Batman has to fight an idea, rather than a man. An idea most of Gotham gets to be convinced of. Ironically, Jason Todd a.k.a. the most unpopular Robin plays an important role in one of the best Batman stories there is. One in which Batman is broken so much worse than in 'Knigthfall'. The art is quite detailed (like Gibbons in &quot;Give me Liberty&quot;) but fluid, while the follow-up of panels reminds of Dark Knight Returns. It's very cinematic and keeps you interested. If you're a fan of Batman-books or interested in `religious hype &amp; suggestion' this is for you. It amazes me this book hasn't gotten more credit.	2001-11-29
US	43571421	R3CERE4938TYDB	1563892022	229462022	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Fear and Loathing	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Best Ennis Hellblazer collection	John Constantine, the character this series is about, is a man who looks like any other man. Despite of his overconfidence, constant smoking and the trenchcoat he seems to be joined at the hip with. But Constantine practices magic and had words with about every demon in hell. He's an expert and he's cunning to boot, although alcohol seems to be more of his interest. This book collects #62-67 of the series, which isn't a standard \\"good vs. bad\\" title but deals with characters who all are somewhere in the middle. Along the way their private lives are not ignored neither.<br />The cover-story, which runs through 4 of the 6 issues, is about `The Snob', formerly known as the archangel Gabriel. While John is very much in love with Kit, Gabriel is doubting his faith and the faith people have in him. His associates aren't happy with his behavior because of it and since it all leads back to something John once said, they're decided to make his life hell. Apart from that there are also stories about John trying to talk his niece out of getting into magic and about John's fortieth birthday (in the very first Vertigo Hellblazer issue).<br />Better than the earlier Ennis Hellblazer collection (\\"Dangerous Habits\\"), which wasn't bad either. The strength lies, next to interesting storytelling, in the fact that the story-arcs aren't out of the blue. They seem logical phases in Constantine's life and blend in with his everyday reality. Good and fluent Steve Dillon art in all the issues. Although it's before he realized his art doesn't need sketchy lines in it (as shown in `Preacher'), it's close to what it is today. One of the best Hellblazer collections so far. Prior knowledge of the title is a pro, not a must.	2001-11-21
US	43571421	R13K3DI2B631PI	1563891506	17173759	John Constantine, Hellblazer: Dangerous Habits	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good but not Ennis' best collection of the series	John Constantine, the main character here, is psychically a normal human being. His trench-coat, laid back attitude and cigarette in the corner of his mouth are all part of his image. John isn't your average guy though. He is a magician, specialized in demons and Hell. He's more interested in booze though. This book collects #41-46 of 'his' series, the first 6 issues of the Garth Ennis run (complete story-arc). A series which isn't about standard winner-takes-it-all tales but shows a struggling character who wins some and looses some, not always using the most respected options. <br />Here, John has just heard the news that he is suffering from terminal lung-cancer. He doesn't know what to do so he goes out to try and find something or someone who might be able to help him, thereby caring little what effects his actions have along the way. On his desperate journey he visits about every magician and representative from Heaven and Hell he can think of. Meanwhile he's getting more sick every minute and time is running out fast.<br />Although the typical Ennis humor (like in Preacher) hasn't set in here yet, he IS already showcasing that he can write well. It's not as good as in the next trade collecting his issues (\\"Fear &amp; Loathing\\") but that's not saying this one isn't worth your time. Story-wise it all fits and while the story may not be the best he's ever written, it's better than many things in comparable genres out there. The art is done by various artists, mostly by Will Simpson. Although it can't compete with Steve Dillon's drawings (the artist in the other Ennis Hellblazer trades and Preacher), it is clear, moody, maybe over-sketchy sometimes but fitting for the title. A nice book with no prior Hellblazer-knowledge necessarily required.	2001-11-18
US	43571421	R9M0T0186PJ3N	1560971541	522855096	Buddy the Dreamer (Hate)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Funny easy-read	`Hate' is a series which aims for ironic and sarcastic humor. It takes everyday situations and puts in exaggerated stereotype versions of persons who normally walk those scenes (think `easy girls', the rock-fan, the queer, the environmentalist etc.) to make the scene as ridiculous as can be. This collection collects  #6-10, a complete story-arc.<br />Buddy is a guy who gets in situations which are considered normal-life events. Nothing any other person couldn't get into if he went looking for it. The problem is that Buddy is sarcastic to the bone and the people who surround him are all a little cards short from a deck. And Buddy acts on impulse. His comments get him into trouble with his neurotic girlfriend and relatives more than once ... and it's a good thing his fellow-characters can't see what he thinks to boot. In this collection he is asked to come manage a rock-band. The members are talentless nitwits but that doesn't stop them from thinking the world of themselves. After thinking about it Buddy decides to go for it and milk them out like only he could.<br />A talk-comic which doesn't try to tell a message anywhere but goes for straight-out hilarious fun. Despite of that it does have more than one \\"been there\\" situations in it. Think of it as `Box Office Poison' mixed with the sarcastic comments of 'Cerebus'. The black-and-white art is heavily cartoonish and makes for easy reading. It's not what one should decide to buy or neglect it for, but it's acceptable. If sarcasm (up to downright cynicism) is the type of humor you're into, this can definitely be a good choice.	2001-11-14
US	43571421	R1FX069FJ4VZPZ	1563896656	702953874	1: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting approach	In this book, that collects the complete 6-part miniseries, Alan Moore has attempted to blend comic-books with what is considered literature. It worked well and makes for an interesting read.<br />Staged in 1898, a certain `Cameron Bond' (in order of one code-named \\"M\\") is forming himself a team consisting of, to us, well-known literary characters. He first approaches Wilhelmina Murray to be in his team and asks her to go collect the next possible team-member, so together THEY can look for the next ... and so on. Naturally each time they go look for a new member the team has grown one person stronger. The gathering is not without problems though which makes each mini-quest (which mostly stays true to the literature in which the characters originally appeared) an interesting sub-story. Once the team is formed, consisting of Captain Nemo and Allan Quatermain among others, they're given an important task ... for `the good of the entire world'. <br />An interesting and entertaining story, well worth the while. What makes this book extra fun though, is that all through the story there are little hints to existing books in the artwork. That's also why it's even more enjoyable if you're well-read in \\"normal\\" literature (a pro, not a must). You'll get little (non-vital) things that are not explained anywhere in the book. For example, you'll know why Mina insists on wearing her scarf.. Next to it being nowhere predictable that little extra gives it an edge over most `respectable' Graphic Novels around. <BR>The art-style lies somewhere in between Eddy Campbell's (From Hell), Jason Lutes' (Berlin) and Tim Sale's (The Long Halloween). It's detailed, atmospheric and very well-chosen considering the events are taking place more than a century ago. All in all a high-quality book.	2001-11-13
US	43571421	R25IKDOP2SP2KU	0930289722	311099156	Why I Hate Saturn	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Clever and witty	This is a very impressive `talk-comic' in the style of `Strangers in Paradise' and \\"Box Office Poison', which I think is even better than the aforementioned titles. It's (mostly) about everyday life and all the views a society-critical person has on it, brought with subtle humor.  <br />Main-character Anne is a columnist for some obscure magazine. While she makes her way through life she gets into all kinds of Seinfeld-esque situations, meaning she overanalyzes things we all come across so that everything gets to be a point of either insecurity or humor. Especially the do's and don'ts in relationships are points of discussion. Accompanied by Ricky, a guy who seems to have women all figured out and comes off as verbally unbeatable, she comes across things that are wrong with her (or at least she thinks so), men, and not being able to do anything without valid I.D. And as if her life isn't troubled enough her seemingly crazy sister comes to live with her, claiming she's the `Queen of the Leather Astro-Girls of Saturn'...<br />One of the best things I've read in a while ... and I do read pretty variable. A smart, well-written continuation of dialogues with many moments that make you think `been there'. The good-looking art is black-and-white with a tone of gray. It's best considered as a cross between Bachalo's art (Death: High Cost of Living) and Sale's (The Long Halloween). Also, the art is nowhere interrupted by text-balloons. All the dialoguing is written under each panel instead of in it. This book is not for those who're looking for an action-packed story with art blowing of the pages, but for those who're into witty dialogues and slightly sarcastic views on everyday life it's one of the best choices you can make.	2001-11-12
US	43571421	R36COUWRXDJXAF	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A mediocre build-up with &amp; ending with historical worth	This collection collects all the issues of the `Death of Superman' story-line, which crossed through multiple Superman titles, in order. To speak in the laws of psychics: find out what happens when an unstoppable force clashes with an unmovable one. <br />It's about: While Superman is getting on with his, for him, normal-day-life (rescuing dames, stopping people from taking over the world etc.) something big is escaping it's prison deep down in the earth. It starts to move and on it's flight it literally leaves a trail of death &amp; destruction. In no-time every super-powered being around goes after it but nobody is able to even slow 'it', quickly nicknamed `Doomsday', down ... wherever it's headed at. And Doomsday DOES have a destination. Superman naturally decides to go after the impressive character.<br />Overall a mediocre story with the eventual results of the story-line as the biggest pull-factor to get it. Luckily the flow of events reads fluently which saves it from becoming boring, but not a heck of a lot happens. The bigger part of the book is filled with brawl-scenes. Up-points are the non-cliche ending and the fact that although the drawings are done by several artists that it's nowhere a problem. The art itself is nothing special but the several styles blend without any problems. For people who're interested in the presented story-line it's a good book because it's hard to get all the issues to read it complete and in chronological order. Even for people who normally don't read much Superman books it's a nice pastime because of the `historical importance' of the story. But objectively seen, quality-wise it isn't far more than average.	2001-11-11
US	43571421	RPATUZQYIC6W2	1563890348	168497267	Doom Patrol, Book 1: Crawling From the Wreckage	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Defence Against Weird Threats	Collected here are the earliest issues of Grant Morrisons Doom Patrol-run (#19-25). A series about a team of enhanced persons, but not like anything you've seen before. The members of Doom Patrol have special abilities. The difference between them and most `superheroes' though, they are not to be envied. Their powers are more burdens than blessings. And the cases they take on are not ordinary either. Reality-crossing beings, occult groups and magic is their field of operation. <br />Someone named Caulder has decided to form a superhuman team. Among the ones he selected to be in this team are Cliff Steele (locked in an unbreakable body-suit), Crazy Jane (with 64 different uncontrollable personalities) and an ape-faced girl named Dorothy ... to give a sense of what this team consists of. Little over half of the book is about the team forming, plucking them from their current situations (plenty is explained about each of them on the way, so no prior knowledge of the title is required). Meanwhile, a mysterious group quickly labeled `scissormen' are causing disappearances all over the world. They literally cut people out of reality. It turns out the fight must be fought philosophically, instead of psychically (it WILL become clear during the story-line). Further there is the story-arc \\"Butterfly Collector\\" about a creature calling himself Red Jack. He claims himself to be God and our world to be just a room in his house. Concluding, there is a single-issue arc where a machine is found which materializes thoughts, not a good thing in the premises of the Doom Patrol.  <br />A typical Vertigo title which especially those who're into things like Shade and Hellblazer will appreciate. Good clear art (comparable to the art in `Animal Man' and `Shade: The Changing Man') and weird but original, interesting story-lines.	2001-11-09
US	43571421	R3KJITOYA0SYFH	1582401136	712029485	Curse of the Spawn, Book 2: Blood and Sutures	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining	I got the first two Curse of the Spawn collections in one deal and after reading the first volume I was looking up against reading this second volume. The first wasn't to my liking. After reading this second book I found it the better of the two. It reads like a good Sam &amp; Twitch arc. Food for people who're into (paranormal) 'serial killer' stories. <br />Without giving it away:<BR>Gretchen is an attractive young woman and her future looks bright. Than she is hit a a car in full speed and an ambulance comes and takes her away. Two cops ride with her in the back. The intentions of the men in the car aren't what you'd call respectable. She will never arrive in the hospital. Shortly after that day more and more wanted serial killers are being found, butchered themselves. Sam &amp; Twitch are on the case, in which the state of victims is pretty bizar. On top of that there's a guy asking their help in another case as well. His girlfriend disappered without a trace ...<br />Although the 'mystery' becomes clear quickly after you start reading, it doesn't grow boring. Unlike the first collection of this series, the dialogue in here is an important factor. Characters interact fluently without any need for much 'explanatory' text-boxes. It's also nice to see a variant (female) version of a Hellspawn. People who appreciate the art on the main Spawn-title will enjoy the inside work here as well. It's detailed, stylish, atmospheric and carries plenty of gore. I'd advise this book mainly to readers who're into Sam &amp; Twitch.	2001-10-31
US	43571421	R1UU94PF01WJ3R	1582400962	582420001	Curse of the Spawn, Book 1: Sacrifice of the Soul	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Depth is good, but it can be overdone	This collection is the first part (it collects #1-4) of a Spawn-series that takes place many years AFTER the events currently in the core-title. In here Hell DID already break loose on earth. It's done in a manner with a mood-setting that is as sick and hopeless as possible. A little bit in the style of Hellraiser, only now worldwide. No element of gore is left un-used.<br />About it: It's the future, 500 years after Hell took over on earth and set loose it's 1000-year war. Perspectives of those few humans still alive in this place are pretty sad. The only function they still seem to have is to be food for the creatures that now roam the world. Because a human body contains water and water is very rare in this day and age. The one who directed the fall of earth is now it's ruler, the 'anti-pope'. Two humans who ARE still alive are trying to make their way from hiding place to hiding place without getting destroyed by one of the many kinds of those who hunt them. Luckily a newborn Hellspawn comes to their aid. Only he's not fully aware of what he has become (or what he is now exactly) and what he can and can't do, yet.<br />The concept is good, only the execution is a little lacking. McElroy likes to describe pain and agony deeply but he tends to go a bit over the top at times. At first that's not really a problem, but when it keeps going on and on it eventually tires a reader down. Especially because there's very little dialogue because off it. The story suffers from it, it seems less important. The art is good, especially for those used to reading the core Spawn title. It will feel faniliair to them. <BR>Though, if you're considering to get into this &quot;Elseworlds Spawn&quot; series I'd advise to get the second volume of the series (&quot;Blood &amp; Sutures&quot;).	2001-10-29
US	43571421	R16UTT9WBSQW4Y	1892597047	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 5: Immortal Enemies (Bk. 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Best volume since &quot;I dream of You&quot;	Strangers in Paradise is about three people (Francine, Katchoo and David) who are constantly in a struggle with their feelings and finding out who loves who in what manner. A big factor is also the past of Katchoo (related to David's past) from which more and more gets out in the open. It is best labelled as &quot;exaggerated action-reality-soap&quot;. This collection being the second book of the third volume (previous collection is called &quot;Love me Tender&quot;).<br />In this particular graphic novel:<br />Katchoo realizes she made a mistake by chasing away David, only David has vanished without a trace so there's no way for here to simply go over to his place and make it up to him (see previous book for details). She goes out to look for him and starts with David's roots, at his sisters place.<BR>Meanwhile Miss Parker (see &quot;I dream of You&quot;, the first book of the 2nd volume) is handling some 'big business'. It gets revealed Miss Parker never stopped monitoring katchoo, her ex-lover. When Katchoo learns of this she has but one question, &quot;who's the mole ?&quot;. A confrontation seems inevitable.<br />Like I said in the review-title, I think this is the best volume since &quot;I Dream of You&quot; (the book that I would advise people to start reading this series with). The story that started in the previous volume is further build up here and shows links that have been there all along but that you never saw. The art is like always in the hands of Terry Moore and is still good and consistent (in black-and-white).  <BR>Again a very nice graphic novel, but like I said I'd start with &quot;I dream of You' (or at the very least &quot;Love me Tender&quot; which is the first part of this particular story). A constantly good series so far, although the main plan of Moore to keep this series as true-to-reality as possible is slowly beginning to slip.	2001-10-28
US	43571421	R3SPY09VIGL93Q	1569712689	895231782	Body Bags	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Killing in the name of ...	I try to keep my reading-selection as divers as possible and sometimes that works out good and sometimes less good, or even pretty bad. In this case it worked out more than satisfying.<br />Without giving anything vital away, it's about:<BR>A team of two bounty-hunters, nicknamed Clownface (in a hilarious outfit, especially the mask) and Pops, have recently been the target of a hit themselves. One of them was injured and, what's worse, his fiancee got killed during the attack. They want revenge for it but they also need their time to make money. Their financial situation isn't exactly impressing.<BR>To make matters worse, the daughter of Clownface (named Panda) comes knocking on their door after not having seen her father in 10 years. She turns out to have become a smart-mouth and a pain in the butt. AND the wants to join her father and become a bounty-hunter (or like they call it, &quot;bodybagger&quot;) herself. <br />The story itself isn't the most innovating thing you'll ever see, but it's good enough. And what's more important, the book's biggest power is the superb dialoguing (comparible to Brian Michael Bendis', the writer of Ultimate Spiderman and Sam &amp; Twitch among other things). This makes it very humurous without making it a 'funnybook' and keeps it action-packed as well. The art is a bit of a mix between Sam Keith (The Maxx) and Greg Capullo (Spawn), which works out pretty well. A nice extra is that the covers of the original issues are reprinted in the back of they book. Not a 'dealwrapper' but nice-looking nonetheless. Your money's worth.	2001-10-27
US	43571421	R21BUJ0YQLBAGR	1563896176	639556681	Preacher VOL 08: All Hell's A-Coming (Dc Comics Vertigo, Book 8)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Getting back on course	Where the previous collection (&quot;Salvation&quot;) was mostly a diversion from the main story, here it slowly gets back on track and sets things up for the big finale in the next and final trade paperback (&quot;Alamo&quot;). <br />The trade starts off with a big story about Tulips youth. It clearifies a lot about how she came to be what she is today, how the average Preacher reader knows her. <BR>When the main story itself starts to continue Tulip goes to her friend Amy and gets to hear some rather unexpected news. It drastically changes her perspective. After that some other entertaining diversion stories are thrown in where Jesse keeps picking up hitchhikers who all tell them their rather uncommon stories. It makes for great laughs (if you're into the typical bizar Ennis humor) and points back to some events of the past. Jesse also meets a bum who tells him more about the dark side of Cassidy ,who she knows from long ago.<BR>Herr Starr is also back (he's literally not half the man he used to be) and gets confronted with another big problem. Meanwhile all is not well in Arsefaces life. <br />Another good volume which proves &quot;Dixie Fried&quot; was only a (minor) onetime slip. It's for a big part a funny diversion from THE story (where Jesse is after God) but it does set things up nicely for the next book which shall end the story. And it doesn't forget to intertwine several humurous sub-plots to keep things easy and light to read.<BR>Steve Dillons art is as good as it has been all the way. If you don't read Preacher you're missing out on one of the best post-80's comicbooks. But like I said at most reviews of the other volumes: start with volume one (&quot;Gone to Texas&quot;) because otherwise it's like you're starting to watch a movie which is already halfway.	2001-10-24
US	43571421	R382E6D6WW9XST	0785101993	703312684	Venom: Carnage Unleashed	Books	3	3	4	N	N	One of the nicer Venom miniseries	I liked the character Venom back how he was when he first arrived in Amazing Spiderman, but I'm not particularly fond of many of the miniseries he starred in. I've said it before and I'll say it again: they should have never tried to make him into an anti-hero. However, this particular miniseries is one of the nicer reads among them. I'll add though, that the emphasis is more on Carnage than on Venom in this story. <br />A little about it: Venom learns of Carnages past crimes being marketed in the form of a videogame, and is utterly repulsed by the fact that Cletus &quot;Carnage&quot; Kassady is going to make a profit of it. Therefore he heads to New York where Cletus is currently being held. Over in Ravencroft, the institution is which they're trying to unravel Kassady's mind, a new psychologist is working on Cletus. Off course Carnage breaks free and Venom, with his own sense of justice, goes after him. Carnage however found a new way to move himself around <br />If you are able to accept the a tad ridiculous new &quot;travel-option&quot; the symbiotes of Venom and Carnage have here (moving from one place to another through the internet), fans of the 'symbiote-mythos' should be well able to enjoy themselves. It isn't a very deep story, but there are other types of comics for that purpose. It's more 'easy-read'. The art is acceptable in the first part (of four). In the other three parts I can't exactly say it's that bad, but it's a little strange (with Carnage getting real teeth and such). It's a little un-detailed without being cartoony. Overall it's nice for fans of Spiderman comics and, like I said, especially those who're into the 'symbiote-mythos'. If you're not, don't get it. If you are than it's a better option than most other Venom-minies.	2001-10-20
US	43571421	RMDFCDFC9DIZT	1563891034	21823006	Lobo's Back's Back!	Books	2	2	5	N	N	There are much better Lobo stories	Lobo is an ultra powerfull bounty-hunter (he even fought Superman to a draw ones) with an awfully violent sense of humor. Next to that he looks the part: black leather, iron chains, bulky as hell and loving heavy metal. He is always on the look-out for victims that are worth a lot of 'credits', the way of payment in his realm. He disposes of them in the most brutal ways he can think off. The only important factor in his life is 'the main man', himself. If you're into bizar and ultra violent stories that remain humurous Lobo could be a good title to you ... generally.<br />About this particular book:<BR>Lobo is low on credits and due to a deal he made with L.E.G.I.O.N. a short while ago there are little job-offers he is allowed to take. And thus he decides to go work FOR somebody for a change, instead of solely for himself. His assignment is to kill a creature who killed all bounty-hunters who came after him so far. The first time he rushes in and gets killed. But his mind is set on another chance and so he makes the man above send him back ... only the incarnations in which he is send back aren't exactly what he'd want them to be.<br />This book isn't a very good example of a 'fun' or well-told Lobo comic. There's TOO much graphic violence and too little of a storyline to hang it up on. Next to that it's hardly funny anywhere, something which Lobo comics aim for most of the time. It all seems like one big figthing sequence without a beginning and lacking an end. Next to that the art isn't suitable for this kind of comic. For humurous elements the art of Val Semeiks, the artist the on ongoing Lobo series, is much better. The art here is way too detailed and meant for 'goreness'.<BR>People who are into Lobo (so, people who are into 'black humor') are better off getting some issues of the Lobo ongoing series or, if you completed that series already, 'Lobo: Portrait of a Victim'. The superior 'Hitman' series by Garth Ennis should also be seriously considered.	2001-10-17
US	43571421	R11M9X43QS4RUP	1563897156	46430639	Preacher VOL 09: Alamo (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Original enough	After five and a half years we here have the final chapter in the Preacher series, together with Sandman (although they're hardly comparible) THE series I'm gonna remember the nineties by ... comic-wise. It's probably the best mass-attractive<BR>'ending ongoing series' yet in print.<BR>It all ends in a satisfying matter, but I can't help but feel that maybe Ennis could have made a little more of it. Still, the ending comes unexpected and is original enough to be deemed a worthy finale.<br />After the previous two trades (&quot;Salvation&quot; and &quot;All Hell is A-Coming&quot;) which were mostly meant as diversions, here Jesse continues his quest to find and confront God. For this he teams up with someone who you'd least expect it from. Starr learns of Jesse's coming and he changes his plans in service of the Grail to his own, he wants bloody revenge (he IS quite the ruin-in-body by now). Arseface gains some new perspective after the events in the last collection. All characters get ready for the big finale, including Cassidy (who is a little under-exposed in the two previous trades but is fully present again here). A little extra note of humurous input comes through Hoover, Featherstone's male colleague, who is a new man after 'speaking' to Jesse again after the 'count-sand' disaster.<br />All in all a worthy ending of a great series. One that comes by only once in a while. Original, humurous, good dialoguing AND action-packed. Garth Ennis told his tale from beginning to end with ONE steady artist on the title, which is rare these days. That artist, Steve Dillon, kept his art at a constant quailty-level. I'm gonna miss this title but I'm also glad it wasn't milked dry. The series wouldn't deserve such a fate.<BR>For the last time I'm gonna say as well that you really should start with volume 1 (&quot;Gone to Texas&quot;) and work your way up from there. This is not a story of which you can read &quot;just an arc halfway', it's one big tale.	2001-10-17
US	43571421	R1AEO92T33X2F0	0871354918	113112823	Silver Surfer: Parable	Books	4	14	18	N	N	More than I expected	I'm someone who is slowly leaving the superherogenre in comics. Next to that I never was a very big fan of Stan Lee as a writer. My surpirse was big when I started reading this and noticed the actual depth in here.<br />An enormous spaceship enters earth and the world is in fear. It lands and a creature who calls himself Galactus comes out. At first people are in fear and nobody dares to displease him. Earth is entirely without war or terrorism for a moment. A fake disciple steps up and tells how Galactus is the returning incarnation of the Messiah. Because there has been worldpeace since Galactus landed the disciple is believed. People start worshipping the creature from beyond and follow Galactus' every worth. Questioning nothing. The entire world is soon in chaos. The Silver Surfer decides to step up out of the anonymous mass and tries to convince people to stop listening to Galactus. An 'act against God'...<br />Although the dialogue is full of cliches it's never bothering here, it reads away fluently. And what's more important, the story itself is interesting and honestly thought-provoking. Not only is a fight between good vs bad presented here, but it also makes you think on what grounds you decide something is good or bad. It emphasizes the importance of one thinking for oneself instead of blindly following something you believe in. To never stop questioning. A free mind is everything.<BR>The art by Moebius, although not his best, is very good as well. His imaging of Silver Surfer is probably the best I'be seen so far. I'd definately recommend this to both superhero fans as non-superhero fans.	2001-10-17
US	43571421	R1LT92GGYZ8HN4	1563896176	639556681	Preacher VOL 08: All Hell's A-Coming (Dc Comics Vertigo, Book 8)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Getting back on course	Where the previous collection (&quot;Salvation&quot;) was mostly a diversion from the main story, here it slowly gets back on track and sets things up for the big finally in the next and final trade paperback (&quot;Alamo&quot;).<br />The trade starts off with a big story about Tulips youth. It clearifies a lot about how she came to be what she is today, how the average Preacher reader knows her. <BR>When the main story itself starts to continue Tulip goes to her friend Amy and gets to hear some rather unexpected news. It drastically changes her perspective. After that some other entertaining diversion stories are thrown in where Jesse keeps picking up hitchhikers who all tell them their rather uncommon stories. It makes for great laughs (if you're into the typical bizar Ennis humor) and points back to some events of the past. Jesse also meets a bum who tells him more about the dark side of Cassidy ,who she knows from long ago.<BR>Herr Starr is also back (he's literally not half the man he used to be) and gets confronted with another big problem. Meanwhile all is not well in Arsefaces life. <br />Another good volume which proves &quot;Dixie Fried&quot; was only a (minor) onetime slip. It's for a big part a funny diversion from THE story (where Jesse is after God) but it does set things up nicely for the next book which shall end the story. And it doesn't forget to intertwine several humurous sub-plots to keep things easy and light to read.<BR>Steve Dillons art is as good as it has been all the way. If you don't read Preacher you're missing out on one of the best post-80's comicbooks. But like I said at most reviews of the other volumes: start with volume one (&quot;Gone to Texas&quot;) because otherwise it's like you're starting to watch a movie which is already halfway.	2001-10-17
US	43571421	R1KJEOSJ5UZH80	0785101071	998901284	Venom: Lethal Protector	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Is making Venom an anti-hero wise ?	This is the first miniseries in which Venom appears where he is the main character, instead of Spiderman. It's one of the first steps in which Marvel tried to turn Eddy Brock a.k.a. as Venom from a villain into an antihero. A project that failed and made one of Spidermans formerly most popular villains into the vague second-stringer he is today. This story in itself is fairly enjoyable still, although it's nothing groundshattering. <br />A short while before the events that take place in this trade (it collects the 6-part mini) Venom and Spiderman made a deal. They both swore to leave the other alone as long as both didn't interfere with the other. AND as long as Venom would stay on the right side of the law. The tv-news tells Peter Parker otherwise now. Venom moved to L.A. and found out about an underground place a group of people made into their little mini-society, hidden from the world. Eddy thinks he can become happy there and tries to find a way to make these people want him in their group.<BR>Meanwhile the father of one of his former victims is looking for him with his self-formed taskforce to take his revenge. And at the time Spidey arrives there seem to be five more symbiote-wearing people. <br />Like I said, this Venom story is fairly enjoyable (unlike most other solo Venom books) but it isn't great. The fact that the story is illustrated by multiple artists wasn't the best of choices, and the story has too many sub-plots. It seems like it can't decide which is the most important one. In the end it all comes together rather standard. For fans of the character Venom there's some nice stuff in here though. It's nice to see other people wearing Venom offsprings (like Carnage), only I feel the potential was greater than the eventual results. If you're a fan of the character Venom you could get it (it IS more Venom stuff before he was made into a travesty), otherwise stay away from this.	2001-10-13
US	43571421	R29474BWD1FXPR	1563895196	467048679	Preacher, Vol. 7: Salvation	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Precisely the tune-up the series needed !	I think this volume is exactly what the series needed. A nice diversion of the things that were going on so far. A little break from the bombastic story it was turning into. But most of all, back to the typical bizarre-humor-action Ennis writing that hasn't been this good since volume 2 (the collection about Jesse's childhood in Angelville). <br />A little about the story:<BR>After witnessing 'that nasty event' with Cassidy and Tulip (see previous volume &quot;War in the Sun&quot;) Jesse turned around and split. He drove into this little in-the-middle-of-nowehere town called &quot;Salvation&quot; and became sherif of it.<BR>There he went to live with Lorie, the sister of his childhood friend Billy-Bob (see volume 2 &quot;Untill the end of the World&quot;), and another woman called Jodie. A woman who will later on in the book turn out to be a lot more than 'just a woman'. Especially for Jesse. The red line in the story is Jesse having his own private war with the local redneck, bigmouthed meatcompany owner. His quest to find God is off for now. <BR>Next to the mentioned things, the gap between 'now' and the moment he fell from the plane gets filled in as well.  <BR>There's also another meet-up between Jesse and 'Spaceman', the man who went to Vietnam with Jesse's father. This also makes for another great warstory, Garth Ennis' guilty pleasure.<br />Next to &quot;Untill the end of the World&quot; this is probably the best collection of the series. It's a little less forced than several of the trades that have gone (shortly) before and Ennis lets himself go to just tell an entertaining story. Some things are uncovered, but never forced. Ennis goes all out putting humor in the clash between Jesse and 'The Meatman'. If you haven't read a Preacher collection yet don't get this though ! Start with &quot;Gone of Texas (volume 1), because with this series it's highly neccesary to read the collections in order. <BR>I'm glad the series has fully restored itself with this collection and the slump only was one trade long (Dixie Fried).	2001-10-13
US	43571421	RPEBPXT7AYCVM	1563891905	423489694	Batman: The Last Arkham	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Well enough but nothing special	When I first started reading the presented story in this collection (it collects 'Batman: Shadow of the Bat #1-4') my interest was sparked. It all started off rather promising and seemed to be something more than your average Batman tale. Jeremiah Arkham is an interesting character and Arkham Asylum is a scene with great potential for psycho-thriller storylines (take for example &quot;Arkham Asylum&quot; by Grant Morisson). It's too bad that when the story was half done, in a good way, it seemed to shift over as if on automatic pilot. It then evolved into a cliche Batman-knows-all-and-hunts-down-the-crook story of which we have so many already. <br />A short intro to know what it's about a little:<BR>In Arkham Asylum, Gotham City's nutthouse for the criminally insane, we find a rather unexpected inhabitant, Batman. He was put there because he went berserk and lethally attacked an officer. This because of his frustrations about not knowing what to do in the multiple-murdercase he's trying to figure out. All the clues lead to only one person, Zsasz, but he is already in Arkham Asylum and has been there all the while the murders took place. Batman is puzzled and him being locked up doesn't seem to help too.<br />Like I said, it all starts off rather promising and intriguing. But it lacks an evenly interesting conclussion and instead just hops over on an already paved path. The art is not spectacularly good either, but it's sufficient. It's only painfully obvious that the artist mostly concentrated on making Batman look good, and hurried a little doing the rest of the panel. Fans of Nightwing will not appreciate how he looks here. And a thing I don't mind easy is something which bugs me more than a little in this book: the coloring is .. let's just say &quot;not good&quot;. It looks a little like the colorist really wanted to do it with other colors but that they weren't there right then, and than just opted for the next best thing.<BR>All in all it isn't exactly the worst Batman story imaginable, but it isn't good or bringing something new to the character neither. If you're looking for a good Batman story than you could get it if you have most of all the other modern day Batman stories already. If you don't you'd rather get something like 'Prey','Faces','Knightfall (collected in two trades)','Joker: Devil's Advocate' or one of the more obvious choices like 'Long Halloween', 'Year One' or 'Return of the Dark Knight' which are all superior to this.	2001-10-10
US	43571421	R37SFR04WPI8M8	1563894106	913689144	Supergirl	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Nice reading, though mostly for fans of the super-mythos	Normally I don't read much superfamily-related books, but since this was written by Peter David and I could get my hands on it cheap I was willing to try it. Never judge before you know, right ? I came out, not overly impressed but entertained more than enough. This is not the book (which collects Showcase '96 #12 and Supergirl #1-9) that will get me into super-titles but it was worth the read. No regrets.<br />It's about: <BR>First of all it's very vital for new-to-supermythos readers like me to pay attention to the written intro. It tells about who Supergirl was, is, and how she came to be what she is now.<BR>The actual illustrated story starts off with Supergirl being in a major indentity crisis. It turns out she is somehow in the body of a woman named Linda Danvers. Not only is that utterly confusing because she is in someone elses body, but also because this is the first ever time Supergirl is in a fully valid human body. She is now trying out to find out what exactly she is now. Also, her powers are changing. <BR>All the while there's a man appearing on and off who is responsible for Supergirls current state of being. He 'murdered' Linda Danvers in order to force Supergirl into her body, and former Linda Danvers isn't exactly that innocent herself (sounds confusing but it's all explained).  <BR>A big part in the second half of the book is about how Linda, who started off as an innocent girl, grew into the person she was just before she 'died', and how. For me that is also the most interesting part.<br />Overall storywise it's nice to read, although for non-superpeople-interns a little hard to relate too. An up-point for me is that Supergirl is less noble-hearted than Superman. She doesn't fear to use harsh ways in getting what she wants. The art in the Supergirl issues is clear and nicely styled, although I think it could have been a little more powerfull. This being a (hyper) superhero-title. It's a little in between the styles of Moebius and David Mazzucchelli (in his 'Batman Year One' days). The art in the Showcase issue with which the trade starts is better, in my taste. More contrasting and colorfull. <BR>I'd recommend it to 'Super-fans' and overall fans of Peter David (who's hand is clearly seen). But I would steer clear of it if you're not. Not because it's bad but more because there is so much better stuff out there.	2001-10-09
US	43571421	R1UONS9OM7321Q	1892597039	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 4: Love Me Tender	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Still going strong	Strangers in Paradise is the tale about three friends who seem stuck in their love for each other. Each one trying to figure out what to do with their feelings, they get confused, surprised, disappointed and cheered up during events.<BR>Where most titles start off strong and then fall into the big grey area, this title keeps me interested and entertained. This here is vol. 4 of the collections but it can also be used as a jump-on TPB for newcomers to the title. It collects the first 5 issues of volume III.<br />First off we make a jump in time, many years past the events in the previous collection (&quot;It's a Good Life&quot;). Francine is a middle-aged woman now, with a little daughter, and has been married for ten years. It's been equally as long since she last saw her best friend Katchoo. When she's sitting in a restaurant oneday an old acquaintance walks by and mentions she just saw Katchoo sitting in the lobby. Right there memory-train leaves the station for Francine. She starts thinking about how things were when she and Katchoo used to live together.<BR>The rest of the paperback is about those memories (which are the real continuations from the previous volumes). We see Francine trying to get a job and trying to gain some self-esteem. We see how our main three characters (David, Katchoo and Francine) keep on struggling with their feelings in their little love-triangle where nobody really oversees it all. Katchoo realizing how she really knows little about David, and off course there's still the humor in the dialogues (or else it wouldn't be Strangers in Paradise). <br />The colors in the first few issues seem a little strange at first. That's because this trade is in black-and-white and the original issues collected here were in color. Imagine making a black-and-white copy of a colored page and you know what I mean. Luckily that's only in the first few issues, the rest is back in original black-and-white (as seen before). The art is as good as it ever was (fluent, realistic and clear) and the story never stopped being interesting. Although I would advise to get &quot;I Dream of You&quot; and &quot;It's a Good Life&quot; (they together collect vol.2 in its entirety) first, it isn't really neccesary. You should get them to get to know the characters and because they're good, but this is a good jump-on point as well for new readers. There's minor hinting to what happened previously in this volume, but it's nowhere essential. <BR>This title is a good diversion from most other comics and can best be described as a action-humor-dramatized-soap-opera centered around three characters. And it works ...<br />People who like this title should also keep an eye out for &quot;Box Office Poison&quot; and &quot;The Waiting Place&quot;.	2001-10-01
US	43571421	R2OZNKDVI6DD5T	0943151368	822566751	1: The Waiting Place Book One	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More of my favorite &quot;subgenre&quot;	It's nice to know that next to things like 'Box Office Poison' and 'Strangers in Paradise' there's more like it available in my favorite subgenre, namely 'The Waiting Place' (this books collects #1-6 of the series).<BR>I compare it mainly to Strangers in Paradise because it really is a lot like it, only it centers around more and more various young people. Where it differs from Strangers in Paradise is in the fact that it doesn't try to built a humorous factor in it. It just 'reports' everyday, typical life. <br />It's about:<BR>Jeffrey just moved with his parents to a place far away from where they used to live. He came from a big city and now has to live in a minor village full of rednecks, with all their presumptions. Needless to say he's having a hard time at it. In the meanwhile the other youngsters there are also trying to create some movement in their lives, since their habitat in itself offers little.<BR>Most of the time all the characters are dealing with typical problems you face at their age (the phase between youngster/young adult), like insecurity about oneself and about girls, wether you're gonna fit in, and how you're gonna tell your parents your &quot;awful&quot; secret. Some of them start realizing the difference between what things used to mean to them when they were kinds and now. It has a high &quot;Deja-Vu' factor. <br />This book collects the first 6 issues, like I said, which are not a completed arc. That is not a bad thing because there ARE no arcs really, it's more like watching an ongoing tv-series. Little subplots start and end all the time, but they are intertwined, there are no 'real' endings anywhere.<BR>Another, what I consider, strong point is that Kelly (he writer) tells it like it is, no romanticized elements. This makes it unpredictable all the way, you never know what is going to happen next. Artwise it's pretty nice. It's no Terry Moore but that's mainly due to the difference in style, not in skill. It's very clear and more thansufficient. My conclussion shall not be a surprise: if you like Box Office Poison and/or Strangers in Paradise (for those who haven't read those: comicbooks about 'real life', in all its aspects with as little as possible exaggeration) this will probably be to your liking.	2001-09-30
US	43571421	R1VJY9QJTO000N	0679729771	587113700	002: Maus II: A Survivor's Tale: And Here My Troubles Began (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A good continuation but the first volume was better executed	This second 'Maus' volume completes the story that began in vol.1 . It handles the part of the war when the people where actually being put in the camps, where the first volume was about the things that happened before, up till the point where the war is over. For shock-value this is a boost. The horrors of the events in the WW II destruction camps are illustrated quite 'well', not like the (slightly) romanticized versions you find in most movies. There were no heroes in the camps, only those who died and those who survived, by any means possible. You see Vladek, Arts Spiegelman's (the writer of this book) father, taking on all kind of roles in order to grab even the slightest chances to be on the 'good' side of the camp-population. The side which is 'still of use' and won't be destroyed ... for the time being. <br />The second storyline, that goes on at the same time (they intertwine), is the relationship between Art's father (the 'survivor') and Art. This is shown in the parts where Vladek takes a break from telling Art about the war and we get shown the 'here and now' in the time the book was researched. The war may be long over but Vladek is still carrying the legacy ... in everything he does. Both mentally as psychically Add to it that Art isn't exactly the easiest, most patient person either and you'll realize conflicts aren't rare. <br />It isn't all good in this book though. Off course the illustrations aren't everything, but where they were enough to tell the story in the right mood in volume 1, they get rather confusing at times here. The panels don't flow into each other well either. Going from one panel to the other requires some thinking, to fill the hole Spiegelman leaves from your own memory of other parts of the book a lot of times. This doesn't exactly add to the reading experience. And the story itself is missing something as well. It's full of shock-value but the context in which it is placed misses detailing. It's as if the shock-value is mostlythere only for the purpose of shock, not to add to the story (which it DID in volume 1).<br />In conclussion it still is a pretty good book to get, if you've also read volume 1. My criticism may sound a little harsh sometimes but take into mind that criticism is based on comparing it to book 1. It's a nice diversion from most other stuff that goes around in comicdom and the fact it really happened (although it's very subjective off course) adds to the experience. So I'd say you should get book 1 (&quot;My Father Bleeds History&quot;) and if you crave for more after that THAN get this. But if you think it's enough after book I it's nice to know that the first part alone can be read as a self-contained book as well.	2001-09-28
US	43571421	R1C400ENYFP6DE	1563896613	240046168	Authority, The: Relentless	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good but has more potential rhan results	The Authority is a secret global-protection group ('superheroes') who protects the earth from things 'normal' human agencies can't handle. Things that aren't known to the general public. With a wide variety of superpowered 'humans' they are pretty well equiped in every situation.<BR>Although this series spawned off the earlier 'Stormwatch' title, you needn't be too familiair with it. Knowledge about what happened in Stormwatch is a pre, not a must. It's not like you'll miss out on anytthing vital in here if you haven't read it, only you'll know some more on the back-ground of SOME characters if you have (not all).<BR>This first collection collects #1-8 of the series, which are basically divided in two four-part sub-plots (the complete Warren Ellis run/storyline goes on for another four issues in the second volume, along with the first four Mark Millar-written issues). <br />Storywise intro: <BR>The first sub-arc is called &quot;The Circle&quot;. A dictator/tyrant ruler of the island called 'Gamorra' is trying to put his mark on the rest of the world in a rather brutal, unconventional way. It's up to the top-secret global defensive group &quot;Authority&quot; to put him to a stop. In this arc the group is forming and deciding who it's members are gonna be. It's mostly used as an explanation to the reader who the characters, led by Jenny Sparks, are and what they are about (powers, a little background and such). <BR>The second story-arc is called &quot;Shiftships&quot;. Earth is under attack by creatures from an alternative earth. Jenny Sparks knows these creatures (half humans) from her past, but she was convinced they were long dead. The question is how to stop them, but luckily Jenny has an ace up her sleeve which should give her group a fair chance. The intentions of the invaders get revealed to be even worse than first pressumed though. <BR>In here you learn more about the ways of the Authority. It's wise to pay good attention here on subjects as 'the bleed' (inwhich they travel) because it is pretty vague at first but important in the long haul.<BR> <BR>Overall my conclussion is that this is a pretty nice title. It's not ALL that but it's certainly above average and won't be a waste of your money (which is a good thing in this day and age of comicdom). Compared to the other Warren Ellis Wildstorm title (Planetary) this one is artwise a little better. Having said that I'll be quick to add that storywise Planetary is better by far. The biggest problem with Authority is lack of debt character-wise. These people do the things they do but miss an explained motivation. Were Planetary is very slow in revealing it's characters fully, it has a certain thing that makes you curious about them, making every revelation anticipated and welcome. It keeps you wanting to read on. That doesn't happen at all here and curiousness isn't sparked. That's a shame because otherwise it could have been great I think. But still, worthy of 4 outta 5 stars.	2001-09-28
US	43571421	R2DJUKDL9HS458	1891830198	803391257	Box Office Poison	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Very refreshing	In an industry where 'bigger, harder, shinier' is the status quo, the 'Box Office Poison' collection (this book collects every single Box Office Poison issue in existence, making it a more than complete story) came to me as a refreshing experience, and a very good one at it.<BR>I can understand why people compare it to 'Strangers in Paradise', but I will hastely add that it's not the same kinda book in its entirety. Where Strangers in Paradise almost exclusively focuses on relationships and what comes with them, Box Office Poison takes a wider view and handles everyday life of a certain group of people in it's entirety. WITH relationships, but also with (in)security issues, finding out what to do with your life, gaining perspective on it and REALLY see how a personal life evolves (where it is a little romanticized in most comics in this 'genre', even Strangers in Paradise). The main point is that nothing happening in it is in any way forced. It's what comes and goes. Very relatable.<br />A storywise introduction: Although the story is about an entire group of people there are two characters, the friends Sherman and 'Ed', around which everything evolves, the red line if you will. Sherman is just out of college, wants to be a writer, but for now works in a bookstore as a clerk. The shy and insecure Ed wants to become a cartoonist. Along the book you'll witness the ups and downs, recognizable joys and annoyments (funny if you're into sarcasm) and relationships being made and broken. Various things happen like for instance: Ed trying everything he can to gain some confidence, honesty and loyalty (or lack off it) in the comic industry, people assuming things they 'heard somewhere' and only seeing how somebody means something to you when he or she isn't there at the time. But also less 'deep' things like a philosophy about why men just HAVE to look when there's cleavage shown and stupid things people ask clerks (you'll find yourself go &quot;damn, I did that !' more thanonce). <br />All in all this little un-exaggerated comic-book soap-opera is the nicest thing I've read in a while and the most refreshing thing since I first opened a Strangers in Paradise Graphic Novel.<BR>The art is, compared to the before mentioned book, a little less good but the variety in storylines AND a very plot-twisting last few pages makes than up more than enough. Funny as well, but never forced. Very relatable and as uncliche as  it gets. A lot of good pages of fun for your money.	2001-09-26
US	43571421	R17M9WSSZRBFD5	1929998007	419572631	The Adventures of Barry Ween, Boy Genius	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Funny but not hilarious	This is the first TPB of the Barry Ween comicseries, which reprints the first 3-part (black-and-white) miniseries.<br />Although I haven't really seen the greatness of this series in here, which I'm told IS existing in later volumes, it's still good entertainment. It's funny though, not hilarious.<br />Barry is a boy with an IQ that would be 350 points if it was to be measured. Over-aware of everything around him and sarcastic to the bone. His smarts enable him to get his way most of the time, often in bluntly humurous ways.<br />In this particular volume Barry first accidently opens an inter-dimensional portal which looks like and is referred to as ...uhm ... let's just say 'big-sized female genitalia'. The problems with this really start when his father is sucked in and comes back out heavily transformed.<br />Next issue, Barry learns to never let anyone alone in his room, when his best friend Jeremy decides to drink one of his experimental potions. With disastrous results.<br />In the final issue of the trade Barry decides it could be fun to go to school, like any normal boy his age would do. Off course it doesn't turn out to be a normal day and Barry and his classmates are taken hostage.<br />In all these issues Barry finds pretty ... let's say 'inventive ways' of dealing with the problems at hand. In the meanwhile cursing like a boatworker all the time.<br />All in all the book is good fun, entertaining. But like I said before: it isn't all that and a bag of potato chips (yet ?). If you're looking for some harmless uncomplicated fun, and you're not easily offended by faul language, this could be good for you. Matt Wagner (creator of Grendel and Sandman Mystery Theatre) describes it as &quot;South Park meets Dexters Lab&quot; and I can see the logic in that conclussion. Although I'll be quick to add it's nowhere as downright hilarious as South Park in this volume. But if you're into the foresaid kind off humor you won't be disappointed with it.	2001-09-20
US	43571421	R2V45VV8RA6ZB7	1563892804	152777125	Joker: The Devil's Advocate (Batman)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the best self-contained Batman-related stories	For people who are fan of the character Joker this is a very good book. It's one of the best books in defining the personality and characterization of the Joker even, both through art as through the story. In a way it's off course a Batman-book but the title rightfully states &quot;Joker: ...&quot; instead of Batman. The story and by far the biggest attention-span focuses on the Joker. Batman is mostly used as a supportive character. Nothing more, nothing less. So from an objective point of view this is not a Batman-book, but a Joker-book, and a good one at it. <br />Storywise:<BR>The Joker is put on trial, being accused of masterminding the recent spree of &quot;Stamp-Deaths&quot;, a period in which several people are found dead carrying the trademark &quot;Joker-smile&quot; after licking stamps of the &quot;Great Comedians Series&quot;.<BR>Where the Joker always claimed insanity in previous occassions in court, having him come off with milder punishments, this time he furiously claims to be innocent of these crimes. By this taking the risk of getting the maximum penalty, the death-sentence. He refuses to carry the punishment for crimes he hasn't committed and were executed so amateurish, or so he claims. Obviously the jury finds him guilty and he IS sentenced to death. Once in death-row the Joker is enraged at first, but once he notices the attention he is getting from the outside world he starts to love it ..... more and more.<BR>In the meanwhile Batman has his doubts wether the Joker is guilty or not and starts his own investigation. <br />Together with &quot;The Killing Joke&quot; this is the book that defines the Joker better than any other Batman (or Batman-related) title and for fans of the character this is a must-have. And I don't say that a lot of times ! (which can be seen proven in my other reviews). Especially look for he scenes which are set in the court-room where they have the Joker communicate brilliantly with his facial expressions instead of words. A big plus for the art there. Also nice is that this book works as a self-contained story so people who are less familiair with the Batman-mythos can enjoy this just as much.	2001-09-09
US	43571421	RWVEX33OEHPBX	1569712255	985625409	Sin City: That Yellow Bastard (Book 4)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Best Sin City volume	This collection of the originally six-issue storyline &quot;That Yellow Bastard&quot; might just be the best volume the Sin City line has offered so far. Both art as storywise everything is top-notch. The choice Miller made to add the color yellow to the normally only black/white art, which is both finely detailed and mood-setting, is very functional and refreshing, and the storyline has enough plot-twists to keep the reader interested (not like for example in &quot;The Big Fat Kill&quot; which was a nice story but had pretty obvious plot-twists in my opinion).<br />The story is about a cop named Hartigan who has only an hour to go before he will go into early retirement, doctor's orders. There's just one loose end he really wants to tie up before he does. He wants to save an eleven year old girl out of the hands of a sadistic kid-killer/rapist who has shown before he can kill without remorse. Only problem is that the abductor is the son of the senator, and hardly touchable because of it. He tracks him down and THAT's when things start to happen from which we learn how corrupt Sin City in its entirety really is. Hartigan is in for a world of pain from there on, both psychically and mentally, with only one person in the world who still believes in him, that being the girl he was trying to save. But is that save for her ? Only time will tell, and the story has but just begun ...<br />My compliments go, again, to the art in which it shows that Miller was still incredible into this little project of his and also to a story which skilfully avoids becoming predictable anywhere. With that I can add that this is probably THE most violent and bizar volume of the series, with a very original ending that only gets reveiled in the last three pages.<br />Note with this book is that although people like Marv and Dwight (main-characters from other Sin City volumes) are mentioned and even minorly featured in it, they are in now way a factor in the story. This is a 100% self-contained storyline. Good pick if you're into police/noir stories. People who like Sin City story-wise are advised to also try out the titles &quot;Astro City&quot; and &quot;Top Ten&quot; sometimes. Not entirely the same but there's a good chance you'll like it.storyline. Good pick if you're into police/noir stories. People who like Sin City story-wise are advised to also try out the titles &quot;Astro City&quot; and &quot;Top Ten&quot; sometimes. Not entirely the same but there's a good chance you'll like it.	2001-09-03
US	43571421	R2LNQKCXMC6UR3	1569710848	840360487	Harlan Ellison's Dream Corridor Special	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not good, not bad ...	What we have here is Harlan Ellison having some of his short stories (of which he has written over two thousand) adapted into being graphic stories.<br />An illustrated character (Ellison himself) takes the reader into his \\"corridor of dreams\\" where all the stories he ever wrote are stored in departments. He guides us through the humungous building and opens a department every now and then. Everytime he does the tour is interrupted and we get to read a selected short story ( a window-tale if you will), adapted into comicdom by different people (Len Wein, Michael T. Gilbert and others).<BR>In this particular book are five of those short-stories which vary in quality. I definately want to point out \\"Rat-hater\\", a story about a guy taking revenge in the most gruesome way he can think of on a guy who is responsible for his sisters death. To my taste this is the best story in the book (both the story as the painted art are not to be missed). Some of the others are nice (The Len Wein story and something called \\"On the Slab\\") but there's also a story done by Phil Foglio about which you'll probably feel sorry you took the time for it afterwards.<BR>Between the several short stories, in the sequences where Ellison takes the reader from one department to another, Ellison uses some pages to take some personal shots at people who in his eyes wrongfully criticezed his work, in a pretty chauvinistic way.<BR>The last two pages contain part of a new never-printed-before piece of proze by Ellison.<br />All in all the conclussion I must come to is that this is not a spectacularly good book. There are some nice (not great) stories in here and there are some lesser ones.... As it is it's quite enjoyable but only worth the money for true Harlan Ellison fans who can't get enough of him.	2001-08-31
US	43571421	R2XKTH2JDYMIVI	1563895528	573195423	Kurt Busiek's Astro City: Family Album	Books	4	7	9	N	N	One of the better series in the superhero-genre	Astro City is a city filled with superpowered beings. You can't walk from street to street without noticing at least one meta-human, if you're an inhabitant of the city. But not so like most 'superhero-titles' the focus here isn't only on the heroes and their deeds, but on the regular people who live (and try to cope with all the supernatural activities around them) there as well. It tells about their personal lives as well as about the events they all witness.<BR>This Trade-Paperback is the first Astro City collection that collects issues from the ongoing series (#1-3 &amp; #10-13, no loose ends there though).<BR>The great thing about Astro City TPB's is that they both work for longtime readers as for people who are new to the title. For 'experienced' readers there are many recognizable (background-) characters, surroundings and situations that it feels familiair (without being repetitive), yet never the same. At the same time all those recognizable parts aren't vital points to the story-arcs so that new-comers will never feel like their missing out on something (and once they're through reading their first TPB and move on to another Astro City book THEIR party of recognition begins, without anything being spoiled in a previous book. No matter what order you read them in because they work as self-contained books as well). The issues in this book I'd like to advise to especially take a good look at are #10-12. Issue #10 is about a man called &quot;The Junkman&quot; who once managed to pull off the greatest bank-robbery in the history of Astro City. Only the one thing he wants most, recognition for it, he doesn't have. He decides to go back and do it again. Issues #11/12 are about one of the most famous characters of Astro City namely 'Jack-in-the-Box'. One evening he leaves home and he gets confronted with some persons from his 'possible futures'. An event which makes him rethink his activities, both private as professional.<BR>Finally the volume is concluded with some pages filled with sketches of how the characters came to be what they are now AND the Alex Ross covers to the original issues which are collected in here.<BR>Like I said in my review-title, I consider this one of the best titles in the genre where superheroes are involved. It's about superheroes AND about regular folks among them AND about the the lives these metahumans have apart from being heroes. Especially people who liked &quot;Marvels&quot; and Alan Moore's &quot;Top Ten&quot; will have a good time with this book, but it really should appeal to most other comicbook-readers as well, both superhero-fans as fans whose interest lies in the more 'serious' sub-genres. Really well-executed.	2001-08-30
US	43571421	R24EM9M0T8NC6C	0785102868	639608960	The Amazing Spider-Man (The Essential Spider-Man, Volume 1)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Stories well-worth reading available for a reasonable price	After having read this volume (which collects Amazing Fantasy #15, Amazing Spiderman #1-20 and Amazing Spiderman Annual #1) the conclussion I must draw is that this is probably the best choice for someone who wants to get old Spidey stories sheer for the fun of reading them. Collectors and people who want their stuff to look good on their shelf might rather choose for the more expensive Marvel Masterwork volumes (which are more than twice the cost per volume, very hard to get, collect half the stories that are collected in here per volume, but are hardcover and in color), but if you're solely getting a collection to read these issues THIS is your best choice I think. Given, the art is in black-and-white but it's solid and detailed enough for that not to be a problem (although I'll be the first one to admit it doesn't work that way with every artist). The issues collected in here are ALL written by Stan Lee and drawn by Steve Ditko. Although some of the stories are, when compared to many stories written since then, maybe a little old-fashioned, it's good to see there are a lot of issues in here which are surprisingly good compared to a lot of other Marvels that were published at that time (of which a lot would be considered very corny today). I think some of them would even be considered 'reasonably good' if they were printed today. The art by Ditko is also very solid (you can really see how detailed he worked in black-and-white) although in all honesty his successor, John Romita sr. was just a tad better. For persons who've been reading Spiderman for a longer period of time there are very nice reads here about, for example, the first appereances of Doc Octopus, The Lizard, Kraven the Hunter, Mysterio and of course the original Green Goblin. Especially look for #6 (origin of the Lizard), #15 (Kraven hunting Spiderman) and #20 (the creating of the Scorpion) which are as far as I'm concerned the best issues in the book. I'd also like to mention that it's not all just about supercharacters fighting each other, but that reading about the inter-personal relationships between some of the characters is a big plus for the title. You get to see how and why Peter first picked up a camera, him and Aunt May worrying too much over each other, him really being bullied by Flash Gordon (Spidermans biggest fan!), his first meeting with Daredevil and off course his blooming feelings for Betty Brant. If you've read some of the later Amazing Spiderman comics you'll find yourself going &quot;oh yeah !&quot; a lot with this book when you recognize certain things from how they are now. Good reading for Spiderman fans. I'll add though that if you're not really into Spiderman continuity and are just looking for a nice (mostly self-contained) Spiderman story there are better choices like &quot;Parallel Lives&quot;, &quot;Origin of the Hobgoblin&quot; or &quot;Spiderman vs Green Goblin&quot;.	2001-08-27
US	43571421	R1Y21DAD1J9122	0785107169	337731281	Spider-Man: The Death of Gwen Stacy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Green Goblin, undoubtly one of Spidermans greatest foes	Off course everybody who starts reading this trade knows what will be the most important event in the book, even before they start reading. But I do feel the TPB is still very much worth the read. 'The event' is, although the best part, certainly not your ONLY reason for reading this book, the rest is also very enjoyfull for the fan of Spiderman continuity (especially the involvement of Harry Osborn). When the event itself finally takes place it makes you kind of sad (as far as a comic-book gets you there) which is also a result of the very skilled manner in which they portrayed it. Basically the trade is divided in three parts. The first part is the reprinting of Amazing Spiderman #96-98 a.k.a. as the famous 'free of comic-code' drug-issues (written by Stan Lee with art by Gil Kane). In it Peter decides to take the opportunity his room-mate, Harry Osborn, has created for him to take a job at his father's (Norman) company. Norman has a block in his mind and doesn't remember he was once the Green Goblin. Meanwhile Harry is having a hard time trying to cope with MJ, the girl he loves, giving him the cold shoulder and together with the pressure he constantly feels to keep his father happy Harry finally seeks shelter in taking drugs. The most relevance this story has for the trade is that it sets the stage perfectly for what's to come. Norman is shifting in and out Green Goblin-mode again for the first time since he got amnesia and Gwen Stacy returns to New York (after trying to get over her fathers death with her aunt and uncle in London). The second part of the trade is reprinting #121-122 (written by Gerry Conway with art by Gil Kane). When his son Harry is sick of a bad drug experience again (see the relevance ?) and receiving news of business going down the drain on top of it, it's too much for Norman Osborns fragile mind and he turns into Green Goblin once again. Blaming Spiderman/Peter (remember that Green Goblin is the only man who knows Peter is Spiderman !) for all his troubles he kidnaps Gwen Stacy. What happens next is something most of us already know but still when the moment is there it sends a little chill down our spines (mine at least). It's one of the most influential events in superhero-dom up till this very day and you'll be happy to agree with me in saying that once you've been through it. An important thing is that the path for the writers to start evolving Mary-Jane is now clear. The third and final part of the trade is a NEW (little) story by DeMatteis and Romita Sr called &quot;The kiss&quot;. A tribute to the character Gwen Stacy about her and Pete's last ever date together. Also a very worthy story to be in the book because it's a very well-written piece about Peter and Gwen's feelings for each other and really adds to the mood. In conclussion I must honestly admit that maybe quality-wise it's not the best TPB ever to see print (certainly not a bad one though !), but for Spiderman fans (like me) that really doesn't matter and they'll remember it as one of the most impact-making TPB's ever. Good stuff.	2001-08-26
US	43571421	R3HXMV32R8MLOX	0919359086	7577772	Cerebus, Volume 1	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Hmmmm, I'm interested ....	After repeatedly having been told I should really give Cerebus comics a try I decided to go for it and started off with this first book (which collects #1-25). I don't regret it. Although it's a little hard to get into it at first it's quite an interesting and good read once you get to (and pass) the point he finds employment with a certain Lord Julius of Palnu (about halfway through the book), not accidently also the point where continuity and follow-up stories in Cerebus comics kick in. Before that it's mostly a funny book with single-issue arcs, a spoof on &quot;warrior-comics&quot; which is a genre of comics that was very popular in the days these issues first saw print. Those issues are also enjoyfull but stand-alone, and I feel the real storylines shouldn't have kicked in any later or it might have become annoying. <br />The main idea of the stories in this volume is that the main-character Cerebus, a sarcastic wandering mercanary for hire who happens to be an aardvark, swerves around in a fantasy land. He never knows where he's going to be next week and his only things of interest are gold, peace of mind and booze, favorably to be earned in any employment he finds at the time (or just by theft). This gets him in the most awkward positions possible which he has to get out off by cleverly conning his (99% dumb-as-a lamppost) fellow characters. The dialogues in which Cerebus takes part are hilarious if you're a fan of sarcastic humor and sometimes you find yourself amazed seeing how Cerebus finds his way out off things you wouldn't have seen a solution for yourself. Big plus for Simm there because the tales NEVER get predictable.<br />Overall I'm quite enthousiastic about this volume although I do think it might not be the best one to get to know the character Cerebus. I think it's better if you read one of the later volumes first (&quot;High Society&quot; for example) and THEN come back to this book to see how it all evolved in what it came to be. Because evolve it does, just compare the drawings on the first page and the last page, and see how far story-development improves over time. Once you DO start reading this book I'd like to suggest that you especially take good notice of the characters &quot;Elrod&quot;, &quot;Jaka&quot; and &quot;Cockroach&quot;. Not only do these characters keep re-appearing in later issues, the stories starring them are also some of the best in the trade (more like &quot;phonebook&quot; really). Also take special notice of #20 called &quot;Mindgame&quot; which is hilarious due to the superb dialoguing and Simm showing off he can draw Cerebus in any position imaginable. Something he doesn't lack in at other issues either, though. In conclussion: go for it if you're looking for a cleverly written &quot;talk-comic&quot; where the action is more in the words than in the images, and stay clear of it if you're looking for a superhero comic or a comic that's all about action-filled art.	2001-08-21
US	43571421	R2HOG2U7R0EKX4	1563890291	346264886	Robin: A Hero Reborn	Books	3	13	13	N	N	For followers of the bat-mythos	This book (which collects Batman #455-457 and the 5-part Robin miniseries) is best to be read right after &quot;Lonely Place of Dying&quot; where Timothy Drake got accepted by Batman to try out to become the new Robin. Here we see how 'the boy' Timothy Drake has to grow up and evolve to rightfully become 'the Boy Wonder'.<br />It all starts off with the three part story that runs through Batman #455-457 (with Art by Norm Breyfogle, which is sufficient but nothing great) in which Tim is ordered to stay home, while Batman is out on the streets. This in order for him to become fully prepared before he gets to roam the streets someday. Batman is determined not to make the same mistake with Tim he made with Jason Todd (see &quot;Death in the Family&quot;). But once things get too hot even for Batmans feet, Tim proves his worth (this is a story with one of Batmans major villains which shall remain nameless in this review because guessing who he might be is a vital point during the storyline). Storywise this is the most entertaining part of the book. After having proven his spirit is good, the Robin miniseries starts (with art by Tom Lyle, which is an improvement) with Tim getting send to Paris in order to learn more, and perfect his fighting skills. There he gets involved in a fight with a gang, which later turns out to be more than an average streetgang but instead an organisation lead by a mad man. Together with allies he met along the way he goes out to see if he can make a difference, and so his trip to Paris turns into a worldwide pursuit in which he learns a lot from the others and from himself. <br />This book is not for someone who's just out to get a nice self-contained Batman story (better get &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot;, &quot;The Long Halloween&quot; or &quot;Batman: Prey&quot; for that purpose) but it's a nice addition for people who like to keep track with the Bat-mythos. It continues right after the events that took place in &quot;Lonely Place of Dying&quot; so I'd really get that first (and if you want to know what all the hinting to 'Jason Todd' in the book is about you might wanna check out &quot;Death in the Family&quot; too, but that's optional, not a must). Given, it's not the greatest Batman-related story you'll ever read nor is it the most memorable, but it DOES make for a couple of hours of good, uncomplicated entertainment and will definately be worth your while (again, IF you're a fan of Bat-mythos).	2001-08-19
US	43571421	R2OF2RJKK4OV9S	0930289633	416948084	Batman: A Lonely Place of Dying	Books	3	25	29	N	N	A new Robin	A very welcome book for people who are into Batman-continuity. Logical, enjoyfull and doing the job as it should. A book with sufficient art (partially by &quot;Crisis'&quot; George Perez) and a nice, not overly complicated storyline.<br />Ever since the whole Jason Todd tragedy (see &quot;Death in the Family&quot;) Batman/Bruce has never quite been the same. He has been thinking more with his fists than with his brains ever since, which hasn't been an improvement to his health to say the least. Now, Two-face is back in town and he's out to get Batman, following orders from a voice on the radio which he 'knows' is just his own insane mind. Meanwhile a little boy, who mysteriously appears to know all about Bruce, Jason and Dick, confronts Dick Grayson, trying to convince him to be Robin again because 'Batman NEEDS a Robin'. Together they go on their way to help Batman, which eventually shall lead into the introduction of a new Robin.<br />This Trade-Paperback (which collects Batman #440-442 &amp; New Titans #61,62) is the story that shows us the installment of the third Robin. A very nice story but with some minor points. Firstly, with this book you have the same 'problem' as with &quot;Year One&quot; namely that you HAVE to be a follower of the Batman-mythos to appreciate and fully understand it. For someone who's looking for 'just a nice Batman-book' without wanting to need a lot of knowledge about what has gone before this is not a suitable book. For people who DO know what has gone before it's a pretty nice story, but not as well executed as &quot;Year One&quot; (or for another example &quot;The Killing Joke&quot;). So in all honesty, overall I'll have to rate it as not overly good, not bad, but nicely in the middle. If you're a follower of Batman continuity you should get this and read it AFTER &quot;Death in the Family&quot; (so get that first) for maximum enjoyment, and have some fun with it. If you're just looking for a nice self-contained Batman story go get&quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot;, &quot;The Long Halloween&quot; or &quot;Batman: Prey&quot;.	2001-08-16
US	43571421	R1SN4R292XOKD9	1563897768	335162956	Planetary Vol. 2: The Fourth Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not as good as the first collection, but close	About the story: Elijah Snow, a man with a very mysterious past, previously joined Jakita Wagner and a man only known as 'The Drummer' to be in the three-person formation that is the field-team of the 'supernatural archaeology-agency' called 'Planetary'. An agency hidden to the outside world which researches and maps the secret history of the world, the history that was kept secret to the public eye. All the expenses they make while doing so are being paid for by a person which is only known as 'The Fourth man'. Nobody knows who he/she is or what he/she looks like. In this book some mysteries that were brought up in the previous volume get worked out. For example, we get to learn of the man who was the third man in the agency before Elijah, we learn a lot more about Elijahs past, and most important, we find out who 'The Fourth Man' is. Next to that more is revealed about &quot;The Four&quot;, we get to learn members of the agency in other parts of the world (in a VERY good issue, especially for people who like 'Hellblazer') and we get a clue of how exactly the power-balance lays. Off course next to solving existing mysteries the book also throws up some new questions for us to break our heads on.<br />This book (which collects #7-12) is a very worthy successor of &quot;All over the World&quot; although I enjoyed the first book just a tad more. The issues in here are for a big part a mighty fast read and unlike book 1 there are some mysteries in here which are explained just a little too over-fantastic. Then again, the twining of different parts of the storyline is better here than it was before and the final issue in this TPB makes the most impact of all the issues in the series so far. The art is by the same artist and as good as in the previous volume. All in all it IS another good volume and the series is still at full-power. I highly suggest you get the first volume first though because otherwise I'm affraid you'll feel thrown into the deep, bigtime. I also wantto add that people who enjoy 'Hellboy' must be sure to at least try out the first volume because the simularities in the theme and atmosphere are notable and Planetary is AT LEAST as well executed.	2001-08-16
US	43571421	R3LVXNDWEUGCES	0930289331	704287989	Batman: Year One	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Great material for Batman interns	As someone who read most (almost all) of Millers works, the first thing I have to admit about this book (which collects Batman #404-407) is that this is not the best thing he ever wrote, for &quot;the un-trained eye&quot; (His &quot;Daredevil&quot; run and &quot;Dark Knight Returns were better for that purpose for example). Meaning, the things that happen in this book are great for people who've been Batman fans for a longer period of time (and I mean really good. It sheds a new light on what drives the characters), but for people who aren't that 'loyal' to Batman and who are looking for a story that's a great single story, this is not the best example. <br />About the story: It's been 12 years since Bruce Wayne's parents were killed and he left Gotham. Now the time has come for him to return to the mansion were he used to live when he was young. Soon sightings will be reported of a man in a batsuit hunting the night, beating up smalltime criminals. On the same airplane is James Gordon, a man who has accepted a job as a lieutenant on the Gotham police force. He soon learns how corrupt the force is in Gotham and what it takes to make it there. Gordon has to show what kind of man he really is. The current commissioner doesn't care about right or wrong, just if there's any profit in it for him. It's up to Gordon and Batman, without knowing they have the same goal, to 'clean up' the city.<br />Several good things need to be mentioned in my opinion: It's really great to see Batman making errors and screwing up things as that's how it should be with a newbie, to anything. Here he is not portrayed as the Batman who comes to save the day in a heartbeat, but rather as a man who is struggling to become what he is today, by falling and getting up. He's learning from his mistakes. With that it's nice to see that Miller thought of giving him his silver age suit, not the modern one he wears now. That really comes to the good of the 'feel' of the story.  What's also very good is that it's not your typical superhero book, but that the main focus is on James Gordon, who is not only the man Batman comes to report to but also a vital point in his crime-fighting carreer. Without Gordon Batman would have never succeeded for all this time, and that gets some much deserved attention here.  Over the course of the book we see the two men, Gordon and Batman, grow towards each other and starting to understand and accept that they both need each other.     A little minor point I have to make is the art by Mazzucchelli. Don't get me wrong because it's not bad. It tells the story sufficiently, is clear and expresses the mood how it should. Only when compared to his previous work on Daredevil it comes off a little bleak. Next to that my only 'complaint' (for lack of a better word) is that, like I said, it's mainly great for people who've known the character Batman for a longer period of time and now want to see how it all came to what it is today. For people who aren't that up-to-date it's a good story, but not really exceptional (better get &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot; or &quot;The Long Halloween&quot; in that case). All-in-all not a bad choice to get.	2001-08-13
US	43571421	R1D5D9T3YNX8M2	1563893126	969819683	Preacher VOL 02: Until the End of the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best volume of the series	&quot;Untill the end of the World&quot; (which collects #8-17) is in my personal opinion the best volume of the Preacher-series. It is well written, everything that happens does happen for a cause reveiled later (really good to see things fall into place and finding yourself go &quot;Oh, that's right indeed !&quot;), a little more light-hearted than the previous volume (which comes to the good of the story) and filled with bizar humor which makes it easy to keep in touch with everything that happens without getting the feeling you're reading something information-packed (because you DO get a lot to process all at once). Steve Dillons art is also elevated to a higher level and works great for the story (not saying that it didn't before, but now even more so). The action and gore are well illustrated without it taking the attention of the actual story too much. It never gets the upper hand.<br />The storyline is basically divided in four parts: In the first part (#8-10), that continues from the final issue of the previous volume, we see Jesse and Tulip trying to figure out what to do next when people from Jesse's past suddenly catch up with them. Seeing how their future-perspectives have suddenly changed 180 degrees Jesse decides it's time to tell Tulip about his youth, growing up at Angelville, and about how and why he disappeared all of a sudden out of her life 5 years ago. This is really the best part of the book (if not the best part of the whole series). It's really good to read about the sick and disturbed people Jesse had to grow up with (both for humurous means as for cruelty. You get to see ways of 'raising' a kid you seriously never thought of before), and it's good to know how this tough man wound up being a preacher (the 5 year gap between now and his disappereance is totally cleared up here).  The second part (#11,12) is about Jesse and Tulips thoughts returning to the here and now. Jesse gets a preach by a rather uncommon person which tells him to deal with it all, and so he does. Then (#13-16) follows the &quot;Hunters&quot; story-arc. Jesse and Tulip meet back up with Cassidy who's is currently living in the apartment of his deceased girlfriend. When Cassidy gets a hint of which people are to be held responsible for the girls death he, Jesse and Tulip go on their way to avenge her. A story that leads us to the house of Jesus the Sade, a decadent freak, who's good for a nice, humorfilled, but not very important storyline (what bugs me a little though is the sudden display of morals in this storyline while preacher is nothing like that for the rest. Falls a little out of place). What IS important in this storyline is that we first get to meet the underground-group &quot;The Grail&quot; and learn about their quest (which is really big in later volumes). It takes some attention to realize who is who and who is doing what and what for, but in the end it's worth it (AND neccesary to understand to get what's going on later). The book ends (#17) with an issue that is really an intro to the next book. It further explains what the Grail hopes to achieve over time and what Herr Star REALLY wants with it. Cassidy turns out to be a man of more honor than Tulip gave him credit for up till now.<br />The biggest plus of the book is Ennis' further display of his typical humor which is far more present here than in the previous volume. This makes the book a constant laugh (although the events in it aren't really that humorous) and easy to follow (seeing how A LOT that is of importance later gets laid out here). People who liked &quot;Gone to Texas&quot; will love this book because it's even better	2001-08-12
US	43571421	R3CWTRUT6047GP	1569715254	423955196	Akira, Vol. 3	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Powerfull in the end	Another fine installment in the Akira series in my opinion. The book has (yet again) less pages than the previous volume (book I - 364 pages, book II - 300 pages, book III - 280 pages of which a big segment is an even quicker read than any of the previous parts) but it doesn't fail to impress ... again.<br />After Tetsuo got Akira out of the ground at the Olympic site (in volume II) their time together doesn't last long when Tetsuo mysteriously disappears (for almost the entire book), and Kaneda and Kei take a confused and dazed Akira with them. Neo-Tokyo turns out to have changed into a battle-ground where chaos rules as a result of the Colonels 'safety measures' (last volume). Martial Law has been declared. What follows is an almost volume-wide &quot;hunt for Akira&quot; that takes place all over the ravages of neo-Tokyo in which each 'competitor' (such as the Colonel and his project-members, the government, the rebels and the mysterious Lady Miyako) has it's own reasons to get their hands on him. The rebel group even splits into two parties when it turns out there's a traitor among them. Akira himself is letting everything happen as it may. He is 'up' but not fully 'awake' yet. But it's just a matter of time before he WILL awake and become the enormous force that legends tell he is, but nobody is able to predict how long that will take. Nor does anyone know what to do when it will happen.<br />Storywise this book makes the least progress of all three volumes that are published at this point in time, which I don't neccesarilly mean to say as a bad thing. It's just that each scene gets even more exposure, more pages, than each scene has had so far (which was already big) and so you're at the end of the volume before you know it, without the story being that much further. Where Otomo used to take 10 pages for a scene in the previous volumes, he takes 20 here. The real emphasis in this book is mainly on the confrontations between the several parties of interest, which are drawn out over the better part of the pages.  However, art-wise I must say that this volume is so far the most powerfull by far, especially in the last 60 pages which left me quite speechless (and I don't have that easily). In the end it leaves us with a great cliffhanger which makes the wait for volume IV to be published not exactly easier. A volume of which I'm glad to have heard it will be 400 pages.	2001-08-10
US	43571421	R1VUIBFCKERBM8	1563892200	583628166	Vamps	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not a big story but good for a couple of days entertainment	This book, which collects the complete 6-part miniseries, is not really a big and well-built tale storywise but it IS a fun, uncomplicated road trip which has it's own take on the habits and what can and can't hurt a vampire. And unlike most of the titles in this particular genre it's NOT a T &amp; A story.<br />About the story: A group of 5 female vampires decide to turn on their male leader, the man who turned them in what they are today. Having dealed with him they appear to not really have a clue where to go next so they just head west, leaving quite a bloody trial which doesn't go unnoticed by certain people. One of them seems to have sort of an agenda of her own though. She still has some unfinished business back from when she was alive which she'd like to see get settled. It turns out some parts of that business have something to settle with her too. And there is also someone in pursuit who was thought, and hoped, gone.<br />Like I said earlier, this is not really a must-read story. Don't think it's a bad one though, because it certainly is plenty enjoyable if you're not wanting to look too deeply into it and just go along for the ride. The art is more than worth it and the dialoguing is sufficient (it wouldn't have hurt if there were some less dialogue boxes in it though). Especially people who are into lots of blood and gore will have a ball. A comic-tale like comics where eventually meant to be: to read, enjoy and stall it on a bookshelve to reread in a while.<br />PS: Once you've read this book and find it to your liking you might like to know there was also a sequal called &quot;Vamps: Hollywood &amp; Vein&quot;. It's not collected in TPB at this moment but the issues should be easy and cheap to find. People who like this book should also try &quot;Crimson&quot; by Humberto Ramos which is superior to this title.	2001-08-06
US	43571421	RV09CDQI0Y3D0	0930289609	653097957	Batman Archives, Vol. 1 (DC Archive Editions)	Books	3	26	33	N	N	Great for batman-completists	What we have here is Batman Archives volume 1.  A book that collects &quot;Detective Comic&quot;s #27-50 which include the first appereances of Batman (#27), Robin (#38) and Clayface (#40) and features a very early Joker story as well (#45). This is a Batman who is labelled 'pre-crisis' now (see &quot;Crisis on Infinite Earths&quot;) and is said to not be exactly the same Batman that's in comics in the present, a Batman who isn't affraid to use any sort of violence (including murder !) to get the job done. What we see is Batman dealing almost exclusively with common criminals in very harsh ways and acting as the avenging detective. Extravagant villains like he later faced (Pinguin, Riddler etc.) aren't really an issue here yet, despite of that single Joker story. There's some remarkably solid storytelling going on here though, especially for the day and age these stories were first published (unlike a lot of other comic-titles in that period of time which mostly were very corny). The art isn't very great and a little confusing at times (there isn't a lot of difference in facial expressions, the two expressions you see almost all the time are &quot;intrigued&quot; and &quot;shocked&quot;), but it's sufficient. In conclussion I can say that it's a very nice collection for Batman completists AND for people who like to see how it al began and how the character evolved over the (more than 60 !) years. But it isn't really neccesary reading for people who are looking for great Batman stories. In that case you're better of getting something like &quot;Batman: Gothic&quot;, &quot;Batman: Prey&quot;, &quot;The Long Halloween&quot;, &quot;Joker: Devil's Advocate&quot; or the obvious &quot;Return of the Dark Knight&quot; by Frank Miller.<br />People who DO love this trip in nostalgia will also have a good time with &quot;The Dark Knight Archives&quot;, &quot;The Greatest Joker Stories ever Told&quot;, &quot;The Greatest Batman Stories ever Told&quot; and the more recent &quot;Batman: Strange Apparitions&quot;.	2001-08-06
US	43571421	R2378NBHAHPEEZ	1569713162	673687494	Hellboy Volume 1: Seed of Destruction (Hellboy (Pocket eBook))	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Something else	First of all I'd like to advise people who are willing to get into Hellboy to start here. Besides from this being the official first story you also get easily introduced to Hellboy and what he's about here, and the drift into Hellboy-reality is very natural and gentle. Besides from that it's a very nice read as a stand-alone story. It doesn't end with something like a cliff-hanger that makes you need to buy continuing books. It's a book with a beginning and an end.<br />About the story: It's been over 35 years since Trevor Bruttenholm first found the creature that was later named &quot;Hellboy&quot;, a big red creature over 7 feet high, strong as ten men, with a tail and an artificial stone arm. Nobody knows what he is or where he came from, including himself (a thing about which you get more and more hints as time goes by, not only in this particular volume). That was at the end of World War II on the scene of an occult experiment by a Nazi group trying to grab on to probably their last chances of enpowering the Reich. Now, the present, Trevor reaches out to Hellboy, who has since gone on to work for the &quot;Bureau of Paranormal Investigation&quot;, because he desperately needs his aid. Weird extra-natural murders are taking place and it's up to Hellboy and his agency to find what kind of mystical powers are on a rampage and, even more important, who unleashed them. <br />What you have here is a title that especially people who like things like &quot;X-Files&quot; and &quot;Planetary&quot; will like a lot. It's about an agency that goes around the world to solve super-natural crimes and puzzles, but the members of the agency aren't that normal theirselves either. All this in a pretty gritty and dark atmosphere. It's very well-written, everything fits, and what also is really nice is that the creator (Mike Mignola) NEVER gave the story-writing or the art-job away in any of the following books. The creator sticks with his book and it really shows later on, when yousee how things keep clicking and keep the same atmosphere. Must-buy for Planetary and X-Files fans and alike.	2001-08-04
US	43571421	RJ12NYKSPN0VF	1563891956	111266051	The Tarantula (Sandman Mystery Theater, Book 1)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Totally different but totally good	First of all let me say that people who are looking for a title themed like Neil Gaimans Sandman, this book is not it. This title ties in a little bit every now and then but that's it for comparisation, it's a totally different ball-park, a totally different sort of comic. What this is is a very fine (non-supernatural) detective story (this particular book collects #1-4, the complete &quot;Tarantula&quot; story-arc) based around &quot;The Sandman&quot;, a revamped character from the early days of DC. The Sandman is a guy with a secret identity dressed in a John Constatine coat, an Al Capone hat, a gasmask and a gaspistol, who acts as a secret detective and tries to solve crimes his way.  <br />About the story: An anonymous kidnapper who calls himself 'The Tarantula, is on the loose and he claims his vistims rapidly. He shows to be extremely violent and not fearing any act of brutality to show he's meaning business in getting what he wants. The police are without a clue and don't know where to start. And does the Tarantula really pick his victims so randomly ? Meanwhile the commisioners daughter has taken an interest in a young man named Wesley Dodds who seems remarkably interested in the case, and there's also the mystery of the man who's going all over town wearing a gasmask and carying a gaspistol, attacking people who seem possibly related to the Tarantula.<br />Like I said, it's not a Gaiman's Sandman type of book but more of a detective book set in a time about 60 years back. While reading it you'll really get the feeling you're watching a police detective series on TV. People who enjoy titles like Sin City and possibly even Top Ten lovers (provided they don't have a problem with this book not involving characters that aren't out of the ordinary) will have a very good time with it. It's a complex story which requires some attention while reading but it's very much worth it in the end. Try it out sometimes because the fact this book was never a big hit doesn't say anything about it's quality.	2001-08-04
US	43571421	R1U8UI2EI8T7FI	1563896486	44824436	Planetary VOL 01: All Over the World and Other Stories	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Best Warren Ellis material I've read so far	I'm not one to easily over-praise something I like. I mostly look at the things I enjoy as critical as possible to come to as much of an honest opinion as possible, so that my words really mean something instead of turning into a bold statement which helps nobody. With this title however I can do nothing else but expres how much I enjoy it. It's as close to &quot;historical fiction&quot; as a mainstream 'superhero'-title is ever going to be and it's done well. And the term &quot;superhero-title&quot; isn't exactly right either because it isn't a superhero title, but the main characters ARE supernatural.<br />About the story: Elijah Snow, a mysterious man who was born on January 1st of the year 1900 encounters a woman called Jakita Wagner (who is accompagnied by another man called 'the Drummer') and she invites him to be part of a supernatural archaeologist group called 'Planetary'. She invites him to be the third member of their field-team who's goal it is to unravel the 'secret history of the world'. They try to map events in history how they REALLY took place, not how the common public was told it all happened. Elijah gets offered a salary of one million dollars a year for the rest of his life and all other professional expenses will also be taken care off by an anonymous financial aid only known as 'the fourth man', a man nobody knows. Elijah accepts and goes on his way to see things common man has never known was there.<br />The great thing bout this title is that each detail, as little as it looks at first, turns into a mystery of his own in time. Each story in each issue seems to be a self-contained story at first, but later on turns out to be just a piece of the puzzle in the 'grand scheme of things'. There's very little going on that's useless information.  What also is very nice is that the essence, the starting line if you will, of the series is reality as WE know it. It's about OUR reality (not one made up as a comic-reality), WE are 'the common public and the way things really happened occured behind OUR backs on things that are REALLY in our history (like the first man on the moon and such things). Think of it as having a little bit the mood like 'X-Files' and you'll know what I mean. <br />So finally I would like to advise this title to all people who are not strictly interested in superhero clashes but not neccesarily only into 'serious comics' either. It's a mix of the two and it's done very well with a good mixing of illustrating and text. None of the two factors is dominating, it's very well balanced and it makes for a very good experience. For me it's easily the best writing I've seen of Warren Ellis so far.	2001-08-02
US	43571421	R2SNYR2J3VI02G	1569714991	423955196	Akira, Vol. 2	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Stays hot	This volume is much like the first volume if you look at the story-telling. Unlike most comic-books where they try to stuff as much information as possible in as little as possible pages, this is the complete opposite. Each tiny detail of information is spread out over several pages which makes it an easy to follow story, you won't miss out on vital details easily, and it isn't slow anywhere thanks to the 'animated' art.<br />About the story: After the agency, under leadership of 'the Colonel' catches up with Kaneda, Kei and Tetsuo (all in vol.1) each of them is taken with them to their test-base where Tetsuo's powers are quickly increasing. When Tetsuo learns there are more numbered subjects like him he goes looking for others. That's how he learns about Akira. With this new knowlegde Tetsuo goes out to find project Akira, determined that nobody is gonna stop him from doing so. The agency turns desperate because if Tetsuo should reach Akira, there is no way of telling what is to become of the world. Meanwhile Kaneda and Kei are also on their way to stop Tetsuo, only in a more brutal way. A race against the clock begins. The first half of this collection is really a big phase were you get to wonder &quot;who is possibly enpowered and who's not&quot;. It's a very good read with enough twisting points to keep it on the edge. The second part is even better when the hunt for Tetsuo begins and we have to see who gets to Tetsuo first, or is Tetsuo himself the first to reach his goal ? We also get to meet Akira himself for the first time, which makes you look to each panel very curious to catch the first hints of what he might be capable of.<br />This second (from 6) books doesn't let you down at any point if you liked the first volume. The story stays action-packed and the style in which it is done stays the way you're accustomed to it. Fast but not revealing to much at once. For people who are interested in it, read the first volume first because reading it in order is amust. It won't be a disappointment. For people who have already read the first installment: the joy continues.	2001-08-01
US	43571421	R2BWULOZ0IAAUJ	1563897687	778428957	Crimson: Earth Angel - Tome 3	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Riding the wave	After the great first volume (&quot;Loyalty &amp; Loss&quot;) and a little less good second volume (&quot;Heaven &amp; Earth&quot;) this volume (which collects #13-18) rides the upwards tide of the wave again, it being the best volume of the series so far. It starts of with an Angel who falls from Grace and now has to learn to adjust on earth. A character that proves to be a key character along the way. Lighthearted but of importance to the story still. Alex still doesn't know exactly what all this 'Chosen One' stuff is supposed to be about but he draws his own conclussions and tries to be the boundary between humanity and Hell by keeping the killing level as low as possible. Something that not all his friends can appreciate (Joe). Alex' puberty kicks in too. Scarlet X starts her own quest to learn what she really is after hearing an unsettling revelation about her kin in the previous volume. Something which tells her she and Alex haven't met for the last time yet. On Christmas Eve Alex meets Satan for the second time who gives him something of which he thought he always wanted it (really by far the best issue of the volume, although it doesn't add much to the main story). After that Alex and Ekimus each go on their way to prepare themselves for what's thoughtto be the final confrontation with uber-vampire Lisseth.<br />I'm glad to see the serie get back to his starting quality again and people who stuck along so far will enjoy this volume very much. It's a must to read the other volumes prior to this one though, so don't use this as a starting point. If you've been here all along you'll enjoy it a lot. Take into consideration btw that the funny-level of volume I still isn't reached here. It's a good read but the story remains quite serious and the oneliners of volume 1 belong to the past.<br />Note: People who enjoy the Crimson series would do well to pick up the first &quot;Wetworks&quot; TPB. The genres and main storyline are alike and Portacio's artwork is alsovery much worth it.	2001-07-28
US	43571421	R5ATK744YDKZY	1563896478	228696532	Crimson: Heaven & Earth - Tome 2	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The plot thickens	This is truly a (good) continuation of the first Crimson TPB (&quot;Loyalty &amp; Loss&quot;). If you haven't read that get it first, or don't bother at all. Things won't make sense. This book (which collects #7-12 and the &quot;Dynamic Forces Premiere&quot; issue) starts off with sort of an interlude issue. In it Alex meets the 'Heavenly Host', also known as the group of archangels who do the Lords' bidding. They've come down to judge wether Alex should be allowed to live on (being a vampire and all) or that he has to be terminated. Help comes from a rather unexpected/surprising side. This is really the most fun issue of the trade where the cliches about angels' manners are shattered and some sick humor is going on.  After that the main story goes on it's way again and I really would like to lable this book 'the clearification-TPB' because after we first met a lot of the main-players in the first TPB, here is much explanation about the legacy's, past deeds and motives of each of them (like Lisseth, Ekimus, Scarlet X, streetcop George etc.). That AND we are told the origin of the 'Clan of the Red Hood'.  All this explaning luckily happens during the story (so it's not a collection of facts like in the beginning of th first issues) in which a lot of different parties of interest are after Alex for different reasons. Some good, some bad. It all leads to some pretty heavy confrontations and some beings show to have a great power potential (like Ekimus).<br />Like I said in the beginning, you should realize when you buy this book that it's really a must to first read the volume 1 book to make any sense of it. It's one big &quot;going deeper into already introduced characters&quot; and it won't make sense if you just dive in it without knowing what's gone before. To first buy the other volume won't be a waste of money though because it's at least as good as this one. For the people who HAVE already read the first volume, you should know that the story is a lot more serious and violent (as in &quot;big-gun-violent&quot; not so much gory) than in the first trade and now the focus is really more on the plot than on punchlines, which it has but a few. It doesn't take anything away from the fun though and if you liked the first TPB this one won't let you down.	2001-07-20
US	43571421	RCX4IUA4JPN7W	1563894041	401945023	Hitman: 10,000 Bullets	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Ennis fun	Tommy Monaghan is a Hitman with a conscience who's blessed with x-ray vision, telepathy and one hell of a skill-level. He'll shoot any meta-human you want (he doesn't take contracts on regular people because 'where's the sport in that') as long as you bring the money, AND he HAS to see the target as 'bad people'. Otherwise, no deal. In this book (which collects Hitman #4-8) the tables are turned when a mob boss from Tommy's past wants revenge and puts a price on HIS head. A hitman, who sees himself as the best in the world, called Johnny Navarone takes the job. Meanwhile Tommy himself, who doesn't suspect a thing so far, takes on a contract of his own. He's supposed to kill of a corrupt vigilante named 'Nightfist' (which is really meant as a mocking of superhero-comics) for the price of $10.000. The assignment turns out to be a set-up and Tommy gets in a world of trouble. Navarone then does something he really shouldn't have. Now IT'S PERSONAL ! From here the story turns into a kill-fest.  Finally the book concludes with #8 which is a &quot;Final Night&quot; tie-in. The guys spend a night hanging out but when they realize the sun isn't coming up, and Superman's on the news, they decide to stick together in the bar to wait for the end of the world. They pass the time by telling each other about the time they came closest to death. <br />Compared to the previous Hitman collection (the one that hasn't got a name) this one contains a lot less one-liners and a heck of a lot more action and graphic violence. Off course there ARE still one-liners and the humorlevel is up to score (it IS a Ennis title after all) but you just have to look harder for it (just LOOK at the characters, it's a blast). It's a great addition to the Hitman series and people who like the typical Ennis' humor, and don't neccesarily need a story to be too complicated will have a lot of fun with it. That's mainly what going on, action and humor and it works out very good. The one downside this book hasthough is that it relates a lot to the previous collection, so you should really get that one first or at least read it prior to this one (or you'll miss out on things here and there). But that's also a good book so that's not a waste either.	2001-07-16
US	43571421	R1PVKXLD12ZSAL	1563893142	955587501	Hitman Vol. 1: A Rage in Arkham	Books	5	13	13	N	N	More goodies by Ennis	People who are looking for a second Preacher, this is not it. This book (which collects Hitman #1-3, Demon annual #2 and Batman Chronicles #4) is the first collection of a far more uncomplicated title, but therefore not any less fun, and the writing-style of Ennis is very recognizable here (and that's a good thing). Uncomplicated humurous (great oneliners) action, that's the best way to describe it. Tommy Monaghan is a Hitman with a conscience (who works in Gotham) who is blessed with powers like X-ray vision, telepathy and a incredibly high skill-level. Powers he likes to &quot;abuse&quot; in his interaction with other people, which makes for some hilarious scenes (btw, don't be fooled by him having powers because this is definately NOT a superhero title). He is different from your regular Hitman in the fact that he only takes on contracts to assassinate meta-humans, no 'regular Joe's'. AND he must see a reason for the killing, he won't kill people who he doesn't see as 'the bad guys.'<br />A group of demons from Hell who call themselves the 'Arkanonne' want to recruit him to be their representative on earth and send out an agent to go get him. Then Tommy gets hired to kill the Joker and he can make a million bucks with it, but he'd have to go into Arkham Asylum to do so. Meanwhile Batman is keeping an eye on the case (because he is naturally interested in everything that involves the Joker) which turns out to be something a little different from what Tommy had first expected it to be.<br />Like I said, this book is not as complicated as Preacher was. It doesn't really have a continuity where you have to know everything that has gone before to know what's it's about. It is an action-packed, lighthearted read about a group of Hitmen who are close friends (well some more than other) and it's filled with typical Ennis humor and oneliners (which work very well). The artwork of McCrea also needs to be given some credit because after reading it I can't think of anyone Iwould have liked to see in his place. The scenes follow up fluently and his facial expressions are really good, a very important factor in the book. So for people who want a deep, complicated story where you need to notice everything to see what's going on, this is not the best choice for you. For people who like Ennis' sense of bizar humor, oneliners and a lot of blood-and-guts packed action this would be more than welcome. One of MY favorite series at least.	2001-07-15
US	43571421	R1FIGIJU4PZE3O	0930289552	93409299	Black Orchid	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Gaiman delivers	I don't like everything that Neil Gaiman writes but I have to say that I DO like this book.  Philip, an old classmate of Alec Holland (who became Swamp Thing later) has never had too many friends during his youth. He was considered a geek because most of his attention went to botanism in which he put almost all his time. One of the people who HAS been his friend during his young years is Susan, who he loved dearly. Once the time came that Susan disappeared out of Philips life he was heartbroken. Susan went on to marry a criminal, Carl, which got her killed, and Philip went back to his dream of trying to breed living 'flowerpeople', hybrids. Now, the present. After seven years in jail Carl, who blames Susan for his arrest, comes looking for Philip because he blames Philip for what went wrong between him and Susan . What he then finds in Philips basement is too stunning for words, Philip succeeded !  He calls his old employer Luthor about what he found (indeed, Superman's Luthor ) hoping to get in his grace again, but before Luthor is able to arrive Carl screws up and the whole basement is destroyed, and everything alive in it is dead, bar two creatures who got away. Than starts the quest of the two heavily confused escaped beings, Black Orchids, to find out what they are, who they are and where they belong. A quest which leads them through places like Arkham Asylum and even to the jungle-swamp of Swamp Thing himself. Meanwhile the hordes of Luthor are trying to track them down and there's also the matter of the man who has fallen from grace, Carl, who's also madly in pursuit.<br />This book takes superhero characters (like Batman, Swamp Thing, Batman, Poison Ivy etc.), puts them in a &quot;mature readers environment&quot;, and makes them act like deranged human beings instead of superpowered creatures. Gaiman makes them seem more 'real', more 'human' and very appropriate for an adult orientated book.  Especially people who like the Alan Moore part of Saga of the Swamp Thing will have a ball with this, guarantied. A connection you'll easily make for yourself too once you've read both books. It's really good to see Gaiman get back on a person like Jason Woodrue (who is a very small player in here), ... and who would have thought of a connection between Poison Ivy and Swamp Thing (although it seems so logical once you see it). It surely isn't neccesary to have any prior knowledge of Swamp Thing to enjoy this book, it's a fine story on it's own as well. It's just once you've read the Alan Moore parts of Swamp Thing you'll appreciate a lot of things in here a lot more. It's not for you if you're looking for superhero action. If you're looking for a well-told supernatural story about human psyches, it sure is.	2001-07-12
US	43571421	R1X14KV2XG3N4F	0446395218	348403991	Batman: Prey	Books	4	8	8	N	N	One of the best stories of the series	I easily consider this one of the best stories that ran in the &quot;Legend of the Dark Knight&quot; series (this book reprints #11-15) up till now (this one and &quot;Gothic&quot;). Batman, the hunter, becomes the hunted when the major demands him arrested. Captain Gordon is to form a special squad to do so, which shall be master-planned by psycho-analist Dr. Hugo Strange. While Strange shall try to unravel the mystery 'who is Batman' by logical psychological deduction, a street squad will do the fieldwork. Only it turns out that Dr. Strange himself isn't very sane and that he plans to reach far more than just the arrest of Batman, using whatever means neccesary. Meanwhile Batman is having a hard time to keep himself thinking straight. Something that proves to be difficult during the schemes of the mad Dr. Strange. <br />This is really a well written Batman story that will especially appeal to those who like &quot;The Killing Joke&quot;. The art looks a lot like the art of Brian Bolland and, even more importantly, the theme and atmosphere of the story are very much alike (the theme, not the plot). A dark psychological thriller. It's really good to see is that the things that happen during the story aren't just coincedences but happen for a reason, and are backed with arguments. A small example of that is that when Dr. Strange concludes that 'the man behind the mask must be a wealthy man' it's backed up with the argument &quot;The man must be wealthy since he's up all night and therefore doesn't have time to work a job in the daytime, but still has so much expensive devises&quot;. Things don't come out of thin air, like what unfortunately seems to happen in too many other books. And like this little example, everything else that happens also fits and is made to look logical. What is also a good thing is that you don't know how it's exactly gonna end untill you're at the last couple of pages. Just when you think you figured Dr. Strange's next move out, the plot twists. It isn't predictable anywhere and therefore never becomes boring. If you're looking to pick up a good Batman story besides the ones who got a lot of attention already (like &quot;Killing Joke&quot;, &quot;Dark Knight Returns&quot;, &quot;Long Halloween&quot;, &quot;Year One&quot; etc. etc.), this would certainly be a good choice.	2001-07-10
US	43571421	R10SV3S8QG70N1	1563894904	611507173	Preacher VOL 06: War in the Sun (Preacher (DC Comics))	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Pfew, it picked up again	I'm glad to admit that after the not-so-good &quot;Dixie Fried&quot; volume, this one (collecting #34-40) bounces a little back. Jesse resumes in his quest to find God and tries a whole new approach to do so. Meanwhile Starr is still looking for him, and since Starr is the new allfather of the Grail he has some new means to aid him. If that wouldn't make for a big enough confrontation there's also the matter of the Saint of Killers who's coming for Jesse to get some answers, and he isn't about to take crap from anyone who tries to stand in his way. It all leads up to a point of extra-vaganza-violence (and there's totally no exaggerating in that) where all our main-characters get separated without much of a clue to what happened to one and another. They're further from their goal than ever before ! It's the start of the long road back. Finally there's another Preacher Special collected in here in which we learn more of how Starr, The Grail, and the conspiracy within The Grail became what they are today. The goals and the amount of power and influence of the Grail really become totally clear here. Finally a Preacher Special that isn't only entertaining but also adds to the storyline.<br />It's really good to see that Ennis gets on with the story here, where he was a little off in the previous volume. It's not the best Preacher TPB but it's definately picking up. What also very much comes to the good of the book is that the dialogue between Cassidy and Jesse is back where it was before. The humor is totally back and the characters act more like themselves again. I was a little worried after &quot;Dixie Fried&quot; that maybe it was over, but Ennis puts Preacher back on the rail again here.	2001-07-09
US	43571421	RPQO28I6G9QE4	156389405X	69617634	Preacher VOL 04: Ancient History	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Not important but  a nice read nonetheless	While this volume of the Preacher Graphic Novels has nothing to do with the continuity of the title itself, it's still a pretty nice easy-reading book. Nothing special (certainly when you compare it with the rest of the Preacher books) but not a waste of time either. In here are the first three Preacher Specials, two oneshots (&quot;The Story of you-know-who&quot; and &quot;Good Old Boys&quot;) and a miniseries (&quot;Saint of Killers&quot;). In &quot;The story of you-know-who&quot; we get to see how a normal boy, who is living in less than normal circumstances, winds up becoming a disfigured boy named Arseface. This story is to me personally the best one in the book (with very nice art by Richard Case). Tragic, yet not too much, so that it doesn't get sentimental but stays bizar. &quot;Saint of Killers&quot; is the one with the most relevance to the Preacher series itself. Here it's shown how the character we now know as 'Saint of Killers' was once a mortal man and how he was pushed over the edge so that eventually he became the replacement of the current Angel of Death. While this one has the most to do with the Preacher series itself, it's a shame to know it has the least good art in the book (Steve Pugh). Not horrible, but compared to the other art it's a little bleak. Note here that people who love graphic violence will have a ball with it since it's probably THE most brutal Preacher story out there. The third part is &quot;Good Old Boys&quot;, a story about Jody and T.C. taking place between Jesse's escape and them recapturing him (see &quot;Untill the end of the World&quot;. This one is the least relevant to the Preacher series and in al honesty is just a filler. A story where the overall brutality of T.C. and Jody is displayed. Not a bad read, but not a great one either.<br />In conclussion, the volume doesn't add a thing to the series. True, we learn some 'origins' but nothing that matters happens. Apart from that it's a nice book which many people should be able to enjoy. Another good thing about this book is that everybody should be able to pick it up, no matter if you did or didn't read the other Preacher TPB's, and just enjoy the story. No knowledge of what has gone before required. Pick it up if you wanna read some more about Preacher, or if you wanna read some Preacher but don't feel like getting into the whole big story. But if you're in it for the main story of Preacher you can ignore this book without missing out on anything.	2001-07-09
US	43571421	R1QLVFJWCIXTUA	1563893274	360924016	Preacher, Vol. 3: Proud Americans	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Grail time !	This book (volume 3, which collects #18-26) picks up the tale right where the last issue in &quot;Untill the end of the World&quot; left us, with Jesse going on his way to rescue Cassidy from the Grail. Before the actual rescue operation begins we first get a little  intermission-window-tale (#18) where Jesse meets a man at the airport who tells him a story about the time when he used to know Jesse's father in Vietnam. Not really an important factor for the rest of the story, but plenty entertaining. After that (#19-24) the search for Cassidy is on and you get to read a tale that makes the intentions of both the Grail as Starr a lot clearer (which was indeed a little neccesary). Starr however is expecting Jesse and waiting to ambush him, and the Saint of Killers is also on his trail again. Starr himself isn't having an easy time either since the allfather of the Grail comes checking up on him, a sign he thinks that they suspect something about his little scheme. With that we get to meet &quot;the greatest treasure of the Grail&quot; (who isn't exactly how you expect him to, to say the least) and Jesse meets a creature who learns him more about the Genesis entity. This is really a very good part of the story and, I dare say, the most important part of the TPB for those who are following the main story. Off course it's also filled with humorous little sub-plots you would never have thought of yourself in a million years, like we're growing used to from Ennis it seems. Finally the last part of the book (#25,26) handles the origin of Cassidy. It shows how and when exactly Cassidy became what he is now, how he learned to live with it, and how come he's in America now (being an Irish bloke). This little part falls a bit out of line in the Preacher saga sometimes (makes you think of Heartland, for those who've read it) when Garth makes clear how he feels about Ireland.<br />Like I said, a lot more about the Grail and their goals becomes clear now which really comes to thegood of the series. It gets really clear what each player is in it for and what they hope to achieve. The bizar humor stays at the good level it's been for a while now, keeping the series a laugh-riot along the way of the great story. Dillons art is as good as before, clear and expressive without taking the attention of the story too much. A worthy successor after &quot;Gone to Texas&quot; and &quot;Untill the end of the World&quot;	2001-07-08
US	43571421	R2DYO2P7S40A7P	1563894289	871196333	Preacher VOL 05: Dixie Fried	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Hmmmm	In all honesty I must firstly say that this isn't exactly the best Preacher TPB of the series. The story takes itself a teensy bit TOO serious here, with TOO much pointless graphic violence, and the bizar humor is also on low-profile for the time being (which is not a good thing here). Cassidy has some good oneliners but that's pretty much it for the humorous bit in this trade. The first two issues in here are about Jesse having to face Tulip again after what he did to her in France (see &quot;Proud Americans&quot; for that). Tulip handles it in her own manner and then wents out to get a drink in the bar, where she gets to hear a disturbing confession from Cassidy. After that she meets an old friend and the rest of these issues is filled with them talking and reflecting on their lives and relationships these last couple of years. In the rest of the issues (#29-33) Jesse thinks of (and tries) a way to try and get in contact with the Genesis entity in his head (an idea he had because of what the angel in the previous volume said). When he goes to meet the person who can possibly help him with this it turns out that Cassidy and this person have a (negative) history together, and if that isn't enough there's also a group of wannabe vampires called 'Les enfants du sang' who know Cassidy from the past and need him to do something for them now (a past that is cleared up in the Preacher Special &quot;Cassidy: Blood &amp; Whiskey&quot; which is also collected in this trade). One of the positive notes that I need to share here is the return of Arseface in this trade. His goal is to avenge his father but he turns out to have another carreer-perspective ahead of him (a hysterically funny one I might add), which DOES really come to the good of the mood in this trade.  Also, the included Preacher Special about Cassidy is also good reading. Not that important for the general story, but very nice. In here the humor IS at level.<br />The story in this TPB seems nothing more than a filler, which wouldn't even need to have been so bad if the humor had been at level. But that, like I said, isn't really the case. Overall pointless violence has the upper hand without the sub-plot adding anything to Jesse's quest. Now I don't wanna make it sound like it's an awful book because it IS pretty nice reading, but for Preacher standards I consider this one of the lesser volumes.	2001-07-08
US	43571421	R3IFLMGTWL0JBD	1563891018	501118476	Batman: Venom	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Nice read but there are better Batman stories out there	Everybody knows that when a person gets addicted to hard-drugs his dealer can make him do just about anything in order to get his next fix. But what if the one who gets addicted is Batman ?! That's what this story (collecting &quot;Legends of the Dark Knight&quot;  #16-20) is about. When Batman oneday fails to get to a kidnapped child in time to save her life, due to psychical lack of strength, he accepts some strength-boosting steroid pills (like Bane's) from the girls father who engineered them, in order to never fail that way again. Only it turns out that the man is of ill will and the pills very addictive.  In the beginning Batman gets the pills for free but the supply gets thinner and thinner and once Batman is fully addicted, and his supply of pills gone, he has to start following certain orders to keep getting them. The pills have some other nasty side-effects as well. One of them being Bruce losing a big part of his humanity, and the streets of Gotham get more dangerous than ever now Batman, the one who's supposed to be the savior of the streets, is more aggresive as ever before. And that's without even mentioning his sudden lack of any morality. Batman just isn't Batman anymore and something needs to be done about his current state of being or else the future looks very bleak for Gotham.  And that's not the end of it because Batman turns out to be just a guinea-pig to test the effect of the pills, which are meant for an operation much bigger than this. <br />This book has a good and fluent story which will give most Batman fans a satisfactory read. The art is nothing spectacular but it's more than sufficient to get you through the story. However, compared to a lot of other stories collected from the early &quot;Legends of the Dark Knight&quot; series this is really pretty mediocre. The dialoguing and the motives of the characters could have been a lot better, more worked out, and most of all, more original. For example, the bad guys (mere men) wanting to rule the world , instead of having a more realistic and original goal, is pretty dusty by now. It's a real shame because the story starts very promising and full of potential, you really start to think you have something unique in your hands at one point, but turns into something we've seen so many times before halfway. It's like the writer goes on automatic pilot all of a sudden. If you don't have them already you're better off getting stories like &quot;Gothic&quot; (#6-10) and/or &quot;Prey&quot; (#11-15), and THEN this one (or if you're also open to get something that's not from the &quot;Legend of the Dark Knight&quot; series, things like 'The Killing Joke', 'The Long Halloween', 'Cataclysm', 'Dark Knight Returns' and 'Year One' are much better choices). It's like I said, it's a nice story for Batfans but it shouldn't be considered as a priority.	2001-07-06
US	43571421	R3E94ZRUARR9XN	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Getting ready for what's yet to come	An occult sekt performs a ritual meant to trap Death itself but it goes horribly wrong and instead they wind up with Death's younger brother Dream as their prisoner. For over 70 years Dream remains captured. The sekt, who's leadership along the way is passed from father (who grows old) to son, try everything they can think of to make Dream give them unbelievable powers. Dream however never speaks a word to them, waiting for his chance to break free. He has time.  When Dream finally frees himself he returns to his kingdom only to find it shattered in pieces, and he realizes what he's to do now. The start of the road back.<br />This book can in my opinion best be seen as a prequel to the actual Sandman tale, that starts in &quot;A Doll's House&quot;. It isn't really the actual story yet but more a way to get people used to the way of storytelling, some of the characters and what they are made of. What's being done mostly here is laying out some of the dots that are later to be connected. You get introduced to some (later on) vital characters, like Death, Dream, Lucifer, Cain and Abel, whose importance only will become clear later on in the Sandman tale. You learn a little about who Dream is, what his powers are and what they are based on, while he goes on his way to retrieve the items he needs to restore his powers, and later rebuild his kingdom. Items which swerved over existence ever since he was captured and stripped of them.<br />The book contains the first 8 issues of the series but is basically divided in three parts. The first part, that runs from #1-4, is about Dream being captured and about his time of imprisonment. It shows that the story is still being build-up and the art of Sam Keith in these issues is really trying itself out to see if it's suitable. It isn't really great but it's sufficient, something Keith himself later admitted.  The second part, that runs from #5-7, is about Dream in his quest to retrieve the missing items. The story is much better already, more detailed and intertwined with things to come. Especially the part where we get to witness what can be done with Dreams powers when it falls in the wrong hands (really wrong !) is a great read (especially for horror- fans). The art which is taken over by Mike Dringenberg shows to be an improvement and the 'feeling' of the book is starting to build. The third part, #8, is the part where we first get to meet Dreams older sister Death and is really an intermission issue between &quot;Preludes &amp; Nocturnes&quot; and &quot;A Doll's House&quot;. Dream has done what he was supposed to and now he doesn't have a clue where to go from here. His sisters aid is needed to put him back on the right track. Good solid art by Dringenberg and a fluent read, but not really an important issue storywise.<br />I myself consider Sandman as one (if not THE) best comicstories so far and despite my maybe not overly enthousiastic sounding tone in this review, it IS a very nice read. Not as good as the later issues/TPB's but that says more about them than about this book. &quot;Nocturnes &amp; Preludes&quot; is really a great, and probably even neccesary, introduction to the tale later to be unraveled. There are some things being explained here that shouldn't be missed for a maximum enjoyment of the tale that's coming. People who's main-interest is not superheroes but something more of a realistic/dramatic/horrorized Fantasy tale (think of things like Hellblazer and Saga of the Swamp Thing) will surely have a good time with this book, and even more with the following books after that.	2001-07-06
US	43571421	R2WZDRM45ZE5RA	1892597020	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 3: Its A Good Life (Bk. 3)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The volume nicely wrapped up	After all the events and revelations that took place in &quot;I dream of You&quot; this book is a little more at ease and is really wrapping the volume up. No new big events come into play but instead things that emerged in &quot;I Dream of You&quot; are being worked out between the characters (Moore doing a very good job at that I think). Terry Moore does some of his best 'dialogue-writing' yet in here. He's making it funny, he's making it dramatic and most of all, he makes it all logical. These characters aren't your everyday comicbook-characters. They act like REAL people would (slightly exaggerated and funnier now and then, but in essence they do).<br />  About the story:  Former events have really made a big impact on all three of our main players (Katchoo, Francine and David) and now all three of them are trying to sort their feelings, and where to go from here, out. Be it through arguments, be it through conversations, be it through acting on impulses. David is trying to convince Katchoo that despite everything that happened he never lied about his feelings for her. Meanwhile both Katchoo and Francine aren't really sure anymore which gender they love, let alone who in specific. And to make things worse Francine's former boyfriend Freddy tries to become a part of her life again.<br />For people who've read &quot;I dream of You&quot; this book will be a very welcome continuation (and ending) of the volume. You've seen how the adventure ends, now see how it all affected Katchoo, Francine and especially David (who turned out to be something more than expected at first in the previous volume). The quality you've seen in &quot;I dream of You&quot; stays at the same good level here, only there's a lot more room to expand on the relationships between the characters (meaning that as a positive thing). For people who haven't read &quot;I dream of You&quot; (collecting #1-9) I would suggest to either get &quot;I dream of You&quot; and read that first (which would be a smart thing to do in my opinion because I really think this is one of the best non-superhero books out there), or don't bother at all. Without knowledge of the events that took part in the previous volume this book (which collects #10-13, the last four issues of the volume) won't make sense at all.	2001-07-04
US	43571421	R1I0RD9S9PE95J	0785100466	409514768	Daredevil: The Man Without Fear	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Daredevil Year One	What it's about: Every Daredevil-reader knows about the accident that altered Matt Murdocks senses, and every Daredevil-reader knows that Matt later became Daredevil, but what about the time between the accident and Matt's turning superhero ? THAT's exactly what this book is about. We first see a young Matt living in New Yorks 'Hell's Kitchen' area, and how he gains his abilities. Nothing new so far. After that a lot of first meetings with essential characters take place (like Stick and Foggy Nelson) who all turn out to become major influences is Matt's life (especially Stick ). AND we get to see parts of his teenage relationship with Elektra (much referred to in the ongoing Daredevil series as of #168 and up), which I personally think is really the best part of the book. Certainly the most enhancing at least.  The book concludes with the first rising of the Kingpin in the Daredevil title, who will once become the most important villain Daredevil ever had. The writing in this Kingpin element brings back memories to good stories like Daredevil &quot;Child's Play&quot; and &quot;Born Again&quot;. <br />I'll start off by saying that I definately think this book can be enjoyed best by people who have already been reading the ongoing Daredevil series, it being really a &quot;Year One&quot; in the Daredevil history. Not saying people who haven't read Daredevil before can't enjoy it, because there isn't much going on that neccesarily requires knowledge of past events, but you'll miss out on the essence of the story. If you're looking for your first Daredevil experience you're better off getting &quot;Frank Miller visionaires vol.1 or &quot;Kevin Smith visionaires vol.1&quot;. If you don't want to go into a lot of Daredevil stories but are just looking for a nice stand-alone story with Daredevil in it, just get the superb &quot;Born Again&quot; book (Note: If you ARE willing to get into Daredevil some more, read Born Again only AFTER the &quot;Frank Miller visionaires&quot;volumes !). If you HAVE been a Daredevil reader before (or currently off course) I think this will be a welcome book to your Daredevil collection which will clearify a lot of things in the Frank Miller run and Daredevil-history. Not essential things though, but still nice things to read about.	2001-07-03
US	43571421	R1TDZCHF3N8ZTH	1563895323	794687081	Crimson: Loyalty and Loss - Tome 1	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good introduction	When Cliffhanger was first announced everybody was full of anticipation about the upcoming Madureira and Cambell projects. Many overlooked Ramos' Crimson. I must honestly admit that, although I decided to get all three titles to see for myself anyway, I was expecting the least of Ramos' title as well.  I've read al three series myself by now and it's funny but I must conclude that for me Crimson is the best series of the three.<br />The book this review is about (&quot;Loyalty &amp; Loss&quot;) collects the first 6 issues of the series. It starts of with an explanation which races currently walk the earth and how it all became what it is today through an altered version of the story of God creating the earth (a little tough to read at first but neccesary knowledge to understand what's going on later). After that we move on to the introduction of the main-character of the title, Alex Elder, getting turned into a vampire, his struggle with acceptance of his fate, and him refusing to let go of his past. And as if Alex isn't having a hard enough time already, a creature named Ekimus appears who calls him &quot;The chosen one&quot; and &quot;Destined to be the last Vampire&quot;, which confuses Alex even more than he already is (all this is pretty good reading).  After this intro (which all happens in the first 3 issues) the main story starts to unfold with #4 and from there it gets even better. We learn about different vampire clans, different categories of neck-biters, the 'Children of Judas' AND 'The order of the Red Hood' who's goal it is to extinct all blood-suckers.  It's really nice to see Alex not wanting to let go of his humanity, trying to cling on to his former life, and him developing certain powers all the time which neither he nor Ekimus thought possible.  The intention of the story is to be a drama-story in which it succeeds pretty good, but it's also nice to see that the book isn't taken TOO seriously and that it also turns out to be a funny story every now a and then with punchlines and pun (and the interaction between Alex and Scarlet X, one of the sisters of the Red Hood, is really fun). It's totally not your typical vampire book but pretty original an funny instead. The artwork by Ramos is better than any previous work I've seen of him and he does well to avoid getting TOO cartoony, leaving the artwork suitable for drama and gore (which it has plenty) but staying fun and easy for the eye as well. The 'special effects' are powerfull as well. If you are gonna get ONE Cliffhanger title I think this one is the best choice, and this book is the right place to start. In all fairness I must say that the next Crimson TPB is better but you need to read this one first to know what's going on (And like I said, it IS pretty good. Only the next one is even better).	2001-07-03
US	43571421	R3K7FZXYH8VI84	1569711712	209291927	The Big Fat Kill (Sin City, Book #3)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not the best but still pretty good	The first thing you should realize before you order &quot;The Big Fat Kill&quot; is that it's really a big pro if you read the original Sin City story, and a MUST to read &quot;A Dame to Kill For&quot; prior to this one. See, the main character in this book is Dwight, a man who tries to stay as anonymous as possible because elseways his criminal past may catch up with him. This past that he's hiding from is the story from &quot;A Dame to Kill For&quot;, so you should really get that first. It makes it a lot easier to understand a lot of why Dwight's acting the way he is.  There's also some conversation about Marv, the main character from the original story. But Marv is not a major factor in this book so reading the original story is really only a pro, not a must. <br />About the story: Oneday a girl named Shelley is being harassed in her own home by a guy named Jack, her drunk ex-boyfriend, and his friends. Dwight, who is living with Shelley 'convinces' them to leave and decides to follow them to make sure he doesn't do any more damage. Only Jack turns out to be so dumb to drive into Old Town, a place where the hookers are the law because of the pact they made with the police ('they stay off the police's back, the police stays off their backs'). Jack and his friends wind up dead, upon which they find out Jack is really a cop while examing the body. This will clearly lead to war between the cops and Old Town, leaving it a free warzone for the mob, IF the cops ever find out about Jack. Dwight thinks to have the solution to get rid of the bodies and goes on his way. But things turn out to be not that easy. What follows is an interesting story with several different parties of power and interests, violence, a lot of backstabbing, loyalty and finally an interesting plot-twist.<br />In all honesty I think the original &quot;Sin City&quot;, &quot;A Dame to Kill For&quot; and especially &quot;That Yellow Bastard&quot; are better books than this one, so if you haven't read all of those yet I think you'd rather read those first. With that I'm NOT saying this is a bad book because it isn't. In my opinion it's actually a very good tale which keeps interesting to the very end because of the different directions the story takes all the time. It's also carried by Frank Millers trademark (by now) art. This is really suitable for the story, it being a dark grimmy 'mad-cop' story, and of no less quality than you're used to if you've been a Sin City reader longer. I just don't think it's THE best Sin City story out there. Get the other ones I named first, than get this one and have yourself a good time with it.	2001-07-02
US	43571421	R10XDHM5I7SK0W	1582401683	922412364	Spawn: Angela's Hunt	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A welcome extra to the earlier Spawn issues	After writing mostly Fantasy-influenced stories with throlls, faeries and wizards which worked out good for him, Neil Gaiman takes a risk here with the further creation of a character who later turns out to be one of the most popular members of the cast of a superhero title according to many. I myself take quite some characters over her (Billy Kincaid, Violator, Jason Wynn) but as a character that's supposed to be the perfect opposite of the Hellspawn she's indeed a very satisfying new (at the time) character. Luckily most of the story stages in Heaven and Hell, places Gaiman is familiair with since he explored them many times over already and THAT shows. His writing is being aided by the art of Greg Capullo who I think  started here in showing himself to be worthy to take up drawing Spawn after McFarlane. It's obviously NOT the perfected art Capullo shows of later when he gets to draw 'Spawn' yet though, to be honest. I don't have a specific word for it but it's showing that typical &quot;Image-look' that most Image books had in their early days.<br />About the story: The Angelic warrior Angela is celebrating her 100.000th birthday in her own unique fashion when all of a sudden the Hordes of Heaven come to place her under arrest. She's being put on trial for treason and conspiring with a Hellspawn (See the events in Spawn #9 to see what happened), among other things. It soon becomes clear to most that she's being set up and her friends attempt to help her. In doing so they need to get Spawn from earth and take him to heaven un-noticed to testify for Angela, the woman who once tried to kill him.<br />  This story takes place right after #10 and is really a very good enhancement to the early days of the ongoing Spawn series.  In saying that I'm also saying that it's definately NOT for people who haven't been reading the first 10 issues of Spawn, or at least #9 and 10 where the first Spawn/Angela meeting takes place. It explains a lot about some changes Angela went through between #9 and the later issues, which aren't addressed in the Spawn series itself. So when you've been a Spawn reader you must surely get this because it will only make your experience and understanding of Angela better, because it ties up some loose ends. If you haven't you should think about getting Spawn #9 and 10 first (#9,10 + the Angela minies makes a perfectly good stand-alone story without you having to go further into Spawn afterwards), or not get Angela at all. The story won't make sense otherwise.	2001-07-01
US	43571421	R2VK752TJPY790	1563890984	666871376	Batman Adventures	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Enjoyable, not groundbreaking	This book that collects the first 6 issues of the 'Batman Adventures' series is like I said in the title of this review a very nice read, without it having a major influence on the history of the Batman character. Self-contained stories that aren't hard to keep up with, an 'easy-read' if you will. But don't think that what I'm saying here is a negative thing because you'll get your money's worth.<br />The first three issues are a window-tale. Two issues that seem to be oneshots untill they're being linked and exposed to be just a part of the whole in the third issue, which finishes the arc. Characters involved in this story are the Penguin, Catwoman and the Joker. Issues 4 and 5 are together one story which is the best in the book for me personally. This story features the Scarecrow, who seems to have found the perfect crime, and Robin (Dick Grayson) is in it too. The final issue of the book is an issue without a villain out of Batman's natural 'Rogues Gallery', but a down-to-earth detective story instead. In it Bruce is found over a murdered body in a room with only one door and loads of people on the other side of the door. Naturally Bruce is accused of murder and what follows is Bruce, with the aid of Dick, trying to figure out a way to prove his innocence from within his jail-cel. <br />If you're looking for spectacular detailed art that jumps of the pages this is not for you. The art is cartoonish, which is pretty natural since it's a cartoon-made-into-comic, sufficient and clear to tell the stories, nothing more. If you're in it for the stories just to have a good time for a while and don't neccesarilly need every story to be deep and complicated you can have some fun with it.	2001-07-01
US	43571421	R1QXCTXMX27W1H	0785105859	422939545	Spider-Man: Hobgoblin Lives	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The mystery starts a new !	Back when Amazing Spiderman #238 first came out it was the beginning of one of the most exciting Spiderman stories ever. A story that went on for 52 issues, with the reader not knowing who the Hobgoblin was, untill finally in #289 Ned Leeds was unmasked and turned out to be the Hobgoblin. At least, we readers 'knew' that Ned was the Hobgoblin, because in the Spiderman reality it was 'proven' later that Jason Macendale was the Hobgoblin. They never knew Leeds to be the Hobgoblin because Macendale just stole Leeds' gear right after Ned was murdered so he was never 'caught in the act'. Macendale later got arrested and un-masked so now everybody thinks he's the one and only Hobgoblin, and Macendale never denied it.<br />Now it's 15 years later and it's time for 'Hobgoblin lives' (brought to you by the same writer that brought you the original saga, a big plus in my opinion), a story that takes place just after the Clone Saga thing is all over and done with. It starts of with Macendale being put on public trial to be punished for the acts of crime he committed as the Hobgoblin. When he's being led away he shouts out to the representatives of the press that he ISN'T the first Hobgoblin but that the original Hobgoblin was really the late Ned Leeds ! Then the story kicks into gear. A big scale 'who is it' investigation is started again by several different groups of interest, re-opening the whole question &quot;who IS the real Hobgoblin.&quot; You find yourself in a fast-pacing story where the 'nominees-list' and the 'he-can't-be-it' list constantly alters in the eye of the reader (Sort of like when you first watched the movie 'Scream') and where you only find out who actually IS the real Hobgoblin in the very end. Meanwhile you're being taken through the story by good, clear, flowing art and excellent, storytelling, plot-twisting writing. A very good story in the Spiderman history and a more than worthy successor to the original Hobgoblin Saga.<br />Note though: When you haven't read the original Hobgoblin Saga this is a really hard story to understand and get into. The story constantly makes remarks of what happened in the original story. So if you really wanna enjoy this one you'd do best by getting the issues (or the trade) of the original Hobgoblin Saga first. After that, it's on !	2001-06-30
US	43571421	R2W6ZSRJ8ZAA7O	0446394289	317720613	Batman: Gothic	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good and solid	I personally consider the earlier stories in the &quot;Legends of the Dark Knight&quot; ongoing series the better ones, and this one (which collects #6-10) is no exception. Bruce Wayne is being plagued by a lot of nightmares about when he was a young boy lately. Each night he wakes up from a nightmare about his father to which he can relate no meaning. Meanwhile a man who calls himself 'Mr.Whisper', a man with no shadow, is rapidly killing off underworld members in brutal ways. The crime-leaders are heavily frightened and ask Batman for help, trying to make a deal. Batman refuses and tells them they're getting what they deserve. Back home he puts some things together for himself and realizes there may be a connection between Mr.Whisper and his nightmares. Because of that he decides to do some detective work after all to find out who this Mr.Whisper is. From there on a highly paranormal (which is quite extraordinary for a Batman book, but quite a trademark of Grant Morisson) story unfolds which leads Batman through memories of his days in private school and even to an eerie Austrian monastry, which he learns is the subject of an occult Austrian legend.  <br />People who are into listening to scary 'true' stories by the campfire will probably like this a lot. It's like one of those stories you heard of which you just KNEW they weren't real, but gave you the chills anyway. That's also the case here. You go through the story asking yourself if what's going on is the legend being forfilled or if there's a more down-to-earth thing going on. Grant Morisson does what he does best, he's giving clues without giving it away, keeping the reader on his toes. Klaus Jansons art is suitable for the story and especially the way he draws the architectural backgrounds deserve some credit. I don't think many people who are into Batman comics will feel disappointed after reading this.	2001-06-30
US	43571421	R2ION8IUU7NV2X	1563891328	45969474	Death: The High Cost of Living	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Worthy to be named in the same sentence with Sandman	This book is a very good attempt to isolate one of the members of the Endless (The main characters of Sandman) and tell a little more about her, while at the same time another story loose from her is also developping along the road. The credit here should be partially given to Neil Gaiman who is not incidental also the writer of Sandman, but the very clear and nicely flowing artwork of Chris Bachalo isn't exactly hurting either. Art that is perfectly suitable for a &quot;suggested to mature readers&quot; title. Focused and telling the story without taking the attention of the story itself. A thing I also need to mention to give the book the credit it deserves is that, although it obviously being heavily related to Sandman, knowledge of the Neil Gaiman success-series isn't a neccesity. You can enjoy it without that knowledge without missing out on any vital part of the storyline. For those who DID read Sandman there are some little references to the series, not essential ones, but they're fun to spot.<br />About the story:  When his mother decides to do a spring clean-up a young boy named Sexton Furnival decides he'd better go out of the house for a while. Sexton is a depressed boy who doesn't see the point in all of it that they call 'life' and wouldn't mind being dead either, a thought that has been plaguing him for a while now. He wanders around aimlessly a little untill he gets at the garbage-dump. Lost in his thoughts he gets involved in a small accident and a young girl named Didi turns up to help him. Since his jeans are ruined Didi offers him to come home with her so she can fix his jeans. Meanwhile a strange old woman called Hettie is searching for Didi and when she finds her she has a strange request. Didi decides to help her with it and takes Sexton with her for a night on the town. A time in which Sexton gets to see many other perspectives and variations of the life he thinks so boring. And a time in which he gets to think of Didi as a very strange person, mainly because she thinks she's the incarnation of Death on earth. And she doesn't seem to have to pay for anything !  Another person who calls himself the Eremite is also looking for Didi at that time, for mysterious reasons, and HE doesn't seem so friendly. And who or what exactly IS Didi ?<br />Sandman is over and we will have to live with it. But when stories like this one pop up every once in a while we have no reason for complaints. A story that stands on his own perfectly well. It's not the best story ever but it's a competitor for the sub-top, and wouldn't be a shame to many bookshelves.	2001-06-29
US	43571421	R3CN4BPMLA3KY6	9990065780	896941343	Usagi Yojimbo, Book 3: The Wanderer's Road	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The bunny with the skills	Just a little clearifying in advance (because I was getting a bit confused myself seeing a title that says &quot;Usagi Yojimbo book 3&quot; and then a subscription that says &quot;Usagi Yojimbo book 2&quot; and THEN a review that says &quot;Usagi Yojimbo book 6&quot;, this review is for volume THREE which collects #7-12 of the Fantagraphics volume).<br />Okay, let's get on with it: I think the strength in this book lies in the fact that it can be enjoyed by people in many different ages and points of interest. It has something for everyone. For some people it's a book filled with fun, easy to follow stories about a Samurai-bunny who wanders around the country and gets involved into all sorts of adventures. Some more seriously (see &quot;A Mother's Love&quot;), some more funny (See &quot;The Tea Cup&quot;). To others it's also a collection of stories with real good characterization. All the characters are portrayed as animals, but the sort of animal each character portrays is far from randomly chosen. The sort of animal is clearly chosen on the personality of that certain character, without using cliches to do so. And the interaction between the characters works really well. Both in dialogue as in 'screenfilling'. Next to that Stan Sakai has also worked in some really nice references, traditions and customs of the old eastern philosophy which will be appreciated by those who have eye for it. Stories about the honor of a clan, the tea ritual and sacred swords. Overall it's like I said a very nice read for many people. The only minor-point to it (for me at least) is that's it over before you know it. For $13 it's an awfully quick book to finish, which is partially due to it not being a very text-heavy book and also partially due to it being a little short (140 smaller-than-regular-comic-format pages. If you know the book &quot;Maus&quot; you know what format I mean). But about the story itself you're not likely to be disappointed.	2001-06-27
US	43571421	R1JU0ZRHKROKDV	1563895277	72417051	Batman: Cataclysm	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quite a slow-starter but in the end worth it	Like I said in the title of the review this book is quite a slow-starter as far as storytelling goes. You'll find yourself already through one third of the book (about 120 pages) with everything collapsing and causing trauma before the story actually starts to take shape and begins to develop. From there on it keeps getting better and better when it turns out the quake did not only wreck the city itself but hit Blackgate Prison as well (which holds some of Gothams most dangerous criminals), when the people of Gotham start having to decide to go live on instinct or to stick to their common sense, and when suddenly a mysterious figure who calls himself &quot;Quake-master&quot; claims to be responsible for the quake and starts making demands. It's also interesting to see how Batman reacts now that he has to 'fight' something that is more than just another villain but a big-scale disaster instead. Something that requires the man behind the mask to realize where his priorities lie, without turning it into another attempt to a 'dark &amp; gritty' tale which already has been overdone by now. Another thing I definately want to mention is the excellent climaxing in this book. Where in most books you find out who or what is responsible for everything that is going on halfway through the book (if not earlier), and then spend 50 pages with the good guy chasing the bad guy into an obvious end, that's not the case here. It keeps you wondering what exactly is going on untill even the last 10 pages where everything finally falls into place (and where you finally find out who &quot;The Quake-master&quot; is. And it's not who you think it is either !). In the end I have two little points of criticism. One of them being the fact that there are so many different artists who worked on the story. Off course that's logical since it's a collected cross-over which ran through several titles, but some of the art (like Scott McDaniels work) isn't really appropriate for a story with this kindof theme, where some other art (like Bill Sienkiewics' and Klaus Jansons work) really IS. The other little point is the presence of some editorial slips. This varies from spelling errors (&quot;two&quot; instead of &quot;too&quot;) to a character referring to something that couldn't have possibly just happened. But apart from those minor points it's a very nice read and a good prequel to &quot;No Man's Land&quot; which follows it.	2001-06-25
US	43571421	R2KFV24XMFNIGN	0871359677	755693208	The X-Men Versus the Avengers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Food for X-junkies	This book is mainly for people who've been longtime readers of Uncanny X-men and want to cramp their minds with some more knowledge about the history of the Uncanny. This collected four-part miniseries takes place around #200-#210 when Magneto was the Headmaster of the X-men. Oneday a little &quot;meteor&quot; falls on earth and, although nobody knows why, Magneto wants to search it out badly ... on his own. The Avengers don't trust him, because of what they've always known him to be, and want to stop him from doing so because they think no good can come from it. Meanwhile the X-men don't really know yet wether they can trust Magneto or not, but giving him the benefit of the doubt they swear to protect him because he is a fellow mutant. So there's your friction between the X-men and the Avengers. What follows is some stuff which in my imagination is only really interesting for, like I said, the Uncanny X-men history buffs. A nice read but without significance for people who aren't fully in the 'way of the X'. For those who are it's pretty good.	2001-06-24
US	43571421	R3JJCBQ6B6A3JT	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Alan Moore's best to me	I expected a lot of this Graphic Novel, but it was even better. This one really blew me of my socks.  What we get to see is an alternative timeline in which Germany actually won World War II and where England has turned into a fascist state.  People live very cautious and affraid because everything they say or do is being monitored, and they've been overly restricted by their own government. Then oneday a mystic figure appears and he rocks the city. He murders people of importance, he blows up government buildings, and nobody knows a single thing of who he is or why he does the things he does, except that he's codenamed himself V.  Meanwhile V takes a little girl under his wing who he teaches things about his history, about herself and about what is happening. But over time the government is getting closer too.  Along the story more and more is explained about who V is, about what moves V, about the real consequences the war has cost and about the value of a free will. All this is illustrated very appropriatly by David Lloyd in a bit of a cinematic style. This makes the flow of the story even better. For me personally this is the best Alan Moore Graphic Novel I've read so far and I would easily recommend it to everyone who is looking for something more than superheroes. Even when you're normally not that much into comicbooks this could very possibly still be one heck of a ride for you ...	2001-06-23
US	43571421	R3N4XRRWIR9J3W	078510786X	100183737	Ultimate Spider-Man Vol. 1: Power and Responsibility	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Spiderman as he's supposed to be nowadays	What we have here is the 'Peter Parker/Spiderman' story retold from the very beginning (the origin) only now crossed with 'Gen 13' and 'DC's Elseworlds Tales'. It's the story from the origin because you get to see all over again how Peter is in highschool, being 'tortured' because of his nerdity by people like Flash Thompson and eventually is bitten by the famous spider which turns him into Spiderman.  Secondly it's crossed with 'Gen 13' in the fact that Peter and all his &quot;friends&quot; and relatives are updated to this day and age. They wear modern clothing and they talk 'modern-kid-slang' as they do in highschools in the 21st century. Finally it's also crossed with 'DC Elseworlds Tales' because it ISN'T the story as you know it exactly. Vital AND subtile points in the story have been altered in such a degree that you never get that deja-vu feeling and which turns this story in a very enjoyable experience on it's own. Not just a re-telling. You don't grow bored easily with it and you find yourself keeping on reading, having fun noticing the more subtle differences there are with the original thing.  What also is very nice about this book is that there's no knowledge REQUIRED of the original Spiderman storyline, since it's an alternative time-line, so that newcomers to Spidey-comics can just as easily enjoy it as well. It stands very well on it's own. The only point of criticism I DO feel I have to mention is that the character Green Goblin really isn't handled well to my liking. Both in intelligence level as in outer appereance it doesn't seem right to me. Apart from that it's all good and not many people will dislike it.	2001-06-23
US	43571421	R2KCTQP2ER8GDO	0394747232	587113700	My Father Bleeds History	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Another plane of comicbooks	This is not a book I'd recommend to people who have little time on their hands already, because once you started it you keep on wanting to know what happens next. Before you know it you've been reading a lot of time away. But enough with the PR-talk, to the book now. It's the true story of the father of the writer, a survivor of the holocaust. The story is not told through constant war-scenes from beginning to end, but instead the conversations in which his father tells the writer the events that happened are also pencilled down. So you get a drawn conversation between father and son about that time mixed with scenes of the war AND mixed with scenes of what is going on in the CURRENT life of father and son, so many years after the war. This is really interesting because you not only get to see what happens during the war, which you can read in most history books as well, but you'll also get a glimpse of what the war has done with the whole character of it's victims. The story is brought metaforically (with the nazi's as cats and the jews as mice) so you can enjoy the story thoroughly without having the feeling your just reading another history book. It's all true but it makes you able to take some distance as well.  I think everyone who looks for something more in comicbooks than just superheroes and fiction will have a great time reading with this. And when you're finished you'll find yourself longing to buy Book II probably. I know I do.	2001-06-23
US	43571421	R24YFBQ2145I4A	1569714983	567099889	Akira, Vol. 1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Highly addictive	In 1992 World War III destroyed Tokyo. Now it's 2030 and Tokyo is still rebuilding itself. It's a hard and cold place where the youth flees in motorcycle-gangs. Enter Tetsuo and Kaneda, two members of the same motorcycle-gang and close friends to each other.  Oneday they're racing the Tokyo Highway when Tetsuo crashes suddenly, trying to avoid a little guy who seemed to have appeared out of nothing. Severely injured Tetsuo is taken away by what appears to be an ambulance to habilitate, and the little guy also seems to have disappeared in thin air. The only thing is, his friends can't find out in which hospital he is and they don't know how to reach him. It's as if Tetsuo vanished. Then oneday unexpected Tetsuo re-appears in military school, only somehow he changed. He's got himself got one heck of an attitude all of a sudden and Kaneda, the leader of their gang, doesn't take this well. This is the beginning of a hunt by a secret government-instance AND a mysterious underground-group for both Tetsuo and Kaneda, who they think have something they want. Along the way we get to learn more about Tetsuo and Kaneda and the relationship between them, about the weird changes they're going through, about who the strange little guy is who Tetsuo saw on the night of his accident, AND we get to learn that meanwhile the government-instance is also involved with a top-secret project code-named 'Akira'. Next to the already thrilling story you're experiencing in this book you're also treated to high-quality, almost cinematic, art which takes you rapidly and clearly through the story. The only regret you might have after reading this 360-page comic/manga-book is that it's already over and you'll find yourself desperately wanting to get the next volume to see how it continues. I know I did.	2001-06-23
US	43571421	R1B7D0MTGGGKMS	1878574892	730858999	Grendel: War Child	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It got me hooked	Grendel: War Child tells us the story of a alternative world were ONE emperor is ruler over the entire world (called) Grendel Kahn. Unfortunately the Grendel Kahn just passed away so the entire world is out for power and possession. The only one who is in the way of the wife of the passed away Grendel Kahn becoming supreme ruler is his son. So it's essential to get this son to safety away from his mother to grow up and rise the throne when he's ready for it. Only the way to safety is long and dangerous in a world where everybody is out for his head. This particular trade got me hooked on the Grendel Legacy and I can advise people who are into Fantasy/Mad Maxx/Waterworld to get this trade without a doubt. It's well worth your money both qualitywise as quantitywise (there are 10 issues in here).	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R3SQSIHYAQUPLJ	1563892618	524121401	Preacher VOL 01: Gone to Texas (Vertigo)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The beginning of something great	Collecting the first 7 issues of Preacher, probably the greatest comicstory ever next to Neil Gaimans Sandman, this one is a must-read for every self-respecting comic-reader who isn't stuck on superhero comics alone. What happens when a person gets possessed by a creature that came to birth from the forbidden lobe between a demon from Hell and an angel from Heaven. Follow Jesse as he goes on his way to confront a God who abandoned heaven with his responsibilities. This series is SF, western, action, humor, oneliners and bizarre storylines all in one put together by the great writer that is Garth Ennis (Punisher, Hitman, Hellblazer). This trade is a very welcome intro to the world of Preacher and has you meet the mainplayers Tullip, Cassidy and Jesse Custer	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R3BLWKG9VYIC9G	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Who's sane ?	Commissioner Gordon gets a real shock-surprise when oneday his doorbell rings and when his daughter, Barbara (Batgirl), opens the door she is imediately shot by the Joker. The Joker kidnaps Gordon, leaving Barbara behind in a puddle of blood, and traps him in his personal circus. He is out to prove to the world that in essence everybody can be driven as mad as he himself is without even having to push very hard. This book is a milestone in the Batman continuity and has left a legacy to every Bat storyline since. Alan Moore is, like always, very up for the job and the great artwork by Brian Bolland isn't exactly awful either. Although I think it's a bit overhyped this book it surely makes for a good read.	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R21C6Z5C0Z0TCN	1579890008	313485131	Angry Christ Comix	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Real nice for the horror/SF-fans	This is a book that collects the better stories of the immensly succesfull &quot;Cry for Dawn&quot; series by Joseph Michael Linsner, the serie that was the breakthrough for Linsner and the first Dawn-series. People who liked 'Dawn' must surely pick this up (also because the original issues are near impossible to find AND darn expensive if you do find them). I personally think it's not as good as the later six-part miniseries &quot;Dawn&quot; (later in TPB renamed as 'Lucifers halo') but that's not a negative point, it says more about the quality of the latter series. It's still very close though. <br />The stories within this trade aren't related to each other, there's no continuity. The only things they have in common is that the stories center around Dawn, the goddess of life and death. Tales with a lot of symbolism and surrealism in them. It's more a collection of loose stories which are especially suitable for the Fantasy/Horror lovers.	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R1UELBLR63KATK	1563893436	396422023	The Compleat Moonshadow	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Better reading	A very good read, especially for people who like a lot of Vertigo works (especially Neil Gaiman works). It's kind of a mixture between a Science Fiction story and a Fairy Tale for adults which takes you to many different roads and shows you the intergalactic journey of a boy who has had no contact with the outside world ever and is suddenly put out in the real world, with his only knowledge being the stories he read in his books of Orwell, Tolkien and Shakespeare. With great painted art by John J Muth (Sandman) and written by J.M. DeMatteis (Spiderman: The Child Within	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R1F3A48XLDOIL4	0930289226	50556715	Swamp Thing Vol. 1: Saga of the Swamp Thing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Something great in the making	Truly one of the best TPB's I read in a LONG time. This one reprints #21-27 of the Alan Moore run on Saga of the Swamp Thing. It starts of with one of the best issues in the trade and then after a minor backfall with #22 (it's not bad, just less than #21) it keeps on getting better and better with the coming of Abby,Jason Blood and Swamp Thing himself mixing in more. Especially the last three issues are for the fans of better horror-comics. I think every comic-reader who's mind isn't stuck on just superheroes can enjoy him/herself greatly with this one.	2001-06-21
US	43571421	R179FZ0EON0KP4	0930289366	585039785	2: Greatest Joker Stories Ever Told (DC Comics)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Surprisingly good	This is again one of those collections that proves 'old' comics (from the 40's-60's) don't neccesarilly have to be corny. The stories in this collection about the best (for me) Batman villain there is are all pretty enjoyable and some of them even very surprising as in aspects of storytelling and outcome. There some great stuff in here (also some mediocre, but can't win them all) with even some work of the great Neal Adams, the man who redefined the look of the Joker. Everyone who likes Batman comics will probably like this collection. A welcome addition to my collection at the very least.	2001-06-20
US	43571421	RRMW5A3UAB20J	0930289390	546399526	Greatest Superman Stories Ever Told	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Not the best Superman stories, but certainly not the worst	This is one of those collections that proves 'old' comics (40's-60's) don't necesarilly have to be corny. The stories told in this collection are nice stand-alone reads. Nothing spectacular but also nothing that isn't worth your time. There's even an Alan Moore story in here.  If I compare the stories in here to a lot of other stuff from &quot;those days&quot; these come of very positive in 90% of the cases and you'll get to see some fun surprising things (like a Lex Luthor WITH hair).	2001-06-20
US	43571421	R382NHJ2S1AF7J	1563890054	562788757	Animal Man, Book 1 - Animal Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The dawning of Vertigo	What we have here is a TPB that reprints one of the earliest works of Grant Morisson, now famous mostly for &quot;Invisibles&quot;. Morisson took an already existing, but underused and relatively anonimous, character that is named Animalman and he tried to make him into something more appealing to people/readers. A goal in which he succeeded reasonably well. This trade makes clear why Animalman later turned out to be suitable for the Vertigo-line, the 'feel' is already here. Overall it is a pretty good read. There are 9 issues in here with 6 of them good, 1 superb and 2 a little less. The flaw of those two issues that aren't that great is that they are both part of a multi-series cross-over DC had going at that time named &quot;Invasion&quot;. These issues are a little hard to place without reading the rest of the cross-over. The other issues are a very nice read for both people who are into superheroes as for people who are more orientated outside the superhero-scene. ONE issue named &quot;The Coyote Gospel&quot; stands out because it is THAT good. It's a great tale about an animal who everybody fears but turns out to be the only reason mankind as it is still exists. Full of methaphors and symbolism it's one of the better issues there is from the early days of Vertigo. I'd recommend this trade to people who are into Vertigo and to people who like to read about the more human side of superheroes. If you are in one of those categories you'll probably like this trade.	2001-06-18
US	43571421	R1SY8HOOZ67S92	1892597004	397982582	1: The Collected Strangers In Paradise	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Get to know Katchoo, David &amp; Francine	Although the cover of the book says &quot;volume I&quot; I really wouldn't wanna call it that. I think it could be better seen as a &quot;issue #0&quot; or a &quot;get-to-know-the-characters-special&quot; because basically that's what this is. Reading the book is fun, pretty good fun actually. You get to know the characters a little and see a teensy bit of how they are. Volume II though (which is called &quot;I dream of You&quot;) is REALLY volume I because there is where it all really starts. The story goes from there to where it is now. In THIS book &quot;The Collected&quot; you get to know who are gonna be in &quot;Strangers in Paradise&quot; but it's &quot;I dream of You&quot; where the story really begins. So don't see this book as the start of SiP that you HAVE to get but see it more as a nice addition if you like SiP from other volumes. If you miss this one you won't be missing any essential knowledge (like you would if you missed either one of the later volumes), but you should get it anyway because, like I said, it still is great fun to read.	2001-06-17
US	43571421	R1WT0LZLEKW7QJ	1892597012	391546249	Strangers In Paradise Book 2: I Dream Of You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	THIS is what I'm in comics for	The cover of this book says volume II but in reality storywise THIS is where it all starts. Where the 'real' volume I (named &quot;The Collected&quot;) gives you a brief introduction to who the main players and Terry Moore (the creator, both artist and writer) are, here is where the story as we know it today really begins. So see this as volume I and see &quot;The Collected&quot; as a big intro-special because that's basically how it is. The book starts of with some mild-mannered interaction between two of our three main-players, named Katchoo and Francine, who haven't seen each other in years after Katchoo took of all of a sudden and unexplained years ago. So it's all fun and jokes at first. But then it turns out that both girls/women have some skeletons in their closet. Problems and emotions which NEED to be worked out for their relationship to be ever as good between them as in the past. Francine turns out to be an emotional wreck and Katchoo turns out to have got herself in quite some problems in the years she was gone. And all the while this is all going on they're also involved in this sort of love-triangle with the third main player named David, who turns out to be a major factor in the story later on. And that's mainly what this first self-contained volume is all about. I think it's great and for me it was the start of what is up to this day one of my favorite series around. I think everyone who isn't too stuck on just superhero comics has a great opportunity to explore something really good in purchasing this volume. THIS is the essential book for this series. If you like it you're probably hooked. When you don't (which I can hardly imagine, but it happens) this series is not for you.	2001-06-17
US	43571421	R15S164RE293SY	0930289447	369085513	Batman: A Death in the Family	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This is why I read Batman	There are so many Batman comics out there nowadays that sometimes it's hard to pick out the good ones in the overflow that is offered. Let me be of a little help here and say that THIS one is one of those books you WANT to pick up. Why is it that nice ? Well, it's a story in which everybody (by now) knows what is gonna happen, still it takes you by surprise WHEN it actually happens and it is never boring or predictable. You don't see it coming. But &quot;the big event&quot; is certainly not the only reason why this story is good. It's also a very well written story where you get to know more about Jason Todd and what follows after Jason himself gets to know things he didn't know before. The storytelling through the art is great here and definately adds to the already good writing. Certainly one of the better Batman TPB's to pick up.	2001-06-15
US	43571421	R389HKTJE9M8RA	1563893789	976494056	True Faith	Books	4	1	2	N	N	This is something else	This is one of the earliest books Garth Ennis ever worked on (the second actually after &quot;Troubled Souls&quot;) but it already has that Ennis-twist in it for which he got so acknowledged later on in his (still going) carreer. Here you have a book that I can best describe as a typical Vertigo book, only it was written long before Vertigo was found. It already has that certain 'feel' about it. To give an impression of what you're going to read when you start this, without spoiling things for anyone, I'll just say the following. The main thing you need to know is that it's about this guy named Nigel who lives in Londen. Nigel isn't very impressed by religion to say the least and oneday he hears a guy in a bar swearing he is &quot;gonna kill God&quot;. Curious by what he heard he decides to follow the guy to his home. But then he gets caught when he's secretly reading the guys diaries and he's in a boatload of trouble now.  From there on the book is a roller-coaster of semi-sarcastic views on religion in it's most bizarre variants (Quote: &quot;God is like a clocked toilet ...&quot;) and general society (Look at Nigels parents and you'll know what I mean) with Nigel having to do and experience things under pressure that seem against everything he thinks himself. But along the way he's learning things about himself, only he doesn't realize it just yet.  I finished the book, or must I say &quot;Graphic Novel&quot; in one sit. It isn't the greatest thing I ever read but it was still very good (better than a lot of other things I read these days), also because I couldn't put it away. You just HAVE to know what happens next, and before you know you're at the end of the book. I'd advise it to people who generally like Vertigo books and especially to people who are a fan of Garth Ennis. Be warned though, it's not for anybody because some people might feel a little offended. It's not for nothing it has been banned from bookshelves for years. But see for yourself.	2001-06-14
US	43571421	R2DU5C8PMDDSL9	0878165290	180185528	Oink: Heaven's Butcher	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Orwell in the house	If you ever read books by Orwell and liked it/them, you're sure gonna like this. I would never call it a &quot;book made into comic&quot; but lets just say that it's a bit of a cross between Orwells '1984' and 'Animal Farm'. If you have never read any of those books it's no problem either because than you're still in for a great story, a modern staire on humanity. The main story is basically '1984' with a new jacket, where the characters are portrayed as animals (like in 'Animal Farm'). Same as with &quot;Maus&quot; the characters used here are symbolic. Where in Maus the Germans are portrayed as cats and the Jews as mice, here the oppressors (governments) are humans and the slaves are human/pig-crossings (which is also a great satire on humankind). When one day one of the slaves decides to stop doing exactly as he is told all Hell breaks loose when he discovers more and more how he's been lied to all his life and what the REAL world looks like. In addition to the story there is some great art in here. The whole thing is fully painted by John Mueller, also the writer, whose art reminds me a lot of Simon Bisley. And that's a good thing.	2001-06-14
