US	43575568	RL1ZVA2IC539B	0345451120	142978299	Straken (High Druid of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Circle Closes	Straken marks the end of Terry Brooks' six book connected story arc about the fall and the ultimate redemption of the Ilse Witch/Grianne Ohmsford.  But it is also the end of the stories about the Four Lands for now (his next book is a Pre-Shannara novel that will chronicle the beginning of the Great Wars and the destruction of the Old World (our world) and it may take up to nine books to tell the whole story).  But it is left off in good terms.<br /><br />The book starts off right where Tanequil left off.  Pen Ohmsford has given himself over to the Druids: Traunt Rowan and Pyson Wence, in hopes he can enter Paranor with the Darkwand and save his Aunt from the Forbidding.  But while in route to the Druid's Keep he is found out and the Darkwand is taken away.<br /><br />Meanwhile, the eleven girl Khyber Elessedil has stowed away in another airship following the Druids.  And in Paranor she breaks Pen free and he slips into the Forbidding.<br /><br />In the Forbidding, Weka Dart rescues Grianne Ohmsford from an unspeakable fate.  They travel out of the clutches of the Strakenlord.  Prompting many pitfalls along the way.  Meanwhile, Pen has discovered his budding Wishsong talent and its connection to the Darkwand.  He eventually after many pitfalls of his own finds his Aunt.<br /><br />The Federation is losing fast after the ship holding the fire weapon is damaged.  But the demon that has taken the body of Iridia Eleri is hellbent on going to Arborlon and destroying the Ellcrys.<br /><br />It all converges in the most fast-paced ending.  But in the end Grianne finally finds what she was always looking for: freedom.	2005-10-06
US	43575568	R19L717M97TNMU	0345435737	925808576	Jarka Ruus (High Druid of Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Beginning of a New Journey	At the close of the Voyage trilogy, Grianne Ohmsford had been tasked by the dying Walker Boh to continue his work and build a new Druid Council.  Well, twenty years have passed and a new Druid Council is working towards the advancement of the Four Lands.<br /><br />But in a struggle for power someone has tricked the Ard Rhys, Grianne and sent her into the Forbidding, land of the Jarka Ruus (or the banished ones in Elven).  Not knowing now what her fate is.<br /><br />Meanwhile in the Four Lands, the Druid Council has fallen into the the hands of the druid Shadea a'Ru.  She is hellbent on taking control and using her Federation ties to take control of the Four Lands themselves.<br /><br />Pen Ohmsford is home alone waiting for his parents Bek Ohmsford and Rue Meridian to return from the Eastland.  Tagwen, Grianne's most trusted aide comes looking for Bek but only find young Pen.  And on a flight to get away from the Druids after Tagwen, he meets up with the King of the Silver River who tells him that he is the only person who can save his Aunt.  He must find the tree called the Tanquil and fashion a talisman out of one of its branches.  Now young Pen is thrust onto a journey that seems impossible with only a dwarf, a hotheaded princess, a fallen druid and only his own ingenuity to save him.	2005-09-22
US	43575568	R9CZ4G99N9QVO	0345435729	798168467	Morgawr (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One Circle Closes, Another Opens	Morgawr begins with Sen Dunsiden witnessing the terrible power of the Morgawr himself.  We jump to a world away as the last remnents of the Jerle Shannara, try to repair the ship so they can make their way towards home.  But there is a new snag, the Morgawr is in Parkasia, looking for not only Walker Boh, but also Grianne Ohmsford the Ilse Witch.<br /><br />But Grianne is not herself.  Because of the power of the Sword of Shannara, she is now locked inside herself.  The truth of who and what she has become to devestating she has shut down.  Her only hope is Bek, her brother.  But can he convince everyone else that she deserves a second chance.<br /><br />So, the Voyage trilogy comes to a close, as the crew an party make their way home, haunted by the Morgawr.  And one woman may find the strength to forgive herself, even if she can never recieve redemption from the ones she has hurt.	2005-09-19
US	43575568	R2RLCN5U3DKXD	0345435745	419320069	High Druid of Shannara, Book 2: Tanequil	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Darkness Comes Swiftly In Second Book	The High Druid of Shannara trilogy is shaping up to be Terry Brooks' darkest series, yet.  Tanequil, the middle novel, picks up where Jarka Ruus left us.  It begins with PM Sen Dunsidan discovering a new weapon that an inventor has stumbled upon by accident trying to find a new way of harnessing more energy from diapson crystals.  And from there, it is all down hill.<br /><br />In the search for the Tanequil, Pen enlists the aid of Kermadec and his trolls.  They are defeated after the lost of Ahren Ellesdil.  So deeper and deeper in the Northlands they search for the Inkrim, the forest that holds the Tanequil.  With some chase scenes thrown in, Brooks keeps the action moving.  They find the Tanequil and Pen and Cinnaminson travel into the island that it rests.  Communicating with the tree Pen learns that he must give something of himself for a branch from the tree.  What he gives up is both painful and heartbreaking.  But afterwards it is all to find Grianne.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Shadea a'Ru has usurped the power in Paranor and also found Bek Ohmsford and Rue Meridian and wants to use Bek to find Pen.  She knows that the Ohmsfords have a way of winning in the end and she wants to put a stop to it.<br /><br />In the Forbidding, Grianne has been captured by a Strakenlord.  He puts her through unspeakable tortures and this is where the book takes its dark turn.  She learns that in order for her to be here something from the Forbidding has taken her place in the Four Lands, a creature that must find a way to destroy the barrier between the two demensions.  And she finds about the real reason the Strakenlord wants her.<br /><br />In the end everything seems hopeless, but it is the middle book.  And like all middle books, it answers some questions but brings up more.	2005-09-16
US	43575568	R3NSELNT6ZB8FV	0743428625	459181018	Celeste	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Gemini series starts with a BANG!	I thought that V. C. Andrews books couldn't get any weirder or any more heartbreaking.  But once again Andrew Neiderman blows that thought out of the water.  This is the most refreshing start to a series in a long time.  Celeste's story is bizarre, to say the least, but I can't help feeling it is possible.  One complaint is I really don't think it is possible or scientific to have identical twins that are different genders.  But besides that the book shines.  The mother in this book is so twisted.  First off, she hates Celeste for having the visions before Noble when they are younger.  Did she ever think, maybe just maybe, he took after the father side?  Probably not because she is so wrapped up in her own little world.  Then one tragedy leads to another and Noble dies.  Celeste takes his place really out of guilt.  She blames herself for her death, because they were fighting when it happened.  So out of this guilt, she goes along with her mothers sick and twisted plan.  Then Elliot Fletcher comes on to the scene.  He really is a jerk even before he finds out Noble is a girl.  He is a troublemaker and just bad news.  And what he does to Celeste is dispicable.  He is really your basic lowlife in the V.C. Andrews books.  Nothing good happens through this whole book (maybe the dog is good, but it ends terribly).  And just when you think that maybe it will end happily, hah, you'd be wrong.  I'm hoping that Black Cat is better in that regard, but it isn't so far (reading it now).	2005-09-01
US	43575568	R1KDN4S1D54VN7	1582345856	240526744	We're All in This Together: A Novella and Stories	Books	5	24	25	N	N	The Torch Has Been Thrown	Owen King the son of mega-selling phenomenon Stephen King shines with this collection.  His first foray into the publishing world.  The writing is like a refreshened Stephen King, like the second coming.  At times macabre but mostly very poignant.<br /><br />The novella, \\"We're All In This Together,\\" is a mostly bittersweet story.  There is comedy mixed in.  Mr. King captures the climate of the nation at the time period it takes place.  Everyone thinks they are right.  But we're all in it together and we all deal with the same problems, young or old.<br /><br />\\"Frozen Animals\\" is a short strange, narrative about a dentist.  I believe the title implies the chracters in this story are animals.  Read the story and I think you will believe the same.<br /><br />\\"Wonders\\" is a snapshot, a picture post-card of an era long gone.  The thoughts and views of the characters are where the nation was at that time.  Baseball seems to be a running theme with both King writers.  This story is a macabre and sad semi-love story.<br /><br />\\"Snake,\\" a story of a young man obsessed with crime novels is kind of strange.  He comes from a broken home and believes his father lies about everything. It is poignant and sort of ends abruptly.<br /><br />The final story \\"My Second Wife\\" is like a bad acid trip.  Very weird story of a road trip to aquire a death row inmates car.  Strange, strange, strange.<br /><br />All and all each narrative is crafted with surgical precision.  A worthy beginning to what I hope will be a thriving career.	2005-08-23
US	43575568	R3L3XVWMVYEKT1	0316603287	734205902	The Lake House	Books	5	2	6	N	N	Moving and Touching Fast Paced Sequel	The Lake House picks up a little after When the Wind Blows ends and continues with reckless abandon.  Max and the Flock are sent to live with their \\"bio\\" parents.  But they have imprinted to Frannie and Kit as their real parents.  The story moves from this starting point to an unspeakable experiment happening at another horrible place like the School called the Hospital.  Max knows what is going on but if she talks she dies.  But she does talk, of course.  The new enemy Dr. Ethan Kane is as ruthless as any of Patterson's killers.  With secret after secret being revealed the story flies.  Pun not intended.  One of the Flock sadly dies and life is spun out of control.  With a \\"didn't see it coming\\" ending, The Lake House is a fitting end to James Patterson's most endeering stories. (Maximum Ride: The Angel Experiment has nothing to do with the other books, it is a completely different story).	2005-08-06
US	43575568	R2KITBDIU8790R	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	3	3	N	N	So Fast Paced It Will Blow You Away	I was itching to read this book as soon as I got it.  But I was trying finish another book and I now have a rule: One book at a time.  But when I did start reading it, I only put it down when I went to sleep.  I was so good and I wanted to reach the ending.  Once again Koontz has hit one out of the park!  His recent books have been some his best and read him for years.  Like fine wine and cheese...well you know the rest.  Billy Willes is probably one of his or is his most enigmatic characters.  And the things Mr. Koontz takes our unlikely hero on a roller coaster ride of mammoth proportions.  It all starts in the first few chapters and doesn't let up.  It ends in a very amzingly crafted finale.  But in the end I wasn't sure if I should like Billy or despise him for things he did in the book.  But in the end you can make your own decision.  The choice is yours....	2005-06-06
US	43575568	R2L38D42BKGSQN	0525948740	864602598	The Innocent	Books	5	2	6	N	N	So Many Twists and Turns	This is only the second book I have read by Harlan Coben.  I read No Second Chance a while ago.  Once again what you think is a simple story turns out to be not so simple.  Starting with the strangely narrated prologue, we meet Matt Hunter, who in breaking up a fight is convicted of killing fellow college student.  Fast forward, it is nine years later and Matt's life is going great, he is married and expecting his first child.  Then it starts to spin out of control.  First, he recieves a digital photo on his cellphone then a video of someone who looks like his wife with another man.  Then a nun is inexplicably killed, then a former Las Vegas detective.  And all leads to Matt.  But the truth is even better than what is on the surface.  With double lives being played by some and plots of revenge by others this book keeps you guessing until the very end.  As it should.	2005-05-31
US	43575568	R3DD3O4MLJ2WVN	0399152512	901590256	Two-Dollar Bill (Stone Barrington Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Stone Is Back and Better Than Ever!	I couldn't wait to read Two-Dollar Bill, ever since I heard about it and read the summary on Amazon.  This book is so great.  There is a lot of twists and turns and a lot of people are involved and Stone is in the middle of it all.  The beginning seems normal as can be.  Stone is hired by a new client, a new client that turns out to be new nightmare.  A new love interest goes sour (what's new) and Arrington is back!  Lance is there also to start more trouble for Stone.  There is a refrence to Worst Fears Realized which is interesting and we finally meet Peter, Arrington's son.  It all leads up to a very explosive ending, but is also a very bittersweet ending also.  All and all this was a great Stone book, filled with everything you love about Stuart Woods' books in general.	2005-05-27
US	43575568	R3EE8LUEQRFUYV	0345422589	34717978	Running With the Demon (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bridging The Gap	The Word & Void trilogy (which this is the first book) is a bridge between the post-apocalyptic world of Shannara (read my review for The Sword of Shannara) and this pre-apocalyptic world.  We know it will happen by reading the Shannara books.  John Ross sees it will happen.  A world where technology reigns (which we know is how the original world ended in the Shannara books).  A world where Demons control and persuade people (we know this will happen if you have read The Elfstones of Shannara).<br /><br />The main story concerns Nest Freemark, who lives in Hopewell, Illinois, where she is a guardian of Sinnissippi Park.  She can see shadowy creatures called Feeders, who feed off of peoples souls.  Enter into this town is John Ross, a Knight of the Word.  He is like a druid of the Shannara world.  He knows that Nest is headed for a terrible end, unless he can protect her.  He also has figured out her secret.  With him is a demon.  The demon wants Nest and will use any means necessary, even manipulating a classmate to stalk her.  He also wants to cause havoc by manipulating steel workers into blowing the town sky-high.  It all culminates between a battle between good and evil.  And Nest's world will never be the same.	2005-04-26
US	43575568	R344RXJ4HZNC13	0345397673	106893307	Antrax (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	More Hints At Post-apocalypse	Antrax, the title character is a sentient machine, that controls the city of Castledown.  It is very smart and has lured the voyagers to it's awaiting maw.  It needs magic to stay alive.  After waking years after technology crumbled Antrax found a new power source: magic.  It was built as the perfect weapon and ultimate protector.  Maybe too perfect.  It has outlived its masters but must still follow its orders.  Protect Castledown at all costs.<br /><br />It is this machine that Walker knows that the strongest magic is held.  But there is no way of extruding it.  So he is seduced by the sentient being.  Meanwhile, the Ilse Witch, now revealed as Grianne Ohmsford has captured Bek who claims to be her dead brother.  He knows that the only way to save her is by using the Sword of Shannara.  His only way of escaping is Truls Rohk a strange but undaunting protector.  It all culminates with a conflict between the Ilse Witch and Walker Boh.  But a new enemy is on his way the Morgawr.	2005-04-26
US	43575568	R160HTL11ARH55	0345424646	904125746	A Knight of the Word (The Word and the Void Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	John Ross' Story Continues	A Knight of the Word begins with John Ross quiting his destiny of being a Knight.  But he is still plagued by dreams of an unpeakably horrifying future (a future that may come true, just read the Shannara books).<br /><br />We jump back to Hopewell, Illinois and back to Nest Freemark.  She is now older, in college and waiting for her shot at the Olympics as a runner.  She gets word from a strange spirit Ariel that John Ross is in danger.  So she travels to Seattle, Washington to help him.  Except he doesn't want help.  He now works for a homeless shelter and outreach program and is in love.  But his new dreams show him killing the saintly boss that he works for at the outreach program.  But Nest knows a demon can not be to far behind.  So she uses her own Word magic to smoke out the demon.  The demon's identity and the real conflicts culminate in an explosive ending.  An ending that will change both protagonists lives for good.	2005-04-26
US	43575568	RPOBOKGJ8VJBK	0345396553	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A New Beginning	This series begins twenty years after the close of the Heritage series.  Beginning with the discovery of a body that has washed up shore by the Winged Rider Hunter Predd.  The body turns out to be a lost elven prince who went on a trip across the Blue Divide many years before in search of a legendary magic.  He carries with him a strange map.  Walker Boh knows the true meaning behind this map.  He strikes a deal with the new king of the elves to start a new expidition in return for his vote for a new Druid Council.  So begins the voyage.  On the ship is Bek Rowe an orphan and a whole cast of characters.  After them is the Ilse Witch, who true identity is very predictable once you know her magic.  The only other drawback in this book is Bek's true lineage.  We know what it truly is when he uses the Sword of Shannara.  A good start to a great series.	2005-04-26
US	43575568	R38IJUR6AHEDO8	0345375580	758345402	The Elf Queen of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book 3)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Adventure Continues and the Mystery of Elves Is Revealed	The Elf Queen of Shannara continues the story started in The Scions of Shannara and continuing in The Druid of Shannara.  Even though the book tells the stories of all the scions, the main story is about Wren Ohmsford and her search for the missing Elves.  Though, there is an underlining story of Coll and the Sword of Shannara, which is very interesting.  But the main story begins with Wren getting a clue to make a fire on the western shores of the Four Lands.  She is answered by a member of the flying elves and he takes her to Morrowindl, where it is rumored that the Elves have taken up refuge.  After a perilous journey through forests crawling with demons, Wren finally makes it to Arborlon.  There it is revealed that she is not an Ohmsford but an Elessedil, a member of the royal family.  She also finds out the \\"painted\\" rocks she has are none other than the famed Elfstones.  After the truth about the demons comes to light, Wren must carry the city and its people back to the Four Lands in an ancient staff, that can only be used once.  Also in this book, Walker reanimates Paranor and also comes face-to-face with the Four Horsemen.<br /><br />This is by far the best in this sequence even though it is all one big story.	2005-04-25
US	43575568	R2JLWM92R6WWJA	0345396537	855284075	First King of Shannara	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The True Story Is Told	First King of Shannara is a prequel to the Sword of Shannara.  Even though Terry said many times he wouldn't go backwards he did with this book (and will again in 2006).  It answers questions people had about the Sword and the destruction of Paranor.  The main character is Bremen, an outcast Druid that knows that the Brona, a druid thought dead and gone from the Four Lands, is now returned as the Warlock Lord.  Is because of these views that he is an outcast.  This book unlike other Shannara books is split into sections.  \\"The Fall of Paranor\\" tells of Bremen trying to warn the Druids that the Warlock Lord is going to lay seige to the keep.  But it is to late and the keep is destroyed and all the Druids are killed save Bremen.  The second part \\"The Search for the Black Elfstone\\" continues the story with Jerle Shannara searching for the Black Elfstone so that the Warlock Lord can not use it himself.  \\"The Forging of the Sword\\" tells of Bremen asking the dead Druids for a way to destroy Brona.  He then forges the Sword, which he gives Jerle Shannara, who doesn't want the burden.  The last part \\"The Battle for the Rhenn\\" concludes the story and tells of the final fight against the Warlock Lord and his minions and the ultimate failure of Jerle Shannara.  We also meet Allanon when he is just a boy.  Bremen trains him.	2005-04-25
US	43575568	RCF5VSHV54HGX	0345386744	360063543	The Talismans of Shannara (The Heritage of Shannara, Book 4)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Final Fight For the Four Lands Begins!	The Talismans of Shannara is the conclusion to the sequence started in The Scions of Shannara and continuing in The Druid of Shannara and The Elf Queen of Shannara.  All the story threads come together.  Coll risks everything to save Par from complete madness.  Wren and the returned Elves fight against the Shadowen controlled armies of the Federation.  Walker fights the Four Horsemen.  It all culmanates at Rainbow Lake where the Scions search for the missing Wren.  Par comes face-to-face with his worst fears and the secret behind the Shadowen's power is revealed.<br /><br />It all sets up the events of the Voyage trilogy and the close of this sequence put Terry Brooks in his own league.	2005-04-25
US	43575568	R14GC6BLK1D2WY	0345370740	596230492	The Scions of Shannara (Heritage of Shannara, Book One) (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Beginning Of The Very Best Shannara Sequence	Three hundred years have passed since the druid Allanon died.  Things in the Four Lands have changed drastically.  The Federation of all the lands.  They have enslaved the dwarves and are making them work in mines again.  The Borderlands are being battled over, bloodshed evrywhere.  And the Westland is deserted, the elves have vanished.  Amidst all this the shade Allanon by way of Cogline summons the decendents of Jerle Shannara.  Among them are Par Ohmsford who has inherited the wishsong.  Wren Ohmsford a rover.  And Walker Boh, a druid in training.  Allanon gives each a task.  Par must find the Sword of Shannara.  Wren must find the elves and return them to the Four Lands.  And Walker Boh must find the Black Elfstone and restore Paranor.  Not easy tasks.  So begins the Heritage sequence.<br /><br />This book really centers around Par's search for the Sword.  With the help of his brother Coll, highlander Morgan Leah, the dwarf Steff, and Freedom Coalition leader Padamon Creel.  The Shadowen (the evil in these novels) are not to far behind.  And even after the sword is found a terrible tragedy could destroy Par forever.	2005-04-15
US	43575568	R2JZ81JA61275T	0345375599	557985230	The Druid of Shannara (The Heritage of Shannara)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Continuing The Saga And Opening The True Story	Book Two of the Heritage sequence begins with the King of the Silver River making his daughter Quickening and sending her to help Walker Boh.  Then we jump to Walker's story.  He is struggling to decide if he wants his fate or not.  Throw into this drama Morgan Leah, who is recovering from the last book.  And a unlikely \\"ally\\" Pe Ell, who is really there to kill Quickening.  The Black Elfstone is found out to be in Eldwist, the home of the King of the Silver River's brother the Stone King.  So that is where they travel.  Eldwist is of course a very old city and will seem very similar to the reader.  This is where the most refrences to our world are made and the theory of an apocalypse will really make frutation.<br /><br />People will die in this book.  People will sacrifice their lives.  But it is all for the good of the Four Lands.	2005-04-15
US	43575568	R27OZBQ8NX8KH7	0345356365	722626928	3: The Wishsong of Shannara (The Shannara Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Third Novel, Setting Up Everything Afterwards	Borrowing from a failed second Shannara novel, never published, Brooks wrote Wishsong.  Allanon is back and this time calls upon Brin Ohmsford to help him.  The Illdatch, ancient book of dark magic is sending forth the evil Mord Wraiths to take over and destroy the Four Lands.  The Eastland is being poisoned by it's evil power.  Only Brin, who has the power of the wishsong (a consequence of her father, Wil using the elfstones).  Only the wishsong can get them into the Illdatch's lair and it is the only way to destroy it.  On the journey to the Eastland also is Rone Leah, Brin's friend.  They set off leaving Brin's brother Jair behind.  But after an attack he is also on the run.  And after a warning from the King of the Silver River, he also starts a journey east hell bent on saving his sister from a fate worse than death.  Along the way with both journey's we meet new charcters like Garett Jax.  We also meet Cogline (a failed Druid) who is a center piece in the next tales and his grand daughter Kimber Boh.  And the moor cats are introduced too.  And the gnomes have a bigger part too.<br /><br />Really this book is about family and the power a bond between sibling can achieve.  Brin and Jair are really the centerpiece and their love is the most powerful magic of all.  For a interesting epilogue to Wishsong read \\"Indomitable\\" which is in the Legends II collection.	2005-04-14
US	43575568	R3C09RJ5XDLDUL	0345285549	238137791	The Elfstones of Shannara (Shannara, No. 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Best of All The Shannara Books, In My Opinion	A little known fact that some may not know is that Elfstones may have never been.  After the success of Sword, Del Rey told Terry Brooks to start on a sequel to Sword, even though he never had intentions on doing so (and look where he has taken us since).  So he set about doing just that.  But he didn't write Elfstones.  He wrote a completely different novel.  It had no Ohmsfords in it and was about Menion Leah's grandson.  It concerned him and a young woman whose magic was singing, like a siren (which he later borrowed from to write Wishsong).  After finishing it and sending it to Del Rey, he waited.  It was sent back and Lester Del Rey said it was horrid and start over.  So he did and he wrote Elfstones.<br /><br />What he wrote, in my mind set him apart from Tolkien and a completely different story than Sword.  Once again he picked up with the Ohmsfords.  The Ellcrys, the tree that the Elves made thousands of years before is dying.  And with her is the ability to keep the barrier between the Four Lands and The Forbidding still strong.  Without the barrier the demons (who were pushed into the Forbidding years ago by the elves) will begin to issue their dominance on the world.  So the druid Allanon summons Wil Ohmsford to first help him convince the elfgirl Amberle to take a seed from the Ellcrys to the Bloodfire.  He then must protect her on this perilous journey with only the Elfstones to protect her and him.  Elfstones that he can barely use.  Tailing them is The Reaper a most feared demon.<br /><br />The aspects I like in this book are even though he is an Ohmsford, Wil can barely use the magic that Allanon gives him.  We also meet the Rovers for the first time.  They become very important in later books.  Eretria is one of Brooks' most endearing characters.  The battle between Allanon and the Dagda Moor is probably one of the best battle scenes in all his books (and the one that would look the best on screen, if it is ever a movie).  And even though the ending is very heart-wrenching and leaves you kind of blah, but it sets up Wishsong, to me this is his best Shannara book.ding is very heart-wrenching and leaves you kind of blah, but it sets up Wishsong, to me this is his best Shannara book.          <br /> <br />	2005-04-14
US	43575568	R3NIFPRC4BZG7N	0345460782	512589740	The Greenstone Grail	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Beginning To What Seems Like A Stellar Series	The Greenstone Grail is book one of The Sangreal Trilogy.  The trilogy is set up right away by the tale of Nathan Ward.  He is a smart lad who has strange dreams of another world: Eos.  Eos is in big trouble.  Years of magic use have contaminated the world.  In a dream he pulls into our world, Eric.  He is a very comical character.  Nathan also has dreams of a cup.  A cup that has mysteriously returned to England.  The Grimthorn Grail as it is called in our world is shrouded in mystery and legends say it is the Holy Grail.  But it's power is not this world and belongs to Eos.  It along with a sword and a crown are the three items that can save that other world from destruction.<br /><br />Throw in an underlining plot of a murderess water spirit and a bumbling police investigator and you have the makings of a great English fantasy trilogy.  There is also magic in the form of a witch and a old man named Bartlemy.  He takes Annie, Nathan's mother in when she is running away from unseen enemies in the prologue.  These enemies are discribed in detail later in the novel.  All and all this book is a building on a fantasy genre that has instances of Arthurian legends.  And I can't wait untill The Traitor's Sword (Book Two) is released in the U.S.	2005-04-14
US	43575568	RFKBN4DX1TYSB	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	5	11	23	N	N	Stop Dogging "The Sword of Shannara" and Terry Brooks	I have read most the reviews of this book and have had enough.  I believe all of you people who have given this a bad review need a wake-up call.  The Sword of Shannara has much in common with LOTR, believe me I can see it.  But what fantasy series doesn't owe it's concepts to Tolkien and LOTR.  If you know some tell me.  If it is about a quest against evil it is a book borrowing Tolkien's concepts.<br /><br />Some of you may not know this (or may not care and blindly review this book before knowing the whole story) but Terry Brooks didn't set out to write fantasy.  It was just what the end product came to be.  He wanted to write a story about a family (the Ohmsfords) and their trials.  So he merged Tolkien's concepts with his own family story concepts and came back with The Sword of Shannara.  The whole series is about this family.  Yes, it is set in a world peopled with Tolkienesque races but doesn't anyone care to look at the bigger picture.<br /><br />As many of the \\"real\\" fans may know The Four Lands is our world.  It is our world after a great holocaust, a great apocalypse (read Word & Void for a big clue and The Druid of Shannara has many refrences to our world).  That's right, in essence the Shannara books are post apocalyptic tales.  But maybe all of you have missed that, hmm.  You want a big clue, when you read Antrax (The Voyage of Jerle Shannara, Book Two), there is the biggest clue of technology.  Even in this book there is a part when Shea and his group fight a creature and they are surrounded by metal structures.  If this was a dark ages type setting there would be no metal structures.  They wouldn't have the techonology to build with metal.  But maybe you overlooked that.  All this will become even more apparent next year when the first in a new trilogy begins to fill the gaps between Word & Void and Shannara.  Was LOTR a post apocalyptic story (I don't think so).<br /><br />Another thing, Tolkien was not original.  His races and all of his concepts were borrowed from different cultures.  Elf is a German legend.  Dwarves are Viking lore.  And LOTR wasn't even the story he wanted to write.  He started writing The Silmarillion first.  LOTR was a story he wrote so that England would have their own legends, their own lore.  And the books went unnoticed for decades until some hippie in the sixties picked up the book.  Tolkien is the grandfather of modern fantasy but he is not God.<br /><br />Now, on to the subject of parallels.  Some have compared Shea and Flick to Frodo and Sam.  Wrong.  For one thing Shea isn't even a Ohmsford and he is a halfling (part elf).  Flick is human even though his stature may say otherwise.  Allanon is nothing like Gandalf.  If he gets killed he isn't coming back.  Also he isn't as all powerful as Gandalf.  Magic actually has consequences in this world.  And he isn't old looking, he is quite young looking given his age.  Menion is as little like Aragorn as apples are to oranges.  For one thing he isn't that brave.  Hendel is like Gimli, you guys get that one.  But what Dwarf isn't, they are all the same.  The Skull Bearers are not really like anything in my opinion.  They fly and there are a lot of them.  The Warlock Lord is very different then Sauron because he is not just a presense, he is very, very real.  One reviewer made some comment as to say that he needs the sword to become whole again.  Obviously you didn't read the book that well.  He wants the sword so he can destroy it, knowing it is the only thing that can destroy him.  In LOTR the One Ring gives Sauron his power and he wants it so he can be whole.  Completely different, or maybe you missed that.<br /><br />Lastly, Terry Brooks' writing is not sloppy and a lot better than some authors.  He isn't long winded and gets to the point.  If I want essays I'll read Shakepeare or I'll read Dickens.  No, I want a story.  Not a preachy soapbox (Sword of Truth series) and not a long dragged out series that never ends (The Wheel of Timeseries).  Each new book is a new adventure and not the same as everything before.  So there I have said my peace and am done with it.  You people can go on reading this book as a Tolkien rip off or read as its own book and on its own merit.he Wheel of Time series).  Each new book is a new adventure and not the same as everything before.  So there I have said my peace and am done with it.  You people can go on reading this book as a Tolkien rip off or read as its own book and on its own merit.         <br /> <br />	2005-04-08
US	43575568	R25PYELKN1UQJO	0316710628	264333582	Honeymoon	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Probably His Best Book In A Long Time	I finished 'Honeymoon' a couple days ago (advance copy).  I think it may be one of his best books in a long time.  Without going into too much of the book's plot, I believe it is also his most fast-paced.  Nora Sinclair is one of the most intriguing characters Patterson has ever written.  Granted some of the concepts have been done before, it can still hold its own.  The beginning is very good, with a big shocker right off the bat.  After that, just when you think you have it figured out, you don't!  Don't even try!  It is one twist on top of another.  That is the way a thriller should be.  Even when you get to the end (of which, is no-holds-bar suspense), you still will have nothing figured out.  The moniker on the book is correct: 'Don't tell anyone the ending' and definitely 'Don't tell anyone the beginning either.'	2005-02-14
US	43575568	R2684F5S2YSKJO	0316710571	147952033	Sam's Letters to Jennifer	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Great Story, Patterson Does It Again	Sam's Letters to Jennifer is one of those stories where you laugh, you cry, you make a fool of yourself.  Jennifer is probably one of Patterson's most likable characters.  Even though, there were times when the book kind of reminded me of Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas (very few), I was pleasantly suprised.  It has a very happy and at the same time very heartbreaking ending.  Their is a great mystery and it keeps you guessing until the very end.  All in all it is very vintage Patterson.  Fast paced and great story.	2005-02-11
US	43575568	R2J6SBW0QKORK6	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Lots of Twists and Turns but Quite Predictable	LIFE EXPECTANCY stands as a book with many a symbolisms.  The title itself is symbolism.  Life expectancy is the rate at which statistics are made on our lives.  In the end though fate holds us.  Jimmy is a very indearing character just as Odd Thomas was (ODD THOMAS, 2003-Read it).  Unlike Odd though Jimmy is kind of thrust into his dilemmas.  I believe this is one Dean's best books narratively.  The recent turn to first-person gives a new resenation to his books which is great.  It was a big departure from his last book THE TAKING.  The only reason I didn't award five stars was because the book is kind of predictable in places.  Foreshadowing does this novel in some areas an injustice.  The plot was quite thick towards the end and the ending was very gratifying a circular.  When you read the book you will notice the pages fly!  You won't be able to put it down.	2004-12-24
US	43575568	R1WTUOTDLO7V6L	0399152202	118205425	The Prince of Beverly Hills	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Break From Barrington-Pays Off!	I started reading Stuart Woods a couple of years ago.  The first books I read were the Holly Barker novels.  Then I got into the Stone Barrington books.  \\"The Prince of Beverly Hills\\" is the first stand-alone novel I have read by Woods.  This books intrigued me because it takes place in a time period that is shrouded in high glamour.  Some of the mystique is rubbed away with this book but not all of it.  Rick is one of Woods' best characters, a Stone Barrington of the past, almost.  I can't wait till the next Barrington novel but this was a good break.  Fast paced and exciting as always.	2004-11-15
US	43575568	RUU61SR7PMJ62	0345440676	549569088	The Charnel Prince (The Kingdoms of Thorn and Bone, Book 2)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	More action than first and story takes more shape	The Charnel Prince is better than the first book The Briar King (Del Rey, 2003) because it has more action.  I believe also the story takes more of a shape.  Anne becomes a bigger character and Aspar isn't changing.  The biggest shockers came with Murielle's story and Leof's story.  I liked Leof and what happens to him is horrible.  The Praifec Hespero should die soon or I will be very upset.  Finding out the Briar King may not be all that bad is a big story twist to.  All in all it is a good book, slow in the beginning, picks up pace and than slows down a little again.  I highly recommend it.	2004-10-28
US	43575568	RKX2DU4TZ6QMT	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	4	3	9	N	N	All of you guys missed the point!	All of the people who have reviewed this before me are missing the point and message of the book.  And if you haven't got it yet, you won't and I'm not telling you.  I know that Dean's latest books have been filled to the brim with many, many words.  But this shouldn't take away the overall concept and meaning of the book.  If you don't get it, maybe you have no meaning in your life or haven't taken a good look around this world.  Open your eyes and then maybe you will get what this book is really about.  It is not just a story it has a deeper message.  Some other comments some have made.  Dean is not a horror writer, he has never claimed to be or ever will.  He writes thrillers or suspense novels.  Horror entails something of the macabre, something supernatural.  Of all his books, off the top of my head, I can think of maybe five that fit that description, perhaps six.  He is not Stephen King, so I wish people would stop comparing the two.  They are both in different spectrums.  Dean's books are thought provoking and some chills.  Stephen's books are suppose to scare you and sometimes, yes, make you think.  They both set out to do different things.  Read the book again and maybe you will get it.	2004-08-31
US	43575568	R3VND09VY6HO02	0345433327	437074957	Black Creek Crossing	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Starts Slow, Ends Good But Still Falls Short	I thought maybe, when I picked up this book, that John Saul might be able to break away from his mold.  But as usaul this book is as formulated as all his others.  Abandoned house, small town with dark secrets, outcast teens, and etc.  It seems redundant to read the same book over and over, with just small changes.  The ending was pretty gruesome but predictable.  It was all pretty much predictable.  I like John Saul's books, but ever since The Presence, they have been so overly predictable.	2004-04-15
