US	43627228	RQI8QTG9D58BY	0688174590	81421806	Kisscut: A Novel	Books	2	4	8	N	N	A Disapointment	After enjoying Blindsighted I was looking forward to Karin Slaughter's new book. It turned out to be a huge disappointment to me and the title did not seem really relevant to the plot. If you had not read her previous book you would have difficulty with the characters in this one, especialy Lena, since it takes up where the other one left off. I could not totally recall what had happened to her previously, which caused her such focused distress in this book. Sara and Jeff seemed to be inept in their fields and, again, we were supposed to remember what had gone before.Since this book was assumed to be dealing with child abuse and kiddie porn it barely skimmed the surface of this heinous subject and seemed to be less focused on what the real object of the plot was and more focused on trivialities.The adult characters all seemed child-like and there wasn't really one likable person in this book.It all led to a very fragmented ending which rather summecd up what was wondered all along in a very disjointed manner. The ending led me to believe that there is yet another Sara,Jeff,et al in the offing,which will be a continuation of this. One only hopes that they will get their many problems resolved before then.	2002-10-05
US	43627228	R2OY1HZDQA0NC1	0743446259	454993148	Whispers and Lies: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Puzzling Suspense Story	This book is an enigma from the beginning. Nothing seems to be as it appears and you are left wondering are the good people evil; are the evil people good? Is Terry Painter,the protagonist really being threatened or drugged ,or is it all in her imagination ? Is Allison, her tenant, really a sweet woman or is she there to wreak havoc on Terry? The story moves along at a fast pace,albeit dragging periodically.  The character development is good, but also contradictory in the portrayal of the various characters as the story develops.It is suspenseful, but often unbelievably so in some of the various events. The whole story leads up to a totally twisted, perhaps surprise, ending, which led me to rethink the whole book and wonder if the clues were there all along. Although well written, this is not one of Joy Fielding's better books.	2002-09-20
US	43627228	R33JRE4R8JWGOW	0743446259	454993148	Whispers and Lies: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Puzzling Suspense Story	This book is an enigma from the beginning. Nothing seems to be as it appears and you are left wondering are the good people evil; are the evil people good? Is Terry Painter,the protagonist really being threatened or drugged ,or is it all in her imagination ? Is Allison, her tenant, really a sweet woman or is she there to wreak havoc on Terry? The story moves along at a fast pace,albeit dragging occasionally with triteness..  The character development is good, but also contradictory in the portrayal of the various characters as the story develops.It is suspenseful, but often unbelievably so in some of the various events. The whole story leads up to a totally twisted, perhaps surprise, ending, which led me to rethink the whole book and wonder if the clues were there all along. Although well written, this is not one of Joy Fielding's better books.	2002-09-20
US	43627228	R24J98KV3TYACX	0688145906	204036599	The Middle Ages	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Winner!	If you liked Crossing Brooklyn Ferry and Lily Beach you will also like Jennie Fields' latest. It is so well written, as are all of her books, with excellent character development. You can almost become as one with the protagonist, Jane Larsen, feeling her experiences as your own. She is a fortiesh woman, with twin teen age daughters, facing life as an architect in her brave new world, alone. Torn between an old love and a new, she experiences the swings of emotions many of us have often felt. The use of emails between Jane and her old love, Jack, is cleverly incorporated into the plot, leaving you wondering where this all will lead. The story moves smoothly along, and although the ending is not decisive, you know that ultimately things will work out as you had hoped all along. This is a wonderful read and I always look forward to a new Jennie Fields book.	2002-09-18
US	43627228	R33MUUG5JPS4OQ	1551669064	782319997	Grace Notes	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Another Winner For Charlotte Vale Allen	The arrival of a new Charlotte Vale Allen book is always a treat! One following so close on the heels of Parting Gifts makes it a double treat. One cannot get too many of her books and this is another one that is a joy to read. Grace Notes takes us into the 21st Century with computers,the internet and emails playing the major role in this book.I will not reiterate the story line as doing so would only replicate what has preceded this.I will only add that she deals with both rheumatoid arthritis and spousal abuse with great knowledge. Ms. Allen's talent with character development is unsurpassed and she more than excells in this book. Grace Loring,her protagonist,is so real she almost leaves the book and joins you. Her brother,Gus;her daughter,Nicky;her dear friend,Vinnie; even Dolly and Lucia,her salaried help,are so totally dimensional it is difficult to see them as fictional characters. The only shadowy character is Stephanie Baine,but since she is manifested on email - a cyber person - she remains one dimensional. Only close to the end is she developed fully. Ms. Allen has written another fast-paced book that is highly readable. It builds in suspense to an exciting and unexpected conclusion. It is a great book,a great read, and she has done it again! After reading this book you may never fully trust your emails.	2002-05-18
US	43627228	R1H6U0ZTTDNMBL	0385336187	700164567	Warning Signs	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This is a Warning - You Must Read This!	Being a Steven White aficionado,I think this is his best book ever! I am sure his next book will probably top this,but it will be difficult. This has such a tight,fast-moving story line with several sub-plots that never interfere with the whole,just add to it. In spite of the many characters, you never seem to lose track of exactly who each one of them is. In so many books they all seem to become muddled,so you forget what part each plays. Not so with this book. The plot is very complicated and twisted. It leaves you wondering if there will ever be a way out of the horrendously exciting turn of events that arises. As always, Alan Gregory works closely with the police to a successful conclusion,albeit a tragic one. The addition of baby Grace to his family is a welcome one. I had initially thought it might be a distraction,but it works for the better. This is a must read book!	2002-05-07
US	43627228	R39S8HKAOV470	0525946446	769466547	Pen Pals	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Typical Olivia Goldsmith	This book is another in the genre of Olivia Goldsmith;woman gets screwed by man;woman gets her revenge. She did considerable research on the status of womens' prisons and the women incarcerated there. Much of the book dealt with the privatization of prisons and the resulting dehumanization of prisoners. This is such a well written,albeit,somehow unbelievable book.The focus is on six prisoners:Jennifer,Movita, Theresa,Cher,Suki,Maggie,and Warden Gwen Harding. Each chapter deals with a specific woman which all blends into the whole of the book. Jennifer is the main character,taking the fall for her Wall Street bosses. Feeling above the rest,she soon realizes she has been badly used and her superior attitude takes a dive, resulting in joining forces with the others. From here on it becomes almost a fantasy,but a very readable one nontheless. The character development is excellent,considering the diverse backgrounds of each of the women.You know each very well. This is a humerous book in spite of the serious subject matter. Olivia Goldsmith can make you smile even in a prison story. In spite of the inconceivable ending it is a good read.	2002-05-02
US	43627228	R2MK0PXKALE99Z	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Another Winner	If you like Spenser you will love this book! He's back and at it again with his long-time love,Susan,and Hawk,who plays a large roll in this book. It's worth reading just for the clever repartee between Spenser and Hawk. Nathan Smith,a millionaire,is murdered and his dumber than dumb wife,Mary, is suspected of killing him. Her lawyer,Rita,hires Spenser to investigate,along with the police. What follows is a cast of characters who all seem to die after Spenser talks to them. The development of each of these is so well done,as always. Unless you read this book in one sitting it is hard to remember who is who and on pp.244 when Spenser is telling Susan about the case she replies \\"You're giving me a headache.\\" Exactly!! This does not deter from the book as it all falls nicely in place,as do all of Robert Parker's books. Spenser is the consummate Renaissance man,discussing the advantages of chopped chives in egg salad with Susan, to breaking a man's nose in a parking garage. It is hard to resolve the fact that this is a detective novel with many murders,as it often reads like something out of Comedy Central. I loved this book;I love Spenser; I love Hawk,Susan, and even Pearl,the dog. Robert Parker's talent for witty conversation between his characters is unsurpassed,as is his ability to write an exciting novel. I always look forward to his next book. He never lets us down	2002-03-28
US	43627228	RT3PMAN5O8920	0553802186	333134566	Safe Harbor	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Safe Book	This is the story of sisters,Dana and  Lily,their love for each other,their love of the sea. As young women, when giving sailing lessons, they take on eight year old Sam,a poor boy. When Sam nearly drowns and is saved by them he vows to protect them forever. Dana becomes a renowned artist of the sea.Lily marries Mark,producing Quinn and Allie. The tragic sailing death of Lily and Mark forces Dana to leave France and her lover. She returns to Hubbard's Point, Connecticut to care for Quinn and Allie. What follows is the tale of Dana's efforts to be a mother to Allie and the rebellous twelve year old Quinn who is convinced her parents' death was not an accident. Sam is now an oceanographer. He reenters Dana's life at a time when she desperately needs help,fullfilling his boyhood promise to care for her,loving her at the same time.However,the story,although very well written,tends to become tedious and repetitious. The character development is excellent;each person is fully dimensional. It is typical Luanne Rice,a sweet story of family conflicts,love, tragedies, and near tragedies with a happy ending ,following a near disaster. It is a pleasant read,but I think a lesser Luanne Rice book. If you know nothing about the sea or sailing you will become familiar with them just by reading this,as the entire story revolves around both.	2002-03-14
US	43627228	R24A9G5BTLZ4IJ	0399146296	494304563	Sarah's Window: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Lovely Story	Janice Graham has written a wonderfully touching book that will leave you both happy and,momentarily, sad. It is the story of Sarah Bryden,an artist and free spirit, living in a small Kansas town. A physicist,John Wilde,and his wife,Susan,move there to attempt to find a quiet place to raise their difficult adopted baby, Will. An accident leaves Susan unable to care for Will,whom she could never accept from the beginning. Sarah takes charge of Will,giving her a happiness that had eluded her for years. In turn,Will started developing in an unexpected way. John and Sarah soon become more than attracted to each other,falling deeply into a love that seemed hopeless to both of them. A flood,followed by a tragedy, seperates the two of them. What follows is the poignant story of seperation,unrequited love,attempts at a renewed life, and,finally,the joyous reunion that will leave you feeling so good that you read this book. Janice Graham takes you right there,whether it is Kansas,Paris,Greece or England. You feel a part of the locale. Her character development is excellent. Of the many characters in the book,you feel quite familar with them all. You will love Sarah and live with her through all of her pain,all of her joys,even sheding a few tears before you rejoyce at the ending. This book is so well written and a pleasure to read.	2002-01-02
US	43627228	R1XR1RWQ591Q43	0743219317	918613509	Eager to Please	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I Was Pleased	This story takes place in Dublin where Rachel Beckett has just been released after twelve years in prison for the murder of her husband. Although innocent,she was framed by her brother-in-law and lover, Daniel Beckett,who actually killed him. Upon her release she has become a timid,frightened woman.Her anger and sadness have increased due to the estrangement of her only daughter,Amy. There are several subplots in the book, one involving her probation officer,Andrew Bowen,and his wife Claire.When her dearest prison friend,Judith Hill,is found brutally murdered,Jack Donnelly heads the investigation and  another subplot develops. Jack was also the investigative officer in the murder of Rachel's husband. The story moves rapidly forward with everything coming together. Rachel's revenge upon Daniel Beckett is masterful,involving much complicated planning on her part. You will greatly  admire her for her accomplishment. &quot;Revenge is sweet&quot;,and she succeeded wonderfully in giving Daniel his just deserves.The characters were,for most part,one dimensional,but it did not detract from the story. This is a well written book with a surprising climax guaranteed to satisfy you.	2001-12-30
US	43627228	RMJJ4QPHMK22A	0679459626	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Disappointment	This is another book by Jonathan Kellerman with the further adventures of Dr. Alex Delaware,Milo Sturgis, and Robin Castagna, all of whom we are very familar with.This book,although very readable,falls short of his past narratives. It is just a bit unbelievable that Alex Delaware would become so obsessed with a woman he only saw twice, years earlier, when she was an adolescent. Her death releases a torrent of investigative behavior that seems highly unlike the Alex we know so well. It's no small wonder that Robin soon tires of this,leaving him. His diligent pursuit into the murder of this elusive ghost that haunts him so is a bit far-fetched. The other characters are fully dimensional,which Jonathan Kellerman does so well. His portrayal of sleeze is excellent. There is an additional subplot that both adds to and confuses the main plot. It is well written,but I feel the story line falls short of his past books.	2001-12-19
US	43627228	R2A31N8XDSIDXR	0399147772	471003961	Orchid Blues (Holly Barker Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A Disappointment	This is a quickly read book,with short chapters. The premise is great,but doesn't live up to it's promise. Holly Barker is the police chief of Orchid Beach,but spends little time on the job throughout the book. After the murder of her fiance' during a bank robbery on their wedding day,the plot veers off in several directions. Her grief is short-lived and she teams up with the FBI on a tangential move with them, seeking information about a group of white supremacists that seemed linked to the bank robbery. Her father,Ham,infiltrates the group,discovering that they have plans beyond anyone's belief,with the bank robbery being peripheral.  In spite of the intelligence of the leaders of the group they haven't a clue that Ham is not what he seems.The story continues unbelievably on until the incredulous climax. The characters are so thinly developed you cannot get a grasp of any one of them. Ham is totally unreal,as an almost superhuman being. It's an ok read,but it's hard to get into this very complicated plot and find it remotely believable.	2001-12-03
US	43627228	R117QV1ZVP4UWH	1892738295	883416838	Leftover Dreams	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Dream of a Book!!	This is a long book,but well worth the length in enjoyment. Louise and Faye are sisters ,long mistreated by their bitter,abusive mother,Maggie. After Maggie finally goes too far, they are  rescued by their warm,loving grandmother,Ellen.The two of them embark upon a life of much deserved happiness until Faye meets with an unfortunate, tragic accident.  Louise descends into a deep depression, that is only overcome by her relocating to England. There she successfully starts anew,away from her haunting memories.She becomes acquainted with Rachael,a wealthy girl with bipolar disorder, which is almost causing her to lose her life. Louise takes charge of her friend's life, encouraging her to make changes. The two of them turn out to be mutually beneficial to each other.Together they bring about positive events that change both of their lives. There are the male characters: Raffie,Faye's only true love; Nick,the lower-class englishman who helps save Rachael;Tim,the doctor who was able to bring Louise the love she was afraid to face. There are many other delightful people who add so much to the plot of this remarkable book. Even the peripheral ones  have life and are real. Charlotte Vale Allen has a great talent to make all of her characters live. You know all of them personally and almost become a part of the story yourself.This is another unforgettable book by Charlotte Vale Allen. If you have never read any of her books this is a wonderful introduction,which will start an addiction to all of her books.	2001-11-18
US	43627228	RAS3TJB6RM28D	1551668564	145304137	Dreaming In Color	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Powerful Book !	Bobby,a battered wife,along with her six year old daughter,Penny,flees after a final beating. She arrives in Connecticut,fearful and desperate to start anew. She is hired as a live-in practical nurse for Alma,a retired headmistress who has suffered a disabling stroke. Alma's niece,Eva,a famous author, hires her against her better judgment.Penny instantly ingratiates herself with Alma, soon followed by Bobby. The three of them form a sort of triumvirate which Eva is helpless to change. She soon realizes that this woman and her child are changing the tenor of the household for the better, reluctantly accepting them,although she cannot totally accept Bobby until much later. The other characters are:Charlie,Eva's lover;Dennis,Alma's physical therapist;Melissa,Eva's charming daughter,and,of course,Joe,Bobby's psychopath husband.Charlotte Vale Allen has,as always, given all of these characters such dimension that you know them well. You almost feel like you are living in this interesting household,sharing experiences with all of them. This story progresses so smoothly along,with side-trips of memory for each of the three women,which adds,not detracts, to the whole.The violent climax will hold you breathless with suspense until the end. This is a wonderful book,with wonderful characters, that will be hard to forget,as you become one with them during your reading.	2001-11-15
US	43627228	R3A69H5UF9T5RQ	0743407075	107696729	Grand Avenue	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Not So Grand	This book is about friendships,marriage,divorce and children. It starts when the four women meet on a playground early in their marriages, following them thru twenty three years with the death of two of them, plus assorted events and other tragedies. The premise is excellent,however the story seems to jump from one year to a year or more later,leaving you feeling that perhaps a lot was left out that should have been included. None of the characters were developed enough to give a real sense of them as people. They come across as missing something essential to their whole. The various children played a vital role in this story,perhaps more interesting than their mothers. They,too, lacked full develpoment. The husbands,other than Tony,were almost shadow figures,there,but not yet there.This book had all the potential to be a wonderful story,but too many people,too many crises in such a long period of time,with a vapid ending,it ended up being a disappointment. It's a pleasamt read,but not equal to Joy Fielding's previous books.	2001-11-09
US	43627228	R13IO63W1TBG9D	0385335180	541991009	Moon Women: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Tender Book	This is the debut book of Pamela Duncan. She shows great promise as a future noteworthy author,already at work on her second book. This story deals with Ruth Ann Moon,divorced,in her fifties,seeking some satisfaction from her middle-aged life. She is faced with the return home from rehab of her pregnant, rebellious daughter, Ashley. Her ex-husband,A.J., her eighty three year old, semi senile, mother, Marvella,and her sister Cassandra all enter into the life she seems to be losing control over. Ashely and Marvella move in with her,complementing each other,easing Ruth Ann's life in an unexpected way. Pamela Duncan develops each character so well that you almost feel like a part of the family. She is able to give each age group personalities characteristic of their age. This story is all about families; their relationships,both good and bad, the bonding,arguing and loyalties we all are familar with in our own families.  You will love all of the people and their interactions. Having lived in both North and South Carolina the vernacular of the characters is so typical of Ruth Ann and her family's class and so well portrayed. This is a great feel-good book with a wonderfully tender ending.	2001-10-11
US	43627228	RE4GZKSPTM0DM	0060195703	926968574	Long Time No See: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Long Time - She's Back!	Finally, Judith Singer is back;twenty years older,her children adults. She,widowed for two years, now has her PhD and teaches History in college. She also faces boredom. When she hears a news report about the body of missing Courtney Logan turning up in her own swimming pool,it starts anew her spark of interest in crime solving.She is hired by Fancy Phil,the Mafia king-pin father-in-law of Courtney,to help absolve his son, Greg, of the crime. What follows is an account of her delving further and further into this case she has created for herself, apart from the police. Judith's old police detective lover,Nelson Sharp, is once again upon the scene, although his promotion has left him uninvolved in this crime. He is able to offer her some help with her search however.Their passion is once again rekindled. Working on her own, she manages to do what the police either can't or won't do, bringing the case to an exciting close in the final pages.Susan Isaacs has managed to give all the characters both depth and reality.She gives Judith such sharp wit that you can't help smiling throughout the entire book, in spite of the fact it is a mystery. Susan Sarandan played Judith in &quot;Compromising Positions.&quot; We can only hope that this is made into a film with her again playing Judith. We can also hope that we don't have to wait until Judith is again twenty years older - rather a latter -day Miss Marple - to have her again appear in a book. This is a well written,humerous,fast-paced book, with interesting, believable characters and great plot.	2001-09-29
US	43627228	R1WK2JLEQ5FF46	0743202694	953997941	Money, Money, Money: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Waste of Money,Money,Money	I always look forward to a new 87th Precinct novel,and this time was no exception. After reading it I was very disappointed,and felt it lacking in all that made the 87th Precinct our favorite for so long. This book focuses primarily on Steve Carella and Fat Ollie Weeks.All our old familiar characters play little or no role in this book. In fact,Fat Ollie seems to have the star billing this time,and he's with the 88th Precinct. There is drug smuggling,drug dealing,terrorists,counterfeit money,the Secret Service and the Treasury Department all thrown into the plot. Each of the many characters develops a subplot of their own, which all melds into the whole. They are mostly underdeveloped, so you cannot get a real feel for them as individuals. There are also so many peripheral people introduced into the story that it muddles up its entirety. Carella and Fat Ollie are the only ones we can feel due to our vast,past knowledge of them. Just when you think,perhaps,it is all coming together,the book ends,leaving you wondering if McBain couldn't tie it all up satisfactorily. Being the well-seasoned writer that he is,this is most likely a prelude to his next book,continuing on with these elusive characters,who are still among the living,that seemed to disappear without our knowledge of what happened. McBain,again,graced us with his very witty repartee between the characters. It was just not enough to hold this convoluted book together.	2001-09-10
US	43627228	R3CQLME6I2CJ3Y	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Real Page Turner	Tess Gerritsen puts all her expertise as a doctor to full use in this well-written and suspenseful medical thriller. Dr. Catherine Cordell is the central figure, whose echoes of her past rape and near murder in Savannah have followed her to Boston and her new position as an ER trauma surgeon. Here,a serial killer is brutally murdering young women by the same method that was nearly perpetrated upon Catherine earlier. It all seems to be focused upon terrifying her again, for reasons unknown to her. The killer subtly stalks her mentally via her hospital office and her computer driving her even further into panic.The police are dilligently pursuing these henious murders and Thomas Moore forms a protective relationship with Catherine,bringing her the first trust she has known in years. Jane Rizzoli, the only policewoman on the case is trying to bring redemption to the role of females on the force. It backfires on her in her overzealousness,creating its own little diversion, until she is finally able to heroically redeem herself. Tess Gerritsen is so well able to describe the devistation wreaked upon women following rape, and the denigrating of women,in general,by the viciousness of this killer. The story is so fast-paced, moving you from one frightening scene to the next, with the excitement constantly building until the ultimate riveting conclusion.It is guaranteed to keep you on the edge of your chair until the final page.	2001-09-05
US	43627228	R26FEBZFURV6NE	0399147268	32851163	Echo Burning (Jack Reacher, No. 5)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	On The Road Again	Jack Reacher is on the road again. This time in southern Texas where the heat bakes things dry. One wonders hows he survives with his paucity of belongings,especially in this clime.This is a convoluted,twisted story with plots and sub-plots leading the reader in different directions throughout the book. Who is good and who is evil? What is the truth and what are the lies? Reacher manages to almost single-handedly take on all the &quot;bad guys&quot;,determining their actions in advance,and outsmarting them with the upper hand. He, then, slowly fades away after things are resolved. This is an excellent,fast-paced,book that will leave you wondering how Reacher will extricate himself from each situation he becomes entrenched in. Somehow, you know he always will, as Reacher is almost synonymous with Superman. I did not like this book as well as some of his others; perhaps it was due to the tediously dreary locale, or the fact that, other than Carmen,her daughter Ellie and Alice,all of the characters were completely dislikable. Nevertheless,it is a good read and a must for all Jack Reacher followers.	2001-08-29
US	43627228	R23L4FLEBZGWFR	1892738260	505290724	Promises	Books	5	5	6	N	N	&quot;Promises&quot; Lives Up To Its Promise	Although this book was written in 1980, if you are a Charlotte Vale Allen fan, it would be well worth your time to read it.I found this to be a very powerful book and was quite moved by it.It starts during the depression when Jessie and Tillie's formerly wealthy father dies,leaving them penniless. Jessie, at eighteen, has promised her father she would always care for twelve year old Tillie.What follows are Jessie's sad attempts to earn enough money to care for both of them. Tillie thwarts her early attempts and they run to Canada to try to establish a new life. A truck driver,Rene', takes them most of the way and plays a major positive role in Jessie's life throughout the book. They establish a new life in Toronto, where Jessie becomes a call girl to give Tillie the decent life she wants her to have. Tillie, in the meantime,turns into an ungrateful,selfish person,forcing her way into peoples' lives ,creating destruction along the way. Jessie's life takes an entirely different direction when she marries a wealthy busiman and has a family. A tragedy seperates the sisters, and they both face different kinds of problems in their lives,leaving them seperated for years.Events played out with both women create changes in them,making Jessie stronger and more positive about herself.Tillie faces a serious problem ,which forces her to look strongly at herself, realizing what she has been to others, and effects a major change.In addition to Jessie and Tillie,there are Sandy,Press,Flora,the children and,of course,Rene'.They are all so well developed you feel you know them well. This is a wonderful book, which leaves a &quot;feel good&quot; feeling when you have finished it.	2001-08-23
US	43627228	R1UV4I46TPIU7S	0345445724	29011818	Entering Normal	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Anne D. LeClaire - Take a Bow	Opal,an unwed mother and her five year old son,Zack,are escaping her life in North Carolina;away from her opressive mother,Melva,and the unwilling father of her son,Billy.She ends up in the small town of Normal in Massachusetts,moving into a house next door to Rose and Ned. Their son,Todd, was killed in an accident five years earlier and Rose cannot escape the prison of her grief over Todd's death.Opal is a free spirit,albeit a good mother . An unfortunant accident reluctantly involves Rose, which opens a small door to their bonding. Roses' guilt over this forces her away from Opel, but already a change is being wrought upon her by their brief association.Opal's family and Billy wreck havoc upon her and Zack, while, at the same time, Rose has a further tragedy in her own life. The bonding, which has already begun,becomes full-fledged, and the two unlikely women join forces in their crises, changing them both for the better in the process.Opal is so well portrayed as a tough young woman determined to make it on her own. Having lost a son, I have known a few Roses myself, who refuse to leave their grief, making it their way of life. Ned, Rose's husband:Billy,Zack's father and Ty,Opal's off-times boyfriend are all believable. Her mother,Melva,  is the controlling mother many of us are familiar with. Altogether, this is a wonderful book ,and Anne D. LeClaire has believably characterized these people and their interactions.	2001-08-16
US	43627228	R2EO6JB6Q1UVTT	0743204697	940771299	The Woman Next Door	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Barbara Delinsky Does It Again	This is just another in a long line of wonderful books by Barbara Delinsky.The book revolves around the occupants of four houses in a cul-de-sac,with Amanda and Graham O'Leary being the primary characters. Amanda is a school psychologist and Graham is a landscaper. They are trying desperately to have a child with no luck, and their marriage is suffering from their total focus on this. The other neighbors are Georgia and Russ Lange. She runs a large business, necessitating constant travel,and would like to sell it and remain at home. Russ stays at home with their two children, writing articles on the side.Karen and Lee Cotter come next;she busies herself with much volunteer work, and he owns a computer business,being frequently away from home and seeing other women.They have three young children and teen-age,Jordie who plays a vital role in the story. The fourth house harbors Gretchen,a young widow who married Ben after the death of his wife, and who has also now died. She is pregnant, long after Ben's death. Her pregnancy stirs many questions among the other three women, all wondering if perhaps one of their husbands fathered this child. Things in each household become unstable,with potential estrangements arising. A tragedy, followed by a major crisis, shakes up everyone and resolves many of the situations. Barbara Delinsky's characters are so believable. Her story flows smoothly from one event to the other and the people are like people we all know.Her characters have such substance,and, Amanda, the main character, is so lovable, you want to rush to her aid during her difficult times.Barbara Delinsky engenders such strong feelings for her characters in all of her books and she has done so again. This is a highly readable book.	2001-08-13
US	43627228	RAG2WRN3V0P1A	0316969443	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Beautiful; Story	This is not the James Patterson we all know and have come to expect a certain kind of book from. This is a different James Patterson, who displays a warm and sensitive side, unfamiliar to all of us. It is the story of Matt,Suzanne, Nicholas and Kate - of tender love, devotion,loss and sadness. Suzanne and Kate are near-perfect women and Matt is the ideal man, whom all women are searching for. Perhaps the characters are too flawless, but it matters not. This is a small, easily readable book,but will grip you with its intensity and leave you teary-eyed, yet joyful. I found this book to be so very moving, and felt better for having read it.	2001-07-30
US	43627228	R1IZ7JNQ2UHOXX	1892738317	682635096	Intimate Friends	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Memorable Book	This is another earlier book,1983,but, if it weren't for the lack of cell phones and computers ,it could be taking place right now. Lynne Craig,who does television documentaries, comes home from an assignment to find her husband has committed suicide for unknown reasons. Bereft,she moves to Connecticut and tries to resume her life as a widow. Diana, the woman who narrates her documentaries, and she are trying to get the network to do a show on rape. The producers are fighting this as they do not feel it will generate enough interest and keep assigning lesser pieces to Lynn.She, in the meantime,develops a fondness for John,the young handyman who does work for her,who is writing a novel in his spare time. Their relationship develops into an intimate one, more meaningful for John than for Lynn. She is also involved with an older retired businessman,Ross,and is emotionally torn over her conflicting feelings. The troubles at the network become more involved and Diana's disappearance,just at the crucial time of possibility for their rape show realizing fruition,throws everything into a turmoil.The ultimate resoloution of the situation and Lynne's decision bring a final turning point to this well-written, very engrossing book. Charlotte Vale Allen is never at a loss for a riviting plot. Her characters are always alive and you can love or hate them as much as people you know. This is a wonderful book for now.	2001-07-29
US	43627228	R19RO1B6SN2YXY	1892738325	860681566	Illusions	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Book is Not an Illusuon	Leigh Dunn,an illustrator of children's books, is flying to London to visit her father, from whom she has been estranged for years. Having survived the earlier loss of her husband and son, this trip was prompted by the recent death of her beloved stepson,Joel. On the plane she meets Daniel Goddard, a businessman. The two fall into a brief encounter in London,which is only that for Leigh, but is much more for Daniel. After returning to New York ,Leigh,still grieving for Joel and upset over her reunion with her father,cannot re-establish herself in her old life. Her mother, an author of romance novels, and her agent Miles try to encourage her, but she is unable to ,and a quarrel with her mother plunges her deeper into despair. In the meantime,Daniel is becomming obsessed with her and falling deeper into his obsession. Leigh slowly comes back to life,making amends with her mother, and falling in love with Miles. Just at a point where good things are happening to Leigh an unspeakable act by Daniel changes the course of everyones' life, almost destroying everyone.This leads to a very exciting ending. This is an earlier book,1987,of Charlotte Vale Allen's, but is as contemporary as today. As always,her characters have such dimension you feel that they really exist. Her story-line moves quickly forward, never missing a beat. Once started, this book is difficult to put down.	2001-07-29
US	43627228	R2DKPVR50OZO5B	1551668114	761264374	Thursdays At Eight	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Breakfast Club	This is a wonderful book about four women who attended a journal writing class and decide to continue meeting.They call their group the &quot;Mocha Moments Cafe' Breakfast Club&quot;and meet each Thursday at eight. The four women are Claire,recently divorced,who bears much anger toward her ex-husband;Liz,a professional woman in her  late fifties,who is a widow;Julia,turning forty,with teen-agers,has just  started her own business,and,finally ,Karen,in her twenties,whose dreams conflict with the role her family thinks she should follow.In spite of their age differences,these women compliment each other and each plays a major role in the others' lives.Every chapter focuses on one woman,with a page from her journal telling her thoughts,continuing on to her story.They all experience great changes in their lives and look to the others for advice and support, loyally standing by each other thru it all.Debbie Macomber makes these women so real you want to meet them and be a part of their group.You feel certain that there really is a Mocha Moments Cafe' and that Julie,Karen,Liz and Claire are sitting there talking every Thursday morning. This is definitely a womans' book, but  I am sure that a certain segment of men will find it appealing - the characters surely are.	2001-07-20
US	43627228	R18RN9W94XE69I	0553801228	774262906	Summer Light	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Beautiful Love Story	This is a story of love,betrayal and love renewed.It revolves around Martin Cartier,May Taylor and her daughter,Kylie.Martin is a professional hockey player and a sport's legend;May is a wedding planner and Kylie possesses a sixth sense, which enables her to see/talk to angels. On a flight that is in trouble Martin comes to the aid of May ,facilitated by a vision from Kylie.This meeting opens the door to a great love between them. After Martin's believing that they were meant for each other,he feels betrayed by May and disappears, only to reappear and marry May. Their love is so intense,but Martin's moods govern his behavior,and one does wonder how May can remain so loyally loving to a man who disappears at the least provocation.Martin's estranged father,Serge, a former championship hockey player himself, is in prison. His daughter,Natalie,died accidently when with Serge, and Martin refuses to forgive him.Natalie's angel appears to Kylie,wanting her to reunite the two, as does May, who has secretly visited Serge. A tragedy causes Martin to totally withdraw from May and Kylie,but there is a miraculous resolution between all parties that seals their love. This is a beautifully written story and Luanne Rice so well portrays the enotions of the various characters. She weaves a tale that will leave you happy with the outcome despite the unexpected events that change the course of their lives. This book is as compelling as &quot;Dream Country.&quot;	2001-07-16
US	43627228	R3PQY6ZKO8V15Z	0965743780	562648502	Mixed Emotions	Books	5	4	4	N	N	No Mixed Emotions Over This!	This is one of Charlotte Vale Allen's earlier books and,if you have not yet read it, I highly recommend it. Margot meets Paul at a party and is immediately smitten by his charm. After a brief courtship they marry in haste. It is only then that Margot realizes that Paul is not the person she thought he was. He becomes abusive and Margot is shattered by his change. Carefully planning her escape, she leaves all behind and starts anew in another city as a maid to Cameron and his father,Claude. Still fearful and haunted by her past with Paul,she slowly emerges as the person she once was and changes the lives of the people she is now with.As always,Charlotte's characters come to life.It is one of her great talents to make all of the people she writes about real. You can almost feel the pain that Margot suffered from Paul and live vicariously thru her;following her to her new life as if it were your own.Charlotte Vale Allen writes with such feeling and emotion that you become completely involved in her stories.	2001-07-13
US	43627228	R35CHXW5G2C380	0375412530	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A very Believable Family	This is the story about Rebecca Davitch who at 53 wonders if her life has all been in error. The narrative revloves around the large Davitch family with all the jealousy,quarrels that make up families.From the onset you are drawn into the heart of this family and will either love them or find them quite tedious.Initially you are certain you will never keep the girls seperate with their peculiar names of Biddy,Patch,NoNo and Min-Foo. They are given such depth and dimension that you quickly know them as individuals with distinct and quirky personalities.Beck's thoughts about her present and her past make her so alive that we can almost feel at one with her. The other characters: Great Uncle Poppy, Beck's small town mother,Aunt Ida and her old beau Will Allenby are so well-developed you feel you also know them personally. The various assorted children also contribute greatly to this story. The plot revolves greatly around the family gatherings and food seems to play a large part in the book.Anne Tyler has captured all the factors at play in a large family so well. It is a thoroughly delightful, enjoyable book.	2001-07-12
US	43627228	R84VF2IGYW9FV	0399147284	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Sandford Falls Short	This is John Sandford's twelfth &quot;Prey&quot; novel,and,although good, falls short of his past ones.All the familiar characters,Lucas Davenport,Marcy,Del,Rose Marie and a few others are there,plus the usual introduction of new individuals essential to the plot.Immediately we are introduced to James Qatar, a university professor,who is the serial killer that the story revolves around. His penchant for wooing and killing blonds leads Davenport and crew on a merry chase. Qatar focuses on Ellen Barstard throughout the book,but never seems quite credible as the serial killer who killed and buried all the women whose bodies were unearthed on a hillside. He appears too shallow to be the person we are led to believe he is.His character is without depth. After being introduced to Terry Marshall, a Wisconsin detective whose niece was killed, the chase broadens and we are led hither and yon on the search for this elusive killer who cleverly manages to escape detection because of his blandness until close to the end,in spite of several other unsimilar killings. The ending is predictable almost half-way thru this book.There is also the possibility of Lucus and Rose Marie being replaced in the near future, so who knows where the next&quot;Prey&quot; book will take us.We also could have done without Weather's trying to get pregnant. Lucus as a father does not lend itself to his expected role as the cool detective with a Porsche and witty repartee.Let's hope he remains the same.	2001-07-05
US	43627228	R1TFJXE3T6QC8X	080506608X	999589396	Singing Boy: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Touching Story	This is a soul-stirring narrative of death,loss and grief.Malcolm is shot and killed on the way home from an awards'dinner.Sara,his wife and Harry,his son, witness the shooting.The story develops around their dealing with this tragedy. Deckard,who was Malcolm's best friend,tries to help Sara and Harry with their grieving. He is facing his own demons from Vietnam,and Malcolm's death has caused a resurgence of buried memories. Sara becomes lost in her own world of the pain of loss and is unable to help seven year old Harry,who becomes withdrawn as his way of facing his father's death.Deckard works with Harry, trying to be his surrogate father, but they all become sadly estranged, and each further escapes into their own world of suffering. There is finally a break-through that reunites them and breaks down the barriers of sorrow that caused the seperation. If you have ever experienced a loss, this book shows the variances of grief that you will well be familiar with. If you have not, you will learn that grief holds no patterns. Dennis McFarland has demonstrated this so well in this thoughtfully written book.	2001-06-28
US	43627228	R3JJHAH8ME9FGI	0312252617	272135612	Fast Women	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not A Good Cruise Read	This book falls short of the style and humor we expect from Jennifer Cruise. All of the characters are unrealistic, including the dog,Marlene. When Nell comes to work for Gabe and Riley the plot starts developing neatly.Then the introduction of the other characters and further subplots started muddying the story-line. Nell's friends,Suze and Marge did not seem like real women with their peculiar men and their involvements in the various absurd situations that arose.Nobody seemed to possess a real personality and were almost one dimensional.Gabe and Nell's fights and the falling into bed became quite tiresome and went on much too long for me to believe that they could ever make.yet they ultimately did.This book became quite tedious;I had to work to get thru it and was glad to see the end..	2001-06-21
US	43627228	RUFJ91780I07Y	1587885778	873881745	Cold Paradise (Stone Barrington Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Enough of Stone	This book starts out from where we were left dangling at the end of the last Stone Barrington book. It is filled with the same slick characters,plus a few new ones thrown in.Stone is sent to Palm Beach with the impossible assignment of finding a woman,whom he manages to find immediately.She turns out to be Allison,from the past,who along with her husband,Paul,contrived a massive con game in an earlier book.Paul is again the main villain with a secondary villain thrown in to confuse the plot.Stone immediately falls into bed with Callie,who has a job but doesn't appear to ever work. Dino arrives from his NYPD job to aid Stone, as the Palm Beach police seem ineffective.Of course, Arrington briefly appears as does his non-wife,Dolce,who seeks revenge. The entire Palm Beach Scene plays a vital role in this book with its lavish parties,expensive cars,private clubs, and Stone,whose life is always endangered,manages to partake of all the glamour The entire plot is so convoluted with these various characters at odds with one another it gets tedious At a point in the book I was hoping that one of the villains would wipe out Stone and his tiresome friends to put an end to this,as there is a certainty that there will be yet another Stone Barrington book with the same wordly boring characters	2001-06-18
US	43627228	R2W5CIFE3NQWM5	1587883007	971990962	Summer Island	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Loved this book!	Kristin Hanna has written a very touching,thought provoking book about family dynamics and torn relationships. The notoriety that forces Nora into hiding after an accident brings her estranged daughter, Ruby, to her side to care for her. What started out as animosity slowly evolves into the love that had been lost for years as Ruby learns the truth about her mother. Her sister,Caroline,her childhood love, and his dying brother all contribute to this marvelous story of growth and the renewal of lost love. It is a wonderful book that will touch your heart	2001-06-13
US	43627228	R15QGATQTI3D20	155166853X	486585647	Parting Gifts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Accolades For Charlotte	Charlotte Vale Allen has been absent for a few years and this book more than makes up for that absence.As with all of Allen's characters these people jump right at you with their reality. You laugh with them,cry with them and want to be there to share their lives. It is definitely a good read! Kyra and her family are the lovable family we all have desired.Their closeness,in spite of their differences,make them more charming..The interrelationships between the family and the other characters make this an even more likeable book.Jesse,who is dear from the start,develops into a many faceted child. His ties with both his family and extended family make him more endearing as the book develops.After enduring many problems even the ending is able to leave you feeling happy. Charlotte has done extensive research prior to writing this book and it is quite obvious in the reading. I am a long-time fan of Charlotte Vale Allen,and think this book tops the list of all she has written,although that is quite difficult to say as all of her books are so excellent.	2001-06-10
