US	43625691	R9MWT3HFDA4ZE	0821776436	118369600	Let It Snow	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Great Christmas romances	Although Fern Michaels is obviously the author the editors are hoping will lure readers to this book, I brought it because of Marcia Evanick.  I stumbled across her first two books about the residents of Misty Harbor, Maine and thoroughly enjoyed them and have been anxiously her next book.  I have to say, that I was not the least bit disappointed in her story and I thoroughly enjoyed the other three stories as well.<br />In A Misty Harbor Christmas, Olivia Hamilton comes back to Misty Harbor for her grandmother's funeral.  When she inherits her grandmother's house where she spent summers as a child, she decides to sell it because her life is in California.  As a child, Olivia had a huge crush on Ethan Wycliffe, her grandmother's neighbor.  Ethan still lives in Misty Harbor and still lives next door to grandma's house.  When he and Olivia start spending time together, Ethan hopes there's still some of that crush left over because he's sure developing one for Olivia.<br />In All I Want for Christmas by Holly Chamberlin, all Abby Walker wants is to find a normal man fall in love with and have a family.  While her life takes some pretty comic turns, you keep rooting for her to connect with the handsome stranger that she keeps running into (and I mean that literally).   <br />Merry, Merry by Fern Michaels is a reprint from the mid-90's.  Andi Evans is trying to keep her veterinary practice afloat and hold onto her family's land.  Cosmetic tycoon Peter King thinks Andi's land is the perfect site for his new factory and is determined to buy it.  The two butt heads aplenty on their way to romance.<br />Christmas Eve by Virginia Henley is also a reprint from the mid-90's.  Feminist real estate agent Eve Barlow is sent to show a remote Michigan log home to hunky firefighter Clint Kelly on December 23rd.  Clint has no use for feminists and he and Eve butt heads aplenty.  When Eve gets mad at Clint while they are looking over the log home's grounds, she ends up falling throughthe ice on the small pond.  Clint saves her and takes her into the house to warm up.  The two get snowed in but is able to see Eve's vulnerability beneath her feminist façade and finds her very attractive.  When the two get snowed in for several days, they quickly discover that maybe their differences aren't quite so insurmountable.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  I will definitely look for the upcoming works by Marcia Evanick and Holly Chamberlin.	2003-11-15
US	43625691	RK6P21FFWSM5P	0373218265	360204542	Home For The Holidays (Silhouette Special Products)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	good stories, poor editing	This trio of stories each tells the story of one of the Baker sisters, Faith, Ann Elise and Marilou.  I really enjoyed the three stories and had they been independent books would have loved them, probably given them 4 stars.  BUT, they were put together in a trilogy  and by the third story I was so distracted by the editing, or lack there of, that I couldn't enjoy what was happening with the characters.  I want to say that I'm not usually very picky about editing but this was just to glaring.  These three stories were supposed to all happen the same 2-3 week Christmas period.    When Faith's children were introduced in the first story, they were 5 and 8, in the other two stories they were 6 and 9.  A dinner invitation in the second story that Ann Elise didn't want to accept in the second story so Faith accepted it, in the third story they had Ann Elise making a big deal about how she accepted a surprise invitation for all of them to the country club.  If you can look past the editing, I think you'll enjoy this book.  If bad editing drives you up the wall, skip this one.	2003-11-14
US	43625691	RNXTM7MPHYT4H	0373835876	429564712	Simply Sinful (The Simply Series, Book 1)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great romance	Kayla Luck is built like a blonde bombshell so everyone takes on look at her and assumes she's a dumb bimbo.  In actually, Kayla is a very smart accountant who has inherited her aunt's etiquette business, Charmed.  The police received a lead that Charmed is a front for a prostitution ring.  Detective Kane McDermott is sent to investigate.  Kane poses as a traveling salesman who needs pointers for a big dinner with his boss.  He convinces Kayla to go out to dinner with him hoping he can trap her.  It doesn't take long for Kane to realize that Kayla is innocent but he is so attracted to her that he can't cut the evening short.  The two end up spending the night together.  The next morning when Kayla goes back to her business, there is a thug waiting for her who demands to know where the \\"money and books\\" are.  When Kayla's sister comes in the front, the thug runs out the back.  The sisters call the police to report what happened and guess who shows up...Kane.  Kane is now convinced that there had been a prostitution ring run out of Charmed before Kayla inherited the business and that her life is in danger.  When his boss won't authorize protection for Kayla, he takes leave and guards her himself.<br />This was a very good book.  I sat down and read it in one evening.  The relationship between Kayla and Kane was very touching to see develop.	2003-11-05
US	43625691	R1CADI2XP7UMW1	0373227310	226675880	Randall Renegade (Harlequin Intrigue, No. 731)(Brides for Brothers)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Great book	This is Judy Christenberry's first book published in the Harlequin Intrigue line and I was, quite frankly, a little concerned how she'd make the transformation.  She did great!<br />This book concentrates on Jim Randall, Chad and Megan's son.  When he receives a call from his ex-girlfriend, he comes to her assistance against a renegade militia group.  The latest in the Randall series has a little more action than the other books in the series but the characters have the same strength and the story is very well developed.  If you're a fan of the Randall series of books, be sure to not miss this one.	2003-11-05
US	43625691	R2PBULFSNE3L6Q	0373441762	712183768	One True Love?	Books	3	8	8	N	N	A disappointment	This is one of the introductory books in Harlequin's new Flipside line that promises to be \\"fun, witty, unexpected\\".  I liked the premise of the book:  Corrine decides to teach her two timing boyfriend a lesson by dumping him and then going on a two week vacation so he can see what life is like without her and beg her to come back to him.  Corrine's best friend Matthew is in love with Corrine so he show up on her vacation determined to win over her heart before she goes back to the sleazebag.  Matthew is a great character and could win over any woman.  There were some amusing scenes when Matthew and Corrine were trying to get together and everything went wrong.  The problem I had with this book is that I didn't like Corrine.  She was to self-centered and I couldn't see any reason that Matthew would love her.  She was very condescending toward Matthew for most of the book.  The book is OK but I can't highly recommend it.	2003-11-05
US	43625691	R10H18H04KNZO6	0373765371	66250619	Man In Control (Harlequin Desire)	Books	3	26	26	N	N	nice story	Jodie Clayburn and Margie Cobb have been best friends all their lives.  At 18, Jodie loses her parents in an accident while they are on vacation.  Margie's big brother, Alex, steps in to help Jodie.  Since then, Jodie has been spending vacations and holidays with Margie and Alex.  Jodie has a huge crush on Alex but tries to hide it, but does a very poor job of it.  Alex is aware of Jodie's crush and tries to discourage it.  When Jodie overhears Alex telling Margie that's he tired of Jodie always being around, Jodie finally decides to distance herself from Margie and Alex.  As soon as Alex realizes that Jodie is distancing herself from him, he tires to win her back.<br />I'm not a big Diane Palmer fan.  At times I feel her heroes are cruel, especially in her older work.  I thought I'd give Ms. Palmer's book another try because this one looked interesting.  At the beginning of the book, Alex was a very harsh to Jodie but then more than made up for it later in the book.  I'm glad I gave it a try.  The change in Jodie during the course of the book was wonderful.	2003-11-05
US	43625691	RWEYMJCBHLMFH	0060539836	196428300	Kill the Competition	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another winner for Ms. Bond	I LOVED this book.  <br />Life long good girl, Belinda Hennessey moved to Atlanta to make a new start after the embarrassment of her failed marriage.   I know, a lot of marriages fail these days and nobody moves four states away, but Belinda didn't even get the marriage certificate signed!  So far, the start over is not going to well.  Belinda has no couch, only one lonely living room chair and a TV that only gets reception when it's raining.  The closest male relationship she's made since moving to Atlanta is with the voice of the helicopter traffic reporter she listens to on the way to and from work.  Could things get any bleaker?  What do you think?<br />When asked to join a car pool with three other women from Archer Furniture, Belinda accepts.   On her first day in the car pool, Belinda is recruited to drive in the nightmare Atlanta traffic.  Running tight for a very important meeting, Belinda is worried about not making it to work on time.  When she takes her eyes off the road for a second, she promptly plows into a police cruiser (oops) driven by Lieutenant Wade Alexander (aka Lieutenant Goodbody).  The wreck flattens a tire, breaks out a headlight and does major body damage, including breaking the latch on her trunk.  When she finally makes it to work, Belinda's boss, Margo, is on the warpath and dresses Belinda down within earshot of her co-workers.  Belinda snaps and tells Margo that if she's going to be treated like that she needs a raise.  Margo corners Belinda in private and lets her know that she was impressed with Belinda's backbone and if Belinda will help her push through a merger with another company, Margo will make her CFO of the company.  Belinda knows going along with this deal is wrong because she suspects some creative accounting but is too tempted by the promotion.  Margo is a real witch and has alienated just about everyone who knows her.  When her dead body ends up in the trunk of Belinda car, Belinda and her car pool buddies find themselves having to prove their innocence.<br />The characters in this book are great.  The car pool buddies are wonderful.   There's a good dose of the humor that I love in Ms. Bond's books along with a little more mystery.  You got to read this one.	2003-11-05
US	43625691	R22BMB0ORC51E8	0373791054	799730014	Brief Encounters: Put Your Guy On the Cover (Harlequin Blaze, 101)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	sexy story	This story opens with Swan McKenna interviewing models for her men's underwear line.  Since most of the models have come in costume, when a very sexy telephone repairman walks through the door, Swan thinks he's another model with stage freight and helps him to shed his clothes.  Only when the pants come down and he's not wearing a pair of her underwear (or any underwear for that matter) does she realize this is really a telephone repairman.  The story only gets better from there.<br />The repairman is actually Rob Gaines an FBI agent who is trying to gather information in a five million dollar embezzlement case.  Swan of course is an innocent dupe in the whole embezzlement.  The loan officer who gave Swan and her partner a loan to keep their business afloat, hid a cashiers check in an organizer he gave Swan as a gift.  Rather than go to jail, Swan agrees to let her three-store fashion tour be used to smoke out the loan officer's accomplice.  The only problem is that without the loan (which was also fake), there is no money to pay models for the tour.  Swan convinces her assistant Gerard, Rob and Rob's partner Joe to model for her.  The resulting fashion show is a riot.<br />The sexual tension between Swan and Rob sizzles.  Comic relief is provided by Rob's partner Joe and Swan's assistant Gerard.	2003-09-20
US	43625691	R18BUDIHEA134F	0373218605	658436855	Hush	Books	5	9	9	N	N	One of Christenberry's best	This is latest in the Crawford family saga that began as part of the Circle K series.  Twenty-six years ago, Caleb and Carol Crawford separated.  During this time, Caleb had an affair.  He told Carol about the affair and she forgave him but he did not tell her that the affair resulted in a son.  Now all these years later, a very pregnant young woman, Georgie Brown, turns up at the Crawford's front door.  Georgie is pregnant by Caleb's illegitimate son, Cal.  Before the two could marry, Cal and his mother are killed in an auto accident.  Now, with barely a minimum wage job and no insurance, Georgie is hoping for assistance from Cal's father.  Although she is furious with her husband for lying to her all these years, the very big-hearted Carol Crawford takes Georgie into her home until after her baby is born.  Georgie sees the problems she is causing to Caleb and Carol and tries several times to leave.<br />This is a well written story about mistakes people make in their marriages and a couple who tries very hard to overcome the hurt caused by these mistakes instead of just giving up.  I think this is one of Christenberry's finest books.  Caleb is flawed but he is a good man struggling to keep his pride in tact and save his marriage.  Carol and Georgie are kind, generous women who are dedicated to family.  The romance that blossoms between Georgie and Rick, Carol and Caleb's son, is heartwarming.  If you're a Christenberry fan, you'll love this book, if not, you'll become one.	2003-09-18
US	43625691	R1DNFHL964FEM0	1551667223	326301014	Flamingo Diner	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Touching story of a family in crisis	Growing up in Winter Cove, Florida, Emma Killian couldn't wait to get out.  As soon as she graduated high school, Emma headed to Washington, DC for college and later her career.  She has however remained close to her family via phone calls and occasional visits.  When her kid brother calls her begging her to come home because their father is acting strangely, Emma doesn't believe it's as bad as he says.  Two days later, Emma gets a call in the middle of the night that her father is dead.<br />When Emma returns home, she finds her mother in denial about her husband's death and refusing to get out of bed, her middle brother is trying to dull his problems with drugs and her youngest brother mad because Emma did not come home when he asked her to.  Although the coroner rules the death an accident, Emma suspects it's suicide based on her brother's phone call.  Matters get further complicated when her father's will is read and it's discovered that he not only spent all the family money but has heavily mortgaged the house and the family diner.  Emma asks her childhood friend, Matt Atkins, who is now chief of police, to help her find out what really happened to her father so she can have closure.  In order to save her family, Emma quits her DC job and stays in Winter Cove to run the diner.<br />This was a very interesting story.  Woods did a good job of developing her characters.  I felt the anguish of the characters as they came to grips with the suicide of their father/husband.  Matt was a great male lead.  Emma was a very strong female lead but her obsession with having to return to DC, even when she realized she liked being back in Winter Cove, was irritating after awhile.  Overall, this book is worth reading.	2003-09-18
US	43625691	R29INSHKUG619H	0821774069	602252757	Straight To The Heart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great romance	Karen Stewart Nicols was delighted when she ran into Tessa McBride, her childhood best friend.  The two had drifted apart when Tessa moved away to get married.  Now Tessa is divorced and back in Vancouver.  Karen and her two sisters have been trying, without success, to get their older brother, Eric Stewart, married.  The three Stewart girls decided that Tessa and Eric would be perfect together but they had to come up with a creative way to get them together without either Tessa or Eric realizing what was going on.  The solution:  For Eric's 40th birthday, his sisters bought him an expensive membership at the matchmaker service where Tessa works.  The girls knew Eric would resist the matchmaking forcing Tessa and Eric to spend a lot of time together.  What the girls didn't know is that Tessa and Eric had slept together before she left town years ago and the two parted on very bad terms.<br />This book was great.  Tessa and Eric are both strong characters.  The supporting cast is very well developed.  I really felt I got to know the whole quirky cast.	2003-09-10
US	43625691	RMG4H2SYDTCH6	0505525445	291903220	Sleepless in Savannah	Books	5	62	66	N	N	Great romance	Local talk show host Sophie Lane has a major crush on her best friend Maddie's  older brother, Lance Summers.  Sophie and Maddie devise a plan for Sophie to get a date with Lance.  Sophie arranges for Lance to be a quest on her show during a reenactment of the Dating Game.  She also rigs the game so she knows which seat Lance will be in so she can pick him.  Unfortunately, Lance overhears the plan and foils it by changing seats with another contestant and by giving the most unromantic answers in the history of the game.  During a commercial break, Maddie rushes on stage to tell Sophie about the switch.  Sophie is heartbroken.  If Lance wants that badly not to date her, so be it, she chooses one of the other contestants.  The minute Lance sees the guy who won the Dating Game kiss Sophie on stage; he knew he'd made a mistake.  Suddenly, he was haunted by dreams of Sophie in the arms of the other man when she could have been in his arms and it was driving him crazy.  <br />This is a fun book.  Lance is a great male lead.  Sophie has a past that she's trying to keep secret that throws a wrench into the relationship. When the two do finally get together, it sizzles. Well worth reading.	2003-09-10
US	43625691	R281XBIGUGGXE7	0758205937	642648314	Bad Boys Online	Books	5	6	6	N	N	great new author	These three stories are HOT!  In Hard Drive, Kindra Hill is carrying on an erotic affair via e-mail when Mack Stone walks up behind her.  Mack can't believe that Kindra would rather have cybersex than the real thing so he persuades her to act out the erotic e-mails with him!<br />In Press Any Key, Candy Appleton and Jared Kinkaid are advertising executives assigned to work together to get a big account.  The trouble is that Jared is so physically attracted to Candy that he's pushing her away so he won't jump her bones.  Their boss come up with the idea that the two should go through an on-line couples counseling session to work through their problems so he shut them in his office and tells them not to come out until they have completed the course.  The boss doesn't realize that the counseling is for sexual problems and as Jared and Candy work through the questions, the passion explodes.<br />When her catering business' web site is hacked and her body in the picture is replaced with a nude body, Halley Connors turns to her best friend and web designer, Evan Barrett to fix her web page before she loses her business.  Halley and Evan have both been having more than \\"friend\\" feelings for each other for some time but each is afraid to let the other know for fear of ruining the friendship.      When the two do get together, the hard drive sizzles!<br />It says on the cover that Erin McCarthy was discovered through a contest on Lori Foster's web site.  That seems appropriate because her writing is very reminiscent of Ms. Foster's.  If you like Lori Foster, try this book, I think you'll like it.	2003-09-09
US	43625691	RTNQIOHRODV1K	0380820560	192288870	Off Limits	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Sexy, police drama	Detective Emma Frey just transferred to the New Orleans Police Department from Los Angeles.  Emma is a good, by the books cop did her duty by testifying against dirty cops in LA.  She was shunned by her fellow officiers, received death threats and even had her engagement fall apart because of it.  Now she's hoping for a fresh start.  It doesn't take long for Bobby Halloran's bad boy, womanizer reputation to reach Emma and she determines that she needs to stay away from him especially when she hears there's a pool in the department on how long it will take Bobby to get Emma into bed. <br />Bobby Halloran has been on the New Orleans police force for about seventeen years and knows the ropes.  He's beginning to get burned out and has lately been pushing the limits on what's ethical.  The last thing he wants is anything to do with the new by the books, ice queen, Emma.  <br />As her first assignment in N. O., Emma is given a case where an apartment was burglarized and vandalized.  When the beat cop who answered the call turned his back, the victim disappears.  The victim is sister to a man who shot Bobby and Bobby also had an affair with the woman so he assigned to help Emma with the case, to both their dismay.  As they work together, the two start to thaw toward each other until there's steam coming off the pages of the book.  Emma realizes Bobby is close to losing it and is determined to help him any way she can.	2003-09-05
US	43625691	RBE5IGVUTQYQN	0743453484	492214240	Beachcomber (Robards, Karen)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great romantic suspense	Christy Petrino was living a dream life with a great job with a prestegious Phildelphia law firm and engaged to her sexy boss, Michael DePalma.  Then her loser ex-brother-in-law shows up at her door one night scared for his life claiming that Christy's boyfriend is head of the Phildelphia mob and has put a hit on him.  After doing some digging and realizing what Frankie said is true, Christy breaks off her engagement.  On her way to cry on her mother's shoulder, Christy is abducted by mob goons and told if she doesn't do one \\"favor\\" for the mob, she and her mother and sisters will be killed.  Christy is to take a suitcase to Ocracoke Island, in the Outer Banks of North Carolina and wait for instructions.<br />Luke Rand has been tracking the Philadelphia mob for years and has had an eye on Christy since she started getting friendly with DePalma.  With a sealed indictment about to handed down against DePalma, DePalma disappears and Luke follows Christy to Ocracoke Island thinking that DePalma will show up to pick up his fiance.  <br />After delivering the suitcase as instructed at 1:00 in the morning, Christy is hurrying home along the beach when her sixth sense tells her she's being followed by someone wanting to do her evil.  As she runs to get away from whoever is following her, she trips over a woman who is barely alive.  Christy runs screaming for her cottage and runs smack into Luke who is exiting her house after planting a bug.  When Christy's screaming finally alerts help, it's to late for the woman on the beach, whoever was following Christy, slit the woman's throat.  The local press realizes that there have been several women disappear from the area lately and that they all look alike (like Christy) and puts two and two together and realizes there is a serial killer on the lose who is dubbed the Beachcomber.<br />Although he had originally never meant for Chirsty to see him, now that she has, Luke pretends to be a lawyer on vacation and sticks pretty close to her in order to protect her from whomever is trying to kill her, a serial killer or a mob hitman, and to find out information about Michael DePalma.  The longer Luke is around Christy, he slowly comes to realize that she is being forced to aid the mob and he begins to fall in love with her.<br />This is a great book.  The romance between Luke and Christy was fun to watch develop.  The two story lines about the mob and possible serial killer were interesting.  I can usually figure out who the bad guy is pretty early in this type of story but I have to admit, I was blown away when the killer was revealed.	2003-08-29
US	43625691	RAZ710PZTHZOI	0312983751	70656303	Take a Chance on Me	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Don't pass this great book up	I really loved Donovan's first book, Knock Me Off My Feet, so I've been anxiously awaiting this book.  Boy, was I not disappointed.  This book is great.  I won't do a snyposis of the book because other reviewers have done a good job of that.  I'd just like to tell you that the characters are very well developed.  Emma is a very believable character, she could be your best freind who has been going through rough times.  Thomas is the kind of man most women fantasize about, very macho but a pushover underneath.  I also want to say that the dog, Hairy, is worthy of Jennifer Cruise.  I liked the way Ms. Donovan brought the dogs thoughts into the book.  We really was a great character.<br />Take a chance on this book, you'll be glad you did.	2003-08-29
US	43625691	RPYF5HZE598EL	0373765274	538785050	The Heart Of A Stranger (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Great romance	When horse rancher Lourdes Quinterez finds a badly beaten man in her barn, she and her family take him in and nurse him back to health.  The injured man cannot remember who he is so Lourdes gives him the name of Juan Guapo (Guapo is handsome in Spanish).  Although his past is a mystery, Juan is a good man at heart.  He and Lourdes soon give in to the passion that is sparking between them.<br />Those of you who have read the Lone Star Country Club series will not be surprised who Juan turns out to really be, for the rest of you, I won't give it away.	2003-08-29
US	43625691	RFA3AIJQJQMF5	0743442660	9090282	My Big Old Texas Heartache	Books	5	5	7	N	N	very well written	For the sixteen years since high school, Kate Harmon has been avoiding her hometown of  Cedar Dell, Texas.  When Kate became an unwed mother, she created a Texas size scandal by not only keeping the baby but also by keeping the father's identity secret.  Max Cooper, the father of Kate's son Ryan, was not prepared to become a father as a senior in high school.  He grew up the poor son of an alcoholic father.  His only hope of getting out of poverty was to go to college and possibly playing pro football.  While Max didn't marry Kate, he did forgo a possible football career and signed up for the Air Force so he could be sure to provide his son with child support.  Max did become a part of Ryan's life for a while but the two are now estranged.  Kate and Max are both back in Cedar Dell.  Kate is caring for her elderly father who has been in an accident and Max, who is widowed, wants to raise his five year old daughter in the small town he grew up in.<br />This is a great story.  The characters are well developed.  You really get a feeling for life in this small town.  Ms. Dawson did a good job of growing the relationships between the characters so you could believe how they go from conflict to friendship to more.  Kate works with Max to resolve the problems between Ryan and Max because it's what's best for her son.	2003-08-28
US	43625691	R1UA5OOUQ3N5PO	0505525496	835747707	Got a Hold on You	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Very funny romance	Mild mannered accountant Frankie McGee agreed to use her business knowledge to help her beloved uncle save his professional wrestling association.  She hadn't counted on her uncle putting her in a masked tigress outfit and sending her into the ring when one of the female wrestlers didn't show up.  World champion wrestler Black Jack Hudson wanted out of wrestling, not a new female partner.  He's sure he can scare off the timid woman in the tiger outfit but from their first match together when the tigress hits him over the head by mistake (she was aiming for his opponent) and knocks him out, Jack is fascinated by his partner.  The problem is, Jack is also fascinated by the boss' uptight niece Frankie.<br />I'm not a pro wrestling fan but I liked this book a lot.  It was interesting to watch the two sides of Frankie's personality.  Jack was a very sexy and sympathetic hero who had real depth.  There were a lot of funny scenes in the book, as you can image with this unique setting.  Don't let the pro wrestling venue scare you off.  This book is very good.	2003-08-28
US	43625691	R2DDJ054QP8NFW	0373245378	437458507	The Reluctant Princess (Viking Brides) (Silhouette Special Edition No. 1537)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	great first book of trilogy	When Elli Thorson comes home to find a big, buff Viking in the living room of her Sacramento apartment, she's shocked.  Hauk FitzWyborn was sent to Sacramento by Elli's father, King Osrik of Gullandria, to bring Elli back to Gullandria by whatever means necessary.  Elli and her two sisters were brought to California as infants by their mother while Elli's two brothers were left in Gullandria with their father.  The girls have had no contact with their father since they were infants.  Both of Elli's brothers have died so her father wants one of his daughters to return to their homeland and marry the man who will be the next king.  <br />Hauk is prepared to kidnap Elli and force her back to their homeland but Elli convinces him to contact her father and let her talk with him.  After talking with her father, Elli agrees to go willing to Gullandria after she ties up some lose ends.  The King instructs Hauk to keep Elli in his sight at all times so she cannot change her mind and run off.  The next four days are torture for Elli and Hauk as they spend almost every minute together fighting their growing attraction to each other.<br />This book was great.  Elli and Hauk were meant to be together and you really routed for them to overcome the class prejudice they faced and end up together.  Hauk was one of the best romantic heroes I've read in a long time.  I cannot wait for Liv and Brit's stories.	2003-07-22
US	43625691	REWRPMNSPRP3	0373169795	619122188	Have Cowboy, Need Cupid (Harlequin American Romance, No 979)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good romance	Suzanne Hartwell is a dedicated career woman who is going to let nothing stop her from the promotion she wants.  To achieve her promotion, she has to convince sexy rancher Rafe McAllister to sell his ranch to the development company she works for so they can build a shopping mall.  Rafe has lived his whole life on the Lazy M Ranch.  When his father died, the ranch was left on the verge of bankruptcy.  Rafe is working hard to keep the ranch and fight off the developers.  When Rafe meets sexy Suzanne, he has no idea she's working for the enemy even though he realizes she's on the other side of the development issue.  Rafe challenges Suzanne to tour his ranch and see if she still thinks it should be turned into a shopping center.  The more time Suzanne spends with Rafe on his ranch, the more she realizes she needs to find a way to help the man she loves save his ranch not destroy it.  <br />This book had a good story line.  Suzanne's growth as a person was believable.	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R3EMIX4M2WQXZM	0505523493	761063631	The Love Potion (Time of Your Life)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	hot cajun romance	I recently read Tall, Dark and Cajun, which was the first time I'd read Sandra Hill.  That book was so great that I had to track down Luc and Sylvie's story, The Love Potion.<br />Sylvie Fontaine grew up in a family of wealthy, overachieving, Creole women.  It was not an easy childhood for a painfully shy girl.  Luc LeDeux grew up in an abusive, poor, Cajun household.  Since childhood, Luc perceived Sylvie as a snob and Sylvie perceived Luc as the baddest boy in town.<br />As an adult, Sylvie works as a chemist.  She's currently working on a love potion, which she packages in jellybeans.  Luc is now a lawyer who is helping a group of shrimp fishermen, led by his brother Rene, fight a big oil company (which Luc's father is a major shareholder for).  Luc brings a water sample to Sylvie's lab and asks that she analyze it for petroleum contamination.  While Sylvie's back is turned, Luc eats about half of the love potion jellybeans.  When a reporter overhears part of a conversation between Sylvie and Luc and then pries the rest out of Sylvie's best friend, he goes front page with the story.  Sylvie and Luc start running when bullets start flying.  Luc tries desperately to fight the affects of the love potion, but why is Sylvie feeling just as attracted when she didn't take any of the love potion?<br />This is a great story.  There is plenty of romance and action and a good dose of Luc's hilarious family.  I'm glad I tracked it down.	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R37C7X8R88YRVC	0373169779	755299355	Frisco Joe's Fiancee: Cowboys by the Dozen! (Harlequin American Romance, No 977)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	good kick off to new series	The Jefferson Ranch in Union Junction, Texas, better know to locals as Malfunction Junction, is home to the twelve Jefferson brothers.  Neighbor Mimi Cannady convinces the oldest brother Mason that they need a housekeeper to help out.  Together they send an e-mail to a friend of Mimi's who runs an employment agency looking for an `older' housekeeper (one that Mimi doesn't have to worry about Mason falling in love with).  When something goes wrong with the transmission, the ladies at financially strapped Lonely Hearts Beauty Salon see the add and decide to all travel to the ranch to see if one of them can win the job.  When the twenty ladies arrive at the ranch, Mason, the only brother that knew about the housekeeper search, is gone so it falls on second in command, Frisco, to get rid of the ladies.  After the brother truck the ladies back to the bus station Frisco heads up to bed only to discover that one of the ladies, Annabelle Turnberry, and her two month old baby, Emmie, asleep in his bed.  Emmie is a colicky baby but the minute Frisco picks her up, she calms down and sleeps.  It's not long before rough, gruff Frisco is eating right out of little Emmie's hand.  Then Frisco breaks his leg and Annabelle nurses him.<br />This is a great first book in the series.  The other brothers were developed enough to make you anxious to read their stories but the main focus stayed on Frisco and Annabelle	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R2XX61QHZQXORL	0373765231	193090406	Cherokee Dad	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Whitefeather does it again	When Michael Elk answers his door one dark stormy night, the last person he expects to find is Heather Richmond, his ex-live in girlfriend who left for a convention in Los Angeles two years ago and never came back.  When Heather went to L.A. two years ago she had no idea that her brother was married to the daughter of the head of the L.A. mob and that they would end up on the run so the lovers could stay together.  Now, Heather's sister-in-law is dying of cancer so she went back to her father for the end of life care she needs.  Heather's brother and sister-in-law convince Heather to claim their baby as her own in order to protect the child from the mob.  She tells the mob that the baby is her and Michael's.  Heather convinces Michael to let her and the baby stay with him for six months or so and act like the boys father.  At that time, they will say that things just didn't work out after all.  Michael is reluctant to claim the baby as his own at first but right away realizes that he cannot let anything happen to the little boy.  It's not long before Michael truly considers the boy his son and is trying to find a way to keep Heather in his life permanently.<br />Sheri Whitefeather has again written a sexy as sin hero who will melt your heart.	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R6A5TUDA5B94Y	0758203594	207643662	Wilde Thing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	this is a SIZZLER!	Liz Adams' cousin Valerie is missing.  Valerie works as a phone sex operator and left a note for Liz that she was going to a party with one of her clients.  Three days later, she still hasn't come home.  Liz promised her aunt and uncle that she would look out for Valerie so she hires sexy private detective Steve Wilde to help find Val.  In order to get inside information, Liz goes undercover as a phone sex operator at the same place Val works.  Hoping to get an invitation to the company's private parties, every evening, Steve calls Liz and they share their most erotic fantasies then when Liz gets off work they act them out.<br />This is a very good book with a good story premise.  There is a lot of hot, hot sex; it's not for the faint of heart.  Liz is a very giving heroine; Steve an ideal romance hero, sexy and strong.  Valerie is a selfish brat.	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R3V2ON8E7REQIG	0373245505	141603971	Moon Over Montana  (Montana Mavericks)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	unlikable heroine	Linda Fioretti moved to Rumor, Montana after she divorced her lying, cheating husband.  There she meets local carpenter Tag Kingsley when he comes to do work on her apartment.  Tag's a widower with a young daughter.  There is an immediate attraction between Tag and Linda.  Since his wife's death, Linda is the first woman he's wanted in his life.  Strange things keep happening to Linda.  A strange man keeps coming to her door in costumes, a stranger enters her apartment when she's gone but Tag is there painting, etc.<br />I really wanted to like this book because Tag is such a great hero.  He is sexy and sensitive.  His relationship with his daughter is touching.  The problem with the book and the reason I didn't like it is Linda.  She is just totally unlikable and unreasonable.  Any concern that Tag shows her sends her over the edge but she doesn't seem at all bothered by the stranger that seems to be stalking her even after she knows he's been in her apartment.  Skip this one; it's not worth it.	2003-07-20
US	43625691	R3UOQB2QJ7UPFP	0446612944	709276242	Tall Dark and Cajun	Books	5	3	4	N	N	WHOO-EE!  This Book is Hot	When Rachel Fortier finds out her fiancé has just had a vasectomy without telling her, she is devastated.  She doesn't know if she wants children but he took the decision away from her and lied by omission to her.  Her fiancé is a Washington DC plastic surgeon that is obsessed with Rachel having the perfect body so for each holiday, including Valentine's Day; he buys her exercise equipment, what a guy.  Rachel breaks her engagement by having a bonfire with all the exercise equipment and about half of their apartment's furniture.  She then heads to Louisiana to meet her grandmother and cousin who she just recently found out about.  Rachel has visions of her grandmother living on a sugar plantation similar to Tara but a little smaller.  What she discovers is a backwoods cabin with animal skins drying in the yard; a shotgun-toting granny with long scraggly hair and a plug of tobacco in one cheek; and a cousin who could be the poster boy for Mullets-Are-Us.  Although a bit shocked, Rachel does her best to get to know her family and never looks down her nose at them.  Rachel also discovers Remy LeDeux and whoo-ee, it's lust at first sight.  <br />Remy is a helicopter pilot who was shot down during Desert Storm and is badly scarred on his face and body.  For the past ten years, Remy has been going through the motions but not really living.  He has just decided to make use of his life and wants to pilot for the DEA and help stop drugs coming into the bayou.  The DEA however requires that he have a larger landing pad for his copter so he goes to see Rachel's grandmother to try to buy some of her land.  When Remy sets eyes on Rachel, she immediately becomes all he thinks about.<br />This book was great, I highly recommend it.  The story line held my interest from the first page.  There was tons of humor with Rachel being a fish out of water in the bayou.  The relationship that Rachel develops with her cousin and grandmother is touching.  Remy is a good man who has suffereda lot both physically and mentally from his injuries.  Rachel is able to see beyond the scars begins falling for Remy.  The secondary characters were great, I can't wait to read more about them in upcoming books.	2003-07-07
US	43625691	RHH42FREOKJ8B	0380820064	600420650	And Then He Kissed Me	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This book is HOT!	Sultry Juliet Bridger was fed up with her phony Hollywood lifestyle and being hunted by the tabloids and paparazzi so she dyed her hair and took off on a road trip incognito.  When her car breaks down outside of Plentiful, Wyoming, sexy veterinarian Cole Sheridan comes to her rescue and tows her into town.  Cole has more important things than romance on his mind, like trying to find a nanny for his five orphaned nieces and trying to keep custody of them so he leaves Juliet at the service station.  When a tabloid photographer hoping to get a juicy story steals Juliet's wallet, Juliet arranges to work off her debts at the service station and the local pub.  In order to have a roof over her head, Juliet convinces the locals that she's really a kindergarten teacher and gets a job as Cole's nanny.  Soon Juliet becomes the darling of Plentiful but she knows it will all end if her new friends find out she lied to them.  Juliet and Cole also start a very steamy romance but Juliet knows it's just temporary even though she is falling in love.<br />The storyline is this book is great.  The secondary characters are very well written and interesting.  A secondary relationship between Ben, the tabloid photographer, and Juliet's backstabbing assistant adds a different dimension to the story.  <br />This is one book you'll want to be sure to read.	2003-07-02
US	43625691	R1W7SBE11FB140	0821772465	925829576	Chasing Lily (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun Read	Forty-five years ago, Lillian Redmond's Hollywood acting career came to an abrupt end when the studio boss was murdered.  Lillian provided the alibi for the prime suspect a gangster.  Everyone thought Lillian lied about spending the night with the gangster.  Now, Lillian wants to find the real murderer, clear her reputation and write her memoirs so she sets off from Alabama to track down her old friends and gather clues.  Chicago private detective Archie Hunter, who worked at the studio when the murder took place, learns what Lillian is planning so he comes to Alabama to protect her. <br />Lillian's granddaughter Lilli is supposed to take her grandmother to Disney World and talk Lillian out of writing the book.  When Lilli arrives at her grandmother's house, she finds sexy private investigator Sam Hunter, Archie's son, handcuffed to granny's bed.  Sam came after Archie to try to persuade his father to go home.  Soon, Lilli and Sam set out on their own road trip to find Lillian and Archie.  A couple of pairs of sinister gangsters are thrown in to spice things up.<br />This book provided two romances to follow, between Lilli and Sam and between Lillian and Archie.  It was nice that the elder characters romance was hotter than the younger couples for a change. The murderer was easy to figure out early in the story but that's ok because this is a romance not a mystery.  The mystery was used as an excuse to get the two main couples alone together in tight spaces for long periods of time and to put Lilli into perilous situations.  Overall, well worth the read.	2003-07-01
US	43625691	RSCDJLIY34YY9	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Romantic Story	Hope Prescott is a minister's daughter.  At 16, her parents were killed in an auto accident.  After their deaths, they were accused of stealing money from the church.  The \\"good\\" people of the town that Hope had always considered her friends turned their backs on her.  Hope and her two sisters and foster brother were ripped away from each other and sent to different parts of the country to live with no word where the others were.  Seven year's later; Hope's biggest goal in life is to find her brother and sisters.  Hope has forsaken a personal life to work long hours as a operator at an answering service and go to school so she can get a high paying job when she graduates and find her family.<br />Zach Givens was born wealthy.  Early in life he learned a hard lesson about people only befriending him for his money.  Although he could live off his family wealth, Zach is dedicated to the family business, Givens Enterprises.  He is somewhat of a corporate raider who is ruthless.  Zach is also a technophobe.  When his secretary goes on an extended vacation, she sets Zach up with the only answering service left in Boston, the same one Hope works at.<br />From her dealings with the wealthy townspeople who turned their backs on her, Hope has preconceived notions about rich people so she assumes Zach Givens is an arrogant jerk.  When the caller ID at the answering service reveals that the Givens residence is calling to pick up messages, Hope assumes she is talking to the butler, Griswold, because the great Mr. Givens would never stoop to picking up his own messages.  Zach is however on the other end of the phone.  Although initially offended by Hopes rude comments about himself, he quickly warms to her sexy voice and charming manner so he lets her keep thinking he's Griswold.  Hope really cares about the people who call into the answering service and her goodness comes through.  When Hope brings Zach/Griswold chicken soup when he's sick and the two see each other for the first time, Zach knows he has to have Hope for his own.<br />I thought the story was very interesting and well written.  Zach was a good romantic hero even though he was a bit to overbearing at times for my taste.  Hope was the perfect heroine of the story, she was not overly pretty like so many romantic heroines but because of her personality she was the most beautiful woman Zach had ever known.  With the relationship between the two main characters starting out just talking over the phone, they were able to develop a relationship based on the inner person before looks got involved.	2003-06-27
US	43625691	RBD62BHCISKQM	0373790937	146503789	Working It (Harlequin Blaze, 89)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun read	Jade Morrow is an up and coming public relations wiz at Michaels and Associates.  She's the gal the firm turns to on tough accounts.  The problem is she just can't seem to win that promotion to the Account Supervisor.  Drew Robson has taken over the family steel mill after his father ran off with $1 million of the company's money.  Drew is struggling to keep the mill afloat because it is the major employer in town.  Before his father ran off, he signed a $100,000 contract with Michaels and Associates.  Drew does not need PR when his company's about to go under so he's trying to renege on the contract and it's Jades job to make him honor it.  Jade's boss promises her the promotion she's been working for if she succeeds.<br />Realizing that the best way to get the money out of Drew is to teach him sales techniques so he can get business for the mill and also land a major investor for backing, Jade sets out to become Drew's sales coach.  The two embark on a three-week sales trip.  Drew believes that there isn't anything that Jade can teach him so he has a lousy attitude.  Jade is determined to help Drew learn the skills he needs to save the steel mill.  Jade works hard to show Drew that her techniques will work and before long he's winning sales.  The relationship between the two, although physically attracted from the start, soon turns deeper.  The sex scenes are HOT.	2003-06-27
US	43625691	R1HFP7H7NONHS0	0373691319	537316379	Her Private Eye	Books	5	2	2	N	N	HOT	Mallory Baines recently took her software company public and made enough money that she doesn't have to do anything she doesn't want to do.  What she wants to do is renovate her Victorian house that she bought in Silicon Valley and do voice overs in radio commercials.  Duncan Moore is a private investigator hired by a computer hardware company to track down who's stealing computer chips from them.  The investigation leads to Mallory's neighbor across the street.  Duncan convinces Mallory to let him observe what's happening in her neighborhood from her house by telling her he's after a cheating spouse.  Mallory soon figure out the truth about Duncan's investigation and is determined to help him solve his case.   The cover story for Duncan being in Mallory's house starts out to be that he's contractor helping her with renovations but when her mother pops over while Duncan is still in the shower, the story changes to he's her new boyfriend.  Sometime during pretending to be boyfriend and girlfriend, the line with reality start to blur and Mallory and Duncan begin to find themselves falling in love with each other.<br />Mallory is a great romantic heroine.  She is smart, sexy and funny.  Duncan is very sexy.  There is also a great cast of secondary characters.	2003-06-18
US	43625691	R3CEWKESBNSL7F	0373169752	673707240	Have Bouquet, Need Boyfriend (Harlequin American Romance, No 975)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Romance	Rebecca Hartwell lost her mother when she was twelve.  Not knowing how to deal with her loss, Rebecca crawled into her shell and has been terribly shy ever since.  Rebecca has developed a crush on one of the local doctors, Thomas Emerson, who is a hunk.  Whenever Rebecca is around Thomas, she turns shyer to the point of stuttering and is very accident-prone.  To save herself from embarrassment, Rebecca does everything she can to avoid Thomas.   Initially, Thomas' only interest in Rebecca is to get her to introduce him to her father so he can advance his career.  While every other woman in town is throwing herself at him, Thomas finds himself fascinated by Rebecca because she's not.   With the assistance of Rebecca's matchmaking cousins and sister, Rebecca begins to come out of her shell and she's like a butterfly coming out of a cocoon. <br />The support that Rebecca gets from her sister and cousins is heartwarming.  Rita Herron did a good job of developing this close knit family.	2003-06-18
US	43625691	R23AO2SFTWM317	0373765142	41730967	Beauty & The Blue Angel (Silhouette Desire, No 1514)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good story	When waitress Daisy Cusak goes into labor at work, handsome Alex Barone steps in to save the day.  Alex gets Daisy to his sister's house (his sister is a nurse) and then assists in the birth of Daisy's daughter.  Alex is so captivated by Daisy and her daughter that he spends most of his leave from the Navy with them.  Soon, Alex and Daisy find themselves falling in love.  They both have baggage from previous relationships that makes them hesitant to get seriously involved again.  <br />The story is good but there are several mistakes in the writing.  First Daisy has chestnut hair then blond hair then chestnut again.  Alex pours her a glass of water but she gulps wine.  Nothing major but I found it distracting.	2003-06-18
US	43625691	R17Q3YE7WRWP6W	037376510X	513877857	Sleeping With Beauty	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Sizzler	Princess Catherine (Cathy) of Llandaron is tired.  Her obligations to her country and family are constantly pulling her in all differnt directions and leave her no freedom to for anything she wants to do.  To get some relief from the stress of always being in the public eye, Cathy runs away to the United States for a vacation of hiking in the Rocky Mountains.  Burned out U.S. Marshall Dan Mason is spending his forced leave of absence in his Rocky Mountain cabin.  While out for an afternoon ride on his horse, he runs into Cathy, literally.  Cathy falls and hits her head and ends up with amnesia.  <br />Not knowing the name of the beautiful woman he almost killed, Dan nicknames her Angel.  It's obvious that Angel comes from a wealthy, privileged background, just the kind of woman that Dan avoids.  Dan takes Angel back to his cabin to help her heal enough to take her into town and leave her with the authorities.  On the way into town Angel has a vague dream about people chasing her.  When they get to town there are two men passing around a picture of Angel looking for her.  Dan's protective instincts kick in and he takes Angel back to the cabin with him so he can protect her until he finds out more about what's going on.<br />Dan is a very sexy hero.  Angel/Cathy is sweet and grows into a strong woman.  This is a really good book.	2003-06-11
US	43625691	RWT3A8K0BDFW1	0440241162	273850052	Nerd in Shining Armor	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great Romantic Comedy	Genevieve Terrence is really a hillbilly at heart.  Her mother moved her and her brother to Hawaii to give them a better life than what they could have gotten in the hills and hollows of Tennessee.  Genevieve and her mother have both tried hard to bury their roots.  Genevieve works as a secretary for a software firm.  She's heard all the rumors about her boss Nick and his \\"business trips\\" to Maui but she knows that if he ever takes her, she'll be the woman to settle him down.  When Nick finally asks Genevieve to accompany him to Maui, she jumps at the chance.  <br />Jackson Farley is a genius at writing software, but he is a total social misfit.  He's color blind so his clothes often don't match and he gets so wrapped up in writing his software that he forgets everything, and everyone, else.  Jackson fell in love with Genevieve the moment he saw her.  She's always been kind to him and they've developed a nice friendship.  When Jackson is asked to accompany Genevieve and Nick on the trip to Maui, he thinks maybe he can protect Genevieve from Nick.<BR> <BR>During the flight, Nick proves to be a real jerk and ends up bailing out of the plane with the only parachute.  This is a real problem because he's the pilot.  Jackson end up putting all his hours playing with his computer flight simulator to use and crash lands the plane in water off the coast of a deserted island.  Jack (a man that can crash land a plane safely should be called Jack instead of Jackson) and Genevieve swim to shore where they set about working to survive the night.  Genevieve puts all the skills she learned growing up in Tennessee to use and does a lot towards saving them.  Jack turns out to be a hunk under all his nerd clothes and to be very chivalrous.  He is what a romantic hero should be.<br />Ms. Thompson writes with a lot of humor.  I would highly recommend this book.	2003-06-11
US	43625691	R3DORKJH9HR3RE	0373790899	44189409	By the Book (Harlequin Blaze, No 85)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	HOT, HOT, HOT	Luke Lawson is a hunk.  He's a journalist who also writes sex advice columns for many men's magazines under the name of Lance Flagstaff.  As Lance, he has just published his first book, Sex for Total Morons.  Luke's mail keeps getting mixed up with his upstairs neighbor's, Shari Wilson.  When Shari brings down a padded envelop addressed to Luke, she plans on asking him out.  They've been flirting for weeks and she's ready to take things up a level.  Then, Luke's book falls out of the envelope she's handing to him and she thinks he's a real loser.  Luke convinces Shari that he needs her help to work through the sex manual he received and since she's attracted to him, she agrees.  <br />The sex scenes in this book are hot.  It is a little far fetched that Shari keeps believing that Luke needs the sex manual after the way he heats up the sheets, but overall it's a good book.	2003-06-11
US	43625691	R3Q2CBIH7DOQB0	0373835531	196428300	Manhunting in Mississippi	Books	5	15	17	N	Y	Great, funny romance	When wealthy restaurateur Ian Bentley's girlfriend proposes to him and gives him an engagement ring, he quickly heads to Mudville, Mississippi to personally work with Blythe Industries food scientists to develop a signature dessert for one of his new coffeehouse chain.  <br />Piper Shephard is the chief food scientist for Blythe Industries in Mudville, Mississippi, population 1,200.  Piper is responsible for creating the deserts that Blythe sells to restaurants around the country.  Piper's job is somewhat hazardous because she's allergic to chocolate.  Piper has been a bridesmaid so many times she could open her own bridal boutique with her bridesmaid dresses.  When she learns that she is the last single girl of the 25 girls in her sorority, Piper realizes it's time to get serious about finding a man for herself, even hypochondriac Tillie has gone to hospital so many times she's bagged herself a rich doctor.  When Piper discovers a guide on how to catch a husband among a box of items her Grandmother gave her, she decides to follow the book's advice, after all, it worked for Gran.   Although the selection of eligible males in Mudville is somewhat slim, Piper is determined to stay in town so she can be close to her Grandmother.  In fact, if Piper comes up with a desert good enough to get Ian Bentley to sign a contract, she will earn a large enough bonus to put a down payment on Gran's house.<br />Piper's attempts at attracting a man go hilariously wrong from the moment she begins.  From the moment Ian leans over Piper when she's lying in a mud puddle, he's immediately smitten.  The sparks fly between Ian and Piper but Piper is determined to stay away from Ian because of the ring on his finger.<br />This is a very funny book with charming, funny characters.  I especially like Piper's neighbor; he's a hoot.	2003-05-28
US	43625691	R1H2A1L4KX5AHC	0373835515	467682406	Impetuous	Books	5	138	145	N	Y	Hot, Hot, Hot	After a devastating divorce from a real jerk, gorgeous third grade teacher Carlie McDaniels hid herself away behind ugly glasses and uglier clothes.  When her best friend Bren convinces her to come to her Halloween party, Carlie lets Bren pick out her costume.  Bren picks out a sexy harem girl outfit for Carlie.  Very self-conscenious in the costume, Carlie no more than makes an appearance at the party then goes to the pool house to hide.  During her brief time at the party, Carlie catches the eye of Bren's brother-in-law, the devastatingly handsome Tyler Ramsay.  Although he's seen her many times, Tyler does not recognize Carlie with her dark wig, colored contact lenses and veil.  Tyler follows the mysterious harem girl to the pool house where they make hot (and I mean really hot) love.  When Tyler dozes off, Carlie sneaks off determined that Tyler would never know it was her.<br />When Carlie stops by Bren's to square up details of Bren's husband, Jason, helping with an after school recreation program, she learns that Jason had something come up and his brother Tyler is going help Carlie instead.  Carlie is determined to keep Tyler at arms length so he won't recognize her as the mysterious harem girl.  Although he's never given Carlie more than a passing glance in the past, working closely with her on the after school program, he quickly learns that she is unlike any other woman he's ever met.  Instead of throwing herself at him, she seems to want to keep him at a distance.  He also discovers that she is smart and funny.  Soon, he's less determined to find his harem girl and more determined to get Carlie to want to spend more time with him. <br />I really liked this book.  Carlie was a very sympathic heroine.  Her ex-husband did a major mind job on her and totally destroyed her self-confidence to the point that she had to hide who she really was behind her old maid clothes or the harem girl costume.  Although rich, handsome and able to attack any woman he wants (and plenty he doesn't), Tyler is bored and dissatisfied until he gets to know Carlie better.  These characters are so well written that you can believe them and understand why they are the way they are.	2003-05-27
US	43625691	R2YYO501KFP2LV	0373272901	408560481	The Baby Mission:  The Mom Squad (Silhouette Intimate Moments No. 1220)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good action	FBI Special Agent C.J. Jones is unmarried and very pregnant.  Since she is close to her due date, she has been assigned to desk duty until after the baby is born.  When her partner, Byron Warrick, tells her that the Sleeping Beauty killer has struck again after a three-year hiatus, it drives C.J. crazy that she can't be more actively involved in the investigation.  When C.J. goes into labor at her desk one night chasing down leads and Warrick is the only one there to deliver the baby, their relationship begins to shift.  Although both Warrick and C.J. had entertained romantic thoughts about the other in the past, neither had acted upon them.  Now, as they are thrown more and more together, the sparks get hotter and hotter and harder and harder to ignore.<br />The characters were very good.  I liked the serial killer story behind the romance.  Well worth reading.	2003-05-27
US	43625691	R3TMN51Q5N2GHA	0373691300	501146829	American Heroes: Riley	Books	5	6	10	N	N	One hot hero	Riley Moore is an ex-SWAT team member turned crime scene investigator who also owns a gym where he teaches woman self defense.  Regina Foxworth is a reporter who feels someone is out to get her but the police keep telling her that the series of strange incidents that have been happening to her lately are just coincidence.  Not convinced, Regina asks Riley to teach her self-defense.  Riley immediately falls for Regina and is determined to protect her.  <br />Lori Foster has a knack for writing heroes who are strong, dependable and incredibly sexy and Riley definitely fits the bill.  Regina is very frou-frou but still a likeable character.  Riley's group of buddies are great, I cannot wait for Harris and Butch's stories.  Foster writes buddy scenes better than anyone.  There is a lot of humor in this book, especially with the guard dog that Regina buys (it reminded me a lot of Jennifer Cruise's dogs).	2003-05-27
US	43625691	R3OTE4W4E6H5OA	0373613636	519182500	Texas...Now And Forever (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great story with a lot of action	Haley Mercado's family ruled the Texas mob.  Ten years ago, when mob lieutenant Frank Del Brio forced an engagement ring on Haley's finger with the threat of turning her father over to the FBI, Haley knew she had to escape.  With the help of a trusted family friend, Judge Bridges, Haley devised a plan to sneak off from a party at her family's house and fake drowning in the lake.  Eight years later, Haley receives a call from Judge Bridges that her mother has been beaten to near death in a mugging so she races back to Texas.  Disguised as a nun, Haley slips into her mother's hospital room where her mother makes her promise to go back to London so she won't be dragged into the mob like her father and brother.  Before leaving town, Haley stops at the local tavern to get something to eat and runs into Luke Callaghan, the man she has always secretly loved.  Luke is immediately fascinated by the beautiful blonde whom he's never met yet seems so familiar.  After sharing dinner and a couple of spins around the dance floor, Luke and Haley end up spending the night in each other's arms.  The next morning while Luke is in the shower, Haley again disappears from his life.  A couple of days after Haley returns to London, her mother dies of a heart attack.  Six weeks later, she finds out she's pregnant.  Haley is ecstatic that she is having Luke's child since she'll never see him again.<br />Shortly after Haley's baby, Lena, is born, the FBI and Judge Bridges approach Haley in London and tell her that the heart attack her mother suffered was not from natural causes but induced and they believe that it was ordered by Frank Del Brio trying to get information on whether Haley was alive and where she was.  Realizing that her daughter would never be safe until Frank was behind bars, Haley agrees to go back to Texas and work undercover for the FBI.  She wants her baby to be put in the care of Luke Callaghan until she is done with her mission so the baby is safe.  The Judge devises a plan to leave the baby on the ninth hole of the golf course where Luke and his three buddies golf every Sunday morning.  The plan goes awry when the note pinned to the baby smears and Luke's name is unreadable and then Luke doesn't even show up.  Lena is put in custody of one of the other men until they can determine who the father is.  Months later when Luke does finally reappear, he is blind from an accident.  <br />After a year of undercover work, Frank has become suspicious that the waitress working at his country club is really Haley Mercado and that the baby found on the golf course is Haley's.  In order to lure Haley out of hiding, Frank kidnaps the baby and hides her for months in a farmhouse.  After the FBI botches an attempt to arrest Frank, he runs off with the child.  He calls Haley demanding she deliver two million in ransom.  Haley turns to Luke for help.  Luke is stunned and angry that Haley deceived him as she did.  After hearing her story though he realizes she had no other choice.  They pull together to try to save their daughter's life and find true love in the process.	2003-05-23
US	43625691	RN6QN64T599I	037376507X	821399838	Where There's Smoke  Dynasties: The Barones	Books	5	13	13	N	N	There's definately fire here	When firefighter Shane Cummings heard that there might be a woman trapped in the burning factory, she risked his life to save her even after his commander orders him out of the building.  Finding lovely Emily Barone under debris from the fallen ceiling, he quickly carries her to safety.  When Emily awakes in Shane's arms, she knows she is safe.  Later when recovering in the hospital, Emily cannot remember her family, the circumstances around the start of the fire or even who she is; the only thing she remembers is how safe she felt in Shane's arms.<br />Shane tries desperately to fight the attraction he feels for Emily, after all, she comes from the wealthy Barone family and she has amnesia.  He doesn't want to take advantage of her.  But, can he fight the growing feelings he has for her?<br />This was a great story.  Shane and Emily are immediately attracted to each other and their relationship sizzles.  Emily's family is a little too clingy but I really liked Shane's uncle.	2003-05-23
US	43625691	R34T277ICKO2YG	0373835760	226025376	Men of Courage	Books	5	1	3	N	N	One hot book, three HOT heroes	The three stories in Men of Courage are great.  I read the entire book in less than a day.  The three heroes are sexy as sin and the heroines are strong, independent women.<br />In Lori Foster's Trapped, Rosie Carrington has loved her close friend Ethan Winters forever.  Ethan, on the other hand, thinks of Rosie as one of the guys until he wakes up with her in his bed after way to much to drink the night before.  While he's trying to sort out what, if anything happened between him and Rosie, Ethan's three best buddies show up at his door for a planned fishing trip.  After getting rid of the other guys, Rosie confesses to Ethan that she loves him and gives him one week to decide he loves her too.  Rosie's confession makes Ethan think and at that point, the sparks really start to fly between the two.  This story has the camaraderie between Ethan and his buddies that Ms. Foster has had in the Winston Brothers and Buckhorn Brothers series.  There are moments when I laughed out loud.<br />In Donna Kauffman's Buried, Haley Brubaker is estranged from her rich Boston family.  Although she has many possessions, the only thing she really values is her dog, Digger.  When an earthquake hits her California hometown while she is flying back from a business trip, Haley is determined to get to her house and rescue Digger.  After renting a car at the airport her flight is diverted to, Haley drives as close to home as she can get before the roads are blocked.  Trying to find someone among the rescue workers who will help her get to Digger, Haley runs into Search and Rescue worker, Brett Gannon and his search dog.  Three years her junior, Brett has had a crush on Haley ever since Haley dated his brother during college.  She has filled many of his late night fantasies.  While Brett goes to see if he can get info on the condition of Haley's house, Haley slips off to climb the side of the mountain to her home.  Luckily, Brett sees Haley right as she sneaks off and follows.  Brett prevents Haley from going into her home but he goes in and rescues her dog.  When an aftershock hits, Brett is injured.  While waiting for help to get them off the mountain, Brett confesses his crush to Haley and convinces her to stay with him until she can find another place since her house is not sound enough for her to live in.  Brett is funny and sexy.  Haley has worked hard to build her business and is a very strong woman.  They make a great couple.<br />In Jill Shalvis' Stranded, spacey university professor, Molly Stanton, is caught in a terrible Texas storm clinging to a tree by a swollen creek bed.  She promises herself that if she survives the storm, she will change her life and start living rather than being so focused on her job.  Doctor Matt Walker catches a glimpse of Molly's shirt through the rain and risks his life to save hers.  Matt carries Molly back to the house he inherited from his grandfather.  Unable to leave due to the storm, they seek shelter in the storm cellar and each other's arms.  The storm is not the only thing raging.<br />This book introduces the American Heroes series and I cannot wait for the rest of the series.  This promises to be a good one.	2003-05-20
US	43625691	RFU97QY4UO958	0373765096	619162948	Cherokee Baby	Books	5	8	8	N	N	One hunky hero	Julianne McKenzie and her cousins travel to Elk Ridge Ranch in Texas to celebrate Julianne's 40th birthday in style.  Julianne is pretty depressed about turning forty and her self-esteem is at a low, because her husband left her for a twenty-something.  Sexy Bobby Elk is owner of Elk Ridge Ranch and has a ton of his own insecurities; he lost part of a leg in the accident that killed his wife three years ago.  When Julianne and Bobby meet, the attraction is instantaneous but because of their insecurities, the two are slow to act upon it.  After a week of flirting, Bobby and Julianne do take their relationship to the next level although both expect that it will only be a one-night stand because Julianne is leaving the ranch the next day.<br />Surprise!  A month after she gets home from her birthday vacation, Julianne discovers she's pregnant.  Julianne tries to do the right thing and let Bobby know about the baby and hope he'll make room in his life to see the baby once and awhile.  To her surprise, after the initial shock, Bobby wants Julianne to move to Texas and work on the ranch so he can be a very big part of the baby's life but because of his wounded soul, he cannot offer Julianne marriage.  Julianne agrees to the move but soon finds she falling in love with Bobby.  <br />Sherri Whitefeather has again written a sexy as sin hero in Bobby Elk. The story of Julianne and Bobby trying to break through each others insecurities is sweet. If you've never read one of Sheri Whitefeather's books, start; they're great!	2003-05-20
US	43625691	R1KTZH2CFOQXLT	0373169701	7681396	Priceless Marriage: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 970)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lives up to the series	When Ruby Cade became part winner of the Big Buck Lottery jackpot, she immediately tried to call her husband Sam Cade who was serving in the Special Forces overseas.  Sam had promised Ruby that he would not volunteer for any more dangerous assignments so when his commanding officer told Ruby that Sam was out on a mission, she lost it and decided she could not take it anymore and filed for divorce.  Several months later when Sam gets out of the military, he travels to Jester, Montana determined to win back Ruby's heart.  When Sam goes to knock on the door of the new farmhouse that Ruby has purchased with her lottery winnings, Sam sees her in the arms of another man.  Ruby looks up just as Sam is leaving and calls him back, explaining the other man is \\"just Nick\\".  When Ruby sees Sam again, she realizes she still loves him as much as ever but she has to be sure he's going to stick around this time before she lets him back into her life.  One look at Ruby and Sam knows he'll do anything to win her back so he begins to help her and \\"just Nick\\" with work around the farm.  Sam wonders how long it will take to win Ruby's faith back and who the heck is \\"just Nick\\" anyway!<br />I've followed the Millionaire Montana series from the start but didn't think I would like this book because the characters in it were hardly mentioned in the other books in the series.  I was pleasantly surprised because I did really like the book.  Sam's determination to win Ruby back was very sexy.  There was also quite a bit of humor in the book.	2003-05-20
US	43625691	R2F7OR690XDZKB	0373245408	690752066	Almost Perfect (Silhouette Special Edition; Reader's Ring)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A compelling story	Dr. Maggie Templeton was a top notch Boston pediatrician until her husband left her for one of her partners in her practice.  Now Maggie just wants to get away from Boston so she's accepted a new position with a very prestigious California practice.  As one of her last duties in Boston, Maggie must attend a gala for a new pediatric ICU unit that she was instrumental in establishing.  Maggie's ex and his new wife will also attend the gala.  Maggie needs all the support she can get to make it through the evening so she calls her childhood best friend Jake Meredith.  Maggie's grandmother used to send Maggie to a dude ranch, which was owned by Jake's uncle every summer so she could get away from an alcoholic stepfather.  Jake lived with his uncle after his alcoholic father committed suicide.  <br />Jake recently became the guardian of his sister's two children and the dude ranch.  Jake knows very little about children but he has a very good housekeeper to take care of them so when Maggie calls, he agrees to go to Boston.  Although they have kept in touch by phone for years, Jake and Maggie have not actually seen each other since high school.  When Jake gets off the plane in Boston each is amazed at how well the other grew up.  After the gala, Jake gets an emergency call from his housekeeper's daughter that her mother had to have gallbladder surgery and will need to be off work for six weeks.  With eight weeks between the end of her position in Boston and the start of her position in California, Maggie agrees to help Jake with the kids.<br />It's not long before Maggie falls in love with the children.  She is also determined to teach Jake how to be a good father to the children after she's gone.  Jake and Maggie also soon have trouble fighting their growing attraction for each other as well.  They both carry a lot of baggage from their childhood that they have to work through.<br />The story is compelling and the primary characters are very well written.  There are alsosome great secondary characters.	2003-05-16
US	43625691	R3IEKV7TF3DFIN	0373169698	228572037	Saved by a Texas-Sized Wedding (Harlequin American Romance, No 969)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Story	I love the Tots for Texans series and this one doesn't disappoint.  Mabel, Florence and the gang are up to their old matchmaking tricks.<br />When her cousin died, Suzanne McCoy, a big city girl, became guardian of two small children and a ranch in Cactus, Texas.  Suzanne is determined to keep the ranch afloat so the children will have their inheritance when they grow up.  When she overhears the ranch foreman and hired hands discussing how they had already stolen from the ranch and were planning on taking more, Suzanne's temper flares to the point she gives them all fifteen minutes to get off the ranch.  Knowing nothing about running a ranch, Suzanne seeks advice from the residence of Cactus, Texas.  Everyone she talks to tells her the same thing; the person to talk to is Ryan Walker.  Mabel Baxter goes so far as to tell her the solution is for her to marry Ryan.<br />Ryan Walker's wife left him three years ago after giving birth to their daughter, Beth.  Now that Beth is getting bigger, Ryan can no longer carry her everywhere he goes so he has to take her into town everyday to a sitter.  When the sitter is offered a better paying job, Ryan decides he needs to hire a housekeeper.  In step the meddling matchmakers.  They convince everyone to go along with their plan to get Suzanne and Ryan hitched so there are no hired hands or housekeepers around to be hired.  Suzanne thinks it would be a good trade for her to be Ryan's housekeeper and he and his staff work her ranch but Ryan is worried that Suzanne will marry some other guy and he'd just be back in the same boat.  Ryan is convinced that a marriage of convenience is what would work best so he convinces Suzanne.  When Ryan's ex-wife comes back and tries to take Beth, Ryan and Suzanne join forces and soon they become a family.<br />The story moved along very nicely.  Ryan and Suzanne were both great characters who are trying to do the best they can for the children in their lives.  I liked the way the children were portrayed in this book.  They were fairly main characters in the book and they were believable and very sweet.  The speed with which the \\"matchmakers\\" decided on a pairing of Ryan and Suzanne was totally unbelievable but it did not detract from the story, it just allowed more time for the development of the relationship between the main characters.	2003-05-16
US	43625691	R1W81RT8BAX1MJ	0425189953	280326035	Murder Pans Out (Booked for Travel Mysteries #2)	Books	2	15	23	N	N	This mystery never pans out	Amos Ledbetter owns an antique shop along California Highway 49.  In need of money to buy out another antique shop, Amos agreed to pick up `special' shipments of antiques in San Francisco and hold specially marked items for individuals who give him a secret password.  Amos has tried to quit this business but the people he's working for have threatened his life if he tries to get out.  <br />Lynne Montgomery owns a travel agency and has set up a special tour of the California Gold Rush Country for a group of schoolteachers.  Lynne is acting as the tour guide and has a friendship with most of the teachers.  On the way to the rendezvous point, Lynne develops van trouble and stops at a gas station along the highway.  While the van is being worked on, she and her friend Betsy go into a Ledbetter Antiques, which is being manned by Amos' niece.  Betsy buys a lamp like one her grandmother used to own.  When Amos returns to the shop, he's frantic.  The lamp was being held for his special buyer.  Before Amos can locate Lynne and Betsy and get the lamp back, the buyer shows up and insists on going with Amos.  Amos goes chasing after Lynn and Betsy, sometimes with the disreputable people he works with, in order to get the lamp back.<br />There were only two mysteries about this book:  what was in the lamp, and why I kept reading it.  This book was very slow.   The back of the book states \\"they love roughing it at the Murmuring Pines Campground-until a mysterious accident leaves the campground's owner near death.  When it becomes clear that someone is bent on making this Lynne's final tour, she must dig up some clues and catch the culprit\\".   The accident doesn't happen until page 75, Lynne doesn't realize that the string of bad luck the group is having is related to the accident and that it's connected to the lamp until page 277 (although this fact is not kept from the reader) and she never does go searching for clues.  The book spent way to much time going into each characters' background which wasn't necessary for the story and read more like a travel guide/history lesson for Gold Rush Country than a mystery.	2003-05-06
US	43625691	RB7D29GKGYH0A	0373613628	829586913	The Marriage Profile (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Alot of action	There has been a lot happening in Lone Star County Texas lately.  The Mercado Family (the Texas mob), has made Lone Star County it's headquarters; a baby was left on the golf course with a note for the baby's father to watch over it but the sprinklers came on and blurred the name of the father; before the father could be identified, the baby was kidnapped.  <br />At he beginning of Marriage Profile, Justin Wainwright, the county sheriff, has been desperately trying to find the kidnapped baby.  The father of the baby has been identified and uses his money and power to persuade the FBI to bring in famous profiler Angela Mason to work on the case.  Angela is a psychic who has solved many kidnapping cases in the past. Angela is also Justin's ex-wife.  When Justin first sees Angela at a charity event being escorted by Ricky Mercado, Justin is furious.  Justin was always jealous of Angela's friendship with Ricky plus even though he thought he was over Angela, his attraction to her is immediate.  Justin has never gotten over Angela leaving him.   Angela still loves Justin too but she left him because the doctors told her she wouldn't be able to have children and she wanted Justin to have the family he craved.  The two work together to find the missing baby while fighting their attraction for each other.	2003-05-04
US	43625691	R1ZEFTSVTSODRW	0373764782	871091062	Cherokee Marriage Dare  (Dynasties: The Connellys)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Sheri Whitefeather does it again	I've recently discovered Sheri Whitefeater's work and so far I've not been disappointed.  Young Maggie Connelly has a reputation as an international partier and has trouble being taken seriously, even by her own family.  Maggie's grandfather, the king of Altaria was assassinated along with Maggie's uncle.  Now Maggie's brother is getting ready to take over the throne of the small Mediterranean island country.  At the wedding of one of her brothers, Maggie shares a dance with sexy PI Lucas Starwind.  Maggie falls in love with Lucas.  As a child, Lucas' world was shattered when his little sister was kidnapped and killed.  He has always blamed himself for not keeping her safe.  Although Lucas is attracted to Maggie, his broken soul will not allow him to share his heart with her.<br />Maggie is determined to help solve the case of who killed her grandfather and uncle and stole deadly information from Altaria and to prove that she is more than just a party girl so she blackmails Lucas into letting her work with him on the case. She is also determined to heal Lucas' soul so they can have a life together.  Lucas fights very hard to keep his distance from Maggie but quickly learns that she is much more than the surface image everyone sees.  He finds it harder and harder to resist her charms. <br />Sheri Whitefeather  had done a good job of entwining Lucas and Maggie's romance with the mystery of what's happening in Altaria but it's her characters that really set her book apart.  Being the 12th book in the Connelly series, this book does not dwell as much on developing the Connelly clan but on the people in Lucas' life.  Lucas' mother is a very sympathetic character who is still struggling to deal with her daughter's murder all those years ago.  I especially liked the bodyguard that Lucas got for Maggie.  He's one of the most entertaining characters in the book.	2003-04-22
US	43625691	R3U7ICE3812GXK	0373764987	705106381	Mail - Order Prince in Her Bed	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A hot book	When Italian prince Antonio Boniface discovered that Marco, his former valet, was using Antonio's identity and title to get more clients in his new job as a paid escort in Washington DC, he was furious.  He immediately came to the U.S. and used his connections to get Marco fired and deported back to Italy.  <br />Being a true gentleman, Antonio goes to the PR firm where Marco had a client waiting to explain that Marco would not be showing up.  When Antonio steps into the offices he quickly sees that naïve Maria McPherson is being set up as the brunt of the office jokes by receiving the `prince' as her 25th birthday gift.  Antonio's heart immediately goes out to Maria and he decides to put her coworkers in their place by giving Maria a date with a real prince, him.  Spending time with Maria soon begins to heal Antonio, who has only been going through the motions of life since his wife died.  Feeling more alive in the two days that he's spent with Maria than he had in two years, Antonio comes up with a plan to get Maria to come to Italy to work for him for six months.<br />Although the two are wildly attracted to each other, Maria is determined to remain a virgin for her wedding night.  Antonio promises Maria that he will but help her learn about sex but stop short of taking her virginity.  The longer Antonio is around Maria however, the harder it is for him to remain a gentelman and keep his promise.  The relationship between Antonio and Maria really sizzles as Antonio tries to do the right thing and fight his attraction for Maria.	2003-04-22
US	43625691	R1KGV39R0CDFQ9	0373765053	603824449	Billionaire Boss  (Matched in Montana)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A nice read	Kirsten Meadows needs a good paying job to support her mother, who is recovering from cancer, and sister but the best Mystery, Montana has to offer is a waitress job at Mystery Diner.  Kirsten's father was in the diplomatic service so she grew up traveling all over the world before her father left her mother for a younger woman.  Kirsten's dream is to one day meet a nice man and settle down but not right now.  Her main interest is taking care of her family.  With the help of town matriarch and matchmaker Hazel McCallum, Kirsten lands an interview with sexy billionaire investor Seth Morgan.  Seth recently purchased land from Hazel and has built a ranch house on it.  He needs someone to be his personal assistant while he's in Montana so he hires Kirsten.<br />The minute Seth meets Kirsten he is attracted to her.  Seth is used to the women in his life, even his mother, being gold diggers so he assumes Kirsten is also.  The longer Kirsten works with Seth, the more her attraction for him grows as well.  After sharing some really hot kisses, Kirsten is heartbroken when she realizes Seth thinks he can buy her.  She is determined to fight her feelings and hold out for a man who loves her.	2003-04-22
US	43625691	R19CB18NH3AS3	0373765010	348566341	Taming the Beastly MD  (Dynasties: The Barones)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Beauty and the beast	Brilliant heart surgeon Dr. Matthew Grayson comes from very old Boston money.  As a ten year old, he was mauled by a lion, which left him with one side of his face badly scared.  Being shunned by the other children after his accident left him with his soul badly scared.  His standoffish attitude at the hospital has earned him the reputation of being quite the beast.<br />Rita Barone is a beauty who comes from new Boston money.  Although she could work in the family ice cream business, she has wanted to be a nurse since getting a toy nurse kit as a child.  Her sweet, caring personality is a real asset when working with patients in the cardiac unit of the hospital.  <br />Matthew secretly has a crush on Rita but never believes anyone as beautiful as her would give him a chance.  He buys her several presents that he anonymously leaves in her mail slot at work.  When Rita finds the presents, she's uncomfortable with them.  Are they from a secret admirer or a stalker?  <br />Meanwhile, Rita is able to see behind Matthew's scars and surly attitude and is very attracted to the man beneath them.  When she needs an escort to a Barone family function, she asks Matthew.  When they are finally out of the work setting,the sparks begin to fly.  The relationship between Matthew and Rita sizzles.	2003-04-18
US	43625691	R382S867M3R7J1	037376491X	711122066	That Blackhawk Bride  (Secrets!)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A very sexy road trip	Charleston socialite Clair Beauchamp is days away from marrying lifelong family friend Oliver Hollingsworth.  Clair is not really wild about marrying Oliver but its whats expected of her and Clair always tries to do what is expected of her.  Jacob Carver is a private detective who has been trying to get Clair by herself so he can tell her a secret from her past.  Jacob finally gets the opportunity to tell Clair that she is really Elizabeth Blackhawk.  As a small child, her entire family was in an auto accident.  The newspaper listed the entire family as being killed but in reality, the children survived.  An unscrupulous lawyer sold Elizabeth to the Beauchamps who were desperate for a child.  At first, Clair doesnt believe Jacobs story but when she confronts her parents, they tell her the truth.  Clair is still going to go through with the wedding until Jacob shows up at the church.  One look at Jacob and Clair knows what she has to do; after all, she really doesnt love Oliver.  Clair tells Jacob she will travel to Wolf River, Texas to meet her real family only if hell drive her and she gets to do all the things her restrictive parents never let her do growing up, like having pizza.  Jacob and Clair set off on quite a road trip, stopping at every interesting small town along they way.  Its not long before the attraction between the hunky detective and sexy debutante grows out of hand.	2003-04-18
US	43625691	R35QAVAX975X9Z	0373764839	861948281	The Playboy & Plain Jane  (Dynasties: The Barones)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	This book is HOT	Handsome Nicholas Barone is a wealthy playboy.  On Valentines Day two years ago he overheard the woman he intended to propose to tell a friend she was going to marry Nick for his money.  Since then, Nick has vowed not to give his heart again and has only had superficial relationships with beautiful, shallow women.  Out of the blue, Nick discovers he has a daughter, Molly, by the woman who broke his heart.  Determined to be a good father, Nick hires Gail Fenton as Mollys nanny.  Gail is not glamorous, she wears little makeup and likes to spend her time playing volleyball.  Gail feels men have always considered her one of the guys.  Gail proves to be wonderful with Molly and she also has a soothing affect on Nick.  Gail develops a crush on Nick but feels she to much of a \\"plain Jane\\" for him to ever be attracted to her so she sets out to make herself over.  It's not long before she starts dating which drives Nick crazy.  It's not long before Nick sees Gail as anything but one of the guys and their relationship really sizzles.  This book is HOT.	2003-04-18
US	43625691	R1AU3HO674T8DR	0373613539	902689012	Texas Rose (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	love triumphs	The Carsons and Wainwrights have been fueding for generations.  One day, sexy Matt Carson wanders into the Mission Creek library to locate a magazine article someone recommended to him.  One look at the librarian and Matt asks her out without even knowing who she is.  Even after he finds out she's Rose Wainwright, Matt continues to pursue her until he wears her down.  The two carry on a secret relationship until Rose discovers she's pregnant.  Knowing that a Wainwright and a Carson can never wed, Rose tells Matt she's lost interest in him.  When Rose reveals to her father that she is pregnant, he sends her to New York to live with his flaky sister Beth.  A miserable Matt follows Rose to New York.  With a little help from Aunt Beth, Matt sets out to win Rose back.<br />Matt is a great male lead.  He is sexy, caring and vulnerable.  He's determined to win back the woman he loves in spite of their fueding families.  I never could understand why Rose was so set on not getting back together with Matt when he was trying so hard to show her how much he loves her.  Aunt Beth was a very interesting secondary character who added alot to the story.	2003-04-15
US	43625691	R3E48ZM3GL2STK	0373761171	597360351	The Cowboy Steals A Lady (Man Of Month) (Harlequin Silhouette Desire, No 1117)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A great story	Shane Nichols is the kind of guy that gives cowboys a good name.  He'd do anything to help a friend (not always successfully).  While Shane is sidelined from bull riding due to injury, his rodeo buddy, Cash, cries on Shane's shoulder that his girl (Milly) got tired of waiting for him and is getting married to someone else.  When Cash has to leave to get to the next rodeo, Shane decides to help his buddy by &quot;commandeering&quot; the bride until after the wedding by hiding her in a friend's remote cabin.  The only problem is, Shane grabs beautiful Polly instead of Milly.  To make matters worse, Polly is the daughter of a judge who Shane had a run in with in his younger days.  Shane never thought he would give up his rodeo days but finds himself more interested in Polly than bulls but feels he has nothing to offer her.<br />This twists in this story are really quite amusing.  This was a great book.	2003-04-15
US	43625691	R2KRS33ALDN6HR	1551664348	352780386	Montana	Books	5	47	52	N	N	A very sweet love story	Molly Cogan was doing everything she could to cope on her own in the big city.  Her husband left her and her two sons a couple of years ago.  When he gets jailed for fraud for stealing from his clients, the child support payments are cut off and she and her sons now live in shame for what her exhusband did.<br />When Sam Dakota,the foreman of her grandfather's ranch in Montana, calls to tell her that Gramps is dying, Molly quits her job, sells what she can and moves to the ranch to spend what time she can with Gramps.  When Molly and the boys get to the ranch, she is shocked to see how run down it's gotten since the last time she was there.  Molly begins to try to put things in order but it's not easy.  The bank will not lend them any money to operate on and someone is trying to sabotage the ranch. When Gramps and Molly find out that Sam is looking for jobs elsewhere when Gramps dies, they try to get him to stay.  Gramps finally offers Sam part of the ranch if he'll marry Molly. <br />Molly is a fiesty heroine.  Sam is the kind of hero I like, strong but yet considerate of Molly.  The secondary characters are very colorful and well developed.  The story is excellant with alot of twists and turns.	2003-04-11
US	43625691	RBPXZS5JXK9DO	0373196547	774159816	Daddy on the Doorstep	Books	3	2	2	N	N	To slow	I'm a very big Judy Christenberry fan and have anxiously awaited this book for months.  When I finally read it, I was disappointed because I don't feel that it's up to Christenberry's standards.  <br />Nick Avery is a rich, handsome, sexy businessman.  He's been married to Andrea for six months.  During their marriage, Nick works later and later trying to avoid having to talk with Andrea.  Although he lavishes her with things, he only comes home to sleep with her.  After six months, Andrea realizes she doesn't really know Nick.  She does know, however, that he never wants to be a father.  Having grown up an orphan in foster homes, Andrea wants children more than anything.  When she finds out she's pregnant, she leaves Nick rather than have her child grow up with a father that doesn't love it.  <br />Nick and Andrea both rush to see Nick's Aunt Bess during a terrible storm.  Aunt Bess turns out not to be at home and Nick and Andrea get stuck together for several days.  During this time, Nick keeps asking why Andrea won't come back to him.  He accuses her of all sorts of dastardly deeds.  For her part, Andrea won't just tell Nick she's pregnant.  It takes way to long to resolve things, the last 10 pages of the book, and get to rebuilding the relationship.	2003-04-11
US	43625691	R123FPE0C9IMHO	0373169663	854228305	Four-Karat Fiancee (Harelquin American Romance, No. 966)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great addition to the series	This is the fourth book in the Millionaire Montana series.  Throughout the series we have been treated to the feuding of Dev Devlin and Amanda Bradley.  Dev is the local bad boy saloon owner.  Amanda is the prim and proper bookstore owner.  Their feud stems from their businesses sharing the same building.  Dev wants to buy Amanda out so he can expand.  Amanda wants things at the saloon to quiet down so her customers are not disturbed.  Even after Dev becomes a millionaire by being part winner of a big lottery jackpot, Amanda refuses to sell to him.<br />One evening as Amanda is leaving the bookstore, she is accosted by one of Dev's patrons.  Dev steps in and saves Amanda.  When Dev walks Amanda home to make sure she makes it OK, they begin to talk and their relationship takes a turn.  Amanda has just found out the father who left her and her mother years earlier had four young children who have just been orphaned.  She is determined to get custody of her brothers and sisters and take care of them no matter what she has to do.  Dev offers again to buy her out if money becomes a problem and for the first time Amanda says she'll consider it depending on what she learns from Child Services about custody.  When Dev follows up with Amanda after the meeting, he discovers that Child Services doesn't think Amanda can provide the kind of home the childrey need because she is single.  The children are going to be split up, some going to foster care, some probably being adopted. One look at a picture of the four small children convinces Dev he has to do everything he can to help save them including convincing Amanda to a marriage of convenience.  It's not long before Dev finds himself falling in love with the four kids and Amanda but can he convince Amanda that his bad boy days are behind him and he'll stick around better than her own father did?	2003-04-11
US	43625691	R286DJ1NZHXZ45	0312983824	347731978	Faking It	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Crusie Never Disappoints	In Welcome To Temptation, we met the Dempsey family.  At the end of that book, Davy, a con man who was only a minor character, swindled $1 million dollars from porno queen Clea Lewis.  Prior to the start of Faking It, Clea seduces Davy's financial manager into helping her steal it back along with the $2 million Davy made investing it.  Determined to find Clea's bank codes so he can get his money back, Davy breaks into Clea's room to access her lap top computer.<br />Tilda Goodnight is a semi-famous mural artist who comes from a long line of art forgers.  During her youth, Tilda painted six pictures she signed Scarlet, short for Scarlet Hodge.  The only trouble is Scarlet Hodge is supposed to be the daughter of famous folk artist Homer Hodge but Scarlet only existed in the imagination of Tilda's father.  While watching the Goodnight family art gallery one day, Tilda's niece sells a Scarlet that the rest of the family didn't know still exists to Clea Lewis.  Tilda is afraid that if anyone gets to close a look at this Scarlet, they will discover it is a fraud because it's content is not consistent with the rest of the Scarlets and then people will start looking into the other art work they purchased from Goodnight Gallery.  To save her family's reputation and livelihood, Tilda breaks into Clea Lewis's room to steal back the Scarlet.<br />The minute Tilda and Davy meet up in Clea's closet and share a passionate kiss, we are treated to a great story as Tilda and Davy set out to retrieve all six Scarlets.  Jennifer Crusie wrote some delightfully quirky characters into this book.  There's Tilda's sister Eve who is a straight-laced schoolteacher by day who has a second personality, slutty Louise that only comes out on Wednesday thru Sunday nights.  The love of Eve's life is her ex-husband Andrew who came out of the closet a couple of years back.  Eve and Andrew's daughter Nadine dates boys based on what career they can help her try on for size.  Tilda's mother Gwen spends her days doing crossword puzzles and dreaming of running away to someplace sunny while listening to golden oldies on the jukebox.  Oh, I almost forgot, there's also a sexy hit man, an FBI agent, a lovesick accountant, a master thief, an albino artist and we meet Davy's father Michael who taught Davy everything he knows about the con game.<br />I highly recommend you read Faking It.  You won't be disappointed.	2003-04-10
US	43625691	R1F25QN7RW2TLL	0758200757	11482638	Dating Can Be Murder: A Samantha Shaw Mystery (Samantha Shaw Mysteries)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very funny new series	I loved this book.  It made me laugh. <br />Samantha Shaw  (Sam) used to be a happily married, PTA president, soccer mom.  When her husband died from a peanut allergy, she purchased Heart Mates, the dating service where they met.  Then she found out the life she had been leading was all a lie.  Her husband left her broke and was cheating on her.  So to get revenge, she sells his pride and joy, an antique Mustang that Sam was never allowed to drive, and gives herself a makeover, including a breast job.<br />Determined to become a successful businesswoman, Sam does her best to make a go of Heart Mates.  When her newest client turns out to be a thug who zaps her with a stun gun, threatens her life unless she comes up with half million dollars, Sam decides to fight back not just leave it to super handsome police detective Rossi to solve the case.  With the help of sexy private detective Gabe, Sam sets out on a hilarious adventure to find the money and beat the thugs that threaten her and her family while the bodies keep piling up.  <br />This book reminded me a lot of the Stephanie Plum series.  Sam had two hunky guys vying for her affection.  Sam goes through designer outfits faster than Stephanie goes through cars.  It was very funny and action packed.  Sam kept finding herself in all kinds of messes she had to get herself out of.  Gabe was a wonderful character who helped Sam learn what she needed to survive.	2003-04-02
US	43625691	R9ZOYVA2I0MQZ	037361358X	76485811	An Arranged Marriage (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	way off the mark	I usually like the arranged/fake marriage storyline in romance novels but both lead characters have to be someone I like.  In this book, Fiona was such a spoiled brat witch that she had no redeeming qualities except her looks.  I was unable to buy that Clay would fall in love with her so quickly and easily before she started making her transformation into a human being.  There is a subplot that flows through all the Lone Star Country Club books about a kidnapping and mob activity that makes this worth reading if you are following the series, otherwise, don't bother.	2003-04-01
US	43625691	RB19L3N1BEGDK	0758204280	950486991	Bad Boys On Board (Watson Brothers)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WOW	The first of the three stories in this book, My House My Rules, is typical Lori Foster, witty, sexy as all get out and a great story.  Ariel used to date Sam's younger brother Pete so she's off limits as far as Sam's concerned even though he is very hot for her.  Ariel happens into a bar where Sam, a cop, is working undercover to bust up a ring of muggers.  When Sam staggers outside pretending to be drunk and is attacked by one of the muggers, Ariel jumps in to save him making matters worse.  After Sam's backup shows up and arrests the bad guy, Ariel gives Sam a ride home and confesses he's the only man she wants.  Sam figures he'll scare the naïve Ariel off but she's on to him and she really wants him.  Sam decides one night will get Ariel out of his system and besides Pete will never know, right.  Well guess who shows up right before the deed goes down.  Looks like Ms. Foster has another great beginning to a series of stories.<br />In Going Down, Temporary Administrative Assistant Callie Montgomery is stuck in an elevator with sexy, tycoon Dominic Colbourne.  In the dark, Callie and Dominic confess their desires and insecurities to each other and then Dominic takes Callie on sensual ride through her fantasies.<br />The first two stories in this book are fantastic and well worth buying the book.  The last story was not as good, in fact I didn't finish it but the first two more than made up for it.	2003-04-01
US	43625691	RCDCYCSPOJK9K	0373764952	318563850	Amber by Night	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a charming story	Amelia is a buttoned up, small town librarian who was raised by her two old maid aunts.  With her hair in a bun, horn rim glasses and dowdy clothes, she seems destined to be an old maid also.  More than anything, Amelia wants to buy her own car so she can have some sense of freedom so she creates an alter ego, Amber who is anything but buttoned down.  \\"Amber\\" gets a job in a nearby town as a cocktail waitress.  Every evening after the aunts go to bed, Amelia sneaks out to become \\"Amber\\". <br />Tyler lives in the same town as Amelia but has never really paid much attention to the spinster librarian even though Amelia has had a crush on him for years.  One evening he comes to the nightclub where \\"Amber\\" is working and falls in love at first sight with her.  As he begins his campaign to win \\"Amber\\" for some strange reason he can't understand he also begins to notice Amelia.  It doesn't take long for him to realize Amelia and Amber is the same person and quickly finds Amelia even more intriguing than \\"Amber\\".<br />Amelia's relationship with her two aunts that raised her is heartwarming.  Tyler's understands that Amelia's relationship with her aunts is special and that if he wants Amelia, they come with deal.  His campaign to win over the two old maids is very sweet.   I thoroughly enjoyed this book.	2003-03-31
US	43625691	R3RP5PGPIPGYC	0380819384	358994526	The Way You Look Tonight	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great book	Simon Grant has been James Wells guardian since James was fifteen.  Even though James is now twenty-two, Simon is still very involved in James' life and cares deeply for him so when James gets engaged to a young woman he barely knows, Simon will do anything to protect him.  <br />Jorie Morrison moved in with her aunt and uncle when her cousin Lily was just a baby.  Jorie had an influential role in raising Lily and the two are closer than sisters.  Jorie knows that Lily is deeply in love with James but she is a little afraid that James will take her place in Lily's heart.<br />As Simon and Jorie spend time together, Simon begins to fall for Jorie.  As he investigates Lily further, he soon realizes that Lily and James are truly in love but he is concerned that someone close to Lily is trying to ruin James' company. <br />This book had very likable characters and a good story line.  There is one scene in particular where Jorie's eight year old piano student Darius is giving Simon tips on how to attract a woman that is riotous.	2003-03-27
US	43625691	R1DEBSLN8L1IVG	0373764960	992576420	Sleeping With Her Rival  (Dynasties: The Barones)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Really Hot	This is the second book by Sheri Whitefeather that I've read and I have really enjoyed both books.  In order to deflect a scandal from her family's company, PR guru Gina Barone agrees to create a fake scandal with PR rep Flint Kingman.  What starts out as a fake affair for the benefit of the tabloids, quickly heats up as Flint discovers that Gina is not such an ice princess after all.	2003-03-26
US	43625691	R1K6R1OPH94FF6	0373613520	546351877	Stroke of Fortune (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Love Triumphs	Flynt Carson and his three golfing buddies find an abandoned baby on the golf course one Sunday morning.  While the other three admit that they could be the father of the child, Flynt is convinced that the baby is his and Josie's.  Flynt confronts Josie and tries to get her to admit that the baby is theirs.  Josie is still madly in love with Flynt and knows she could trap him by lying and telling him that the baby is theirs but she is to honest.  Josie wants to win Flynt back honestly so while he is waiting on the results of the paternity test that will prove he's the father, Josie agrees to be the baby's nanny.  Josie's honesty is refreshing and the sparks that fly between Josie and Flynt are hot.	2003-03-26
US	43625691	R1F30MJ2B6DXUN	0373218079	378253967	Texans at Heart	Books	4	13	21	N	N	Vintage Palmer	Texans at Heart is a rerelease of three of Diana Palmer's earlier books.  All three stories have young, virginal   heroines and sexy brooding heros who at times behave like jerks and push the ladies away until they realize they cannot live without the woman they've fallen in love with. Then they work like the devil to win their women back.	2003-03-25
US	43625691	RW8UWVWDZ7GHZ	0373764901	823018635	Kiss Me, Cowboy!	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One Hot Read	When the little girl that she used to baby sit for got married, Nora decided it was time she found out what she was missing and find herself a man.  At the wedding, local cowboy Mike Fallon breaks up an encounter between Nora and the town Romeo.   Since Mike interrupted her best hope of losing her virginity, Nora informs him that he's drafted to help her find another guy to do the job.  As the two spend time together, Nora realizes she wants Mike but Mike fights his attraction all the way.	2003-03-25
US	43625691	R2QQHZTFAUNWY9	037361361X	901192483	Lone Wolf (Lone Star Country Club)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One sexy cowboy	Jenny Taylor is hiding from an abusive exhusband when she moves to Mission Creek, Texas.  Her neighbor is the very sexy Hank Wainwright, the illegitimate son of one of the town's most upstanding citizens.  Hank is a Native American who in the past has been used and hurt by Anglo women.  Although both Hank and Jenny come into their relationship with baggage, they form a friendship that quickly develops beyond love into a spiritual connection between the two.  The characters are compelling and the story is first rate.	2003-03-21
US	43625691	R2IWANVM7WEBWH	0380790076	373986775	Simply Irresistible	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not her best	It's probably not fair that this was the third hockey romance that I read in a short time period because while it's a very good book, it had trouble with the competition.  Georgeanne and John were likable enough characters but the story just does not stand up to Body Check by Deirdre Martin (the best of the three) or Rachel Gibson's latest book, See Jane Score.	2003-03-21
US	43625691	R1A0N8AOJNQFHB	0373169612	283924819	Surprise Inheritance: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 961)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best yet in the series	In economically depressed Jester, Montana, twelve of the local merchants each chip in a dollar every week for the Big Bucks Multi State Lottery.  When one of their numbers hit, they win over $1 million each after taxes.<BR>     In this third installment in the Millionaire, Montana series, Jennifer Faulkner inherits her grandfather's share of the jackpot.  As a child, Jennifer spent summers and holidays with her grandparents but has not been back for ten years.  On her first day back in Jester, Jennifer literally runs into the love of her life, Sheriff Luke McNeil.  Each believes the other dumped them ten years ago.  Can they work out their differences and rekindle their love?  <BR>   This is the best book in the series so far.  The relationship between Jennifer and Luke sizzles.  Luke's sister Vicki is a good secondary character who never gives up on trying to reunited her close friend with her brother.	2003-03-15
US	43625691	R2IZ629TQVNBE8	0373169531	829356498	Jackpot Baby: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 953)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A good start to a new series	In economically depressed Jester, Montana, twelve of the local merchants each chip in a dollar every week for the Big Bucks Multi State Lottery.  When one of their numbers hit, they win over $1 million each after taxes.<BR>     In this first installment in the Millionaire, Montana series, Shelly Dupree is struggling to keep the cafe/coffee shop she inherited from her parents open.  She is two months behind in the rent and is about to be evicted when the  lucky lottery numbers are drawn.  With this new found financial freedom, Shelly plans to finally spend some quality Shelly time and indulge in some of her dreams of travel.  When the press flock to Jester to cover everything they can about the new millionaires, one desperate young unwed mother abandons her baby in Shelly's cafe so Shelly can give the baby what the mother cannot.  Shelly has no experience with babies since she spent all her time as a youth working in her parents cafe rather than baby sitting.  When family services cannot come to pick up the baby for a few days because of staff shortages due to illness then weather, the local sheriff asks Shelly to look after the baby with the aid of the hunky new pediatrician, Connor O'Rourke.  With Connor's help, Shelly soon builds confidence in her mothering abilities and falls in love with the baby while Connor is falling in love with Shelly.<BR>     Shelly is a strong heroine whose personal growth makes this book worth reading.	2003-03-15
US	43625691	R1ERE09YIKQS5Y	0373169574	634179316	Big-Bucks Bachelor: Millionaire, Montana (Harlequin American Romance, No 957)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A strong cast of characters	In economically depressed Jester, Montana, twelve of the local merchants each chip in a dollar every week for the Big Bucks Multi State Lottery.  When one of their numbers hit, they win over $1 million each after taxes.<BR>     In this second installment in the Millionaire, Montana series, local veterinarian Jack Hartman is laying the ground work to leave Jester.  Five years ago, his wife was died and there are to many painful memories for him in Jester.  When Jack becomes one of the lottery winners, he finally has the money to leave town, now he just has to get the local ranchers to see his partner, Melinda Woods, as the competent vet she is and not judge her just because she's a woman.  To complicate his life  even further, the local single women figure it's time for Jack to come out of mourning for his wife now that he's worth $1 million.  When one lady corners Jack in the clinic's exam room, the only way Jack can think of to dissuade her is to tell her he's seeing Melinda.  That evening, as Melinda is watching the local news, she learns of her \\"engagement\\" to Jack.  Since Melinda has had a crush on Jack since she first met him, she agrees to go along with the pretend engagement so the local women will leave him alone.  Jack soon finds his feelings for Melinda growing.  Melinda is a truly beautiful person who fights hard to win the respect of the local ranchers.  Her assortment of quirky pets is delightful.	2003-03-15
US	43625691	R12J4BER8V9TTZ	0515134899	385176147	Body Check (New York Blades)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I could become a hockey fan	This is a GREAT book.  The conflict between the main characters, Ty and Janna, was kept purely on a professional level, never personal like in a lot of romance novels.  This made their getting together much more believable.  The story was multidimensional with great secondary characters.  I enjoyed watching Janna overcome her insecurities with Ty's encouragement.  This may be Deirdre Martin's first book but she's earned a place on my \\"must buy\\" list.	2003-03-04
US	43625691	R3IM75N3J131GV	038081918X	65675664	Getting Lucky (Marine, Book 2)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Worth the read	Getting Lucky was not quite as good as \\"Head Over Heels\\", the first book in this trilogy but it is still quite good.  The intertwining plot lines of the kidnapping of Zach's sister and<BR>her fianc and the Colombian out for revenge against Zach were well written and kept my attention.  The main characters, Zach and Lilly, were both likable enough although Zach was to quick jump to conclusions (just because Lilly was renting a room from his sister, Zach assumed she was a con artist out to swindle his sister out of her inheritance).  Lilly was a strong female lead who knew she could correct Zach's misassumption if she wanted<BR>to but she had the self confidence to let him think what he wanted to.  The extent that Lilly went to not to swear did wear a little thin after awhile and is probably my only real complaint with the book.  When the two finally got together, as with all of Susan Andersen's books, the relationship sizzled.  Overall, a good book, well worth the read.	2003-03-01
