US	43645283	R13BJVI4FAPMWD	0747275971	963285598	The One Thing More	Books	5	68	70	N	N	A Superb Murder Mystery Set During the French Revolution	With The One Thing More, author Anne Perry ventures away from Victorian London and into late 18th century revolutionary Paris as the setting for an extremely enjoyable and satisfying murder mystery. In fact, although I've only read a few of her later novels in the Pitt series, I must confess that this one is my favourite thus far.  <br /> <br />Spanning only a few days, the story opens in January 1793 with King Louis XVI (or Louis Capet, as he had by then derogatorily become known) being sentenced to death. Briefly, and without giving anything away, the story revolves around a plot to save the king. That we, as 21st century readers, ultimately know the king's fate in no way lessens the enjoyment of this novel, for the plot provides more of a backdrop to the story--much in the way that the Revolution itself does, what with its plethora of social and political issues, which Perry delves into wonderfully.  <br /> <br />Celie and Amandine, two young French women who were introduced to us in Perry's novella A Dish Taken Cold, are now in the employ of Bernave, the instigator of the plot. Living in Bernave's house are his daughter, his daughter's husband and their children, and his daughter's parents-in-law. Then there is the mysterious Jacques St Felix, who also resides in the house. Not everyone in the household is on the same side politically, however, and when one of the residents ends up murdered, no one is above suspicion. More ominous, however, are the twists and surprises that occur throughout the novel, for it appears that nothing is as it seems. <br /> <br />For the person interested in historical novels in general (or the French Revolution in particular), this novel is a must read. As a point of interest, minor secondary characters include the infamous Marat and Robespierre, to name but two. Perry does a good job of bringing the characters (both fictional and non-fictional) to life, and she does a splendid job of evoking the ambience of revolutionary France in the dead of winter.  <br /> <br />For the person interested in background reading on the period leading up to and covering the early years of the French Revolution, I strongly recommend Antonia Fraser's captivating book entitled Marie Antoinette: The Journey. It's not mandatory for the enjoyment of this novel, but you may just find your interested piqued after reading this splendid novel.  <br /> <br />Very highly recommended! <br />	2005-04-27
US	43645283	RVFRRTZHLUGCC	1594481482	463055555	What you wear can change your life	Books	5	29	35	N	N	A Superb Book for Anyone Wanting to Look One's Best!	What You Wear Can Change Your Life is the third book by British style gurus Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine.  Like their previous two books, there is page after page of full-colour photos, and though there's a minimum amount of text, it is packed with information.  Though I highly recommend the first two books, one need not read them in order to benefit from this one.  Overall the scope is very different from (not to mention broader than) the earlier books and it complements them well.  T&S cover \\"defining your shape\\" in a nutshell at the outset, but the focus here is on the more detailed areas involved in \\"bringing it all together\\"--areas that often get overlooked but which can really make or break an outfit.  The book deals with things like choosing the right underwear so that one's clothing will look its best, choosing accessories that suit one's body type, and choosing colours that complement one's own colouring as well as providing guidance on combining colours.  (One thing I noticed is that the use of bold or unusual colour combos is most successful when the combos in question already appear together in one of the items one is wearing (be it a blouse, scarf, necklace, etc.)).<br /><br />T&S also offer a wealth of tips on storage--after all, if you can't find what you want when you need it, or worse still, if it's a rumpled mess, what's the point!  There is a chapter on beauty, wherein T&S recommend a number of tricks, products or procedures to provide short-, medium-, and long-term solutions to problem areas such as spots, cellulite, hair removal, a small bust, wrinkles, thin or lined lips, circles or bags under the eyes, teeth whitening, and saggy necks.  There is a chapter on hair, wherein improvements to style and colouring are illustrated with before and after photos of eight women.  There is a chapter on make-up wherein T&S list their favourite products and techniques for everything from preparing one's skin, to foundation and concealers, to the proper care of lips and nails, and so on.  They also highlight a number of \\"classic mistakes\\" which so many of us have made--things like clumpy mascara; incorrectly applied blusher, lip liner, and foundation; and overly pencilled eyebrows.  There is a chapter on travel, which shows one how to minimize toiletries and pack a suitcase or carry-on.  Especially fun are the dos and don'ts for looking good in your holiday photos.  It's amazing how one's pose can make such a difference when it comes to minimizing (or emphasizing!) flaws--things like no neck, flabby tummies, saddlebags, no waist, big arms, short legs, no bust, and large bust.<br /><br />One thing the book points out is that women have different concerns at different times of life--our bodies change (as do our figures), wrinkles appear, hair turns grey, and so on.  The book deals with concerns many women have at different phases in their lives.  One such phase which was granted an entire chapter is pregnancy.  T&S (both recently having been pregnant) demonstrate the dos and don'ts of casual-, work-, evening-, and party-wear for both winter and summer.  Some of the outfits really look quite stylish, but I ought to point out that these ladies abhor maternity wear, so whether or not one cares for the styles recommended will really depend on whether or not one likes form-fitting clothing that emphasizes the bump.<br /><br />In conclusion, if you are a woman seeking guidance on how to look your best and thereby feel more confident, this fun and informative book is a great place to start, and I highly recommend it.  I also strongly recommend Trinny and Susannah's first book, What Not To Wear, which provides guidance on the best (and worst) clothing styles for maximizing one's assets while minimizing one's flaws.  Their second book, What Not To Wear Part 2, is good for women who've read this book and the first (and who have learned how to dress for their body-types) but want a little guidance on dressing for specificoccasions.	2005-02-21
US	43645283	R292HP1EVBTO41	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	5	7	7	N	N	One of the Best Rumpole Stories Yet!	Whether you enjoy the books or only know of that dishevelled, curmudgeonly, cheroot-smoking Old Bailey barrister from the television/video series starring the late Leo McKern, you are in for a real treat with this, the latest in the Rumpole series by author John Mortimer.  After all, is there any fan out there who has not wondered about the story behind the immortal \\"Penge Bungalow Murders\\" to which Rumpole is always referring--the case he did \\"alone and without a leader\\" whilst still a junior?  Well, here it is, in all its glory--and what an enjoyable story it is!   <br /> <br />The novel takes place in the present day with the story of Rumpole's most famous case being told through the pages of his memoirs, which he has decided to write for the sake of posterity.  In addition, we are privy to Rumpole's introduction to the famous Timson clan (whose career of petty crime has kept Rumpole busy over the decades) and their archenemies, the Molloys.  There's also plenty of humour here, as one would expect--particularly as this memorable chapter in Rumpole's life coincided with the meeting of his equally memorable wife-to-be, Hilda (whose daddy, C.H. Wystan, was head of chambers at the time)!  We also, perhaps a little surprisingly, get a glimpse into Rumpole's pre-Hilda love-life!  As for the main story, it is engrossing enough to draw the reader right in.  Personally, I couldn't put the book down and gave up trying.  One reason it is so good is that there is only the one primary story so Mortimer has had enough time and space to develop it more fully than is often the case. <br /> <br />I've said nothing about the actual story--the \\"murders\\"--because I don't wish to give anything away.  Suffice it to say that if you've enjoyed the Rumpole series (whether on television or in print), this novel is a must read.  It's a short one (my hardcover version is only 214 pages of fairly large print), but it's one that is a pleasure to curl up with, and it's certainly one that I will be rereading down the road.  It is as good as any Rumpole story, but because it's so unusual, what with John Mortimer taking us back in time to that famous case--as well as the meeting of She Who Must Be Obeyed!--I have to say it's my personal favourite. <br /> <br />Very highly recommended! <br />	2005-01-19
US	43645283	R1R8WLQQS3OECR	1594480508	698372812	What Not To Wear for Every Occasion	Books	4	108	112	N	N	Not as Good as the First Book, but still a Fun Helpful Guide	What Not To Wear: For Every Occasion is Trinny Woodall &amp; Susannah Constantine's follow-up to their first book, simply entitled What Not To Wear.  Their first book dealt with dressing for different body-types in order to maximize one's assets while minimizing one's flaws.  For Every Occasion begins with the assumption that the reader has read the first book and gotten some sort of grip on the cut of clothing she should or should not be wearing.  The authors proceed to recommend or reject various outfits or clothing combinations for an assortment of occasions.  Regardless of how flattering an outfit may be to one's figure, the focus here is on its appropriateness.  <br />This book is set up just like the first one, with Trinny &amp; Susannah doing all of the modelling, and with full-page colour pictures of the &quot;don'ts&quot; on the left-hand side of the page and the &quot;dos&quot; on the right.  It deals with dressing for the following occasions:  The job interview (for both the first job and going back to work); work wear (for the boss, the executive, and the &quot;pa&quot;); work to play (for both winter and summer--this section only includes &quot;dos&quot;, with the day outfit on the left and its evening transformation on the right); school events (sports day, school play, pta meeting, and carol concert); summer and winter weddings (for both day and evening); summer holiday (both beachwear and after sun); winter holiday (both on the slopes and apres ski); and partying (for both winter and summer).   <br />Not only does the book deal with a number of occasions, but it deals with a range of age groups (and it does require a slight stretch of the imagination when Trinny &amp; Susannah dress as young girls embarking on their first job interview!).  Most of the &quot;occasions&quot; are divided into three parts--smart (geared more toward the older woman), casual, and trendy (more for the younger woman).  The exceptions are weddings (for which their is no &quot;casual&quot; option), school events (which show only one do and don't for each event), and winter holidays on the slopes (which uses the headings &quot;professional&quot;, &quot;beginner&quot;, and &quot;poser&quot;). <br />The final chapter deals with three underwear concerns:  controlling flabby tummies, minimizing the unsightliness of visible thongs, and wearing the right bra.<br />Overall, I enjoyed the book, though I must confess I didn't find it quite as useful (or as entertaining) as their first.  Having said that, it is vitally important to read the introduction before perusing the book.  Trinny &amp; Susannah admit that we readers may think some of the &quot;don'ts&quot; look better than the &quot;dos&quot;, but they are listed as &quot;don'ts&quot; because they are staid, unimaginative, and cookie-cutter.  This is a book that is geared toward the woman who wishes to dress appropriately for the occasion (though I personally question the appropriateness of even their smartest business-wear suggestions for women working in an ultra-conservative, male-dominated profession) without sacrificing her femininity, personal flair, and sense of individuality.  Therefore, if you are looking for a book outlining the &quot;business uniform&quot;, have a very conservative personal style, or prefer to melt into the crowd and look like everyone else, then this may not be the book for you.  If, on the other hand, you've enjoyed the first book and are looking for a little guidance in adding some spice to your wardrobe whilst ensuring you are still dressing (for the most part) within the acceptable parameters required by the occasion, you may enjoy looking through this little book--bearing in mind that it provides basic guidelines only, which still must be adapted to suit one's own body-type, personality, and preferences.	2004-05-07
US	43645283	R3S09ZH8H2IMF9	0563206659	571592756	The Complete Yes Minister	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Absolutely Priceless!	It is not uncommon for writers of britcoms to supplement a successful television series with a text-based adaptation, and such is indeed what writers Jonathan Lynn and Antony Jay have done with Yes Minister (and its sequel, Yes Prime Minister).  It is uncommon, however, to find such a good one.  <br />Every bit as erudite and witty as the series upon which it is based, The Complete Yes Minister (originally published in 1984 and subtitled The Diaries of a Cabinet Minister), is ostensibly by the Right Hon. James Hacker MP (with Lynn and Jay serving merely as humble editors!).  The year is 2019--and no this is NOT science fiction!  Although Hacker kept a daily diary of his experiences and opinions whilst in office in the 1980s, the subsequent passage of time has resulted in the expiration of the Thirty-Year Rule.  What this means is that the editors (who are writing from Hacker College, Oxford, by the way!) now conveniently have access to (and are able to publish) copies of all the memos and minutes written by Sir Humphrey Appleby (amongst others)--copies of which are included in the book, thereby providing us with a perspective other than Hacker's rather narrow (and, at least initially, innocent) one.  <br />The book commences (as one would expect!) with the &quot;Editors' Note.&quot;  Lynn and Jay elaborate on the problems they encountered in editing the Diaries and how these were dealt with.  Nevertheless, they admit it falls to us ultimately to decide for ourselves whether Hacker's account represents: &quot;(a) what happened, (b) what he believed happened, (c) what he would like to have happened, (d) what he wanted others to believe happened, or (e) what he wanted others to believe that he believed happened&quot;!   The editors also include a note of thanks to Sir Humphrey (whose last days were spent in St. Dympna's Hospital for the Elderly Deranged!) for information gleaned from conversations which were held with him &quot;before the advancing years, without in any way impairing his verbal fluency, disengaged the operation of his mind from the content of his speech.&quot;  <br />The Diaries themselves are divided into twenty-one chapters (one chapter per episode) with 20 to 30 pages each (there are 514 pages in all).  Of course there is dialogue (from Hacker's recollection), but the Diaries comprise so much more.  The inclusion of copies of memos, letters, interviews, newspaper clippings, entries from Sir Humphrey's own diary, not to mention the recollections of Sir Bernard Woolley (from conversations with the editors) make for a far more dynamic, fun book than if the writers had merely presented us with the series' scripts.  The format also allows for so much of Hacker's thoughts to be included--much of which we as viewers were never privy to.  Finally, the Diaries are liberally annotated by the editors with helpful, humorously phrased bits of background information often pertaining to government workings or terminology--bits that are additional to the television series.  <br />Of course, it is being a fan of the television series and having watched it with such enjoyment that makes this book (a UK publication) such a gem as we picture Hacker, Sir Humphrey, etc., in our mind's eye.  But it is so creatively written, with all the original wit (and more), that it's a superb book in its own right--one which I'd recommend to anyone looking for an intelligent, hilariously witty, pun-filled book--one that also happens to offer a wealth of insight into the inner workings of the parliamentary system of government.  For those, however, for whom this richly witty, intelligent series is a favourite, this book (together with it's sequel) really is a must-have, and I recommend it every bit as highly as the superb series upon which it is based!	2003-12-17
US	43645283	R2ROXI6HQDW06P	0340769432	293498174	Straight Face	Books	5	19	20	N	N	An Forthright and Informative Autobiography	For many, the late Sir Nigel Hawthorne (who died on Boxing Day 2001, at age 72, after an eighteen-month battle with cancer of the pancreas) will always be remembered as the conniving, manipulative, and hilariously verbose civil servant, Sir Humphrey Appleby, co-star of Britain's witty, intelligent britcom Yes Minister (and its sequel, Yes Prime Minister).  Though he won, over the years, four BAFTA awards for his performance as Sir Humphrey, the highlights of his long career were undoubtedly, for him, receiving a CBE in 1987, an Oscar nomination in 1994 for the role of George III in the film The Madness of King George, and lastly but not least, a Knighthood in 1999. <br />Able to adroitly handle both comedy and tragedy, Hawthorne's extreme success as an actor was well deserved and no surprise (at least not to us!).  However, being shy and very self-conscious, he spent his early years as an actor living pretty much hand-to-mouth.  It was not until he was around fifty that he finally found his breakthrough with the character of Sir Humphrey, the role which brought him fame and recognition and was the catalyst his career needed.  It was also around this time that Hawthorne, having lived an essentially lonely, unhappy life, finally met Trevor Bentham, the man with whom he would at last find happiness and go on to spend the rest of his life. <br />In addition to being a gifted actor, Hawthorne is a very capable writer, and he deftly moves between a chronicling of his career and of his personal life.  He tells of growing up in Cape Town, South Africa, under an apartheid regime; of his school days at the guilt-instilling Christian Brothers' Catholic school; and of his uneasy relationship with his father--a man with no respect for the acting profession.  He's candid in discussing both his homosexuality and the difficult long-term relationship he had with a man with whom he was wholly unsuited.  He also holds back no punches when it comes to his career.  He's forthright in chronicling (albeit briefly) the horrible experience he had working on the Hollywood film Demolition Man.  The few comments he makes concerning his Yes (Prime) Minister co-star, Paul Eddington, whilst not unkind, are not particularly flattering; and he is positively scathing in his criticism of the Royal Shakespeare Company (for whom he performed King Lear), who he felt behaved appallingly, both by their lack of support and by their lack of manners.  Hawthorne devotes a fair amount of space to his discussion of the RSC and his experience doing Lear--perhaps because it was freshest in his mind (not to mention an exasperating experience).  Considering its immense popularity with the public and the fact that it signalled a turning point in his career, it is odd that he did not devote the same degree of attention to Yes (Prime) Minister, which would've been nice.  But that is merely a minor complaint in what is overall a very interesting and informative memoir.  That he even completed the book (let alone provided such a coherent, well-written account) is amazing in itself considering he started it shortly after being diagnosed with cancer and submitted the last chapter on Christmas Eve, two days before he died.  <br />The book itself is 340 pages including index (mine is the hardcover version).  It includes 16 pages of b/w photos, mostly from Hawthorne's personal collection.  There are photos of his parents and siblings, of his maternal grandmother, of him at various ages and stages in his career, of Trevor Bentham (his partner of 22 years), and of other significant people in his life.  Finally, Bentham provides a lovely four-page epilogue written after Hawthorne's death.<br />Though not a chatty memoir, like some, neither does it sacrifice accuracy for the sake of a good anecdote.  It is a candid, forthright, well-written account--one which I enjoyed reading and highly recommend to anyone interested in discovering more about the man responsible for creating one of the most memorable and enjoyable characters in British comedy.	2003-11-20
US	43645283	R29DL34MEBKN29	0752261398	975568382	"Rising Damp": A Celebration	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Simply an Outstanding Tribute to a Classic Series!	If you've enjoyed this hilarious comedy series, you will surely enjoy Richard Webber's delightful (not to mention comprehensive) tribute. With complete participation from everyone involved in the production (those surviving, of course), Webber seamlessly weaves their many anecdotes into the text. The result is a dynamic, captivating, and thoroughly satisfying look back at the series largely through their recollections and memories, and it is without a doubt one of the best tribute books I've ever read (and I've read a number of them).<br />The book includes a detailed history of the series (and the stageplay--The Banana Box--upon which it was based), with information on how the series came about, how the right atmosphere was created on the set, how the right effect was achieved for the characters through wardrobe, and so on. The book commences with a 7-page bio of writer Eric Chappell. It includes brief (one-half page or so) bios of the producers and directors, bios on each of the four main actors and the characters they portrayed (2 to 7 pages each), and brief (1 to 2 page) bios of all the actors who appeared as &quot;other tenants.&quot; A lovely inclusion are the very brief (but informative) little bios on all the other actors who appeared in the show--actors such as Diana King, Larry Martyn, Fanny Rowe, and Andrew Sachs to name a few. Indeed, it was interesting to find out what became of many of them and what other shows they've been in. <br />Also included is a complete episode guide, with summaries of each episode, the cast listing for each episode, the date of recording and of original transmission, and even the locations where rehearsals took place. A few interesting tidbits are tucked in--things like Richard Beckinsale accidentally tripping and falling into the garage door at the end of &quot;Clunk Clink,&quot; or Leonard Rossiter choking on a piece of confetti at the end of &quot;Come on in the Water's Lovely.&quot; Also included are an episode guide to every character, and a brief but memorable scene from each episode. Finally, the book includes a very informative and interesting 7-page behind-the-scenes look into the making of the movie and how it came about, with recollections of some of the cast and crew.<br />The book itself is a 6&quot; x 8 1/2&quot; 180-page hardcover and includes a detailed 5-page index. Lest anyone be disappointed by the appearance of the book, I ought to mention that it is NOT the glossy-paged, oversized, abundantly-illustrated tribute book that one may be expecting. The book looks like a typical novel or biography (ie. it's all text), with two 8-paged sets of photo inserts. All the photos are stills from the show. The first set consists of 16 colour photos, with 17 b/w stills comprising the second set. Though I admit I was a little disappointed initially with the look of the book, I very quickly discovered that what this book lacks in appearance it more than makes up for in content. Quite frankly, I'd gladly trade any of my beautiful, eye-catching tribute books for one as thorough and informative as this. Richard Webber is a very skilled, capable writer of tribute books, and this one is simply outstanding. I highly recommend it to anyone who has enjoyed this truly classic comedy series.	2003-11-16
US	43645283	R3SODB7D7E3ASI	0470832533	995183239	Becoming Vegetarian: The Complete Guide to Adopting a Healthy Vegetarian Diet	Books	5	50	50	N	N	A Perfect Primer for the Aspiring Vegetarian!	If you're considering vegetarianism but are wondering how or where to start (or even if it's a good idea) look no further than this excellent book by Canadian dietitians Vesanto Melina and Brenda Davis.  This is a wonderful primer on nutrition (and would even be good for anyone who's simply looking to improve one's diet).  <br />Published in 2003, this is a revised and extensively updated version of the 1994 original, and it is definitely the edition to get.  The book is 454 pages and contains an absolute wealth of current research that has taken place over the past decade.  As the authors state, \\"Much of what was considered mere speculation 10 years ago is now accepted fact.  We...provide more thorough guidance for readers.  Several issues that were not dealt with in the original book are addressed\\" and the recipes are refined.  The chapter headings are:<br />1.  Why Be Vegetarian.  They cover the gamut of reasons people cite for making the switch--from concerns over health and disease to concerns for the environment, economy, and rights of animals.  The latter issues are briefly but powerfully addressed, but it's very tactfully done--they're not at all judgemental or abrasive.   <BR> <BR>2.  Maximizing the Vegetarian Advantage.  A very powerful chapter dealing with the health of vegetarians and the impact of diet on diseases, including cancer, gall stones, diabetes (type 2), arthritis, and diseases of the heart, kidneys, and the GI system.  Includes nutritional recommendations for good health &amp; prevention of disease. <br />3.  Power from Plants...legumes, nuts, and seeds.  All you need to know about protein, iron and zinc in the veg diet. (One tip: Vitamin C greatly increases absorption of iron.)<br />4.  Bone Boosters...milk, greens, and other calcium champions.  How to maximize our bodies absorption and use of calcium.  (Sodium &amp; excess protein actually rob us of calcium). <br />5.  Energy Plus...goodness from grains.  A wealth of info about grains, fibre, and how to maximize nutrient absorption from grains.  (One tip:  Soak whole grains, legumes, nuts &amp; seeds overnight in lots of cold water (discard soaking water)).<br />6.  Perfect Protectors...vegetables and fuits.  Vitamin and mineral content is the focus.<br />7.  Fat Feuds...who's winning?  All you need to know about types/amounts of fat--including essential fatty acids and how to ensure we're getting them.<br />8.  Fine-tuning the Vegetarian Diet...vitamin B12<br />9.  Designing the Diet...the vegetarian food guide.  Covers food groups, recommended number of servings, serving sizes, number of calories per serving,  and how to keep a diet log (important initially to determine areas where one may be having problems).<br />10.  Vegetarian for Life.  Deals with special situations (pregnancy/lactation, infancy, childhood, teen years, and those aged 50 and over). <br />11.  Vegetarian Victory Over Weight<br />12.  Vegetarian Diplomacy<br />13.  From Markets to Meals.  Tips on where to shop, what to buy, food storage, how to make the transition to vegetarianism, and travel.  Includes substitutions for chicken broth, ground beef, gelatin, or egg for those who want to adapt non-veg recipes. <br />14.  Recipes...simple treasures.  You'll eventually want a proper veg cookbook or two, but included are a good variety of recipes to get one started plus tips on cooking grains and legumes.  The few recipes I've tried so far have been super (My favourite is Hot Tofu and Cool Greens--who'd have thought tofu could taste so yummy!).  (Tip: When cooking dry (pre-soaked) beans, do not add salt, tomato, or other highly acidic ingredients until after the beans have become tender or they'll be hard to digest!)  <br />In conclusion, this is a comprehensive, incredibly informative (not to mention interesting) guide for the person interested in learning how to become a healthy vegetarian.  Whatever your motivation--be it a desire to improve your health &amp; nutrition, to lower your risk for many diseases, to lose weight, to be more environmentally-responsible, or something else, you won't find a better (or at the time of writing a more current) resource than this fantastic book.  It's the perfect place to start.  In short, I simply cannot praise highly enough, and I recommend it unconditionally!	2003-07-12
US	43645283	RECR7ZP9X8VCH	1856195139	527496546	Lillie Langtry: Manners, masks and morals	Books	5	50	50	N	N	An Insightful Biography of a Fascinating Life	Many prefer autobiographies to biographies because they feel they are getting the \\"real\\" story--straight from the horse's mouth.  But when reading an autobio one must always remember:  We are seeing a person as he or she wishes to be seen.  This appears to have been especially true in the case of the great 19th-century beauty, Lillie Langtry, who rose from obscurity to become not only a mistress of the Prince of Wales, but a wealthy actress of international repute.  She was also a friend of (and was immortalized by) Oscar Wilde and the artists Millais and Whistler.<br />Lillie, who was born in 1853 on the Channel Island of Jersey and was gifted with arresting beauty, did not in any way, shape, or form have the life of the average woman of her time.  She succeeded as a woman in a man's world.  She also lived life in the spotlight--and what a life of scandal (which included the secret birth of an illegitimate daughter), illicit lovers, and reckless hedonism it was.<br />In 1925, four years before her death at age 75, Lillie wrote her memoirs, entitled \\"The Days I Knew.\\"  As author Laura Beatty states, there were \\"no references to the Prince of Wales as her lover...or Arthur Jones\\" (who was her childhood friend and the great love of her life).  Lillie herself remarked when criticised for the white-washing of her life:  \\"You don't really think I would ever do such a thing as to write my real reminiscences, do you?\\"  To that end, she appears to have destroyed much of her correspondence.<br />But many of the letters Lillie herself wrote have survived, and they have been relied upon extensively by Beatty.  Most notable are a bundle of Lillie's letters to her lover, Arthur Jones, that were discovered in the 1970s \\"preserved in his little green case in the attic at Portelet\\", his home in Jersey.  Beatty provides us with an abundance of \\"snippets\\" from the many letters Lillie wrote, particularly during the period of her pregnancy, and they reveal a desperate, clingy side of Lillie that we see nowhere else; certainly, they reveal a side to Lillie that she herself did not choose to show us.<br />Rather than being a chronicle of Lillie's career and achievements (as so many bios are), this is very much a book about Lillie, the person.  Though we can never know for certain how she felt in every circumstance, Beatty does a splendid job in peeling off the masks that Wilde taught her to wear, revealing the person underneath.  There have been a few other biographies written about Lillie, but having been written prior to the discovery of Jones's cache of letters, they are incomplete in their portrayal of this multi-faceted individual whose life, for all its wealth and pursuit of material pleasures was ultimately sad, lonely, and tragic.<br />The book was published in 1999 in the UK.  I have the soft-cover version, and it is 336 pages (including the index).  There are 16 pages of black-and-white photos, which include a few old family photos, photos of her artistic friends, photos of her lovers, and a photo of her daughter, Jeanne.  There are 2 portraits and 13 photos of Lillie at different ages and stages in her life and career.<br />Laura Beatty acknowledges the support of Lillie's granddaughter through the years it took her to research and write this biography.  The result is a well-researched, well-written book that is as interesting to read as it is insightful in its presentation of one of the most famous women of the 19th century.  Indeed, if you've enjoyed the outstanding British video series, \\"Lillie\\", starring Francesca Annis and are looking to delve deeper into this fascinating life, I think you'll enjoy this book.  Highly recommended.f Lillie that we see nowhere else; certainly, they reveal a side to Lillie that she herself did not choose to show us. <br />Rather than being a chronicle of Lillie's career and achievements (as so many bios are), this is very much a book about Lillie, the person.  Though we can never know for certain how she felt in every circumstance, Beatty does a splendid job in peeling off the masks that Wilde taught her to wear, revealing the person underneath.  There have been a few other biographies written about Lillie, but having been written prior to the discovery of Jones's cache of letters, they are incomplete in their portrayal of this multi-faceted individual whose life, for all its wealth and pursuit of material pleasures was ultimately sad, lonely, and tragic.   <br />The book was published in 1999 in the UK.  I have the soft-cover version, and it is 336 pages (including the index).  There are 16 pages of black-and-white photos, which include a few old family photos, photos of her artistic friends, photos of her lovers, and a photo of her daughter, Jeanne.  There are 2 portraits and 13 photos of Lillie at different ages and stages in her life and career. <br />Laura Beatty acknowledges the support of Lillie's granddaughter through the years it took her to research and write this biography.  The result is a well-researched, well-written book that is as interesting to read as it is insightful in its presentation of one of the most famous women of the 19th century.  Indeed, if you've enjoyed the outstanding British video series, \\"Lillie\\", starring Francesca Annis and are looking to delve deeper into this fascinating life, I think you'll enjoy this book.  Highly recommended.	2003-07-09
US	43645283	R3HLI4AI8DRTDB	1573223573	848656052	What Not to Wear	Books	5	126	132	N	N	An Entertaining Guide to Dressing for One�s Body-Type!	With 160 photo-filled pages of Trinny and Susannah illustrating the dos and don'ts for each each of 10 common problem areas (ie. large bust, no bust, big arms, large bottom, no waist, short legs, flabby tummy, saddlebags, short neck, and thick ankles & calves), this is the sort that will be quickly and enjoyably devoured the moment you pick it up.  Certainly, these are among the most common concerns for those with less-than-perfect physiques (although it is not an exhaustive list).  Nevertheless, this is a helpful little book, the purpose of which is to teach women how to dress to minimize flaws while tastefully accentuating the assets.  <br />Because they deal with problem areas rather than body types, however, one could end up with a situation where one has two problem areas for which the solutions are (in some cases) contradictory.  The book really is, therefore, only a guide to get you thinking about your shape and experimenting with clothing styles.  One still has to make adjustments for one's own particular combinations of flaws and assets.<br />The book begins with a very interesting and informative introduction.  Having enjoyed the BBC television series \\"What Not to Wear,\\" I was surprised to find that Susannah and, in particular, Trinny have problem areas that I certainly would never have guessed had they been less than forthright in revealing them, and they are very frank indeed in illustrating their problem areas.  <br />Because this is the sort of book that teaches through illustration, there is little in the way of text--a description of the problem area being dealt with, examples of the best and worst clothing choices, and the reasons why that choice is particularly fatal or favourable.  Though sparse on text, the book still manages to be packed with information (not to mention being very funny--I found myself chuckling throughout).  <br />There is also a shopping guide (which is, alas, strictly limited to UK shops).  Nevertheless, in the case of boutiques it is well annotated with the lines of clothing carried and the type of clientele (and in some cases body type!) they cater to.  A very helpful section for those living in or planning a visit to the UK. <br />In conclusion, if you have at least one of the problem areas discussed (and who doesn't!) and are looking to develop a dress sense that tastefully flatters your assets while hiding your flaws, you might want to check this book out. Certainly, if you've seen and enjoyed Trinny and Susannah's entertaining and informative BBC television series, you'll enjoy this book.	2003-06-23
US	43645283	RUK0EEA5B3H3U	1579590799	476147918	Fawlty Towers: Fully Booked : The Complete Story of Public Tv's Favorite Sitcom	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Lovely Tribute to an Outstanding Britcom Classic!	Intricately plotted and consummately acted with impeccable comic timing, Fawlty Towers reigns in many a mind as the ultimate situational comedy--the yardstick against which all other comedies are measured.  An interesting (though perhaps not surprising) bit of trivia: It came out at the top of the 100 most important TV programmes of all time (according to a year 2000 poll by the British Film Institute).  Certainly, it is one of the most enduring of all time.<br />The year 2000 marked the 25th anniversary of the first series of the show, and to celebrate, writers Morris Bright and Robert Ross, have penned a lovely 192-page tribute book loaded with colour photos (mostly stills from the show, but there are a few photos of the main stars at different stages in their careers).  The book covers the history of the show, which I found to be quite interesting, not to mention entertaining.  Did you know, for example, that the inspiration for the rude, abrasive Basil Fawlty came from a real-life hotelier that John Cleese (and his fellow Monty Python co-stars) had the misfortune to encounter?  Indeed, co-writer John Cleese has contributed a wealth of anecdotes on his and his fellow co-writer (and wife at the time) Connie Booth's experiences in creating and writing the series.  It will come as no surprise to fans to find that Cleese and Booth (who also played Polly, the maid) sometimes took as long as 2 1/2 weeks to draught a plot! <br />The book also includes an informative episode guide for each of the twelve episodes (which includes anecdotes and recollections by Cleese), a brief blurb on each guest star to have appeared on the show, and a two- to fourteen-page career bio of the \\"regulars\\" (ie. Basil, Sybil, Manuel, Polly, Terry (who died in 1997 of cancer at age 59), the Major, and the two old ladies). <br />As enjoyable as the book is, I must admit that I was surprised not to find more participation by the other actors--the main ones anyway.  Though the career bios are informative and Cleese's many anecdotes extend to the characters and actors portraying them, various incidents, and so on, there are no recollections or remembrances from either Connie Booth (who incidentally, having married Cleese in 1968, was divorced from him in 1976--in between series one and two) or Prunella Scales (Sybil).  Usually the writers (at the very least) participate tremendously when a tribute book is written, and I found myself wondering why Connie Booth didn't provide a few tales of her own, as it would have been lovely to have her perspective too.  Nevertheless, this is a minor point only--the book is superb in every other respect.<br />I'll just mention a couple of interesting anecdotes, which happen to concern Andrew Sachs (Manuel), who incidentally hails from Germany and seriously questioned his ability to play a Spaniard--he needn't have worried!  In the German episode, there is a fire drill during which Manuel catches fire; unfortunately, Sachs was accidentally burnt by the acid used to make his jacket smoke.  In another episode, Fawlty whacks Manuel on the head with a frying pan; unfortunately (and inexpicably!), Cleese was using a real pan (not a rubber one) with the unintentional result that Sachs had a headache for about two days!<br />In short, this is a lovely, informative book and one which I (as an enormous fan of the show) highly recommend to fellow fans.  I have the hardcover version, and it is a weighty 8 x 10 inches with thick, glossy pages.  It's a lovely keepsake--one which I think any fan of this outstanding, all-time classic series would enjoy.	2003-06-08
US	43645283	RI45Y6HHRDBYP	0563534397	476147918	Fawlty Towers: Fully Booked	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A Lovely Tribute to an Outstanding Britcom Classic!	Intricately plotted and consummately acted with impeccable comic timing, Fawlty Towers reigns in many a mind as the ultimate situational comedy--the yardstick against which all other comedies are measured.  An interesting (though perhaps not surprising) bit of trivia: It came out at the top of the 100 most important TV programmes of all time (according to a year 2000 poll by the British Film Institute).  Certainly, it is one of the most enduring of all time.<br />The year 2000 marked the 25th anniversary of the first series of the show, and to celebrate, writers Morris Bright and Robert Ross have penned a lovely 192-page tribute book loaded with colour photos (mostly stills from the show, but there are a few photos of the main stars at different stages in their careers).  The book covers the history of the show, which I found to be quite interesting, not to mention entertaining.  Did you know, for example, that the inspiration for the rude, abrasive Basil Fawlty came from a real life hotelier that John Cleese (and his fellow Monty Python co-stars) had the misfortune to encounter?  Indeed, co-writer John Cleese has contributed a wealth of anecdotes on his and his fellow co-writer (and wife at the time) Connie Booth's experiences in creating and writing the series.  It will come as no surprise to fans to find that Cleese and Booth (who also played Polly, the maid) sometimes took as long as 2 1/2 weeks to draught a plot! <br />The book also includes an informative episode guide for each of the twelve episodes (which includes anecdotes and recollections by Cleese), a brief blurb on each guest star to have appeared on the show, and a two- to fourteen-page career bio of the \\"regulars\\" (ie. Basil, Sybil, Manuel, Polly, Terry (who died in 1997 of cancer at age 59), the Major, and the two old ladies). <br />As enjoyable as the book is, I must admit that I was surprised not to find more participation by the other actors--the main ones anyway.  Though the career bios are informative and Cleese's many anecdotes extend to the characters and actors portraying them, various incidents, and so on, there are no recollections or remembrances from either Connie Booth (who incidentally, having married Cleese in 1968, was divorced from him in 1976--in between series one and two) or Prunella Scales (Sybil).  Usually the writers (at the very least) participate tremendously when a tribute book is written, and I found myself wondering why Connie Booth didn't provide a few tales of her own, as it would have been lovely to have her perspective too.  Nevertheless, this is a minor point only--the book is superb in every other respect.<br />I'll just mention a couple of interesting anecdotes, which happen to concern Andrew Sachs (Manuel), who incidentally hails from Germany and seriously questioned his ability to play a Spaniard--he needn't have worried!  In the German episode, there is a fire drill during which Manuel catches fire; unfortunately, Sachs was accidentally burnt by the acid used to make his jacket smoke.  In another episode, Fawlty whacks Manuel on the head with a frying pan; unfortunately (and inexpicably!), Cleese was using a real pan (not a rubber one) with the unintentional result that Sachs had a headache for about two days!<br />In short, this is a lovely, informative book and one which I (as an enormous fan of the show) highly recommend to fellow fans.  I have the hardcover version, and it is a weighty 8 x 10 inches with thick, glossy pages.  It's a lovely keepsake--one which I think any fan of this outstanding, all-time classic series would enjoy.	2003-05-31
US	43645283	R1U2MSDRJYRCOM	157322202X	234989381	The Dream of Scipio	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Erudite, Thought-Provoking, Insightful Novel (4.5 Stars)	Set in the Provencal region in and around Avignon in the South of France during three critical junctures in history--times when the very fabric of society was disintigrating--the Dream of Scipio by British author Iain Pears is an unusual, thought-provoking novel that skilfully interweaves three stories which, though separated by centuries, are united by the urgency of their respective times and by the philosophy contained in a manuscript.  <br />The oldest story takes place during the demise of the Roman Empire in the 5th century when the Empire's control over Gaul (modern-day France) was being eroded by Barbarian forces.  Particularly, the story is set during the period when the Provencal region in issue was on the brink of invasion by opposing Barbarian kings (by the Burgundians on one side and the Visigoths on the other).  The next story on the timeline takes place in the 14th century during the brief period in history when the papal court was situated in the city of Avignon; particulary, the story is set during that terrifying period when the Black Death swept through the region, swiftly and horrifically annihilating nearly everyone in its path.  The most recent story takes place in the 20th century during the German occupation of France during World War II.<br />This is a story that examines the nature of civilised society and its relationship to barbarism.  A dominant parallel between the stories concerns the attitude toward and treatment of the Jews during these three distinct yet similar periods.  Pears challenges us by means of this parallel to ponder over what it really means to call oneself civilised.  <BR> <BR>This is also a story about love and apathy, loyalty and betrayal, friendship and sacrifice.  It is a story about the moral dilemma faced by those placed in the unenviable position of having to choose when the alternatives are of the \\"damned if I do and damned if I don't\\" variety.  It is a story about moral (or amoral) choices made which jolt the reader into asking:  Does the end (whatever and however noble it may be) necessarily justify the means? Specifically (and paradoxically), what if the means of achieving is directly opposed to--is indeed antithetical to--that which one hopes to achieve?  Are there some things that are worth having at any cost or are there are some prices that are simply too high to pay?  <br />At just under 400 pages, this is a complex, intelligent, and intellectually satisfying novel.  It is not, however, a novel for everyone.  It is neither a happy tale nor a light read, and it is certainly not the sort of book that can be put down for days at a time.  The complexity of both the structure as well as the subject matter require attentive daily reading in order to keep a firm hold of the threads of each story, and I personally found it required a certain amount of discipline initially to do just that.  (That said, I also found the novel to be unputdownable for the last 100 pages or so.)  <br />This is very much a thinking person's novel--one which generates questions and encourages reflection and discussion (and would, I think, be an excellent selection for those involved in a book discussion group).  Erudite and thought-provoking, this is a novel which, at least in my opinion, is well worth the time, initial effort, and reflection demanded of it.	2003-04-28
US	43645283	R34WCKRUPHZ98K	0316766844	640308649	Resurrection Men: An Inspector Rebus Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Really Good Crime Novel (4.5 stars)	This is the first novel I've read by Scottish author Ian Rankin; as a result, this review is bound to be more applicable to those who, like me, are newcomers to Rankin.  <br />Firstly, I really enjoyed this novel which, though a murder mystery, is very different from any other murder mystery I've ever read.  Not only is it loaded with dialogue, but we view the entire story from the perspective of two police officers--John Rebus and his erstwhile partner Siobhan Clarke.  It's unusual to get no description of any events from, at the very least, an objective, omnicient perspective.  But don't think the story suffers as a result, for it doesn't.  It was just unusual (at least from my perspective).<br />Secondly, if you've never read a Rebus novel, you won't be handicapped at all.  I don't know how much of what we're told (ie. about prior relationships or previous cases) was the more in-depth subject of previous novels, but Rankin makes sure that we have all the information we need in order to understand and enjoy this novel even if we've never read any of the previous ones.  (And I don't believe he spoils things in case you want to go back and read the earlier books.)<br />As for the story itself, Rebus has been sent back to \\"training school\\" for insubordination.  Five other officers from various locales in Scotland are on the course with him, and it is in the course of their rehabilitation that they are given an old unsolved case to work on as a team.  In the interim, Siobhan has taken over from Rebus on a new murder investigation.  I know I'm not saying much, but I really can't say anything more without spoiling things.  Suffice it to say, there are quite a few twists which make for an interesting story, and Rebus (as becomes clear quite early on) is a fairly complex character, for whom nothing is entirely black or white.  I for one was not entirely sure just which side of the law he was on; frankly, I'm still not.  For him the world exists, more than for most, in shades of grey.  It would appear that Siobhan is beginning to come to that realisation too.<br />In conclusion, although I'm not familiar with previous Rebus stories, I think it's a fairly safe bet that fans of Rankin's previous novels will not be disappointed with this one.  Rankin tells a good tale, and I for one will be keeping an eye out for future novels.	2003-01-30
US	43645283	R1K39KFK9L3VXH	0712684409	157494945	Title: 'PARCEL ARRIVED SAFELY, TIED WITH STRING'	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Thoroughly Entertaining and Engaging Autobiography!	Though I've not read many autobiographies, this has without a doubt been the most entertaining that I've read thus far; indeed, at times it is simply hilarious.  Michael Crawford's career is meticulously chronicled from its beginnings (he started out as a child performer) through to and including the international super-stardom he achieved with his coveted role as the Phantom in Andrew Lloyd Webber's hit musical, The Phantom of the Opera.  In the process, he tells of his short and disillusioning stint doing Hollywood movies in the late 60s/early 70s.  He recounts the huge television success he had in Britain in the 70s with Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em (and the hilarious upshot--hilarious for us, that is--of being nationally recognised as and taken for a disaster-prone half-wit!).  Crawford went on to forge a name for himself in the 70s and 80s as a formidable lead in musicals (the culmination of which was, of course, his role as the Phantom).  Greatest of all, though, was the tremendous honour of receiving an OBE in 1987.<br />Crawford, who was born in 1942, is extremely candid--even quite personal at times--as he recounts his life story, and sharing the limelight with his professional life are the many recollections he shares about his personal life.  There are a great many happy and humorous memories (and even some embarrassing ones), but he doesn't hold back from sharing with us the painful memories as well--like his mother's unhappy marriage to his step-father, or the death of his beloved mother and grandmother. <br />What really makes this autobiography stand above the others I've read are the many humorous anecdotes that infuse Crawford's recollections of both his personal and professional life.  He was a practical joker and a bit of a clown as a child--traits which he continued (thankfully!) to embrace wholeheartedly as an adult.  That combined with his love for daring stunts result in some absolutely hilarious experiences that are rendered all the more enjoyable for being so engagingly told.  <br />This 329-page hardcover has 24 pages of black-and-white photos, many of which are from Crawford's own private collection.  There are photos of Crawford as a baby and as a child, photos of his mom with her first husband (who sadly died in the war after only a year of marriage), photos of his grandmother with each of her two husbands, photos of his two daughters at different stages in their lives, photos of his then-wife, and photos of Crawford--shots of him with his various co-stars or shots of him in his various productions--from the many stages in his career.  Though published in 1999, Crawford ends his story in 1990, following his last appearance as the Phantom in Los Angeles.  It would've been nice if he'd brought things up to date, but I suppose one cannot fault him for wanting to end his story on what has been (at least to this point in time) the apex of his career. <br />In conclusion, I heartily recommend this delightful autobiography to all fans of Michael Crawford.  His engaging style reveals a man who is a very capable story-teller, and he certainly has no shortage of entertaining stories to tell.	2003-01-19
US	43645283	R3BQIDZQ03F13A	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	5	124	130	N	N	An Intelligent and Unforgettable Historical Page-Turner!	With a huge, colourful cast of characters, The Quincunx by British author Charles Palliser is, like Edward Rutherfurd's London, the kind of book that comes along all too rarely--a book wherein one loses all sense of the present as one is transported back through history to another time and place.  This is a novel that is at once a family saga, an adventure, and a mystery with plenty of twists and surprises.  With it, Palliser has proven himself to be a master storyteller, and it has been a long time since I have enjoyed a book as much as this.  In fact, I'm not sure it didn't surpass London--another historical of epic proportions that I highly recommend--as my favourite novel by a contemporary author. (I ought to mention I've yet to read Eco's The Name of the Rose).  <br />At 781 pages, however, this historical masterpiece set in early nineteenth-century England is not for the faint of heart.  At stake is a legacy--title to a huge estate of land.  Though the story literally takes place during the span of several years, it is a tale about an extended family (and their relationships with one another) whose beginnings take us back five generations.  Bit by bit the family history is revealed--and it is a history rife with intrigue, double dealings, scandal, and even murder.  What makes the revelation of the family history so exciting and so important is its relevance to the novel's present, for not only is the identity of our young protagonist and narrator, Johnnie Mellamphy, at issue, but his very survival hangs delicately in the balance. <br />Those for whom this engrossing, unputdownable novel will be a special treat are those who enjoy solving word or logic puzzles (I am a puzzle buff myself).  To be enjoyed to its fullest, this is a book that benefits from active participation on the part of the reader; indeed, it is (in my opinion) to a certain extent mandatory.  As the story unfolds, Palliser provides the reader with both outright information and clues (some of which are quite subtle) as to who's who, what really happened, and why.  Palliser enjoys teasing us, and some of his subtle clues result in our drawing the wrong (though perfectly plausible) conclusions.  At other times (particularly near the end), he refuses to spell things out for us, leaving us to rifle back to previous parts for a confirmation (and perhaps even an explanation) of what happened.  For those with ready access to such, Palliser would even have one delving into reference books in order to find the dates when certain events occurred (like Johnnie's birth, for example), for they are all revealed by reference to other events which occurred at or around the same time.  <br />I might just mention:  I found it very helpful to create a family tree (in pencil!) as the geneology unfolded--be it from village gossip, facts, or my own suppositions.  I also set out who would inherit if certain conditions were met and identified these individuals on the tree.  Very early on, I began to dog-ear important passages that I thought I may wish to refer back to (to make the rifling back process easier!).  Most importantly, I found this to be the sort of book that benefits from reflection, for it is by logically following an idea through in one's mind that one can reach a number of accurate conclusions ahead of the protagonist.  Don't think that this will ruin the surprises for you, for it won't.  Palliser, I have no doubt, expects no less of us.<br />In conclusion, I highly, HIGHLY recommend this to anyone looking for an intelligent, captivating, masterfully written novel.  I simply cannot praise it highly enough.  It is not, however, for the individual who expects to be spoon-fed by an author.  In other words, if you are looking for something one can read while putting the brain in neutral, you'd best look elsewhere.  With this novel, what you get out of it is directly proportionate to what you put into it!	2002-12-21
US	43645283	R326BOO3SL5BSN	0679601686	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Modern Library)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Lovely Edition of a Classic Novel!	Someone once said that a classic work of literature is one which everyone loves to be able to acknowledge having read but which no one actually enjoys reading.  To be fair, there is some justification in this sentiment, as many classic novels are not readily accessable to readers not versed in various literary devices, symbolism, and so on.  Fortunately, Pride and Prejudice does NOT fall into that category.  It is a novel which has an interesting, captivating story that is easily accessible and humorous yet intelligent, insightful and extremely witty--in short, it's a novel which is a joy to read and re-read.  It is also my favourite Austen novel.<br />Briefly, for those unfamiliar with the novel, the story concerns Miss Elizabeth Bennet, a spirited, quick-witted and intelligent (not to mention beautiful) young woman from a family of modest means, and the wealthy Mr. Darcy, a handsome but very reserved and indeed proud young man.  Darcy falls in love with Elizabeth albeit against his will (for he deems her to be socially inferior and cannot abide her silly mother and sisters).  Elizabeth (who displays a quickness to judge others based on appearances and \\"first impressions\\"), however, does not care for the arrogant, proud, ill-mannered Mr. Darcy.  It is the tension between these two main characters that comprises the central story and gives it its spark.  I won't say any more, for I don't wish to give the story away.  Suffice it to say that although it takes place some 200 years ago, it is every bit as relevant today as it was then, for human nature is no different now than it ever was.<br />Now to address the merits of this particular edition.  (As reviews unfortunately are posted next to all editions, regardless of the one to which they may apply, the edition to which I refer is the hardcover Modern Library edition with the picture of Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle on the cover).  Generally, when one is looking to purchase a hardcover of one of the classics it is because one is looking for an edition that will be a more permanent addition to his or her library--one that looks nice and that can, perhaps, be passed on to future generations.  Personally, my first choice for hardcovers of the classics are those published by the Folio Society.  Having said that, this edition has a lot to recommend it.  Most importantly, it is printed on acid-free paper, so it will last without the pages turning brown (unlike those nice-looking but disappointingly cheap-quality bargain hardcovers one usually finds on the sale table in one's local bookstore).<br />Secondly, the print is beautifully crisp and clear.  The print is not as large as one might hope for in a hardcover, but it is a vast improvement over the cheap \\"mass market\\" type paperbacks.  Actually, I was surprised to find that it's only minimally smaller than my Easton Press edition, although the lines are further apart in the latter edition (which does make a bit of a difference).<br />As if that's not enough to recommend this edition, it has the added benefit of being housed in a very attractive dust jacket which looks beautiful alongside the BBC/A&E video collection--the definitive dramatisation of the novel and definitely a must-see.  (This edition was initially released as a companion to the video collection).<br />In conclusion, I give 5 stars for the story, and I have no hesitation in giving 5 stars for the Modern Library edition of the novel--it's a lovely edition.  Considering the quality, it is very well priced--definitely good value for one's money.  And for those who've steered clear of the classics for fear that they must necessarily be dull and incomprehensible, give this novel a try--I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. Highly recommended!	2002-09-27
US	43645283	R3RYQTCYBO919H	014028009X	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Quintessentially British Humour at its Absolute Best!	Bridget Jones's Diary is one of the funniest, most enjoyable novels that I've read.  I don't often break out in audible bursts of laughter when reading, but I couldn't help doing so with this one.  It is a very modern story, and it is, at least to my mind, in many ways on par with the brilliantly-directed, hilarious British comedy-drama television series Cold Feet.  The story and characters are very different, of course, but it has the same flavour and feel (for lack of a better description!); suffice it to say, if you are familiar with and enjoy Cold Feet, you'll enjoy this novel.<br />Bridget is a chain-smoking, alcohol-swilling, overly weight-conscious, man-obsessing, 30-something &quot;singleton&quot; with an addiction to self-help books and chocolate.  She is also one of the most delightfully entertaining characters one could hope to come across.   Some of the situations she gets herself into--well, they are just hilarious.  But the book is more than just a comedy of errors, misunderstandings and mishaps.  It is also highly insightful--both with respect to men and women (and I should imagine a lot of men would find this book enjoyable too).  So far as women are concerned, however, I can't imagine anyone who could not find something to relate to in Bridget's character (whether or not one smokes, drinks, etc.).  So long as one has spent at least a portion of one's life single, one will be able to relate.  Indeed, it is that bond, that ability to relate that makes Bridget both so hilarious and so endearing, for ultimately it is ourselves, our own foibles, insecurities and obsessive moments that we are chuckling at.  <br />The novel covers one full year in Bridget's life, with one month per chapter.  It is written in diary format, which is a wonderful way of structuring the novel as it allows for a lot of humour to come through in ways that would be impossible otherwise.  Never fear, though, for the diary entries are more for the reader's benefit and enjoyment rather than being that which one would actually write, with the result that chunks of it read like a novel complete with &quot;recollected&quot; dialogue.<br />Although a familiarity with Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice is not necessary for the enjoyment of this novel, a familiarity with that work (particularly with the BBC/A&amp;E dramatisation featuring Colin Firth) does enhance one's appreciation and enjoyment of this novel as it is, in fact, a very loose (and modern) parody of Pride and Prejudice (with actual reference being made to that particular dramatisation).<br />In short, I enjoyed this novel (and its sequel Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason) immensely, and I recommend both novels extremely highly.  I particulary recommend them to those who enjoy British humour at its absolute best, for the humour here is quintessentially British.  It simply does not, at least in my opinion, get any better than Bridget Jones!	2002-09-24
US	43645283	RZJV84Z4V8YQ2	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	An Absolutely Wonderful Sequel!  Hilarious and Insightful!	The story in Bridget Jones's Diary continues (again in diary format) in Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason with the events of the following year.  This novel is longer (by 110 pages in my version) and the chapters are not broken down into months.  (In some cases we follow Bridget's life day by day; sometimes there may be a break of weeks or even months).  <br />I should begin by saying that I absolutely loved Bridget Jones's Diary.  I was sceptical about this novel's ability to be as good as the first (as sequels so rarely are in my experience).  But I was so pleasantly surprised to find that I enjoyed this novel every bit as much as the first--maybe even more, if that's possible.  There is a deeper, meatier story in this one by comparison with the first.  Also, one's emotions are tugged at in this one far more than in the first novel, with one of the characters (I will not mention whom) being a real snake in the grass.  The result was that although I hated to put the first novel down, with this one I simply could not put it down.  And Pride and Prejudice fans (of which I am one!) will NOT be disappointed--particularly those who've enjoyed the BBC/A&amp;E miniseries starring Colin Firth! <br />I don't wish to give the story and the many cute (and often hilarious) little surprises away.  Suffice it to say that these two novels are two of the funniest and most insightful that I've read.  As is typical of British humour, they are novels to be read and reread.  If you enjoyed Bridget Jones's Diary at all, this novel is an absolute must-read.  I cannot praise it highly enough, and I recommend it most highly!	2002-09-24
US	43645283	R20XSP3S4OQDRQ	014025157X	226544947	The Making of Pride and Prejudice (BBC)	Books	5	108	110	N	N	A Must-Have Behind-the-Scenes Companion Book!	For anyone who has enjoyed the outstanding rendition of Jane Austen's classic novel starring Colin Firth and Jennifer Ehle, this delightful, informative, eye-opening (and often humorous) behind-the-scenes book is a must have.  I for one had no idea of what is involved in successfully adapting a classic period novel, and I am grateful to producer Sue Birtwistle and script editor Susie Conklin for taking us through the entire process.<br />Chapters include \\"The Script,\\" which deals with the many difficulties that had to be overcome in adapting a novel effectively to an entirely different medium, while \\"Pre-production\\" deals with casting the actors and finding and securing suitable locations (no mean feat in itself!).  We also discover what many senior behind-the-scenes personnel do.  \\"Production Design\\" deals with the hands-on task of getting the locations ready--whether it's designing and creating a set or stripping a real-life location of all its 20th century trimmings (from unsuitable flowers, antennae and phone lines on the exterior to central heating pipes, light switches, electric light bulbs, and inappropriate furnishings on the inside).  Tremendous research was involved in both \\"Production Design\\" and \\"Costume, Make-Up, and Hair Design\\".  The latter chapter deals with decisions that had to be made concerning the palettes and styles of costume and hair for each actor.  One also learns about the expensive and painstaking wig-making process and discovers that not only were the costumes made, but so were the fabrics!<br />The chapter entitled \\"Filming\\" chronicles the steps to be taken and the difficulties often incurred on the day of filming--things like checking the weather (and having contingency plans for rainy days) or requesting local air force bases not to fly over the location.  With 12- to 16-hour workdays per person, the filming day is long indeed.  For the actors, it's two-hours in make-up followed by 10 or 11 hours of actual filming.  After filming, thecrew must then prepare for the next day--with chores like washing and setting wigs, cleaning costumes, and packing up props and horses!  Finally, \\"Post-production\\" deals with the months of work involved in editing, inserting sound tracks, and so on, to get the final product ready for the screen.<br />It's always nice when the authors of behind-the-scenes' books have the full support of all involved in the production (from cast to crew), and such is most certainly the case here.  In fact, the book is rife with their many quotations and anecdotes, with certain members of the crew even contributing paragraphs describing the work they do and the process by which they achieve their goals.  Last but not least, there is a full nine-page \\"Conversation with Colin Firth,\\" set in question and answer format, wherein Firth provides an insight into how he went about capturing what he felt was the essence of Darcy and the difficulties he experienced along the way.<br />This is a beautiful 9 3/4\\" x 7 1/2\\" 117-page softcover.  Good quality paper is used, and it is simply filled to the brim with lovely fine-quality colour photos--stills from the series,  posed photos of some of the actors in full costume, photos of the actors being made up and the sets being prepared, photos of the filming process and of various crew members, and so on.  A nice touch was the tiny b/w studio photos of the actors' faces--how they look in real life (which is very different in most cases!) <br />In conclusion, I found this to be a simply fascinating book, and one that without a doubt increases one's appreciation of this (and indeed all period dramas) tenfold.  It's a book to be treasured, and I highly recommend it.  If I have but one word of advice, it is this:  Get this book now--before it goes out of print (as companion books so often do)!	2002-09-09
US	43645283	R2Q6ISG3U7S73L	0451163540	849999685	Triple (Signet)	Books	5	215	220	N	N	A First-Rate Political Suspense Thriller!	So far as captivating page-turners go, few writers of popular fiction can top Ken Follett when he is at his best, and though I've not read all his novels, I definitely consider Triple (a political thriller) to be one of the best of those I've read.  (Other favourites of mine are A Dangerous Fortune and The Third Twin--and I am eager to read The Pillars of the Earth).  <br />Briefly (and without giving anything away), the plot centres around three secret agents--one from Israel's Mossad, one from Russia's KGB, and one from Egypt's Intelligence Agency.  It involves the arms race between the Israelis and the Arabs and takes place in 1968.  I really can say no more other than to mention that one of these groups has an idea for ensuring that it remains a competitor in that race, and the method the agent has for bringing that idea to fruition (and this is what the novel is all about) is complex and really quite ingenious.  <br />Stripped to its most basic level, this could be said to be something of a cat and mouse story.  However, there is so very much more to it than that, for Follett is a master storyteller who not only excels in deftly handling relationships between individuals (no mean feat in itself!) but is simply brilliant at creating characters that the reader cares about and hence in writing novels that one hates to reach the end of.    <br />Though not a light read, this novel is certainly enlightening.  I, for one, learned a fair bit about Middle Eastern politics and something about nuclear weaponry.  Further, I felt Follett did a splendid job of conveying the political situation from the points of view of both the Israelis and the Palestinians in a manner that simultaneously evoked both sympathy for and censure of both sides.  It's a sensitive topic (perhaps even more so now than in 1979 when the novel was first published) and one in which Follett's skill as a writer really shines through.<br />Highly recommended to fans of Ken Follett in general, to fans ofthe spy genre in particular, and to anyone who enjoys a consumately written (and insightful) thriller!	2002-08-21
US	43645283	R3KC3WDVK1BVZV	0786708220	979018861	A Dish Taken Cold	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A Delightful Appetizer to a Superb Novel	Set against the backdrop of the French Revolution, this 73-page novella marks a departure from the Victorian era one has come to associate with British novelist Anne Perry.  The story roughly covers the period from the storming of the Tuileries on 10 August 1792 to the the storming of the prisons (and massacre of those within) on 2 September 1792.  (The Tuileries, for those unfamiliar with this period, was where the royal family had hitherto been \\"kept\\"--though with comparatively relaxed security to that which was to come.)  <br />Being so short, there is of course less in the way of character development and the social and political issues are not fleshed out in nearly as much depth as we would otherwise get in a novel.  However, the story itself (which is not a murder mystery, by the way) is an interesting one, of which I'll say no more than that it deals with the issue of revenge.  Even though I (unlike Celie, the protagonist) had my suspicions of what was going on right from the beginning, I didn't find it spoiled my enjoyment of the story, as its real importance is in enabling us to witness the development of Celie's character, her guilt, her shame, and subsequently the choices she makes and the actions she takes.   <br />Those who have read this little book may be interested to know that the story continues with a full-fledged murder mystery novel entitled The One Thing More (a 2000 UK publication), which by the way is my favourite Anne Perry novel so far (though I confess I've only read a few of her later Pitt novels).  Those who've not read A Dish Taken Cold will not miss anything should they choose to jump straight into The One Thing More, for everything that occurs in the novella is provided to the reader by way of background information in the novel.  But I did find A Dish Taken Cold served as a nice little appetizer; it introduces us to Celie (and a few other characters), and it helps us to understand her just a little bit better.  <br />One final thing,for those interested in background reading of the period leading up to and covering the early years of the French Revolution (ie. the period covered in these two books), I strongly recommend Antonia Fraser's captivating book entitled Marie Antoinette: The Journey.  It's not mandatory reading, of course, but I always find historical novels all the more interesting when one has familiarised oneself with the period in question.  I find this to be especially true with Anne Perry's books, as her characters (at least in the novels I've read) usually engage in debates and discussions of various contemporary issues.	2002-06-28
US	43645283	RERWPT8MXW1QP	038548948X	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	5	145	152	N	N	A First-Rate Historical Biography!	This is only the second book that I've read by Antonia Fraser, the other one being her last, Faith and Treason.  Although I enjoyed that book well enough (for Fraser is a very capable writer, able to both capture and hold the reader's attention), I was more than a little uncomfortable with the obvious bias that shone through an otherwise excellent treatment of England's Gunpowder Plot.  I was hesitant, therefore, about purchasing this one; but as it turned out, I thoroughly enjoyed this 488-page hardcover (with 429 pages of actual text).  I found it to be enthralling, captivating, eye-opening, informative, and insightful, making it a joy to read and a book that I could not wait to get back to.  Additionally, it is amply illustrated (48 pages, mostly colour), and I found Fraser's treatment to be fairly thorough (though perhaps not quite so thorough as I've come to expect with Alison Weir's books).  Most importantly, I came away from the book with not only a greater knowledge and understanding of (not to mention sympathy for) one of the most famous women in history, but a much deeper understanding of the French Revolution and of the various factors leading up to it.  <br />Fraser does write in a manner that is sympathetic to Antoinette.  I do feel authors of historical subjects ought to be as objective as possible; perhaps, though, it is as Fraser says:  &quot;[I]s [looking without passion] really possible with regard to the career and character of Marie Antoinette?&quot; (p. 422).  This was a woman who, in her lifetime, was either greatly admired or vehemently loathed (sentiments which don't seem to have softened much with the passage of time).  More significantly, however, this was a woman who was clearly maligned.  Like the rest of us, she had her faults (which are certainly not glossed over by Fraser), but surely no one who has even an ounce of compassion (whether he or she be detractor or admirer) could think that this woman deserved the callous treatment she received and the abject humiliations to which she was subjected.  <br />Antoinette appears, in spite of her faults, to have been primarily a compassionate and kind-hearted (if not overly intelligent) woman.  Nevertheless, she had the misfortune of being by accident of birth of royal blood (and Austrian blood at that) and, by the machinations of a domineering mother, queen consort to the king of France at a time when the French court was, in essence, an opulent fish bowl.  As a result, Antoinette had the additional misfortune of being at the mercy of libelists intent on her destruction (at a time when there were obviously no libel laws).  With reference to Louis XVI, Fraser makes a comment equally applicable to Antoinette:  She was hated, not for what she did, but for who she was (ie. a foreigner and a representative of the old order).  Any legitimate faults she may have had were, it would seem, merely surplus to requirement for a woman who already had more than enough black marks against her.<br />Those who think that horror and tragedy are the domain of novelists would be well advised to think again.  Just as fiction can scarcely approach the horror of recent world events, there is nothing in the realm of fiction that can even come close to the attitudes, injustices, abominations, and humiliations that occurred during the French Revolution to humankind in general and French royalty in particular.  If you've steered clear of history books before for fear that they must, by necessity, be dry and boring, I can't recommend this book highly enough.  And if you've enjoyed it, I strongly recommend Stephen Coote's highly-readable Royal Survivor (on the life of England's Charles II) or anything by Alison Weir.  For me, this book has awakened a hunger to learn more about late 18th century Europe and some of Antoinette's more colourful contemporaries (such as England`s George III and Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire).	2002-06-13
US	43645283	RAR3BQT7RGQ5D	0233999442	366862504	Rising Damp: The Complete Scripts	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Best Book of Scripts I've Read to Date!	Never have I enjoyed a book of scripts more than this one, which contains the original scripts to the entire series (28 episodes in all) of Rising Damp.  I say the \\"original\\" scripts because changes were made to some of the scripts during rehearsals, during filming, or prior to transmission.  In addition to minor changes, an entire scene was eliminated in a few cases, and in at least one instance a scene was added, and it is interesting to read the scripts the way writer Eric Chappell originally intended.<br />While the dialogue in the scripts is clever and witty and makes for enjoyable and relaxing bedtime reading, it is particularly nice to have the scripts for reference in conjunction with viewing the series.  There is a large amount of physical comedy in the series which is at most only alluded to in the scripts, with phrases such as \\"Rigsby demonstrates\\" or \\"Rigsby winces.\\"  Although I appreciated Leonard Rossiter's comic genius the first time I saw the series, my appreciation has only deepened for having read the scripts.  It wasn't until then that I realised just how very little guidance was provided in the scripts and conversely how very much of the interpretation and antics were down to Rossiter himself.  As Chappell himself says of Rossiter:  \\"I may have provided the words, but he provided the punctuation. His whole body would form a question mark, the twist of his head was an exclamation, his eyes blazed italics, and the open-mouthed stare was a line of dots going into infinity\\" (p. 9).  <br />Another nice feature of the book that sets it apart from the other books of scripts I've come across is the introductory materials provided by Chappell.  There is a two-page general introduction and a further two pages of comments on the actors.  There are also 3-4 pages introducing each of the four series, wherein Chappell tells us specifics about the creation of each series and the episodes.  Much of the information provided will be familiar to those who have readRichard Webber's excellent tribute book, Rising Damp A Celebration.   Nevertheless, there is much fresh material in this book, particularly regarding the specifics of individual episodes.  <br />Finally, this 543-page book contains 16 pages of photos, 14 of which contain colour stills from the series and 2 of which are b/w shots of Chappell.  The book concludes with a cast list for each episode and includes the dates of recording and original transmission as well as rehearsal locations.  Highly recommended to fans of the series.	2002-05-13
US	43645283	RWRDPVD7MP4P5	0743218701	784394386	Wendy Richard... No 'S': My Life Story	Books	5	17	18	N	N	An Interesting and Informative Autobiography	Whether one is familiar with her as Miss Brahms on Are You Being Served? or as Pauline on Eastenders, fans of either show are sure to enjoy this lively and very personal memoir of (and by) actress Wendy Richard. <br />From her early years as the only child of somewhat nomadic parents in the licensing trade through to her courageous (and successful) battle in 1996 with breast cancer and her recent MBE award, Wendy is very frank and upfront in chronicling both her personal life and her career.  She tells of her deep love for her parents and how the tragic loss of her father while she was still a child resulted in hardship for her and her mother.  Following the deterioration and death of her mother around 1973, Wendy embarked on a series of disastrous relationships (three of which were marriages) that spanned a period of more than twenty years, and Wendy takes us through it all.<br />As an interesting touch, Wendy chronicles the story of Pauline (the character whom she has portrayed on the soap opera Eastenders since 1985) at the same time as she chronicles her own life story.  Pauline has been a huge part of Wendy's life and she seems to feel a real attachment to the character.  I am not a soap fan and have never seen Eastenders; nevertheless, Wendy's own life reads so much like a soap opera itself that the parallel story is somewhat appropriate, and I rather enjoyed her account of it.  <br />The book contains 24 pages of photos (colour and b/w).  There are a few stills from AYBS?, but most of the photos are from Wendy's own collection--photos of her parents, of her as a child, of friends and fellow cast members, of her precious pooch named Shirley (Wendy is a committed animal lover!), and of her at various functions and events.<br />In conclusion, I thoroughly enjoyed this autobiography--so much so that I had trouble putting it down.  Wendy comes across as a very down-to-earth and caring person, and one can practically hear that distinctive (and delightful) \\"Cockney\\"accent as one reads!  When I finished the book, I felt, quite honestly, like I'd just finished a lovely letter from a dear friend.  Very highly recommended to fans of AYBS? or of Eastenders.	2002-04-23
US	43645283	R2HMF1GNO50N03	0060975962	522032468	The Darling Buds of May: The Pop Larkin Chronicles/3 Novels in 1 (Pbs Tie-In)	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Golden Drop of English Sunshine!	Within this book's 331 pages are the first three of five novels in H.E. Bates' &quot;Pop Larkin&quot; series:  The Darling Buds of May, A Breath of French Air, and When the Green Woods Laugh.  For anyone looking for a light, sunny, happy, warm-hearted, gently-humourous book, I just cannot recommend this one highly enough.  In fact, it's one of the few books that can easily be read and reread again.<br />The novels are set in rural England of the 1950s and centre around Pop and Ma Larkin (actually they're not married, but somehow it just never seems to matter) and their brood of six (make that seven) children.  The world in which they live can only be described as a pastoral paradise.  Although we get an inkling that the Larkin's farm is, in reality, rather like a junkyard, the novels are a testament to that old saying that life is 90% attitute and 10% circumstance.  We see the farm and its surroundings and inhabitants largely through Pop's rose-coloured perspective.  As a result, we escape into a world of fragrant golden buttercups and bluebells, into fields of plump, ripe strawberries, and into a kitchen that endlessly emits the heavenly, mouthwatering aromas of Ma's rich, delectable country meals. <br />Pop is quite a character, and his sunny, carefree disposition and overwhelming generosity, together with his acute focus on the sensory delights of his surroundings, imbue the book with a sense of warmth and beauty that one seldom finds in novels.  Pop and Ma take life as they find it and people as they find them, and they never seem to let anything rattle them.  Though it's never spelled out, one gets the feeling that life is simply too short a journey to spend it focussing on the bumps one incurs along the way.  <br />I discovered this lovely series through watching the wonderful dramatisation starring David Jason (as Sidney &quot;Pop&quot; Larkin) and Catherine Zeta Jones (as his daughter Mariette), which I also highly recommend.  Whether or not you've seen thedramatisation, if you're looking for a cheery, thoroughly relaxing and thoroughly enjoyable read, you'll enjoy this sweet book.  In short, it's absolutely &quot;perfick&quot;!	2002-04-02
US	43645283	R1P0Q8QSJ5B4ZL	0060975962	522032468	The Darling Buds of May: The Pop Larkin Chronicles/3 Novels in 1 (Pbs Tie-In)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	&quot;Perfick&quot; for Chasing Away those Winter Blues!	Within this book's 331 pages are the first three of five novels in H.E. Bates' &quot;Pop Larkin&quot; series:  The Darling Buds of May, A Breath of French Air, and When the Green Woods Laugh.  For anyone looking for a light, sunny, happy, warm-hearted, gently-humourous book, I just cannot recommend this one highly enough.  In fact, it's one of the few books that can easily be read and reread again.<br />The novels are set in rural England of the 1950s and centre around Pop and Ma Larkin (actually they're not married, but somehow it just never seems to matter) and their brood of six (make that seven) children.  The world in which they live can only be described as a pastoral paradise.  Although we get an inkling that the Larkin's farm is, in reality, rather like a junkyard, the novels are a testament to that old saying that life is 90% attitute and 10% circumstance.  We see the farm and its surroundings and inhabitants largely through Pop's rose-coloured perspective.  As a result, we escape into a world of fragrant golden buttercups and bluebells, into fields of plump, ripe strawberries, and into a kitchen that endlessly emits the heavenly, mouthwatering aromas of Ma's rich and flavourful country meals. <br />Pop is quite a character, and his sunny, carefree disposition and overwhelming generosity, together with his acute focus on the sensory delights of his surroundings, imbue the book with a sense of warmth and beauty that one seldom finds in novels.  Pop and Ma (who, by the way, is tremendously overweight) take life as they find it and people as they find them, and they never seem to let anything rattle them.  Though it's never spelled out, one gets the feeling that life is simply too short a journey to spend it focussing on the bumps one incurs along the way.<br />I discovered this lovely series through watching the wonderful dramatisation starring David Jason (as Sidney &quot;Pop&quot; Larkin) and Catherine Zeta Jones (as his daughter Mariette), which I also highly recommend (and which is available, at the time of writing, on video and DVD).  Whether or not you've seen the dramatisation, if you're looking for a cheery, thoroughly relaxing and thoroughly enjoyable read, you'll enjoy this sweet book.  It's well worth ferretting out a copy.  In short, it's absolutely &quot;perfick&quot;!	2002-03-24
US	43645283	R1LDZXQZRQ9KUV	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A First-Rate Mystery!	I've enjoyed the dramatizations of British mystery writer Minette Walters' previous novels, and I was, therefore, looking forward to finally reading one; I must say, I was not disappointed. The Shape of Snakes is a well-written and, frankly, unputdownable novel. The story captures the reader's attention and interest right from the start. As it progresses, the characters take shape and the mystery becomes increasingly complex with a good many twists and surprises before the final pieces are in place.<br />The story takes place in the first person. Briefly, and without giving anything away, the narrator (known to us only as M. Ranelagh) had in 1978 discovered the body of her neighbour Annie (a disabled black woman) as Annie lay dying in the gutter in front of M's house. Not satisfied with the coroner's verdict, we find that M has spent the last 20 or so years amassing evidence in support of her belief as to what really happened to Annie. <br />Though the story is told through the less-than-objective eyes of one of the characters, Walters has counterbalanced this obvious bias in a highly effective (and indeed original) manner by including \\"copies\\" of letters, newspaper clippings, e-mails, reports, and so on in between most of the chapters. <br />Lest anyone be offended or upset, I ought to mention that there are, unfortunately, fairly graphic descriptions of cruelty to cats which some may find quite distressing (I certainly did and frankly skipped over much of the description). If you are able to withstand the cruelty, however, this is definitely a novel worth reading, for it is an extremely satisfying and masterfully-written mystery.  At the core of the story are the related issues of racism, ignorance and intolerance, and Walters succeeds in evoking her readers' emotions and making us think; yet she manages to do so (at least in my opinion) without making us thoroughly depressed in the process. Don't misunderstand me.  This novel is somewhat disturbing, not to mention unsettling, and many of the despicable attitudes and actions (toward both humans and cats) can only be described, quite frankly, as evil.  Nevertheless, there is still that ever-so-important redeeming element of good that occasionally manages to punctuate the darkness--even if it is only a feeling of remorse or a simple act of kindness. <br />In conclusion, if you enjoy intelligent, realistic, thought-provoking mysteries--if you enjoy the Prime Suspect television series for example--you'll enjoy this novel.  It's certainly one of the best mysteries I've read.  Highly recommended!	2002-02-09
US	43645283	R35YWAA59F0AND	0140296085	506295607	Blackadder: The Whole Damn Dynasty, 1485-1917	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Damn Fine Book of Scripts	This 455-page 6&quot; x 9&quot; softcover (printed on standard &quot;paperback&quot; paper) contains the full scripts to every episode in each of the four series.  It does not, however, include the scripts to either the Dickens' Christmas Carol special or the Millenium special.  Also interspersed throughout are nineteen full-page b/w photos of the characters.<br />I must confess personally to a preference for behind-the-scenes and tribute books.  Nevertheless, I really did enjoy reading this delightful book of scripts. For one thing, there are a number of brief comical additions (&quot;the other bits&quot;) included for the reader's &quot;edification.&quot;  Most notable (and most hilarious) are the brief two-page &quot;lessons&quot; in history (both of England in general and of the Blackadder or Baldrick dynasties in particular) that fill in the gaps prior to the first series and in between subsequent series.  Other highlights include very brief overviews of Mediaeval Medicine and of Instruments of Torture (a particularly ghastly example of which is the device used for (and I quote) &quot;ruining the victim's hairdo or cutting it off entirely&quot;).  Of course, one mustn't forget Baldrick's Report Card from 1880 or the erudite extract from Dr. Johnson's famous dictionary.<br />This definitely was an enjoyable read.  If you are a fan of this excellent, unique British comedy series and are looking for the full scripts (plus a number of cute extras), you'll enjoy this book.	2002-01-23
US	43645283	R209EMRO39K6MW	1566490421	251043626	Are You Being Served?: A Celebration of Twenty-Five Years	Books	5	23	23	N	N	The Definitive Tribute!	This lovely and indeed comprehensive tribute book commences with an introduction by Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft (co-writers of the series) and a foreword by Lloyd's ex-wife (and two-time guest), Joanna Lumley, and it is sure to be treasured by fans of this entertaining British comedy.<br />What makes this book so enjoyable is the amount of participation author Richard Webber has received from everyone involved in the production (from writers, directors, costume designers, etc., to the actors themselves), and the book is filled with their many anecdotes.  In the case of deceased actors Harold Bennett (Young Mr. Grace) and Arthur Brough (Mr. Grainger), assistance has been provided by their son and daughter, respectively.<br />The book includes a detailed history of the series--how it came about, how the actors were chosen, why certain actors left the show, how certain effects were achieved, and so on.  Also included are chapters on the stage show, the movie, the 90's sequel (Grace and Favour also known as Are You Being Served? Again!) and a look at the success of the show (and its US and Aussie spinoffs) abroad.<br />My favourite parts are the four-page bios of the original cast, which includes b/w and sepia photos of the actors at various ages and stages in their careers.  (A priceless inclusion are the childhood photos of most of these actors).  This is followed by one-half- to one-page bios of &quot;other memorable characters&quot;--the maintenance men, the replacements for Mr. Grainger and Mr. Lucas, Old Mr. Grace, the nurse, and the canteen manageress.  There are separate chapters for the secretaries and the lift girls with brief quarter-page bios and tiny b/w photos of each.  Finally, there is a chapter devoted to &quot;familiar faces&quot; which contains brief quarter-page bios &amp; tiny b/w photos of every actor to have appeared as a guest on the show.<br />The book also includes a complete episode guide, often with a particularly memorable snippet of dialogue from the episode being summarized or a &quot;memory&quot; from one of the cast of crew.  An episode guide and brief quarter-page bios are also provided for Grace and Favour.  Finally, there is a detailed index.<br />The book is a 10&quot; x 7 3/4&quot; 176-page hardcover printed on thick, good-quality paper with a matte finish, and it contains many b/w and colour photos throughout.<br />In conclusion, this is an attractive, well-researched, well-written, comprehensive and thoroughly enjoyable look back at one of Britain's most popular comedies and at the cast and crew who made it so memorable.  Very highly recommended!	2001-11-29
US	43645283	R3H0NZK0074KJK	0912333049	255776173	Are You Being Served?: The Inside Story of Britain's Funniest--And Public Television's Favorite--Comedy Series	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Delightful Companion for Fans of the Series	Having thoroughly enjoyed Richard Webber's superb tribute to the series, I was a little skeptical (I must confess) about the ability of this book to measure up.  Well, I needn't have been.  This is an absolutely delightful and extremely informative behind-the-scenes companion book.<br />The authors have liberally seasoned the book with plenty of anecdotes from the cast and crew.  The history of the series (how it came about, how the characters were created and cast, why certain cast members left, and so on) is very well presented.  In a couple of instances, a question and answer format is used with writer Jeremy Lloyd and director Bob Spiers, which adds to the overall conversational feel of the book.  The authors have even included a segment on Simpson's (the store on which Grace Brothers' was modelled) and have solicited comments from its General Manager.<br />Also dealt with are the movie, the stage show, the 90's sequel (Grace and Favour also known as Are You Being Served? Again!), and the US and Aussie spinoffs.  The book includes complete episode guides for the series, the 90's sequel and (briefly) the Aussie spinoff.  Finally, it concludes with a cute little 100-question trivia quiz on the series and a glossary of British terms (the book is very much directed towards a US audience).<br />Nearly half the book is devoted to bios of the writers (Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft), the main cast members and the characters they portrayed, with roughly 3-5 pages devoted to each.  Though fairly brief, the bios are actually quite informative and certainly interesting.<br />The book itself is an 8&quot; x 9&quot; 212-page softcover.  The paper is comparatively thin but of a fine quality nonetheless.  Many of the pages are coloured, some with decorative trims or background patterns, and the margins are very wide and filled with tidbits of information.  The book is rife with colour and b/w photos from the show.  The quality of some of the larger photos is not the best (they're a bit blurry or grainy--as though they've been enlarged a bit too much); nevertheless the selection of scenes (some of which are quite comical) is very good indeed.  All in all, the effect is very pleasing.<br />In conclusion, this is a very colourful, user-friendly book that is, quite frankly, as much fun to thumb through as it is to read.  Whether you get this book or Richard Webber's, you'll not be disappointed.  Very highly recommended!	2001-11-29
US	43645283	R6QQU2AGNPP0X	0563369752	425112398	Keeping Up Appearances: Hyacinth Bucket's Book of Etiquette for the Socially Less Fortunate	Books	5	32	32	N	N	An Absolute Gem!	The Brits have a wonderful knack for taking the scripts (or bits thereof), incorporating them into a book ostensibly written by the character herself, and coming up with something fresh and every bit as hilarious as the series itself.  Such is certainly the case with Hyacinth Bucket's Book of Etiquette.<br />With this book, Hyacinth responds to questions of etiquette from the &quot;socially less fortunate.&quot;  Her responses and anecdotes (which often contain snippets of dialogue taken from the scripts) are well-seasoned with her own opinions and thoughts; the result is just hilarious.  Hyacinth has even included an index for the reader, which contains gems such as &quot;index finger, correct use of&quot; and &quot;husbands, uses of.&quot;  <br />For the person who just can't get enough of that Bucket woman, this lovely 191-page book, which contains an abundance of black &amp; white photos (scenes from the series) is a must-have.  A book to be read and re-read, it is every bit as enjoyable as the series upon which it is based.  Highly recommended!	2001-11-09
US	43645283	R31Z7ROM09VN4G	0563371862	731106025	Hyacinth Bucket's Hectic Social Calendar	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Just Like Having Another Episode!	This adorable little book is ostensibly a copy of Hyacinth Bucket's one-year diary (a gift from Richard).  As with any diary, the entries are (of course) handwritten.  Also, there are copies of newspaper clippings, invitations, a few annotated photographs, and so on, throughout.  The first page, as one might expect, is a list of important phone numbers (all filled in and suitably annotated by Hyacinth with comments such as &quot;dirty hands--must NOT touch wallpaper&quot; next to the electrician's number, for example).<br />Though the diary makes reference to people and places that were introduced in the series--like Marston Hall (Hyacinth's rural retreat) and C.P. Benedict (the Garden Centre king), it is not a script-based book as is her Book of Etiquette.  In fact, it includes incidents that never appeared in the series at all, such as a visit to the Antiques Roadshow.  Also, from various comments included in the diary, the reader begins to wonder fairly early on whether or not Richard is seeing another woman (which adds quite an interesting twist!).<br />In short, this is a light-hearted and thoroughly entertaining (not to mention insightful) book, and it is a must-have addition to the series for all who love this priceless British comedy and that precious Bucket woman.  Highly recommended!	2001-11-09
US	43645283	R2RINRN43B5JTY	0747221065	575651461	Ballykissangel: Behind the Scenes	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An Interesting and Informative Behind-the-Scenes Book	With plenty of participation and anecdotes from all involved in the production (the producer, writers, directors and actors), this lovely little book provides a delightful behind-the-scenes look at this warm-hearted comedy-drama.<br />The book deals with how the idea for the series came about, how a town was chosen to represent Ballykissangel (whose name, incidentally, is Gaelic for &quot;The Town of the Banished Angel&quot;), the impact that the series has had on that town (Avoca, in County Wicklow) and its inhabitants.  The book also touches on how a few of the effects were achieved, like the burning of Kathleen's house and the statue crashing through the roof of Ambrose's car.  Included are brief 2-3 page bios of the actors and the characters they portray.  Finally, there is an episode guide covering the first two series (the last episode of which is &quot;Chinese Whispers&quot;).<br />Written by Geoff Tibballs, this beautiful little book is a 7 1/2&quot; x 10&quot; 128-page hardcover printed on thick, high-quality paper, and it is loaded with colour pictures (mostly scenes from the series).<br />In conclusion, this is a thoroughly enjoyable and informative little behind-the-scenes look at one of the most charming and gently amusing comedy-drama series around.  Highly recommended.	2001-11-09
US	43645283	R2PW9AJ782XIEE	0563551518	660429426	Last of the Summer Wine: The Finest Vintage	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A Wonderful Tribute to a Sweet, Sweet Series	With over 200 episodes in nearly 30 years, Last of the Summer Wine is Britain's longest-running situational comedy.  Authors Morris Bright and Robert Ross have created a delightful (albeit poignant) look back at this enjoyable series and at the characters that have made it so memorable.<br />Chapters include a 28-year history of the show (how it came about, changes that occurred over the years, etc.); a behind-the-scenes look at the series, which takes us through the stages involved in getting from script to screen; a listing (together with brief quarter-page bios) of every guest star since 1973 (most of whom will be unfamiliar to North American audiences); and a complete episode guide (a brief summary of every episode from 1973 to 2000).<br />My favourite chapters are the three (&quot;the Winos,&quot; &quot;the Stronger Sex,&quot; and &quot;the Henpecked&quot;) dedicated to those memorable main characters and the actors who have portrayed them.  Ranging from one to six pages per actor, brief bios are given (mostly career summaries, really, as there isn't a lot of personal information provided); further, each actor (if still alive, obviously) discusses his or her respective character, what it's been like portraying that character over the years, and so on.<br />Physically, this 221-page hardcover is as lovely to look at as it is to read.  Printed on heavy, glossy, high-quality paper, there are an abundance of photographs (all colour) throughout.  There are lovely photos of the actors posing in full Summer Wine attire, shots of the filming of the series, and scenes from the series itself.  (Unfortunately, there is only one photo of the cast out of costume--a shot taken at an awards' ceremony).<br />Perhaps the nicest thing about this book is the participation the authors received from everyone involved--from writer Roy Clarke and producer Alan J.W. Bell to the actors themselves--and the book is rife with their many anecdotes.  The authors spent a lot of time on location with the cast and crew, and the book is very well researched.  Sadly, their research for the book engulfed the period of Bill Owen's (Compo's) illness and subsequent death in July 1999 from pancreatic cancer.  He was 85.  Nevertheless, Owen worked right up till the very end; poignantly, &quot;The Finest Vintage&quot; seems as much a tribute to him as it is to the series.<br />In conclusion, this lovely book, dedicated to the memory of the irreplaceable Bill Owen, is a wonderful keepsake that will certainly be cherished by anyone who has enjoyed this sweet series.  Highly recommended.  (This review refers to the edition published in 2000.  I mention this because I think there may have been an earlier edition, though I am not certain.)	2001-11-01
US	43645283	R10SAW7IFNZSJQ	1573227951	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Tour de Force!	Peopled with many actual historical individuals, this erudite mystery is set against the backdrop of a very turbulent and unstable period in English history--that of the Restoration in the late 1600s.  Author Iain Pears presents a glimpse into the scientific methodology of the time, together with the philosophy, theology, superstitions and prejudices (be they religious, ethnic, or gender) that intertwine to reflect the often competing mindsets of the 17th century man.<br />All of this is incorporated into what surely must be one of the most intricately complex, creative, and tightly-woven plots ever written.  That there are no loose ends not only makes this novel a pleasure to read, but it is evidence of great care having been taken in planning this extraordinary story.  For his efforts, Pears has without a doubt penned a masterpiece.<br />The novel takes the form of a series of manuscripts.  Briefly (and without giving anything away), the tale is told through the eyes of four individuals whose social status, ideologies, backgrounds, personalities, and hence perspectives, are very different indeed.  Their recollections are never repetitious; in some cases, there is actually very little overlap at all.  Thread by thread, however, this tapestry of a story is skilfully and meticulously woven.<br />For those who enjoy being challenged and surprised by an exceptionally well-crafted and satisfying mystery, this is one of the best that I've come across.  In fact, it is so full of twists and surprises that it is sure to please even the most jaded reader of mysteries.  <br />This novel is sure to appeal to anyone who enjoys an intellectually stimulating read; it will, however, be of particular interest to aficionados of historical fiction, philosophy, theology, or historical scientific methods.  Very highly recommended!	2001-09-21
US	43645283	R2ROOWEXX4L9Z4	0749921501	216459663	Sean Bean: The Biography	Books	5	31	31	N	N	An Interesting and Informative Biography	Born in Sheffield of working-class stock, Sean Bean has risen to become one of Britain's most popular and respected actors, while always remaining true to his roots. Biographer Laura Jackson does a splendid job of covering the life and career of this charismatic yet enigmatic individual.<br />Sean Bean is a very private individual, and apart from the first dozen pages which deal with his youth, and tidbits here and there pertaining to his personal life and relationships, the focus of the book is on his career. Commencing with his first acting job at the age of 21 in a 1980 production of &quot;Cabaret,&quot; through his subsequent (and impressive) enrolment in London's Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, and culminating with his role in 2001's &quot;Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; Jackson takes us year by year through Bean's extensive and varied career. She presents a brief summary of each project Bean was involved in, as well as background information such as how the particular project came about, how or why Bean was chosen, and so on.<br />The project given the most attention in the book is the tremendously popular &quot;Sharpe&quot; series. With five series filmed over as many years, much of the latter half of the book is devoted to a behind-the-scenes look at this series. There are plenty of anecdotes from many involved in the production (including author Bernard Cornwell himself!), and it is the part of the book that I personally enjoyed the most.<br />Bean's character, personality and professional ability are revealed primarily through interviews with former tutors and teachers, as well as professional colleagues (such as directors, producers, and fellow actors). Being human, Bean is not without his flaws, and some of his opinions are sure to cause many a cringe. Overall, however, the portrait that is painted is of a man who, though naturally shy and reserved, is kind, thoughtful and considerate of others and whose unpretentious and down-to-earth nature belies his hard-earned status as an international celebrity.<br />As for the book itself, it is 231 pages and includes an index and a list of all Bean's appearances in film, television and theatre. There are 19 photos (mostly colour) on eight pages. Most of the photos are of Bean in his professional capacity; only three are of his family, and they are public shots rather than from any personal collection. There are (somewhat surprisingly) no photos of Bean growing up; the earliest photo of him is at age 21.<br />All in all, this was an interesting and informative book focusing on the career of a very talented and versatile actor. Recommended to fans of the &quot;Sharpe&quot; series or of Sean Bean's work in general.	2001-09-19
US	43645283	RRN66GFNK5V0Y	0878331603	643704387	Best of the Britcoms: From Fawlty Towers to Absolutely Fabulous	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Indispensable Guide to British Comedy	For aficionados of British comedy, this 140-page book is a must-have.  It is specifically directed toward North American audiences and includes synopses of 50 of the most popular British situation comedies to have been viewed by North Americans.  Most of the favourites are here--from Fawlty Towers and Are You Being Served in the 70s to Keeping Up Appearances and The Vicar of Dibley in the 90s.  Many of the lesser-known comedies are also here--comedies like Only When I Laugh or Rising Damp.  As with any &quot;Best of&quot; collection, there is bound to be the odd favourite that didn't make the cut (shows like Fresh Fields or No Job for a Lady, for example).<br />The comedies are categorized by decade.  The amount of space devoted to each show ranges from a scant one-half page to as much as four pages, largely dependent on the popularity of the series with its North American audiences.<br />For each comedy, author Garry Berman provides a splendid summary of the story-line and characters.  Often Berman includes brief summaries of what he calls &quot;typical&quot; episodes, occasionally with snippets of dialogue to elucidate the type of verbal humour at play.  The result is that the reader has an idea not only of what the series in general is about, but of what to expect in any given episode. Although the focus is very much on the series themselves, Berman frequently treats us to tidbits of behind-the-scenes information--things like how the series came about, why certain actors left a show, what other series they have appeared in, and so on.  Often much of this information is provided through comments from the writers and even from some of the actors themselves.<br />As for the book itself, it is an oversized paperback and includes a fairly detailed index, a list of Britcoms available on video (as of 1999), a foreword by Richard Briers (Good Neighbours), a very interesting introduction on the differences between British and American situational comedies, and an equallyinteresting conclusion on Britcoms that have been made into US comedies (and vice versa) and why they more often than not flop.<br />This book is sure to be of interest to anyone who loves British comedies.  For the familiar programmes, the behind-the-scenes tidbits will be of particular interest.  Where this book is especially useful, however, is in its synopses of the unfamiliar programmes.  It gives the reader a good feel for the shows he or she may wish to purchase on video or request of his or her PBS station.  Very highly recommended.	2001-09-17
US	43645283	R2I82B8RZHEX0V	0233999248	490026954	Cold Feet: The Best Bits...	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Informative &amp; Enjoyable Companion to the TV Series	Cold Feet may not be a typical British comedy; nevertheless, it is certainly one of the funniest.  Those who find they can't get enough of this exceptionally well-directed, slightly off-beat, very modern (albeit rather racy!) comedy-drama will, I am sure, enjoy this informative and humourous companion book.<br />The book covers the pilot plus the first two series (the last episode of which is the millenium New Year's).  Subtitled &quot;the Best Bits,&quot; the book provides the reader with the scripts for a couple of choice scenes from each episode, and I must admit I was surprised to find just how interesting (and indeed funny) most of the scripts were to read.  Additionally, the writer, directors, producer, publicist, and actors all take part in introducing the scenes.<br />Among the things one discovers are:  how the show came about, how the characters were cast, what provided the inspiration for certain scenes, how the actors felt portraying certain scenes (ie. the &quot;rose up the bum&quot; scene!), and how certain effects were achieved.  We are also told about the scenes in which stuntmen were used and in which writer Mike Bullen makes a cameo appearance.  I should just mention, lest anyone be disappointed, that this is a book about the series and its creation.  It does not, therefore, have biographies or much in the way of personal information about the actors.<br />Physically, the book is soft cover, but in every other way it is the quality one would expect in a hardcover.  The print is large and clear, and the paper is of an excellent quality:  thick with a matte finish.  There is an abundance of photographs taken from the series, a few of which are full page and the vast majority of which are in colour.  The cover itself is thick and glossy.  There are 224 pages and the dimensions are 9 1/2&quot; x 7 1/2&quot;.<br />All in all, this is a fine book and one that will probably be thumbed through frequently with the reruns.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-16
US	43645283	R1K3YM4G1Q2JGE	0060932295	987571353	Sharpe's Devil: Richard Sharpe & the Emperor, 1820-1821 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #21)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Must-Read for Fans of the TV/Video Series	Although I enjoy history and historical novels, I've never particularly cared for military history.  But as anyone who has enjoyed the &quot;Sharpe&quot; television (&amp; video) series will attest, there's so much more to these stories than mere military history.  This is the first Bernard Cornwell novel I've read, and it certainly won't be the last.  Without a doubt, fans of the show will not be disappointed with this novel; in fact, it is a must-read as it is the very last Sharpe novel, and it has not been dramatized (so far).<br />As for the story (without giving anything away--this is all in the prologue), it is 1820 and Sharpe &amp; Harper are reunited for an expedition to Chile in search of an old friend.  En route, they visit St. Helena and have the honour of meeting the imprisoned Napoleon, who entreats Sharpe to convey a gift to an admirer in Chile.<br />This novel is an absolute page-turner, and Cornwell is truly a master storyteller.  Suffice it to say that no knowledge of military tactics or manoeuvres is necessary in order to fully enjoy this gem of a novel.  Any action or suspense is seasoned with liberal doses of humour, and there is a most delightful array of entertaining characters.  Lastly, the story is made all the more memorable by the historical afterword.<br />This novel is sure to please.  Highly recommended to anyone who loves a thrilling, action-packed read, and particularly to aficionados of historical fiction.	2001-08-03
