US	43784359	R13B7PMA4YRHI9	0142002933	173103232	Strangers in the House: Coming of Age in Occupied Palestine	Books	5	23	25	N	N	It is a privilege and an honour to read this	I was at first taken aback by the way Palestinian lawyer and writer Raja Shehadeh chose to begin this book, his memoir. Knowing that he is a very important figure in Palestine, I expected (even half-dreaded) a right-on plunge in the middle of Israeli/Middle-Eastern politics. I was wrong.     Although he begins by mentioning the 1948 war as a fact that explains his having been born in Ramallah and not Jaffa, where his family was very important, that's just about it.....in the beginning. We are treated then to a delicately rendered description of the writer's childhood: to a vision of the almost sad figure of a fragile child whose life seems always measured against the looming and powerful figure of his father (a very important Palestinian lawyer), and the impossible to reach lights and colours of neverland-Jaffa, the way of life that the family had lost forever.    It is the relationship with the father, however, what soon becomes the focus of this memoir. And here we must admire one of the most important aspects of the book: an honest-to-God account of how this boy, then  young man, then adult, managed his growing, changing relationship with a strong and powerful father. I was swept from my feet at having such a first hand description of a never-easy son/father relationship. I must confess I was astounded that this incredibly sincere testimony was rendered by an Arab man since, as the same author acknowledges, his is a culture where the son/father bond tends to be quite distant, formal and formidable.    We, readers, see how having such an important father proves to be a load, but also a challenge for the author. And as he begins to be more sure about what his place in the world is, and what his mission is, the world of politics (which had never quite disappeared from the background) returns with force, but in such a way that provokes a fatal crisis in this already difficult son/father relationship. And just as the situation appears to be unbearable, just as the breach seems impossible to mend......Raja's father is murdered.    Here the book takes an abrupt turn. Raja decides to help as much as he can to find the murderer, whom he believes to be someone involved in a land dispute his father was working on. He is good. The pace and tempo of the narrative change so that we begin to feel the urge to know who this murderer is, for we are much pretty sure of why  the murder took place......and I won't spoil the ending for you. I'll just say that it is important. Very important. For Raja and for all of us.    Just as this seemingly humble book is terribly important: as the personal memoir of a man who has always been politically moderate, a fighter for human rights, one of the few Palestinians who has ever dared to criticise the politics of the Palestinian leaders and of the Arab leaders; one of the few who was always convinced that Arabs had to negotiate with Israeli, that Israel was there to stay; as a honest, moving homage to a father who was a powerful force in the author's life (and who taught him to see politics and the Middle-East the way he saw it);..... as a way to know more about that rarely-found-in-the-news-and-media specimen: the Arab, Palestinian moderate, and the way he fares.	2005-09-05
US	43784359	R1CPNMEPPOQ0JX	0394746295	684913345	The Good Terrorist	Books	5	23	26	N	N	The terror inside.	We'd do well to read, or re-read, this literary masterpiece by Doris Lessing which dissects for us the common-place, undramatic way in which many people in our Western society can get involved with terrorism. At the same time, the novel is a criticsm, full of irony and subtlety, of the hypocrisy and lack of values of western middle classes . In my opinion, this novel is far more scary than reading a black and white view of society, something Doris Lessing certainly never does here, since it is the blurry quality of grey what makes us confused when we have to judge.    Alice Mellings, the main charater of this novel, has all the qualifications for being the perfect middle-class home-maker: she cleans, decorates, cooks, and in general takes care of housekeeping and looks after her people. In the first of the great ironies of the book, though, Alice is not a middle-class housewife, but someone who \\"rebelled\\" against her middle class family in her youth by becoming a squatter, and is still trying to determine just the exact meaning of that. The people Alice looks after in such a motherly way are a group of squatters, mainly people who have abhorred their middle-class roots and have failed to find their place in the London society of the day. The house Alice tries to make into a nice,  cozy home for all of them is an old, abandoned house where they are illegally living.    From the point of view of the protagonist, Alice, we follow the dozens of small problems and mishaps she has to overcome in order to reach her goal of creating a comfortable home for \\"her people\\". We follow her when she goes to her despised middle-class mother's house and steals money (an important source of income) or she speaks with the city council authorities to have electricity or water at home. We see these home-making activities are all-important in her aimless life, while she pays little attention to politics as they are discussed by the people who live with her.     These people vow to make revolution against capitalism (most of them, but especially the most rabid of these characters -I won't say more or it would be a spoiler- come from well-off families) and eventually begin to talk of aiding the IRA in their terrorist actions in London (the novel was written in the eighties...). Again, ironically, we know nothing of Alice's political opininos. In fact, she doesn't seem to be interested in politics at all. She is just \\"Anti-system\\", without knowing very well what it means, but, anyhow, her comrades seem to be very sure about it so she goes along with them....And thus, though passively, Alice is finally involved in the terror these people create in London.    What is masterly in this novel is the concept that terrorism, although obviously a political weapon, must rely in the actions of persons. That these persons, involved in terrorist actions, are certainly not good citizens or exemplary members of society, but usually psychollogical misfits who, once having found the explanation for their particular grudge and the easy justification for violence that extremist ideologies provide , are impossible to control.     But the best concept in the novel is that it shows how what we consider the best elements in our society (from the very home-making impulses of the protagonist  to the idealization of youthful rebelliousness, to the \\"democratic\\" way in which the squatters' home is ruled, to the altruistic ideals the squatters seem to share...)are ironically being handled in a context and situation far from what we would consider idealistic. And we see how these very western concepts can ultimately be used against our society when they are not backed by human values. When abstract words such as \\"system\\" \\"capitalism\\" \\"socialism\\" \\"class struggle\\" \\"revolution\\" and many others (that, in the case of these novel, the characters manipulate without knowing very well what they mean), are seen as more important than the single, objective concept \\"human being\\", our best values are lost. Our society is creating monsters. And no matter how much we repeat that the threat of terror comes from outside. Ideas might come from outside, and that cannot be stopped....but the terror is inside. Doris Lessing helps to make us aware of this.	2005-07-10
US	43784359	R34NX4DK9EXDQ	0486431584	619053612	Travels in Arabia Deserta: Selected Passages	Books	5	24	30	N	N	Living and writing Bible-style	I must, grudgingly, give this monumental classic work of travel and adventure five stars, despite the fact that I don't really like the author. Doughty was probably not a very nice, friendly person; his life and opinions seem centered around a strict, almost fanatical and unforgiving, religiosity (he was a very fervent christian). Nevertheless, what he set out to do, he did with ample success and eficiency; and what he set out to do is not so simple as it seems at first sight,in my opinion, except for one of his main, but most superficial goals: to redeem the English language from the poverty and oversimplicity it had fallen into (Doughty believed the English language had fallen from grace since Spencer: I wonder, what would he think of it now?).    \\"Travels...\\" is an account of Doughty's two years of wandering through the Desert, in the 2nd half of the 19th century, with Hejaz and Nejd nomads. Unlike many other travellers before him (such as Sir Richard Burton), he never even tried to pretend he was a muslim, but admited to the nomads he travelled with that he was christian....and then went on, once and again for two years, to argue christianity's superiority over Islam and to explain how the fact that they were muslims excited his pity at seeing them fooled by their fraudulent Islamic beliefs. We know that traveleng in Arabia in those times was quite risky and dangerous, so it is a wonder that he was not killed by the nomads he was travelling with after they had to hear, for the hundredth time, how their faith was a fraud!!! This pious propensity, or even thirst for martyrdom (some times the provocations seem to point at that), is also quite trying for the reader.    However, if you can stomach the religious dissertations in his very special saintly style, the reading is rewarding indeed. Doughty had the (undeserved, I think with envy)luck to find the remains of the Nabataean town of Hegra, which he describes in some depth, with sketches of the tombs and copies ofthe inscriptions he found there. Who doesn't dream of finding the abandoned, lost, ancient town, built by a mysterious half-forgotten people? His descriptions of life with a Nomadic tribe of those times, with its unbelievable hardships, due to the famine-level subsistence usual among nomads, are an etnographic work of first rank. His report of the abuse, threats and indignities he had to suffer at the hands of the nomads because of his refusal to deny his christianity are unintentionally funny, in spite of himself.    But it is when we see that Doughty constantly compares the nomads of the desert with the Patriarchs of the Bible, and we know he can imagine himself in the company of Abraham's or Ishmael's tribes, when we learn the extent of the religious significance that this journey had for him. The ignorance and fanaticism that he finds in these nomads, he imagines in the Patriarchs of the Bible. For him Christianity, his own faith, was the light and salvation that took people out of the pitiful and primitive state these nomads live in. In fact, his journey is actually a pilgrimage to invest his religion with a significance that maybe he had been in the process of losing from sight.    And it is this, the fact that this author had set out for a journey with the intention of profoundly despising the people he was going to live with, what makes me despise him as a person, even though I see the importance of his work. Although Doughty repeats, now and then, the common, admiring expressions that were usual and fashionable to speak about the nomadic Arabs of those times -all the usal \\"noble savage\\" stuff-, we can read between lines (and later on, directly) that he thinks they are repulsive, inferior creatures. He goes to Arabia thinking he will be a superior among primitives, and he leaves Arabia, two years later, convinced that this has, indeed, been the case. In my opinion, the one who comes out the worst from the experience, is himself, although I have to thank himfor recording his experiences and so, giving me the oportunity of reading between lines and learning from that.    I would like to add that this is not a complete edition of Doughty's work, which I read in the Dover two-volume edition, with an introduction by T.E.Lawrence and translations (of the Nabatean inscriptions) by Ernest Renan, and with some beautifully drawn maps.	2005-06-23
US	43784359	R2FPDR8VH5J0Y8	014010996X	626188180	The Balkan Trilogy (The Great Fortune / The Spoilt City / Friends and Heroes)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Decadence and growth	I read this trilogy, in the Penguin edition, as the first volume of Olivia Manning's \\"Fortunes of War\\". Composed of three novels, it narrates the evolution and growth of Harriet Pringle, from a young, unworldly and hopeful newlywed, to self aware, disillusioned, but profoundly humane cosmopolitan who wearily flees the German advance against the backdrop of WWII in southern Europe.      We meet the main character (Harriet, from whose point of view we see everyting)as she has recently married and is travelling, in the company of her husband, Guy, to Bucharest. WWII has just begun, and the young British couple finds many alarming signs of this in their way to the country where they intend to spend some time, since Guy has a teaching post there.    As we get to know them while they settle in Bucharest, we can see how Harriet and Guy are totally different in personality: while Guy is idealistic, open and gregarious, Harriet is reserved, not very talkative and even suspicious. These differences become apparent for them, as well as for those who know them, creating tension and misunderstandings in their married life. Harriet doesn't understand why Guy seems to love to be with everybody, and have a good time on top of that, and spends so little time with her. He also cares about everybody's problems except her own (she doesn't bother to give a clue about them, but anyway expects him to at least look interested).    All this would seem ordinary, boring, married life stuff,..... except that the setting is the very troubled Europe of the war.I also think Harriet's thinking and feeling processes are  quite likely and credible: we tend to see ourselves, in the middle of our misfortune and unhappiness, as the centre of the world, even when shattering, but vague and general, events sorround us. Harriet does indeed seem more interested in the obnoxiousness of her husband's behaviour than in the real tragic and dangerous situation they are in. For, even though Romanian people assurethem that they are in a safe country,allied of the Germans, events begin to tell otherwise. Harriet, however, is not as much interested in historic events as in her discovery of the very real differences in character and disposition that seem to distance her from her husband or, even more surprising for her, the sudden realization of how interesting and worth of affection some of the people she meets in Bucharest are. This latter, the fact that she can feel authentic, deep affection for total strangers with whom she doesn't share anything (culture, language, age, background...) makes her worry more about the real possibilities of success her marriage has....while it also teaches her how there is a human core in herself and others, even in the middle of chaos and tragedy, that makes human connectedness possible. On the other hand, this device makes us acquainted with truly fascinatig characters, tridimensional, charming and lovable with flaws and all.    But she has to leave Bucharest in a hurry, as well as her new friends, for Greece. The Germans are sweeping over Europe. And this is the greatest charm of the trilogy: the depiction of the very last days, the agony throes one could say, of a whole world and view of life; the decadence of the old European society, torn between two visions of the world that will ultimately destroy it: fascism and comunism. Harriet's husband, Guy, likes this latter vision and, sadly and ironically, is devoted to spreading the greatest works of European culture, just in the eve of this culture's destruction through the attrocities of war.    It is a great triumph of the author that, in spite of the highly tragical, chaotic and emotional times the story is set in, she manages to convey the story in a very emotionally-controlled, sometimes even detached, way. This must be really difficult when writing about a young British couple, far from home and family, who flees the German advance in Europe. But the point of view chosen -that of a character who is really in the middle of the important, life-affirming process, of learning about herself and the world: how she can care and feel affection for other people, all kinds of people (learning to love), and who is getting to lower her expectations of what she should get in return for her affection- , diffuses the impact of the times and, through the very personal vision of the character, makes us have some hope and faith in the humanity of people.      There is a sequel to this trilogy, although not so long, that tells about Harriet and Guy after they have to leave Greece for Egypt: The Levant Trilogy. I recomend both. They convey a very good idea of the world and way of life that died with WWII.	2005-06-11
US	43784359	RXPK2NXLIYWSQ	0140305513	17843105	Hobberdy Dick (Puffin Books)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Friendly magic	I decided to buy this book after reading the previous reviewer praise for it. And I have to say I agree with him. Hobberdy Dick is a delicious story, set in 17th century England, just after the Civil War. Although, as a narration, it has a plot, this is of secondary importance for the book, and the central elements are the setting and folk mythology elements ordinarily attached to English country life.  <br /> <br />The main character is a  hobgoblin, a friendly haunting spirit, who has been in charge of guarding an old Manor house for centuries. We see not only the story from his point of view, but also the hard times post-war England is living through, and facts and characters that belong to country folk-lore and magic, such as grims, ghosts, witches and the remnants of pagan cults and celebrations.  <br /> <br />This folk-lore is not presented to us in dry-facts descriptions, but as an important part of life for peasants and country gentry that are presented as belonging to a world in the process of disappearing. With all the social, political, even religious, changes brought about by the period of unrest that culminated in the Civil War, the knowledge of the good and evil spirits or magical beings that inhabit the nature has been relegated to the common, \\"ignorant\\" peasantry, the only ones who, even though it can be dangerous under the watchful control of a Puritan government, continue to honour the cycles and spirits of the land. The higher spheres of society, on the other hand, are beginning to be populated by the bourgeois and middle classes, and by an aristocracy who are rapidly becoming city-dwellers, detached from the country life and its ancestral ways. <br /> <br />A delightful little book, initially written for children, fascinating for anyone interested in ancient country magic and folklore.  <br />	2005-05-05
US	43784359	R3QAXFP3D4MNLJ	0226167704	6834617	The Age of the Cathedrals: Art and Society, 980-1420	Books	5	39	41	N	N	The Terror and the Beauty	Now, don't get me wrong, this book is a very serious scholarly work packed with facts and dates, notes and references. However, according to the author -renowned French historian and member of the Acadmie Franaise Georges Duby, who died in 1996- History should be considered, and worked as, a literary genre. And hence his care with vocabulary and narration, his pains to characterize the frame of mind of those who populated the age he was a specialist in: the European Middle Ages. This book is maybe his most significant contribution to understanding the artistic heritage of those years, and he certainly succeeds with it in making us grasp some of the feelings and visions of the world that are behind some of the most striking monuments ever made by men: the gothic cathedrals.     Duby's aim is, as usual, to explain through carefully crafted narration how the society that erected such awe-inspiring monuments behaved and tried to understand itself; how cathedrals are a product of  it, and also which were the powers that guided that society. But although some representatives of those powers (church and monarchy) may have been wholly convinced that Cathedrals where ultimately monuments to their glory, Duby shows us throughout the pages of this wonderful book how the architects and the workers, the masons,  the servants, the monks, but also the priests and nobles, artists and scholars, contributed with their work and their blood, to make cathedrals maybe the most astounding homage to the power of Life, with its terror and its beauty.    Terror is what you will find at the very beginning of the book(in the year 1000 approx.): the terror of living in the wild forested land that then was Western Europe, trying to scratch a living out of the unyielding land, trying to survive and understand the scourge of terrible plagues or murderous invasions that decimated the few and scattered settlings. The amazing pungency of this beginning totally catches us (who probably expected an arid compilation of dates and battles) unawares and takes us from the basest level of medieval society (especially that of France) up through different layers to the powers that governed lives and souls and who decided where and when one of these fabulous temples should be erected.    Even if you are not a catholic or Christian, even if you are an atheist, when you walk into one of these striking temples you can't help but notice -at ground level, near your feet- how there are numerous tombs of kings, priests, powerful people, that will make you think about the unavoidable mystery and darkness of death; how higher up there are paintings and works of art depicting good and evil, the fights and the fears, the knowledge and redemption to be sought and found throughout life; and when you raise your eyes to the stained-glass windows and the soaring spires....the wonder and the bliss, the whole power of Life.    So, if you are considering a visit to one of these greatest of human works of art, the gothic cathedrals of Western Europe, this is the book to read, or even take with you. But even if this is not the case, I recommend you to read it. You will see a whole society creating, with their work and effort, with their minds and hearts, with their very blood, one of the greatest, best homages to Life: to the sheer awe and terror of it, and the sheer wonder and beauty of it.    (In memory of Bob Zeidler. To the friend I would have liked to have, who died on April 2 2005)	2005-04-02
US	43784359	R15GZVSDZQO6XT	0425198154	669558672	Taking Liberties (Makepeace Hedley)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Rewards and responsibilities of freedom	This wonderful novel deals with the issue of freedom in three fronts: the American war of independence from Britain (which is constantly discussed, and which creates the conflict that sparks the plot); the total loss of freedom and rights -and appalling conditions- that prisoners of war suffer (which further complicates the plot); and most especially, the personal independence of the main character, Lady Diana Stacpole, who finds herself free of her abusive and very \\"noble\\" husband after 20 years of nighmarish marriage.    In the end, it is made clear that freedom, even when imperfect (e.g. at some point it becomes apparent to the characters that the American declaration of rights is not going to respect those of women, black people or other minorities'), is better than the lack of it.     You may think the theme sounds very solemn and, certainly, the ethical aspects of freedom, as well as the problems of the British class system and the responsibilities towards our fellow human beings (even war enemies), are unblinkingly discussed. However, the result is not sermonizing thanks to Diana Norman's wonderful sense of humour and her ability to create the most eccentric, yet believable and endearing characters. And there are plenty of those! To be frank, you won't be able to stop chuckling even in the middle of the most heart-wrenching moments.     Did I mention that this novel is also a wonderful adventure complete with a escape from prison, a daring rescue, an outragious kidnapping, a whole lot of smugglers, a dangerous chase....? Also, bear in mind that, although this novel can be perfectly read on its own, it can be read as a sequel of \\"A Perfect Catch\\", too. Here we meet again the tempestuous Makepeace Burke and other characters from the previous novel.     Diana Norman is such a good historian (her main occupation. She has more history essays published than novels), but also such a good novelist that she manages to give us the atmosphere of the times, and describethe subject of American independence as seen from the metropolis side of the conflict -although, granted, from the point of view of characters who don't fit all that well in conventional British society. In spite of a light touch of the \\"poiltically correct\\" in the subject of the abused aristocratic wife (and the politically correct always spoils good literature, in my opinion, turning it into good pamphlets), the author manages to capture the exciting atmosphere of a time when, it seemed, everything was about to change for ever (and so it does for most characters) and anything was possible.    I confess I am currently trying to buy ANY other novel by this same author, but can't find any still in print. So, don't miss this!	2004-11-21
US	43784359	R2ORN4BFDY0JUJ	0553381768	975669572	A Singular Hostage	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not  what the plot deserves	I bought this novel based on what other readers had said of it and, mainly, on the originality of the plot. I hoped I would find a story that would transport me to the India of the Raj, as FAR PAVILLIONS does. Alas, this was not so. The characters of this book are not round, especially so the main character Mariana. The author fails to flesh her out as a victorian young lady when she insists time and again, that her main trait, that which makes her a misfit in British society but should endear us to her, is that she is too warm-hearted and has an unfashionable, too-broad smile.     As proof of that, the author throws in some scenes in which we witness how Mariana feels for everybody, regardless of their social standing, to the point of actually hugging servants or village boys when she feels they are fellow-sufferers. It is not that a Victorian lady would not feel empathy for the pople \\"below her\\" in society, it is that  she would certainly have shown it in other ways, for instance, with kind words.     But then, the author also tells us trait number two in Mariana's character: that she is too impulsive, which must account for the necessity of physical contact, I guess. It is not surprising, then, that her mother and aunt are worried about Mariana's prospects of marriage (although this does not extend to worrying about teaching her to be a real lady,with all the proper accopmplishements: she does not seem to draw, sew or study French, she does not seem to have a governess either; in fact, we are told that her days are spent rambling in the garden and being \\"warm-hearted\\" towards everybody that comes near her.). They decide that she will have a better chance of finding a good husband in India, where they are always short of marriageable ladies.     And thus we find the main character in India. Of course, she absolutely falls in love with India instantly; and I mean instantly: she doesn't learn to love it after some time of getting used to it. No culture shock for unwordly Mariana. However, the author utterly fails to transmit the feeling of this instant love or to conjure up the emotions of exotic adventure or grand occasion that such a happening as the journey of the governor and his two sisters should give us, although she gives us an account of what travelling by caravan was (with all the proper names of things and persons involved). This account does not sound alive to me.     I find hard to belive, also, the fact that Mariana, who has spent her childhood rambling in the  garden and being warm-hearted (without a school, a governness, or any strict discipline at all at home, it seems), can muster the self-discipline necessary to study and learn such a language as Urdu in ...3 months!!! a feat that surely not even the great Sir Richard Burton could equal and that allows her to be employed as lady-translator for the governor's sisters.    But what I find especially hard to believe in this novel is the romance in it and the ineraction of the two main characters. Would such a man as Hassan fall deeply in love with a 19-year-old girl? would such a girl really be capable of living through the situations that she finds herself involved in, of taking those decissions? Has the life she has led until now prepared her for all this? Why does world-wise, intelligent Hassan fall in love with her? What does she find in her? I can't believe all this.    Because of this failure in conjuring atmosphere or creating round characters the story, in spite of the atractive plot, is totally unbelievable and a great deception.	2004-10-31
US	43784359	R1YC3O88M8T95F	0894102036	369320688	The Music of Human Flesh (Arab authors)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	poems of the lost roots	These poems by the famous Mahmoud Darwish, probably the best known contemporary Arab poet, sing the tragedy of the Palestinian people. We see this tragedy mostly through two contrasting themes in the book: peasants, countryside, lands, trees, crops, villages and family life (so vividly transmitted that you can almost smell the kitchen fires and taste the food) belong to the past, when the Palestinian people were rooted in their villages and countryside, working their ancestral lands; cells, bullets, airports, identifications, blood, desperation...belong to the present uprooting of the Palestinian people. The contrast is sharp, and the author conveys the hopeless and meaningless suffering caused by a very complicated situation...and the longing for the past, the roots, the simple way of life. Ironically, some of these poems are called psalms, like those we can find in the Bible, some of which were written by Hebrew people during their exhile in Babylon to express a longing for the land where their roots were.	2004-10-31
US	43784359	R3K7M9Q08YOP9	1402700342	621058490	Symbols of Islam	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not for the serious student	If you are serious in your exploration of Islam, this book will not be very useful. Although the idea of giving an explanation of the religious symbols found in islamic art and other religious manifestations is quite good, the author has not bothered to state such basic things as her sources or even a simple bibliography. Of course, there are no notes either. It is impossible to go on reading from here, and you will never learn from where did the author gather her knowledge. There is another important flaw: the strong bias in favour of Islam sometimes is so apologetic as to read as a justification, and I really don't think the religion of Islam has anything to apologize for (although I cannot say the same of some muslims), so I find this quite unnecessary and cumbersome. <br />In spite of all this, my review is a three stars because the book does, at least, give the names and description of many important artistic symbols, and it also gives the popular or folk (I think this is so, since the sources are not quoted) meanings attached to them.	2004-10-16
US	43784359	R2Y5545Y3X6XJN	0892540419	66566855	Modern Woman in Search of Soul: A Jungian Guide to the Visible and Invisible Worlds (Jung on the Hudson Books)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	spiritual perspective	Jungian analyst June Singer gives us in this book a perspective of the spiritual paths open for us in the times we live. She links these spiritual paths, through the point of view of Jung's analytic psychology, to some of the most original religious practices in christianity, namely the gnostics, but also to scientific knowledge and rational values. The aim of the book is ambitious, since the author wants to present study and knowledge, but also self-study and self-knowledge, as a whole, as doorways which can lead us, if we are not blind to the possibilities open before us, to connect spirit and reason, unconscious and intellect. Although the book is addressed to \\"modern women\\", the author does not really write about women, but her advice can be used by any person, man or woman, which is alright for me. In the realm of the spirit we won't find the superficial gender distinction. And this realm the author urges us to enter through our ordinary daily activities and routines, through or usual studies and pursues, commiting ourselves to look at them from different points of view so that we see further than what only our senses tell us. She urges us to make this commitment in order to learn about the world, about ourselves, about the spirit... and thus change the world. Study, spirit, self-knowledge as a militancy. According to the gnostics, the greatest sin is ignorance.	2004-10-09
US	43784359	R3DKZS9H2X1NJ	0966800508	639898632	The Weaver Takes a Wife	Books	4	3	4	N	N	witty but superficial	this is a deliciously well written regency romance that will give you instant satisfaction. The problem is,precisely, the \\"instant\\" nature of this satisfaction. Although you will chuckle through the pages for some hours (it is a short read), you'll find it doesn't give you much food for thought. The problem of the terrible British class system of the time is not explored even though the author creates a protagonist couple with an abyssmal problem of class difference. The issue of the moral principles that such society favoured (an issue that is all-important in Jane Austen's novels) is not really touched, even though the novel has a hero (the weaver) who is presented as having a higher moral standard that his \\"betters\\". However, we are not really shown how he has come to be so morally superior (especially given the hard circumstances of his early life), and we find that the character has been created this way to procure a contrast for the , quite plain and charicaturesque, corrupt and vicious aristocratic characters, and thus contrive to the wittiness of the story. Quite different from the novels by Bernard Cornwell ( the Sharpe novels and the Gallows Thief) where the class system of the period is explored thoroughly. The ending of this novel is a quick and unbelievable affair, too. But I give it 4 stars because the use of the language, the vocabulary of the period and, especially, the witty dialogues (full of understatements and wildly funny sarcasm) gave me a very good time indeed.	2004-08-31
US	43784359	R3N9LJS33J4AFP	0553382047	591346591	Last of the Amazons	Books	5	18	22	N	N	historical fiction that is interesting for fantasy readers	The point of this novel is not exactly to paint a historically accurate description of the period in which the story is set. This novel narrates the clash of two very different cultures, of two drastically opposed views of life and the world. On the one hand, the Amazons are described as a matriarchal nation, highly conservative and very respectful of the ways of nature, so much so that they see horses as their soul brothers and they hate to live in cities, and they have kept this way of life for centuries. On the other hand, the Greek come from a patriarchal society which is consciously bent on change: in Athens, king Theseus is changing the way kingdoms and states are ruled, making the citizens take part in, and assume responsibility for, the state affairs.     The Greek arrive as strangers and travellers in the land of the Amazons, where they preach about the moral superiority of their new and dynamic urban society  to a wary audience who does not want to change their ancestral ways. But in fact, the role of the Greek in history was to bring change, and this is what Theseus and his companions do, even though unwillingly, with their mere presence which sparks an unstoppable chain reaction of disaster and change.     Which of these two civilizations is better? The conservative, respectful of nature Amazons (who, we are shown, can be quite brutal and cruel, in the unconcerned, detached way also of nature)? or the daring, all-for-change, urban Greek(who don't consider their womenfolk as proper citizens and don't allow them the same advantages as men)? The Amazon live among their horses, following the rythms of nature. The Greek live in cities and try to control nature with their agriculture and commerce. We know the result of this culture clash, but we are certainly given food for thought by the author.     This novel reads almost as a Robin Hobb or George R.R.Martin fantasy novel, because of the battle action and the way the clash of cultures and the end of a worldare portrayed. And even though the narrative structure (with one narrator who explains the story as it has been told to her by other narrators) makes the reading a bit jumpy, it is very worthwhile and rewarding.	2004-08-31
US	43784359	R32JCCUPSZMVSZ	0425190153	5164927	A Catch of Consequence (Makepeace Hedley)	Books	5	54	55	N	N	This book is a great catch!	What a wonderful novel! It is so full of surprises, whenever you think \\"Aha! I know just what is coming now!\\" you are wrong and the story takes an unsuspected turn that causes you to become \\"glued\\" to it. You really can't put it down!     The plot, set in the 18th century (1765), is divided into three different parts corresponding to the three diferent locations where events take place. The main character, Makepeace Burkin, changes and evolves throughout the story, as she suffers the consequences of the \\"catch\\" the story begins with. Her solid puritan, egalitarian, business-oriented, no-nonsense American upbringing has made her hard-working, obstinate and fiercely independent, and it is a help in the moral choices she is constantly confronted with. However, the novel is not moralistic at all, and neither is the main character. She is a lovely tavern owner and supporter of the American cause against the British tyrants, who cannot imagine her life is going to take such a drastic turn. She has to stretch her moral principles indeed to cover many of the unbelievable, unimaginable situations she is involved in.     There are many historically relevant themes in the novel, which is set in such interesting times and is narrrated from the point of view of an outsider (a colonial, a woman) who travels to the metropolis, Britain, and does not see it with much sympathy: she generally distrusts and despises the ruling classes and is confronted with many a hilarious, almost surrealistic situation whenever she is in the company of the rigid British aristocratic crowd in their own sophisticated home (Yes. Makepeace finds herself and her eccentric , lovable \\"family\\" in the tyrants' lair, in London) .     However, those looking for a very romantic novel should be warned that, even though there IS a wonderful and heart-warming love story, the author does not overindulge in the romantic side of things. In fact, she is quite frugal and leaves quite a lot for the readers' imagination.The greatest strengths of the novel are: it is a VERY GOOD story well told (a really good yarn) and the characters are all ROUND and well FLESHED OUT, even those that we only see for two pages and then dissapear. The highly interesting atmosphere of the era is described through the events or actions that affect the characters, the author never gives encyclopedia-like explanations.In short, it is a wonder how so much atmosphere, so vibrating a story, and such eccentric but believable characters  can be created by the author in just about 400 pages! Don't miss it! You won't regret it.	2004-02-24
US	43784359	R22C0CV2H0HRN9	0553575635	333696092	Ship of Magic (The Liveship Traders, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hobb rules the waves!	Can fantasy get any better than this? I don't think so. Robin Hobb is one of the best writers out there and she vastly proves it in this trilogy. The idea of mixing seafaring high adventure (pirates included!) and fantasy is just another example of Hobb's mastership. The setting is spectacular: the world is, in general, ample terms, that of the Farseer trilogy; but while this latter's story is set in a medieval-like group of kingdoms and fiefdoms, the Liveship Traders trilogy is set far to the east of these, in the lands controlled by the city-metropolis of Jamaillia. This city is a kind of Byzantium or Rome, an ancient, sophisticated metropolis with a very complicated (and corrupt) political system, and several very rich colonies-satellites. Bingtown, where the main characters of the story come from, is one of these colonies and its commercial elite has survived the harshness of the dangerous setting by sheer strength, sharpness and will power...and by an extremely accute sense of honour that has always made them be true to their word and pay their debts (in &quot;gold or blood&quot;). This pride in their sense of honour has allowed them to keep strong links with their metropolis,  while trading in the most precious and costly of merchandise, a merchandise that hides a well-kept secret that has made them rich but for which a terrible price has had to be paid. The moral issues arise from the conflicts that the characters have to face in their changing and corrupt society, but the author is too good to hit us with these issues on the head -as so many fantasy authors do nowadays. And this is what is really glorious about the author: she manages to present her themes without writing an overly simple pamphlet about what is right and wrong. Because in times of change, they are not so easy to see.	2004-02-08
US	43784359	R3PGUI4F4RBATU	0446392944	997855913	Jung to Live by	Books	4	28	31	N	N	useful, in spite of	This book is useful in the sense that it helps clarify, and shows the hierarchy of, many of Jung's concepts of deep psychology. However, it has several shortcomings. The most important of these is that, even though the author insists on the importance of inner work with all the concepts explained, he never indicates how this inner work is to be performed. For instance, he states the importance of the four functions of consciousness and the typology that consequently people belong to; however, after insisting on this throughout many pages, and saying that interpersonal relations, especially in the work place, are easier and more conflict-free if we consider the typology of people, he goes on to tell us that there are two ways to find out this typology: a test performed by a therapist or constant study of the person during a long period of time -hardly a very practical way of solving interpersonal conflicts in your work place or of preparing a meeting. With most of the other concepts explained, the suggestions of practical action are even vaguer; only in the two last chapters there is a haste, not terribly detailed, explanation of how to work with dreams and active imagination. So much for the practical, applicable side of this book. Another serious shortcoming is that, when the author explains many of the abstract issues of deep psychology, he rarely gives examples taken from real people; he rather gives invented examples such as, &quot;when a person is under the influence of a negative shadow he or she may...&quot;. This invented examples are often very exagerated, suposedly to show the author's sense of humour, and they do little to clarify the issues compared to real-life cases. When real-life cases are explained, only the conflict is given, but not usually how this was solved. However, as I have already said, this book is useful to understand many of Jung's complicated concepts, and as an introduction or first step in you journey of self-knowledge.	2003-12-29
US	43784359	R1QZPWF1CNVP74	0062507540	29756441	Owning Your Own Shadow: Understanding the Dark Side of the Psyche	Books	4	77	82	N	N	Meet your shadow	I am currently ordering from amazon all the books by Robert A.Johnson, so this was the next one. This is a good general axplanation of the jungian concept of shadow illustrated, as it is usual in Johnson, with examples of western literature and art in general. The explanation of the mandorla (a typically mediaeval figure representing two circles that overlap, and that symbolizes the union of the opposites or paradox) is especially interesting. However, I have to give this book 4 stars because, after insisting so much on the importance of examining our shadow, honouring our shadow and balancing ego and shadow, he never gives a clue of how we can do do this.	2003-11-22
US	43784359	R3SDG6BZYFCRG5	0441010296	301706376	Jenna Starborn	Books	5	2	6	N	N	funny and delicious treat	this book is an absolute treat. If you love Jane Eyre -so do I- you will feel the fun in foreseeing the events in the plot but wondering how the author will adapt them to this sf setting. If you love science fiction you will feel interested in the  multilayered society that the author decpicts, where the caste one person is born in is totally decissive of this person's fate. I don't feel that any literary work is untouchable or sacred, as long as the new versions respect the themes that the original author wanted to convey. This version unquestionably does. On the other hand, I think the original, beloved Jane Eyre is also a wonderful version of the ancient tale of Beauty and the Beast. This is, of course, not the only remake that we know of Jane Eyre; I suppose everybody remembers Rebecca so...what's all the fuss about? Jane Eyre is such a good story, it conveys its thems so well, that it is immortal and can be adapted to any period of time ...including the far future of a sf novel. And only an author who loved this story and knew it in depth could attempt to do what Sharon Shinn has done here. Thank you, Ms.Shinn, for proving to me in this nice way that Jane Eyre will never die and that its message will always be good!	2003-11-16
US	43784359	R3QEM467JZU5JI	0689830513	652800812	Shadow Spinner (A Jean Karl Book)	Books	1	20	50	N	N	how dares she?!	How dares this author destroy the wonderful character of Shahrazad? I understand that she wants to present a shy, physically imperfect girl (Marjan) as a person who realises her strength and helps Shahrazad inside the dangerous and cruel world of the harem. I understand that she wants to take the characters of the mythical story and make them round, flesh them out -and, very naively, make them soun \\"real\\". But did she have to depict Shaharzad as terrified and on the brink of a nervous breakdown, constantly fearing for her life? And, even worse, how do we believe, then, that even though she is afraid of being murdered by the sultan -as hundreds of girls had been before her- she, in fact, loves him? Uh??? The author wants the characters to sound \\"real\\" and she makes Shahrazad love a dangerous psycho-killer who has killed hundreds of young girls and who can also kill her any day??? And, this is really cheap!, the person responsible for this, the one who is really guilty of the sultan's behaviour is ... his mother!!! who manipulates him like a puppet. And yet Shahrazad deeply loves him. Well, I really didn't reach the end of this awful, stupid miscreation. The characters of THE ARABIAN NIGHTS cannot be taken as real people (it would be really difficult to explain their behaviour in real-life terms, especially the sultan's), they are myths or symbols. Shahrazad represents the strength and seduction that story-telling (in any form) has and will always have for us, humans. Her story-telling sessions teach, cure and, ultimately make human the sultan. Read to your children the original tales (which were such a children's classic in the 19th century) and don't destroy for them the character of Shahrazad, the power, fascination and wisdom that they will find in stroy-telling.	2003-11-02
US	43784359	R2SKJ0TL0FN0SD	0061044709	377492121	Here I Stay	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Great anti-cliché	Since I don't like romantic novels -that is, novels that are centered on the romance between the characters- I began to read this with extra caution and a pinch of prejudice. I also bore in mind that it is extremely difficult to find a &quot;gothic&quot; novel that is not full of the usual &quot;blood-curdling&quot; clichs. But I knew this author already as Elizabeth Peters and thought that she narrated wonderfully well with a great sense of humour, and I had heard such good things of her as Barbara Michaels that I decided to give it a try .... Boy, was I wrong! This writer is particularly good at character building (more so than in the Amelia Peabody series, where the characters are funnier but more like charicatures), so much so that we feel we are getting to know real people. This is especially the case with the main character, Andrea, who is bound to learn a great lesson and evolve throughout the story, and from whose point of view the events are told.The romance comes really as a natural consequence of the evolution of these characters, and it is never forced or far-fetched -and, of course, thank heavens!, it is not a romance between physically perfect, young and extraordinary people, but quite a realistic affair between two common middle-aged persons. The &quot;gothic&quot; atmosphere is never clich and it is very intelligently contrived, so that rational, intelligent readers don't have to laugh or feel indignation...It is, well, there and not there (I can't say more without revealing). But the most important thing is that this novel centers on the evolution of well-built, round characters and the lessons they learn about life. The romance is part of this evolution, and never the most important element, and the &quot;gothic&quot; is part of the setting and never full of clichs or the justification of the events. I expect to read more from this author soon.	2003-10-26
US	43784359	R93MFLQL21AD3	0061030155	960212179	Shining Through	Books	3	4	20	N	N	What a disappointment!	I bought this book after reading the enthusiastic reviews on amazon, but soon after beginning to go through it I learned the hard truth: it broke the number one rule for characterization. That rule states that the writer doesn't have to say how a character is, but rather let the reader deduce this from his/her actions and his/her dialogue. Well, at the beginning of this novel we are repeatedly told by the narrator that John, her boss, is gorgeous. We know little else about him appart from the fact that Linda, the narrator and main character, says that he is perfect: handsome, rich, intelligent and cultivated ...she says. Some ten pages later on she also tells us how she fell in love with him because she saw that he was beautiful inside ...she says. But never, at least up to page 50, is he given the opportunity to speak or, indeed, are we given the opportunity to see through his actions and own words his personality. Of course the narrator (Linda) goes on to do the same with all the other characters, constantly telling us what to think of them. Really, I don't want to be told WHAT to think of a character, I want to be SHOWN how the character is and then decide by myself...And I have so many other books to read that may just follow this important rule that I had to drop this one.	2003-09-29
US	43784359	R3EPSWK7ELXSDM	0062504312	145458700	Inner Work: Using Dreams and Active Imagination for Personal Growth	Books	5	36	36	N	N	The Wisdom Inside	This wonderful book is clear and practical, and really goes to the point. It instructs you and helps you at two levels: first it explains how our dreams and imagination function as a link between our conscious and unconscious lives; then it goes on to instruct the reader on how to learn from this link and how to build a fruitful and lifelong dialogue between these two spheres of being. In order to achieve the latter, the author shows us, with clear examples, the way to understand our dreams and to use our imagination and so find the wisdom that we all have inside. Although this all sounds like any other self-help book, here the author never means to sound witty, empty or artificially triumphant. He promises nothing and makes sure we understand that what he is telling us is nothing new: many cultures use these same methods for the psychological, spiritual well-being of people. But we happen to be living in a time and culture that have lost the sense of inner life.Reading this book is like listening to the words of a loving teacher, who knows things because &quot;he has been there before&quot;.Well-written and packed with no-nonsense spirituality, without losing touch with the world where we live or our common sense.	2003-07-13
US	43784359	R34QA9OFU539W1	0805061770	323177781	From the Holy Mountain: A Journey among the Christians of the Middle East	Books	5	7	9	N	N	packed with knowledge and sympathy	What I most enjoyed about this wonderful book was not the fact that it was packed from cover to cover with knowledge -and it truly is- but the sympathy that the author obviously felt for the people he met in his journey.Dalrymple speaks about them with such a good-humoredly warmth that, after reading his narrative, you feel you would like to know more about their lives and you even worry about what is going to happen to them in the decadent and perilous world that the author depicts. I think this is the real triumph of this book: that the author makes us learn about a truly fascinating world while, at the same time, feeling respect and concern for the people who inhabit it and make it possible.And this is something quite unusual in the usually author-traveler centred travel literature I absolutely recomend it!	2003-06-01
US	43784359	R2NAV16F7C85G8	0553283685	47311872	Hyperion (Hyperion Cantos)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	literature to the core	what amazed me the most about this excellent sci-fi novel is the variety of levels at which it could be read: war, spies, political intrigue, religious quest, travel and exploration, adventure .... I was especially awed by all the references to, and the obvious love and passion for, literature.These literary references are found in the very core and structure of the novel, since the main characters are pilgrims that tell their stories (Chaucer anyone?) while they travel in the planet of Hyperion, whose most important city is Keats (Romantics anyone?). It goes without saying that the better you know your literary classics, the more you will enjoy this aspect of the novel--and I think this aspect does not remain in the superficial level of witty names and situations, but goes deeper in the plot and structure to say something about the significance of these literary works. This doesn't mean that Hyperion cannot be read, too , and mainly, as an excellen sci-fi work that explores in a very intelligent way, some of the most important moral issues of our culture. Mind you, the story does not finish in this book.	2003-04-26
US	43784359	R3H2GO4AN4RWYQ	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	2	2	N	N	my favourite Faulkner and the Bible	O.K., so this is not exactly easy to read. At the beginning you have to constantly deduce who is narrating. But once you have learnt that the whole story of the Sutpen family is going to be told through a series of interviews between Quentin and several witnesses of the facts related, you can relax and really enjoy it. For me, one of the greatest wonders and sources of joy in this novel was to find the paralelisms between the story of the Sutpen family and that of king David of the Bible. And even though we know what is going to happen with Colonel Sutpen and his offspring (especially the one who stands for Absalom), Faulkner's chilling solution for the conlfict is inevitably amazing. Do I need to add that the paralelism does not only work at the level of the Sutpen family tragedy, but also with the historical setting --the heroic times of the American Civil War in the South?. One of the jewels of universal literature.	2003-04-26
US	43784359	R3BFNB6526VTXC	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	moral principles and umbrella	Wherever Amelia Peavody goes, she has two very useful assets: her moral principles (solid victorian upbringing) and her umbrella (great against the rain, the desert sun and any rascals that may attempt to hurt her or her friends).In fact, one of the funniest things about this character is how, by way of scrupulously and stricly following her ethical code --which is supposed to be shared by all her fellow countrymen--, she manages to be an extravagant outsider, almost a revolutionary. And the whodonit plot seems a showcase for this, since it actually provides perfect occasions for Amelia to assert her ideas and character. Another very funny thing about this character is her love life. The romantic part of this book follows the well known (and irresistible, if well done)hate-at-first-sight-that-turns-into-love formula. And I warn you....you will inevitably fall in love with Emmerson!	2003-04-26
US	43784359	R3SNC4SPA6B9K2	0060082739	92035455	Gallows Thief	Books	5	3	3	N	N	riches-to-rags	This is much more than a historical whodonit. Sandman, the hero, has just suffered a reverse of fortune when the story begins: his father has committed suicide because he was bankrupted, and has left his family without a penny. All the plans that Sandman had for the future have been destroyed, including his intention to marry a beautiful, intelligent and rich heiress. He finds himself living in the worst part of London, sharing the squalor and appalling conditions of life with the \\"dregs\\" of society. The author makes a wonderful work of describing these (without being too sordid), from the point of view of one who, until recently, belonged to the privileged class. In fact the main character learns a lot about this formerly hidden aspect of his society. And it is one of the triumphs of the novel that he will only redeem himself, and find a new place in society, when (with the help of these same \\"dregs\\", including a highwayman, a girl who is on the path to whoredom and an ex-soldier thug) he undoes a terrible unjustice (the whodonit aspect of the novel)while always trying to keep his moral standards which, as he learns, are not necessarily kept by the higher society people for whose only benefit, it seems, the \\"justice\\" of his country is made. It is this rigid moral code of the hero, which he follows even when he deals with \\"scum\\", what endears him to us, what helps him find good qualities in \\"low\\" people and bad qualities in \\"high\\" people, and what finally makes him get out of the cul-de-sac where he finds himself at the beginning of the story. I loved it!	2003-02-25
US	43784359	R1XVDUH6NBYK5B	0380718758	120549291	Snow White, Blood Red	Books	2	8	10	N	N	"adult" disappointment	I totally agree with Illana's review of this book:we, readers, don't get a deeper retelling of these traditional tales, but a veneer of sex and violence that gives them an \\"adult\\" appearance. While I found the sex and violence were totally superficial and unnecessary, and they didn't manage to move my profounder feelings, I felt deceived in my intention of going deeply into these beloved stories. I think that good fantasy writers often succeed in a deeper view on folk tales without announcing their intentions to the readers, but subtly letting them find similitudes in theme and characterization. Maybe this is because good fantasy writers let themselves be carried away by the powerful archetypal potential latent in everybody's mind and explored since the dawn of time through folk tales.	2002-11-10
US	43784359	R1TAPBKBWF5WDX	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	3	1	8	N	N	Where is the theme?	Although the writer's style is good and words seem to flow, I can't really say what this story is about. The whole plot revolves around the symptoms and the progress of an epidemic, which is hardly a deep conflict felt by the main character , but a mere accident she is the victim of--in fact, the only decision she has to make is to wait. Too much of the suspense relies on the fact that, due to the quarantine and the pace of this epidemic, characters fail to communicate with one another. When at LONG last communication is reestablished, the story ends. Without a theme that bounds the elements of the story , this turns out to be a bunch of anecdotes, medical data, and descriptions of several attempts and failures at communication, thrown together.It doesn't convey anything else.	2002-10-06
US	43784359	R306RMTLQ8UA7T	0756400414	388527482	The Complete Ivory (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Great Gods of Scholars!	this is one of the typical exclamations of the heroine, Theodora, when she finds herself in deep trouble in the alien, exotic and baroque world of Ivory, where, by the way, she is living by no design of her own --she was deserted there by her travelling companions, after having been abduced and robed. Theodora, alone and helpless in the Ivoran mercyless society, tries to save money to pay her journey back to her original planet (the orderly, rational, scholarly Athena) while, and this is really tough,keeping the Athenan moral standards. The story that ensues is a delightfully funny tale of discovery and misunderstandings, the clash of two very different ethical systems which we witness while Theodora gets deeper and deeper in trouble. BUT this is only the first of the novels in the trilogy, because the author does what I had never thought could be done: while never losing the witty sense of humour -you'll keep chuckling like crazy- that characterizes the narrator/protagonist and makes her so endearing, the second novel is a high adventure story, complete with outlaws; and the third novel is a murder mystery with our dear Theodora (now definitely living in Ivory) as a reluctant sleuth. In this trilogy there is humour, adventure, ethics, love, scholarly pursuits, magic, interplanetary trips... Kanz! Why hadn't I heard of it before?  A page-turner, definitely worth reading.	2002-08-31
US	43784359	RI8LEQLA2AZCO	0486296806	176535890	From Ritual to Romance	Books	5	11	15	N	N	searching for the roots	this book is a must for anybody interested in the tales and legends centred upon the Grial. It is also very pleasant to read. The author presented here the (then, that is 1920) revolutionary theory that most elements in the cycle of the Grial stories are actually the remnants of incredibly old fertility rituals that, somehow, survived in  remote parts of the Roman empire. It is extremely interesting to see how the author reached this conclusion and how she was prepared to defend it against the campaigners for the christianity of the Grial. And on top of everything, she writes in a deliciously archaic English, sprinkled with French and Latin (mind the quotations. They are not translated)	2002-07-12
US	43784359	R2ZXYAK98RIRBM	069101776X	121561584	The King and the Corpse: Tales of the Soul's Conquest of Evil	Books	5	23	24	N	N	the tales that teach	I just love this book. The story from which the book takes its title profoundly affected me the first time I read it: it is the story of an Indian king who has to take part in a quest.This turns out to be an unexpected and thoroughly comprehensive lesson in life and the king emerges from it as a new and wiser person. You will also feel different after reading it. All the stories related in this book are incredibly old but can still connect with the deepest part of our souls. A book to reread.	2002-05-15
US	43784359	R1WUO555D7BJV8	0345350499	627223385	The Mists of Avalon	Books	3	2	3	N	N	not such a gem	I followed the advise of the people who told me to read this novel because it was a \\"gem\\" of a book. I agree that it is very well-written, with a rich vocabulary and a good rythm and style. Also, the idea of presenting the facts of the Arthurian legend from the point of view of Morgana is original and attractive. However, I didn't like the main character, Morgana proper, in that she is a pessimistic person who is always complaining about the hardships of her life. She seems not to find anything to enjoy and ,from the beginning, she is presented as a looser, even though she has a clear mission that should make her feel alive with passion. If, in spite of the fact that her people and religion are doomed to disappear, she has so many things to do, why is she always moaning? For me, a likeable character is one that shows a passion for life, despite the hardships. I have to add that this is one of the first fantasy books that I read, and it deterred me from reading more of this genre for some time.	2002-05-12
US	43784359	R4CFHZ58MQWYT	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	2	4	10	N	N	nasty ending	Although I loved the first two books in this trilogy (and I wrote a review of the first book accordingly), I found this third one very different. Many writers say that ending a novel is the most delicate and difficult part of the writing creative process. I dont doubt it and,if we have to judge by this trilogy, the ending can totally spoil the good time we were having so far. The only explanation I could find for the awful way in which this trilogy ends is that the writer got to hate her main character and she wanted to punish him. It is not that I only want happy endings, it is that here the author goes beyond unhappy.	2002-05-12
US	43784359	R2AI87DXH1HO5E	0553577239	76171339	The Bone Doll's Twin (Tamir Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	the power of fate	Fate has an important role in this story about the first years of a future hero --who is, in fact, a heroine-- and the ever-present ghost of his twin brother. We see the life of Tobin from the beginning until he (she) realizes who he (she) really is. The tension is built to have its climax in the moment of final discovery, where the novel ends. Even though we witness the secret event and know the truth from the beginning, the author manages to have us thrilled and turning pages at a fast pace to learn HOW what-we-know is going to happen. I also loved the no-nonsense use of magic, always logical and justified, and the role that the &quot;old religion&quot;, the Goddess religion which has almost disappeared, has in the story.There is also love,fear, friendship, loyalty and adventure. I simply loved this novel and will read everything that I find by the same author.	2002-05-11
US	43784359	RT63826PBNNVI	0441006477	56857626	Watchtower (CHRONICLES OF TORNOR)	Books	2	8	18	N	N	sorry, had to drop it.	I just couldn't finish reading this book. When I had read half of it and I still didn`t see where the point of the story was, I had to quit. I did not care about the characters (in fact I knew little about them, they are so sketchy)and the scenery was so dull and lacking in detail that it was impossible to be conjured by imagination.In fact, up to the point in mid-story where I dropped it, the whole story seems aimless and without a real sense of an obvious conflict that has to be resolved. As for the writing style, the sentences ar too short, which makes the rythm artificial and strained. Really, I can't see why this novel got the world fantasy award.	2002-05-05
US	43784359	R2GUKG7TMW2Z7G	0441008216	250670386	Heart of Gold	Books	4	2	3	N	N	comfortable reading	what I love about this novel is the confident, seamless style of the author. You don't need to make great efforts when reading this story about two different societies that have totally opposed, incompatible lifestyles. Even though the issues are clearly thought-provoking, the second half of the story is entirely predictable. In fact, there are very few surprises altogether -we know from the beginning who is going to fall in love with whom, as we know that the author cannot present us any of the societies (matriarchy and patriarchy) as perfect and has to make their defects stand out. Having said this about the plot, I think the characters are well fleshed out, we care about them and we see how they change throughout the story. The character of Kit, a girl who does not belong in any of the two societies and has a drive for rebellion, is especially likeable. All in all, I like the smoothness of this writer's style and I feel comfortable when reading her books.	2002-04-10
US	43784359	R1KNF6069SE7ZJ	0385418868	26788304	The Power of Myth	Books	3	3	5	N	N	a bit of a disappointment	although this book has certainly encouraged me to read more by Joseph Campbell, I don't think it is a good book on its own merit. The interviewer'squestions are too repetitive and he seems obsessed with Star Wars while he doesn't follow the interesting cues in Campbell's answers. The reader finds that there are many topics mentioned but none explored thoroughly or at least in the perspective that a lifetime devoted to the subject gives. I actually didn't learn a lot about \\"the power of myth\\".	2002-03-16
US	43784359	R2ZQMMXD4EPU3M	0446673714	604192884	The Soul's Code: In Search of Character and Calling	Books	4	3	4	N	N	good vibrations	good and possitive vibrations is what you get after reading this book. I like the whole reasoning that it gives for \\"following your bliss\\". It makes you feel justified when you are doing that which you like most, in that you are really keeping in touch with your innermost layer and building the stronghold of your being. I didn't like, though, the stress on famous people. The author could have also picked an example of an ordinary but happy and successful life story.	2002-03-16
US	43784359	RRMPY4G15CXZA	0553280643	542044764	The Gate to Women's Country	Books	5	5	5	N	N	sci-fi with tragical scope	this is the first Tepper novel I've read and I love the tragedy implied in the story. It's not only the references to the war of Troy, but also that when the victims of that war (women, according to the author)finally get their revenge (after many centuries and an implied nuclear holocaust), they are left with a feeling of bitterness. Is it possible to govern a world, to make tough life-or-death decissions, and not be unfair? Is it possible to play the role that men have traditionally played and not make the same mistakes? Tragedy and food for thought.	2002-01-13
US	43784359	R1B11S7LDWFCCC	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	a lovable assassin	I really loved this novel and was impressed by the author's idea of choosing a narrator and main character (Fitz) whose life and actions are not in his own hands, but in the hands of others who use him as just another pawn. We see the whole story through the eyes of this sensitive, compassionate (and he is an assassin! that must be quite difficult to accomplish!) and very &quot;special&quot; orphan boy.Everything you can ask of a good story is there:love, loneliness, politics, intrigue, ambition, mistery and death, and , especially, the feeling that this land really exists and these events really happened. The local atmosphere and descriptions are so well-crafted that you are able to feel the warmth and fluffiness of the puppies that have such a special connection with Fitz. I have just bought the rest of the novels in the trilogy and can't wait to read them! I also hope to establish a long-lasting writer/reader relationship with Robin Hobb.	2002-01-02
US	43784359	RFDGGPY3XACQ8	0553568736	544858652	A Plague of Angels	Books	3	3	4	N	N	good world-building, messy ending	I very much enjoyed the first half of this book, that is, I loved learning about the world that Tepper  created and was thrilled to know about the different characters and their relations. I didn't like the main character, though, the Orphan, because I never got to feel her from the &quot;inside&quot;; I just saw her through the other characters' motivations to relate to her,and I never really felt what drove her to act as she did.Nevertheless, the most unsatisfactory part of this novel was its ending; it is as if the author got tired of the story and decided to end it no matter how, leaving the readers with too many questions.	2001-12-30
US	43784359	R1GVS4730ZI4AD	0064404773	611302574	Beauty: A Retelling of the Story of Beauty and the Beast	Books	4	1	1	N	N	simply the tale	What I like about this book is that it tells the story of the classical fairy tale without adding much, but telling us a lot about the characters, explaining their actions and creating a true personality for them. This, together with the fact that we are shown many details of their everyday lives, makes us feel for them, suffer with their misfortunes and be happy with their happiness.	2001-12-16
US	43784359	R1U5EWVDMJ6W9K	0441068804	887280747	The Blue Sword	Books	2	17	30	N	N	vague and far-fetched	This is a typical case of good against evil fantasy story, set in a land called Daria -which reminds me of India- colonized by a country called Homeland -which inevitably makes me think of England. The plot of the story is quite ordinary, with the unsurprising story of a girl-heroine as she changes from the pennyless, lonely orphan Harry Crewe to the powerful warrior-maid Harimad-sol. The problem is the vagueness of the characters' actions and motivations. Why do they act as they do? This is more so in the case of the evil enemies: Why are they so bad? What are their powers and where do they come from? How can we understand their threat if we do not know this? The few explanations given are too far-fetched to make us understand what moves the characters to act and, instead, we feel the author is cheating; for instance, towards the end of the book we learn that one of Harry's ancestors was a Hillfolk, which we have to take as an explanation of almost everything that happens to her and of her extraordinary powers. The relationship between Harry and the King of the Hillfolk is also far-fetched; why do they fall in love at all? What hints did we have -or, indeed, did they themselves have- that this was going to happen other than it was the right thing to happen? I couldn't feel for the characters because I didn't understand their actions.	2001-12-16
US	43784359	R22CRSBSPAT3CY	0553212087	966622039	Howards End	Books	5	1	2	N	N	the tale of two sisters	Is it my obsession with Jane Austen or do the sisters in Howards End really have many things in common with those in Sense and Sensibility? We have the eldest, governing in the family and also carrying the burden of her unshared knowledge -derived from a mixture of wisdom, fairness and compassion-; and we have the youngest, whose actions are ruled by impulse and who therefore is wrong although she means well. There is also symbolism, so dear to the modernist fiction, which doesn`t prevent the author from building round, absolute characters that sound like real life. I was very amused by E.M.Foster's worry with globalization -which he calls &quot;cosmopolitanism&quot;- as a tendency opposed to those who want to keep England as close to its origins as possible -i.e. the author himself; actually, the whole novel and its symbolism revolve around this worry.In short, the two sisters sound very much like those in Sense and Sensibility, but E.M.Foster's intention is more intellectual, less social or ethical than that of Jane Austen's	2001-11-17
US	43784359	R1PIDCJEVKCUNQ	0061052345	820759373	Four Ways to Forgiveness	Books	5	7	8	N	N	hope and redemption	Le Guin, with her masterful use of seemingly simple and fluent prose, tells us the stories of how four very different people  find hope after terrible ordeals. The background to the stories --and also the main source of hope-- is the need to fight: against slavery, against enormous social inequalities and brutal sexual segregation... in short, against most of the worst injustices that we can find in our world, but that Le Guin transports to the imaginary planets of Yeowe and Werel. We see in these two planets, thanks to the author's mastery, an example of nightmarish distopias whose consequences are analysed in the four main characters. However, Le Guin is always more convincing when describing a society with defects (any kind of defect), and the reactions these defects provoke in the individual, than when describing highly evolved, almost perfect societies. These latter may be better to live in, but they sure are more boring to read about, since the author has to keep within the limits of the politically corect, and that shows.	2001-06-22
