US	43808030	R3TK48GWNE1BFF	0865165149	959587375	Servius' Commentary on Book Four of Virgil's Aeneid (English, Latin and Latin Edition)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Fresh Perspective from a Classic Commentary	The widely read story of Dido and Aeneas in Vergil's Book IV of the Aeneid brings up questions of love, duty, and honor. Yet while we are all familiar with modern comments on such elements as the cave scene, Rumor, and the future relationship between Romans and Carthaginians, Servius' commentary provides a look at the source of all these interpretations. This edition, offering flexibility while staying true to Vergil, would enrich any Aeneid class.<br />The book features the entire text of Book IV, with Servius' commentary below the lines of Vergil. Working by words or phrases, Servius provides detailed insight by clarifying meaning or citing other usages to suggest the many connotations of each word or phrase. In all his guidance, though, Servius stays true to Vergil, quoting most often from Book I of the Aeneid, followed by Book VI, Book II, and Book III. Infinitely more helpful than mere explanations, these constant comparisons to other passages from the Aeneid let readers draw their own insights from the text. Furthermore, when Servius quotes works other than the Aeneid, they are most often classics that Vergil would have read, rather than contemporaries of Servius. Indeed, the only authors cited more than five times in his Book IV commentary are Horace, Juvenal, Lucan, and Terence. Even in his own comments, Servius serves as a guide, helping readers find their own interpretation, rather than impressing his interpretation on others. For example, Servius helps us with this phrase from line 21, sparsos fraternal caede Penatis, \\"household gods were stained with his blood shed by a brother\\"(10). He writes, \\"if this refers to the household gods of Dido, we understand that they were scattered by flight; if it refers to those of her brother, then they were defiled by his blood\\"(11). The presentation of several possibilities leaves room for readers to develop their own interpretation.<br />Naturally, Servius' commentary is in its original Latin, but if the idea of translating a Latin commentary to help translate Vergil seems daunting, fear not! Each page of Latin text with commentary faces a page in English-the translation of both Servius' commentary and Vergil's lines. Besides the complete translation, the authors have provided us with a helpful introduction about the life of Servius and the textual tradition, including a complete list of the works and authors cited in Servius' commentary. Moreover, while Servius only credits the author for each quotation, this edition cites the work as well. We also have the advantage of endnotes on the commentary, giving definitions of words no longer in common usage or pointing to differences between Servius' translation and others'. <br />Thus, Servius' commentary contains a wealth of comparisons and possible interpretations. Students may especially benefit from the comparisons to passages from the first three books of the Aeneid, which they have already read. The real value comes from helping readers reach their own interpretations. Now, with a complete English translation and clear format, this new edition makes his commentary accessible to all classrooms. Any teacher would be able to supplement his or her teaching with insight drawn from this edition of Servius' Book IV commentary.	2004-01-02
US	43808030	R3C40G4A8283NW	0634032089	72055812	Coloratura Arias for Soprano: G. Schirmer Opera Anthology (G Schirmer Opera Anthology Series)	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Challenging but Manageable	An amateur soprano with an interest in opera, I was first introduced to this series through the Soprano Arias book.  However, that book had only a few arias that I was familiar with.  This Coloratura Aria set has many famous arias, such as the Queen of the Night's aria from the Magic Flute, Olympia's from Tales of Hoffman, etc.  There is a wide variety of languages, including, English, German, French, and Italian.  Every aria is translated in the beginning, rather than underneath the original text, preserving the composer's intent.<br />Moreover, this book presents the challenging arias in a way that makes them more accessible to those of us who may not be professional opera singers.  Many of the songs have two options for the ending--either the easier, simple ending, or the more difficult (and often higher) standard cadenza.  Most of the songs go up to at least two octaves above middle C, and some even go up to that high F.  However, I highly recommend this book for any opera enthusiast or soprano student looking to develop her range.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R17KRPJCEE1T0P	0865163170	516537606	A Handbook of Latin Literature: From the Earliest Times to the Death of St. Augustine	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Comprehensive Reference	Having studied Latin all throughout high school, I was thoroughly proficient in grammar and mythology.  However, I always felt lacking when it came to the wealth of Latin literature available.  Studying Vergil's epic, the Aeneid, took a year in itself.  At this rate, I would never become substantially familiar with Latin literature.<br />Then I was introduced to A Handbook of Latin Literature, a comprehensive reference of all significant authors and works.  While the degree of detail makes this book no easy read, the same factor makes it extremely useful, as I can just look up any author or work when I come across an unfamiliar reference and learn everything I need to know.  For the Latin scholar, I highly recommend this book as a collection of facts about literature.  For the rest of us, A Handbook of Latin Literature serves as an excellent reference book for a topic that is too often ignored.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R2S4ZDUOEJLQGT	0865164851	143570862	Words and Ideas	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Benefits of the Classics for All	This interactive book brings the enhanced vocabulary from studying Greek or Latin to everyone.  Having taken Latin throughout high school, I find myself frequently using that Latin vocabulary to figure out the meanings of unfamiliar English words.  From passing entrance exams to reading literature, knowing word roots is infinitely useful.  <br />Words &amp; Ideas builds vocabulary by explaining Latin and Greek roots of words in the context that they are used.  First, the book teaches readers to identify roots, with derivatives, charts to fill in, and even clever comic strips.  Later, the roots are grouped into sections such as \\"medicine,\\" \\"commerce and economics,\\" and \\"history,\\" not only defining the roots, but also providing historical background and humorous anecdotes, along with websites that have more information.  I heartily applaud the organization of this book-having the roots grouped by context, rather than alphabetically or randomly.  This way, they are taught just how they will later be seen, in related sets.  Moreover, the glimpses into Roman and Greek culture encourage readers not only to recognize and define the roots of words, but also to put these terms in better context.  This is an innovative approach to vocabulary building, introducing roots in related groups.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R2IYSH6TWC4IJT	0865165068	674331166	Yes, Virginia, There Is a Santa Claus in Latin!: Vere, Virginia, Sanctus Nicolaus Est! (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perfect Story to Share	At times, we all need to remember the magic of wonder and faith in what we cannot see.  Even the Classical authors contemplated the truth of the unknown.  This Christmas classic translated into Latin combines a beautiful story with the language of ancient philosophers.  And, it's a perfect introduction to abstract ideas-love, generosity, truth, beauty, transcendental reality-that are the basis of human interaction. <br />Complete with a full glossary of words, the book is approachable to any past, present, or future student of Latin.  For those who are not familiar with the language at all, the Latin text is followed by the English translation side-by-side with the Latin reproduced.  Moreover, the book encourages its readers to recall their own special Christmas memories on blank pages left especially for this purpose at the end of the book.  Perfect as a gift for any loved one, Yes, Virginia is beautifully illustrated, wonderfully told, and lovingly shared.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R1RN1IUVMOZ0WM	0865164037	683165520	Latin Readings for Review: Elementary Latin Translation Book (English and Latin Edition)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Excellent Supplement	This elementary translation book is an ideal supplement to help strengthen grammatical concepts learned in First or Second Year Latin.  The 96 passages progress in difficulty, not only reinforcing grammar, but also introducing students to Roman and Greek history, culture, and mythology.  What makes this reader unique, though, is that the readings in each section correspond unerringly with a set of grammatical concepts.  Thus, each passage will contain only the grammar learned up to that point, so students are not frustrated by an unfamiliar concept that they must figure out from context.<br />However, this reader is clearly a supplement for review, unsuited to serve as the sole means of instruction for a beginning student.  The passages do not provide vocabulary or notes underneath, although the glossary contains every word and the grammatical appendix lists every chart.  Moreover, there is no explanation of the grammar, only charts.  As a means of reinforcing concepts, though, Latin Readings will do more than just ensure understanding of grammar.  Students will find themselves immersed in the Greco-Roman world, figuring out the grammar to read of historical battles and people, daily life, and myths.  It is ideal as a review of grammar at the beginning of the school year, before getting into the next level of Latin.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R1Z222XBPQ1N8B	0865165440	111959815	Latin Proverbs: Wisdom from Ancient to Modern Times (Artes Latinae) (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Withstanding the Test of Time	With 1,188 proverbs, in English and Latin, this little book serves as a source of inspiration and reflection.  I was amazed that these words, written in ancient times, still hold true today.   The advice about relationships and human nature caused me to reexamine my own worldview and interactions.  The wry jokes written then transcend the barrier of time.  Moreover, the index of topics lists the quotes by appropriate keyword, so I could look up what authors thought about a certain topic.  The back of the book also provides the means to reference these quotes by author and works quoted.  <br />And unlike many other books of ancient words, Latin Proverbs holds true to these words, without any modern interpretation or analysis.  The reader is free to ponder the wisdom of the ancients without filters or suggestion.  This book contains the phrases that have withstood the test of time, bringing us insight from the ancients that demonstrate the shared bonds of the human condition.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R3PP9ERLEM05ZC	0865160317	885950228	Personae Comicae	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Common Ground in Comedy	The eight plays in this book will bring laughter and fun to any Latin classroom.  The characters and incidents are based on Plautus' plays, and occasionally some of Plautus' original lines are interwoven.  Suitable for a Second Year Latin class, the text is simplified grammatically so that students can focus more on enjoying the humor in the Latin and less on untangling the grammar.  Moreover, the words are set in a more rigid meter than Plautus would employ, making it easier to read aloud or memorize lines.<br />Whether a class is just translating the plays, or performing them in Latin, or performing them in English for younger classes, Personae Comicae shows off the lighter side of Latin, which is often seen as all intellectual.  Here, using colloquial Latin, Personae Comicae reaches and interacts with students in a way that Cicero cannot.  As short skits, these eight plays are ideal for class performance, whether as a dramatic reading or performance by the students.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R3T36LDBUQ5SCC	0865164509	168488303	Rome and Her Kings: Extracts from Livy I (Latin Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Skillful Blend	This graded reader is a wonderful introduction to reading Latin.  The passages are edited to allow students with an understanding of Latin grammatical concepts to apply that knowledge.  Unlike many recently published textbooks, the notes and vocabulary in Rome and Her Kings are not underneath each passage, but instead are grouped in sections following the passages.  While this may result in considerable page flipping for students who wish to use the notes alongside the text, the separation also discourages dependence on the notes, which is all too easy when they are right below the Latin.  Thus students who are stuck on a sentence can refer to the notes or glossary in the back for help, but they are encouraged to try translating on their own, which is what `reading' really is.  <br />Moreover, the content of the passages makes this text an even more appealing resource.  When I was taking Latin, we memorized the names of the seven Kings of Rome, and so the order of succession was all I knew.  This text starts with the destruction of Troy and journey of Aeneas to Italy and goes through the early historical figures and monarchs of Rome individually, providing interesting stories to give meaning to the names.  Students can also find a sense of accomplishment in knowing that they are reading the works of Livy, one of the most celebrated historians of Rome.  Rome and Her Kings makes reading Latin interesting through a skillful blend of Roman history and Latin grammar.	2003-08-31
US	43808030	R36U2NHUOSZOVR	086516309X	826585370	A Short Guide to Classical Mythology	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Reference	Kirkwood's &quot;A Short Guide to Classical Mythology&quot; is exactly what it claims to be.  Dictionary-like without being dry, the guide is an alphabetical list of people, places, and events in Greco-Roman mythology.  Some entries are short, referring the reader to a longer one.  The long entries are summaries of important epics or stories.  <br />While the format of the book makes it clearly a reference book instead of an exploration of mythology, this makes it a convenient and quick tool for students or teachers studying Classics, or simply for anyone unfamiliar with Classical Mythology.  As seen by the numerous references to more modern authors and poets such as Voltaire and Dante, mythological references are everywhere in literature, and those who may not have been steeped in this tradition in class would find this book extremely helpful.  Unlike other mythology books, such as Edith Hamilton's &quot;Mythology&quot; or D'Aulaires' &quot;Book of Greek Myths,&quot; this book is truly a &quot;short guide&quot; that does not require the reader to look up a person in the index and then read all the way through a story to find out about them.  Already alphabetical, Kirkwood's book gives a short description of the person, and anyone who wishes to read more can go to the story referenced.  This book is a great guide for readers with any level of interest in mythology.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	RVGFTGLDZNS1V	0865160457	298999043	More Latin Readings (Latin Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Must-have continuation of great text	Gertrude Drake's \\"More Latin Readings\\" is the continuation of passages ranging in style and content.  Like \\"Latin Readings,\\" the text offers a diverse approach to the transition from grammatical forms to actually reading Latin. The passages cover a wide range of styles to prevent students from being bored by content, empowering them to read much more Latin and become familiar with the process.<br />Moreover, the two texts revive the interlinear method of study with interlinear vocabulary, not interlinear translation. The Latin text is spaced fairly far apart, so that selected words have definitions or notes right underneath. Seeing the English under the Latin makes the process of reading much easier--we naturally find subject then verb in English; finding subject and verb in Latin is then just a small step. Whereas interlinear translation can be confusing, often requiring the original Latin word order to be rearranged, Drake's text preserves the original order, instead highlighting selected words. <br />Vocabulary words are generally glossed five times, enlarging vocabulary by repetition. The book also comes with a striped transparency that can cover up the notes and definitions whenever the individual student is ready, giving enough flexibility to ease the tensions in a classroom going through this tough transition. I would highly recommend these books, with their different approach: having notes right underneath the Latin allows students to truly focus on the Latin, sparing them the frustration of having to glance down frequently at footnotes or flipping to the back for glossary. These are great graded readers intended for rapid reading of exciting and humanistic topics written by Latin authors spanning the whole history of Latin literature, from 150BC to the 18th century AD.  This second text completes the first in topics and timeline.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R3RV9DTINVOKPX	0865163413	960062746	Cicero's First Catilinarian Oration, with Introduction, Running Vocabularies and Notes (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Standard text in student-friendly format	Cicero's First Catilinarian is a great read for students just finishing grammar and moving towards translation of Classic works.  Frerichs' edition of this oration makes that transition smooth with this book's numerous aids to students.  <br />The Introduction provides background on Cicero, Catiline's conspiracy, and Latin oratory itself, as well as maps of the Forum and Italy.  Having this information available puts this oration into context, and students will have a better time understanding Cicero's references.  Before the text of the oration, the book also has a glossary of terms and figures of speech, which also prepares students nicely.<br />The Latin text has vocabulary on the facing page, and many notes beneath on grammar, idioms, etc.  A comprehensive glossary in the back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words.  About 60 pages long, students won't complain about having to take this book home!  With a student-friendly format, Frerichs' book is wonderful for any student of Cicero's important oration.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	RDO3LUQTBMGE2	0865164185	454988497	Why Vergil? A Collection of Interpretations (English and French Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Flashlight to the depths of Vergil	This collection of interpretations about Vergil's Aeneid aids the reader in &quot;understanding and appreciation of Vergil as literary artist and philosopher-poet.&quot;  As a standard of Latin literature, the Aeneid is too often taught as an application of grammar, figures of speech, and scansion, skimming the surface over the depths of meaning.  However, this compilation of essays is accessible to anyone interested in Vergil's epic, regardless of whether he or she has studied the original Latin.  The book starts out with a synopsis of all 12 books of the Aeneid and several different translations of the first 11 lines.  Throughout the book, quotations from the Latin are always translated.  <br />   Stephanie Quinn's book gives a glimpse into the depths of meaning, offering varied views of Vergil's work as well as comparisons to other classic epics.  Besides the meaning of the words, some essays deal with such topics as the structure of the poetry itself and the Golden Proportion, encouraging an appreciation for all aspects of the Aeneid.  Others put the epic into context by providing background on religion, tradition, and history.  <br />  &quot;Why Vergil?&quot; brings the Aeneid into a different light for each reader.  The critical essays develop a background of historical and modern interpretations, allowing the reader to form his or her own understanding.  Ultimately, then, the editor stays true to the original question: we choose to study Vergil because everyone finds a different meaning within his work.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R177RBEA5NUFW8	067499583X	133894080	Virgil: Eclogues. Georgics. Aeneid: Books 1-6 (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Student Savior!	As a student preparing for the &quot;AP Latin: Vergil&quot; exam largely on my own, I can say from experience that this book is a great tool for students, regardless of the intensity at which you are studying Vergil.  <br />Unlike the Mandelbaum or Fitzgerald translations, the Loeb is very literal, which helped me to see how the words fit together syntactically.  A page of Latin text faces its translation, and it is easy to look back and forth to understand the translation.  Because there are no vocabulary words or footnotes, the Loeb cannot be used alone by a student first learning Vergil.  However, used in conjunction with the Boyd or Pharr edition of the Aeneid, it is a wonderful help.  <br />   Whether to help with translation or to study for tests, I highly recommend the Loeb.  Because the Latin is on a page by itself with the English translation facing it, students can translate without any help whenever they are ready, making the Loeb a uniquely flexible aid to studying Vergil.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R205UBL1U7PJ0A	0865163812	857442842	Conversational Latin for Oral Proficiency	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Just what students want!	You hear it time and time again, &quot;why are you taking Latin?  That's a dead language!&quot;  And though Latin is the language of the Classics, conjuring up images of ancient poets and orators, John Traupman's book proves that Latin is indeed still living.  Unlike most texts, the chapters in &quot;Conversational Latin&quot; are not arranged in order of difficulty.  Rather, they are organized by topic, and within each chapter the sample conversations progress in difficulty.  This makes it easier for students, because they can look up topics quickly, rather than trying to remember how hard that conversation was.  This also makes it easier for teachers, who can draw from this book wherever a topic coincides with something covered in class.<br />The vocabulary used in this book is not difficult, including some new words that are not usually covered in textbooks.  However, these new words are strangely familiar. . .e.g. &quot;sescentas gratias&quot;--&quot;thanks a million,&quot; or &quot;Patientia, patientia.  Tempus omnia sanat&quot;--&quot;Patience, patience.  Time heals everything.&quot;  Every word has all the accents so that students can pronounce them correctly.  With topics from telling time to gossip about a new girlfriend, &quot;Conversational Latin&quot; is a great addition to any classroom, enriching the study of Latin through speaking and listening interesting conversations.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R3ANJTPEBEGFA2	086516472X	332790690	Cattus Petasatus: The Cat in the Hat in Latin (Latin Edition) (Latin and English Edition)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Appeals to any audience	Having studied Latin throughout high school, I could appreciate the innovation and creativity necessary to translate Dr. Seuss' classic story while still preserving rhyme and meter.  However, my little sister, who has just recently learned to read on such classics as \\"The Cat in the Hat,\\" perhaps enjoyed \\"Cattus Petasatus\\" even more than I did.  Not automatically looking to identify subject and verb, she giggled with delight at the new words that roll off the tongue with the catchy meter and bragged to my parents that she was able to speak Latin!  Because the pictures are the same as the English, she was able to follow the storyline and give expression to the words.<br />   Whether as an introduction to Latin or an amusing twist of the Dr. Seuss classic, \\"Cattus Petasatus\\" is a wonderful variation that will make the reader and audience smile.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	RO2NL14M69PRG	0865164177	308779428	Why Horace?: A Collection of Interpretations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why not Horace?	Everyone is at least vaguely familiar with the poetry of Horace, who coined such phrases as \\"Carpe Diem!\\"--\\"Seize the day!\\" Yet there is a depth to his work when these simple phrases are put into their original context. William Anderson's collection of interpretive essays focuses on Horace's renowned Odes and Satire 1.9, the very selections covered on the \\"AP Latin: Literature\\" exam.<br /> This book would serve well either as a tool for teachers helping students to analyze the poetry, or for anyone who simply wishes to explore the depth of Horace's work. There is no need for familiarity with the original Latin text, as each essay is prefaced by a brief introduction that summarizes the Ode being analyzed. The critical essays deal with not only the themes of the poems, but also the structure of the language that Horace so masterfully manipulates. Both in the unique voice that he brings to the poetry and the topics covered, Horace appeals to a wide range of readers. Even today, his words on love and life bring new insight to these familiar topics. Thus, William Anderson, showcasing all aspects of Horace's artistry, encourages us rather to ask, \\"Why not Horace?\\"	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R1VRWMC8KI542O	0865164207	617568621	Quomodo Invidiosulus Nomine Grinchus Christi Natalem Abrogaverit: How the Grinch Stole Christmas in Latin (Latin Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Classic story of inspiration	Having been read by children of all ages and even made into a movie, the story of the Grinch is a familiar and beloved tale.  The timeless triumph of love and goodwill retains all of its charm in Latin, especially because the authors retain rhyme and meter, even throwing in new wordplay.  <br />The pictures from the original Dr. Seuss book help the reader follow the storyline, and the glossary in the back has every word in the book.  Especially in modern context, the Grinch in Latin appeals to us by giving hope when even a grinch can be won over by sincere faith.  Thus, while this book is wonderful as a gift to those studying Latin or looking to study Latin, it is also perfectly suitable for those who simply want a good story.	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R1CR13NAVYK3S9	0865163154	57884032	Latine Cantemus (Latin Edition) (Latin and English Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fun for the whole group!	This compilation of songs in Latin is a fun addition to any classroom or party. The Latin words work well with the popular tunes, so that the audience would still be able to follow along. Moreover, I can attest to the fact that the singers will immediately feel smart, and perhaps a bit silly, at knowing how to sing in Latin!<br />Most of the songs are popular enough that the tunes are known, but some were unfamiliar to me, and there is only musical notation provided for the Gregorian chants. There is no vocabulary or glossary, so the book is geared more towards enjoying the songs rather than teaching Latin. Also, some songs have more than one version appearing in different chapters, referenced at the bottom of each page.  It is interesting to compare the different versions in Latin, just as songs in English may have slightly different lyrics.<br />\\"Latine Cantemus\\" would be perfect for classroom practice--students might even pick up a few new words from among the 64 new translations. Even if you do not study Latin, though, it is fun to sing together, and even more fun to sing something familiar but new!	2003-07-23
US	43808030	R1BTCR5H56F5FY	0865165521	929016540	Horace Fully Parsed Word by Word: Books I and II of Horace Odes Grammatically Analyzed and Literally Translated (Horace Odes, Books 1 and 2) (Horace Odes, Books 1 and 2)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Tool for Deeper Understanding	Horace was one of the greatest lyric poets of Rome, succeeding Vergil as poet laureate.  His work contains layers of meaning, expressing his own sentiments through different personas.  However, before a class can begin to tap into the wealth of understanding, they must first grasp the translation of his work.<br />  \\"Horace Fully Parsed\\" is a wonderful tool for teachers to help students first untangle the grammatical side of Horace.  With long sentences that often have subject and verb separated by many lines, the literal translation can be extremely difficult.  Teachers new to the rigor and demands of an AP Latin course would especially find this text useful, as it defines each word in Horace's odes, along with its syntax and use.  It is the perfect reference to help students who are struggling to figure out the order of words in Horace's poetry.  The back of the book has literal translations for all of Book I and II of Horace's odes, piecing together the grammatical analysis.<br />   This grammatical analysis of Horace's odes empowers teachers to encourage their students to look beyond the grammatical difficulty of Horace.  While the sentence structure itself reflects the depth of this poetry, only when students look farther into Horace's odes will they begin to appreciate the artistry of Horace's craft.	2003-07-21
US	43808030	R2606KBAJHGB4P	0865165394	901165125	What Color Is It?/Quo Colore Est?: Quo Colore Est? : Latin/English Version 'I Am Reading Latin' Series) (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Spectrum of appeal	Part of the \\"I Am Reading Latin\\" series, this book is perfect for the young reader. The topic of colors is both familiar and accessible to any small child, thus introducing Latin derivatives through enjoyable content. The colors are defined in the front cover in the book, then explored through the various pictures of animals, flowers, and other objects. Most interestingly, though, is that the book encourages young children to learn by doing. The pictures inside the book are just outlines, encouraging the children to fill in the colors themselves. There is a page calling for the kids to color in their favorite color, followed by a spot for a picture using that color. This primary reader introduces young children to the language of the ancients through a familiar topic and enjoyable means of learning. Not only a book about colors, \\"Quo colore est\\" is the perfect coloring book.	2003-07-21
US	43808030	RWN1T5F6F2K19	0865165122	119236166	Excelability in Advanced Latin (A Path to Success on Latin College Entrance and Latin Placement Examinations)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Solution to Student Woes	Having taken two AP Latin exams, I can attest to the difficulty of the first half of the exam, covering grammar and Reading Comprehension.  Often, students do not get much grammar review after progressing to reading actual texts in 3rd year Latin.  Thus, my classmates and I were faced with trying to recall rules and endings from two years ago.  We could write essays on Catullus, Horace, and Virgil, but it was the multiple choice questions that made the test extremely hard.  Moreover, the traditional AP review sources, such as Princeton Review, Barron's, and Cliff's, do not provide an AP Latin Prep book.<br />  Finally, we have \\"Excelability.\\"  The text reviews Latin grammar chapter by chapter, NOT in paragraphs, but in outline form, which makes review much easier.  Each use of a case or mood is illustrated in an example, and \\"Excelability\\" lists even the exceptions to the rule, such as in poetry.  An appendix contains all the charts and rules in condensed form for final review.  Unlike other Latin grammar texts, \\"Excelability\\" is truly a workbook.  The exercises, testing grammar, comprehension, and identification help to prepare students for the exact type of questions on the AP test or other Entrance exam.  The passages in the exercises, though, all come from actual Latin authors, exposing students to a variety of writing styles and topics in the format of the AP test--selected vocabulary words but no other footnotes.<br />  After the first 10 chapters, the text helps students with the second part of reading Latin literature: comprehension and analysis.  There is an entire chapter devoted to figures of speech, with examples from actual works on the AP syllabus and suggestions of what the figures of speech may imply in a work.  The workbook also covers meter and scansion, again describing what authors suggest by using a certain meter.  At the end of the workbook are two final review chapters, simulating the actual test: the first is multiple choice Reading Comprehension, and the second asks typical essay prompts.<br />  My classmates and I would have done much better on the AP Latin exams, had this review workbook been available to us.  The workbook reinforces grammar with exercises and multiple choice questions, but it also strengthens the literary analysis skills necessary to do well on the Free Response section of the AP test.  Most importantly, it gets students accustomed to the format of the test, with all the passages from actual Latin authors.  The collaboration of two high school Latin teachers, one with a Ph.D., leaves out hardly anything of conceivable need to appreciate these authors and their epic themes.rehension, and the second asks typical essay prompts.  <br />   My classmates and I would have done much better on the AP Latin exams, had this review workbook been available to us.  The workbook reinforces grammar with exercises and multiple choice questions, but it also strengthens the literary analysis skills necessary to do well on the Free Response section of the AP test.  Most importantly, it gets students accustomed to the format of the test, with all the passages from actual Latin authors.  The collaboration of two high school Latin teachers, one with a Ph.D., leaves out hardly anything of conceivable need to appreciate these authors and their epic themes.	2003-07-21
US	43808030	R1HW8Y1YMXDF11	0865162751	324432920	Catullus: Student Text	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Dual Appeal Goes Deeper than just AP Prep	I know from personal experience that this Catullus Student Text is an excellent preparation for the \\"A.P. Latin: Literature\\" test, and that students of all types in my class enjoyed using it.  Like most AP texts, each poem is accompanied by vocabulary and grammar notes.  However, the vocabulary notes offer more than just definition; some help to explain Catullus' word choice.  For example, in Poem 1, Catullus appeals to \\"patrona virgo,\\" his patron muse which the note explains is a reference to Homer's invocation of the muse.  The collaboration of two editors, one a Ph.D high-school teacher and the other a Ph.D college professor, creates a student-friendly text that still encourages deeper exploration of the author's work.  Moreover, brief introductions to each poem offer possible interpretations or help set the background for the poem.  The editors make it clear, though, that these are only possibilities, leaving it to the students to come up with their own interpretation, aided by facts and concrete dates.  These introductions also point the reader to other poems, which give more insight on the topic that Catullus is addressing.  Every introduction states the meter of the poem, allowing students to practice scansion on their own.<br />   It is the extra material, though, that truly makes the book superior.  A map shows all the places described in Catullus' poems in relation to each other.  The back of the book provides the metrical pattern for every meter used, the literary implications of each meter, and in which poems they are used.  An Introduction describes not only Catullus' life and writing style, but gives the political background of that time period, placing all the poems in context.  Moreover, the Introduction helps students get a better concept of Catullus' entire work by offering some scholarly arguments as to what order the poems were originally in, and why the editors chose to order them as they are in the text.  <br />   The accompanying Teacher's Manual, available separately, includes the poems in large type without notes, perfect for quick review in class as an overhead or worksheet.  The manual also aids teachers with literal translations of the poems, practice tests, and understanding of the poems.<br />    I highly recommend this AP Catullus text, in part because of the aid it provides for reading the poems, but more because it encourages students to develop their own informed understandings.  The editors offer facts and dates, along with some possible explanations, but it is largely up to the student to explore the meanings of individual poems, as well as their connection with other poems.  The desired result is to point to the significance of Catullus' work as a whole.  Thus, this Catullus text is uniquely well suited for both the student who wishes to excel on the AP exam and the student who simply wishes to explore the beauty and passion in the work of Catullus.	2003-07-21
US	43808030	R25WZ0RNA60U6D	0865164800	836986765	Vergil's Aeneid: Selections from Books 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 12 (Latin Edition)	Books	2	0	15	N	N	New edition spares the frustration!	Boyd's revised edition of Virgil's Aeneid is the essential book to prepare for the AP Latin: Virgil exam or just become familiar with this favorite of all Classicists.  With all the lines on the AP syllabus and no more, Boyd's Aeneid effectively prepares students to be familiar with all the lines that may appear on the test.  Each page has a paragraph of Latin text, with numerous footnotes underneath, offering translation help through grammar and vocabulary hints.  A glossary in back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words.  While Clyde Pharr's edition has similar detail in footnotes and vocabulary, the Pharr text contains ALL of books 1-9 only, meaning that students have to take home a heavier textbook and also purchase a separate text for books 10-12 of the Aeneid.  Thus, Boyd spares students from searching for the passages that will actually be covered: it contains only what is on the syllabus.  It is a great way to study Virgil's classic epic.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	R203AXFS48U596	0865164800	836986765	Vergil's Aeneid: Selections from Books 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 12 (Latin Edition)	Books	2	3	13	N	N	New edition spares the frustration!	Boyd's revised edition of Virgil's Aeneid is the essential book to prepare for the AP Latin: Virgil exam or just become familiar with this favorite of all Classicists.  With all the lines on the AP syllabus and no more, Boyd's Aeneid effectively prepares students to be familiar with all the lines that may appear on the test.  Each page has a paragraph of Latin text, with numerous footnotes underneath, offering translation help through grammar and vocabulary hints.  A glossary in back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words.  While Clyde Pharr's edition has similar detail in footnotes and vocabulary, the Pharr text contains ALL of books 1-9 only, meaning that students have to take home a heavier textbook and also purchase a separate text for books 10-12 of the Aeneid.  Thus, Boyd spares students from searching for the passages that will actually be covered: it contains only what is on the syllabus.  It is a great way to study Virgil's classic epic.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	R1OP9RPKB2J006	0865162891	516896700	Thirty-Eight Latin Stories Designed to Accompany Wheelock's Latin  (Latin Edition)	Books	5	111	111	N	N	Smooth Transition to Reading Latin	The \\"38 Stories\\" in the book, edited to form a progression in difficulty, are an excellent introduction to reading actual Latin authors.  The most frustrating time in a Latin student's course of study may be this transition from memorizing grammatical forms to applying this knowledge in reading Latin.  The stories are fairly short, so that students will not get bored by content, exposing them to many different styles of writing in a shorter period of time.<br />   The passages chosen are also from famous authors' works, giving students a sense of satisfaction that they are now able to read the work of those authors about which they have heard much reference.  Formatted like the more difficult Latin works, with notes and vocabulary facing the page, \\"38 Latin Stories\\" eases students into this style of study, better preparing them for reading works of Cicero, Vergil, Horace, and others.  Moreover, this book does not need to be used in conjunction with Wheelock's Latin.  Personally, I used this text after the study of grammar and before delving into Cicero's Catilinarian orations.  Even just taking selected passages from the 38 stories is an excellent introduction to reading Latin through reinforcement of grammatical concepts.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	RG8IK17WFP34S	0865164800	836986765	Vergil's Aeneid: Selections from Books 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 12 (Latin Edition)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	New edition spares frustration!	Boyd's revised edition of Vergil's Aeneid is the essential book to prepare for the \\"AP Latin: Vergil\\" exam or just become familiar with this favorite. With all the lines on the AP syllabus and no more, Boyd's Aeneid effectively prepares students to be familiar with all the lines that may appear on the test. Each page has a paragraph of Latin text, with numerous footnotes underneath, offering translation help through grammar and vocabulary hints. A folded pull-out glossary in back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words. Everything necessary to translate a passage is listed underneath--a convenient way to study the Aeneid and any other Latin text.<br /> The Introduction puts Vergil's masterpiece in context, with background on Vergil's life, the mythology he drew from, and even the elements of Roman religion referenced. The Grammatical Appendix helps students not only to translate, but also to pronounce the dactylic hexameter as it was meant to be sung. Besides accommodating the aural learners, Boyd's Aeneid also has a map illustrating Aeneas' wanderings for the visual learner.<br /> While Clyde Pharr's edition has been the most esteemed textbook, the Pharr text contains ALL of books 1-6 only, meaning that students have to take home a heavier textbook and also purchase a separate text for books 10-12 of the Aeneid. Thus, Boyd's revision of Pharr makes this edition even better, sparing students from searching for the passages that will actually be covered: it contains only what is on the syllabus. It is the best way to study Vergil's classic epic.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	RENYSMEAWCE6W	0865164800	836986765	Vergil's Aeneid: Selections from Books 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 12 (Latin Edition)	Books	5	5	10	N	N	New edition spares the frustration!	Boyd's revised edition of Virgil's Aeneid is the essential aid to prepare for the AP Latin: Virgil exam.  With all the lines on the AP syllabus and no more, Boyd's Aeneid effectively prepares students to be familiar with all the lines that may appear on the test.  Each page has a paragraph of Latin text, with numerous footnotes underneath, offering translation help through grammar and vocabulary hints.  A glossary in back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words.  While Clyde Pharr's edition has similar detail in footnotes and vocabulary, the Pharr text contains ALL of books 1-9 only, meaning that students have to take home a heavier textbook and also purchase a separate text for books 10-12 of the Aeneid.  Thus, Boyd spares students from searching for the passages that will actually be covered: it contains only what is on the syllabus.  It is a great way to study Virgil's classic epic.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	R2FWTIVJ8UVXSH	0865164169	422980473	Horace: Selected Odes and Satire 1.9 (Latin Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Excellent Comprehensive Approach	Having taken the AP Latin: Literature test with Catullus-Horace, I strongly recommend this book to prepare for the Horace portion of the test.  Even though a page may have twice as many notes as actual text, helping with vocabulary and grammar, the book is a manageable size because it contains only those Odes which may be on the AP test.  The notes themselves are large enough to be seen, unlike many other texts, and they are numbered by corresponding line in the Latin poetry for easy correlation.<br />   With an introduction that describes not only the historical context of the poems, Horace's biography, but also Horace's style of writing, the book ALSO has maps of the places described in the poems--further helping to put the poems in context with the rest of the Ancient world.  Moreover, a preface to each ode describes the underlying themes, which is extremely helpful in preparing for the essay portion of the AP test.  <br />   Of course, besides understanding the context of the poems, students also have to be able to scan the meters of the odes themselves, and the book has a clear and helpful explanation of different meters in the back, listing which poems are written in each meter. <br />   Overall, Ronnie Ancona's edition of Horace's odes and Satire 1.9 is an excellent, comprehensive review for the AP test.  A final symbol of its usefulness can be seen in the reprinting of each poem in the back of the book, only without notes, so that students can be sure that they will be able to scan, translate, and analyze these odes on the AP test without any help.  From Horace's life and style to the themes he writes about, this book covers every aspect of the poetry to help students gain a fuller understanding of this poet laureate of Rome.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	R3LXZMXL4TJ2PT	0865164800	836986765	Vergil's Aeneid: Selections from Books 1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 12 (Latin Edition)	Books	5	3	8	N	N	New edition spares the frustration!	Boyd's revised edition of Virgil's Aeneid is the essential aid to prepare for the AP Latin: Virgil exam.  With all the lines on the AP syllabus and no more, Boyd's Aeneid effectively prepares students to be familiar with all the lines that may appear on the test.  Each page has a paragraph of Latin text, with numerous footnotes underneath, offering translation help through grammar and vocabulary hints.  A glossary in back serves as quick reference to unfamiliar words.  While Clyde Pharr's edition has similar detail in footnotes and vocabulary, the Pharr text contains ALL of books 1-9 only, meaning that students have to take home a heavier textbook and also purchase a separate text for books 10-12 of the Aeneid.  Thus, Boyd spares students from searching for the passages that will actually be covered: it contains only what is on the syllabus.  It is a great way to study Virgil's classic epic.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	R2XGBKSHRIWQ9R	0865160449	897494290	Latin Readings: An Intermediate Rapid Reader (Latin Edition) (Latin and English Edition)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Classic method with a new twist	Gertrude Drake's Latin Readings is truly an \\"Intermediate Rapid Reader.\\"  With a variety of passages ranging in style and content, the text offers a diverse approach to the transition from grammatical forms to actually reading Latin.  The passages cover a wide range of styles to prevent students from being bored by content, empowering them to read much more Latin and become familiar with the process.<br />   Moreover, Latin Readings revives the interlinear method of study with interlinear vocabulary, not interlinear translation.  The Latin text is spaced fairly far apart, so that selected words have definitions or notes right underneath.  Seeing the English under the Latin makes the process of reading much easier--we naturally find subject then verb in English; finding subject and verb in Latin is then just a small step.  Whereas interlinear translation can be confusing, often requiring the original Latin word order to be rearranged, Drake's text preserves the original order, instead highlighting selected words.  <br />   Vocabulary words are generally glossed five times, enlarging vocabulary by repetition.  The book also comes with a striped transparency that can cover up the notes and definitions whenever the individual student is ready, giving enough flexibility to ease the tensions in a classroom going through this tough transition.  I would highly recommend this book, with its different approach: having notes right underneath the Latin allows students to truly focus on the Latin, sparing them the frustration of having to glance down frequently at footnotes or flipping to the back for glossary.  This is a great graded reader intended for rapid reading of exciting and humanistic topics written by Latin authors spanning the whole history of Latin literature, from 150BC to the 18th century AD.	2003-07-16
US	43808030	RYP5EVUOS8XLM	0865164991	701635082	Arbor Alma/the Giving Tree (Latin Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Children's Classic in the True Sense	I was first introduced to Shel Silverstein's \\"The Giving Tree\\" as a young child, and immensely enjoyed the tale of the tree who cared so very much for the little boy.  Just recently, I was given a copy of \\"Arbor Alma\\" - \\"The Giving Tree\\" in Latin.  Seeing the story itself brought back fond memories, but seeing it in Latin gave it a fresh appeal.  Having taken Latin in high school, and also being aided by the user-friendly glossary of terms in the back of the book, I was taken back to the story of the caring tree with new zeal.  This book would be a wonderful way to introduce children to the Latin language, which has so influenced our world today and continues to provide advantages to students in grammar, vocabulary, and understanding.  While still staying clear, the book introduces any reader to the complexities of the Latin language in word order, grammar, etc.  Think of it as a first step towards reading the Classics - the actual Latin of Ancient Roman poets, playwrights, and scholars.  I would highly recommend \\"Arbor Alma\\" to any age group, because it connects a beautiful story with a beautiful language.	2002-09-05
