US	43810724	R7P3NGDGTSJ8V	0520241827	256452931	The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Fascinating early effort by Kawabata; not really about gangs.	The Scarlet Gang of Asakusa was one of Kawabata's earlier works, written after he had already achieved some recognition in Japan with The Izu Dancer, but well before his worldwide breakthrough Snow Country. The novel (now translated into English for the first time ever) takes place in a thriving entertainment district in Tokyo, at a time when Japan was rapidly industrializing, building universities, importing Western technology and making its own, in order to establish itself as a world power. Kawabata's choice of setting was especially well-suited for capturing the spirit of these times, because a place like Asakusa was a perfect illustration of the way the Japanese culture itself was changing: jazz music and flapper dresses became popular, music-halls and vaudeville theatres edged out traditional forms of entertainment, and gender roles were suddenly much less rigid, ambiguity was fashionable, images of ennui-ridden \\"modern boys\\" and provocative, alluringly dangerous \\"modern girls\\" became so iconic that the words designating them (\\"mobo\\" and \\"moga\\") entered everyday vernacular. This novel can be read as a valuable document of this interesting and short-lived period in Japanese history.    Nominally, the story revolves around The Scarlet Gang, one of many youth gangs running around Asakusa at the time. Their exploits are related by a nameless, first-person narrator, whose association with members of the gang gives him an excuse to wander around Asakusa and observe various aspects of life there, in a detached and casual manner. Often, the things he sees are unrelated to each other, and he flits from place to place without lingering anywhere for too long, which makes his account seem more like a set of anecdotes about Asakusa life than like a coherent narrative. In fact, the role in the plot of The Scarlet Gang itself is secondary to these anecdotes. The narrator hints that the gang is involved with criminal activities, but never really explains what those activitiesare, or how the gang profits from them, or even what people are actually in the gang. Only a few members of the gang are encountered in the book, and when they do appear, they're not doing anything gang-related.    It seems that the gang's sole purpose is to give a certain outlaw mystique to its members. Although the ostensible goal of the book may be to create a general portrait of Asakusa life, Kawabata is drawn to deeply introspective, intensely personal stories, as he was in every work he ever wrote. So, when a few distinct plot threads begin to emerge from the book's seemingly formless narrative, they all deal with very specific, individual passions and emotions. The longest of these coalesces around Yumiko, Asakusa slum dweller and prominent member of The Scarlet Gang; her sister, we learn, was seduced and abandoned by a certain man, and eventually Yumiko meets this man, entices him, and takes revenge.    Yumiko is a strange character. She knows the score, talks cynically about prostitutes and gang leaders, like nothing can shock her anymore; her gang affiliation and short haircut serve to establish her as a thoroughly modern girl. Kawabata describes her as possessing a \\"coarse, adult carnality,\\" and her earthy speech implies that she's highly experienced at using it for her own ends. But then, we learn that she's actually a virgin; she simultaneously shuns and yearns for intimacy, and speaks sorrowfully of her inability to feel attraction towards anyone. This sudden image of disturbed purity does not resemble the stereotype of the \\"modern girl\\" at all, but it does greatly resemble all of Kawabata's heroines. Here the author abandons the character of his chosen setting, in favour of one of his own major themes, and in fact, the story only gains power from it.    The other main plot threads also contain haunting depictions of individual turmoil. In one, a pimp known as Left-Handed Hiko acquires and exploits an underage prostitute (a common occurrence in Asakusa, Kawabata implies). However, the way this scenario plays out is anything but common. Although the girl is selling her body, she shows herself to be so inexperienced in worldly matters that she genuinely believes Hiko's smooth-talking and empty promises. Her innocence so astonishes him that he is overcome by intense guilt, then by fear, and finally flees.    Some of the shorter asides are also striking, like the one enumerating the love affairs of a low-level thug named Umekichi; the increasingly sleazy nature of these liaisons is first shocking and then profoundly sad, so much so that there's something unsatisfying about the way the description glibly, quickly tosses them off. Each item on the list of \\"confessions\\" hints at depths of passion that could have filled a novel in their own right, but the narrator moves on after having only skimmed the surface. Still, the countless anecdotes interspersed between the main plot threads serve to give a jaunty, devil-may-care demeanour to the story, and the narrator's flippant voice maintains the vibrant feel that Kawabata perceived in Asakusa life, in spite of the more brooding sections.     The back cover and the foreword claim that this is a modernist book, but that might lead one to expect it to be more difficult than it actually is. For instance, the foreword emphasizes the narrator's self-referential turns of phrase, like how he frequently addresses the \\"dear reader\\" directly. But this practice can be found in Western literature and poetry before the advent of modernism, where it was used for its humour value, much like it is here. The foreword also interprets the episodic nature of the story as evidence of modernism, but, as the foreword itself points out, the book was being serialized in a newspaper even as it was being written; such a style of writing was especially well-suited for such a format. Perhaps the book makes more sense if one views it as a collection of loosely connected short stories, some longer than others, rather than a novel; and in that case, it again has many precedents in the nineteenth century.	2005-08-17
US	43810724	R2BNS3DYBP9TLV	0804815372	781123691	And Then: Natsume Soseki's Novel Sorekara	Books	5	24	25	N	N	"These sunless afternoons I can't find myself."	And Then, a novel by Natsume Soseki, opens with an image of extreme isolation: Daisuke, the protagonist, has woken up, and stares blankly at the ceiling with his hand on his chest, feeling his heart beat. He belongs to a wealthy family, has a cultivated aesthetic taste, is well-read, knows multiple languages, and has graduated from a prestigious university, at a time in Japan's history when universities were so new that the government had to hire Western expatriates to teach in them. It seems that Daisuke could get anything he wanted from life. Surely he was ambitious in his university days; it's difficult to imagine how a talented, educated, proud young man couldn't see himself as headed for greatness. But, by the time the book begins, Daisuke lives in seclusion, without an occupation, continuing to depend upon his rich father. He is about thirty years old.    The novel poses the following question: How could a man who showed all the promise in the world ultimately come to naught?    In his university days, Daisuke had two friends, who also had great plans for the future. But, when the thirty-year-old Daisuke meets them again, he learns that their hopes fell short of their mark. One of them, Hiraoka, sought to forge a brilliant career in Japan's civil service system, but fell into conflict with his superiors, mismanaged the money entrusted to him, and was fired. Daisuke's other friend, Terao, intended to become a world-renowned novelist, but failed to find a sponsor, and found himself having to scrounge, day by day, for one-time deals writing articles for cheap rags, or translating documents from English, in order to survive. Both men are now consumed with the fear of dying in poverty.    Daisuke has a strong sense of dignity, emerging from his refined aesthetic sensibilities. To him, such fear is degrading; his idleness becomes the only way to preserve his clarity of thought. Consequently, his reluctance to enter the \\"world of men\\" is confirmed in his mind, widening the gulf between him and his former friends, who view him as lazy and sheltered. When Daisuke writes to an acquaintance about a certain book he had sent, the acquaintance politely thanks him for the gift, but says, with regret, that he no longer has time to read. Soseki writes, \\"As he put the letter back in the envelope, Daisuke felt keenly the fact that this old friend, with whom he once shared the same inclinations, was now playing a different tune, governed by thoughts and actions that were nearly the precise opposite of those of the past.\\"    Daisuke is adrift without ties to history. Unlike his father, he has no attachment whatsoever to traditional Japanese society; his education has given him the knowledge that the world is too vast to be confined to the boundaries delineated by tradition. Furthermore, Daisuke cannot help but notice that his father is motivated by selfish, ulterior motives as much as by any sense of obligation to tradition. Unlike his friends, however, Daisuke also cannot form a connection to modern society, which views education as a means to advancement in a bureaucratic order. He has no roots anywhere; one might say that he remains standing still at a crossroads after all other passersby have left. When Daisuke considers the occupations that he might be qualified for, were he to look for a job, he concludes that he would be incapable of doing anything other than begging on the street.    Daisuke's peace of mind is dependent on such artificial circumstances that it essentially rests on the head of a pin, where the slightest vibration will send it tumbling down. The more intent he becomes on continuing to be a detached observer, the more difficult it is for him to do so. His family has long given up hope that he will do anything with himself, and is willing to support him for the rest of his life, but demands in return that he get married, and threatens to disown him if he doesn't comply. Daisuke prefers to deliberately take a self-destructive path by categorically rejecting his family's demands and falling in love with Hiraoka's wife Michiyo.    Of all Japanese writers, Soseki, the father of contemporary Japanese literature, is the most inscrutable. His works cannot be called \\"beautiful\\" in the same way Kawabata's works can; \\"precise\\" is a more appropriate adjective. Kawabata's books overflow with beautiful, painfully fragile imagery of nature, glass, fabric, arranging these things in a way that creates a mood of deep melancholy. Soseki, however, is concerned above all with his characters' thoughts, which he faithfully records with painstaking levels of detail. They are not told in interior monologue, or any other such device, but rather conveyed straightforwardly in the third person. The book is absorbed in Daisuke's situation, yet simultaneously detached from it. One may find this style of writing to be pedantic, even artificial, but it enables Soseki to describe emotional truths that are complicated to the point of abstraction.    Soseki's writing is not without flourishes. Until the very end, Daisuke regards his circumstances with a charmingly carefree air, and is witty in conversations with his family, which makes him quite likable. Soseki also uses colours to symbolize his themes. There is a recurring image of white lilies, perhaps representing an ideal of frail beauty that, as it turns out, is impossible to attain, and the novel's ending is painted in bright, fiery red, carrying an air of beautiful, tragic finality, conveyed in sharp, concise language.    And Then is the greatest work by Japan's greatest novelist. Like all of Soseki's works, it moves very slowly. There is no real action in it, and yet, when it ends, one feels that a great upheaval has occurred. This is not a book to read when one is living a peaceful, wholesome life; however, in times of personal crisis, when one is driven to sleepless self-analysis, there is no book more relevant than this one.	2005-03-17
US	43810724	R24OCNQ5WO1R42	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Joyce can teach one how to write.	If you haven't read Ulysses yet, and feel daunted by the wildly different, extremely strident reviews of it, read on and I'll try to explain why this novel is worth your while.    First, a brief summary. Ulysses attempts to capture what life was like in Dublin, Ireland, at the start of the twentieth century. It doesn't do this like a history book, solely in terms of political events and noteworthy individuals; rather, it attempts to convey the nature of the day-to-day lives of ordinary people by following its protagonist, an inoffensive fellow named Leopold Bloom, around the city. (It occasionally switches to following a young man named Stephen Dedalus, whom Bloom meets eventually, but Bloom is the main character.) It describes the things that transpire in the world around Bloom, as well as the thoughts that go on inside his head.     Ulysses contains many disparate literary styles, but none are gratuitous; all are used in the service of the novel's themes. Joyce wanted to show how poetry, history, heroism, romanticism, and indeed all of human civilization, can be found slumbering in each individual, no matter how mundane his life might be. This comes to the fore in chapter 14, in which Bloom goes to a maternity ward to convey his best wishes to a woman in labour. When he arrives, he meets a bunch of drunk medical students who make callous remarks that make him uncomfortable; after some time, the nurse comes in and announces that the woman successfully gave birth, which relieves Bloom's anxiety. In addition to these simple events, the chapter tells the entire history of England. That is, the first paragraph is written in monosyllabic Druidic calls, the second approximates the style of ancient Latin historians, the third glides into early Anglo-Saxon poetry (\\"before born babe bliss had\\"), then it switches to Chaucer and medieval prose, and so on, the style of each paragraph moving a little bit forward in history, until it collapses into a mix of modern slang in the end.    Thus, in numerous prose styles, the chapter recreates the birth and life of the English language itself, without warning the reader that it's doing this. In essence, it shows the history of a whole civilization in an original way. But the important part is, it never stops making sense; the plot and the dialogue keep progressing along with the style. Thus, the birth of a child is shown alongside the birth of the whole English language, indicating that civilization is born anew with every new human being. An ordinary birth is made to look like the culmination of all of English history, thanks entirely to this method of describing it. You don't have to have read Chaucer and Shakespeare and Gibbon to appreciate this chapter; Joyce read them for you, so all you have to do is watch the language change.    This happens all the time throughout the book. For instance, chapter 13 finds Bloom wandering around on a beach, where some teenage girls are hanging out and talking. Without further ado, the book inserts itself into the mind of one of these girls. Her thoughts aren't anything amazing: basically, she just wants to fall in love with a handsome man, be loved in return, and be happy. However, in describing these thoughts, Joyce adopts the style of a dime-store romantic novel of the sort that are marketed to teenage girls: it's rife with sentimental, flowery prose like \\"the summer evening had begun to fold the world in its mysterious embrace.\\" The thing is, this style accurately reflects what folks go through during their teenage years: it's got the same heightened emotion, the same vague yearning, the same feeling one gets when falling in love for the first time, that this has never before happened to anyone else and will never happen again, the same romanticism and idealism. Thus, it's remarkably easy to sympathize with the girl, again solely due to Joyce's technique.    That's probably the biggest reason to read Ulysses: all these styles and epic analogies are founded on a powerful emotional centre. Some folks like to say that this book is a \\"celebration of life,\\" or something to that effect. Well, in my opinion, it's a book about loneliness more than anything else. A large part of the book consists of Bloom's internal monologues, creating the impression that he's constantly hounded by unwelcome thoughts. When he's not running into hostile nationalists or petty gossips, he thinks about his adulterous wife. Then, in chapter 14, he meets Stephen Dedalus, decides to follow him out of the maternity ward and into the red light district, and then brings him home. Bloom, whose own son died eleven days after being born, feels fatherly affection toward Stephen; yet, Bloom and Stephen have nothing to say to each other. They engage in some small talk, but Stephen clearly doesn't take Bloom seriously, and Bloom doesn't really know how to approach Stephen. Then, Stephen, who is the closest thing to a friend that Bloom has met all day, leaves. Bloom goes upstairs and goes to sleep next to his wife; the final chapter is told from his wife's point of view, and it becomes abundantly obvious that her perception of her own husband is often wrong, and always strangely detached, as if he's not close to her at all despite living under the same roof. The style is breathtaking, rhythmic stream-of-consciousness, highlighting the sadness of this emotional distance between the characters.    So, don't feel threatened by the style. Ulysses is very readable; true, each chapter has its own style, but most of the styles are perfectly accessible, and make the plot more engaging. All the \\"difficult\\" parts don't happen until the second half, giving you time to get accustomed to Joyce's idiosyncrasies (he doesn't tell you when he's moving from objective description to internal monologue, but after a while, you can usually tell). Just you try it on.	2004-11-10
US	43810724	RW71ASFZQHIVH	0679761640	476200848	The Makioka Sisters	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Revisiting Tanizaki's greatest novel.	The first time I read The Makioka Sisters, I called it \\"fragile and lovely.\\" Recently, I read it again. It's not really fragile and lovely. Actually, it's very matter-of-fact. The narrative mostly recounts events and the characters' reactions to the events. There isn't much description or imagery, like in Kawabata. Even big events like the Osaka flood are recounted straightforwardly, with precision instead of lyricism.    But the book is very perceptive about its characters. Tanizaki knew everything about the social class of the Makioka family. The book is full of countless trivial little details about their daily habits, mannerisms, styles of dress and conversations. For example, during one of the family's attempts to marry off the third sister Yukiko, the prospective husband is concerned that she seems moody, and the whole family tries to dissuade him in writing and on the phone. Tanizaki perfectly captures the frantic, businesslike quality of the negotiations, simply by describing their arguments at length. He is so perfectly attuned to the routine of a family of this class that, just by describing it, he can recreate a whole period of history. And his extensive knowledge of small details also makes the narrative very lively, and often funny. The book moves slowly, but I found it addictively readable, both the first time and now.    The book is much more than a period piece. It captures the superficiality and transience of a sense of closeness between people. The four Makioka sisters are surely very close to one another. They've been together since they were little, and they get along very well. The three younger sisters live under the same roof until they're all well over thirty. Basically they're each other's closest friends. And yet, the second sister Sachiko has no idea whatsoever about what goes on in her youngest sister Taeko's life. She spends much of the book misinterpreting Taeko's motivations. Taeko also remains friendly towards Sachiko throughout the book, which of course does not in any way prevent her from telling Sachiko nothing of her inner thoughts.    Similarly, Sachiko has a very good husband, by any standard. He's very capable, treats his wife well, agrees to support her sisters even though there's really no good reason why he should do so, and engages in self-sacrifice when the situation calls for it. Sachiko should be very close to him, and their marriage is overall harmonious. But their relations are \\"comfortable\\" more than they are \\"close.\\" Sachiko is closer to her younger sisters than to her husband, and we already know the real value of that.    The oldest sister Tsuruko grows particularly estranged from the others, since she lives separately from them and also has the formal duty of managing the family. Possibly the most touching moment in the book is a tiny episode in which Sachiko visits Tokyo and goes to the Kabuki without inviting Tsuruko to come along. And Yukiko is the most \\"traditional\\" of the sisters, but she's not particularly fragile. Actually, she's the most physically resilient. And in the ending, she rewards her family's efforts in trying to find a match for her by acting grumpy and aloof toward everyone. Tanizaki subtly points out that she comes to be excited by the prospect of marriage, but what makes this observation so amazingly accurate is that she's excited by the prospect itself, not by any individual man.    All this is perhaps the root of the feeling of \\"fragility\\" that I had when I first read the book. It is true that Tanizaki's characters are members of a declining noble family, and that the setting is just before World War II. We know that the Makiokas' comfortable lives will shortly be obliterated, and this is poignant knowledge. But the true \\"decline\\" in the book is not so much one of material wealth or social standing, because Sachiko's husband is still very successful, and Yukiko can still find an attractive match, and hey, their chances of surviving the war are as goodas anyone's. The true \\"decline\\" is in the way the book gradually reveals that its characters are not really all that close to each other. Furthermore, it suggests that this particular decline is not a product of modernity, war, or lack of tradition, but rather that it is simply the natural state of things.	2004-06-07
US	43810724	R3RTXA7L6NHWXN	1592400167	147589724	Doing Our Own Thing: The Degradation of Language and Music and Why We Should, Like, Care	Books	1	50	87	N	N	Rambling indignation masquerading as thoughtful analysis.	(Since I have limited review space, I'll talk only about the part of this book that deals with music. As the title suggests, it's a very important part, and I personally think that the problems with it say a lot about the book as a whole.)<br />McWhorter's main theme, in this part of the book, is that music, as an art form, was greatly trivialized and degraded by the big, bad, evil sixties counterculture. Yet, for some reason, he brings up musical theatre, talks about how some musicals were still somewhat true to the old ideal of music, then suddenly asserts that even the best of them were only &quot;minor&quot; accomplishments. This has no bearing on the evil counterculture or the music that it spawned; if anything, it contradicts McWhorter's point by implying that the decline of music began long before the sixties. McWhorter goes on these digressions all the time, and the more aimless they are, the more he seems to think that they strengthen his main point.<br />Another such digression is McWhorter's idea that post-sixties music is above all driven by the desire of white people to emulate black people. I don't think this says anything about the quality of that music, even if it's true, but McWhorter thinks it's really important. In support of this idea, he gives the following evidence: a) rock stars such as Mick Jagger affect a Southern accent, despite not being from the South, and b) the song &quot;Play That Funky Music, White Boy&quot; implies that a &quot;white boy&quot; is unsuccessful at emulating the &quot;black&quot; concept of being &quot;funky,&quot; and thus fails to attain the ideal of rock music. One might ask why this ideal would be so important in England, the homeland of many classic rock bands, or in Russia, Japan, Finland, or any other country where rock bands exist. McWhorter doesn't, though. Instead, he rambles about songs sung by black slaves in the nineteenth century. The conclusion? The evil sixties counterculture destroyed music!<br />In reality, the evil counterculture's musical ideas had numerous precedents. For instance, the musical aspect of the notion of &quot;doing one's own thing,&quot; which McWhorter ridicules so much in this screed, might be seen as having risen out of the emphasis placed by jazz music on improvisation and &quot;free-form&quot; playing. As for imitating black people, the tiny grain of truth in that claim can be traced back to nineteenth-century European artists' fascination with African art and the self-styled &quot;primitivist&quot; movements that resulted from it. But McWhorter doesn't raise his mighty fist against Coltrane or Picasso; instead, he chooses to present the evil sixties counterculture as some kind of sudden, extreme turning point that single-handedly destroyed music (including jazz). What's funny is that, when jazz was on the rise, it was subjected to these exact same arguments from music critics of the time. Now, it has become an important musical genre, and nowadays one can listen to it in big concert halls as if it were classical music.<br />As for how the evil counterculture destroyed music: according to McWhorter, rock and roll shifted the focus of music from skilled songwriting to &quot;the way one sings.&quot; That is, McWhorter claims that in today's music, an aura of &quot;genuineness&quot; surrounding a singer is more important than the quality of a singer's voice or songwriting. Naturally, he completely ignores the fact that a rock singer's role is by no means just that of singer and musician, but that of actor, storyteller, and commentator as well. This is not a new phenomenon, either: opera singers, for instance, are not only singers but also actors, and since they spend their time onstage singing, they have to &quot;act&quot; with their voices. Why it is so egregious that modern singers place a heavy emphasis on this exact same thing, I'll never know. Additionally, many renowned singers in history, prior to the evil sixties counterculture, wrote none of the songs they sang, and weren't expected to write them. If anything, the rock era brought a new emphasis on singers also being songwriters instead of downplaying it. But that's not all: in support of his dubious thesis, McWhorter claims that Bob Dylan and Tom Waits are well known solely because of this aura of &quot;genuineness&quot; that they have, and not for their songwriting or singing. While it's true that neither Dylan nor Waits has a very good voice, anyone can go to allmusic.com and see that both of them are in fact praised for their songwriting (e.g. &quot;...The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan...firmly established Dylan as an unparalleled songwriter...&quot;), and that Waits's post-1983 albums are all noted for their original musical ideas. Their aura of &quot;genuineness,&quot; in contrast, is discussed very little, meaning that McWhorter has no idea what he's talking about, and fails to honestly talk about the songwriting of either Dylan or Waits.<br />In fact, for a book that's supposed to prove the &quot;decline&quot; of music, this one shows very little familiarity with the music in question. McWhorter has a lot of contempt for rap, for example, but he appears to know of practically no rappers aside from Eminem. I don't know much about rap, either, but that's precisely why I'm not qualified to issue blanket condemnations of it. Also, McWhorter appears to be completely ignorant of electronica, and even his rock knowledge doesn't go beyond a few of rock's most well-known figures. He tends to get things wrong when talking about them, too, like with Dylan and Waits. Nowhere does he approach the level of familiarity with his subject that would be necessary to even begin to analyze it. Of course, one can't really expect an honest, in-depth discussion from a 280-page, sparsely printed pamphlet that claims to demolish modern music, and rhetoric, and literature, and everything else, and neatly pin the blame on the evil sixties counterculture in the process. Asfar as its discussion of music goes, at least, this book delivers only hot air.	2004-02-07
US	43810724	R217Q5VK17VXRO	2070377466	58521149	Reve (Folio (Gallimard)) (French Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Self-delusion.	Le Reve's theme, I think, is how addiction to fantasy and castles of air can sap one's life, to the extent that, if one is sufficiently far gone, one may be better off dying while believing in them than living while having the illusions destroyed. The protagonist of Le Reve has such an obsession with saints and religious imagery that every occurrence of every day, to her, is miraculous, willed by god specifically for her individual benefit. This makes her first love a life or death affair - since, she thinks, said love was heaven-sent and personally ordained by all her favourite saints, an end to the love would not only mean a human crisis, but it would also mean a fatal conflict of faith. To better examine it, Zola projects this mindset onto the prose itself, such that Angelique's revival is made to appear as a miracle. (Most curiously, though, she is only revived when the Bishop says \\"I wish it,\\" and not during any of his supplications to the heavens.) When the book is so permeated with her single-minded fixation (seriously, she never expresses a single thought about _anything else in the world_ in the whole book), her death appears as a mercy killing, as if Zola just had too much pity for her to let her live on to ever see her castles of air come tumbling down.<br />Due to the aforementioned qualities, Angelique is probably the least striking of all of Zola's heroines (and is oddly possessed of the odd combination of pious intentions and a mercenary bent - she says many a time that Felicien's money is an important motivation for her love). Felicien himself is totally insipid, but that is after all perfectly realistic. As a result of that, however, their love doesn't really inspire any reader involvement. Still, the supporting cast - the Bishop and Angelique's foster parents, all torn by a desire for redemption in their own eyes - is all great. No less could be expected from the master. And the conflict, despite the lack of said involvement, is still as tense as can be, the more amazingly given that this tension is pulled out of absolutely nowhere. Indeed, Zola's prose is exquisite, but that's just par for the course when reading his works. This time around, though, it's somewhat muted, and refrains from trying to scale the impossible heights that other works by him ascended. In Les Rougon-Macquart, it's sandwiched right between The Earth and La Bete Humaine, and it's certainly far lighter fare than either of them, making me think that Zola just wanted a brief respite.<br />The book ends with the observation that \\"Everything is but a dream.\\" This is obviously a commentary on Angelique's Ophelia-like fragility, both physical and mental, and it also is very reminiscent of classical Japanese literature. Japanese culture was all the rage in Paris at the time, so Zola may have indeed been reading just that. Le Reve is an appropriately wispy, ethereal little book, though ultimately it's got its feet firmly on the ground. In a way, it's a kind of extension of the themes of The Sin of Father Mouret - as in that book, religion first brings the lovers together, then pulls them apart. Of course, The Sin of Father Mouret unquestionably had by far the more powerful and intense drama, but Le Reve is a worthy book in its own way.	2003-05-11
US	43810724	R44SRU6ZUJO4N	0374413312	52888743	Comet in Moominland (Moomins)	Books	5	55	59	N	N	Well, this is a pleasant surprise!	I didn't expect this to be available in English, for some reason, but rarely have I been happier to be wrong. If you favour the existence of good children's literature, you owe it to yourself to get all the Moomintroll books. Sure, you yourself might not get that much out of them, but if you have children, it is your absolute duty as a parent to give them these books. It's what you give them to read now that will determine whether they grow up to love literature, after all - are you going to let the likes of Animorphs and Goosebumps dictate their future tastes, with their assembly-line banality, hideous nature, and utter lack of any aesthetic qualities whatsoever? I didn't think so.<br />A key aspect of Tove Jansson's world is that there is no conflict in it, as such. There's plenty of danger and risk, as much as the adventurous exploits of the Moomintroll would require, but there are no villains, no good-versus-evil struggle, no battle to save the world that has to be hidden from the grownups for some bizarre reason. Some of the Moomintroll books are more pastoral in nature, featuring the Moomin family just lounging around and talking to each other and various other denizens of the neighbourhood. Others feature struggles, such as this one, but they are struggles of knowledge against blind cosmic forces - Moomintroll is trying to _discover_ and _conquer_ the nature of the comet that threatens his home with destruction. This makes for suspense aplenty, and one may even forget that there are no real antagonists, no one who is willfully malicious. The closest thing to that to be found here is the menacing character of the Groke, who freezes the ground under her feet, but she is viewed with sympathy, as a part of nature as well. Nor is she deliberately malicious; she's cold and frightening by nature.<br />Then there's Jansson's prose and gift of description. Oh my! It's like a gorgeous watercolour. Just read the bit in the beginning where Moomintroll finds the hidden cave, or the part where Sniff and Moomintroll are travelling downriver - there's an air of adventure and beauty to that that seems to have died a lonely death in children's literature sometime in recent history. The setting is a beautiful, undefiled Nordic paradise, where nature rages unfettered and beauty exists in its balance rather than in its placidity. And how about the weird denizens of Moominland themselves - the Hattifnauts, for instance, who can't talk or do anything other than wander from place to place, hauntingly, in vast herds, exhorted by something in their nature that they cannot articulate? What about the philosophizing Hemuls with their respective passions for collecting things and putting them in order? All of these different characters reflect different aspects of human nature. They are emotionally complex, contemplative, given to reflection. Jansson's realistic (the description even says \\"Naturalistic,\\" which isn't that far from the truth) dialogue brings them to vibrant life.<br />Apparently, various corporations have gotten their hands on the rights to Moominland, and are exploiting them for all they're worth. There's a cartoon on this theme in Japan, so I hear. But fortunately, no matter what anyone does, the original books are still right here, in all their lyricism, poetry, wonder, melancholy, and aesthetic perfection.	2003-04-26
US	43810724	R1C37TJDH5QI85	0140441379	8490560	The Nibelungenlied: Prose Translation (Penguin Classics)	Books	2	26	37	N	N	Okay...	I don't mean to disparage Hatto's achievement - translating something this long from ancient German must have been quite a task, and for the most part, he did it admirably. The prose is somewhat stilted, but any English translation of any ancient epic has the same effect. My problem is, actually, with the story itself. Now, this tale is one of the best stories man ever told - you just wouldn't know it from reading Das Nibelungenlied. You see, this happens to be the Bavarian version of the brilliant Scandinavian epic Volsungsaga, and if you want to find out what that story's all about, I urge you to go read the Norse version. The Volsungsaga is timeless - the passions fly to unknowable heights, the gods walk among men, and the actors of the drama burn with an overpowering flame. Much like a Joy Division song, in that regard. But anyway. _That_ was a tale. Gunnar perished in a snake pit and Hyogni had his heart carved out. But here? Whoever wrote this sorry excuse for an adaptation turned the dazzlingly, head-swimmingly tragic and beautiful Valkyrie Brunhild into a goofy airhead, Gudrun into a cold-hearted shrew, Sigurd into an arrogant buffoon, Hyogni into a manipulative and petty politician, Attila into an ineffectual bungler, left out a whole bunch of smashingly great stuff (for some reason utterly beyond my grasp, Sigmund is made to outlive his son, and none of that part of the tale is retained) and added a bunch of characters who really don't matter all that much. I could do without reading pages of praise for Volker, thank you. What is this, anyway? Forget this, go read Volsungsaga, and be blown away.	2003-04-17
US	43810724	R27BGY9WRPPTRZ	076791032X	141760283	The Great Movies	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Truly, the only book about the movies that you must own.	I have discovered countless movies via Ebert's essays. \\"Aguirre, The Wrath of God.\\" \\"Broken Blossoms.\\" \\"The 'Up' Documentaries.\\" \\"Ali: Fear Eats The Soul.\\" \\"Night of the Hunter.\\" \\"Grave of the Fireflies.\\" \\"Woman in the Dunes.\\" \\"The Decalogue.\\" \\"The Grand Illusion.\\" \\"The Passion of Joan of Arc.\\" \\"The Bank Dick.\\" In fact, Ebert's essays are responsible for the bulk of what I know about the cinema. The purpose of libraries, they say, is to preserve what needs preserving - well, this book fulfills that function. In this day and age, everything is available fairly easily, but only if you already know about it and wish to expend a bit of effort finding it. All of these old or obscure films are out there, but oftentimes, you'd never hear of them unless you just deliberately decided to extensively research the cinema, and even then you'd probably miss a bunch. This is the book that tells you about what's out there and the book to make you into a serious lover of cinema. There are not enough good things that I can say about it. <br />My favourite aspect of Ebert's Great Movies essays (which are all available on the Sun-Times website) is that they approach the films not from a film-criticism perspective, but from a simply human one. There is no discussion of sexual symbolism, Jungian psychology, feminist theory or any of the snotty artiness that one might expect from film critics. This may be because Ebert was an English major in college, not a film major - this allows him to ground his reviews in reality while writing them with utter stylistic excellence. In these reviews, it is the human appeal in the films that comes through every time. Oh, sure, occasionally he uses a technique that makes you roll your eyes a bit (the \\"E.T.\\" review comes to mind), but for the most part, it's jolly great reading. Ebert won't tell you everything about the movie; he might not even convey to you why it's great. But it is beyond all doubt that he will infect you with his boundless enthusiasm,and that you will remember his words and see those films at some point, and certainly you won't regret a minute. <br />Ebert also balances out the more obscure films with the well-known mainstays - Citizen Kane, Casablanca, Taxi Driver, and such films all get their place here. Thus, the book keeps a balance between what you know and what you don't, alternately showing you something completely new and telling you something new about something you already know, jumping from country to country and movement to movement. He also recognizes that many kinds of movies can be great - thus, \\"Pinocchio\\" is listed along with \\"Taxi Driver,\\" \\"Greed\\" along with \\"Mr. Hulot's Holiday,\\" the noirs with the comedies, the dramas with the cartoons, the gangster films with the historical epics, the neo-realists with the surrealists, and so on, and so forth. The result is a sweeping, comprehensive portrait of the entirety of cinema. This book explains why the cinema is a fantastic art form, why it is thrilling, exciting and interesting, and why people go to see movies in the first place. Truly, it is the only book about the cinema that you must own.	2003-03-29
US	43810724	R153UJF6MROYAY	0226965325	260852329	Mishima: A Vision of the Void	Books	1	24	34	N	N	Not very good.	This book is of little value to both Mishima fans and novices. The novices will want biographical information, of which Yourcenar gives precious little - sure, all the really important stuff is there, but it's outlined in a very sketchy, couldn't-be-bothered way - and certainly far less than either John Nathan or Henry Scott-Stokes. The fans will want information that isn't available anywhere else, of which there is none whatsoever in this book. So what does Yourcenar talk about? The literature, primarily. That would be good, if not for one thing - Yourcenar is an author herself, and she seems to be out to prove her own literary worth. Thus, the book is made of torturedly \\"sophisticated\\" sentences, bizarre assertions of the nature of \\"those who love life love death the most\\" (not an exact quote, but a very accurate paraphrase), and of course, some namedropping. Yourcenar mentions D'Annunzio, Cocteau, Lautreamont, and others, with very little cause. She also knocks down a few straw men here and there (randomly, in one footnote, she spontaneously accuses nameless people of accusing Mishima of being a snob, and proceeds to prove them wrong), and once proudly proclaims that Mishima was a reader of her own literary work. Bully for her, I guess.<br />The literary analysis really isn't that good, either. Admittedly, a cursory read may have the effect of helping people see why they like or dislike Mishima's writing, even if Yourcenar's own musings on the matter aren't very inspiring, but it really doesn't say anything. Some of the man's works are barely given a mention - the \\"discussions\\" of After the Banquet and The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea take up about a page, combined. Others are given whole chapters, but even then, there is little serious attempt at character analysis - for instance, Ying Chan, the doomed beauty of The Temple of Dawn, is described as \\"careless\\" or \\"thoughtless\\" or something to that effect, with no justification for this whatsoever, and no further attempt is made to understand her. The part dealing with The Decay of the Angel is effective, but only because it makes the reader remember that incredible novel - it is Mishima who is responsible for the effectiveness, and not Yourcenar.<br />So what's Yourcenar's point? Apparently, that Mishima had a special vision of a \\"Buddhist Void\\" unique to him that inscrutably exhorted him to commit suicide. That's about it. To this end, she gives probably a lot more attention than is necessary to some of Mishima's lesser, later political works - but almost none, paradoxically, to his essay Sun and Steel. This is why she glosses over biographical details - because in her opinion, they have little to no bearing on Mishima's life. A few anecdotes, such as the \\"green snake\\" incident, are related with much self-conscious weightiness, as if they held some kind of magical key to Mishima's work. All of these anecdotes are also related by either Nathan or Scott-Stokes in their respective biographies with much less sophomoric interpretations. Yourcenar continues with a rhapsodic summary of the story \\"Patriotism,\\" which has no value to any reader who has read the source material, and only ends up conveying the impression that Yourcenar is far more fond of blood and death than Mishima ever was. She ends with a poetization of Mishima's last day, in which she waxes eloquent and ecstatic on the subject of ritual disembowelment and decapitation. This culminates in the last paragraph of the book, a completely unnecessary and grotesque extended metaphor that says nothing and isn't even worth reading.<br />When the book doesn't make goofy conclusions from its superficial collection of facts, it resorts to just praising Mishima's work. On this there is no argument from me, as I am a big fan of Mishima and agree wholeheartedly with Yourcenar's praise. However, her book contributes nothing new to the exciting field of praise, either. Truth be told, I have a hard time understanding whythis book was even written. At 150 pages, it's barely even a book; it fails as a biography and as literary criticism. Even at its best, it just isn't very good; you'd do much, much better with either of the two primary Mishima biographies.	2003-03-25
US	43810724	RN0P2U89EBA2L	0802131379	670986725	Last Exit to Brooklyn (Evergreen Book)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	It's "good," certainly, but almost unbearable.	Last Exit to Brooklyn, Selby's full-length literary debut, is structured more like a collection of stories than a novel. It consists of several episodes that involve completely different characters, have nothing to do with each other, and are structured pretty much the same way - a brief one-page exposition, followed by a buildup of violence all the way to some kind of unspeakably terrifying crescendo whose onset and cessation resolves absolutely no conflict but merely serves to mercilessly cut off the narrative. The last chapter is a series of short, disconnected vignettes that take place in one apartment complex; though they aren't as frightening, the events depicted in them are so uniformly grotesque as to be even more hopeless, even if they're completely banal. For instance, Selby's Naturalistic depiction of the time-honoured pastime of picking one's nose while gossiping is liable to turn one's stomach inside out. You can imagine, based on this example, that Last Exit to Brooklyn is not the most accessible (or even readable) book ever written.<br />Selby's own voice is not present in the writing; for the most part, the author functions only as a dispassionate chronicler of events that, for the most part, are all completely believable. There are no asides, no motivations, no interpretations - what one sees is very much what one gets, and so one is forced to confront what one sees. It isn't very pretty. However relentless his 1979 masterpiece Requiem for a Dream is, it's much more readable than Last Exit to Brooklyn, mainly because it at least features a \\"Dream\\" of some kind. The hapless characters of Last Exit to Brooklyn, however, have no dreams (unless, like Harry Black's, they're about evisceration). Selby himself once characterized this book as an attempt to describe \\"a world without love,\\" and I think that this appraisal is absolutely accurate. Even the \\"love\\" felt by \\"Georgette\\" in the first big episode of the book (following a brief introduction that serves to establish what kind of world this is) is a grotesque parody of same. There is no human interaction in this book that does not feature some sort of casual brutality - even the striking workers, who are supposed to stand together in solidarity, in fact have no solidarity or togetherness whatsoever. This lack of love extends to every single member of society - the union leaders and the corporate officials are equally corrupt, the homosexual men and heterosexual women equally selfish, the police and the thugs equally violent, the black people and the white people equally isolated, and no one seems to ever sleep well. Sex is not only just another instrument of violence, it's almost always the instrument of choice. And while people who do bad things very often do get their comeuppance (in truly horrible ways - the robber/prostitute is raped to death, the closet homosexual beaten beyond recognition, et cetera), there is no sense of justice served since everyone is guilty.<br />Why read it, then? Well, Selby does harbour compassion towards these so-called human beings, but that's more visible in his later books; here, his own choice to recede into the shadows doesn't really show it. Only in the last chapter is it somewhat visible, when he describes a doddering old widow who wonders why no one seems to smile and who is probably a precursor to Sara Goldfarb in Requiem for a Dream. Still, his silence must not be confused with approval, since not only does he not sneer in the book, but his silence seems due to his being overwhelmed by grief. Another reason is that it, assuming the mantle of Naturalism, claims to depict a kind of truth - people can argue about how true it is, but they owe it to themselves to learn it first. But then again, one might quite legitimately ask if there is any value to a truth that is so grimly non-human. Third, one might want to appreciate this book simply based on the writing, and the writing is powerful indeed, but hardly refined enough to place Selby among the stylistic masters. In the end, what it comes down is this: if outright war between reader and writer is what you like, you'll never find a better book; otherwise, you'll have a hard time getting through it once. Also, in either case I would advise you not to eat before reading it.	2003-03-20
US	43810724	R1ESB636VMHDF1	0714530719	497984302	Waiting Period	Books	1	21	25	N	N	This is the end.	I was critical towards The Willow Tree, Selby's 1998 comeback, but compared to Waiting Period, it reads like Requiem For A Dream. After all, The Willow Tree still not only retained some of Selby's Naturalism, but also magnified the compassion that was always present in his work but was often somewhat difficult to see. And upon having read it, I thought that, its perceived weaknesses aside, perhaps Selby mark II, having spent twenty years in literary silence, would develop this kinder side further, that he hadn't lost the plot but merely changed it. Then I saw a blurb describing Waiting Period, learned that it tells the tale of a deranged veteran whose depression leads him to become a serial murderer, and became somewhat apprehensive, to say the least. Then I actually read the thing. Unfortunately, my fears were confirmed. Waiting Period is by far Selby's worst book. Crime And Punishment it definitely ain't.<br />Selby's style has not changed at all since Last Exit To Brooklyn came out in the sixties. That lack of quotation marks and that abundance of run-on sentences that made Requiem For A Dream seem so feverishly vital are now just motions to go through. Waiting Period's only accomplishment is to dilute it to a stream of broken thought fragments, depriving it of any power it still had. Selby even plagiarizes himself at times - that \\"cops and robbers\\" bit on page 185 is lifted straight from Selby's 1971 novel The Room, word for word, and those depressed rants at the beginning are mighty similar to some of the ones in the aforementioned novel. Except The Room, difficult and often vicious as it was, _never_, _ever_ demanded that the reader approve of its character - on the contrary, it was a portrait of self-abasement of the lowest kind, and made sure to underscore it.<br />Waiting Period, on the other hand, revels in it. Consider the fact that the main narrative - a stream-of-consciousness first-person monologue from the point of view of the main character - is occasionally interrupted with little paragraphs in italics that say things such as this: \\"Wonder upon wonder. The man is not only without fault, he is with virtue. His nobility brightens the night sky. Oh my son, my son, what joy you awaken in me and thus the world.\\" (167) Then, a bit later, we get: \\"You are the aurora borealis of my life.\\" (179) This delusional viciousness could have come from a Chuck Palahniuk novel; in fact, it's what fuels Palahniuk's entire career. It's bitterly ironic, since hacks like Palahniuk have made names for themselves aping, among other things, Selby's own The Room and The Demon. But you know how it goes - the student becomes the teacher, and they both ride home on the kindergarten bus. Or something. It occurred to me that these interludes were meant as some kind of Ironic Attack upon religion - the dedication (\\"To the Inquisition\\"! Oh, how _clever_!) seems to support this - but if so, it lacks any depth whatsoever. Much emphasis is placed on the fact that the murderer only murders those who \\"truly deserve\\" to die. Why - that's exactly like Raskolnikov, except without the whole point!<br />At its worst, the writing is not only derivative, but just plain bad. \\"Feel like any moment now I/ll be so focused on the process that I/ll become a part of it and just flow through the ether and become a part of every atom, every proton and quark and resonate through the Universe...all of it...all, all... ...Oh, what a sublime thought, to float free of the body and mind, just a pulse in space...but it would be _my_ pulse, _my_ awareness, awareness of freedom, free from the vice-like oppression that has crushed me all my life...\\" (36-7) Every quark, eh? Right. I never thought I'd live to see the day when Hubert Selby Jr. would start sounding like a chapter in a self-help booklet, but there it is, right before your eyes. Honestly, I found myself looking at the spine of the book to make sure that this was really written by Selby. I mean, for crying out loud, this is Hubert Selby! This man wrote not one, but two triumphs of Naturalism! This man was one of America's outlaw poets! What happened?<br />I don't recommend Waiting Period to anyone. Go read Selby's Requiem For A Dream. It's emotional, raging, dramatic and powerful, and it has much to say to you. All Waiting Period has to say is that it's over.	2003-02-11
US	43810724	R1MQ6F81KKNH8G	1582340285	24938532	The Willow Tree	Books	2	6	9	N	N	how do we survive it	Selby's first proper novel was Last Exit to Brooklyn, a searing bludgeon of a book that showed that Naturalism was alive and well, and ornerier than ever. It became celebrated in certain circles, incited several obscenity trials, was banned in many places, and generally fought the good fight. His last proper novel was Requiem for a Dream, a lacerating, anguished masterpiece that is liable to haunt one long after one reads it. That was in 1978. A collection of stories entitled Song of the Silent Snow followed; then all was still. Suddenly, twenty years later, Selby reappeared - it turns out that he had been writing The Willow Tree for all that time, and finished it only around 1998. What can a reader expect from this man after twenty years of nothing? A stunning comeback? A return to realistic form? A complete flop? Last Exit to Brooklyn redux, or something new and unprecedented? The result is, actually, a bit of all of those.<br />Confusion abounds, and what this book actually meant to do is not entirely clear. The Kirkus reviewer's supercilious attitude is uncalled for (one great book is more than you'll ever write, dude), but I can understand his frustration. This is the story of a thirteen-year-old black kid from the ghetto, whose girlfriend is killed by a bunch of Hispanic thugs, and who swears undying revenge. He is then found by a little old man who lives underground in a luxurious apartment, and very slowly cured of his hatred. That sounds like a sentimental fantasy, and it is one, but only to a degree. It's actually quite difficult to apply A Christmas Carol analogies, as the Kirkus reviewer does, to a book that features about ten profanities per page. In fact, Selby never altogether forsakes his ultra-realism - the scenes of poverty and desperation are evoked as powerfully as ever, the scenes where Bobby sneaks about the streets are rivetingly suspenseful, and Moishe's recollection of concentration camps is genuinely frightening. Bobby's mother only appearsin a few scenes, but her all-pervasive despair is chillingly real, and the bit where Bobby sends her a letter at Moishe's behest is not only the most effective scene in the book, but one of Selby's most effective scenes ever.<br />But on the other hand, this is certainly no exercise in realism. Consider Moishe's luxurious apartment, which contains a workshop, an exercise room, a Jacuzzi, several fine beds, a refrigerator with a seemingly endless supply of ice cream (with chocolate sauce - Selby is determined that you clearly understand that THERE IS CHOCOLATE SAUCE in this refrigerator, and to that end repeats this fact about a thousand times), and so on. But that, actually, is not as hard to accept as the fact that Moishe apparently can produce all of this out of thin air. The book doesn't show that he has a job, or that he ever had one, and it's never explained whence he procures all the money that he doubtless spends. In addition to this, Moishe's method of raising Bobby seems to be to pamper him in luxury and ask nothing of him; the contrast between this and Bobby's old life is appropriately striking, but only until the reader starts to ask questions about what happens later. Does Moishe send Bobby to school? Does he teach him a trade? Does he even ask him to do anything? No, nowhere in the book.<br />And what of Bobby's revenge itself? Yes, it's for the sake of contrast that Selby had Bobby sneak out under cover of night to pursue his enemies right after the most peaceful scenes with Moishe, but this contrast is so severe as to be unconvincing. Could the thirteen-year-old kid that stared slackjawed at Moishe's tales of wartime terror, genuinely affected by them, then go out to corner some fool and proceed to cut off his ear, then return in his new clothes underground and brag about his \\"righteous\\" victory to the old man? Given all the problems with the premise that I already mentioned, it only seems completely bizarre, and not in the way it was intended to.<br/>I suspect that Selby, after writing so many books filled with sheer hopelessness, decided to write one where the underdog finally wins one for a change. No wonder it took him so long - he clearly was unused to such a strange notion. The sick despair that filled Requiem for a Dream has been blunted to a sort of quiet sadness now, and it's actually somewhat moving to see the compassion that Selby always had for people in full light. But it's undeniable that The Willow Tree is not on the level of some of its predecessors - twenty years' gestation time notwithstanding, the book still seems muddled and unrealized. I'd welcome a kinder and gentler Selby, in theory, hoping that he'd straighten things out to himself by his next book, but from what I've read about Waiting Period, I fear that he might be losing it completely. Read The Willow Tree if you like being confused.	2002-12-26
US	43810724	R2D2TQK90ZHKHG	038533348X	222797251	Cat's Cradle: A Novel	Books	2	9	22	N	N	You could do worse, but you could do so much better.	To be honest, I was left with a strong feeling of distaste after having finished Cat's Cradle. First, there's the book's rather blunt ridicule of science. In Cat's Cradle, science is represented by two characters - Dr. Hoenikker, inventor of the atomic bomb and all-around genius, and a fellow scientist whom the protagonist goes to interview some years after Hoenikker's death. The latter is basically an overbearing pompous ass and veritably invites the reader's contempt, especially given his praise of the former. The former is portrayed as a completely delusional psychopath to whom nothing exists besides research; his complete lack of contact with reality or with anything outside of his laboratory leads to the death of his wife and the severe maladjustment of his children, and aside from the other scientist, the whole town still hates him even years after his death. <br />Hey, Vonnegut, you don't think you're being a bit too hard on scientists there, man? I mean, certainly, given the premise of science being irresponsible, deluded and in many ways blind and repugnant, like Hoenikker, then Vonnegut's \\"parable\\" about \\"over-reliance on science\\" makes perfect sense. But the entire premise is completely intellectually dishonest. There have been, believe it or not, works that have examined the same problem, in the same way of looking at the life of one scientist who is too wrapped up in his work to notice other aspects of life. The film Nine Days Of One Year immediately occurs to me as an example. But that film, though it reached a conclusion similar to Vonnegut's - that, the search for truth aside, one must not forget certain other important things in life - was far more honest about its subjects, acknowledging that they were more than just garish caricatures, and was all the more thought-provoking and powerful as a result. In comparison, Vonnegut's portrayal of science (which, in the book, is always greatly and deliberately praised by the most vacuous and unlikeable characters) is just ham-fisted and crude. Essentially, it proves a point about something that has no basis in reality in the first place.<br />But that flaw, I suppose, would be forgivable. It's not uncommon for artists to oversimplify this issue, and it doesn't mean that the end result can't be good. The real problem I had with Cat's Cradle was the grotesque and very forced \\"comedy.\\" Actually, to be more accurate, it was the way Vonnegut turned _everything_ into grotesque and very forced \\"comedy,\\" and expected me to laugh at it. The prime example of this is that bit where Newt, Hoenikker's midget son, falls in love with a beautiful young circus freak who turns out to be a Russian spy and, moreover, twice as old as Newt. How does that sound to you? To me, it sounds like some gag made on some bad \\"cult comedy entertainment show,\\" and it was genuinely painful to read. Yes, yes, yes, plenty of great literature contains scenes in which characters suffer painful humiliation - but _this_ scene made me feel, very uncomfortably, that Vonnegut _himself_ was actively getting off on inflicting this sort of mean-spirited, artless tripe on his characters. And then there was that bit with Frank Hoenikker, the missing son who suddenly became second-in-command in a small island dictatorship, when he suddenly tells the protagonist where and why he had been secretively running about throughout his youth. Which would've been possible to ignore, if not for the exposition, in which we view him as a talented, creative human being and are told what he _really_ spent his time doing. Why did the author ever bother characterizing him if he was just going to turn it into another hideous caricature with no depth later on? Why am I supposed to laugh at people being abased for no reason? Oh, wait, I get it. It's supposed to prove some kind of facile \\"point\\" about how \\"life is really one big joke!\\" Insightful.<br />I could say more. I could talk about the utterly awful \\"Calypsos,\\" about the way Vonnegut bludgeons the reader with his overwrought message, about that silly religious terminology, and about other things. But that's all secondary. The science fiction element is original, and Vonnegut's an inventive and imaginative author, but this book simply left a bad taste in my mouth.	2002-12-12
US	43810724	R29JAJQTEZ26DN	0140430717	154970587	Waverley (Penguin English Library)	Books	4	89	93	N	N	In this time, a curiousity.	Just about every work of historical fiction ever written owes its existence to Walter Scott and to Waverley, his first novel. At the time, it was a new way to write novels - indeed, combining historical fact with entertainment was a brilliant idea. By creating a fictional character and inserting him into the middle of the 1745 Jacobite Rebellion, Walter Scott was able to bring the culture and traditions of Scotland to life in the most staid bourgeois imagination. As a result, he achieved unprecedented popularity for his time, singlehandedly started a tourist industry in Scotland, and kicked off a new genre of fiction, which was then studiously adopted by countless authors, of whom Dumas and Fenimore Cooper are canonical examples.<br />Sometime in the middle of the nineteenth century, however, Scott's popularity took a nosedive, and has never recovered since. Unfortunately, after all the years and all the imitators, and after this kind of novel turned into an established genre, much of Waverley's charm has been lost, and the book no longer seems particularly impressive. Its length is sure to turn off many, especially given that for all the historical romance, there's relatively little action here. However, what still makes it worth your time is Scott's delightful and quintessentially British humour, which he applies through odd digressions and liberal use of comic anticlimax to alleviate tension. One also can't help but be impressed by his vocabulary; there are many passages in Waverley that are more or less devoid of content, but which are so elaborately constructed as to be a pleasure to read.<br />The story itself is no less worth one's attention than before, as far as its &quot;educational value&quot; goes, but the modern reader will not enjoy wading through the obfuscatory prose. I confess that I had a hard time getting through the first few chapters; after that, though, I got used to it and actually enjoyed the rest of the book. I can't however, claim that it was a particularly mindblowing read. I'm not alone; Scott has often been criticized for being a daft romantic entertainer and not a serious artist. This isn't quite true since he was rather conservative (not romantic); he writes about romantic things, but with a rather tongue-in-cheek approach that isn't visible in the works of, say, Dumas. What is true, however, is that this is primarily a tale of manners, and thus by necessity somewhat stuck in its time. Dumas's colourful, loyal, wine-loving Musketeers can thrill the mind even to this day; Scott's characters seem rather bland in comparison, and it looks like he is doomed to fall even further into disfavour as time passes and readers' frames of reference change even further.<br />I do recommend Waverley, but more for the author than the book - unable to extract any great effect from the latter, I found myself more and more captivated by the former, who lets the reader in on his jokes and invites him to regard the events of the book with the same attitude of respect and fascination lightened by bemused wit. That doesn't make for any life-altering enlightenment, but it is enjoyable.	2002-11-02
US	43810724	R3MEPA84FYF9DL	0679722424	627595660	The Temple of Dawn	Books	5	38	42	N	N	Amazing.........amazing.	Now here's one of those books which one tries to review, but can only come up with disembodied cries and wild gesticulations due to sheer awe when one sits down to do it. I'll admit, I was a bit skeptical when approaching this: Runaway Horses, the second novel in the Sea of Fertility cycle, seemed to me to be a kind of regression after the incredibly beautiful Spring Snow. But now it occurs to me that I very well may have treated it unfairly, since I've read The Temple of Dawn and was blown away all over again. <br />I'll grant you, this is a more difficult read than Spring Snow, which is probably why people don't talk about it as much. Why so? Well, first of all, it's split into parts. The first part isn't very heavy on plot - most of it is comprised of Mishima explaining various aspects of Buddhism. You might not be too keen on this; I wasn't, and frankly I don't think Mishima was either - it's a bit too dry to have been written by someone who was passionate about the subject. If this turns you off, however, I advise you to persevere - the ending will make it more than worth it.<br />Secondly, there's an abrupt shift in focus. The first two books centered around their young protagonists Kiyoaki and Isao; Shigekuni Honda was present in both as a sort of way to link the two, but was often out of the picture. Further, both of those books seemed to paint a broader picture of Japan, if the depictions of court intrigue in Spring Snow and conspiracy organization in Runaway Horses are any indication. Indeed, both of those books reflect just how well Mishima could understand the world when he had a mind to. The Temple of Dawn, however, takes a new course that is then followed all the way to the end of The Sea of Fertility - it takes place almost entirely in Honda's head. Other characters are still present, certainly, but now everything is filtered through his eyes. This explains why you never meet the new incarnation of Kiyoaki, Ying Chan, in person - all you know of her comes from Honda's obsessive thoughts.<br />In taking this course, Mishima has created just about the most poignant portrayal of loneliness and ennui I've ever seen. Reduced to Honda's perspective, the world of the novel becomes much more insular. This really culminates in the last novel (The Decay of the Angel), but it's more than evident here. Here we have Honda, a man whose life has been a brilliant success by all standards, and yet who can't say he has ever lived. Does that sound like a cliche? Well, now that I look over that sentence, it kind of does. But this will be soon forgotten when you read about his lonely dreams and his increasing burning desire to be someone he isn't. And in this light, it's no surprise that his quest for Ying Chan becomes the one and only quest of his life. It could have been no other way - it's one of those brilliant Mishima touches to have made the third incarnation a woman; not the first or the second, mind you, but the third, when Honda is already slipping into old age, which Mishima equated with the loss of one's soul. Only this way could the intense yearning that permeates the pages of this book have been created.<br />The writing itself shows Mishima to be in full mastery of his art. One of the reasons why I found Runaway Horses a bit underwhelming was the lack of the absolutely mindblowingly sensuous descriptions that filled Spring Snow. Well, in The Temple of Dawn, they're back with a vengeance. I won't tell you any of the plot or how this relates to it since I don't want to ruin it for you. I will, however, say that the ending is just about one of the most brilliant things I've ever read. For a time, I was wondering where Mishima was going with these new developments and puzzling over how they could end. And then came the ending. In hindsight, it was the most obvious conclusion ever, and yet, since Mishima is familiar with things such as \\"subtlety,\\" I was taken completely off guard by it. It's quite possibly the apex of thisauthor's literary career, and it took the wind right out of me; when trying to imagine how it was written, I can only envision a fevered Mishima furiously tossing off page after page with a sort of maniacal frantic gleam in his eyes. And to this day, I get the oddest sinking feeling whenever I recall it.<br />Why am I writing this incoherence? If you've started The Sea of Fertility, you'll certainly finish it, and if not, you should be reading Spring Snow. But I implore you not to forget to read The Temple of Dawn. Don't listen to anything anyone else says about it - the truth is that it's another unqualified masterpiece from a man whose career was blessed with them.	2002-10-27
US	43810724	R1IS2U6R8N4NXT	0815410743	95864818	The Life and Death of Yukio Mishima	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Pretty good, I'd say.	The major point of discussion for reviewers of this book and of John Nathan's biography of Mishima seems to be &quot;Which one is better?&quot; Personally, I'd say neither. For those who were somewhat dissatisfied with the way Nathan glossed over certain things (like, oh, The Sea of Fertility), Scott-Stokes' book has a greater volume of information and a more consistent analysis of Mishima's literature. For instance, I don't recall Nathan having even mentioned Ba-ra-kei (which I intend to procure sometime in the future, now that I know of its existence) in passing; Scott-Stokes, on the other hand, includes it in the appropriate section of Mishima's life (there are four: Literature, Drama, Body and Action). Scott-Stokes also has the better analysis of Mishima's plays, with more quotes and a lengthier discussion.<br />However, as a whole I think I liked Nathan's work more. I really did not get why Scott-Stokes included the &quot;dramatization&quot; of the Mishima Incident (as the first scene, no less); it's bewilderingly out of place, though I admit that it does provide a good hook to lead into the rest of the book with. But that's emblematic of a larger problem; Scott-Stokes gives himself much greater license than Nathan did to theorize about Mishima's motivations and inner thoughts, and like all canonical examples of dubious reportage, his theories cite anonymous sources. Nor did I particularly appreciate his cavalier dismissal of a rather large part of Mishima's literature as subpar - in fact, unlike Nathan, he really doesn't even come across as an avid reader of Mishima, which would be fine if not for the fact that he decided to be the man's biographer.<br />If you're interested in Mishima, you're inevitably going to read this, but I recommend reading Nathan's biography first. This will arm you with a good bit of knowledge in advance, and will help you navigate through Scott-Stokes' &quot;original&quot; structure (his book starts with the last day of Mishima's life, then covers his childhood and then branches out into four directions). Scott-Stokes' book, then, will serve as a complement, filling in certain gaps.	2002-10-25
US	43810724	R379MZR4A75E6H	0802130127	177081917	The 120 Days of Sodom and Other Writings	Books	1	43	65	N	N	Well, it exists.	Unwitting readers beware: 120 Days Of Sodom is not really a \\"novel.\\" You can call it a novel, I suppose, because the events depicted in it are fictional. But it does not, for instance, have much of a plot. A bunch of libertines lure a group of innocent youths to a secluded location, proceed to rape and torture them for 120 days, and finally gruesomely kill them. That's it. That's the whole book.    Nor does 120 Days Of Sodom have \\"characters.\\" The people depicted in the book are not people in any way, nor are they really meant to be. The youths are just helpless victims, whose sole purpose is to suffer. But the torturers are also ciphers. They don't just commit evil acts, they have to explain them to the victims (and the readers) in stentorian, painstakingly detailed monologues. Much like \\"people\\" in philosophical treatises, they serve as mouthpieces. They can't do something evil just for the hell of it, it always has to have some kind of complicated intellectual justification. No one talks like this in real life, but again that's not the point.    But the book is not really a \\"philosophical\\" work either. While the libertines are defined solely by their speeches, the focus of the book is still on the acts themselves, which go to great lengths to outdo each other in brutality. It goes without saying that there's nothing \\"erotic\\" about them either.    The book says nothing that Sade hadn't said before, for example in \\"Justine.\\" The content of that book was entirely identical to this one. The libertines were just as long-winded and self-important, the victims just as helpless and faceless, and the book expressed the exact same ideas. 120 Days Of Sodom just increases the gore factor.    The only purpose of this book was to be written. Sade was trying to make a kind of statement here -- that it is possible to imagine such extreme things, and even to record them (and presumably to publish them later). And there were probably some personal issues at work there too, since he wrote it while imprisoned in the Bastille. 120 Days Of Sodom is a sort of performance art -- for some reason people are impressed when they find out that a book like this exists, but not many people want to read it.     Whether that interests you or not is up to you. But this book is not a masterpiece of literature. It's not really even a literary work as such. Nor is it erotic or philosophical. The existence of the book is the statement, not the content of the book.	2002-10-19
US	43810724	R125OSHTES0B35	030680977X	257858329	Mishima: A Biography	Books	4	9	10	N	N	The perfect place to start.	Once you've read a couple of books by Yukio Mishima, it is inevitable that you will be filled with an insatiable desire to learn about the man and try to understand what on earth possessed him to write the way he did. Well, no one knows for sure, but John Nathan has a pretty good idea, and so Mishima: A Biography is the perfect place to start. Be advised that answers don't come easily. Nathan is a Westerner, after all, trying to research a uniquely Japanese and particularly complicated figure, and so some important things will clearly elude him, either lost in some forsaken archive or concealed from him by Mishima's family. However, among Westerners, Nathan is probably the most qualified of all of them to undertake this sort of task - he was a friend of Mishima's for a time, and actually translated some of his works. He doesn't undermine his credibility with gushing praise or half-baked theorizing - for the most part, he does stick to the facts, and the facts do seem to illustrate the conclusions he draws. And what a slew of facts there is! I tore through this book, hungrily devouring episode after episode of the life of an exceptional, charismatic man who, at least for a time, lived life exactly the way he wanted to.<br />However, I wanted to gain insight into the relevance Mishima's works had to his life, and while I gained some, it wasn't as much as I had hoped to gain. Nathan's reluctance to waste his and your time with unsubstantiated notions is admirable, but unfortunately he often neglects Mishima's literature in his biography. This is a shame, since when he does talk about the books, he provides invaluable insight - for example, in an excellent section, he identifies Mishima's novel Kyoko's House as one of his key works, making me howl with rage at the fact that this novel is just about the only one of his key works to stay untranslated (even Mishima's flawed bid for the Nobel Prize, Silk and Insight, has been released in English!). His discussion of Mishima's very early (also untranslated) work is equally useful, and from him I learned of the existence of such works by Mishima as Death of a Man and the critically acclaimed filmed version of \\"Patriotism\\". However, just when it really counts, he stops talking about literature altogether - though he correctly identifies the Sea of Fertility tetralogy as Mishima's masterpiece, he doesn't talk about it at all! There's not even the briefest of plot summaries, just a quick mention that the last volume of the tetralogy was \\"rushed.\\" I found myself pining for Henri Troyat's frighteningly extensive biographies of great writers, with their equal emphasis on both life and works.<br />But there's not much of a market for Mishima biographies in the West, and Nathan's book remains a very good effort. If you're as intrigued by Mishima as I am, I urge you to purchase this book. Just don't expect all your questions to be answered.	2002-10-11
US	43810724	R271UINJR46GNR	1560252480	592035995	Requiem for a Dream: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Greatness.	There's a reason why most reviews for this novel give it five stars, and the ones that don't all give it four - like the aftermath to an explosion, it will stay with you for days. Selby's greatest achievement here is humanizing the unlovable in a setting so frightening that many readers will no doubt question the accuracy of its depiction after they've recovered somewhat from the pounding. True, Harry Goldfarb is never a particularly sympathetic character, but it is possible to understand and even accept him, to some degree, before heroin erases his individuality. This goes for just about all of them; as I read, I knew that I should harbour antipathy towards the disgustingly supercilious pseudo-intellectual Marion, but I couldn't bring myself to. Perhaps &quot;humanizing the unlovable&quot; is a poor way to put it. Here's a more accurate statement: These characters will be too familiar to the reader to just brush away with a simple judgment. _You've met these people._<br />The angle of the plot concerning Harry's mother Sara is unspeakably brutal. We've all heard those exposs on the news about how con artists cheat lonely old people, but chances are those stories always seemed removed and far away, mere abstract evils to be condemned and then forgotten; this one makes itself impossible to write off with the force of a boot to the gut. It's oddly reminiscent of nineteenth-century Naturalism in the way it combines realism with staggeringly powerful drama; one might consider it to be, in a way, the rightful successor to the likes of Emile Zola's L'Assommoir.<br />Selby thrusts you as close to the events as possible and makes you watch; he writes with rage and pathos, but he's not out to exploit your emotions. The book couldn't care less what you think of it; its job is to show you a truth, and once you get onboard that's what it'll do whether you like it or not. Selby's prose is not particularly rich or poetic, certainly not subtle, and his vocabulary is limited by necessity due to the setting; his formless style is used not as a deliberate modernist technique, but as a way to make the book as explosive as possible. A sentence picks you up and carries you with it. This is only right; excessive emphasis on technique and subtlety would, I think, only have kept the story from slamming forward without pause. Once you're done with the book, questions will arise in your head, most notably &quot;Just how much truth is in this, exactly?&quot; This is inevitable when dealing with a book of this nature; it's to Selby's immense credit that these questions don't arise while you're actually reading the book, but only after you're done, washed ashore with ringing in your ears. I don't pretend to be qualified to answer them, but my guess is &quot;A lot.&quot; I also don't pretend to know what you're going to think of Requiem for a Dream, but I am certain that you need to read it. And while you're at it, pick up &quot;Tulsa&quot; by Larry Clark; it's the perfect companion piece.	2002-10-05
US	43810724	R14CNL3RBPBC7R	0679721614	85588534	Ark Sakura	Books	2	4	14	N	N	Don't bother.	In many ways, The Ark Sakura is practically a rewrite of The Box Man, an earlier Abe novel which I greatly disliked. Note just how much from that novel recurs here: there's your mysterious and often antagonistic figure of \\"the pretender,\\" the doctor in The Box Man and the \\"shill\\" in The Ark Sakura; there's his nameless female companion who often acts excessively girlish but who, it is stressed with much pomposity, never reveals her \\"true nature\\"; and there's a bizarre murder mystery which appears out of nowhere, is constantly mentioned, but never is explained. Also instantly recognizable from The Box Man is Abe's infuriating noodling - all those nonsensical metaphors for life with all the subtlety of a plum pudding, described lovingly in the most roundabout style imaginable, in which very many words are expended with very little meaning. The canonical example of this in The Ark Sakura is, without a doubt, the \\"eupcaccia,\\" a legless and completely fictional insect. Abe takes great pains to describe it, with all the grotesque details that will make you wish he'd just stop, and of course, _of course_ finishes with \\"At the risk of sounding pretentious, let me say I believe that the eupcaccia is symbolic of a certain philosophy or way of life.\\" This is predictably referred back to countless times later, with phrases along the lines of \\"If only humanity decided to live more like the eupcaccia!\\" I hate to be the one to say it, but yes, sir, you do sound pretentious, and your metaphor makes no sense.<br />It's not a total loss. For all the similarity to The Box Man, The Ark Sakura is certainly better. It's about twice as long as The Box Man, but reads _very_ quickly; it took me only a few hours. There's only one mercifully short occasion where Abe delves into the incomprehensible nonsense that comprised most of The Box Man. That is to say, this time around he actually remembered to include an actual _story_ along with his philosophical burbling. And the story is by far themost successful part of the novel - the whole idea of the \\"ark\\" is so good that it really deserves a better book to be built around it. The same goes for the twist in the ending. With the exception of the very end, however, for the entire second half of the book Abe is too enamoured of his own cleverness for his own good. Hence we get the thrilling tale of The Broom Brigade (intimidating, is it not?), which is a neofascist militant cult comprised entirely of retired old men who make a living by sweeping the streets. I don't blame you if you're blankly staring at the preceding sentence trying to make sense of it; rest assured, there's none to be made. With the appearance of The Broom Brigade on the scene, the book falls headfirst into a bog of meaninglessness from which it does not emerge until the last two pages. It's vaguely reminiscent of Beckett's Pozzo, except more ridiculous and, in this setting, rather artless; with the way the story \\"develops,\\" the whole backdrop becomes completely irrelevant and an initially promising premise is wasted. Abe's entitled to all the postmodernist irony he can exude, no doubt, but it won't make his books good. I've heard it said that he concentrates on \\"the inner workings of people's minds,\\" but in my view he doesn't concentrate on people at all; he has some vaguely defined notions that he'd like us to pay attention to, and by and large, he only bothers with his characters insofar as he can make them reflect those notions. As a result, he creates neither convincing people nor a convincing philosophy. So, read Woman in the Dunes, a novel deservedly added to the modernist canon, but feel no obligation to explore Abe's other \\"works\\"; you're not missing much.	2002-10-05
US	43810724	R1UK7UU7Q0BBC5	0940512491	895072832	Teenage Lust (Japanese Version)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Loveless.	The lurid title sounds deceptive, but there's really not all that much lust in \\"Teenage Lust,\\" Larry Clark's second classic book of photography. For the most part, it continues in the autobiographical vein of \\"Tulsa,\\" his first work. Many people from \\"Tulsa,\\" including the two principal characters, also appear here. Some of the photographs here were clearly taken at the same time as some of those from \\"Tulsa.\\" For instance, the picture of Roper drawing and aiming a gun across a room is reprised, except now his hand is lowered.    But \\"Teenage Lust\\" is a much more free-form kind of work than \\"Tulsa.\\" It lacks the tight thematic focus of its predecessor, the grainy aesthetic, and the mystique. On the contrary, here Clark seems determined to expose the whole backstory behind the images in both books. There are many more captions, as well as excerpts of newspaper articles about Clark's run-ins with the law, and the book ends with a very long, ranting stream-of-consciousness text telling the story of Clark's entire life. This actually somewhat lessens the dramatic impact of the work, because it gets in the way of the images, keeping them from telling the whole story.    As the book goes on, it draws away from the characters of \\"Tulsa\\" and turns to teenage runaways, photographed by Clark in various cities and hotels. It is here that the book takes on the theme expressed in its title; where \\"Tulsa\\" was dark and frightening, \\"Teenage Lust\\" just has a kind of wistful sadness about it. This part of the book is surprisingly lyrical; even in the most disturbing situations, it seems to suggest that a kind of gentleness is present, as if the characters don't really intend to use or hurt one another, but rather are trying to attain oblivion together.    Many images are brilliant. The one of the three young people under the waterfall is almost light-hearted, perfectly capturing a sense of blissful abandon. There's a stark photograph of a couple in a dark room, bringing out the tangible drabness of their surroundings in contrast to their fleeting pleasure. The cover image might be Clark's most iconic photograph; the girl's face isn't very attractive or interesting or memorable, but the moment imparts it with great fragility, and the photograph is still feverish over twenty years later. The one of the two young men and the girl in the hotel room would have been horrifying, if not for the girl's strangely vacant expression, which turns it into an illustration of the self-destructive, careless intoxication that Clark has always seen in youth.    Ultimately, whatever weaknesses \\"Teenage Lust\\" may have compared to \\"Tulsa,\\" it is an equally powerful document. Unfortunately, while \\"Tulsa\\" has been reprinted in an affordable edition, \\"Teenage Lust\\" has not been, and so your best bet would be looking at auctions or old curiousity shops.	2002-08-19
US	43810724	RRXJBAK5M83LN	0375705074	255999514	Thirst for Love	Books	2	6	11	N	N	Unsatisfying early effort from Mishima.	Thirst For Love was only Mishima's second novel, and it shows. It could probably have been made into something great, but the author was either too hasty to finish it or simply didn't know what to do. Despite its great title, it's somewhat of a disappointment. I figure it was an attempt at writing an anti-romance, some kind of complete inversion of the concept of the love story. Well, it wasn't a success. The first half of the book is mired in scenes that don't go anywhere (such as the grotesque flashback where Etsuko's husband dies - did we really need that? why was it included?), and this makes the developments of the second half a bit of a shock. It seemed rather sudden how Etsuko's mild interest in the gardener Saburo turned into complete obsession. Certain aspects of the book sorely needed more attention from the author - Yakichi's attitude toward Etsuko could have been turned into something involving, but ends up being a mere tangent, a check mark on the laundry list of plot points. Had Mishima further developed the backstory of the family, we might have understood what lay behind the enmity between its various members, but it went almost completely unexplained, and said members end up coming across as spiteful for no reason. On the other hand, there are plot lines that are completely pointless and blatantly fabricated and yet are for some reason drawn out to great length - namely, the utterly inane subplot with the socks Etsuko buys.<br />Admittedly, the bit about the festival conveys the appropriate feeling of frenzy. Also, Mishima does a fine job of showing the dichotomy between the overly sensitive, wounded Etsuko and the utterly uncaring, &quot;light man&quot; Saburo. But these are small parts; the whole just isn't all that good. And let's not even get started on the deliberately &quot;shocking&quot; ending, which goes completely against what little character development Mishima bothered to put in. I got the feeling that he simply didn't know how to end the story, and so took the first way out that occurred to him; it would have been better if he had given it a little more thought. In fact, that can be said of just about everything in this book apart from the title. Feel free to skip it and go straight to the masterpiece The Sound Of Waves.	2002-08-15
US	43810724	R1SUDEIAQZ7I3U	0684818981	378927219	To Have and Have Not	Books	4	42	43	N	N	An excellent book.	To Have And Have Not is too fragmentary to be Hemingway's best novel. It's divided into three episodes, which I think were written at completely different times, so Hemingway's objectives might have changed halfway through. The first episode was meant to stand on its own merits as a short story, but Hemingway liked it so much he came back to it later and added two more. That said, it's certainly a fine novel - gripping, moving and very well-written at every step of the way. It revolves around Harry Morgan, an honest man turned into a smuggler by necessity. In the context of the whole novel, the first episode serves mainly to establish his person and show what sort of man he is - his reluctance to get into illegal activities, his strength, his survival instinct and the cruelty that it sometimes results in, and his human qualities. This reads like a self-contained short story with no real point other than an action-filled scenario. The second and shortest episode is the weakest part of the novel - it's a cross-section of a day in Morgan's life after he already takes up smuggling. It certainly shows the risks he has to take, but doesn't serve to do much other than explain a certain point in the third episode.<br />The third episode, where the real meat of the story is, is the best. It shows the further developments and the conclusion of Morgan's criminal career. It is also where the book's title comes in - here we see the contrast between those who have and those who have not. This comparison makes it easier to understand by contrast just how inevitably Morgan was driven to the life he now leads. Though Hemingway could have treated this issue by simply depicting the rich people as bad and Harry as good, he instead develops the story with tremendous emotional complexity - in a chapter dedicated to the former, Hemingway gets inside the heads of many well-off Americans and shows you their thoughts and fears. You might end up sympathizing with them more than with Harry, even though their glaring weaknesses are relentlessly brought to light. They are shown to be just as much victims of circumstances as Harry Morgan - while this does not exonerate them of their foibles, just like it doesn't exonerate him of his crimes, it makes all of them easier to understand. Nor does Hemingway paint the Marxist rebels that Morgan agrees to transport to Cuba in black and white - some are ruthless mercenaries, but some genuinely seek to make the world better, and others are just there by chance. The tragedy of the book is that all these people, who with a few exceptions really weren't bad sorts, were driven by much more powerful forces against one another, and all ended badly. Here we have Harry Morgan, a strong and intelligent man who really didn't want anything other than to have enough to subsist for him and his family, and he ends up hopelessly alone up against both the law and the lawless. His last monologue, where he ruefully summarizes his life, is one of Hemingway's finest moments.<br />Here I must add, as an afternote, that this book conclusively proves that those people who like to claim that Hemingway's treatment of women is somehow \\"sexist\\" or \\"disrespectful,\\" or that his female characters are \\"stereotypical\\" or \\"weak,\\" have absolutely no idea what they're talking about. Harry Morgan's wife doesn't have a large role in the book, but there is one crucial scene that revolves solely around her. In it, she shows titanical inner strength; she is possibly the strongest character in the novel, stronger than Harry. Yes, her role in life is \\"stereotypical,\\" but that is due to the _realism_ of the story - in those days, in those parts of the world, that was the way things were, and that's that. It is undeniable that Hemingway treats her with great respect, admiration and fairness. Thank you very much.	2002-08-15
US	43810724	R3V6L6VECQF0CK	0765603004	431873560	Silk and Insight (Studies of the Pacific Basin Institute)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Uneven.	I'm not too sure what Mishima was trying to do with this one. Yes, it _is_ the story of a strike, technically speaking...except the strike really doesn't take up that many pages. In fact, it barely takes up any. Society's response to it is outlined sketchily at best, the details of it aren't shown much concern for, and for most of its duration it is located offscreen, out of the writer's focus. The summaries are misleading - the effects of the strike and of unions on Japanese culture are, in fact, never discussed at all. Don't expect a Japanese Germinal here.<br />The novel works much better as a character study of Komazawa Zenjiro, the owner of the company in which the strike occurs. I'm thinking that must have been Mishima's true purpose, seeing as every chapter title starts with Komazawa's name. Komazawa is a man who lives quite firmly in the past, and tries to adapt the ways of the past to this modern world. (This bears more than a slight parallel to Mishima himself.) His quasi-religious faith in those ways is poignant, and though he clearly has the author's sympathies, Mishima has admirably chosen not to whitewash his faults - Komazawa's hypocrisy, his occasional pointless cruelty and his refusal to even try to understand anything not in the scope of the old ways are all highlighted quite clearly.<br />However, a good character study does not a good novel make, and the other characters seem, to put it nicely, &quot;unfinished.&quot; Otsuki, the strike leader, has precious few appearances to put in for such an important role, and his only motive for what he does, according to the author, is an almost childish chagrin at Komazawa's separation of him from his girlfriend. He seems like more of a plot device than a character. More frustrating, though, is the fact that this novel has many potentially fascinating characters that it simply chooses not to develop. Take the ex-geisha Kikuno, for instance, whose motives are never made anything approaching &quot;clear&quot; - does she love Komazawa? What is the source of her admiration of him? Why did she even want to quit being a geisha in the first place? Or what about the ominous intellectual Okano, who is depicted as a Machiavellian scheming sort of man, but is never given (and never gives) any rationalization for his actions? Did he do what he did solely out of mischief? Was he motivated by financial concerns? What about Komazawa's wife Fusae, who seems to have a (similarly unexplained) martyrdom complex? All these are things Mishima could really have taken some time to flesh out.<br />As it is, the novel's an often interesting portrait of a very specific type of person, but that's about it. It could have been more. If you're a fan of Mishima, you are of course going to read this, but if this is your first contact with his work, I doubt it will impress you enough to make you delve into the rest of his oeuvre.	2002-08-14
US	43810724	R2Y6T142UOT200	0375504524	161451712	As I Lay Dying (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	3	36	41	N	N	My mother is a fish.	As I Lay Dying came right on the heels of The Sound And The Fury, and carried that novel's main stylistic technique - the distortion of time and truth by means of the varying, highly subjective viewpoints of completely different narrators - to its logical conclusion. While its predecessor contained a whole section told from the third person, in an attempt to clarify the wild images and impressions roiling in the other sections, As I Lay Dying is told in its entirety in the first person, by fifteen different people, each of whom talks for about four pages at a time. These are people in some way connected to the Bundren family, who got together to take the dead body of their matriarch Addie Bundren to her hometown of Jefferson for burial, in accordance with a longtime wish of hers. Inevitably, chaos ensues, as not one of the family members particularly cares for any of the others, many of them have their own hidden problems eating them from the inside, and there are plenty of things to hamper their progress along the way.<br />Despite all that has been said about Faulkner's \\"difficulty,\\" this is not a difficult novel to read. It's certainly much easier than Benjy's or Quentin's chapters in The Sound And The Fury, and those were still comprehensible (after a bit of effort). You are told at the beginning of each monologue who will be talking, and although the prose gets rather oblique rather often, Faulkner does not resort to that cheap modernist trick of convoluted, excessively complex or just completely invented verbiage. The words are simple; it's what they mean that's complicated. The extreme subjectivity, however, sometimes has an unintended negative effect: the scene where the Bundrens try to get across a swollen river should have been gripping, but comes across as muddled.<br />In order for this novel to have been a complete success, it was necessary to give each narrator a truly unique and distinctive voice. And here is where Faulkner was put to a real test. It's not easy, after all, to write from fifteen wholly unique perspectives. What's surprising is the extent to which he succeeded: you can recognize Anse's hypocrisy, Cash's levelheadedness and sympathy, Cora's superciliousness and Darl's alienation when you see them without having to check the title of the chapter. Dewey Dell's monologues are always more scattered, more impressionistic and more colourful than any others; perhaps Faulkner was making the point that women think in a fundamentally different, more turbulent and more beautiful, way than men. However, he stumbled when creating Vardaman's perspective, which is neither as believable nor as distinct as the others. And many of the less important narrators all sound like watered-down Jason Compsons. In addition, Faulkner occasionally falls into the trap of self-indulgence, most frequently during Darl's existential soliloquies concerning the nature of \\"is\\" and \\"was.\\" These are neither credible nor insightful. Nor is Darl's end particularly convincing; though the events of the book understandably agitate him, what he supposedly does goes against the state of his mind as shown in his chapters.<br />There are some rather fine parts in As I Lay Dying. Darl's last monologue is just plain disturbing. Peabody's rage at Anse perfectly reflects the sentiments of the reader. Dewey Dell's inner dilemma is affecting. The dialogue is very well written. However, it isn't a _great_ novel. It lacks the tempestuous passions flying in The Sound And The Fury. It isn't as consistently compelling as that novel. It also lacks that novel's doomy atmosphere, its proud epic feel, its moments of reflection and its occasional stabbing poignancy. Basically, the stylistic achievement makes it a worthy step forward, but it is not as illuminating, as powerful or as original as its predecessor, and it isn't an unqualified success.	2002-08-11
US	43810724	R1R52KQWFRJR74	0140168117	864319909	Tristessa	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Near greatness.	I have yet to read a perfect Kerouac novel that I can say I unreservedly like. Nonetheless, there is something in his writing that keeps me coming back to book after imperfect book. Maybe it is his ever-present sadness, the all-pervasive melancholy that is there even in his moments of exuberance. Maybe it is the Romanticism at the core of his worldview. Maybe not. In any case, Tristessa is certainly the best of his books I've read thus far, and I've a feeling it is the best of all of them. If so, it means he never did write a perfect novel, but here he came close enough.<br />Tristessa (&quot;sorrow&quot; in Spanish) is Kerouac's shortest book. Out of all the stories he tells, it is perhaps the one which had the most importance to him. It certainly chronicles a very important point - his disillusionment with Buddhism, and the beginning of his final disillusionment with life. Observe how different the first part of the book is from the second - the first is filled with Buddhist mantras and reaffirmations of Buddhist faith, whereas the second mentions Buddhism only tangentially, and then in very bitter tones. (The year that passes in between the two parts is, I believe, the subject of his novel The Dharma Bums.) After that is his disillusionment with his own beat culture, as represented by Mexico City. Recall how joyously Kerouac enters Mexico in On The Road, his infectious sense of wonder and excitement and seeing something so new and so (he then thought) much closer to his heart. Now compare that with the hellish, rainy, junksick Mexico City of Tristessa, which Kerouac avows pure hatred for...but where he stays, only exacerbating his sadness.<br />All this disillusionment comes back to the story of the title character - Tristessa. Kerouac loved her intensely. She loved junk intensely. He stayed with her until he had nowhere else to go. Here I won't say too much, except that this is where Kerouac's most beautiful and touching writing ever comes in. There are sentences here which perfectly encapsulate such love as his, such as this: &quot;She would look awful if she wasnt holy Tristessa--&quot; The conclusion, in which Old Bull Gaines (William Burroughs?) gets her instead of Kerouac, is just about the most understated, knuckle-bitingly bitter episode I've ever read, or could have been if not for one thing, which I shall now explain.<br />I have never been a fan of Kerouac's spontaneous prose, and I think that more often than not it actively damages his gorgeous stories. Even Tristessa often reads like a first draft, probably because it is - Kerouac submitted first drafts straight for publication. The stream-of-consciousness is sometimes effective, but very frequently not, because it allows for utterly incomprehensible diversions. Three examples immediately come to mind:<br />1. &quot;This woman is crying because you take all their money,--what is this? Russia? Mussia? Matamorapussia?&quot; (27) Uh...what?<br />2. &quot;You don't know what in a hell you're doing in this eternity bell rope tower swing to the puppeteer of Magadha, Mara the Tempter, insane, ...And all you eagle and you beagle and you buy--All you bingle you baffle and you lie--You poor motherin bloaks pourin through the juice parade of your Main Street Night you don't know that the Lord has arranged everything in sight.&quot; (42-43) Uh...what?<br />3. &quot;Min n Bill n Mamie n Ike n Maronie Maronie Izzy and Bizzy and Dizzy and Bessy Fall-me-my-closer Martarky and Bee, O god their names, their names, I want their names, Amie n Bill, not Amos n Andy, open the mayor (my father did love them) open the crocus the mokus in the closet (this Freudian sloop of the mind) (O slip slop) (slap) this old guy that's always--Molly!--Fibber M'Gee be jesus and Molly--&quot; (92) Uh..._what_?<br />This sort of impenetrable verbal murk contributes absolutely nothing to either story or mood, and only obscures the very real and very raw emotion underneath. Perhaps a revision or two would not have gone amiss here. Nonetheless, the story, the love, the intensity and the loss all carry this book, and there's so much beautiful writing that I don't have the space to quote it all. If ever you're wondering what the fuss over Kerouac was about, this is the book that will show you.ld not have gone amiss here. Nonetheless, the story, the love, the intensity and the loss all carry this book, and there's so much beautiful writing that I don't have the space to quote it all. If ever you're wondering what the fuss over Kerouac was about, this is the book that will show you.	2002-08-06
US	43810724	R2QR8AJABUTYZA	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Anticlimactic.	Maybe G.G.M. should have given it up after Love in the Time of Cholera. It was a fine novel that attempted to bring together the disparate strands of the man's style into a more accessible form, and present an epic and unforgettable story. Largely, it worked, and became his second best book. But he didn't give up there; instead, he wrote The General in His Labyrinth, a book about the final days of Simon Bolivar. And if you get a sense of deja vu while reading it, you're not alone. Bolivar comes across not as a historic figure, but as another incarnation of Marquez's running archetype - the old, weary politician and fighter. We've been seeing this figure since Marquez's career started. In One Hundred Years of Solitude this was Aureliano Buendia; in Autumn of the Patriarch - a book devoted entirely to this subject - it was the title character; in Love in the Time of Cholera certain aspects of this archetype could be found in Florentino Ariza. Thus, when we meet Marquez' Bolivar, we feel like we've already seen him countless times in other Marquez books. This is only reinforced by the fact that Bolivar is only mentioned a couple of times by name, as if to further distance him from reality. Either Marquez has been writing about Bolivar all his life, or he just made Bolivar fit his own mould when he decided to write about him. Either way, it feels like a retread.<br />Since we've seen the author mine this subject so many times before, The General in His Labyrinth doesn't have much to tell us. It continues the trend of Love in the Time of Cholera by being more accessible than some of his earlier works; in fact, I daresay it's his most accessible book yet. Don't get me wrong, it's still a fine book - Marquez remains a master storyteller, after all, and so it's plenty compelling reading even if it often feels like you've seen what you're reading before. It isn't, however, a creative peak, since it breaks no real new ground; nor is it a good introduction to Marquez, since he has illustrated these same themes more powerfully and memorably in the past.has illustrated these same themes more powerfully and memorably in the past.	2002-07-31
US	43810724	R2EYIPXT4F0BK0	0075536668	161451712	The Sound and The Fury	Books	5	2	3	N	N	One line.	\\"She smelled like trees.\\" The idiot Benjy repeats this in his head persistently, insistently, not really knowing what he's saying. But all of a sudden, you understand. She smelled like trees. Now she doesn't. She's gone. And there isn't even anyone left to miss her, and there's nothing left of her except that vague memory of the time she smelled like trees - a memory locked away and tormenting someone who can't understand, much less explain, anything else but that one fact. She is defined only in the way in which she is not there - in that one way in which she changed, then was gone. This is what loss is.	2002-07-31
US	43810724	R31Z1S8PEQPCG1	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Sad...	This is the novel that inspired countless people to become beatniks. And my question is \\"why?\\" Okay, I liked Sal Paradise (Kerouac's name for himself in this autobiographical novel). He was a melancholy, thoughtful, talented young man, and he had a purpose in life - he was a writer. And even he didn't rise above petty theft and carjacking when he had the chance. And the others are miles below him - Remi Boncoeur was a kleptomaniac buffoon, Ed Dunkel was a follower with nary an individual thought in his head, Stan was blind to everything for the sake of pleasure. And then, of course, there's Dean Moriarty, an utterly charming and utterly mindless individual. I'll grant you, he could be capable of the noblest and most touching acts, as when he drove across America just to see Sal for three days. But that doesn't change the fact that he also could be capable of the basest acts, as when he abandoned Sal in Mexico, _while Sal was sick_. Or the fact that he abandoned woman after woman, _with his children_, without a single thought for any of them. And all these people - Sal, Carlo Marx, Ed, etc. - thought that this thoughtless dilettante and con-man was some sort of prophetic visionary. I don't buy it; I couldn't bring myself to dislike Dean (it's impossible, seeing as he's never actively malicious; just thoughtless), but I was saddened by the big deal that was made of him, by the way people allowed him to take advantage of them, and most of all by his ownself, totally devoid of any self-awareness whatsoever. Sal and Dean are supposed to be buddies, but I'll be damned if Sal says more than twenty lines to Dean in the whole book. Dean does all the talking and none of the listening. Sad...<br />I'll grant you, there's a certain poetic exuberance that runs throughout this book. This occurs while the characters are driving on the titular road. These scenes are a pleasure to read, and are the only ones that really could lead one to aspire to be like Sal and Dean. But then thecharacters stop along the road, and the same ugly sadness as before sets in. Paradise steals bread and cheese. Dean betrays another girl. They smoke .... They dig the hipsters - people with no job, no talent, no future but with a lot of complacency and even pride in their lifestyle. Such a hipster invites Dean to go club someone over the head for purposes of robbery. Dean's reaction is, of course, \\"I dig you, man!\\" They go to Mexico, but all they do there is party at a whorehouse. No one besides Paradise (and maybe Carlo Marx, though he comes across as a pseudo-intellectual stoner here) aspires to anything higher than \\"tea,\\" \\"kicks,\\" and drinking. Is this life \\"poetry\\"? What is the meaning? Where is the beauty? Where is the truth? I found none here. It strikes me as only ugly and futile and sad. Judging from some of Kerouac's soliloquies, he thought the same thing. That is why I liked the book in the end.	2002-07-30
US	43810724	R147AHBIKTVEMG	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	1	99	188	N	N	Huh huh, Beavis, fascism is cool. Yeah Butt Head, huh huh.	Chances are you already know the story. Ole Jack is down in the dumps because his job and life suck and he has to go to support groups for catharsis. Then he meets a fine fellow named Tyler Durden, and they become best friends by beating each other up. Then they start a fight club so other men can come and be cool just like them. If that was the extent of it, I may have actually sort of liked the book. It's kind of a clever idea. Unfortunately, that is where Palahniuk's witticism, humour, cleverness and originality end. For good. There have been genuinely insightful books that study the human inclination to violence. Octave Mirbeau's The Torture Garden is such a book. Fight Club is not such a book.<br />We have a few singularly distasteful scenes involving the manufacture of soap, the cinema, and the fighting in the fight club itself. These may seem gratuitous, but they actually served an important purpose - the purpose of establishing, once and for all, how vile the characters of this book truly are. Not that that is advertant - Palahniuk seems to think you should like them. His Tyler is generally presented as being likeable. After all, he revolted against his role, became \\"nonconformist,\\" and started ranting about materialism and philosophy. He also likes to talk about freeing oneself from society (by fighting in fight clubs). He does that last bit a lot, because Palahniuk thinks it is deep. By the time he starts attracting legions of followers who beat each other up for him, the message is clear - we are supposed to think very highly of him, because he isn't the way society wants him to be and is \\"unique.\\" Even when he has these followers go kill people and commit sundry acts of terrorism.<br />Inexplicably, the irony is lost on most people. Do fans of this book realize that Tyler's \\"philosophy\\" does not free anyone, or make anyone stronger, in the entire book? It turns men into blackshirts and stormtroopers - faceless cultists who are even denied names. It destroys their dignity more than society ever did. But Palahniuk has an intellectual rationalization to explain this away! According to him, this is _the way all men are_ deep down inside, and thus, Tyler is really cool and admirable! Well...gosh. Hey, Chuck, if it's good for men to be faceless drones with no will of their own, why rebel in the first place against this horribly oppressive society of yours?<br />Now, you could say that the book doesn't advocate Tyler's manipulative, narcissistic, destructive worldview. I deny this claim. There is no one in the book who doesn't relish it, even though Jack does stop its spread in the end (in the truly awful ending - more on that in a bit). There is nothing in the book to counteract it. There are no opposing ideas presented. You can come up with a complex thought process that concludes that this is really only an argument _against_ violence, but this conclusion will be based upon nothing that is in, you know, the actual _book_. Because let's make no bones about it - we are meant to like Tyler. I've seen keychains that quote him. All the fans of this book quote Tyler. He's meant to be quoted. He's presented as witty and charming and intelligent and strong and unique, and his megalomaniacal escapades are as well. We are meant to admire him. We even have a particularly contrived and false scene in which Jack forces a man - at gunpoint - to \\"go and follow his dreams,\\" to reinforce the message - that Tyler is good, society is bad. And the particularly ludicrous ending does nothing to dispel this. You see, thinking that it wasn't enough to write such a fine book already, Palahniuk decided to jump on the \\"hey, that reality was merely an illusion! THIS is the real reality! it's different!\\" bandwagon. The result is as gimmicky as you'd think, and more importantly - it serves to \\"reinforce\\" this poisonous hogwash about how all males are really just like Tyler (a conclusion based on the author's thorough study of psychology, no doubt).Everything in this book comes back to the coolness of Tyler - a bully who read the Cliff Notes to Nietzsche and uses them to manipulate people who want someone to tell them that their utter failure in life is not their fault so badly that they're willing to die for it. For that's what Tyler is - Palahniuk's poetization of the talentless, worthless, yet very malicious failure. Read the scene in the cinema and you should see just how shallow and worthless Tyler's \\"rebellion\\" really is. (Ah, picking on families with children because they represent your hated society, Tyler, what a brave rebel you are.) Again, I must reiterate that this, according to Palahniuk, is something we're supposed to admire.<br />I've seen a lot of intelligent, thoughtful and kind human beings talk about this book as if it were some kind of stunning intellectual achievement. This baffles me beyond belief. I would have thought that women would be the first to see through the wall of testosterone that clouds the mediocre vileness of this book, but apparently the opposite is the case. Have our standards gone so low that anyone can come along, bang out an utter hack that says \\"society is bad!\\" in the crassest way possible, and be recognized as some kind of profound thinker?	2002-07-26
US	43810724	R3H762LWDZXYGA	0841914060	177747995	The Royal Game & Other Stories	Books	4	28	30	N	N	What's here is good.	Zweig was the master of melodrama. Every single work of fiction that he wrote falls neatly into that style, and makes no bones about it. However, his melodramas were gut-wrenching, not sappy; profoundly moving, not sentimental; grief-inducing, not tear-jerking; sad, but not manipulative. Furthermore, his stories had the benefit of not being overlong, and they never dragged or repeated themselves, like his novel Beware of Pity tends to do. This collection contains some of his best work - surely the first and the last stories already are worth the price of admission. &quot;The Royal Game&quot; is a harrowing look at a little-known phenomenon known as &quot;chess fever,&quot; an inexplicable but very real affliction, and remains the definitive portrait of same. The last story, &quot;Letter From An Unknown Woman&quot; has to be read to be believed. A Romantic (capital R) story of unrequited, lifelong, hopelessly fixated love, it is as close as Zweig ever came to writing an unadulterated masterpiece. Every word is pure gold. It's one of those things you'll wish you had written - and one that is inexplicably obscure, despite having been made into an American movie in 1948. The other three stories don't quite live up to that standard (and let's face it, few things can), but they're good, &quot;Amok&quot; especially.<br />However, I must question what was going on in the head of whoever put this book together. What was the basis of the stories' selection? And why was it necessary to limit the book to only five of them? What sort of Zweig collection is it that includes &quot;Fear,&quot; but doesn't include &quot;The Invisible Collection,&quot; or &quot;Twenty-Four Hours in the Life of a Woman,&quot; or &quot;The Sunset of One Heart&quot;? Huh? Huh? As long as you've set out with the noble goal of reprinting the wonderful stories of a sadly ignored author, you might as well do a competent job of it. If this book is supposed to fill the role of a Zweig Greatest Hits, it is woefully incomplete. It's sad, since it seems to be the only such collection in print, and since much of what _is_ in it is truly spectacular.	2002-07-26
US	43810724	REZ63KYPTRUSX	1901285006	608102886	The Invisible Collection/Buchmendel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	I don't get it.	The existence of this slim volume baffles me. Alright, it is certainly true that Zweig's stories, many of which are absolutely marvelous, are in dire need of a re-release that would hopefully do something to alleviate their obscurity. Very well; perhaps the editors were operating out of this noble idea. Why, then, did they release only two Zweig stories, out of about twenty? And why did they make those two &quot;Invisible Collection&quot; and &quot;Buchmendel&quot;? Granted, both of them are good; the first is even great, certainly one of the man's best. But why only them? And furthermore, why charge the price of a full-length book for such an obviously sparse selection? I don't get it at all.<br />Bad judgment, certainly. However, it must be noted that neither of these two stories is included in the _other_ incomplete compilation, The Royal Game And Other Stories. Thus, if you liked those (and I don't see how you couldn't have), this book will make a good complement. However, even so, there are _still_ others that are in need of reprint but are included neither here nor there. Argh!	2002-07-26
US	43810724	ROVHY63WRHU57	0375726519	67944039	The Box Man: A Novel	Books	1	19	49	N	N	Completely nonessential.	I think of The Box Man by Kobo Abe and I try to recall one memorable image, or one compelling character, or one trenchant observation, or indeed one particularly inventive or colourful turn of phrase. I can't come up with a single one. It baffles me how someone can write something as memorable, compelling, trenchant, inventive and colourful as Woman in the Dunes, and then write something as devoid of any of these qualities as The Box Man. My only explanation is that this was written by a Kobo Abe from a strange parallel universe where Abe never wrote anything good, and somehow made its way here through a rift in space and time. <br />Upon picking up The Box Man and reading the first page, I naively and laughably thought that this was to be a sort of social commentary or just a story about homeless people. No, that wasn't at all the case. Apparently, unlike a regular homeless person, a \\"box man\\" has some sort of extremely deep philosophy that singles him out as someone who lives on a higher plane of existence. Except after reading the book, I came not a bit closer to understanding what this philosophy is, or to caring about finding out. This was exacerbated by Abe's extremely self-indulgent style, in which no concern is exhibited for time or flow, random unidentified narrators come and go with no warning, pages and pages are occupied with pseudo-intellectual \\"societal observations\\" and uninteresting non sequiturs, and so forth.<br />Keep in mind that such a style doesn't have to be bad. Plenty of authors like to jump around in time and make up their own stylistic rules. Plenty of authors like to wax eloquent about society. Plenty of authors come up with absurd premises and make great works out of them. But there are authors who do this well, and those who do not. The Box Man has laughably been called \\"surreal.\\" But something like, say, Un Chien Andalou, though it also has absolutely no actual narrative structure, is chock full of striking images, which are memorabledespite having nothing to do with reality or even with each other. The Box Man tries to be like that. It tries very, very hard, and it is very self-conscious about it. But it fails, because there is nothing above the norm in it - just a desire to \\"break conventions\\" for the sake of breaking conventions, to break conventions as a substitute for narrative, commentary, characterization, originality, emotion, and any worthwhile thought. Supposedly there is a nominal narrative here (there's something about an unsolved murder in places), and supposedly there's an existential parable here (some people ask themselves and each other some wooden and ham-handed questions about existence), but really, there is nothing even original (to say nothing of \\"masterful\\") about any of this. And don't even get me started on the oh-so-affected \\"photo inserts\\" with their oh-so-affected captions.<br />Woman in the Dunes leaves me spellbound, but The Box Man is an utter waste of time. It's shorter than Woman in the Dunes (178 pages in my edition) but every single line is an excruciating exercise in tedium. And as you read, you'll get the feeling that Abe is deliberately insulting your intelligence by writing such pretentious nonsense when he has shown himself to be capable of masterpieces. Stay far, far away from this \\"novel.\\"	2002-07-14
US	43810724	R1JS8NJIFQMYCP	0802150616	472087960	A Personal Matter	Books	5	10	11	N	N	*thump*	Oh my, but this book is not light reading. Don't let its deceptive slimness fool you - every page is somewhat similar to being smashed in the head with a shovel. After reading Oe's description of Tokyo, you will no longer be afraid of Hell. Were this book converted into a movie, every single set of this movie would be coloured in dark shades of brown, and it would be raining in every single scene. This hellish vision makes the perfect setting for the hellish torment of Bird, the hapless protagonist. It is made all the worse because Bird is truly a man alone - out of all the characters in the entire book, he is the only one who could, under more fortunate circumstances, be capable of love. (Not even Himiko, the true woman of his life, is capable of love, which makes the desperate screaming need for her that Bird has all the more poignant.) The ending, like many have already commented, is indeed very abrupt and seems like an overly glib and easy solution to the painstakingly drawn emotional struggle that almost kills Bird. However, when you think about it, you see that this solution \\"solved\\" nothing - am I to believe that life with a hateful wife, a domineering mother-in-law, a condescending father-in-law and an invalid infant are in any way \\"good\\"? No, in a situation like Bird's there really is no way out. And that is precisely what the book is about - in some situations, there just -isn't- a way out, and the only difference between people when they receive such blows from life lies in how they take them.	2002-07-07
US	43810724	R2WU268GIP8HFG	0394561619	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera	Books	4	3	5	N	N	80th review! Hurrah!	Garcia Marquez had a surefire masterpiece in One Hundred Years of Solitude. Since then, he spent about fifteen years writing, but no book really matched the smashing success of the aforementioned fine novel. Love in the Time of Cholera is on some level a self-conscious attempt to write another world-shattering novel; Marquez adopts the tone of a classic Spanish romantic and writes nothing less than an epic. For an epic is exactly what this is - a crackpot story of an unrequited love so noble, pure, and, well, epic, that it lasts a whole lifetime. And the thing is - it works. It works because Marquez is a master storyteller, and moreover, a man who knows and understands the complexities of life. This may be a story of unrequited love, but it's no forgettable fairy tale. As in One Hundred Years of Solitude, Marquez succeeds in writing a book in which it matters not a whit whether or not the events inside it actually did happen or could happen. The thing is, the way he writes it makes you believe that it could happen, and by virtue of that alone it becomes something that could happen.<br />It's not a perfect book. Marquez takes many of the unique stylistic elements and devices found in One Hundred Years of Solitude and reuses them, presenting them here in more conventional ways. This may sound like Love in the Time of Cholera is more accessible, but it actually isn't; I was not fully drawn into the book until the second half. When I _was_ finally drawn into it, though, I was _really_ drawn into it. Like Marquez's hero Florentino Ariza, I was very much playing for keeps. And I was amazed to find myself caring so much about his characters at that point that I literally could no longer stop reading. And given that, there really isn't much criticism I have about the book. Ideally, I'd give it four and a half stars, but since I don't have that option, I'm rounding it down to four. It is not the indispensable stunner that One Hundred Years of Solitude is, perhaps - if you have the goal of only reading one Marquez book in your whole life, it should still be that one - but it's a fine novel written by a master who has shown himself to still be at the top of his game.	2002-07-02
US	43810724	R13Z5LAE0N7X4T	0375724745	874076537	Naomi	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Four and a half, actually.	A fine novel. The premise may seem simple, but Tanizaki has an excellent ear for dialogue and an engaging style that'll pull you in and make you read the whole book before you know it. Said style is often ironic, witty and amusing, but the author always knows better than to engage in small-minded mockery of any of his characters. The point isn't to get you to hate Naomi, it's to get you to understand and sympathize with the hapless Joji, whose travails are depicted in such droll and realistic detail that one gets the impression that there's something of Tanizaki's own life in here. The photograph of him on the back cover of my edition, at any rate, could have been the spitting image of Joji. Anyway. Even if this isn't my favourite book or even my favourite Japanese book, it's still a great, bittersweet read. You should probably purchase it.	2002-06-17
US	43810724	R3A4UL3UKA9OUO	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	2	2	15	N	N	Eh?	Well. It's a little slip of a book, really. And nothing happens in it. Rather, it does happen, but it isn't stated. Everything important that does happen isn't mentioned or even hinted at, and you're left to form your own picture. All that happens is a bit of dialogue between people. For the most part, the people seem wooden and unrealistic, though as the book goes on this misgiving remains only concerning Sachiko. Her condescending mannerisms start out irritating and only get more so.<br />It's hard to give this book a particularly good score seeing as all of it is locked away beneath the surface. We should all be given huge critical acclaim for writing our own &quot;A Pale View of the Hills&quot; to explain the bits Ishiguro sees fit to provide us. You might like this exercise in minimalism, or you might not, but I personally do not find it awe-inspiring.	2002-06-16
US	43810724	RONDDNPM65MD9	0140144528	861792853	Visions of Gerard: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	How odd.	I'm not quite sure how to react. Yes, if you're reading this you already know that this is a book about Kerouac's older brother who died at age nine, but that doesn't do any kind of job of telling you what the book is like. Kerouac's style is so...odd. At times it is absolutely, maddeningly impenetrable. At others, it's absolutely beautiful. At others, you get the feeling of reading a first draft of who knows what. At others still, you get the feeling of reading a really beautiful poem with breathtaking imagery. And it never feels like artiness for the sake of self-indulgence. One thing is certain, though - there's a deep and undeniable sadness buried within this book, one that leaves quite a mark when one gets to it through all the barriers, language and others. \\"Like a load of rocks dumped from a truck onto a little kitty, the pitiful inescapability of death and the pain of death, and it will happen to the best and all and most beloved of us...\\" (67) I'm not sure what to make of the whole thing, in all honesty. I think I may have to read this book over again in order to go even deeper. In the meantime, you should read it.	2002-06-14
US	43810724	R1SGD9HV796WQ7	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Good, but uneven.	Journey to the End of the Night seems like a mixture of several novels. The first part - the one that concerns the war - echoes Voltaire's Candide, the part concerning Africa resembles Heart of Darkness, and the rest sounds like a bunch of loosely connected diary entries. The best and most cohesive part, say I, is the first, in which Celine skewers patriotism, heroism, nationalism and the like in the most corrosive way imaginable. The rest are iffy. True, there are some outright hilarious parts, but here's the thing: all the humour is told in much the same fashion and involves much the same topics. Thus, after awhile it seems repetitive and ceases to really work. The same goes for Bardamu's nihilism - after awhile, it's just...tiring. Thus, I found the best parts of the book to be the ones where Celine actually treats certain people with kindness. There are very few of these, but you'll know them when you see them. For instance, the conclusion to the chapter about the prostitute Molly is oddly extremely poignant, made all the more so by the oppressive characterizations of the rest of the book. Later, Celine spends a lot of time about one Robinson and his connection to the Henrouille family - an amount of time I found to be entirely disproportionate to the value of this subject. From that point, the book doesn't really pick up. The focus on Robinson, I must say, completely mystified me; he is suddenly presented as Bardamu's constant travelling companion and best friend, even though his status as such is never established anywhere in the book. By contrast, Bardamu's misadventures in America are, with the exceptions of his encounter with his ex-girlfriend Lola and his meeting Molly, largely glossed over. Thus, I can only describe Journey to the End of the Night as &quot;uneven.&quot; You should still probably read it, though.	2002-06-14
US	43810724	R114XMIT1TNJ9T	0679722432	711632233	The Decay of the Angel (Sea of Fertility, Book 4)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The end of literature.	On November 25, 1970, Yukio Mishima went to a Japanese army base. He was accompanied by a number of his young admirers, who called themselves the \\"Shield Society\\" and sought to embody an idealized Japanese martial tradition. Together with these followers, Mishima held the commander hostage and demanded that the soldiers at the base be gathered together. He stepped out onto the balcony and gave a fiery speech in which he encouraged the soldiers to overthrow the government and restore power to the Emperor. The speech was soundly mocked and ridiculed. Mishima returned inside and killed himself in the way prescribed by the samurai code, by slashing open his stomach with a Japanese sword. He was forty-five years old. <br /> <br />That very same morning, Mishima had finished his last novel, The Decay of the Angel. He handed it in to the publisher and only then went to his death. It was the last in a cycle of four novels which Mishima called \\"The Sea of Fertility.\\" <br /> <br />In doing so, Mishima put the finishing touch on the riddle of his life. After his suicide, many people tried to figure out his motive for conceiving and carrying out his failed coup. Naturally, the first thing that occurred to them was to search for the answer in his books. Mishima was a man who had many thoughts and ideas and was never shy about expressing them. Surely his final works should reveal his mind at the end of his life, as a kind of philosophical will. Surely. <br /> <br />What kind of final thoughts might we expect from a man who was called a right-wing extremist, a militant nationalist? Perhaps such a man might use the closing paragraphs of his final novel to make a statement about the glory of Japan, or the honour of the samurai. Or he might rage against the corruption of the government, or a lack of morals among young people. But politics are completely absent from The Decay of the Angel. Not a single page of the book contains so much as a hint of the ideas that Mishima talked aboutin his last speech. It is as if those issues don't even exist. <br /> <br />And now we turn to think about the entire Sea of Fertility. What was the final point of this last work, over 1500 pages long? Mishima repeatedly said that he knew it was his best work. Anyone who reads it can see the meticulous planning that went into the storyline. If Mishima didn't want to talk about the ideals that he supposedly held, what did he want to express? <br /> <br />In the first two books of the tetralogy, Mishima described beautiful young people who were driven by destructive passions to their deaths. One fell in love with a woman, the other was roused by revolutionary ideas. Mishima's biographer John Nathan thinks that this was Mishima's point. He believed in passion for its own sake, and in his view such passion always led to death. For him, politics were just one way to achieve this exalted state. <br /> <br />But doesn't the conclusion undermine this view? The Decay of the Angel contains no such depictions. More than that, Mishima undermines the value of the passion in the previous novels by making the fourth \\"incarnation\\" false. To the eighty-year-old Honda, the previous three characters are gone forever. The final few pages hint that their explosive emotions were without substance. <br /> <br />In the third book, many pages are devoted to an exposition of Buddhist thought. This theme pops up in the first book as well. Of course, Mishima took the whole idea of reincarnation from Buddhism as well. Was Mishima a Buddhist? Did he want to affirm Buddhist doctrines? <br /> <br />But again, the \\"false incarnation\\" seriously undermines that theme. And the end calls into doubt whether the other incarnations ever took place. Thus, where Buddhist mysticism dominated the first half of the third book, here it is completely gone. <br /> <br />The first two books, especially the first one, seem to paint a broad picture of Japanese society in the first half of the twentieth century. DidMishima want to use the Sea of Fertility to chart what he perceived as Japan's moral decline? <br /> <br />But in the last book, society may as well not exist either. Almost all of it takes place in Honda's head. The only other characters are even more marginal and isolated from society than he is. And in retrospect, society gradually disappears throughout the whole tetralogy, and may not even have had much importance to begin with. <br /> <br />Marguerite Yourcenar suggested that Mishima was driven by a \\"vision\\" of a \\"Buddhist void.\\" According to this interpretation, he had to die in order to become one with it. But again, Mishima's final book makes Buddhism look questionable. And the very notion of a \\"void\\" that one can merge with is much more tangible than the ending. Nor does Mishima imply that it is possible to achieve any such union through death. On the contrary, the ending deprives death of value. <br /> <br />Mishima is said to have idealized youth and physical fitness. Clearly Honda's old age was distasteful to him. But the youth of the \\"false incarnation\\" is just as distasteful. And the youth of the characters in the first three books may as well have never been. Even Satoko's brilliant eyes disappear. <br /> <br />What else is left?	2002-06-13
US	43810724	R3EPXJMHWNEJSP	0679722408	534846079	Runaway Horses: The Sea of Fertility, 2	Books	3	18	31	N	N	Most definitely _not_ as good as the first.	Spring Snow, the first novel in the Sea of Fertility cycle, is one of the best books ever written. Not only is it a book that everyone should read, it is a book that everyone should own a hardcover copy of. Runaway Horses, the second novel in the cycle, is nowhere near the level of Spring Snow. Oh, Mishima is still a great writer; his style is impeccable, and his poetic descriptions are still to die for. It's the premise of the book that I'm not too fond of. Succinctly, it's about a nationalist fanatic who hatches a plot to \\"purify\\" Japan of bad influences. It's not as frightening as it sounds, but it is pretty bad. Now, it's not that Mishima necessarily approved of the means his character Isao would adopt in this book, but a _lot_ of praise is lavished upon the \\"purity\\" of Isao's ideals. And this I completely disagreed with. The \\"purity\\" of Isao's ideals boils down to a death wish and a fanatical desire to kill himself in a glamorous fashion. Isao is not acting for the sake of Japan because he does not know Japan - he has lived all his life generally sheltered from the grim reality that he talks about (sheltered, as it turns out, due to the money of the corrupt people that he hates), and he is not at all in contact with the Japanese people. He's in love with an illusion, an ideal out of a book. Mishima doesn't quite present him as an object of worship, but he does make it clear that Isao is to be admired. He even links Isao to Spring Snow by presenting the recurring assertion that Isao is a reincarnation of that novel's protagonist, Kiyoaki. This I greatly resent. Kiyoaki's passion was disturbingly beautiful, the noblest and most selfless that is possible on earth. Isao's passion is just disturbing, period. For instance, Isao is fixed upon the idea of killing one Busuke Kurahara, a rich capitalist who is in his view responsible for all the evils in Japan. But Mishima very conspicuously does not corroborate this view; Kurahara only appears at length in only one scene, and there he hardly comes across as someone deserving of Isao's (or the reader's) vicious hatred. Things like that come up from time to time, and are so obvious that one might think they're deliberately there, that Mishima does not really lend his approval to his character. Bit of a mental puzzle, that one.<br />Those of you who may be expecting the sensuous descriptions from Spring Snow to return in Runaway Horses will be mightily disappointed. There are only a few appearances by _any_ women in this manly book, and most of them are by Isao's friend Makiko. However, these few scattered parts are truly great, truly on the level of Spring Snow. For instance: \\"The woman's face floating in its dark seclusion, no name yet attached to it, had the character of a mysterious, lovely apparition. It was like the scent of the fragrant olive which, as one walks along a path at night, tells of the blossoms before one sees them. . . . Because of her hidden name, because of the agreement not to speak that name, she was transmuted into a marvelous essence, like a moonflower, its supporting vine invisible, floating high up in the darkness.\\" (207) Yes. Oh yes indeed.<br />Of course, any book would seem a bit anemic after Spring Snow. And make no mistake: I do not at all wish that he had written Spring Snow II (since that wouldn't have been at all good) instead of this. But Runaway Horses, or at least a large part of it, leaves me cold, and that's that. It certainly has its good parts - for instance, the thread about Honda's life (remember Honda? he was Kiyoaki's best friend in Spring Snow) and its development was enthralling, and I wished that Mishima had bothered to develop it more instead of gushing with praise for Isao. Even in the end, when Honda plays an important role, he is in fact largely relegated to the background, prominence being given to Isao's speech about his utterly undefined, abstract and impenetrable ideals. I'd also have liked to learn more about Lieutenant Hori,or Isao's mother Mine, or anyone at all other than Isao, really, but that wasn't happening. And Isao does not change; he basically remains the exact same person throughout the book. Keep in mind that Mishima does not necessarily approve of him - there is a _lot_ of ambiguity as to this - but the fact remains that most of the book is spent on Isao. I'm still glad I read Runaway Horses, but it has somewhat tempered my enthusiasm to read the remaining two books of the tetralogy. You should probably read it too, but you won't be likely to come back to it too often.	2002-05-31
US	43810724	R1IFM0Y0OFCA2F	0679722416	109525290	Spring Snow: The Sea of Fertility, 1	Books	5	139	153	N	N	Read at once.	I've only read two Mishima books so far, am reading a third now, and intend to get through 'em all. Alas, I fear that none will be as good as the first one I read - Spring Snow. I really didn't think people could still write like this in the 20th century. I mean, star-crossed, tragic love was an old subject by the time Shakespeare got to it - what made Mishima think he could write something new about it hundreds of years later? But something did, and I'm glad it did. For while there is a [very interesting] historical context to Spring Snow (tell me, what other book paints such a visceral portrait of early 20th century Japan?), the focus is on the love story. And no one writes love stories like Yukio Mishima. Somehow, it manages to avoid the gaping pitfalls of sentimentalism and melodrama, creating instead a world of great beauty and fragility that I was loath to leave when the book drew to its close.<br />If you read a biography of Mishima, you will likely find mountains of speculation concerning his various eccentricities (and that word is putting is nicely, methinks). Some will accuse him of right-wingery, others will rant about his &quot;nationalism,&quot; etc. etc. etc. But I think that none of that applies. He was in no way a political person, just a hopelessly deluded romantic who still believed that romantic ideals had any place in modern society. This he applied to politics as well as to everything else. Spring Snow, fortunately, contains no politics, concentrating instead on romantic ideals as applied to the personal. The result is something that, while being Japanese through and through, is accessible to anyone. This book is worth reading for the marvelously poetic descriptions alone. I shan't say that it will &quot;change your life,&quot; since that's cliche and more often than not utterly wrong, but I daresay that you will have an indelible impression made upon your mind. At first, you may not notice it, but as time passes, you will find that you remember large parts of Spring Snow on countless occasions, and you will find yourself recalling parts of it as examples of great beauty and purity, and reflexively applying them to your own life. And then you will cheer Mishima as quite possibly the last romantic on Earth. That is exactly what happened to me.	2002-05-29
US	43810724	RSS6RT7KDPEU7	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Yes indeed.	I have not read a book as good as One Hundred Years of Solitude in a long while. It's hard to say what, exactly, pulled me in so much. One could make the argument that there are too many characters for the reader to really get inside the head of any one of them, or that none are &quot;three-dimensional,&quot; whatever that means. But I don't think that is at all the case. The accusations of &quot;two-dimensionality&quot; are based on the fact that many of these characters have one action which defines their entire lives, which they follow and live with for the rest of same. I, personally, find that sort of depiction to be extremely true to human nature, as I also find the irrationality of many of these actions to be. At the end of the book, I felt like I understood some of the characters better than the author, and that others I didn't understand at all. I think that this is the reaction most people have, and that it was Marquez's intention that it should be so. (A note: my personal favourites were Colonel Aureliano Buendia and Renata Remedios. You will have yours.)<br />I also found the much-touted &quot;magical realism&quot; to be captivating. It's not the presence of mysticism that is so wonderful; in fact, generally I don't much care for overt &quot;spirituality&quot; in books. The thing is, Marquez has made it so the mystical elements seem perfectly logical and natural, and require no suspension of disbelief. And that, perhaps, is his most defining element; I've seen it in Autumn of the Patriarch as well. Anyway, read this book today and marvel at the irrational enigmatic creatures that are human beings.	2002-05-27
US	43810724	R11HEYUAJHIJGZ	0192822616	246212198	La Bte Humaine (The World's Classics)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Worth the while.	Initially, I gave La Bete Humaine five stars, but after some thought downgraded it to four. It's quite good, and in parts downright spectacular, but in all honesty it doesn't rank on the same level as the monolithic L'Assommoir, Germinal and Nana. The problem lies with the premise. In the three aforementioned novels, the characters were all basically ordinary people. This made it easy to be pulled into their emotional struggles, and made for unspeakably captivating reading because it was so easy to see how _real_ and _human_ they were. I stood behind L'Assommoir's Gervaise all the way, _literally loudly yelling_ as I accompanied her to L'Assommoir's inevitable conclusion.<br />I did not have the same reaction in La Bete Humaine. The protagonist is an \\"ordinary person,\\" except he's afflicted with a mental disorder that makes him want to kill women. And thus, all his character development works to develop that one unfortunate aspect of his personality. I could not get inside his head. I could not see reality in his emotional struggle. To be frank, his moral dilemmas seemed very much invented by Zola, as opposed to taken from life. Admittedly, they were very elaborate inventions and _still_ made for captivating reading - that's why I'm still giving it four stars. Gervaise is a real character. Jacques Lantier is a writer's invention.<br />I would, however, deem it necessary for you to read La Bete Humaine, if only for one scene - the train wreck. That is one of Zola's most powerful scenes ever. It is really quite amazing. As I read, I saw and heard it happen, and I rallied behind the people that courageously stood up to the catastrophe just like I rallied behind Gervaise in L'Assommoir. It needs to be read to be believed. But the rest, I'm not too thrilled with in the end, and I didn't walk away carrying an image of any character from the book in my brain for days like I did after reading L'Assommoir, Germinal and Nana. So four stars it is. La Bete Humaine is a worthy member of the Rougon-Macquart series, and deserving of your time, but falls just short of greatness.	2002-05-08
US	43810724	RVLL0FVECNODE	0898751349	407708132	Through Russia	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Some of the best short stories I have ever read.	Yet another criminally ignored writer. While Chekhov isn't exactly \\"well-known,\\" he's at least widely recognized, and relatively inexpensive editions of some of his works are available from the likes of Penguin Classics. No such luck for Maksim Gorkii, despite his being one of the best authors of all time. This is, in fact, the first time I have seen an English translation of \\"Through Russia.\\" For the intents and purposes of this review, I'll assume that this is the same \\"Through Russia\\" as the one I read - a collection of Gorkii's short stories. Okay, then.<br />Gorkii is perhaps the spiritually strongest human being to ever have lived. His three-part autobiography will reveal that he did not grow up in a very happy family, and that's putting it very lightly. Then, before he even entered his teenage years, he was already \\"among the people,\\" working like the others, and face-to-face with the most grim, banal and disgusting aspects of modern life. But he didn't break under it. Not a chance. Instead of succumbing, he not only managed to maintain his personal honour, grace and dignity, but also sought and fought for something more than the world offered, which he found in the form of books. Surrounded by ignorance and apathy, he nonetheless managed to retain his love of books and of truth - and took it with him to the road. Far from trying to escape life, Gorkii took it on head-to-head, and won. He travelled all over Russia, saw all sorts of people, worked at all kinds of jobs, and saw more in his lifetime than most people ever will, and this book is the result. It is a series of sketches and stories, all of which were directly recorded from his experiences. And what a book it is.<br />Gorkii's books are life. They're not even Naturalistic - Naturalists researched life, but didn't necessarily record it exactly. Gorkii's books _are_ life. What you're reading is what happened. And it's absolutely amazing. There are unbearable amounts of apathy, dirt and indignity in life, but there are the people, few and far between, who redeem all of it, who rise above their surroundings and shine. Gorkii was such a person, and others are present in this book. Perhaps that ultimately life-affirming reassurance, the knowledge that there are people who know the true value of the world, that makes Gorkii's books so powerful, and what made their author capable of beating life.<br />Not all of the stories are overwhelmingly powerful. In the middle, the book drags somewhat, apparently retreading the territory of other Gorkii works such as \\"Okurov Town.\\" But some of these are literally some of the best stories ever written. I can only try to describe them; you'll have to read them. First we have \\"Birth of a Man,\\" which basically summarizes Gorkii's major theme in fifteen pages. More powerful, however, is \\"Woman.\\" I don't think I'll ever be able to forget the title character. But the real force of the book comes in the last three stories. First we have one with an untranslatable title, about an encounter the author has with the utter dregs of society, rejected even by the drunks and the freaks, a story about poverty, humanity, and survival. Then we shift gears completely for the odd, almost surreal story of an encounter with a decrepit old farm and its inhabitants in some desert. (I swear, I -heard- the woman sing...) And last is another desert story, wistful and melancholy with a violent conclusion. Its title character's sort of nonchalant fatalism is also not easy to forget. \\"First I'm here, then I have to leave. At home I have a friend, I leave and he betrays me. When spirits laugh, people cry. That's the way things are...\\"<br />I realize I haven't exactly done a good job of describing what these are about, but it's something one has to experience for themselves. Think nothing of the price and buy this book. I hope to hell that the translation is at least competent.	2002-05-05
US	43810724	RM15ZCHYCNVJY	0449912426	468144554	Three Comrades: A Novel	Books	5	63	63	N	N	Words cannot do it justice.	It is a crime that Remarque is only widely known for All Quiet on the Western Front in America. Not that that's a bad book or anything; it's one of the best books of all time. I like it very much indeed. But the fact is that Remarque never wrote a bad book, and that he wrote a great many books after Western Front. All of them are worth reading. Black Obelisk, A Life for a Life, A Time to Live and a Time to Die, Shadows in Paradise...all of them. But above all, there is Three Comrades, very much my favourite book of all time. Have you read Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises? What about Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby? Those are always the books one names when talking about literature of the Lost Generation. And they're great books too. But why isn't Three Comrades ever mentioned? It is a mystery!<br />Three Comrades takes place in Weimar Germany. We see hints of Hitler's rise to power. They help us picture said rise, even if they don't explain it. But the book isn't about politics - like The Sun Also Rises, it's about genuine people caught trying to find love, grace and dignity in a world increasingly devoid of all three. And they succeed, finding strength in love and friendship. And that's what this book is about - human friendship and human love, the two most important and beautiful aspects of life. The works of Remarque always feature an odd dichotomy - a sort of clash between a Romantic, highly idealized worldview and grim, bland, prosaic reality. It is this that makes his works so great - the promise that it's possible for the former to exist surrounded by the latter, hard though it may be. It is this that also allows Remarque to see the humanity present in any individual, no matter how debased or outcast (witness his attitude towards the prostitutes). It is this that makes Pat and Robert's romance the sweetest and most believable one in any book I've read. It is this, all in all, that made me genuinely sad, not only at the ending, but at having to leave the world andthe people Remarque created. And no higher praise is possible.<br />My words can't do it any justice, so I won't go into further detail; you'll just have to read it. Hey, Mr. Publisher: how about releasing a new edition that's priced a little lower so people will actually want to buy a great book? Is that so much to ask?	2002-05-03
US	43810724	R1HI76QQ6CDUP2	0060955503	253711631	Arthur Rimbaud: Complete Works (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Ah yes...	...Rimbaud. A truly inscrutable character who deliberately threw away his immense artistic talent for the sake of some cheap, petty, trivial, sad, under-handed pie-in-the-sky money-making schemes. \\"A perverse and hateful wretch,\\" he is called, and apparently with good cause, but the best of his poems are nothing of the sort. Obviously, not all of them are great, but that's expected. I mean, he was only writing poetry for five years, and collections of it tend to include _everything_ he ever wrote - so it shouldn't be a surprise that there are some bad ones included. But the good ones really are amazing. The best ones come from the section entitled \\"Illuminations\\" - my favorites are \\"Ordinary Nocturne\\" and \\"Being Beauteous.\\" Now, I realize that it's pretty much pointless to try to review poetry; one must read it to form an opinion on it, listening to people talk about it is not enough. So I won't go into any detail. I will, however, post this here quote from the end of \\"Being Beauteous\\":<br />\\"O ash-white face! O tousled hair! O crystal arms!<BR>On this cannon I mean to destroy myself <BR>in a swirling of trees and soft air!\\"<br />Yeah.	2002-03-28
US	43810724	R2AE3J39XWJD5N	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Infinitely interesting.	Anyone who enjoys twentieth-century Western literature will dig A Moveable Feast. It's simply inevitable. Hemingway knew and hung out with pretty much all the major American literary players of the early twentieth century - James Joyce, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Ezra Pound. It gives some background behind all those books you've read, and it gives real human faces to their authors (as opposed to just entries in encyclopedias). And there's something infinitely cool about the fact that at some point, all of these people were poor, struggling to get by, destined to become great, and all knew and talked to each other. They're all brought to life on these pages by Hemingway's infectious enthusiasm, making this autobiography as good as any novel. <br />In a sense, this book is the effective culmination of where the author had been going towards the end. In his later books, such as Across the River and Into the Trees (also very highly recommended by me), Hemingway showed a sort of quiet, elegiac nostalgia for the past. His characters increasingly lived in the past, reliving old memories until the line between past and present became blurred in their minds. (Recall how Santiago kept reminiscing about his youth, or how Richard Cantwell kept coming back to his wars.) Well, that's most likely because Hemingway himself was longing for the days when &quot;we were very poor and very happy.&quot; Now he finally stops masking his feelings by putting them into fictional characters and writes in the genuine first person. And the emotional weight of his longing, finally met completely head-on, is what makes A Moveable Feast such a great, visceral read.<br />Of course, what helps is the number of interesting characters he interacted with - and his very witty caricatures of some of them. The beat-down of Gertrude Stein is absolutely hilarious, and doubly so for anyone who, like me, cares little for her asinine &quot;works.&quot; Hemingway isn't afraid to deride anyone who he thinks was phonyor pretentious (and there are many such people), and this makes for great entertainment. But others are treated with more respect. Take, for instance, F. Scott Fitzgerald. The editorial review says that Hemingway's portrait of him was &quot;acidic.&quot; Nothing of the kind. True, Hemingway points out his embarrassing character flaws like his poor handling of spirituous beverages and his conduct while intoxicated, but he always makes sure to reiterate that Fitzgerald was a brilliant writer. He praises The Great Gatsby to the skies, and he bitterly laments the fact that Fitzgerald didn't entirely fulfill his enormous potential. Moreover, he calls Fitzgerald a great friend, at one point even his only friend. Now, his opinion of Fitzgerald's wife Zelda is completely different, and _that's_ where the &quot;acidic&quot; part really comes in. Clearly he felt that she was unworthy of Fitzgerald, that she dragged him away from his writing, and that she was a loon, and he blames her for what happened to her husband.<br />Then, at the ending, after all the jokes and anecdotes and observations, something very extraordinary happens. Hemingway tells a final story about how he and his first wife travelled into the mountains and skied at a resort. And here, all the book's wistfulness and melancholy suddenly disappears to reveal an undercurrent of very bitter longing, as Hemingway drops several extremely biting comments about idle rich people who addle the brains of young writers with their excessive praise, and some absolutely brutal remarks about various lying &quot;friends&quot; who think nothing of breaking up couples, stealing wives or leading away husbands. And then he concludes with his remark about being very poor and very happy, and only then, in the book's last sentence, do we realize the full extent of just how much this time meant to him. And when we do realize it, the way he ended his life should come as no surprise to any of us.	2002-03-03
US	43810724	RDSPFD75KZRDC	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	133	144	N	N	Hemingway rules! Rargh!	The Sun Also Rises is one of the few works of literature that shook me to the core, along with Remarque's Three Comrades, Gorky's autobiography, and Chekhov's The Lady With The Dog. I read a page and I was hooked. Bam, just like that. I read the thing in a day. In several hours, actually. And then I went and devoured the rest of the man's literary oeuvre. It's just that great. All the greater because when you really look at it, there's no dramatic action going on here - just some people talking, then going to Spain to see the bullfights. But don't let that fool you - boring this book ain't.<br />Jake Barnes, like most of the characters, is a veteran of World War I. A very unfortunate wound left physical love a complete impossibility for him, and thus he is left gnashing his teeth watching the woman he loves run around with all sorts of men. The Jewish Robert Cohn, who learned boxing in college in order to conquer his feelings of inferiority, happens to become smitten with her as well. Somehow, they and some of their friends and acquaintances end up going to Spain to experience the Fiesta, and while their experience starts the same giddy, frenzied, hedonistic way as for most people, it ends quite differently, when the book's darker undercurrents come to light. Insert scenes of cafe life, fishing, reminiscences, conversations with friends, watching the bullfights, some absolutely brutal humor, and lots and lots of liquor, and you've got yourself Hemingway's first masterpiece. Every element of every great Hemingway book can be seen here - plenty of vivid descriptions; moments of strange, elegiac melancholy; the human spirit fighting against the world; loneliness, isolation, and endurance. They're all here.<br />For some reason, this book seems to draw accusations of anti-Semitism. And all I've to say on that topic is: What? Anti-Semitism? Here? Please, what is this you speak of? Sure, Cohn's a Jew. And sure, the characters aren't too fond of him. And yet, Hemingway presents him in a very, very sympathetic light. Sure, we're rooting for Jake Barnes because he's smarmy and witty and cool, but when we see Cohn break down in tears in his hotel room because ..., he was naive enough to _believe_ Brett loved him, how can you possibly say Hemingway had any anti-Semitic sentiments on his mind? No, no, no, and a thousand times no. This is not a book about Jews, or Americans, or Britishers. This is a book about _people_, about young people searching for substance in a world that has none, trying to build up some sort of semblance of a normal life after having been through war. This is a book about people who feel life has passed them all by, and who have nothing to really look forward to. This book is filled with the genuine bitter loneliness of people who see nothing ahead of them. The sense of hopeless longing for something better permeates every page.<br />The Sun Also Rises is the sound of people trying to find a purpose for themselves in an increasingly shallow world. And lest that not convince you to read it, it happens to rock .... Rarely have I read more bitingly acerbic insults and comebacks, wry and cynical remarks, and deadly accurate observations. Actually, rarely have I ever felt so drawn in to the world of a book as much as here. I identified with Jake Barnes and Bill Gorton and that Englishman they met while fishing and with the boozing Mike and with Cohn. I understood their copious drinking and verbal barb-flinging because I was struck by the moments of absolutely believable fragile vulnerability that lay underneath the surface. The subtle gestures, the shifts in tone, the tough, terse prose all added to the various effects when necessary. When I was done, the book left an indelible stamp on my mind. And what higher recommendation could anyone possibly give a book than that?	2002-02-26
US	43810724	R1EQGMC58VJ1D8	0898753171	113708765	A Raw Youth	Books	2	4	19	N	N	Weak.	A Raw Youth is, quite simply, bad. No, it's not terribly bad - in fact, it has a good deal of redeeming qualities. There are some dead-on accurate observations about human psychology in these pages, as well as some scenes (such as Olya's suicide) that are very genuinely poignant due to Dostoyevsky's attention to detail. But these pages comprise no more than 150 pages out of 560. That makes 400+ pages that could have very safely never been written. This book has a large number of plot lines that don't go anywhere - the only one of them that works is the one with Prince Sergei. The &quot;main&quot; plot line (the one revolving around Versilov) seemed brilliant to me in Part II, but by the end of the book it was negated entirely by the ridiculous, tacked-on resolution. All that stuff about Lambert, the &quot;double&quot; and all that nonsense was too silly and far-fetched to be taken seriously. And lest anyone forgets, I reiterate that it is an intolerable 560 pages long. Given Dostoyevsky's horribly meandering, repetitive writing style, the majority of this book is a chore to read and contributes nothing to the reader. In fact, I still can't think of one coherent theme for this book, and I'd bet Dostoyevsky wasn't too sure of his own intentions in writing it either. Stick with Crime and Punishment.	2002-01-22
US	43810724	R1HSQV3TYCVQ8W	0684844648	11530247	Across the River and into the Trees	Books	5	54	60	N	N	Strange at first, but very good nonetheless.	Exactly what sort of book would one expect from a writer who had just written &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;? I don't know either, but probably not this hushed, elegiac novel. It's not the brooding melancholy of &quot;Across the River and Into the Trees&quot; itself that's surprising - it's that the book contains no action and no climax of pretty much any sort, and that it still manages to be so good.<br />Essentially, the book is the restless consciousness of one Richard Cantwell, Colonel in the United States Army, veteran of two world wars, recipient of many grave wounds, who is travelling through Europe one last time to shoot some ducks, meet some old friends, and spend a couple of days with his last, real and only love, a nineteen-year-old (!) countess named Renate. The book is aptly titled - it flows like a quiet old river, slowly but surely and a bit sadly. Like many a Hemingway hero, Cantwell is stuck with an empty existence, a profession he doesn't much care for, and awareness of both of the above. Love Renate though he does, he lives in the past, constantly reliving this and that battle, moving imaginary troops one minute, then wondering about the meaning of it all the next.<br />Renate herself is the least realistic of all Hemingway women, and as a female lead she's poor indeed. That is not, however, the way she should be seen. She is described as having almost unworldly gentleness and purity, an enormous contrast to the colonel (esp. given her youth). In a way, she becomes almost a symbol of the youth the colonel has irrevocably lost, an epitome of everything he missed out on - and the stories of the battles he tells her become almost like religious confessions. In the end, Cantwell ruefully realizes that he cannot tell her everything, that she could not possibly understand all the sorrows he suffered and never was freed from, that he thus cannot be redeemed, and the book ends on a funereal note.<br />Lack of action notwithstanding, the poignant, honest self-analysis and wistful tone make this book beautiful in the same way a stately, quiet funeral dirge is. Cantwell is likely Hemingway's most autobiographical character - indeed, we get further inside his head than we did in Jake Barnes's, or Robert Jordan's, or Harry Morgan's - and probably well reflects Hemingway's own state of mind at the time. In the long mental soliloquys about politics, Europe, war and life in general, the line between author and character disappears. Indeed, it's difficult to imagine an American officer (of such rank) thinking in such terms - no, this is Hemingway himself, writing down his thoughts and feelings and donning a colonel's uniform for the occasion. And if you felt like that, you might well have come to the same conclusion the author did.	2002-01-07
US	43810724	R1UVQRZG3O85GR	0943151163	286266564	Johnny The Homicidal Maniac: Director's Cut	Books	1	12	79	N	N	Absoludicrous.	Even by writing this review, I think any reputation of being an intellectual that I possibly could have ever made has just perished. No matter, it's probably worth it to contradict all these ridiculous glowing reviews. Here is why this vile little work does not deserve your attention:<br />1. Childish revenge fantasies. We all have them. What they indicate, however, is immaturity, not the fact that their intended targets \\"deserve\\" them.<br />2. Hideous art. Folks, believe me, I've seen a few graphic novels in my day, and in the artwork department this is probably the worst. In the hands of better artists, this thing may have been partially tolerable. It's not.<br />3. Artsiness. The title character blathers a lot. A lot. After the first few pretentious, meaningless, boring monologues the novelty wears off. These are not poetic, nor are they ironic, clever, cynical, deep, philosophical, or above all funny. It's fifteenth-form nihilism, recycled and trivialized once again. Violence is the first refuge of the incompetent rebel. It takes no intelligence to flick \\"society\\" off. Such superficial \\"nonconformity\\" has no value to it at all.<br />4. Pointless satire. All this \\"satirical depth\\" talk made me laugh out loud. Poll takers suck. 7-11 clerks suck too. Wow. Those are some deep social observations. I do believe I am ready to burst a blood vessel laughing at the immense cleverness used in picking these targets - and at the sheer originality of making a homicidal maniac kill them. The unadulterated hilarity is to be marvelled at. Satire like this is incompetent, masturbatory, and wildly unfunny.<br />5. Monotony. Every incident contains exactly the same events in the exact same order.<br />I maintain that this flatulent, boring and absurd thing is similar to Marilyn Manson - so ludicrous that you regard its fans almost with pity. Yes, I fully realize the \\"postmodern irony\\" involved, but given the above five points I could honestly not care less. Actually, wait a second.Marilyn Manson is far classier than this. This book is the graphic novel equivalent of the Insane Clown Posse. And many of its fans will undoubtedly take that as a compliment.	2001-12-28
US	43810724	R3N3IOZCD4A771	0802132189	415743636	Justine, Philosophy in the Bedroom, and Other Writings	Books	3	29	41	N	N	If anything, this is a parody of the modern libertarian.	I quote the Marquis de Sade: &quot;I do not wish to represent vice as being attractive. I do not want to make women adore the men who deceive them, but, rather, to detest them. I have made those of my heroes who tread the pathway of vice so utterly disgusting that they cannot inspire either pity or love. Thus I consider myself justified in claiming that I am more moral than those authors who nervously tone down their work.&quot; And indeed, it is somewhat of a relief to find that Sade (a literate and intelligent fellow) did not uphold the childishly atavistic, fundamentally absurdist ideology that Danville/Bressac/whoever lengthily expounds upon.<br />Indeed, Sade's work is very dangerous to those who take him at face value. The more messed up of the Nazi &quot;thinkers&quot; were no doubt steeped in this sort of literature, and much of the twisted, vicious &quot;reasoning&quot; for their vile worldview can be seen in these pages, as many of Sade's &quot;libertines&quot; often like to sit and have themselves a nice metaphysical chat with whoever they're raping. Indeed, Danville's &quot;pit&quot; and his prattle about the survival of the wealthy mirrors Nazi Germany just about perfectly. It's very disappointing to see the looneytarians try to defend this disproportionately callous, animalistic, disgusting rhetoric, but they do, oozing half-baked ideologuing and lymphatic juice when slightly squeezed.<br />But Sade, despite being bitter, cynical and highly sexed (the stories of his debaucheries are greatly exaggerated, by the bye), strongly opposed capital punishment and man's inhumanity to man in general. It is that fact that makes his work redeemable, even if it isn't all that literary (indeed, no character has more than one dimension...this was the intent, true, but still that fact remains) or if people have the tendency to ignore that underlying truth in favor of the deliberately perverted, distended, bestial &quot;intellectual reasoning&quot; that many of the characters spew - reasoning that Sade intended to have shown how vile its proponents truly were!racters spew - reasoning that Sade intended to have shown how vile its proponents truly were!	2001-12-20
US	43810724	R2WPY8TXFG0UAK	0140447539	884341068	L'Assommoir (The Dram Shop) (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Hammering.	Zola was an amazingly prolific writer - he wrote about thirty novels, and all of them were solidly on the &quot;long&quot; side. Moreover, each was a huge self-contained universe, and a gritty, harrowing epic to boot. In many ways, L'Assommoir is the central novel in his famed 20-novel Rougon/Macquart cycle, as many of the subsequent books have a direct connection to it (Gervaise's daughter is the &quot;star&quot; of Nana; her son is the star of Germinal, and her other son the star of The Masterpiece; etc. etc.). It's an extremely difficult book for the modern man to read - at the time, the novel's crude language and filth shocked readers; as the translator astutely notes, this is unlikely to happen now. Moreover, it's a damningly hard book to translate - not only is it filled with the most complex, specific 19th century French slang there was (even Zola's contemporaries had trouble deciphering it), it has a very peculiar narration style. Zola, usually a fan of a dispassionate sort of narration, adopts a very jerky, repetitive, slangy form here - it's almost as if it's told from Gervaise's perspective, although the story is clearly third-person-omniscient. This is fascinating, though the seemingly endless &quot;Now then&quot;s and &quot;Lord!&quot;s and &quot;Let me tell you&quot;s and so on do tend to grate after a while.<br />But this is all piffle seeing as the story is so amazingly powerful. Zola's one accomplishment here is this - he makes Gervaise such a believable human being that you will genuinely want her to rise above the poverty and find success and happiness. In fact, this does occur in the course of three chapters. Alas, this state does not last, and for another six chapters or so, Gervaise is more and more degraded until we come to the almost unspeakably horrible conclusion. The horrible circumstances of this end, the degradation and humiliation she suffers are undeniably harrowing, and is made worse by this - a lot of her troubles do not come from &quot;the rich,&quot; but from her fellow poor, who delight at pounding her into the dirt.<br />The novel is filled with remarkable characters - Gervaise herself comes first and foremost, but there's also the striking character of Lalie, the execrable shallowness of the Lorilleux (whom I guarantee the reader will blindly hate with an almost silly passion), and above all the melancholy figure of the blacksmith Goujet. Best of all, Zola never preaches, allowing the characters to speak for themselves. It's not even necessarily a profound social statement (though it is) as much as a character study. The author presents you with the facts - now it's up to you to figure out your resulting opinions. This is truly an unforgettable piece here, certainly on par with other 19th century French titans as Hugo's Les Miserables and Balzac's Pere Goriot. Not light reading by any means, but really an incredible novel.	2001-12-01
US	43810724	R1RNSLXNY98EC7	1873982534	128768868	The Torture Garden (Empire of the Senses)	Books	4	116	124	N	N	Whoa...........	Earlier, I said somewhere about some book that reading it was like getting a hefty punch in the face. I was wrong. Now THIS book feels that way. Compared to it, all your &quot;shocking&quot; novels fade. In fact, it seems almost as if the likes of Ballard, Palahniuk, and similar hacks were all aping this book when they were writing their &quot;nihilistic novels.&quot; 102 years after it was written, it's still unreservedly terrifying - I can only imagine the utter frenzy it must have caused upon its release!<br />Anyways, this is the story of a young Frenchman who engages in shady political intrigue, capping off each day with some booze and whores. Your typical debaucher, in short. Then, circumstances require him to go abroad, and he meets Clara, a beautiful-on-the-outside, hideous-on-the-inside young lady who invites him to China. He takes her up, and finds out that his debauches and misdeeds were small fry compared to the utter horrors he sees there. The sexual deviancy is just the beginning - an average day leads him to follow Clara into The Torture Garden, a place that combines beauty and death, growing all sorts of exotic, lovely flowers in the soil that's nourished with the broken bodies of the executed. Of course, the descriptions of the tortures themselves are ghastly enough, but the casual attitude that Clara takes towards death and torture is the true horror here - she admires it, she finds it beautiful, she equates it to love and passion, she actually finds sexual pleasure in it (the book's end has her in the throes of an immense orgasm).<br />But the book is not just another piece of deliberately shocking trash, as the &quot;works&quot; of the aforementioned imitators tend to be. It is redeemed by the fact that, ghastly as Mirbeau's observations are, any sane reader will be forced to admit their truth. This starts in the prologue, where a lively discussion about the role of murder in society takes place - the reader knows that murder is horrible, as do the people discussing it, but many of their observations will ring painfully true. The book frequently forces the reader to confront himself in this way.<br />Again, I can only imagine the reception this book had in 1899. First, Mirbeau was an atheist; second, an anarchist; third, Clara is bisexual; fourth, she has hideous fetishes; fifth, sixth, etc. Nigh every page is festering with corruption and decadence - the protagonist's, and the book's, redeeming quality is that this corruption is recognized as such. The protagonist yearns to get out of the hell-hole he's in, but he is too weak; he loves Clara's beauty, but hates the abominable sore of her soul. He hates the torture and the false beauty and the executioner who takes such pride in his awful work, but he recognizes that Europe is simply a more veiled, more &quot;civilized&quot; version of the same - thus China and the garden function as allegories, and the book gains a new meaning as a denunciation of all the unthinkable human brutality of modern civilization. &quot;In this intolerable conflict you lose all joy of life and all feeling of personality, because at every moment they suppress and restrain and check the free play of your powers.&quot;<br />It's hard to say whether I recommend this book or not. It's quite the page-turner, certainly, but it takes rather strong nerves to finish (and then it's unlikely you'll ever re-read it). You'll have to decide for yourself. But I WOULD recommend it over the likes of Crash/Fight Club/etc. - as long as you're aiming to read a book that's violently distasteful, at least read the one that possesses some artistic merit.	2001-11-07
US	43810724	R1AATCW2835O0X	0192837028	368367935	Germinal (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;A lament rising from the darkness of Hell&quot;	Reading Germinal is like receiving a hefty punch in the face, albeit in a good sense. I can only imagine what Zola's contemporaries must have thought as they finished it. It's a very brutal book in numerous ways - I was expecting the sentiments of Hugo, and man oh man, was I surprised. Germinal is a prime example of the burgeoning &quot;naturalism&quot; movement. And yet, it's hard to believe that Zola approached it scientifically, as he claimed to, since it's so utterly jam-packed with passion. In many places, the book is mind-numbingly brutal, shocking even today. Indeed, while many of Zola's contemporaries poetized the working class, Zola was careful to tell the truth about them - they are illiterate, brutal savages. Now, that fact is not their fault, as they have been raped by the system since birth, but it is nonetheless a fact that the author makes no effort to hide. Numerous scenes will leave the reader amazed at the senseless cruelty - the sorry end of the shopkeeper Maigrat, for instance - but this cruelty is not limited to any one side, giving the (correct) impression that it's inherent to the _system_, not any of the people.<br />But all of the politics would seem hollow if the book wasn't filled with unforgettable people. Monsieur Hennebeau's life of luxury is sharply contrasted with the lives of the starving workers - and yet one simply _cannot_ dismiss the aching, naked loneliness he feels every second as the pettiness of a rich man. It's real and it's terribly sad. Likewise, the repressed love that Etienne and Catherine (as well as Bebert and Lydie - now that was one of the most touching scenes I've ever read...) feel for each other is poignant beyond words. And while La Mouquette is certainly quite the ribald slut, she's also one of the book's most warmly sympathetic characters, and the love she bears Etienne is one of the purest feelings anyone feels in the book. And pure feelings seem precious to a reader when a lot of the book is filled with suchdisturbing depravity (Jeanlin's senseless abuse of his friends and ultimately senseless crimes, for instance).<br />Though the book makes a point that the horrible conditions of workers' life _cannot_ go on for much longer, it also very accurately shows the flaws of socialism - its description of the fall of the International, in hindsight, also fits the collapse of the Soviet Union as well as that of any other fallen ideal. In essence, the book pits two extremes against one another - the ideals of liberty/equality/fraternity versus the blackest form of corporate atavism, and the result is apocalyptically harrowing, and almost unbearably bleak. Zola's hope-filled ending in fact seems a little forced in lieu of all the shattering events of the rest of the book. That aside, it's definitely a classic in its own right (quite the page turner, too - I finished it in two days), and definitely deserves to be read.	2001-11-04
US	43810724	R148QUOXVNNIB4	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The best fantasy novel ever written.	Now, take note - I am emphatically not a fan of fantasy. In fact, I recommend limiting yourself to just this book as far as the genre goes, as the rest of the genre is mostly sterile, unoriginal, and hackneyed (and rips off this book a lot, too). This book, on the other hand, rocks on every level, because it has something that most fantasy (and most books in general nowadays) lacks - some absolutely wonderful characterization and imagery. Who could forget Fiver and his unsettling yet poetic visions (for some reason I keep associating his trembling hallucinations with Richey James, lyricist of the Manic Street Preachers; rockin' band, by the way)? Or Holly's own rather genuinely disturbing account? Or Cowslip's warren? Or the rabbit stories? And so on, and so on.<br />This book is rife with unforgettable imagery like that, and it is one of those few books that can be treated as a non-ridiculous allegory. True, it's not quite high-school reading (middle school the highest, sez I), but it's an absolutely necessary book to read at that age level. If you read it then, it will stay with you for the rest of your life. And sure, Adams gave us a real groaner with the execrable sequel - but this is one of the most imaginative and thought-provoking children's books in existence. I may be compromising my reputation as a Deep Intellectual by reviewing a children's book, but this is the one book that's worth it.	2001-10-30
US	43810724	R3HV2T0EYGP3GM	0192838296	64753641	Devils: The Possessed (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Hmmm....	Well, when I first started reading this, I groaned, thinking it would be a bore of Dickensian proportions. Ha ha. How wrong I was. True, the entire first third is fairly bland and tedious, but the rest is definitely most gripping, and leaves quite the impression.<br />To quickly summarize, this is a book about how a political radical arrives in a provincial town and causes utter chaos by means of lies, deceit and murder, as well as by taking advantage of the inherent weakness and sheep-like qualities of most of the citizenry. Indeed, Peter Stepanovich Verkhovensky is a demonic fellow if there ever was one. Except he's not the kind of demonic villain that you respect while hating - he's just a ludicrous, talentless buffoon, which makes you hate him unreservedly.<br />The thing is - he wins. At the end of the novel, a whole bunch of people either lie dead or have their lives broken beyond repair, and Mr. V. escapes without ever having to deal with the consequences of his actions. Throughout the book, you keep expecting _someone_ to have the guts to stand up to and foil the punk, but no one does. Even the childlike and innocent Kirillov, the one character that the reader can unreservedly like in the book, falls victim to the villain's scheming. And while I'm at it - there are no redeemable characters in this book. All are either scumbags like the villain or such pathetic, will-less mediocrities that I wanted to slap them about the face quite a few times. Among them, the enigmatic Stavrogin, while being hideously amoral, is still the best of the lot due to his courage and will power - and he fails miserably in the end just like everyone else, making this book a story of almost apocalyptic failure and social collapse. Which, of course, was its intended purpose. Dostoyevsky accomplished everything he set out to do, and the result is one of the most oppressively morose books ever written. Not because it's gloomy - actually, it's filled with crude humor - but because of the catastrophic worthlessness of the characters. A success for the author, and a nice kick in the pants for the reader to ponder for a few days after finishing the book.<br />(Aside: Dostoyevsky, a racist? Please, let's not be ridiculous here. Where, pray tell, does he indulge in this purported anti-Semitism of his _anywhere_ in this novel? Let's not read into things and try to find things that don't exist in them, shall we? Harmless though it is, it's annoying how people would try to mar someone's name with meaningless accusations such as this. A bit touchy, eh?)catastrophic worthlessness of the characters. A success for the author, and a nice kick in the pants for the reader to ponder for a few days after finishing the book.<br />(Aside: Dostoyevsky, a racist? Please, let's not be ridiculous here. Where, pray tell, does he indulge in this purported anti-Semitism of his _anywhere_ in this novel? Let's not read into things and try to find things that don't exist in them, shall we? Harmless though it is, it's annoying how people would try to mar someone's name with meaningless accusations such as this. A bit touchy, eh?)	2001-10-29
US	43810724	RGJYTQFAN42DL	0679752684	529820051	The Sound of Waves	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of my favorite books.	When I picked up this book, the book jacket said something like &quot;And so, Mr. Mishima uses a simple setting of a fishing village to create an unforgettable love scene of amazing tenderness and purity.&quot; I remember being skeptical about this, thinking &quot;Tenderness? In this century? Pshaw! This Mr. Mishima must be full of it.&quot; And I've never been happier to be wrong.<br />The Sound of Waves is not a multi-faceted epochal genre-shattering masterpiece. And it's all the better for it. It's an extremely simple love story set in a remote Japanese island where the people work all their lives fishing and/or diving for pearls. And it's beautiful. The book jacket was right on. Hatsue is portrayed with such amazing tenderness and sympathy on the author's part that she becomes a human being, but she's not the only one. The &quot;ugly girl&quot; who falls in love with Shinji is also an amazingly real person. As is Shinji's mother, as is almost everybody else. It's incredibly refreshing to finally read an author who eschews all that arty &quot;deep complex psyche&quot; crud for the sake of such simple, yet unmistakably _human_ characterization. <br />Sometimes the language seems a little clunky - this is entirely the fault of the translation. I imagine it must sound even more beautiful in the original Japanese. (And the translation is no great impediment - come on, this book _is_ extremely short.) In short, this is why humanity invented writing - so authors like Mishima could write books like The Sound of Waves. Now, I've only read three of his works, so it's theoretically possible that he has surpassed The Sound of Waves somewhere else, but I doubt it. Remarkable.	2001-10-25
US	43810724	R2MKLM0UXB5FP4	0571174450	377684895	Touching from a Distance: Ian Curtis and Joy Division	Books	2	86	130	N	N	It depends on how you see it...	If you view this book as the biography of a woman who also happened to be Ian Curtis' wife, it's fine. If you view it as a book about Ian Curtis, it's not very fine. In fact, as several people have pointed out - Deborah never really seemed to be all that close to Ian. Whether that was her fault or whether it was because Ian was just being a jerk is not for us to judge (and as someone else said earlier, Deborah was likely bitter herself, seeing as Ian was having an affair, and thus more than likely to simply explain it as the latter). <br />In essence, we learn what Ian did at such-and-such point, but never what inspired him to write \\"She's Lost Control\\" or \\"Twenty-Four Hours.\\" In fact, Deborah seemed to be rather resentful towards the band and blamed it (among other things) for driving a wedge between them. She did not understand him, and he did not understand her (remember the words to \\"I Remember Nothing\\"?).<br />I will, however, say the one thing about what some people have said - Ian Curtis, though it would be cretinous to assume he was devoid of faults, was certainly not a Nazi. As I understand, Deborah wrote that he was \\"obsessed\\" with things like the uniforms, the appearance, the organization of Nazism. Interpret that as you will. I will, however, bring up two quotes, both by Ian Curtis himself:<br />1. \\"This is the room, the start of it all / no portrait so fine - only sheets on the wall / I've seen the nights, filled with bloodsport and pain / and the bodies obtained, the bodies obtained / where will it end?\\" - Joy Division, \\"Day of the Lords\\"<br />2. \\"All dressed in uniforms so fine / they drank and killed to pass the time / wearing the shame of all their crimes / with measured steps they walked in line / they walked in line\\" - Joy Division, \\"They Walked in Line\\"<br />Somehow that does not strike me as something a diehard Hitler fan would say. In fact, it seems to me to be the direct _opposite_. And \\"Decades,\\" though I still don't know what it's about, hasalways brought up images in my mind of young Allied [European] soldiers going into Germany at the end of World War II and discovering the full unspeakable horrors of the concentration camps - \\"we knocked on the doors of Hell's darker chambers / pushed to the limits we dragged ourselves in\\" - and being scarred by that for life. So, judging from Ian's _own words_ that he _passionately sang_, the \\"Ian was a Nazi\\" argument becomes rather groundless. (Why do people make such statements, anyway?) ..., the _name of his band itself_ comes from a book that describes the _utter terror_ of a Nazi camp.<br />And so, after all that, at the end of this book, we're not a single step closer to understanding the kind of person Ian was. (I'm not even getting into the idea that we, based on some of what I mentioned above, don't really know how much faith to put in Deborah's book...) Kind of frustrating, really...	2001-09-07
US	43810724	R21323FDINJWCA	0140441131	351689121	Dead Souls (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Utterly wonderful.	This is not just a great story. This is not a dreary academic work your professor makes you read, afterwards exclaiming &quot;Ah, but can you see ze PASSION! ze GENIUS!&quot; This is the pinnacle of Russian literature, of the Russian language. Gogol intended this to be a ground-shattering, lasting epic in the style of Dante, with three books detailing Chichikov's evil, repentance and salvation, but we only have the first and bits of the second; Gogol was a very angst-ridden man, plagued with doubts about his self-worth, and a manipulative priest he knew convinced him to burn the second part and never start the third.<br />So as a result, we're only left with the first part, a vicious, biting attack on the stagnation and hopelessness of Russian rural life. Gogol makes it come to life - the stupidity of the landowners, their utter dullness and incompetence, their avarice and worthlessness. It's amazing - but it should probably be read in Russian, as Russian is not something you can easily translate to English. Chichikov's crafty convoluted, Devilish scheme (Gogol intended to make him a sort of modern manifestation of the Devil) quickly becomes just a vehicle to take him around the country and meet all of these intellectually bankrupt scumbags who would have been really funny if they weren't drawn directly, 100% from real life. The book is given force by its _relevance_ to Russia and its truthfulness. It will amaze you - you will be appalled by the fact that such utter ignorant nonentities of the rural aristocracy still had land, power, and were considered owners of human beings. Social commentary never got better than this.<br />Pushkin may have been an utter genius of literature all around, but Gogol can truly be called the father of Russian literature. Dostoyevsky, in fact, once said just that. This book is a work of unadulterated genius. In fact, it _is_ Russia in that time - it so perfectly captures the problems of the times. And yet, Gogol clearly loves his country despite hating the things that went on in it - just look at some of the beautiful, poetic passages when Chichikov is riding across the steppe. It's a beautiful, wintry story that has lost none of its appeal or relevance.	2001-09-07
US	43810724	R370A3UJ69KSSK	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Read it even if you know you'll hate it.	This seems to me to be one of those books that you absolutely have to read even if you know you'll hate it - just because it's so important, so touted and so, well, very well-written. Like the summaries say, it &quot;chronicles a gifted young woman's descent into insanity.&quot; It's very realistic because it was drawn directly from real life - the protagonist (one Esther Greenwood) _is_ Sylvia Plath, more or less. Plath very vividly describes every detail of every day, and fleshes out her character completely.<br />My one impression was bewilderment at the emptiness, soullessness and lack of purpose of most of the characters in the book, Esther included. However, this was not due to the author but due to the author's subjects - people _are_ really like that, and you'll realize that at some point in the book and you'll hope to hell that you're different. (So just for that little revelation, I recommend it.) Every one of the characters is so real that you probably know someone exactly like them - the crusty Jay Cee, the means-well-but-is-a-complete-jerk Buddy Willard, all the various young women who think nothing of giving away their bodies to a fleeting acquaintance, Esther, who is incapable of achieving anything despite her obvious talent and so plans to affirm her identity through sleeping with someone she just met, etc. None of them are exaggerated in the least. <br />At the end, the story will leave the readers asking why all this happened, why Esther went crazy, why she couldn't do something with her talents, why no one seems to have any reason to take up space on the earth, whose fault is it, what do we do about it, why it has to be like this, and so on. The book provides no answers to any of that, and unfortunately, it's too late to ask Sylvia Plath to answer.	2001-07-06
US	43810724	R34LV9W2EM3U1A	4770026099	320435846	Taiko	Books	4	79	82	N	N	Deserves to be both read and bought.	I had just read James Clavell's &quot;Shogun&quot;, which was set shortly &quot;after the Taiko's death&quot;. It contained little information about the Taiko (title of one absolute ruler of Japan), so when I saw this book, I took it in hopes of finding out more about him.<br />I was not disappointed. It's a huge epic chronicling the life of Toyotomi Hideyoshi, the man who unified Japan with the vision of Oda Nobunaga (who tried to do so but was killed). This book succeeds at every angle - when it talks of military tactics, when it talks of historical inter-clan relationships, when it shows us Hideyoshi's innermost thoughts, and so on. It is all in one a history book, a book of military conquests, a love story, a story about honor - a true epic. Many of the characters, like the traitor Mitsuhide, made a deep, lasting impression on me. Everyone is fully fleshed out, their motives not only fully explained, but truly understandable, so you can actually empathize with some of them. Occasionally the narration is a bit dry, with over-emphasis on the vast quantity of names that everyone seems to have, but the people are so real and so captivating that you can easily read through all 944 pages in one sitting.<br />In the West we unfortunately know very little about the intricate history of the very unique and fascinating country that is Japan. Taiko is a fine slice of historical fiction, and should get some people interested in the above. Think nothing of the length - just start reading it, as the characters will pull you in after a very brief while.	2001-07-05
US	43810724	R3G3WOWT7XNUCN	0679757899	717639372	East, West: Stories	Books	2	6	20	N	N	Not all he's cracked up to be.	I'm afraid that the stories in East, West, though occasionally interesting, really didn't do that much for me. It seems to me that the main reason for Rushdie being hailed as a great Eastern writer is that he is one of the very few currently well known ones, due to the publicity he got when clashing with Khomeini. I know he tried to write about life, to record on paper the lives of modern Indians in a modern age, except it doesn't feel very real. The dialogues are often bulky, sometimes clumsy. Maybe that's because of Indian conventions of speech translated into English. But it doesn't really seem like any of his characters could be real, breathing people, which is sort of the purpose of writing &quot;about life&quot;. Maybe that's because these are short stories and the characters don't have enough space to be fleshed out. But then again, many famous writers of short stories managed to record whole lives very accurately in a few pages (Chekhov, anyone?).<br />That's not to say these are necessarily terrible. They're interesting enough, and most come with twists at the end that will genuinely surprise you. &quot;The Prophet's Hair&quot; is a nice Arabian Nights-like diversion, &quot;The Courter&quot; is kinda poignant, &quot;At the Auction...&quot; is kinda reflective and philosophical. But it's really not a book that I would _buy_, to keep on my shelf and come back to over and over. After reading it, I have utterly no desire to return to it.<br />High point of the book: &quot;The Prophet's Hair&quot; or &quot;The Courter.&quot; They come the closest to making an impression. Low point of the book: Definitely &quot;Yorick,&quot; yet another bad modern bastardization of Hamlet which tries to be &quot;witty&quot; and &quot;literate.&quot; That story alone cost the book's rating a star.	2001-07-05
US	43810724	R2MN6WZNLV106Q	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Better than 1984, worse than Brave New World	Let's not get confused here: The Handmaid's Tale is good, rather much so. Whether or not it's the best dystopian novel ever, well, that's a different story. <br />The Handmaid's Tale is from the point of view of, unsurprisingly, a Handmaid (a &quot;surrogate mother&quot; who is reduced to a breeding machine in the theocratic fascist state of Gilead). The book often shifts between the present and the Handmaid's (named &quot;Of Fred&quot; or Offred to indicate who owns her) memories of a much different past, when she used to be a normal woman in a normal world. Slowly we learn a bit about Gilead's ideology: using a few isolated Bible verses they have reduced most women to just chattel, forbidding them to learn to read and write, and making them wear veils. (Clearly, the point is that all of these things have all happened before in some way somewhere on the Earth, and that they could easily happen again.) This existence begins to weigh on Offred, for whom such things as the angle of her head, her posture and her tone of voice can mean the difference between life and death - all the more so when she meets her old friend, who was always militant, feminist and rebellious, and sees that even she ended up being spiritually beaten. To try and retain her identity, she starts breaking rules. This culminates in her sleeping with the house guard, who in the end gets her across the border into Canada.<br />The most interesting part of the book, however, is the epilogue, a transcript of a scientific conference about 150 years after the main story takes place. Here we are told in greater detail about how Gilead came to power and what its &quot;ideals&quot; were like - not enough to satisfy our curiosity, unfortunately. It ends with the note that since the main story is a first-person account, no one can be sure as to its accuracy; therefore, no one will really find out the truth about the full extent of Gilead's oppression and we can't be sure if we have just read the truth.<br />Somehow I found Brave New World's picture of Dystopia to be more complete, and thus scarier - and also more realistic; it does require no small suspension of disbelief to assume that the whole USA would willingly subjugate and disenfranchise 50% of its population (which worked and paid taxes and served in the armed forces). According to the book, the takeover starts with the massacre of the U.S. government, but it would never have been successful without popular approval. I also don't accept this as a &quot;feminist novel,&quot; as some do - Gilead's oppression bears no parallel at all to anything today. That aside, it's a fine story, if not because of its frightening world then because of the poignance of the main character's situation. Recommended.	2001-06-28
US	43810724	R244ODZ00GUTLY	0878162216	879310557	The Crow	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Wow. That's all you can really say...	It seems ordinary. Your basic plot of love-stronger-than-death: a newlywed couple are brutally killed by a bunch of stoned thugs, and a year later, the man returns from the dead, invincible and really angry. Scratch around fifty thousand thugs. The end, right?<br />Except it's so much more than that. One thing you will notice at once is the highly stylized artwork. Sure, now it may not look so original (given the 50,000,000 imitators) but you've got to remember how old it is. The one thing that stands out is the eyes - there are scenes where Eric (the avenger) stands in a relaxed or otherwise &quot;normal&quot; fashion, but his eyes look alive, burning with indescribable hate. He also is quite literary, often quoting books, poetry and the Bible, adding to the atmosphere. Though you may be shocked at the vast amounts of violence the Crow perpetrates, by the chapter &quot;The Atrocity Exhibition&quot;, which fully explains what happened to him and his beloved, you'll be firmly on his side. There is absolutely no way to feel sorry for any of Eric's victims. The action is interrupted frequently by long stretches showing Eric's flashbacks or just his grief, which is intense. Some of the images of Eric crying and cursing God and everything are so disturbing they're unforgettable.<br />In a way, this book portrays a chapter of musical history. O'Barr (the author) had been listening to a great deal of music before writing it, and it shows - Eric often quotes the band Joy Division (the book is also dedicated to JD's singer, who killed himself) and many of the prefaces/notes/expositions contain quotes from The Cure. Also, Eric himself is modeled after the singers Iggy Pop and Ian Curtis, and many of the chapter titles are names of various songs.<br />Despite the vast amounts of action and violence, you are as a reader never allowed to forget Eric's motivation. The theme of love always comes back, and it's soul-wrenching to watch Eric try to fight his alternating memories of happiness and pain. In Eric's world, there is only good or bad, black or white, purity and love or hatred and brutality, and the dialogue and the obvious passion of the book's author makes all of it come alive. By the end, you really grow to hope that the Crow can somehow find his inner peace. You should read this book at least once.	2001-06-19
US	43810724	R8SJ34O17W3CD	0451527720	161332845	The Toilers of the Sea (Signet Classics)	Books	5	30	33	N	N	Essential.	I own the Collected Works of Victor Hugo, 15 vols. Last summer I found the time to read all of them. I must say that The Toilers of the Sea, in the end, strikes me as the best book Hugo ever wrote. Sure, we have The Hunchback of Notre Dame. And Les Miserables. But Toilers of the Sea got to me more, okay? Somehow I identified with Gilliat more than with Quasimodo and Jean Valjean combined. He's a very realistic character, unlike the overly miserable hunchback or the overly saintly Valjean, and his struggles are very realistic, which makes the reader care far more about whether he succeeds or not. <br />Hugo had spent some years in Jersey/Guernsey, where the book takes place, and I suppose that observing the sea was all there was to do there, since in the book it's clear that he knows every little aspect of it. The sea is just as prominent a character as Gilliat, and just as realistic, and has even more space devoted to it than any of the humans. It's hard to think of it as inanimate after reading this book. The imagery of the storm is certainly unforgettable.<br />This book is more touching than Hugo's others, maybe because the author focuses more on telling a story rather than a Big Important Social Message About the Plight of the Poor. There's humor, there's tragedy, there's drama, and the result is a very immersive read.	2001-05-28
