US	43810359	R19A92V5OY1EUP	1902881478	162682246	The Dance of Geometry	Books	3	0	1	N	N	shadows and light	Brian Howell's successful first book, The Dance of Geometry, is an indulgence for all of us art aficionados - those of us who have found ourselves irrevocably lost in a \\"story\\" captured on canvas, and the clandestine lives and experiences of the artists themselves.<br /><br />Howell artfully interweaves three unique perspectives, offering the reader a rare glimpse into the mind and life of 17th century artistic mastermind, Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer - the artist as a child, pliable and vulnerable to influence; Vermeer as an artist in his prime; and a modern-day art copyist in quest of more than a mere replica of the Dutch artist's work. Excerpts of Vermeer's childhood and experiences which would influence his work later on in his life are melded together, further on in the plane of time, with an abstract narrative of his journey to becoming an ingenious and respected artist in later years.<br /><br />The story casts shadows and light on the beautiful harmony, colour, and depth found in Vermeer's art, possibly enhanced by incorporating the use of a camera obscura, and utilization of de Vries' perspective and visual field.<br /><br />The final chronicle by the modern day art copyist delving into Vermeer's work and milieu as an artist, is the final `signature' to Howell's literary work of art.<br /><br />By and large, The Dance of Geometry is an engrossing piece of abstract work that is worth exploring in detail...not unlike Vermeer's own.	2004-08-23
US	43810359	R2STW77J2VX2T9	075408745X	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious &quot;love square&quot;. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life. I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	RE1KRSXTIAI7X	0316381209	370551246	The Anniversary: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Three women. Three notes. One fear�	On the fifth anniversary of the trial and execution of infamous serial killer Steven Gage, three women separately involved in the Gasey case - Callie Thayer, Melanie White, and Diane Massey - each receive an ominous missive that they haven't been forgotten. But almost as quickly as the women can digest the full meaning of the message, the threats leap from the printed page and into reality. Determined to no longer be a passive victim, Callie Thayer commences the battle of her life to expose the personified evil force responsible for so much terror and violence. Nothing prepares her for the entangling web of guilt, suspicion and untruths she will ultimately uncover.<br />Talented author, Amy Gutman, weaves this gripping psychological courtroom thriller with stunning skill and white-knuckle suspense. Riveting, intense and most definitely addictive, I was feverishly impelled to finish The Anniversary in one sitting...and on the edge of my seat the entire time!	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R193HITK3RR1AL	0679405763	328088642	Far From the Madding Crowd (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious &quot;love square&quot;. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life. I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R1WLECTKKBI4VA	0316162531	79293364	The Nearly Departed: Or, My Family & Other Foreigners	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An intriguing and touching collection of family memories	&quot;As mother taught me, life was a stage - a real stage, with no metaphor intended - and everyone on it but us was an extra.&quot;<br />(-The Nearly Departed: Or, My Family &amp; Other Foreigners)<br />Far from prosaic and most definitely diverting, Brenda Cullerton's unabashedly candid memoir \\"The Nearly Departed: Or, My Family &amp; Other Foreigners\\" is a refreshing departure from the autobiographical norm. Dancing between dark humour, stinging wit and poignant life realities, the author's recollections of her wildly outlandish family are often more bitter than sweet. To be sure, the collective confessions from the `Cullerton Family Crypt' will have you sobbing, guffawing, sighing, and feeling strangely schizophrenic - all in one chapter.<br />The truth is, Brenda Cullerton's family would raise anyone's eyebrow. At the forefront of these eccentric anecdotes are her parents - a social misfit mother who gardened in baggy black undies, lavish jewelry coupled with pop-it beads, and her hair bedecked in curlers; and an alcoholic father who was usually found anywhere but home, and amassed a hidden fortune as traveling businessman in the shoe trade (only to later hide his cash in their dilapidated barn, stuffed in the toes of moldy footwear).<br />Now in their winter years, Brenda Cullerton's parents - suffering from ill health - evoke her return to this alien landscape called \\"home\\". As the author painstakingly sifts through piles of family memories encountered along the way, not only does she learn more about these virtual \\"foreigners\\" who are family, but ultimately discovers herself and the all reasons for her insatiable desire to escape the past.<br />Artfully and intelligently captured on paper, it is Cullerton's ingenuous journey through introspection which makes \\"The Nearly Departed\\" quite nearly flawless.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R3DM5Z294EZC0V	037575797X	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In &quot;Far from the Madding Crowd&quot;, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious 'love square'. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />&quot;Far from the Madding Crowd&quot;, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life.<br />I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R2YKQUXP8U4SPS	019280149X	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious &quot;love square&quot;. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life. I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R1RTC2MVLSVV9T	0316735736	563997838	All He Ever Wanted: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Never judge a book by it's...title	Never having the pleasure of reading any of Shreve's works prior to delving into &quot;All He Ever Wanted\\", I admittedly formed an unfair and premature opinion of the novel based on its somewhat flimsy melodramatic title. However, I was soon to discover that it is definitely a fitting and descriptive cover for the thespian narrative that unravels within. I was also taken unaware that this was a period piece, set in New England in the early part of the 20th Century - a fact I was all too happy to uncover, as I am an aficionado of period works.<br />\\"All He Ever Wanted\\" is a heart-wrenching account of unrequited love, obsession, jealousy and betrayal; exploring the most intense (and at times, darkest) workings of the human heart. Dreary and rather depressing, this candid narrative painstakingly chronicles a marriage of convenience gone sadly awry. It is written in the voice of Nicholas van Tassel, an English literary professor at a small college in New England as he ponders upon the memories of his fateful past...<br />One harrowing evening after escaping a restaurant fire, van Tassel happens upon the striking Etna Bliss and is instantaneously enraptured. Here commences their somewhat stifled and confusing courtship. Ultimately, their marriage forces each character to make critical compromises that will change their lives forever: Man gives up romantic ideal of marriage (knowing full well his wife does not love him) if only to `possess' her for himself; Woman relinquishes hope of marrying someone she loves and settles instead for a man who offers her freedom and a degree of independence (which is ultimately counterfeit).<br />Although the story is a little slow and one-dimensional at the outset, as the plot proceeds the reader will be taken in by the rich detail and character definition that quickly develops. The letters between certain characters were also a nice touch, allowing a glimpse into their personal thoughts - a unique perspective for the reader, digressing temporarily from the narrator's recital.<br />All in all, I must say I was thoroughly impressed by Shreve's shrewd portrayal of affections not reciprocated in &quot;All He Ever Wanted&quot;...it is a theme all too familiar in the human game of love.ing temporarily from the narrator's recital.  <br />All in all, I must say I was thoroughly impressed by Shreve's shrewd portrayal of affections not reciprocated in &quot;All He Ever Wanted&quot;...it is a theme all too familiar in the human game of love.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R3HQCKXQGRT6YY	0451528565	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious &quot;love square&quot;. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life. I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	RUNG1Y5BBWG8A	0792729447	914497281	Redemption	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Hold your breath - this book is cunning and dark	Be on your guard and trust your instincts, for things are not always what they appear to be. Such was the case in a seemingly idyllic affluent community, the setting for Nancy Geary's second novel \\"Redemption\\" - a solid whodunit in the 'old school' style that will keep you guessing until the end.<br />When the beautiful, pampered debutante, Hope Lawrence, is found dead the day of her wedding, her visiting cousin Frances Pratt must work with the local police to unravel what is supposedly a clear-cut case of suicide. Little prepares Frances for what she discovers - shameful family secrets, and shrouded goings-on which the community itself is hiding behind its opulent veneer.<br />As a seasoned mystery fan, who hankers for a good Hercule Poirot or Sherlock Holmes adventure, I admit to being fastidious over the quality of mysteries that I read. Modern-day thrillers in particular, are usually of little interest to me. However, Geary's suspenseful page-turner is a refreshing exception. While skillfully setting the scene for a most intriguing murder case, Geary weaves the tale so cleverly, it cannot fail to capture the reader almost immediately. The cast of convincing characters, each with a definite skeleton is his/her personal closet, is brought to life with amazing detail yet with an ease that makes them credible.<br />Everything else aside, Geary's novel has the added value of being highly readable. It is easy to become enveloped in the plot in just one sitting, pulled along by the delicious suspense and momentum found within its pages. I reached the last chapter of &quot;Redemption&quot; in few days, complete with accelerating pulse, perspiring hands, and a flurry of speculation. Well done, Geary.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	RLQGK2YIBE22U	1401032966	224803640	Ceridwen of Kilton	Books	3	3	4	N	N	richly-woven tapestry but a bit too racey in parts	\\"Ceridwen of Kilton\\" is set in unstable 9th Century Saxon England during the Danish Viking incursion. The narrative revolves around Ceridwen - a brave and beautiful young mother and wife, dealing with life during such a volatile period of time. Ceridwen of Kilton is a richly-woven tapestry of characters with great depth, beauty and strength. The tale holds an appeal to the human plight of survival and love. We agonize with the characters...the long (yet resolved) understanding between Sirroc the Dane and Ceridwen. The deep kinship yet brotherly rivalry between Godwin and Gyric...to mention but a few. The characters are hardly static, as they grow throughout the story. I especially enjoyed observing the persona of Gyric (Ceridwen's  husband), who advances from a inward lost soul, lacking self-confidence, to a strong stabilizing force of the Kilton foik, and a behind-the-scenes hero and leader.<br />The narrative itself is masterfully written and its complex historical details are a testament to a novel well-researched with much care. There are some parts in the book - explicitly sensual in nature - which I think the story could have done without. I personally did my best to skip these parts, for reasons of my own. It is therefore the reason why I don't think I could recommend this book to &quot;everyone&quot;. Yet, the plot and characters alone, stand testimony to a most intriguing and adventuresome tale.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R3DTP3DYKKMMXG	0141439653	328088642	Far from the Madding Crowd (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Forget the infamous &quot;love triangle&quot;...	In Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy introduces us to the precarious &quot;love square&quot;. At the core of all the turmoil is beautiful farm girl, Bathsheba Everdene - spirited, vain, intelligent and adept at toying with the hearts of men. Inevitably beguiled by her charms a humble and kind farmer, Gabriel Oak, fervently attempts to win Bathsheba's affections. Enter the competition: (suitor#2) Farmer Boldwood - a wealthy and temperate middle-aged man respected in the community, eventually plunges into maniacal obsession at the mere possibility of making the beloved Miss Everdene his wife; and (suitor#3) Sergeant Francis Troy - a dashing young philandering soldier, with his share of inner demons, ruthlessness and vanity, vies for Bathsheba's hand in marriage. Bathsheba's ultimate decision, and the cataclysm it evokes, lies at the epicenter of Hardy's unforgettable ambivalent story.<br />Far from the Madding Crowd, Thomas Hardy's fourth novel, saw publication in 1874 and earned him widespread popularity as a writer. A delicately woven tale of unrequited love and regret, set in the mid-19th century, Far From the Madding Crowd is a masterpiece of pure story-telling. Hardy's classic style is a pleasure to read as he masterfully brings his characters and their dealings to life. I would not hesitate to say it definitely captured my heart as another favourite.	2004-03-03
US	43810359	R3TW7FC6VVEA0W	0316098736	415963045	The Last Good Day	Books	1	13	21	N	N	a forgettable mystery, an un-thrilling thriller	The Last Good Day, a tepid less-than-riveting mystery/thriller, is Blauner's unsuccessful attempt at creating a believable tense backdrop of New York suburban life shortly after September 11, 2001. While some parts of the storyline `hold water', the majority of the novel lays fallow, and unfortunately fails to deliver on almost every level imaginable.<br /><br />The various not-so-subtle references to 9-11 are not apropos to the plot, and as a result, appear to be a flimsy attempt to draw curious readers possibly scouting for terrorist intrigue. The shallow two-dimensional, and often gutter-mouthed, characters fail to engage the reader, and only highlight the carelessly constructed plot which is neither absorbing or captivating. Give this one a pass. Any redeeming qualities to the novel? The photo on the cover is nice...	2004-02-25
US	43810359	R2R22IKTHNLDZ3	0486424510	424220149	The Moonstone (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	the magnum opus of suspense and intrigue	T.S. Eliot was not exaggerating when he dubbed Collins' masterpiece &quot;the first, the longest, and the best of modern English detective novels&quot;. The Moonstone, first published in 1868, is the magnum opus of suspense and intrigue that will surely please the avid mystery and/or classics buff.<br />The adventure begins when the priceless yellow diamond from India, known as the 'Moonstone', is brought to English as spoils of war and is bestowed upon the spirited Rachel Verrinder on her 18th birthday. Chaos soon commences. The valuable jewel is stolen that very night and the entire household falls under suspicion - including a hunchbacked maid, an assemblage of enigmatic Indian jugglers, and Miss Verrinder's cousin Mr. Franklin Blake. Suspicion of thievery does not even escape Miss Verrinder herself. The famed Sergeant Cuff is summoned to the house to try and make sense of the baffling mystery of the diamond's disappearance and the strange events that ensue.<br />The Moonstone is comprised of three novelettes and a handful of sub-sections, each narrated by three individuals (and a handful of other characters writing shorter supporting memoirs), with their own whimsical writing styles and detailed anecdotes about their adventures surrounding the jewel's disappearance and the aftermath. Their varying perspectives on incidents throw interesting light on the events unraveling around the reader. Introducing the novel is the household's elderly and garrulous manservant, Mr. Gabriel Betteredge, with his witty maxims and proverbial quotes from his personal bible, \\"Robinson Crusoe\\". The pious and almost-fanatical Miss Clack's cold recital of events, is followed soon after by Mr. Franklin Blake's narrative of events, and the mystery's final and most ingenious outcome. It will not disappoint.<br />I leave you with a bit of insight bestowed upon us by the lovable and amusing Mr. Betteredge:<br />&quot;When my spirits are bad -- Robinson Crusoe. When I want advice -- Robinson Crusoe. In past times when my wife plagued me; in present times when I have had a drop too much -- Robinson Crusoe. I have worn out six stout Robinson Crusoes with hard work in my service. On my lady's last birthday she gave me a seventh. I took a drop too much on the strength of it; and Robinson Crusoe put me right again. Price four shillings and sixpence, bound in blue, with a picture into the bargain. Still, this don't look much like starting the story of the Diamond -- does it? I seem to be wandering off in search of Lord knows what, Lord knows where. We will take a new sheet of paper, if you please, and begin over again, with my best respects to you.&quot;nson Crusoe. In past times when my wife plagued me; in present times when I have had a drop too much -- Robinson Crusoe. I have worn out six stout Robinson Crusoes with hard work in my service. On my lady's last birthday she gave me a seventh. I took a drop too much on the strength of it; and Robinson Crusoe put me right again. Price four shillings and sixpence, bound in blue, with a picture into the bargain. Still, this don't look much like starting the story of the Diamond -- does it? I seem to be wandering off in search of Lord knows what, Lord knows where. We will take a new sheet of paper, if you please, and begin over again, with my best respects to you.&quot;	2004-01-28
US	43810359	R1135NA9V82Y2N	0192833383	424220149	The Moonstone (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	the magnum opus of suspense and intrigue	T.S. Eliot was not exaggerating when he dubbed Collins' masterpiece \\"the first, the longest, and the best of modern English detective novels\\". The Moonstone, first published in 1868, is the magnum opus of suspense and intrigue that will surely please the avid mystery and/or classics buff.<br />The adventure begins when the priceless yellow diamond from India, known as the 'Moonstone', is brought to English as spoils of war and is bestowed upon the spirited Rachel Verrinder on her 18th birthday. Chaos soon commences. The valuable jewel is stolen that very night and the entire household falls under suspicion - including a hunchbacked maid, an assemblage of enigmatic Indian jugglers, and Miss Verrinder's cousin Mr. Franklin Blake. Suspicion of thievery does not even escape Miss Verrinder herself. The famed Sergeant Cuff is summoned to the house to try and make sense of the baffling mystery of the diamond's disappearance and the strange events that ensue.<br />The Moonstone is comprised of three novelettes and a handful of sub-sections, each narrated by three individuals (and a handful of other characters writing shorter supporting memoirs), with their own whimsical writing styles and detailed anecdotes about their adventures surrounding the jewel's disappearance and the aftermath. Their varying perspectives on incidents throw interesting light on the events unraveling around the reader. Introducing the novel is the household's elderly and garrulous manservant, Mr. Gabriel Betteredge, with his witty maxims and proverbial quotes from his personal bible, \\"Robinson Crusoe\\". The pious and almost-fanatical Miss Clack's cold recital of events, is followed soon after by Mr. Franklin Blake's narrative of events, and the mystery's final and most ingenious outcome. It will not disappoint.<br />I leave you with a bit of insight bestowed upon us by the lovable and amusing Mr. Betteredge:<br />\\"When my spirits are bad -- Robinson Crusoe. When I want advice -- Robinson Crusoe. In past times when my wife plagued me; in present times when I have had a drop too much -- Robinson Crusoe. I have worn out six stout Robinson Crusoes with hard work in my service. On my lady's last birthday she gave me a seventh. I took a drop too much on the strength of it; and Robinson Crusoe put me right again. Price four shillings and sixpence, bound in blue, with a picture into the bargain. Still, this don't look much like starting the story of the Diamond -- does it? I seem to be wandering off in search of Lord knows what, Lord knows where. We will take a new sheet of paper, if you please, and begin over again, with my best respects to you.\\"past times when my wife plagued me; in present times when I have had a drop too much -- Robinson Crusoe. I have worn out six stout Robinson Crusoes with hard work in my service. On my lady's last birthday she gave me a seventh. I took a drop too much on the strength of it; and Robinson Crusoe put me right again. Price four shillings and sixpence, bound in blue, with a picture into the bargain. Still, this don't look much like starting the story of the Diamond -- does it? I seem to be wandering off in search of Lord knows what, Lord knows where. We will take a new sheet of paper, if you please, and begin over again, with my best respects to you.\\"	2004-01-28
US	43810359	R10Y0SZE4OXIBM	0553296981	636860937	Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl	Books	5	3	4	N	N	delicacy, calm candor and beauty	Anne Frank's diary has moved millions around the world, past and present, with it's honesty, depth, and poignancy. (Personally, it was Anne's diary that motivated me to write my own journal as a young girl and I continue to write faithfully, ever since. It is one of the few books that I've read which has had the greatest influence on my life.) Anne Frank, a young Jewish girl living in Amsterdam, along with her family, went into hiding along with her family during WWII, when Holland was annexed by the Nazis Regime. During the long years of secret captivity in the building's attic, Anne captured her hopes, loves, fears and thoughts on life in her diary, where she affectionately addressed her entries to an imaginary friend she named \\"Kitty\\".<br />Despite the horrible reality of war just outside her window, Anne was a person who could see beyond man's inhumanity to man, and perceive true beauty and the gift of life. Tragically, nearing the war's conclusion, the family's hiding place is mercilessly betrayed to the Nazis...which ultimately culminates in the final chapter of this lovely young girl's life, just prior to liberation. This is a true story...a diary of a young girl....and her voice from the past. It's a memoir of a brilliant and deep being who wasn't afraid to hope for something better, beyond the misery surrounding her. In my opinion, it is a book that every person should read.<br />It was an overcast day on Saturday, March 9, 2002. I stood just outside of Anne Frank's final dwelling place, the \\"Secret Annex,\\" at Prinsengracht 263, Amsterdam. I was overcome with great sadness as I gazed up at the small attic window where she must have looked out...a tree-lined canal just across the way. Perhaps she watched the ducks in the water, swallows overhead, the steady sloping of the rain, or the cloud formations....day in and day out. I imagined what it would be like to be a young girl in confinement, yearning to enjoy life amidst the free, only to be shut up, and kept quiet for fear that an audible breath would betray my family's whereabouts and terminate our lives. I wept at the great waste of life, the cruelty, the plundering of innocent lives, and how this amazing young woman maintained the inner strength to endure those years...and had the courage to capture it all with such delicacy, calm candor and beauty.quiet for fear that an audible breath would betray my family's whereabouts and terminate our lives. I wept at the great waste of life, the cruelty, the plundering of innocent lives, and how this amazing young woman maintained the inner strength to endure those years...and had the courage to capture it all with such delicacy, calm candor and beauty.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RQWJ378Z1DELR	0312974698	148589839	The Lighthouse Keeper	Books	3	1	1	N	N	touching tear-jerker	Get out your kleenex box! This one is a tear-jerker. A story about an old lighthouse keeper who wishes to pass along his legacy to an only daughter, shortly before his death. The story revolves around his earlier life as a simple Irish immigrant, sent off to Europe in WWII, the tragedies of his young life, and how he came to be the lighthouse keeper. A story of love lost, which is ultimately regained. The ending is a bit farfetched, in my opinion, yet the story itself keeps you reading to the end. A touching novel with a social comment...and a new twist on the meaning of a \\"light keeper.\\"	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RML91CSXTOCPF	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Quite possibly the best piece of fiction ever written	A novel I have read and re-read, and will continue to do so with great gusto - every time, falling hopefulessly in love with the characters all over again. It is by far, my favorite.<br />Published in 1813 and premiered under the title First Impressions, Jane Austen's \\"Pride and Prejudice\\" stands as one of the most universally loved and admired novels of English literature. Not only is it a tale of rural romance, but also a witty and shrewdly observed satire of English country life.<br />The story takes place in a remote Hertfordshire village, in George III's England. Mr. Bennett, a country squire of no great means, endeavors to marry off his five vivacious daughters. At the heart of all this all-consuming enterprise are his headstrong second daughter, Elizabeth Bennett and her aristocratic suitor Fitzwilliam Darcy - two lovers whose pride must be humbled and prejudices dissolved before the novel can come to it's splendid conclusion.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R300XMVGX0W40O	0884115259	74639460	Beyond This Place	Books	3	13	14	N	N	good 'weekend reading'	An older friend of mine leant me this book...she has owned it since it's publication date in the 1950s, and it's been one of her favorites. Indeed it was quite a captivating novel. A tad bit 'weak' at the outset, but as the story moved along, the plot thickened - and it evolved into a real page-turner.<br />A young man learns the story behind his father whom he was told had died long ago. Through his own investigations, the son finds that his father was wrongly convicted of a brutal murder 16 years earlier due to a miscarriage of justice, and was sentenced to life in prison.  The son learns the father is still in prison and has already served 15 years of his life sentence. After learning the facts, the son strives to clear his father's name. He eventually exposes a cover up by the police and the political system, which sought to frame his father for the horrible crime. I won't spoil the ending for you, but suffice it to say it was relatively a satisfying one.<br />I must admit there were some occurrences in the novel which seemed a bit dubious, however, nothing overtly outlandish took place that drew attention away from the story line. I would've liked a bit more characterization of some of the secondary characters - you don't learn too much about the way their minds work. You're also left wondering about the fate of some of the characters. For example, the boy's mother - who received almost ALL the focus at the outset, seemed to 'disappear' near the ending of the book.<br />However, I must say, overall it was well written in my opinion. This book was not heavy reading - it's one you're able to finish in a couple days...a good \\"weekend novel.\\"	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RB4Y25V8E3Y5P	0451525264	996904481	Les Miserables	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A timeless classic!	The drama of Les Miserables unfolds in France during the French Revolution. It is a story that exudes both tragedy and hope...love and hate...and the belief that everyone can start over with a `clean slate' if they have the courage and willpower to do so.<br />At the outset we are introduced to the main character, Jean Valjean, an atoned convict who reverses his wrong course in life and eventually develops into the benevolent and gentle Mayor of Montreuil (a prosperous small town in France).<br />Inspector Javert, who served as Valjean's prison guard decades ago in Paris, moves to the town of Vigo. Much to Valjean's dismay, Javert eventually recognizes the Mayor as an ex-convict. From then on, Inspector Javert swears revenge against Valjean - seeking to expose him as an ex-convict and have him taken into custody. This is in keeping with Javert's personal maxim: \\"once bad, always bad.\\"<br />After Valjean realizes Javert has recognized him, he goes into hiding after being entrusted with the care of a young orphan girl. Valjean and the little girl, who he raises as a daughter, restart a life of anonymity away from the bitter Javert (who will stop at nothing to recapture Valjean).<br />Almost a decade later, the obsessed Javert again catches up with Valjean and the reader is brought along on the adventure to a poignant culmination.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R33C71QHJBXRZO	0679731148	669003939	A Year in Provence	Books	5	0	0	N	N	witty anecdotes and eccentric antics make a winning combo!	Surrender to the quintessence of Provence! \\"A Year In Provence\\" chronicles Mayle's real-life experiences following his family's (wife and dogs) move from England to Provence. Their pages offer an entertaining and light-hearted narrative of everyday life -- the people, the climate, the landscapes, and mainly the acclaimed Provençal art of eating! -- from the perspective of a British \\"long-term tourist\\" (as Mayle puts it). The Provence series is usually located in the \\"Travel\\" section at most bookstores; yet the discriminating reader will happily discover that these are more novel than guide. Mayle's storey-telling skills are top-notch and keep you reading until the book is done. This, coupled with his clever facetiousness, is a winning combination. Any avid fan of \\"dry British humour\\" will enjoy Mayle's witty anecdotes as he puzzles over the sometimes eccentric antics of his Provençal neighbours. These two gems, \\"A Year in Provence\\" and it's sequal \\"Toujour Provence\\", are amongst the prized possessions in my bookshelf!	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R2R8D0WCR7AMLT	038533303X	230034308	Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain	Books	4	4	5	N	N	a truly entertaining anecdote	The weighty equation E=mc2 and the theory of relativity, conjure up images of a wiry-haired wrinkled old genius known to the world as Einstein. The author, Paterniti, mixes his own equation with words. The result? More than just a relative success, \\"Driving Mr. Albert\\" is a light and amiable concoction of humor, eccentricity, wit, poignancy, as well as raw and often highly amusing observation.<br />The ever-curious journalist (Paterniti) researches and finally meets Dr. Harvey, the mortician who performed the autopsy on Einstein in 1955. Scandal ensued when Harvey absconded and ultimately \\"disappeared\\" with the brain of the genius himself, claiming to be doing scientific studies to assertain if there were any unique facets to it. As Paterniti and Harvey's worlds collide, the result is far from prosaic.<br />Paterniti writes with such a personal flourish of his own, I was instantly captivated and found myself a passenger aboard his eccentric cross-country pilgrimage with Dr. Harvey and their third \\"passenger\\", Einstein's brain (bobbing in a formaldehyde-filled Tupperware container stowed in the trunk).<br />\\"Driving Mr. Albert\\" is the embodiment of the clich&eacute;: it's not the destination, but the journey that counts. As Paterniti and Harvey bomb towards California in a rented Skylark to rendezvous with Einstein's granddaughter, Evelyn, the author not only ascertains much about the contradictory persona of Einstein, and Dr. Harvey's fascinating life, but also about his own existence. The words I absorbed enraptured me in laughter, had me strolling down my own memory lane, and brought me near to tears during unexpected poignant scenes. The story and the intriguingly vivid characters, coupled with Paterniti's descriptive rhetoric made for an utterly arresting read. It's also makes for wonderful light weekend reading, as it's mere 211 pages will attest, and can be finished in a few sittings. With a plethora of these factors in its favor, I would not hesitate recommending \\"Driving Mr. Albert\\" to anyone who enjoys a truly entertaining anecdote, both deep and humorous.g \\"Driving Mr. Albert\\" to anyone who enjoys a truly entertaining anecdote, both deep and humorous.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R39745P5BSB73E	0060987049	70030622	Microserfs	Books	5	0	0	N	N	take a walk on the geek side	Coupland's &quot;mircroserfs&quot; was a switch from the what I normally read, yet the change was not an unwelcome one - rather refreshing! It is written by Douglas Coupland, the Canadian author best known for coining the term Generation X.<br />The novel is narrated in the form of a journal (which in itself is appealing to me) penned by the main character, Dan Underwood (26). To set the scene, the journal starts in the fall of 1993. Underwood serves as a computer programmer for Microsoft. The entertaining plot revolves around the misadventures of he and his fellow code-crunching computer whizzes. These self-professed 'geeks', obsessed with lego, and who often lament their lack of a social life, board together at a Microsoft &quot;dorm&quot;.<br />Otherwise known as &quot;microserfs&quot;, they spend 16-hour days coding, eating &quot;flat&quot; foods (ie. Kraft singles or fruit rollups, which are often passed underneath closed doors), and checking/sending email. Seizing the chance to be innovators and wanting to escape their Bill-run world, this intrepid bunch of quirky coders strike out on their own, as they form a high-tech gaming software company named Oop! located in Silicon Valley.<br />Spanning about 2 years, the novel lends us the complex and often hilarious story of what it's like for these coders, living together in a sort of digital flophouse as they desperately try to &quot;get a life&quot; and find love amid the dislocated, subhuman whir and buzz of their digitally-driven world.<br />I find Coupland's wit modern, funny, to-the-point and often thought-provoking. The novel itself is comical, illuminating and ultimately poignant. Indeed, literal tears welled up at the conclusion, which was an unexpectedly touching one. Admittedly, it is not a novel I would recommend to just anyone. Yet it is definitely a novel I personally wouldn't want to do without.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R2U1XWUI7SNFX4	0888945892	778894811	Saxophone Winter	Books	4	1	1	N	N	uncluttered poignancy	Soon after I delved into Saxophone Winter's depths, I was unable to put the book down until I was well into it's story. What is the driving force behind this engaging novel? Sheer simplicity and the convincing thought processes of believable characters.<br />Harlow poetically depicts the life of a 14-year-old boy growing up in a small town located in British Columbia during the winter of 1930-1931. The reader is quickly drawn into Christopher Waterton's changing social environment as he undergoes his difficult and, often times, confusing metamorphosis to maturity. Throughout the novel, Christopher undergoes great change as he is confronted with life's hurtles. Meanwhile he struggles to cover new ground - perfecting his new found interest, his saxophone; his first love (Emily Gordon); peer pressure at school; and mounting family problems - all encompassed by a changing world scene on the brink of war.<br />&quot;The Saxophone Winter&quot; possesses an uncluttered poignancy that makes it unforgettable. It will appeal to readers of varying ages - the young, who may be encountering similar experiences and can relate to the foreboding frontier of growing up - or the more mature, who can look back wistfully on their past as they flip through Harlow's masterpiece.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R12X3ZCZ058FGF	0771061110	602849806	Who Has Seen the Wind	Books	4	4	4	N	N	initiation into the mysteries of life	If it be a no-brainer adventure or a plot full of relentless debauchery you're looking for, I suggest you avoid this book entirely. However, if you seek a deeply touching novel of intelligence and substance, indeed I urge you to read \\"Who Has Seen The Wind\\". It portrays the story of a prairie boy's initiation into the mysteries of life, as he discovers death, God, and the spirit that moves through everything: the wind. The plot details the little things in life that most of the masses overlook, and accurately relates the expressions and deep feelings of a young person growing up during the Great Depression. At the time I read it in school I could relate very easily to the primary character, Brian O'Connal. The novel's greatest strengths lie in its sensitive evocations of Brian's feelings, sometimes associated with his various experiences of death, sometimes with a child's fundamental, inarticulate but insistent curiosity to discover the world within and beyond himself. I was lost in the character's maturation and progression as a person. It is truly a book I will never forget. \\"Who Has Seen The Wind\\" definitely has contributed to the way I looked at life in general, as a young person at the time.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R1WCP2GBO3CGVD	0934601755	457251830	Song of Daniel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	a touching story	... I set out to read one of his earlier novels - a touching piece entitled The Song of Daniel. It was a very heartfelt and sincere story about a young man named Daniel Mitchell, living in a world of his own. It was a peaceful life - an escape from reality that he created for himself, after he had been exposed to unspeakable violence in his early childhood. This realm of Daniel's remains untouched, until he meets worldly and somewhat cynical Rebecca. As a result, they learn much from each other. In this masterpiece, Williams has conveyed Daniel's thoughts, vulnerabilities, and deepest fears with such an indescribable intricacy that puts us in his shoes. Finally Daniel deals with the uprising of his past in his own way. I really enjoyed this book.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R8VTMII16NRE	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	an unforgettable legend	&quot;Pope Joan&quot; is truly a page-turning epic that will keep you reading until your done. Extremely well researched and detailed! Albiet, it's not a tale for the faint-hearted, as it deals (often in gruesome detail) with the attrocities which occurred in ignorance during the Dark Age. The victims of such ignorance, were usually women, who were treated as less than human. However, it is a book which most history-buffs and avid readers alike will be interested in, as it is intertwined with real life settings - and an unforgettable legend of a determined woman's triumph.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R217I5C1RRAD21	0192833588	569473707	Sense and Sensibility (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	&quot;Slowly &amp; Surely&quot;	The truth is...I cannot esteem it as well as I should like. It can't be explained in entirety, but I find the novel noticeably lack-luster after reading Austen's other outstanding novels. A plethora of secondary characters and sub-plots choke out a lot of the brilliance of its main characters. This is a rather surprising realization for me, being an avid Austen fan - but it is spoken with all honesty. Nevertheless, even though it is not Austen's best written work, it is still a very amiable novel and a nice light read for any classics buff.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RPUSOKDA03F26	0553609416	444133547	Anne of Green Gables, Complete 8-Book Box Set: Anne of Green Gables; Anne of the Island; Anne of Avonlea; Anne of Windy Poplar; Anne's House of ... Ingleside; Rainbow Valley; Rilla of Ingleside	Books	5	2	2	N	N	life lesson of a fiery lovable red-head	This beautifully written series revolves around the small-town adventures of talkative 13-year-old, Anne Shirley. After being in and out of orphanages her entire youth and unloved by her previous adopters, Anne is finally taken in by two elderly residents of Prince Edward Island - compassionate, shy Matthew Cuthbert and his austere (but ultimately soft-hearted) sister, Marilla. The story takes place in the early 1900's. Anne, the imaginative scatterbrained girl who thinks her \\"red hair is a curse\\", treats the reader to a humorous and touching story as she grows up in the loving Cuthbert home. Anne enjoys wonderful times with her new-found kindred spirit, Diana; makes several rehearsed apologies to the town gossip Mrs. Lynd; and is put to the test when her sworn competitor at school Gilbert Blythe, eventually falls head over heels for her.<br />We see Anne transform from an awkward and imaginative fiery redhead, with a temper to match her hair...into a mature and successful writer/teacher, who still has a flare for dreaming, and getting into sticky predicaments no matter where she goes.<br />The reader is taught many life lessons vicariously, as Anne develops into a more mature and rich character: We learn that to dream and to imagine is to live; to never to lose sight of where we come from and who we are; to never give up hope in attaining a dream; and...to love and appreciate those that are dear to us while we are yet together. Anne also teaches us that sometimes the most wonderful dreams are closer to home than we may think. It is no surprise that Lucy Maud Montgomery has touched hearts world-wide with her beloved Anne girl.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RCAGEHK7XPEN1	014044615X	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	true symphony between justice and revenge	\\"The Count of Monte Cristo\\" is an intriguing tale of retribution. The complex and rivetting plot revolves around Edmond Dantes, a idealistic and principled young man who is unwittingly framed for a serious crime, and sentenced to spend the rest of his life in prison. There he meets a man who will change his life...and point him towards freedom and his means of vengeance on those who have wronged him. Without a doubt, this novel is a masterpiece, attaining the balance of true symphony between justice and revenge. The characterization and atmosphere portrayed is rich enough to evoke anyone's imagination. Dumas' attention to detail adds to the ambiance and vivacity of the tale. As a fitting testament to it's nearly be rushed, rather savored. The unabridged version (875 pages) is a must, with its banquet of flavorful scenes - it is a full course meal for any hungry bookworm - the abridged version is merely a buttered cracker. \\"The Count of Monte Cristo\\" is one of my most treasured novel and, without hesitation, by far the best book I have ever read! I stand by this opinion so ardently, that I always keep extra copies of it in my bookshelf, in case I meet with someone who will really appreciate it. Avid readers, enjoy!	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R18ATK7HFQ7PJ1	0060194995	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A book everyone should read	Like most young ones my age, I read and studied \\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\" in junior high school. But this story has stuck with me through the years, and every time I flip through it's pages, I look back on it with affection. This classic tale of courage and altruism is timeless.<br />It is the early 1950's in the southern states. A highly respected small-town lawyer decides to take on a case defending a framed African American man, although he knows he will not win the trial. The lawyer must face the ridicule of the town's folk, and racists in his community who seek to have the framed man killed.<br />In the meantime, the lawyer's two children (Scout and Jem) get entangled in the age-long mystery of Boo Radley, their mysterious next door neighbor who no one has seen for years...and who no one seems to understand.<br />\\"To Kill A Mockingbird\\" is a touching story full of life-lessons, one of which proves that fighting a losing battle may be difficult, but \\"good\\" will ultimately triumph if you stand up for what you know to be right and true.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R2C7VVBBDKUQ12	0679764925	89898104	Quite a Year for Plums: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Whimsical and witty	Whimsical and witty...two words I would definitely not hesitate to use in description of this enjoyable little novel by Bailey White. Quite A Year For Plums dwells on the slightly off-center antics of small-town citizens in south Georgia, and boasts an array of characters who breathe life into every-day occurrences. There's Roger, a quiet peanut pathologist who is a bit of an unlikely hometown celebrity. There's Meade and Eula, two elderly spinsters who believe it is their sole purpose in life to protect \\"their\\" Roger from having his heart broken...again. Then there's somewhat subdued and eccentric Della -an artist who is obsessed with painting painstakingly detailed portraits of birds- who Roger falls head over peanuts for. Without even meeting Della, the peanut pathologist is captivated by the mysterious yet practical notes the artist leaves on the perfectly useful things she leaves at the community dump. There's not much else to say about Plums except that I thoroughly enjoyed every bit of this simple yet touching novel. It honestly put a smile on my face with nearly every turn of the page and had me saying to myself almost enviously, \\"Why couldn't I have thought of that?\\"	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R9ZEX12I23JWZ	031852015X	524410290	La Prisonniere (in French) (French Edition)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A captivating testimony of tribulation and hope	A story of great courage and love and freedom lost. Malika recounts her family's fate with much candor, and eloquent simplicity that captivates you immediately. The Oufkir's family ties saw them through some of the most inhumane treatment one can imagine. I highly recommend this book.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R353WQ9IJOQ6S9	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Captivating	It is not a coincidence that I read this touching novel while abroad in Holland. I felt it would've added much to the story, being in the country of it's setting. And so it did! I couldn't put the book down as much I tried. (So much for sleep!) The story revolves around 14-year-old Griet, the daughter of a tile maker in 17th century Holland. When her father is blinded and no longer able to care for his family's needs, Griet must find work to support the family. She obtains employment as a servant in the Vermeer household, with the famous Dutch artist Johanne Vermeer as her employer. The story is beautifully written, as seen through Griet's eyes - the complex family she is thrust into the midst of, the society of the small town of Delft, and life with an obsessive artistic genius. Griet loves being drawn into Vermeer's abstract life and ultimately becomes one of his models - as the &quot;girl with a pearl earring.&quot; A fascinating novel that I would highly recommend to history-related fiction buffs, or anyone who is just plain interested in a personal and touching tale.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R2VFPDR25CT8CY	0140287825	977269962	Death in Summer	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Lukewarm and lacking depth	Trevor's \\"Death in Summer\\" is a well-written but odd story to which I found myself somewhat indifferent.<br />Set in contemporary rural England, the outset of the tale revolves around two young people released into the world, recently discharged from a kind of asylum for young people, The Morning Star. We aren't told exactly what kind of institution but I'm assuming it was a mental institution of some sort, based on the characters' memories of it. After living in an abandoned shack following their release, the boy and the girl who have grown up as friends, try to build normal lives in society. Albert, responsible, kind and sensitive, secures a job washing grafiti off walls and boarding with a middle-aged invalid, as her live-in caretaker. While Pettie, impressionable, brooding, flighty, and prone to acts of petty thievery, decides to apply for a nanny position at a manor - the home of wealthy widower Thaddeus Davenant and his small infant daughter. When Thaddeus' mother-in-law decides to move into the manor to care for the child, there is no longer a need for a nanny. Unstable and imagining herself in love with Thaddeus (who she has only met once), Pettie sets out to prove her love and compassion for him and the infant...in a somewhat distorted way. Albert is instinctively protective of his vulnerable friend Pettie, and ultimately tries to help her out of the desperate situation she soon finds herself in.<br />As the story unraveled in third-person, the reader is afforded a glimpse into each character mind. Since two of the main characters are afflicted with mental infirmities, the barrage thoughts and their purposes can get a bit confusing. The reader may also find the dialogue and certain details a bit puzzling at times, if they are unfamiliar with certain English sayings or allusions.<br />Aside from it's unique perspective, \\"Death in Summer\\" exhibited an over abundance of unnecessary information, thoughts and observations which often detracted from the thought at hand, and diverted any interest I may have had in a current scene or plot turn in the novel. Granted, it was not a \\"dull\\" read, but not an overly memorable one either...\\"lukewarm\\" comes to mind. I feel the storyline itself had a lot of potential that could have been further developed into something more rich and impressive. It failed to involve and capture me.ght at hand, and diverted any interest I may have had in a current scene or plot turn in the novel. Granted, it was not a \\"dull\\" read, but not an overly memorable one either...\\"lukewarm\\" comes to mind. I feel the storyline itself had a lot of potential that could have been further developed into something more rich and impressive. It failed to involve and capture me.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R1SG0QC207X59J	0679762698	539544634	Encore Provence: New Adventures in the South of France	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Amusing yet falls short of the mark	Another success in non-fiction, &quot;Encore Provence&quot; is agile and amusing (aren't all of Mayle's works?). The author takes a bit of an off-the-path route in Encore, opting to focus more on tourist attractions and eating establishments, rather than chronicling his actual experiences with Provençal life. The book ventures beyond the confines of Provence and into the surrounding areas. Suffice it to say, it is more of a lavish tourist guide and less of a novel.<br />Granted, it makes very agreeable reading. In my humble opinion, however, &quot;Encore&quot; doesn't reach the brilliant apex of Mayle's previous two masterpieces: &quot;A Year in Provence&quot;, and &quot;Toujour Provence&quot;, both of which I found equally enjoying. Regrettably, &quot;Encore&quot; definitely lacks the pinnace of its predecessors.<br />Nonetheless, it's redeeming qualities are still evident in it's many entertaining anecdotes, and it's indisputably informative pages when it came to \\"touristy\\" points of interest (to those who long to know the *real* Provence).	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R3SSIS45AUCIJY	0967936659	512405853	Facing The Lion: Memoirs of a Young Girl in Nazi Europe	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A testimony to faith	In just a matter of days, I've completed reading what I consider to be one of the most moving books I have ever had the privilege of reading. It touched me deeply, personally...beyond mere words.<br /><br />\\"Facing The Lions\\" is an autobiography written in the voice of a young girl, Simone Arnold. Growing up in Alsace (a location on the French/German border), Simone is an astute and happy child surrounded by a close-knit and loving family. In time, her parents become Jehovah's Witnesses and Simone too makes the personal decision to embrace the faith with a fiery zeal and enduring fervor beyond her years, that would make any parent swell with pride.<br /><br />However, WWII is just around the corner, and trouble strikes when the Nazis annex the bordering French territory of Alsace, the home of the Arnold family. The Bibelforscher (Jehovah's Witnesses or \\"Bible Students\\" or as they were known then) in all of Nazi Europe are quickly put under ban.<br /><br />Being conscientious objectors in line with the scriptures' admonition \\"You must not murder\\", the steadfast Bible Students did not support the war effort in any way whatsoever. They refused to \\"Heil Hitler\\". As a result of their bible-based beliefs and their neutral standing, thousands of Jehovah's Witnesses were sent to concentration camps to suffer cruelly at the hands of the Nazi regime. Even though the Bibelforscher were given the opportunity to be released if they \\"simply\\" renounced their faith by signing a legal document, these ones remained steadfast and unmovable. Because of their unbreakable allegiance to God alone, and not the state, they became targets of the Nazis' rage and even their fellow citizens. However, their beliefs and firm reliance on Jehovah God helped these students of the Bible endure the oppression of the camps, some even to the point of death.<br /><br />As unwavering \\"Bibelforscher\\", the Arnold family was not immune to such horrors of the war machine. Soon after the war's outset, Simone's father is arrested and is taken away to the Dachau concentration camp and thereafter the infamous Mauthausen. Shortly after Simone is extradited to a strict Nazi reform school, her mother and aunt are also deported to the Schirmeck and Gaggenau camps.<br /><br />\\"Facing The Lions\\" is full of heart-rending experiences as Simone recounts physical and mental abuse at the reform school by those who outwardly and secretly conspired to break her spirit. Yet, Simone maintains her strong faith amidst such persecution, and throughout maintains her spiritual and moral conviction. Excerpts from personal letters, documents, photographs of family and detailed drawings by the author herself serve to personalize the events, making for a poignant vicarious experience.<br /><br />Inspiring, encouraging...this moving life story of a courageous and steadfast young girl has added to my respect and admiration of my rich spiritual heritage; and to all those, including Simone and her family, who struggled courageously to endure man's inhumanity to man.is arrested and is taken away to the Dachau concentration camp and thereafter the infamous Mauthausen. Shortly after Simone is extradited to a strict Nazi reform school, her mother and aunt are also deported to the Schirmeck and Gaggenau camps.  <BR><BR>\\"Facing The Lions\\" is full of heart-rending experiences as Simone recounts physical and mental abuse at the reform school by those who outwardly and secretly conspired to break her spirit. Yet, Simone maintains her strong faith amidst such persecution, and throughout maintains her spiritual and moral conviction. Excerpts from personal letters, documents, photographs of family and detailed drawings by the author herself serve to personalize the events, making for a poignant vicarious experience. <BR><BR>Inspiring, encouraging...this moving life story of a courageous and steadfast young girl has added to my respect and admiration of my rich spiritual heritage; and to all those, including Simone and her family, who struggled courageously to endure man's inhumanity to man.	2003-05-20
US	43810359	R28FW6N3O21LDC	1885705026	30470303	Please Understand Me II: Temperament, Character, Intelligence	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a new outlook	A book and personality test that will change how you see yourself and others, in a positive and astounding way. I have never read or taken a personality test that has pegged me so accurately, nor has explained psychological concepts with such \\"detailed simplicity\\"!<br />Kudos to Mr. Keirsey for his amazing temperament sorter which gives great insight into the complex human persona. (By the way, I'm INFJ)	2003-05-20
US	43810359	RLCJAEPXEW9T2	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Disappointingly lackluster and 2-dimensional	Reading Palliser's first epic, 'The Quincunx', is a bit like fishing - it requires a great deal of patience (and a good memory wouldn't hurt either). Whether or not the \\"catch de jour\\" is worth all the effort or not is entirely another story.<br /><br />Quincunx is a sprawling and ambitious drama set in early 19th century England. It takes the form of a narrative from the perspective of a young man who endures ruthless betrayal and misuse at the hands of countless relatives, with hopes of despoiling his inheritance. The plot is duly peppered with plenty of twists and turns, capable of confusing and puzzling even the most avid of bookworms.<br /><br />Granted, Palliser has obviously done his homework. Throughout the novel, he skillfully sets the scene with remarkable detail - sometimes too much so. As a result I found the actual story to be implausible and lacking any real depth, giving it a somewhat two-dimensional ambiance, amidst all of it's rich detail. With all the unnecessary minutiae, secondary characters, and behind-the-scene goings-on, Palliser easily lost the \\"heart\\" of the plot.<br /><br />All in all, I feel Quincunx is a bit too overdone for my literary taste. I prefer the subtle and mysterious to the blatant fanfare of melodramatic storytelling. It failed to connect with me on pretty much every level.<br /><br />Palliser has been hailed as the next Charles Dickens, but I honestly fail to see any striking resemblance in style to evoke such a worthy comparison. Quincunx was disappointingly lackluster...a mediocre read at best. Nevertheless, I can justify giving it a 3 star rating for Palliser's fine attention to detail, if nothing else.	2003-05-16
US	43810359	R2YU9CITEYD0DH	1888106832	515291300	Jackals In Iron	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Impressive rich detail!	Larsen's Jackals in Iron is a \\"must read\\" for the avid history buff and for those who have a hankering for distinguished story-telling at it's best. In impressive rich detail, every turn of the page expounds the history of the Norman incursion of England amongst other notable battles, chronicling the lives and actions of heroes, miscreants and citizens caught in the middle of life-altering movements of nations.<br />At the outset of the novel  (1100 A.D.), we become acquainted with the principal character - Count Guy of Ponthieu - a \\"worldly hardened warrior\\" advanced in age and held in high esteem by his comrades. Along with his youthful wife Estelle, the Count is invited on a sojourn to the abbey of Saint-Evroult, to recount his life experiences, scribed for posterity by the monks residing there. As he relates his past in detail (the atrocities committed during war, the conquests, the family conflicts, and the inner battles, etc.) to the eager party of copyists, we are treated to a retroactive narrative. We become deeply entrenched in the Count's read-worthy experiences, and consequences of his past decisions.<br />The reader is also generously provided with a glossary of terms, as well as lineage flow charts and maps, which I personally found very helpful in better understanding certain details of the story. They also added much the richness of the read. Without a doubt, the extensive detail and research that must have gone into penning such a novel will astound even the most picky of history aficionados.<br />Larsen unquestionably deserves the sincerest of kudos for this masterpiece. Jackals in Iron is highly recommended for those who prefer a more `meatier' read that is most enjoyable	2002-08-04
US	43810359	R1UWR2GAQ0JEXF	1563523655	264475806	The True and Authentic History of Jenny Dorset: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	History coupled with charming wit	Williams' ambitious novel The True &amp; Authentic History of Jenny Dorset is a refreshing medley of life in Charleston's 18th century, seasoned tastily with charming wit and intriguing characters. A truly enjoyable read, the tale is written with a sincere flare and comes alive to the reader.<br />More notably is the method in which Williams characterizes each member of the families involved in the story's plot - from the dueling heads, Mr. Dorset and Mr. Smythe, to Old Bob in his amusing stages of senility, and the ostentatious Jenny Dorset herself.<br />The reader will undoubtedly find the rich story line is highly entertaining, and written in a very lively manner. The tale is penned from the perspective of Henry Hawthorne, the Dorset's discerning and subdued family man servant. Hawthorne patiently abides by the family's somewhat eccentric and unruly lifestyle, and writes about his experiences first-hand, in memoir-like style.<br />Indeed, this novel is a great story-tellers' delight! The True &amp; Authentic History of Jenny Dorset manifests very engaging humour with every flip of a page - more than once have I been in the throws of violent chuckles over it's whimsical comments and situations. It has quickly grown to be one of my favorites. I highly recommend it.	2001-05-28
