US	43846301	R1QYA24ZSDAMQK	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	complete	The Half Blood Prince came through in dramatic fashion. The six book in the Potter saga did what was needed by bridging the story to reach the concluding book. Some have called this the dark book in the series and they may have ample reason. Voldermot's dark past is revealed, you get an inside look at the depth of Snape's character and what forces drive him, Draco reaches new lows, and death again hits a beloved character.   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />However, the story also has a fair share of love, friendship, and loyalty. You can't help but feel the tension between the teenagers as they try to figure out this thing called love.  The build up is beautifully done between Ron and Herimone and its hard not to root for them to get together as you watch them go through different twists and turns. There is also a chemistry between Harry and a girl that really begins to evolve.   <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />Friendship plays a pivotal role in this book. Harry learns to trust those closest to him and whom not to trust. Dealing with his nervousness on the quidditch field, Ron gets help from those around him. And Snape and Malfoy share an apparent beneficial relationship. Who to actually trust is an ongoing question throughout the book and culminates in an exciting dramatic ending.       <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />The one thing that continues to impresses me about the whole Potter series is Rowling's attention to detail. She definitely has thought out how each character would act and react. Also she has done a fabulous job following through with plot lines and keeping a logical integrity to the entire story. This book is full of details and information needed to accurately propel the story. A great read.          <br /> <br />  <br /> <br />	2005-07-18
US	43846301	RRJLSP7TNL4N	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brings history  to life	From my experience, very rarely will a history book produce effects and feelings similarly found in movies or tv. Visual stimulation is usually high on the drama and theatrical effects, whereas books tend to be more detailed and historically accurate. But this account succeeds in both aspects.  <br /> <br />The characters jump off the pages and come to life. You get great insights into the way life was back then and how we managed to fight the war with a lack of experience, men, and arsenal. You get a great appreciation for what Americans (well not even Americans yet) went though. Men with very little military experience were asked to step up and lead a revolt against all odds.  <br /> <br />A well written, historically sound read with some parts, specifically some quotes, that were found in the Benjamin Franklin biography. All in all worth the time to read but if your not a die hard historian you may wait and see if comes out in paperback.  <br />	2005-07-11
US	43846301	R1HA57EX0UU0ZG	037550785X	451240111	American Brutus: John Wilkes Booth and the Lincoln Conspiracies	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great for history lovers	A comprehensive look into the Lincoln assassination that answers many questions. The book starts off great, covering all the details in the moments before and after the assassination. In fact, that is the one thing this book may have too much off: detail. In the middle it sort of drags as the author gets caught up in describing the intricate details and background of characters who really have little importance in the assassination story.  <br /> <br />However, the book answered all of my questions. How Booth got through the security to Lincoln (sadly there was little), how he eluded capture for several days, the role others played and how deep the conspiracy went? Most importantly it answered definitively that Booth did get killed near a farm house putting to rest the myth that he escaped the barn and somehow managed to live out of his live elsewhere.  <br /> <br />The book is filled with interesting tidbits such as President Johnson creating the secret service in 1865 following the assassination even though the SS were not assigned to presidential security until 1901. If you want an insight into the psyche of Booth this book is for you. If you are looking for a more dramatic approach with theories and suggestion this book may not be best for you.            <br />	2005-07-02
US	43846301	RESITA9MI67JF	0312284659	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say In America	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Loaded with cool tidbits and facts	This book is great. A must have to use as a reference book because there are numerous quotes that are hard to find elsewhere. Elder devotes much of the book to issue of racism  (the first chapter takes up about a 1/4 of the books space.) But Elder ties it in wonderfully with other issues he touches upon. Try the book. Read it if you are liberal with an open mind, you might be suprised about what you learn.	2004-06-05
US	43846301	R2LUTEUZO4636G	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Entertaining	This is a great book that is worth reading. The whole concept regarding DaVinci is very intriguing and you do not run cross many dull moments in the story. The whole ordeal makes you wonder and think about what may have happened. Some people have a problem regarding some of the facts presented but readers must keep in mind that this book is fiction, not meant to be taken as fact.<br />Its a great novel full of action and suspense. I have not read any other works by Dan Brown, but may start now.	2004-03-30
US	43846301	R2HM4DQNH4HA49	034545040X	495583167	Rocks of Ages: Science and Religion in the Fullness of Life	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Not much new material	This book was not the great for me, mainly because most of the materials covered are addressed in his books like Ever Since Darwin, Bully for Brontosaurs, and It's a Wonderful Life. If you have not read some of those works then this would be great. <br />Gould finally shows some emotion when he comes right out and says creationists have never contributed anything to science and are not scientists. He has mentioned similar epithets elsewhere, but not to this degree. I wondered though, while reading those quotes how Gould accepted that one of his best students, Kurt Wise, is not only a creationist but a YEC. Gould comments about Darwin and his views up until his death and how Darwin's view remained, as far as anyone knows, intact. Further I wonder, though, if Gould ever had any second thoughts about his views before his death.	2004-03-25
US	43846301	RYO8SH06PVMP4	076790303X	102149219	The Science of God: The Convergence of Scientific and Biblical Wisdom	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Great subject to attempt to tackle	Not one of his best books. I thought the hidden face of God was much better for the money. Schroeder sympathizes with the intelligent design movement and makes a compelling case for his cause from a theological standpoint. For Schroeder, the mind can be converted into energy and energy can then be converted into mass. This is the next great step in physics and is just a few years before discovering the path for this venture. However there is much speculation and little evidence to back up the claims presented. The book is often lax on supportive evidence and testimony. <br /> Schroeder believes physics will drastically change in the following years but his revolutionary view ends with that subject. Schroeder seems to blindly accept many other avenues without fail, such as geological dating, human evolution, and even embryology. Subjects which have much more subjective and questions marks. Further Schroeder's rational for doing so is not much more than simply accepting the status quo. His whole argument, for instance, against YEC and Noah's flood revolve around dated writing tablets. Schroeder argues the flood could not have altered dating schemes because certain writing pieces are dated at 10,000ys old. This is simply flawed reasoning and can be explain by skewed dates produced because of the flood.   <br /> There were several chapters were Schroeder went off topic and started going on some tirade. The chapter on free will was interesting but I expected more. His chapter on randomness and how mathematically evolution has many problems was very detailed. I thought that his take on Adam being the first human with a soul was an interesting way of interpreting genesis. A tough topic to cover, but Schroeder does ok.	2004-03-25
US	43846301	R1293NZC0O5K4J	0465044263	772988533	What Evolution Is (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	8	26	N	N	In depth look at evolution	This book covers almost every aspect of evolution. A good book for understanding darwinism and evolution. This book is written for people of various backgrounds. Moreover, the charts and text boxes are used in a manner that add substance to the book. The second appendix is awesome. Twenty tough questions about evolution are asked, including questions such as: is darwinism  a dogma and is evolution a scientific fact. The answers though are less than convincing and tend to sidestep the questions.<br />Mayr has some of the best material on speciation that I have read. In this book, Mayr covers issues such as human evolution, macroevoution, natural selection, variational evolution, mutations, etc. He goes in depth but not so much so that laymen cannot follow. <br />Overall, the author has written a good book. Problems revolve around Mayr's refusal to adapt his writings and beliefs to  current facts. In other words, Mayr still argues that the fossil record is the best evidence for evolution. A fossil record showing stasis best illustrates evolution??? Is not this the ultimate display of blind faith. Horse evolution is the most complete picture of evolution?!? WOW! <br />Maybe Mayr has grown hardheaded in his age and needs to keep update with current findings. Further, Mayr says embryology supports darwinism. Haven't we got past this yet? Problems like this show how old myths die hard and prove that perception is actually more important than reality. <br />Buy the book if you want a great reference for what evolution is, just remember when reading that dogma dies hard.	2004-02-12
US	43846301	R2M88IHDUDWOFD	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	9	21	N	N	Great details	This book is great. Inside Olson reveals how Bill Clinton used his final days in office to pardon convicted murders, terrorists, cop killers, family friends, and seemingly anyone else that could afford his pardon. Moreover, she shows how money hungry the Clintons were/are by the blant use of accepting money for bedrooms in the white house, pardons, and nuclear information. This book reveals the shameless acts of the Clintons while in office. The Clintons looted the White House when they left. They took items that were given specifically to the white house, and yet when they left the white house they took them as gifts as there own! <br />     Someone talked about the numbers not being arcuate, that there are better sources out there. But where is Barbara Olson wrong? Where are her numbers wrong?  Is it when she reveals Bill Clinton spent over a ½ billion dollars on trips to other countries while in office? Or is when Olson reveals the 140 people pardoned by Bill? Maybe Olson was wrong when she reported on the 8 million dollar advance Hillary would receive from her book deal? Please! If you are going to proclaim the facts are wrong, at least have enough fortitude to show why. If you are just going to blow smoke, then perhaps you are better off not revealing your name at all. It sure must be nice to remain anonymous when you make claims that has no creditability at all.<BR>   <BR>   Overall, a great book with the main focus on the pardons. It is a shame Mrs. Olson is no longer here today. Her work is really top notch and is worth reading.	2003-05-23
US	43846301	R2DAEKRXJVJTJW	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Moore rage	Moore can be accused of doing several things in this book, but pulling any punches is not one of them. Moore will tell you exactly how he feels, and if you haven't heard from Moore before, be prepared. <br />Moore seems convinced that big businesses are ruining this country and are guilty for many things that are wrong in this world. While he may be right to some extent, his conclusions are not justified in the book. Yes some companies do lie cheat and steal, and yes many republicans support such companies. However does this mean ALL companies are corrupt and ALL Republicans are evil? Hardly, in fact with out big business are country would not be a global power. Without captialism our nation would simple crumble at the world's foot steps. Moore must know this and sadly does not seem to care. Moreover, what is really sad is that this what Moore really wants to happen. After reading this book I come away with the feeling Moore wouldn't mind seeing the US gravel at the footsteps of foregin countries and of the UN. <br />If you enjoy reading strong editorals this book is great. Overall, a well written book that has many interesting views, which is why it has three stars. Constant US bashing and white man bashing gets old. He has some valid points but his conclusions drawn from the data presented does not match.	2003-04-29
US	43846301	R32JVQNL6X9AQG	0385292163	459752409	The Art of War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good points	A book that has lot to share. Although written for a totally different auidence and totally different time, this book is still very useful today. A lot of good tips for going against your competition. Several rules about making sound decisions with a limited amount of knowledge is very comparable in today's buisness economy.<br />Take the time to read this. The book itself is cut up into several parts so you really cannot read it as a novel. However pick it up just for a few seconds here and there and you will be suprised what you pick up.	2003-04-29
US	43846301	R1UNRT8F4H732C	0842332340	871070652	Armageddon: The Cosmic Battle of the Ages (Left Behind #11)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Top notch	The left behind series has everything you could ever want in a novel. A great plot, real identifiable characters, and plenty of drama and action. This book is no different from the others and has plenty of emotion twist and turns to go around. <br />For those who haven't yet read any of the books, do not feel like you cannot read this one or any of the others. The authors always introduce the characters by giving a quick bio before the book begins and the always recap the ending of the last book. In fact I just started with the third book in the series and took off from there. I did go back and read the first two and have since read everybook in the series. <br />Although some parts of Armageddon are rather lengthy, most of the book reads quickly. The suspense leading into the last book is top notch.	2003-04-29
US	43846301	R39XYFWL3CFPBM	0679432965	621445218	My American Journey: An Autobiography	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hard to put down	This book does an excellent job of bringing to light the trials and troubles assoicated with war, and more importantly when we should go to war and why war is neccesary. People in today's social climate need to read this book for the part alone. However this book offers much more.<br />Powell is truly an inspiration. His journey to Sec of State is remarkable,(although this book is only written up to his stint with George Bush Sr and his short relationship with Bill Clinton.) Powell is humble in his approach yet there are times where he sounds off against some of the people he has ran across during his carrer. He reveals a Ronald Regan who was not always there, who listened to Nancy maybe too much, and put to much faith into astrology.<br />Powell stands up for what he thinks right, despite what others say. You get the idea that Powell is neither confident calling himself a Rep or Dem. He is what he is and perhaps, that, more than anything, is why he did not run for president. However, after reading this book I would certainly have no qualms about casting my vote for Powell for President if he ever decides to run. <br />A lengthy book with perhaps too much detail in some parts. Some parts are hard to stay focused in on, however all in all a very good book. One of the best points of the book cover how you must have an objective going into a war. You have to quantify objectives so you know when results are achieved. Iraqi Freedom is an execellent display of this, and perhaps is why this war did what Desert Storm could not: topple Saddam.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R3Q8TEHUNSN2KP	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	5	8	N	N	One of the best books written	CS Lewis has knack for tackling hard complicated subjects with no easy answer and making them appear easy to follow. What really makes this book special is the way any reader of various reading background, whether highly educated or not, can read this book and come away with a new look and understanding on complex issues. Furthermore, you do not have to be a Christian to read this book. Lewis tackles issues that everybody, despite religious veiws, has to deal with.     <br />Subjects such as evil and pain suffering and why the exist are examined. Lewis shows that evil is not a dual entity with goodness. Just like darkness is not a dual entity with light, rather darkness is merely the absence of light. Light can be measured, darkness however cannot be. Darkness is only the absence of light. It is a little harder to visualize goodness and evil on these terms but Lewis does a great job of making the connection. <br />This book is a fast read and is for people of various reading abilities.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R1428CFHPCG51K	1400045088	458212829	The Salmon of Doubt: Hitchhiking the Galaxy One Last Time	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not one of his better books, but still worth while	Anyone who has read Douglas Adams knows that nothing is off limits in his books. Adams has his opinions and is not afaird to share them, which is what makes his book so enjoyable. He takes readers places most other authors do not dream of going, and he does it while giving you many laughs. <br />However this book is not like many of his books, and perhaps that is because it is reallly a collection of several books. The first sections Adams sounds off on various issues, and like him or not, disagree with him or not, you have to respect someone who says what the feel regardless of what others may think. The novel portion of the book is very good, and I was really interested in the storylines and how the charcters evolved.   <br />If you enjoy his sci-fi novels but do not prefer reading political views or arguments, than stick with the Hitchhikers Guide. Read this book if you want to read about who Adams was.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R3QUZCEQUJZ09C	0609601431	601909093	I Have Landed: The End of a Beginning in Natural History	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Gould delivers	I had finally gotten used to Gould's unique style of writting when he happened to pass away. As sad as that is, at least he goes out on top. His last book is one of his better works. <br />Many issues are covered in this book including a perspective of his family coming into the USA, are very interesting. Gould tackles various issues from fossils to Freud's wierd evolutionry ideas to views on science and on the Bible. <br />Gould even tackles problematic issues such as the defintion of evolution and the Kansas school board decision. Gould goes on to mention that various scientific categories define evolution various ways, and that this causes much confusion. Gould is right when he argues that evolution is not progressive, however, he still fails to give an accurate definiton of what evolution means. The Kansas board decision was not to  eliminate evolution from the science classroom, rather the decision was to keep science in the science classroom and remove historical theories from an objective field.       <br />Many good stories covering a wide range of material. If you like this book try Gould's Ever Since Darwin, because IMO it is his best work.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R39F4RNQ5QH83K	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	12	30	N	N	The Woman behind Bill	This book should should be read by anybody who has an interest in Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, or politics. You can disagree with the conclusions of the author, but you cannot ignore the facts Olson presents.  <br />You are taken through the life of Hillary Clinton during which you see her quest for power and her socialist views grow. Further, after seeing the influence Hillary had on Bill and his presidency, you can start to understand why Hillary spent so much time covering their lies, mistakes, and crimes up. She knew that Bill's legacy as a president would influence her and her goal to be president. The infamous line \\"it was a vastright-wing conspiracy\\" was not something she held to be true, rather it was an attempt at damage control. <br />Take the time to read this book. Like Hillary Clinton or not, after reading this book you will have a better understanding of who she actually is and who she hopes to become.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R2J932QFCTLMM2	0393850064	81605241	God and the Astronomers (New and Expanded Edition)	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Well written	Read this book if you have an interest in Astronomy or how astronomy relates to God. Jastrow presents a plausible view for how the universe began. What makes this book special is Jastrow's views on God and on the universe.<br />Robert Jastrow is certainly not a Christan, and never proclaims to be. The God Jastrow argues for is very secular and can accomadate many religions. And perhaps that is the what makes his views special. <br />Much of what Jastrow says about the universe and how it had to have a beginning and a creator is very revealing. Jastrow has some famous quotes in this book that you may have read elsewhere. For this purporse alone the book is worth reading. One of the more famous views comes from his story of a philsopher trying to prove that God does not exist. The philsopher for years has come up against this unbearable mountain called God and just when it appears they are read to scale the mountain and proclaim victory, another mountain twice the orignal's size pops up. Jastrow argues that this second mountain is unaviodable and unclimbable. Because this is unacceptable for some, many chose ot ignore it or dismiss it. However, despite their efforts the mountain is still there and as Jastow points out, the mountian is there for good. Calling this mountain the Big Bang does not solve anything, rather it avoids the issue altogether. <br />Very well written. If you have not read books on astronomy do not worry. Nothing to complicated here, so you can dive right in.	2003-04-15
US	43846301	R3UL4YPIEKYPFC	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	5	30	51	N	N	Great book	Icons of evolution is a well written book. Inside ten of the most often talked \\"proofs\\" for evolution are covered. Well's does a good job showing that most of the trusted icons deal mostly with myths more than science. For this, Jonathan Well's book, moreover Jonathan Well's character continues to be challenged, not because there is some truth to the attacks, but rather because Mr Wells threatens a way of life. Well's attacks the evidence that so often has been to support evolution, this is why he is constantly attacked. So let's try to clear up some this far fetched fabrications spewed out against Mr Wells. <br />First off, just because an evolutionist makes a comment against or rather about the a lack of evidence supporting evolution, that does not mean they question evolution. Books written by people like Duane Gish and Henry Morris have often quoted evolutionists who speak out or have problems with some aspect of evolution. Mr Wells does the same thing. Is this wrong? Only if the authors portray the scientists to be against evolution. This though is simply not the case. Nowhere in this book does Mr Well's argue the Colin Patterson or Conway Morris reject evolution. Wells, moreover, does not even misrepresent their quotes or use his own artistic impression, a la Ernest Hackel, to mislead the reader. Furthermore, Wells simply quotes them word for word, and then uses that evidence to support his views. This not cheap, illegal, wrong, or unjustifiable. This is simply good, sound, writing practiced by ALL writers of non-fiction. To proclaim that Wells has misquoted people is absurd. There is NO evidence to support this. <br />Second please, give it up. Embyrology DOES NOT not support Darwinism!!! Please, for your sake, let it die. It is an embrassing idea already, besides the fact the Hackel's fraud are still represnted in textbooks today. THAT FACT ALONE is enough to justify Well's book. <BR> <BR>Third, the peppered moths. Even if we ignore the fact that many pictures were staged and faked, this still does not deny the fact that the peppered moths DO NOT support darwinism!! Population variation in no way whatsoever gives any credence to this notion man evolved from apes. BTW, the picture on the cover does indeed appear in textbooks! <br />In short, people love darwinism. They love their religious dogma more than any thing else; this idea is what allows people to justify their life and their existence. That being said, it is no wonder why people like Wells are attacked for simply quoting people verbatim. They are attacked because people love their dogma, and are willingly to do anything to save it. Admiting that the dogma of evolution has more problems than companies like Enron and Worldcom have is to much for some to stand. And because of this they lash out on anyone bringing to light these problems. This is why Well's book is continually attacked, and why it will continue to be attacked. Not because there are errors in the book, but rather simply because there are NO ERRORS in the book.	2002-07-29
US	43846301	R1EBDYNMX7U9UJ	1880582244	881989203	Not by Chance! Shattering the Modern Theory of Evolution	Books	5	11	25	N	N	Darwinism: mathematically impossible	This book is a must have if your interested in the origins debate. Spetner does a great job of revealing the flaws of darwinism, namely that mutations coupled with natures selection pressures could not have produced the genetic complexity of information organisms contain today. The only way mutations could produce such complexity is if the mutations were &quot;planned&quot; in the right spot, or designed in the right spot. Mutations, however, are random according to darwinism and as such darwinism's fate is forever sealed. Mathematically, darwinism could not have happended. Anyone that wants to claim that darwinism is correct, fine. More power to them. But to ignore statistical facts, mathematic probabilities, all in the name of saving a doomed theory is wrong. It is high time darwinists step up and admit that their theory, along with creation, is not a scientific theory. <br />This book can bring the failures of darwinism to light to those who have been told science fully supports darwinism. Buy the book, show it to a friend, or give it as a gift. The book is somewhat complex, so it is not for everyone. Spetner though does take the time to explain his statistics in laymans terms. <br />On a side note, Spetner does not discredit evolution, only darwinism. He seems to be keen to an idea similar to Lamarckism. So even those readers who fear this is another creationist book, it is not. Read it for yourself and find out.	2002-05-18
US	43846301	RYOLWC1DXFVF9	0393301540	217803692	Scientists Confront Creationism	Books	1	15	93	N	N	Darwinists, NOT scientists confront creationism	There are many problems with this book, the first of which is the title. The book argues that scientists confront creationism however, this is not only deceiving but flat out wrong. The title implies that all scientists reject creationism, this simply isn't true. Thousands of scientists across the globe accept creationism. <br />There are many misconceptions that devalue any real purpose this book could have. However, there are some good points in the book. Problems with radioactive dating are admitted to some extent. However there is no mention of the unprovable assumptions that must be made. There is no sure way to know that the decay rates have remained constant throughout time, or that the rates haven't been dramatically increased throughout time.   <BR> <BR>The creationist view of the geological record is examined. The writers scoff at the notion that creationists argue that the geological column was built upon the assumption of evolution. Evolutionists, like some reviewers here, often point out that the geological record was formed be for Darwin wrote his book. They fail to understand, however, that evolution was accepted WELL BEFORE Darwin!! Darwin may be known as the father of evolution, but that doesnt mean Darwin founded evolution. Heck, even Dariwn's OWN grandfather believed in evolution, yet evolutionists seem to forget when they think about the geologcial column! I wonder why evolutionists have such a hard time understanding history? Could it be because of their own preconceived ideas about history?  <br />The chapter on the statiscal improbability of evolution is a complete joke! No probabilties are examined as to whether or not darwinism could have occured. Moreover the evolutionists show their ignorance for the subject of statistics. A recent book by Lee Spetner puts their ignorance of statisics to shame. If you want to understand why mathematics argues AGAINIST darwinism, check out Spetner's work, Not By Chance. <br />This book implies that creationists are not scientists and that evolutionists are scientists. This is the biggest error of the book. Neither creationism nor evolutionism are scientific theories, they are instead historical theories. It is sad to see not only this propaganda about creation being unscientific and evolution scientific being spread twenty some years ago, however, it is even worse to see this myth being carried on today. This book gives an unblanced view of what creationism is. There are much better books out their to read.	2002-03-21
US	43846301	R1VR247S0TCMYH	0521631440	705023368	Can a Darwinian be a Christian?: The Relationship between Science and Religion	Books	2	7	20	N	N	not bad, but too many problems	Michael Ruse is a Darwinist and a Christian. This book is his attempt to remove the barrier between Darwinism and Christianity. One of the problems with the book, however, is that he doesn't really go into what Christianity is. He does cover the book of Genesis, though. Moreover, I agree with some of his views of Genesis. He admits that the Genesis implies a relatively young earth. He believes the bible should be taken literally, unless the text \\"is clearly false, then interpretation is permissible.\\" Pg 51 I would agree with all of those things. However, Ruse goes on to say that it was \\"God's task was to create humans, which he did through His progress-guaranteeing fundamental theorem of natural selection.\\" He then has to delegate Adam and Eve down to fiction. He removes God from creation, and proclaims that nature is self-sufficient. He does this because of his preconceived views of the world. <BR>There are some bright spots in this book. Ruse's argument for evolution is persuasive. However, I do have some problems with some of what Ruse wrote. For starters, he argues that the first organic molecules came from inorganic molecules. He argues this transition came about all through natural processes, without divine intervention. However, science has never demonstrated that organic molecules could come from inorganic molecules. Ruse's belief for this comes from his blind faith in nature. Furthermore, the idea of spontaneous generation has been scrapped for a while now. Ruse knows this, and attempts to separate this transition from the defeated hypothesis of spontaneous generation, because, he argues, this only created the building blocks of life themselves, and not REAL LIFE. Pg 62 However, this is a poor use of semantics. Feel free to call it what you want Mr. Ruse, however, that doesn't erase the improbability of your theory. All you have is blind faith in the impossible. Wait, and hope that science can duplicate the process of organic materials from inorganic. However, until science actually DOES produce life from non-life you have nothing to stand on except your blind faith in naturalism. <BR>As if bringing up his faith in spontaneous generation wasn't enough, Ruse goes on to argue in favor of another defeated icon of Darwinism. That is that embryology somehow proves common descent. He says: \\"The naked eye cannot tell apart the embryos of dog and human. This points to a shared evolution origin.\\" Pg 18 Ruse fails to understand though that there are just too many differences between the supposed evolutionary ancestors embryos. This differences remove any creditability that embryology could support Darwinism. Moreover, if embryology does indeed support Darwinism than it is high time Darwinist rewrote evolutionary history because according to Darwinism, early humans developed teeth first and then their tongues, but according to embryology, tongues are developed first and then teeth. In short, embryology cannot say if Darwinism is true or not. <BR>Finally, Ruse says: \\"It may indeed be the case that a Darwinian cannot be a Christian, but it is something to be decided only after one has looked at the two systems and worked through their points of possible conflict and dispute. It is not to be settled a priori before one begins. It is certainly not to be settled in happy and total ignorance of what others claim and believe.\\" Pg Ix On this I completely agree with Mr. Ruse. Ignorance should be avoided. People need to do their own searching and come up with their own ideas of whether or not a Darwinian can be a Christian. This book can help you decide one way or another.	2002-03-15
US	43846301	R18YZT9ND5SXXS	1573221929	61923014	Darwin, His Daughter, and Human Evolution	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Not bad	In  this book you get a close up of who darwin was and what he was thinking. Numerous quotes from letters to family and friends are used. There will be no doubt after reading some those quotes that Darwin loved his family, his wive, and science. The loss of his daughter took its toll on Darwin. You can really see the change from theist darwin, before Annie's death, to agnostic darwin, after her death. That event forever changed darwin's outlook on God. Because if God does exist then why did he let his innocent daughter sufffer so much. How could pain and suffering be allowed by a righteous God, like the one Emma believed in. <br />The book only devotes a couple of chapters to evolution, I thought that was a problem. Overall the book isnt bad, just average. Most of the quotes Keynes uses I already read in the book Darwin: the Life of a Tormented Evolutionist. If you want a book that takes a deeper look into evolution, the cast of  characters surronding evolution, and darwin himself go with a the above mentioned book.	2002-03-11
US	43846301	R2PI83SHAGEDQQ	0785211357	141279827	How to Get into the Bible	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great Study Guide	How to Get Into the Bible is a wonderfully laid out book that really brings the messages of the Bible home. Each book of the Bible is reviewed. Timelines and maps of the surrounding areas, found in the first page or so of each review, help the reader keep straight complicated chronological and geographical data. Also at the end of each review is the encore section. This tells the reader where they can find similar material in other books of the Bible.   <br /> I really liked the way the book is set-up. I enjoyed the shaded boxes, which highlight famous lines and ask, \\"did you know\\" questions about each book of the Bible. The section titled, How We Got Our Bible, is helpful. That is followed by a section highlighting the main points of Bible. This can help those who may not be familiar with many Bible stories. Moreover it serves as a good overview.     <br />This book is great because it is written for a variety of readers from different age groups. Teenagers on up could enjoy this book. You can choose to use the book as a reference book, read it as novel, or just read each review and then read the accompany book.	2002-01-03
US	43846301	R205KYXM1YK9DK	0895262762	107650463	Icons of Evolution: Science or Myth?	Books	5	18	31	N	N	Easy read	Ten of the most frequently trotted out icons of evolution are critiqued. Wells breaks these proofs for evolution down and examines the evidence behind them. For the most part, Wells does a good job. But I felt he could have used more recent info or at least followed up on his coverage of the Galapagos Finches. Still, Wells does a great job of putting to rest some of the ol tired myths of evolution, e.g., spontaneous generation, Hackle's frauds, human evolution, etc. <br />This book will open your eyes if you have never read any works criticizing evolution. Some people have attacked Wells creditability but he has the credentials to back the claims he makes up. Disagree with him if you want, but attacking his intellectual knowledge on the subject of evolution is simply gross ignorance. Moreover, some of the reviewers who have written negative reviews have displayed their glaring ignorance of evolution. For example, one reviewer attempts to attack Wells book. The reviewer even attempts to downplay Hackles frauds by claiming that there is still similarity to justify evolution. What a complete joke! He has obviously never looked at real embryos under a microscope, otherwise he wouldn't have had the nerve to make that dogmatic, unsupported by the evidence, statement. BTW, Darwin called embryology &quot;a subject of second to none of importance,&quot; so this reviewers entire view of embryology is seriously flawed. <br />Read the book for yourself, it is worth the time. Wells exposes a lot of myths in evolution but the most important thing he points out is that evolutionist's have known about the failure of the icons for a while now. Stephen Gould even admitted that he knew about Hackle's fraud but just didn't do anything about it. Wow!! A teacher at a major university admitting he knew something was false but just didn't want to do anything about. That is scary. Wells points out many other examples of others doing the same. After reading the book you understand why evolution isn't based on any science but rather on philosophical dogma. When teachers ignore or dismiss evidence that contradicts a theory just because it conflicts with their worldview, you know your dealing with a subject more than &quot;just science&quot;.	2001-12-17
US	43846301	R34U84QFKKW30C	0310445116	575019725	The natural limits to biological change (Christian free university curriculum)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Great book	This book takes an in-depth lookat genetic variation found in nature. The authors examine the evidence from all the different sides, compare the different theories on the issue, e.g, Darwinism, Punctuated Equilbrium, and Creation. I have read books and articles on this subject from Mayr, Gould, Stanley, Mendel, and others. This book ranks right up there in quality. Moreover it is even better in same cases as it doesn't push its dogma down your throat like some others do, but allows the reader to make up his own mind. <br />Take a look at this book if you have ever had any questions about speciation or biological variaiton. You may find this book hard to get a hold of but it is well worth it. Definite 5 star book.	2001-12-07
US	43846301	R1C5J6408JLAOD	0966816005	732790496	Tornado in a Junkyard: The Relentless Myth of Darwinism	Books	5	7	16	N	N	Great overview	This is great book of the creation/evolution debate. Perloff covers all sorts of various subjects and does it in an enjoyable way. Perloff's view on the Scopes trial is intresting and educational. His outlook on genetic variation and the limitation of change in species is invaluble. This book is worth checking out at the library. <br />I find it funny how many of those who gave this book one star don't bother leaving their name. What's the matter, can't stand behind what you say? It is obvious that some didn't read this book. Those who knock the author and say this book isn't worth the paper it is written on need to take a look at the junk their spewing out. Talk about not worth the paper it is written on!!	2001-12-07
US	43846301	R22HW4HVGONPWP	0393315703	194483165	The Blind Watchmaker: Why the Evidence of Evolution Reveals a Universe without Design (Reissued in 2006 and 1996)	Books	1	8	84	N	N	Where is the evidence?	In this book you can't tell where the science ends and where religion begins. Dawkins has done a good job of blending them into one another as an attempt to justify his materialistic worldview. While reading this book I kept wondering, where is this Evidence of Evolution that Reveals a Universe Without Design? I kept looking for the evidence but never found it. Dawkins uses misdirection and fancy wording but fails to offer any proof for his blind watchmaker theory. <br />Read this book carefully and look at the evidence for yourself. Then judge whether or not the evidence supports the authors conclusion. Dawkins, very sneaky, doesn't examine what complexity is or how it could have arisen by random mutatons. Moreover, he doesn't even examine the statistical probability of his theory. But yet wants to convince the reader that life could evolve without outside help. The message is convincing, but lacks any evidence to support it.	2001-12-07
US	43846301	R18VJYKBA6KWLW	0684834936	667246406	Darwin's Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution	Books	5	12	17	N	N	The Biochemical Challenge to Evolution still unanswered!	This book sheds a great deal of light onto the failures of neo-darwinism. The questions Behe asks are still unanswered. Despite what some reviewers have said, Behe's claims have yet to be meet. The mousetrap that one reviewer says can be reducded to one spring fails to grasp Behe's idea. Could something irreducibly complex, say a present mousetrap evolve from a step-by-step proccess without the help of intelligence? The answer is NO. <br />Behe gives his own rebuttal to this challenge in a response to fellow biologst Ken Miller. Behe says:    <br />\\"Neither Miller nor anyone else has shown that the mousetrap I pictured in my book can be constructed by a series of small changes, one at a time, as Darwinian evolution would have to do. The important take-home lesson is that even things that look superficially similar, such as the series of traps Miller showed, may not be able to be transformed into each other through a Darwinian process.\\" (...)<br />Truth is if you take one of the elements away from the mousetrap it won't funciton, period. Behe writes: <br />\\"all of the parts of my mousetrap do indeed have to be in place for it to function. I noted clearly in my book, and in my mousetrap essay on this website, that I am very much aware \\"there is more than one way to construct a mousetrap from mechanical parts.\\" <br />This is a great book. Some chapters are rather techincal, but Behe makes other chapters user friendly. Take the time to read it for yourself, it is worth it.	2001-11-14
US	43846301	RN7IHS797D7A4	0192860925	396036325	The Selfish Gene (Popular Science)	Books	1	18	112	N	N	Lacks Scientific Evidence	Genes competed with each other for survival, and with a vast amount of time, replicated themselves into more complex, more organized material. This happened time and time again until billions of years later you get the biosphere we have today. Genes experience the same struggle for survival that organisms go through, and since Darwinism is good enough to explain the existence of living organisms, it must be good enough to explain the existence of genes. We know all of this because science tells us so, right, or at least that is what Dawkins tells us. Truth is that story is a myth.<br />The Selfish Gene should have been published in the fiction section. Dawkins believes in improbabilities, that life could have arisen by unguided forces. Yet, statistically it is impossible that live could have arisen undirected and unguided (see the works of Lee Spetner). Dawkins is a firm believer in reductionism, but even the most simple forms of life are so complex and sophisticated that they dwarf any man made device (see the works of Michael Behe). In short, Dawkins believes in fairy tales.<br /><br />The Selfish Gene should be read, not because of any scientific contribution, but because of its philosophical base. Dawkins views on life, his belief in reductionism and his unyielding faith in the naturalistic world are the basis for his loyalty to evolution, NOT SCIENCE. He may use science as a scapegoat to try to justify his philosophical views, but don't be fooled. Science does not support his views, nor could it. IF Dawkins Selfish Genes acted in the past, it was a one time, unrepeatable, unobservable event. Furthermore, there is no empirical evidence to substantiate the theory. Science deals with the repeatable, the observable, and the empirical. Dawkins Selfish Gene theory is none of those things. Don't be fooled into believing what could have happened. Yes, it COULD have happened exactly the way Dawkins envisioned. But statistically it is impossible (the chance of the event happening is so minute it is statistically zero). Don't sallow this philosophical garb masquerading around as science.<br />Science has been sacrificed long enough. It is time for science to be set free from ALL DOGMA. Dogma from both the religious and philosophical sect. Read the book for yourself and look for the evidence. Be prepared. You'll find plenty examples of why Dawkins believes in the selfish gene, but all the examples come from a particular philosophical view, not from science.appening is so minute it is statistically zero). Don't sallow this philosophical garb masquerading around as science. <br />Science has been sacrificed long enough. It is time for science to be set free from ALL DOGMA. Dogma from both the religious and philosophical sect. Read the book for yourself and look for the evidence. Be prepared. You'll find plenty examples of why Dawkins believes in the selfish gene, but all the examples come from a particular philosophical view, not from science.	2001-11-09
US	43846301	R1JPVEERDYUY3N	0393316823	973190756	Climbing Mount Improbable	Books	1	19	136	N	N	Mount Improbable is Mount Impossible	Richard Dawkins goal in Climbing Mount Improbable was to show how the improbable evolution of life happened on planet earth. He failed miserably. Mr. Dawkins does not show ANY EVIDENCE to support this supposed journey up Mount Improbable. Furthermore, he reveals a glaring ignorance of statistics and fails to inform the reader that the chance of an unguided, undirected form of evolution traveling up the slope of Mount Improbable is statistically zero. If Mr. Dawkins wants to maintain blind faith in the impossible then that is his God given choice; but attempting to pass this nonsense off as science, saying that: \\"Nothing is as difficult to evolve as we humans imagine it to be.\\"(pg 196) and that: \\"Even the most difficult problems can be solved, and even the most precipitous heights can be scaled, if only a slow, gradual, step-by-step pathway can be found\\" (326) is not only misleading and unscientific but is flat-out wrong. <br />  Now I am sure that many of Mr. Dawkins followers will challenge the statement that he fails to show any evidence to support his claim. However, this is the only conclusion to draw when one looks objectively at this book. For example, in the first chapter, Facing Mount Rushmore, Dawkins differentiates between accident and design. He argues (correctly) that one who knows nothing about Mount Rushmore could conclude it was designed because, even though nature COULD HAVE made it that way, it would be highly improbable for nature to have accomplished it (6). However, Dawkins show a tremendous lack in logic when he proceeds to argue that organisms (or as he calls them \\"designoid objects\\") just bear \\"the illusion of design\\" (25). He admits that desingoid objects may seem to be designed because of their perfection, \\"but it is not real design because it has been arrived at by a completely different process\\" (28) But where is the evidence to support this? Where is the data to support this supposed scientific claim? The evidence is not witnessed by humans because it \\"is too slow to make an impressive demonstration for impatient and short-lived humans.\\"(30) The evidence for this completely different process can be found in computers, or so argues Mr. Dawkins. Many others, however, strongly disagree. William Dembski, Michael Behe, and Stephen Meyer show why Dawkins computer program fails in their book: Science and the Evidence for Design in the Universe. Neil Broom does likewise in his book: How Blind is the Watchmaker. Royal Truman has even set up a similar computer program and written about why this does not show how organisms climbed Mount Improbable.      <br />  Refer back to the first chapter, and Dawkins concludes that just because nature COULD HAVE created Mount Rushmore, it didn't. It is not probable that nature could create something that looks like four presidents heads. (19) However, Dawkins foregoes this logic throughout the rest of book and argues the exact opposite. For example, Dawkins devotes chapters 4 and 5 to how flying evolved and how the eye evolved. Yet, Dawkins doesn't show ANY EVIDENCE of either occurring in nature. He only points to examples in current organisms and postulates how it COULD HAVE happened. Just because some Australian marsupials are gliders does not prove that some organisms evolved the use of flight. Dawkins creates an hypothetical organism that gradual evolves flaps of skin between the arms and legs. Natural selection could work on this and because this trait may happen to be beneficial, the majority of the population would eventually evolve into something \\"capable of gliding hundreds of feet, and capable of steering themselves into a control landing.\\" (120) Well that is all fine and dandy, but where is the evidence that this is WHAT HAPPENED, and not just COULD HAVE HAPPENED. Either Mr. Dawkins left this evidence out of the book (highly improbable) or the evidence does not exist (highly probable)! <br />  Dawkins writes: \\"The ease with which small animals can float suggests that we have only to assume that flying evolved originally in small animals, and the flying peak of Mount Improbable immediately looks less formidable.\\" (113) \\"All that matters is that the quantity of light entering the eye should be controlled. When you realize this, the early evolution of the variable pupil ceases to be a problem.\\" (168) Again this is not evidence for the evolution of flight or of the eye. This is merely hypothetical conjecture that Dawkins attempts to shove off onto people all in the name of science. Speculating how something COULD HAVE happened is only scientific if the theory can be tested. Dawkins claims are NOT TESTABLE, they are NOT REPEATABLE, and most importantly they are NOT EMPIRICAL; THERE IS NO WAY TO SCIENTIFICAL TEST HIS HYPOTHESIS SO, THUS IT IS NOT A SCIENTIFIC ARGUMENT. <BR> <BR>  Dawkins often used theological arguments to refute creation. Arguing that traits found in animals today, like whales, show that \\"No sane creator\\" would have designed them that way. That if whales \\"had been deliberately created for the sea, they would be very different, and a lot more like fish than they are.\\"(133) But that observation is NOT A SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATION! That is a claim about the character of God. It is amazing, that evolutionists are notorious for labeling creation unscientific because it concerns the supernatural. But they seem to have no problem with using supernatural arguments to SUPPORT their theory. <BR> <BR>  This book lacks any scientific evidence to support his claim of the title. Dawkins believes evolution is true, but how do we know this is true? There certainly wasn't any scientific evidence to support it occurring in this book. Dawkins has written that anyone who says they don't believe in evolution is \\"ignorant, stupid, or insane\\" (or wicked but he would rather not consider that). However, 90% of the public rejects his form of evolution. Those who do believe in evolution believe in a God directed, guided form of evolution. Tens of Thousands of scientists reject Darwinism. So how can everybody else be wrong? The numbers are growing against Darwinism, and despite what some people say, Philip Johnson is right: Darwinism is a sinking ship, it is only a matter of time before it sinks for good. So keep on telling yourself, Mr. Dawkins that it is just everybody else who is confused. Keep sticking your head in the sand, pretending everyone else is wrong and you and your small group of cohorts are right. That attitude seems to be keen these days with a few individuals over in Afghanistan.	2001-10-25
US	43846301	R2UYDOJO7BH8X0	0890511128	149941383	Evolution: The Fossils Still Say No!	Books	5	16	31	N	N	The fossils do not support evolution!	The fossil record is broken down and examined at the crucial levels that evolution is said to have occured. Gish shows that the evidence does not support the darwinian claim, but refutes it. Duane Gish does an excellent job pointing this out. Many reviews have accused Gish of misquoting people, but where is the evidence? Please, if you going to make creditabilty challenging statements support your claim! Otherwise it is pure conjucture and is worthless! Attacking someone's creditabilty only shows the weakness of your case. <br />Duane Gish does a great job of destroying the myth that the fossil record supports darwinism. It is funny how some evolutionists say that the fossil record lacks many transitional fossils, and others claim that ALL fossils are transitionals!! So which one is it? Are the gaps real are aren't they? This book should be in every public library. Anyone who claims to support evolution should be required to read this. It will open the honest person's eyes.	2001-10-17
US	43846301	RXDRW6INMQ81P	0875523382	880718934	The Genesis Flood: The Biblical Record and Its Scientific Implications	Books	5	20	34	N	N	A True Classic	This is a great book. It is worth reading today even though originally written more than 50 years ago. It shed a great deal of light onto the failures of uniformatarianism and set up a great foundation for a biblical framework geology. I agree with other reviewers that this book should be updated. The subject of plate tectonics wasn't even an issue when originally written. A new book with updated geological information and data would be a great addition for anyone intrested in geology. This book is a true classic and is worth buying. Every library should have a copy.	2001-10-15
US	43846301	R14WI8D0Z652L6	0801056772	697760281	Bones of Contention: A Creationist Assessment of the Human Fossils	Books	5	5	14	N	N	A great book on human origins	Marvin Lubenow has done a great job covering a complicated issue. He is very knowledgeable in the areas he covers and supports his work with the evidence and data. This book helps clarify some of the trouble that creationists face. If evolution was truly a scientific theory, and not a metaphysical ideology, it would have been rejected years ago. But instead evidence is distorted and carefully constructed to fit the current dogmatic paradigm holding down science. Those who repeatedly spout that &quot;evolution is a FACT! FACT! FACT!&quot; are not practicing science. Mr. Lubenow repeatedly confirms this, and repeats a fact that needs to be repeated: Historical ideas are not scientific ideas. Historical statements are not repeatable, not observable, and not, as Mr. Lubenow frequently shows, emperical. Until people admit this the great evolution-creation controversy will go nowhere.	2001-10-15
US	43846301	R3HI4ET65MTYUX	1578590582	476714360	The Handy Physics Answer Book (The Handy Answer Book Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A good resource book	This book is a great one to refer back to find quick answers for rather complex subjects. It is easy to use, very user friendly, and written in a non-technical way. A great book to have on hand.	2001-10-15
US	43846301	R27MBXQ1Z8F4R3	1587430118	945020759	Darwin's God: Evolution and the Problem of Evil	Books	4	29	43	N	N	Darwinism is not science	Darwin's God is a fast, fun, enjoyable read that should be read by anybody interested in the origins controversy. Cornelius Hunter does an excellent job of separating science and scientific theories from the idea of Darwinism. There is this false notion held by some that Creation is unscientific while Darwinism is scientific. Mr. Hunter, however, shows that this is not true, that Darwinism is built upon a certain concept of God, and that the evidence that is often used to support Darwinism is really nothing more than arguments against a specific idea of creation: <br /> \\"We often hear that evolution is an objective, scientific theory...But this is a great myth of our time. Evolution is not a story of bold scientific stroke that has been beautifully borne out by the advancement of science, against metaphysical resistance. It is nearly the exact opposite. It is not that evolution is utterly scientific or that it completely lacks evidence. Evolution can be properly formulated as a scientific theory with plenty of supporting evidence, but as such, it is unremarkable. Evolution's supporting evidence is outrun by the counterevidence. Both nineteenth-century and twentieth-century science provide more than enough challenges to put evolution's validity in doubt, but the nineteenth century's metaphysical trends have continued through and beyond the twentieth century. Evolution's compelling arguments, and the reason for its stunning success, comes not from its scientific support but from indirect arguments against creation.\\" Pg 155 <BR> <BR>Hunter shows that evolution, wrapped inside metaphysical arguments, is given a special scientific status. Moreover, he shows that evolutionists often use \\"negative theological arguments about the nature of God\\" (i.e. that God wouldn't have done it this way, or that the eye is imperfect so it must not have been created) to support their theory. Evolutionists often claim that because there is no better argument for life's origins then evolution must be correct, or must remain so until a better theory comes along. But Hunter shows that this argument put forward by Darwinists \\"is itself a non-scientific statement\\". Pg 157  <br />Natural evil was a problem for Darwin. So in order to \\"get God of the hook\\" for evil Darwin removed God from nature. This however is not a scientific question but a metaphysical one, and Hunter shows that when Darwin did this he left the realm of science and entered the theological arena. Problems arise about the evolution-creation controversy because people fail to understand the metaphysical and theological assumptions that evolutionists make. And, as Mr. Hunter points out,  the evolution-creation controversy will remain confusing to the public until this fact is recognized. \\"Evolution\\", Hunter writes, \\"is about God.\\"  Pg 175 <br />Good job Mr Hunter, keep up the good work.	2001-10-14
US	43846301	RF62UV4EM95FY	0517123207	796780795	The Origin of Species	Books	2	17	85	N	N	The origin of species not kinds	The firs two chapters of The Origin are titled: Variation Under Domestication and Variation Under Nature. Therein lays the main argument behind Darwin's view. Darwin observed how organisms vary in nature and he observed how man had harnessed this ability for man's own benefit. Darwin referred to this trait as artificial selection, which was the basis for Darwin's dangerous idea or extrapolation: Natural Selection. With natural selection however, Darwin, proclaimed it an unguided, random process that had no real purpose. Artificial selection is nothing of this sort though. Artificial Selection is an intellectual guided, predetermined event. In fact, it is more appropriately called Intelligent Selection, since knowledge is used to carefully select those traits that can be beneficial to man. <br />In Intelligent Selection, nothing is left to chance; farmers did not and have not relied on randomness to maximize their crops output. They have always used knowledge and skill. Darwin used Intelligent Selection for establishing the basis of natural selection, proclaiming that he named it natural selection &quot;in order to mark its relation man's power of selection.&quot; Pg 53 However, since Intelligent Selection requires knowledge, order, and guidance it can hardly be used to support Darwin's dangerous extrapolation: Natural Selection, a random, unguided process. Darwin repeatedly says that if man could do so much in his short time-span, than imagine what Nature could do through it's long time-span: &quot;I can see no limit to the amount of change, to the beauty and infinite complexity of coadaptions between all organic beings, one with another and with their physical conditions of life, which may be effected in the long course of time by NATURE'S POWER OF SELECTION.&quot; Pg 91 However since Intelligent Selection is so different, or even more accurately the opposite of Natural Selection, it cannot be used as evidence for Darwin's dangerous extrapolation. Thus, Darwin's chief example for his theory is null and void. <br />Chapters 3 thru 8 deal with specific examples of descent with modification found inside nature. To help clarify, the examples that Darwin gives are not in question. In fact, the ideas concerning populations that Darwin borrowed from Malthus, the struggle for existence that organisms go through, and many of the other examples that Darwin covers are not being questioned. What IS being questioned is the extrapolations that Darwin made that went past the evidence. Scientists observe that organisms vary in nature; Scientists observe that descent with modification occurs within nature. NO ONE doubts this. But rather the objections to Darwin's work are because his claims goes PAST the evidence. Scientists know that organisms can vary, but they ALSO know there is a limit to the amount of variation that can go into any organisms (called genetic homeostasis). There is a point of no return, where the variations start to have an overtly negative effect. To say that creatures have the ability to vary in nature is true, however to proclaim that nature can do what man has not been able to due goes beyond what the evidence tells us. In fact, it goes AGAISNT the evidence; it goes AGAINST science. <br />Chapters 9-12 are devoted to the subject geology and geographical distribution of organisms. Darwin owed much credit to Charles Lyell, who gave Darwin the vast amount of time needed for natural selection to supposedly work. Darwin proclaimed that &quot;the future historian&quot; would recognize Lyell's book the Principle of Geology &quot;as having produced a revolution in natural science&quot; pg 232 Yet, Lyell's view of a gradual, non catastrophic, uniform geological rate has been rejected. Even today's most ardent evolutionists have conceded that catastrophes have vastly shaped today's earth. Darwin however believed the opposite. He relied greatly on the theory of uniformatarianism being the absolute truth and even declared that &quot;species are produced and exterminated by slowly acting and still existing causes and not by miraculous acts of creation and by catastrophes.&quot; Pg 398 Thus, Darwin's view on the geological record is mistaken. Catastrophes have had a great deal to do with the formation of the earth and on the production and extermination of organisms. <br />Darwin devotes Chapter 13 to talking about embryology and how the facts of embryology alone would be enough to convince him that evolution were true. (pg 374) But yet, studies in embryology since Darwin's time have not strengthened evolution. There are just too many examples where the embryo does not repeat the stages of his past ancestors. The human embryo for example develops its tongue at an early stage in their development, but it is only when the child is a few months old that they starts growing teeth. Yet, our supposed ancestors are said to have evolved their teeth first and then their tongue. Moreover, the idea that a human embryo goes from a single cell organism, to a fish, an amphibian, a mammal, a monkey, and then a human has been demonstrational shown to be false. (See the works of Embryologist Wayne Friar for further info) Anyone who still sticks to this old argument, is no longer dealing with science, but have entered the realm of the dogma, where evidence and reason takes a back seat. <br />Charles Darwin has become synonymous with evolution. But why? He didn't reveal any new ideas in the Origin. (The idea that organisms shared common ancestry and that the earth was extremely old had been around for a while. Ancient Greek philosophers had similar speculations.) So, what was so different about Darwin? Why do people associate Charles Darwin with evolution and not Alfred Wallace, Charles Lyell, Thomas Huxley, or even Charles's grandfather Erasmus. The answer, although in no way a short one, can be partly attributed to his attempt to rid special creation from the scientific throne. In its place instituting a naturalist paradigm, that ever since has hindered science. Before Darwin, along the time of Galileo, the dogma came from the religious sect. But, since Darwin's time the dogma has switched sides, or at least superficially. The dogma still comes from the religious sect mind you, but a religious sect masquerading around as science. In short, Darwin is synonymous with evolution not because of his scientific contribution but because of his adherence to a naturalistic philosophy, which in the words of Richard Dawkins &quot;made it possible to be an intellectual fulfilled atheist&quot;. Darwin removed the need for a designer.	2001-09-22
US	43846301	R2G6OWE87RJWER	1864364432	36280555	In Six Days: Why 50 Scientists Choose to Believe in Creation	Books	5	40	62	N	N	Great Testimonies	This book is a must have. Inside 50 scientists write about why they believe in a young earth and about how this view changed their lives. This is the book that many people have said doesn't exist. Remarks you often run into when discussing evolution with proponents of darwinism is, 'No scientist doubts the evolution has occured' or that 'No real scientist accepts the idea of a global flood and a young earth'. Yet this book proves them wrong. 50 scientists, ranging from various disciplines, are proof that not every scientist accepts darwinism. <br />So, while some will write off this book by calling these scientists a slim minority, there is no argument over whether all scientists accept darwinism and reject biblical creationism. The answer is clear, ALL SCIENTISTS DO NOT ACCEPT DARWINISM AND ALL SCIENTISTS DO NOT REJECT BIBLICAL CREATIONISM. Those who choose to beleive that all scientists reject creationism are confusing naturalistic philosophy with science. They are confusing historical statements with scientific statements. Historical theories are outside the scope of science; and in the case of the origins of life deal with information that is not emperical, not repeatable and not observable. Darwinism is an historical event. Biblical Creationism is an historical event. Both theories have so much plasticity that they can easily dismiss, ignore, or reject any objections to their theory. In short both theories are historical theories and thus not scientific theories. Anyone that claims science has proved or disproved an historical theory fails to understand what science is.	2001-08-21
US	43846301	R1XAWUIMSX6C1Z	0892818840	285573886	Shattering the Myths of Darwinism	Books	4	22	34	N	N	Job well done	Shattering the Myths of Darwinism does exactly what the title says. For so long the Darwinian establishment has been and even continues to be the status quo; an unquestionable theory that for some is above falsifacation. Richard Milton, however, presents irrefutable scientific facts that question many of the ideas darwinists take for granted. <br />     Milton, a gelogist, shows evidence that points to a young earth. He refutes the notion that all radioactive dates point to an old earth. Moreover Milton completely decimates the notion of absoulte dating, and even goes on to show that circular reasoning is often used to save Darwinism from falsification: &quot;And when Darwinists speak of absolute dating of the geological column and the fossils its contain by radioactive methods they are quite mistaken, there is nothing absolute about it. In fact the method ought to be referred to as \\"comparative dating\\", because it dates sedimentary rocks by inference alone through their relationship to the rare samples of igneous or primary rocks that are being dated.&quot; pg 22  <br />      He correctly shows that while scientists do observe changes within variation, this does not mean that those changes can support the claim made by Darwinists. He points to the fossil record and shows that it clearly does not favor darwinian evolution: &quot;Nowhere in the world has anyone met this simple evidential criterion with a straightforward fossil sequence from successful strata. Yet there are so many billons of fossils available from so many thousands of strata that the failure to meet this modest demand is inexplicable if evolution has taken place in the way Darwin and his followers have envisaged.&quot; pg 110   <br />      Milton asks the tough questions that most Darwinists seem to want to ignore or to dismiss. For this, Milton was labled an outcast and was called &quot;loony, stupid and in need of psychiatric help&quot; (pg 268) by today's leading Darwinist: Richard Dawkins. It isso sad that a professor of Zoology and a fellow scientist would sink to such a level and attack the argumenter and not the argument itself. Whatever Mr Dawkins was thinking, who knows; but attempting to win a debate by insulting your opponent may work on those who seek to see their view of history remain unchallenged, however it does nothing but show the weakness of your case to those open-minded individuals seeking after the truth. Milton's book is well worth the time to read.	2001-07-12
US	43846301	R2J2UIQI8FIVYT	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Dariwn's God?	Ken Miller presents his argument in a very persuasive, charismatic manner that makes the book flow rather easily. <BR>Throughout the book, Miller offers a wide variety of quotes from creationists and evolutionists, which he \\"carefully\\" uses to support his own case. There are many times where Miller hand selects certain passages to support his own claim.<BR> <BR>There are several flaws in Mr. Miller's argument tend to weaken the overall validity of the author's conclusion. For example, Miller repeats a common error that Darwin himself made throughout his books. Miller has associated the biblical word \\"Kind\\" to be equivalent with that of the term species. Thus, Miller thinks that by showing species are not immutable he is debunking the biblical claim that all animals were created to their own kind. For Darwin, in his time, this false analogy is forgivable since some people did associate the term \\"kind\\" with species. However over one hundred and fifty years have past since Darwin's time and the claim that \\"kind\\" is equal with the biological term species is no longer made. In fact, a majority of creationists, Henry Morris for example whom Miller frequently quotes, has readily admitted that speciation does indeed happened. (See Morris's book The Biblical Basis for Modern Science) <br />Moreover, several creation scientists from Creation Research Society have written articles proclaiming that the biblical term kind is more accurately understood when it is associated with the biological classification term Family. Therefore, Miller who correctly proclaims that speciation does occur in nature, incorrectly extrapolates this idea to falsifying the claims of creationists and intelligent design advocates: \\"Like it or not, intelligent design must face these data by arguing that each and every one of these species were created by scratch.\\" pg 94  <br />     Miller also seems to think that creationists believe in deceitful God, one who in Miller's own words, \\"works cheap tricks\\".In fact, he devotes a whole chapter to this subject entitling it \\"God the Magician\\". Continuing with flawed argument of speciation falsifying the biblical term kind, Miller compounds his mistake by claiming that creationist must somehow rationalize the intermediate stages of species. He says the only way to do is to proclaim God to be some sort of cheap trickster. However, since creationists already admit speciation does indeed happened they have no reason whatsoever to make such a claim. The whole chapter is null and void.<br />     Miller attempts to tackle the claims made by fellow biologist Michael Behe. Miller of course disagrees with Behe's claim of irreducible complexity found in nature. Miller suggests that Behe's argument is simply a regurgitation of an already defeated argument of design made by William Paley. Miller even talks about how Darwin solved this problem and quotes from Darwin his take on the human eye from the Origin of Species. What Miller fails to understand though is that while Behe doesn't believe that Darwin's idea of mutation-natural selection evolution can presently explain some things that are irreducible complex, it might be able to in the future. Thus, Behe's argument is simple: right now, from what we currently know in biology, a mutation-natural selection form of evolution cannot explain those things that are irreducible complex. Both Darwin and Richard Dawkins who claim that mutation-natural selection can explain the works of the very complex, like the human eye fail to offer any experimental or observational proof for this claim, rather they only say that it could of happened. Could of happened and did happened though are two totally different things. Thus, the question now turns to statistical probability, and many books and articles have been written made from mathematicians to statisticians (see the works of William Dembski for example) that show that it is statistical improbable that a mutation-natural selection evolution couldproduce such irreducible complex things such as the human eye.              <br />     Finally, Miller proclaims in the end of his book that he is a Christian, who \\"believes in Darwin's God.\\" 292 He argues that, even though he believes in the God of the Bible, whom in the Bible frequently and often interferes and involves himself with the lives of the Hebrew and Jewish people, God does not interfere with the nature. For Miller his view of God is one who chooses not to interfere with nature because, \\"nature can do perfectly fine job of achieving His aims all by itself?\\" pg 244  Thus even though the biblical God of the Jews and Christians constantly interacts within their lives and in history, the God that Miller believes in simple allowed nature to run in course. A course from which man himself was an accident. Miller writes: \\"Given evolution's ability to adapt, to innovate, to test, and to experiment, sooner or later it would have given the Creator exactly what He was looking for-a creature who, like us, could know Him and love Him, could perceive the heavens and dream of the stars, a creature who would eventually discover the extraordinary process of evolution that filled His earth with so much life.\\"         Finding Darwin's God is an interesting book for the those who choose to have faith in evolution as well as the Bible. Ken Miller presents an opinion that a lot people seem to hold on to these days: a joint belief in evolution and the Bible. Overall, the book is a good read and presents and adequate and somewhat even view of the evolution-creation controversy.	2001-06-23
US	43846301	R2QMQ3TTWQXKJK	0910891028	80959595	Darwin Was Wrong: A Study in Probabilities	Books	4	13	23	N	N	Darwin was wrong	The title sums it up best. Mr Cohen firmly demonstrates his case by showing how the complexity that makes up life refutes darwin's theory of common descent. Mr. Cohen supports his claims with unquestionable mathmatical formulas and scientific facts. Cohen presents his case wonderfully and truly shows how Darwin, who proclaimed the cell to be simple pile of gue, was wrong.	2001-06-02
