US	43849703	R3KHE5P1CGEEX4	0812575911	76242400	Elixir	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Book for a Plane Ride	This is a fast paced, easy to read, page turning thriller, I couldn't put it down and read it in less than 4 hours.  The story in a nutshell - Chris Bacon, a microbiologist and son of an American ambassador, discovers in the forest of Papua New Guinea a plant which holds the key to human immortality.  As Chris and his family find out, there are many people that will stop at nothing to get their hands on such a potion. <br /> <br />Closer to a made for TV movie script than anything resembling literature, the action never stops and includes Caribbean drug lords who murder people for amusement, corporate fraud in the millions, crazed religious fanatics both Muslim and the home grown kind, a family homicide/suicide, a car chase scene involving shooting, faked identities and living undercover for 15 years to escape mass murder charges, and a passenger airplane exploded with a bomb.  Quite amusing to see all the plugs for Xanax, and the \\"with everyone living longer the Social Security System will collapse\\" agenda.   <br /> <br />Cliche characters, and a plot line that is less believable than the concept of immortality, even so an enjoyable read, great book for traveling with. <br />	2005-01-13
US	43849703	R3SCTDA11KI9QE	0312253974	319074580	Lazarus and the Hurricane: The Freeing of Rubin "Hurricane" Carter	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Inspiring Lives	Two stories in one book, the first part about a young man named Lesra (short for Lazarus) and then the full history of Rubin Carter known as the Hurricane, a black American framed for a crime he never committed and wrongfully imprisoned.  A third influence which shadows both stories is a group of people known as the Canadians, their motivations are not revealed to the reader yet without the actions taken by these Canadians the stories with happy endings told in this book would not have been possible.<br /><br />Lesra was 15 when he was hired to work at a lab in Brooklyn as part of an government funded summer program for inner city youth, it was there that he met a group of Canadians who were working at the lab on a research project.  He was invited to visit them later for a weekend in Toronto and they were shocked at the appalling state of his education, though in high school he was unable to read or write and had an extremely limited vocabulary, didn't know how to read a map and had never run on grass.  Lesra moved in with them in Canada and they took over his education, Lesra eventually went to university and his whole story of being rescued from a ghetto life and realizing his full potential in a different environment is uplifting.<br /><br />As Lesra is discovering whole new worlds through books he comes across, \\"The Sixteenth Round\\" by Rubin Carter, and Lesra begins writing to Rubin in prison.  The group of Canadians become involved with the Hurricane and the rest of the book is devoted to the freeing of Rubin Carter, the incredible amount of work it took and the history of Carter's case in the courts of New Jersey.<br /><br />Though the book was engrossing there is too much left hanging, mainly what is the motivation of the Canadians and who are they really?  Also the title is somewhat misleading as we don't hear much about Lesra except at the beginning.  Finally, if it is true as suggested in other reviews here that Rubin was having a love affair that went onfor several years with one of the Canadians, then that would most certainly be a glaring omission giving quite a different view of the same story.	2005-01-08
US	43849703	RMUYHVX2C1IVL	0618446672	528949666	Testament: A Novel	Books	5	13	14	N	N	New slant on a very old story	It is certain that devout Christians will not be happy with this portrayal of the life of Jesus.  Jesus is not a god, Mary is not a virgin and there is no resurrection in this story which is told in four books narrated by Judas Iscariot,  Mary Magdalene, Simon of Gergesa and Mary the mother of Jesus.  <br /> <br />I enjoyed the book as a stunning piece of historical fiction  - through the character of Judas we get a view of life under the Roman occupation along with the usual toadies ready to sell out their own people.  Vivid descriptions of the lakes, the fishermen and wharf areas make the countryside come to life, and most unforgettable is the magnificent temple of the Jews with the smells of blood and smoke from the animal sacrifices and tables of money changers.  While I was reading \\"Testament\\" it was easy to slide into the past and imagine life in ancient times. <br /> <br />That anyone would be able to take the story of Jesus and put such an new slant on it is a testament to the writing skills and imagination of Nino Ricci, and to be able to make the story suspenseful is very impressive.  By the same author I have also The Book of the Saints with its poetic and beautiful style of writing, then \\"In a Glass House\\" so emotional penetrating it was almost too painful to read - Mr. Ricci is one of those writers that always surprises, continuing to get better and better. <br /> <br />	2004-12-22
US	43849703	R1V97BM5R8E36P	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Victims of Circumstance	As noted by many previous reviewers Flaubert's style is stark and direct, he simply tells us a story in chronological order of events without any moral judgement.  Morality in this novel is left open to the reader's judgement and interpretation.  Set in the 19th century French countryside it is a tragic tale of a marriage between Emma Rouault and Charles Bovary told in three parts.<br /><br />Begins with a brief but thorough look at the early life of Charles  - his education, career as a \\"health officer\\", first marriage, his wife chosen by his mother for her money, a sickly unappealing widow much older than he, then meeting Emma through a call to her father, his wife's timely death.  Emma is young and inexperienced, her head filled with romantic fantasies and an active imagination.  Their courtship is brief and the story really begins with the marriage of Emma and Charles.  Quickly Emma finds herself  stuck in a dead existence, not only does Charles lack imagination he is as dull as a post.  Flaubert explicitly tells us just how stupid Charles is such as when he goes to a ball and stands for 5 hours watching a card game not knowing what else to do or in the case of the horrible operation on the man with the club foot.  Doomed from the start by incompatibility the relationship spirals downward from disillusionment, to an unrequited attraction, a nervous breakdown, move to another town to get away, affairs, child neglect, debt and suicide.<br /><br />Still a timeless classic worth reading for anyone who feels trapped in circumstances beneath their capacities, in a world too small for them.  There was little choice for a woman in the 19th century countryside as Emma reminds her lover, she cannot make her own living in the world or choose to court who she wants.  Her great imagination and feeling nature with no outlet for it dooms her to eternal loneliness, controlled by passions that are never satisfied and eventually leads to delusions and debauchery.	2004-12-19
US	43849703	R1CTFIKZHK2B4W	078688746X	47142023	Ada BlackJack: A True Story of Survival in the Arctic	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Survivor	Absorbing account of an Inuit woman who was the sole survivor of a tragic Arctic expedition and her four  male companions who did not make it.  Born Ada Delutuk in 1898, when she was eight she was taken in by Methodist missionaries in Nome and talk to read, write, sew and cook.  At sixteen she married Jack Blackjack, was divorced at 21, one son out of 3 children survived, but she was unable to care for him because of his tuberculosis.  She was persuaded to accompany a group of young men on a land claims expedition to Wrangle Island, a desolate place above the Arctic circle between Canada and Siberia, to cook and sew for them.  For Ada the money is good and will enable her to support her son she is promised the mission will be for one year only and that two other Eskimo families will accompany them, but they abandon the mission at the last moment. <br /> <br />This mission had been organized by Vilhjalmur Steffanson, an irresponsible publicity seeker who influenced the young men to go, in their eyes Steffanson was a hero.  It was his opinion that it was as easy to live in Arctic  as anywhere else, nothing to it, though he himself had never done it, and had already led a disastrous mission once before, he had abandoned his crew and men had died.   <br /> <br />Ada and her companions set out in September 1921, under supplied but even so they survived.  After a year though the relief crew and ship promised by Steffanson did not arrive and then things became more desperate as supplies were too low to survive another winter.  It was decided that Ada would stay with one of the men too sick to travel and the other three would strike out across the ice for the Siberian coast  When the ship finally did arrive in 1923, Ada was alone. <br /> <br /> The author has done an incredible job of taking a dry event from the past and making it come to life.  This is a great historical novel and I have put her book \\"The Ice Master\\" on my list of books I want.  There are numerous excerptsfrom newspaper articles written at the time and letters written between the families left behind.  I loved Ada's story of The Lady in the Moon,  and found it striking that she was able to survive under formidable conditions but had trouble functioning in a city.  Her life of drinking, TB and broken marriages is sad, but she still shines through as an inspiration and a survivor. <br />	2004-12-19
US	43849703	R3GCQDW56VLXDY	037572706X	578369457	Julian: A Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Splendid historical fiction with acid humor	A  novel about a Roman emperor whose rule was brief, Julian known as the Apostate was the nephew of Constantine.  When he became the emperor he tried to bring back worship of the \\"old gods\\" and oust Christianity, a religion not favorably portrayed, though neither are the old ways of oracle and sacrifice. Three different views of the same historical events are presented by having three different narrators - Julian himself, and Libanius and Priscus both philosophers who knew him.  The philosophers are carrying on a correspondence regarding Julian's autobiography sometime after his death at age 32. <br /> <br />Well written and researched, this book invites fascinating \\"what if.......?\\" speculation; just imagine if he had reigned longer and been successful what a totally different place Europe would have been.   <br />	2004-11-23
US	43849703	RBTZLR9FA9J0F	0385264623	36712065	The Thief and the Dogs	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Revenge is Bitter	First published in Egypt during the sixties, another great novella from Naguib Mahfouz, this one a riveting page turner narrated as a streaming flow of consciousness from a criminal mind. <br />  <br />The story opens with Said Mahran, just released after years in prison, burning up with hatred and obsessed with the idea of revenge on his ex-wife Nabawiyya and her new husband and his old friend Ilish.  When he sees the success of one of his old cronies, Rauf Ilwan, he hates him too and desires vengeance.   He seems driven by circumstance, yet later when he is given opportunities to change, he does not take them, knows only how to be a thief and nothing else. He is unable to change, blaming everyone except himself for his problems and soon seeks out \\"Tarzan\\" and his sleazy club out in the dark of the desert, drawn back into the criminal underworld.   <br /> <br />A psychological study of someone bent on self-destruction. <br /> <br />	2004-10-30
US	43849703	R107JPM1LGCL67	0435900668	47372678	Season of Migration to the North	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Outline for a novel	Really a novella with only 169 pages, would have made a great book with an extra 200 pages or so, I found Season of Migration to the North interesting but only skimming the surface.  Also though some parts flow almost like poetry with descriptions of place settings in the Sudan beautifully told, I felt there was something missing in the translation, it was difficult at times to follow the changes in narrators and time periods. <br /> <br />Story opens with a teacher in a village in Sudan, he has been away for some years, and when he returns meets a new man, Mustafa,  who has married and settled in the village.  Mustafa's history is eventually revealed, born with his mother as his only family, his intellectual abilities and brilliance was noticed early, British people took over his education, and when he reached his late teens moved to England.  Because of his big brain and success he is welcomed by British society and could go far but Mustafa's weakness is his insatiable womanizing.  His seductions by creating a prototype African image for himself are hilarious.  The problem is that his girlfriends all seem to commit suicide, except for one - the woman that he does marry, Jean Morris, he has a masochistic attachment to reminiscent of \\"Of Human Bondage\\". <br /> <br />So much stuff touched on both in the village in Sudan and in the experiences of a Sudanese in London and so little explored and explained.   <br /> <br />	2004-10-30
US	43849703	R30OAP5JS0PRSR	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	8	12	N	N	What's All the Fuss About?	Just a poetically told simple fable for mystics about a boy who has a dream and goes off to the Pyramids in Egypt to seek treasure.  The usual truisms of spiritual evolution are presented - listening to the inner voice and when the student is ready the guide will appear.  Just a very short book as beautiful and easy to read as a fairy tale. <br /> <br />So how about the negative reviews?  Not that there are negative reviews, of course any book is as easy to dislike as to like, but the sheer hatred expressed by some reviewers, both for this book and for the type of people who would enjoy this book really blows me away.  Some people do not even grasp metaphor, for instance that the buried treasure is not actually material but only a symbol like buried treasure in any fairy tale.   <br /> <br />This book is not a spiritual guide - personally I believe no one can be \\"guided\\" into spirituality, it is something that must awaken from within or not at all - it is only what it professes to be on the cover \\"a fable about following your dream\\".  Don't take the whole thing so seriously. <br /> <br />	2004-10-09
US	43849703	R3GTPC2KSD1O0C	0312420196	85872492	Border Crossing: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Psychological thriller	The only other Pat Barker novels I've read were those of the Regeneration trilogy, and it's easy to recognize her style in \\"Border Crossing\\", once again the reader is taken into the intimate relationship between a psychologist and his patient.  This one does not have the same scope as the trilogy, really just a novella or extra long short story with only 216 pages, a page turning psychological thriller that's easy to read in a night.. <br /> <br />One day while walking by a river Tom witnesses an accident and rescues a man from drowning.  Coincidentally this man turns out to be Danny, a child murderer now released who once was evaluated by Tom to judge if he was fit to stand trial in an adult court.  Tom decides to begin therapy sessions with Danny to help him understand his past, and more questions are raised than answered.  Readers that like nice clear cut endings might be disappointed with this, what is good and what is evil are very ambiguous in this story; and certainly will give pause for thought about child criminals, especially children who kill.   <br /> <br />I gave this a 4 star rating because of the plot line involving his wife - while interesting this was somewhat disconnected from the story.  The ending has been left wide open for a sequel and I wouldn't mind hearing what becomes of Danny Miller. <br /> <br />	2004-10-03
US	43849703	R3TJORVCYXLZHC	1594480001	659516630	The Kite Runner	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A novel of brotherhood	Set in Afghanistan in the then beautiful city of Kabul, this story is told through the eyes of Amir remembering his childhood as the only son of a rich merchant.  He grew up with Hassan, the son of his father's servant. Amir and his father, Baba are Pashtun, a privileged class in Afghanistan and Hassan and his father Ali are Hazara, a persecuted group thought to be inferior.  Though Hassan is Amir's best friend, when others are present Amir is ashamed of him; also Amir sees Hassan as a rival for the affections of  Baba.  A traumatic event takes place in which Hassan is badly hurt, but though Amir is a witness he does nothing to help and the guilt from this never leaves him.   <br /> <br />In July 1973 the Afghan monarchy ended in a coup, and when the Russians later invade Amir and his father flee in March, 1981 on a treacherous journey through the mountains to Peshawar in Pakistan, leaving Ali and Hassan behind forever.  Eventually they land in an migr community in San Francisco, poor but intact, and life goes on until one day Amir receives the phone call that compels him to return to the land that now belongs to the Taliban.. <br /> <br />While this is an exciting page turner and excellent for a first novel it is definitely not fine literature; the first half of the book has a lot of depth but as soon as he picks up the phone call from Rahim Khan it becomes a page-turning thriller full of cliches and implausible scenes, made for television or Hollywood or like a book based on a movie.  Even so I enjoyed it as it is the first piece of fiction I've ever read set in Afghanistan and the descriptions of Kabul then and now were fascinating not to mention life under the Taliban.  So little is known generally in the west about this part of the world that perhaps a sensational best selling thriller is the best introduction for many.  For fine lit set in the Mid-East try ABDELRAHMAN MUNIF.  Hope Mr. Hosseini develops the style evidenced in the first part and not the otherway around. <br /> <br />	2004-10-02
US	43849703	R8F30CAS8Y12X	0374525285	828207438	Hunger: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Nobel prize winner	I decided to give this a 5 star rating because it is obviously a timeless piece of well written literature, an innovative work that probably did influence many others that followed.  Considering that it was first published in 1890 the descriptions of poverty in the city and sexual directness must have been shocking.  The protagonist is a young aspiring writer who suffers from starvation and other depravations in order to enhance his art; the setting is Christiania (later became Oslo).  He is somewhat similar to the character Raskolnikov in \\"Crime and Punishment\\" in that the story is narrated as a streaming flow of an insane and erratic consciousness  <br /> <br />Excellent as the book is though, it is not one I would read a second time.  The main character did not elicit my sympathy, his suffering seemed needless to me something that could have been ended at any time were he not so stubborn and anti social.  Perhaps more of a \\"boy's\\" book, a more literary \\"Catcher in the Rye\\" with a more grown up character. <br /> <br />	2004-09-28
US	43849703	R3QD7HE3C4R2K2	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An American Classic	Though \\"Son of the Circus\\" remains my personal favorite of John Irving novels (also read Garp, Hotel New Hampshire, Cider House and Widow for One Year), \\"Owen Meaney\\" is without doubt his greatest  work.  The narrator is Johnny Wheelwright describing his relationship with his best friend Owen Meaney from boyhood till their early twenties and his own life as he's writing the novel in Toronto in the late 1980's.  His memories are bittersweet, he lost a finger and a friend because of the Vietnam war before coming to Canada, and critiques American policies during the Reagan years which were current at the time the book was written. <br /> <br />As for Owen Meaney, he does remind me somewhat of Oscar from \\"The Tin Drum\\" as indicated in one of the editorial reviews here because of his perceptions of the adult world.  Owen is the only child of a granite quarry owner, brilliant in spite of physical aberrations, insightful and even able to see the future, but deprived emotionally and brought up by parents so ignorant and stupid that they tell him when he's still young that his was a virgin birth and he is just like the Christ child.  He grows up accepting this role of a savior to others and he later joins the army believing he is fated to die in Vietnam.  All of Owen's dialogue is printed in capital letters, reminiscent of bibles where all of Jesus' dialogue is printed in red. <br /> <br />Sounds serious but this was one of the funniest novels I've read in ages, laugh out loud descriptions of growing up, life in the fifties and all the changes during the sixties.  The characters are eccentric, some even bizarre in the usual John Irving style.  I especially enjoyed the ongoing commentary on television through the character of the grandmother who observes when she first sees one that television hastens the process of death, then becomes an addict and eventually dies with her hand frozen on the remote.  A more serious critique of  television is presented as the years pass and the news and politics become \\"made for TV\\" as Owen would say.   <br /> <br />There is a political agenda to this novel, the reader is meant to see the analogy between the selling of the Vietnam war and the selling of Reagan times policies.  The book is even more relevant now, with quotes like \\"....God \\"supported\\" the U.S. troops in Vietnam.....to not support the presence of those troops was both anti-American and ungodly.\\" or  \\"...selling Jesus stories like junk food, soon there'll be an evangelist in the White House.\\" , I'm sure this book will stay timeless for quite awhile.  <br /> <br />	2004-09-25
US	43849703	RRLSG4IR1RYSA	0393322831	116419398	The Songs of the Kings: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ancient myth spiced up	What a great concept for a novel, a modern retelling of Greek myth with more detail, \\"The Song of the Kings\\" is about King Agamemnon and his sacrifice of Iphigenia at the outset of the Trojan/Greek war.  The story is chiefly told through the eyes of three characters - Odysseus cast here as a clever politically ambitious manipulator, Calchas an Asian priest of Apollo and soothsayer to the king, and Sisipyla a slave that Iphigenia received as a present years before.  Through the character of the Singer many tales of gods and goddesses are worked into the book. <br /> <br />A group of Greek rulers, among them Achilles and Ajax, and their troops are sailing to war with Troy under the command of Agamemnon, ostensibly to avenge the insult to Menelaus, brother to Agamemnon, whose wife Helen was \\"abducted\\" by Paris the Trojan prince.  Strong winds are sent pinning the Greek fleet in harbor and an oracle  reveals that the only way to appease the angry goddess who sent the winds is for Agamemnon to sacrifice his own daughter Iphigenia.  Agamemnon sends for Iphigenia and deceives his wife Clytemnestra by telling her their daughter is going to be married. <br /> <br />Barry Unsworth is able to make this story come alive for the modern reader, even relevant to our times, though this is somewhat overdone.  A few of the references made me cringe, like \\".....fight a war without collateral damage.\\" or \\".....bound to look impressive on a person's CV.\\"  Even so, the book was enjoyable and surprisingly suspenseful considering the outcome was already known. <br />	2004-09-25
US	43849703	R2GQGDMMEDK61F	0143035002	289712823	Anna Karenina	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Grand Romance	I regret waiting so long to delve into Tolstoy's Anna Karenina, thought it would be like War and Peace, but not so, the pace is quicker here and there is an intense character penetration reminiscent of Dovstoyevsky  This is a really great classic, one of the best of its kind, a rambling soap opera with several plot lines and a full cast of characters, though there are two main protagonists - the title character Anna and Levin, who some believe is a self portrait of Tolstoy.  The setting is Russia, mainly Moscow and St. Petersburg in the 19th century and while it describes a way of life gone forever the human passions and ambitions make the book timeless.<br /><br />Love relationships are the main theme, a number of different relationships are set side by side for the reader, the main ones being Anna's suffocating and dutiful marriage to Alexei and her passionate affair with Vronsky; the marriage of Stepan and Dolly Oblonsky with all their children, him having one affair after another and she the suffering victim;  Levin and Kitty with their early rocky road and later happy marriage in spite of crazed fits of jealousy.  Of course it is the relationship between Anna and Vronsky that is the biggest story in the story, the attraction for each other is fatal and total, they give up all for each other and lose everything.  An equal amount of time is devoted to the life of Levin, a religious doubter who slowly comes to a deep sense of spirituality in all around him.  Through the Levin character the reader is introduced to beautiful descriptions of the Russian countryside and the peasantry that works the land.<br /><br />Published in the 1870's and still an immortal classic.	2004-09-09
US	43849703	R2X81F15AVAAZW	0385264763	36712065	Midaq Alley	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great fiction from Egypt	Regardless of the poor translation (the one I read by Trevor Le Gassick) this was still immensely enjoyable, the characters shone through and the scene descriptions are so rich I felt like I was there, it was just written (or translated) in such a stilted way that it felt like English was definitely not the narrator's first language.  I had previously read the Cairo trilogy, the story of several generations of a family, Midaq Alley is quite different, a soap opera about the people of the alley set over a short period of time, fast paced and very funny at times despite the bleak lives of the characters. <br /> <br />The setting is WWII, a generally prosperous time for the people in this story, some content with life in the alley, and others more ambitious dreaming of nothing but escape.  Strong characters with interconnected stories draw the reader into their lives - Kirsha the cafe owner with young male lovers, Hamida who is lured into prostitution, fat Uncle Kamil and his sweet shop, Abbas the barber who joins the army just for money to win a bride, Zaita the beggar and grave robber who performs surgery for a fee to create other beggars, Mrs. Saniya Afifi who will pay anything to a marriage broker to get herself a young husband, and several others with stories of their own to tell.  <br /> <br />I enjoy books that expose me to totally different cultures and ways human beings adapt to what life throws at them.  Midaq Alley was a journey to another time and the other side of the world.   <br />	2004-09-09
US	43849703	R1CE9LFUD08MT1	0060931221	239322111	The Last Report on the Miracles at Little No Horse: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Unusual story of an unusual priest on a native reserve	An unusual life journey - that of Agnes Dewitt originally from rural Wisconsin, briefly a nun, then a passionate affair with Bernt, hostage in a bank robbery and then, after assuming the identity of the deceased Father Damien Modeste, a priest living on an Ojibwe reserve.  This is a many layered reading experience with much about the lives of native Americans in the twentieth century, comic scenes to make you laugh out loud, moments of intense passion, and spiritual theme throughout reconciling Ojibwe spirituality with Catholicism.  The novel begins with Father Damien at an ancient age being visited by the younger Father Jude Miller who has been sent to interview him about the possible sainthood of a nun from the reserve, Sister Leopolda, finally Father Damien is compelled to revisit events of the past and to tell his story. <br /> <br />At times Erdrich's writing is more like poetry than prose, though the different stories were beautifully told it was all somewhat disjointed for a novel, hard to keep track of the characters.  What really held my attention was the idea of someone living as the other sex for an entire lifetime, this is what makes this book unique and unforgettable for me.  I was curious all the way through as to what would happen when the \\"Father\\" died, that kept me turning the pages and was pleased by way the end finally came for Agnes. <br />	2004-09-05
US	43849703	R350RSGQPD4PBS	0767913310	980945640	Extravagance: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	What's the point?	Quoting from the blurb on its back cover, Extravagance is a novel of \\"financial mania\\" and is set in two time periods - London in the 1690's and New York in the 1990's.  It is a single story, that of William  Merrick, an ambitious young man. who comes to stay with his uncle in the big city, but moves from one time period to another, for example he could be having lunch with his uncle in 17th century England, leave and step into a cab in New York 20th century.  The same characters are having parallel lives and interactions with each other in both time periods.  This simply happens and is never explained to the reader, are they time travelers, a group reincarnation, a dream??????  It seems the only reason we are constantly shifted back and forth is to demonstrate the similarities in the two periods with regard to stock trading and sudden wealth.  Though the book's concept is intriguing and includes some clever and witty writing the actual plot simply did not hold my attention.  The cliche characters are totally one dimensional, shallow, greedy and predictable in every way.   <br /> <br />Perhaps OK for someone who enjoys historical fiction about money, particularly stock market money. <br /> <br />	2004-08-13
US	43849703	R2HARX663MFRZ1	9997519329	176007544	The Wanderer	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Medieval Adventure	Ever since reading The Egyptian, I have been checking out used book stores for anything by Mika Waltari, wish more of his books were still in print. He wrote superb medieval fiction and it was well worth the search to find a copies of both The Adventurer and The Wanderer.  The first part, The Adventurer is an  <br />adventure novel set in various parts Europe in the early sixteenth century with rich descriptions of both characters and places, it is the story of one man's life Michael, a bastard born in Abo, Finland sometime in the year 1502 or 1503 he believes.  Book Two, The Wanderer continues the adventures of Michael the Finn from Abo  and this time the settings are throughout the extensive kingdom of Suleiman the Magnificent, supreme ruler of the Ottoman Turks. <br /> <br />After setting out from Vienna at the end of The Adventurer, Michael and his friend Andy are captured by pirates and compelled to convert to Islam to avoid death, he eventually ends up as the slave of Ibrahim, the Grand Vizier, second most powerful ruler after Suleiman.  Michael's skill with languages is his gift and propels him to the front of the action again and again, traveling to Istanbul, Baghdad, Tunis and Budapest and experiencing many battles and sieges.  A great deal of the action also takes place in the shadier, behind the scenes world of the harem, where concubines and eunuchs take power by more subtle means.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend both or either of these books to anyone who enjoys medieval fiction with detailed and vivid scene descriptions and characters with depth.  The Wanderer is particularly unique as instead of the usual Crusades style story of Christians fighting Moslems, these characters embrace the other religion and move through the other world. <br />	2004-07-29
US	43849703	R1OFTGGUTY0IFY	1400075254	708297054	Baghdad Diaries: A Woman's Chronicle of War and Exile	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Day to day llife in Iraq over a decade	Eye witness account of events in Baghdad by an Iraqi artist, Nuha Al-Radi kept diaries over a period of about 10 years beginning with the 1991 war, covering the period of sanctions, her own periods away from Iraq, and ending in March 2003 when the current occupation was about to begin.  Though the book flows easily and is often humorous, she is not really a great writer, much of her day to day descriptions are quite mundane even involving detail about her dog and his life, and so many different names of friends and acquaintances mentioned it is impossible to keep track.  However this adds to the book's effectiveness, the ordinariness of the people is a backdrop to the massive bombing, environmental devastation and later the sickness and birth defects.  This is not a book that discusses larger issues but is told entirely from the perspective of innocent civilians, here where Al-Radi resides the US/UK is perceived as doing more damage than Saddam. <br /> <br />Excellent choice for those interested in stories from inside Iraq.  <br /> <br />	2004-07-29
US	43849703	R2SM5BZC7STF47	1400060117	548874180	A Round-Heeled Woman: My Late-Life Adventures in Sex and Romance	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Don't Wait Too Late	\\"My Late-Life Adventures in Sex and Romance\\" is what the cover says but not too much of this book is devoted to adventures, this is really the author's life biography with long stretches dealing with her repressed upbringing, unhappy marriage, teaching career, relationship with son, and her volunteer activities at a prison.  Except for the parts about the search for romantic liaisons, I found the book dull and sad, what a lonely life, it seems she only awakened in her sixties to all she'd missed out on.<br />As to her search for a man with an ad placed in the New York Times Review of Books, I found her experiences fascinating and admire her initiative.  Probably not so encouraging for seniors seeking partners since she goes from disaster to disaster with men her own age and older and does not achieve real satisfaction until she meets a lover half her age.  Could be an inspiration for the middle aged with the realization that passion and lust still burn in an old body, so don't wait till 67 like this woman did to start exploring that side of life.<br />Bet if it had been a 67 year old man with a 33 year old woman, there wouldn't have been half as much hesitation and self doubt.	2004-07-15
US	43849703	R1TANAFF304803	039332561X	415395630	Sappho's Leap: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Gods (and the Goddesses) Must Be Crazy	The life of Sappho, a writer of erotic songs, born about 2600 years ago on the Greek island of Lesbos, re-imagined as a beautifully told myth full of gods and goddesses and magical creatures.  In the style one might expect from Erica (Fear of Flying) Jong, this myth is racy, insightful and funny ? imagine ?Clash of the Titans? with blatant sensuality.<br />The story begins  with our young heroine gaining the attention of Aphrodite and Zeus as they sit on Mount Olympus, the life of Sappho becomes a wager between the two of them, Zeus saying all her talents will be thrown away as soon as she falls in love.  Fated to be favored by the gods, Sappho moves from one adventure to the next and has intense love relationships with both men and women, though Alcaeus the poet and father of her child is the main love of her life.  Exiled from Lesbos for the crime of treason, she searches for love and inner fulfillment , her quest taking her to the island of the Amazons, to Egypt as companion to the Pharaoh, to the Oracle of Delphi, even a trip to Hades.  Aesop the fable writer is a close companion to Sappho as they encounter centaurs, sirens, and even Pegasus the winged horse.<br />Lots of fun.	2004-07-15
US	43849703	R2XL2847FJGFNF	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Book about the Love of Books	An enchanting novelette with several themes - the Chinese cultural revolution, coming of age, first passion, and love of arts and literature.  Perhaps the main theme is the indefatigability of human qualities such as imagination and quest for beauty in spite of oppression.<br />The story begins with two young men from the city arriving on Phoenix Mountain, the place they have been sent to by the Chinese government for reeducation, both guilty of being the sons of doctors.  Life among the peasants is bleak, the jobs assigned to them the most menial and dangerous and there is no intellectual stimulation.  Over time though two important things happen - first they meet the \\"little seamstress\\" the most beautiful and intelligent girl on the mountain, daughter of the area's tailor - and later they come into possession of a secret cache of forbidden books, all translations of western novels.  At this time period, all books were banned in China except for those written by Mao and his cronies and technical manuals, the boys have never seen foreign fiction before and now they have Balzac, Flaubert, Emily Bronte, Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy, Victor Hugo, Dickens, and many others, whole new worlds to explore.  <br />Quick to read with vivid descriptions, I will never forget the old man with the bed full of lice and jade dumplings with salty sauce.  Also loved the ending, the little seamstress has absorbed all the education Luo has to give and keeps moving on the path of self discovery.	2004-06-22
US	43849703	R15VX31UBDGN68	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A black woman's escape from slavery	A book almost too painful to read, it reminds me in a way of the movie Schindler's list, very heavy with horrific images, make sure you pick the right mood to read this in.  I enjoyed the author's going back and forth between past and present and switching between characters, it kept my attention.  While I found the book easy to read it was certainly not light reading, this is a story of slavery in America described through the personal experiences of several characters.  The main character Sethe is a black woman who escaped from slavery - when her \\"owner\\" tracked her and her children and was going to take them back, she actually killed one of her children rather than having her too experience life as a slave.  The book begins 18 years after that event, and it is a story about facing ghosts from the past.<br />Harsh as the book is, there are a few moments that are truly uplifting.  The scene where Sethe has arrived at Baby Suggs' house of freedom and wakes up to her first days out of slavery thinking of what to do with the day and getting to know other black people as unique personalities for the first time.  Also no matter how bleak the past, there's still a promise of something better for the future symbolized by the character of Denver.<br />In spite of all, the human spirit survives.	2004-06-13
US	43849703	R22ZKEYLAO9YCE	039475526X	423697504	Cities of Salt	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Great book from &amp; about the Mid-East	A story of total culture shock, I'm surprised this book doesn't have a higher profile here with the current level of interest in the Mid-East.  The author was born in Jordan from Saudi Arabian parents, and this particular work has been banned in Saudi Arabia and several other Arab countries.  The relationship between the Americans and Arabs is seen from the viewpoint of the desert people, whose land is given away to foreigners by their own local rulers who grow rich from oil exploration.<br />The story begins in Wadi Al-Uyoun somewhere in the desert sometime in the first half of the twentieth century, the reader is transported into an oasis community whose people live much the same way as they did in ancient times, nothing ever changes here, they know very little of the world outside the oasis except the news received from the occasional caravan passing through.   One day some  Americans arrive, soon many more arrive, then one day all the trees are bulldozed over and the people are moved out and dispersed, and the drilling for oil commences.  A few make their way to a place called Harran, and the book follows the development of Harran from an out of the way caravan stop on the coast to a modern oil exporting sea port.  Rather than having a main character, the novel is really about the land itself and tells the story of many individuals.  <br />So few great books from the Mid-East translated into English, this is in the same class as Mahfouz's &quot;Cairo Trilogy&quot;, but this one's better for those interested in the roots of modern problems between the Arab world and the west.   The scene where the people watch the Americans come out in shorts to sunbathe, the chapter with the ship of women arriving , also the emir's obsession with one new toy after another, the telescope, the car and the radio - all is told in a way both hilarious and unforgettable, though a tragic kind of comedy.	2004-06-12
US	43849703	R1KZQ7GEA1XAEE	0520081145	451795696	Civilization and Capitalism, 15th-18th Century, Vol. I: The Structure of Everyday Life	Books	4	11	24	N	N	The way they were	As the title says, this is a history of the 15th to 18th centuries with regard to the structures of day to day life.  Braudel describes in minute detail the habits of various populations with regard to diet, drugs and drink, tools, fashion, furniture, home styles and decor, energy sources and so on.   There are numerous illustrations and so much info packed into this well researched work, it is easy to follow the development of capitalism in the west due to the changing needs of a growing population.<br />I gave this book a 4 star rating though because I found it too biased, perhaps the author should have concentrated only on Europe and not even touched on other parts of the world because he was not able to do them justice, whether from lack of information or lack of interest is not clear.  It is implied throughout the book that the western civilization is superior and even the natural rulers of the world.  I wondered too whether he'd change any of his conclusions about how great western development has been if he were publishing this today in view of global warming, pollution, and other legacies.<br />A great history of the mundane habits of Europeans, but NOT a balanced history of the world.	2004-06-12
US	43849703	R130SCFAAMM9NO	477002889X	317137770	The Waiting Years	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Step into a totally different cultural experience	Not a word is wasted in this short and powerful novel covering decades in the life of the Shirakawas, a Japanese family from a century ago, and offering an intense and fascinating look into intimate relationships and suppressed emotions.  .  <br />The story begins with Yukitomo asking his wife Tomo to choose  a concubine for him, someone young and inexperienced who will also serve as a maid for her.  Though Tomo is not yet 30 he has already tired of her and she has become used to his appetite for many affairs, while choosing a mistress for her husband can be perceived as an insult she considers herself fortunate to have control over what woman will be brought into her home and family life.  As the years go on a second concubine is acquired, geishas visit frequently, and eventually the aging Yukitomo even takes his own daughter-in-law as his mistress.  Through it all Tomo is left with the management of the estate and the care of the family.<br />Recommended for those who are interested in marriages involving concubines.	2004-05-30
US	43849703	R1QQIXFBK3C0P5	0445406518	721002787	Crocodile on the Sandbank (Amelia Peabody)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Entertaining and Enjoyable	Introducing Amelia Peabody, rich heiress, a strong and intelligent woman ahead of her time, outspoken and eager for adventure, 30-something spinster determined never to marry, she is our narrator and the story is told in the form of a travel journal she is keeping.  When she comes into her money she decides to travel to Egypt, a place that has always captivated her imagination, against the wishes of her family who consider it frivolous and unbecoming for a woman to travel alone and a waste of money.  She goes anyway, on the way to Egypt she meets Evelyn who becomes her travelling companion and is enveloped in a mystery as soon as they arrive.  As they travel to view the pyramids and various tombs, they make the acquaintance of a pair of brothers also there for archaeological goals.<br />Slow and predictable at the start and not very complex as a mystery,  I still enjoyed it immensely for several reasons - most of all for the comedy, as the relationship between Peabody and Emerson developed their acid dialogue had me laughing out loud, and I was also interested in the graphic descriptions of Egypt a century ago, the journey on the Nile, the pyramids, the people and study of antiquities.   Quite a comment on the British traveling through the \\"colonies\\" and handling ancient artifacts, prejudices and all, there are a few references sprinkled throughout the novel to historical events such as fighting in Sudan.  I look forward to reading Book Two of the Peabody series.	2004-05-27
US	43849703	R36T56GIO7TRUK	014018371X	751067545	Nostromo: A Tale of the Seaboard (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Capitalism a Century Ago	Another famous classic by Joseph Conrad, \\"Nostromo\\" was written a century ago and is still interesting today as a comment about Latin America and foreign involvement.   <br />Conrad's tale is set in the harbor town of Sulaco in Costaguana, an imagined place in an imagined country somewhere in South America, plagued by revolutions and greed.   Alongside the larger group of natives and other people of color or lower class there is a small core group of Europeans, among those the Goulds.  In spite of being third generation South American Charles Gould still goes to England to find a wife.  Later when he decides to develop the silver mine he inherits from his father he goes to the United States to find a rich investor.  The silver mine becomes a huge success, only to become the target of political revolutionaries, and the story really begins when there is an attempted coup and takeover of the silver mine.  Much attention is given to inner conflicts and tough moral choices that individuals are forced to.<br />Detailed descriptions of both characters and settings makes this novel quite a dense reading experience, particularly the first section which contains very little dialogue and reads like a documentary.  Only the final section of the novel seemed deserving of the title Nostromo, part one is about Costaguana, part two the Revolution and only in part three does the reader finally become fully acquainted with Gian' Battista, or Nostromo as he is named by the upper class of Sulaco.	2004-05-24
US	43849703	R3C987HWN32LO7	0312289189	153434248	Queenmaker: A Novel of King David's Queen	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Biblical Times Romance	Loosely based on stories from the bible, this novel is about the Princess Mihal, daughter of King Saul, who was married to David at the age of thirteen.  When the king attempts to murder David on their wedding night, he flees and abandons Mihal who is then married off to another much older man, a farmer named Phaltiel.  Years later, after her brothers and father are wiped out and David has become king he comes back to claim her and make her queen, number one among his many wives and concubines.  The book includes the stories of David & Bathsheeba, Absalom's ambition, wars with the Philistines and the childhood of Solomon and is rich with detailed descriptions of palace life in Jerusalem, a new city at this point in time.<br />I was not so interested in this as a bible story but read it solely as historical fiction, it was somewhat interesting but often redundant, it seemed almost every section ends with something like \\"but I did not yet know, I was still blind...........\\" or \\"I should have known but did not then\\".   It is most of all a romance without too much depth.  There are lengthy descriptions of Michal's minute by minute feelings toward her husbands and scenes of passion, but very little of \\"Jewishness\\" for example, where are the daily rituals, religious practices, and special days?  There are prophets, but it seems none of the characters in the story have any spiritual beliefs whatsoever, something that I do not believe of people living in ancient times.  <br />Not bad and great for anyone who would enjoy a love story set in ancient times.	2004-04-24
US	43849703	RG6XOSPK5AO66	0898041406	832709155	Winged Pharaoh	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Life in Ancient Egypt	This is the life story of Sekeeta a daughter of Pharaoh in ancient Egypt, gifted because of her ability to remember her dreams and experience consciousness while dreaming.  The book follows her childhood in the palace, her years in the temple preparing for initiation, her spiritual education and study of ancient legends.  Later after the initiation she \\"marries\\" her brother and they become co-pharaohs ruling Kam.  Many of Sekeeta's experiences as a ruler are described - holding audience and passing judgements, a sea journey to Minoa, the war with the Zuma.  <br />First published in 1937 this is apparently an autobiographical account of one the author's previous lives, but even if you can't accept the idea of this as a past life recollection, at the very least it is a really great read for historical fiction fans.  So frequently characters in ancient fiction seem to speak and function like twentieth century people with materialistic goals and romantic sentiment, but \\"Winged Pharaoh\\" has an authentic feel to it transporting the reader to another time and headspace.	2004-04-12
US	43849703	R1WF9OBRQM5L0D	0452277809	648554746	One Deadly Summer	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Obsession	Another suspenseful erotic thriller by that outstanding author of mysteries, Sebastien Japrisot.  This is the third of his books for me, I've read his masterpiece Very Long Engagement and also Women in Evidence, all great mystery/detective stories, all totally different and suspenseful, Mr. Japrisot is an expert at plot twists and keeping the reader surprised.<br />The central event from the past in One Deadly Summer was a young woman terrorized and raped by three men.  Years later the psychotic daughter conceived during the rape becomes obsessed with taking revenge, but is she taking revenge on the right ones or creating more innocent victims?  The story is related to us by several different narrators, all with a different take on what it is happening, ultimately after a tragic ending the reader is left to decide who the true victim is.  Hard book to put down and unforgettable.	2004-04-11
US	43849703	R153VIKLN6EE2J	0375727582	323445954	Paradise Reclaimed	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Remarkable Life Journey	A saga about Steinar Steinsson of Hlidar farm in Iceland, a simple man who lives with his simple wife and two simple children.  Set in the later 1800's, the story begins with the family possessing a remarkable pony that is the envy of others, it attracts so much attention that Steinar decides to take the pony to a national celebration and present it to King Christian of Denmark.  It is here that he encounters Bishop Didrik for the first time, an ex-Icelander who now makes his home in Salt Lake, the bishop is back in Iceland to convert souls to Mormonism.  Later Steinar is invited to Denmark by King Christian, where he meets European royalty, drinks water from a special spring and after another encounter with the bishop is converted to Mormonism.  He decides to travel to America abandoning his family and embracing his new faith, the Mormon community is at this point is still young and still polygamous.  Eventually after some years he sends for his family in Iceland but by then nothing is the same, his farm is in ruins and his loved ones broken.<br />Funny and heartbreaking at the same time, this novel is as beautiful to read as a fairytale.  Much also about life in Iceland at that time and the early history of Mormonism in Utah.	2004-04-11
US	43849703	RYGJCFSC4MRZX	0942710487	260915035	Great Connections : Small Talk and Networking for Businesspeople	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ultimate book on Small Talk	Concise, to the point, and easy to read \\"Great Connections\\" does all it promises, a reader can learn volumes about networking, making small talk, overcoming shyness and communicating through body posture.  There are many helpful tips on how to start a conversation with anyone, ideas for topics to discuss and topics to avoid, how to join a group of people already talking and how to know when a conversation is finished and bring it to an end. The techniques described are easy to put into practice.<br />Though intended mainly for business networking the skills here can be applied to many kinds of situation requiring small talk.  Not just for the shy, also great for intellectuals or the emotionally intense who have trouble making casual and light conversation.	2004-03-26
US	43849703	R2PUH6BVYNH79Y	0385491034	893718356	The Robber Bride	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A women's story	I really enjoyed this very funny and well written novel about three quite different women, Toni, Roz and Charise who have all been burnt badly by the same woman, Zenia, a femme fatale and \\"the robber bride\\".  While the reader comes to know the three women through detailed accounts of their childhood years, Zenia and her motivations remain a mystery, at the very least she is a skilled liar and unscrupulous.  One by one Zenia steals their men and their money, and they are all in turn led down the garden path by her, their own inner weaknesses making them easy targets for a predator like Zenia.<br />Some parts of the story were a bit far fetched.  All the women seemed like caricatures, Toni the eccentric intellectual, Charise the spiritual New Age type and Roz the rich business woman, though this added to the comedy.  It was hard to believe that all three women had only ever had one love in their lives, also Zenia seemed without a soul and the others without a libido.<br />Fine literature it is not but a great entertaining read none the less, especially for women who have ever encountered a \\"Zenia\\".  Descriptions of Toronto were great too, neat to have a place I lived in described so well in a novel.	2004-03-26
US	43849703	RW1J9JKG5OP9B	0786887087	46568081	The Girl From the Coast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A common girl encounters the nobility	A short novel by the Indonesian writer Pramoedya Toer, author of the Buru quartet, \\"The Girl from the Coast\\" is a beautifully told story based on the life of Toer's grandmother.  <br />She was a young girl from a poor fishing village on the coast and was unfortunate enough to be so beautiful she caught the attention of the Bendoro, a rich and powerful Muslim nobleman from the city.  From her family's point of view by marrying the Bendoro she is stepping up into a better life, from his she is nothing but a concubine or practice wife, and certainly not the first young virgin he has married then divorced and discarded.  Used to a free and open life in the fishing village where all have to work together for their daily food and where she has lived in humble surroundings, she does not know how to adapt to the isolated and lonely life she is forced into in the grand home of the Bendoro.  There is no other function for her other than to serve his needs when he chooses to see her, even when she eventually gives birth to a daughter, she has no claim on her own baby, her body nothing but a vehicle for bearing his child.  <br />The girl from the coast is unforgettable though we never even find out her name, and the final ending so beautiful it brought tears to my eyes.  I did not realize until the end how much this was a true story, how incredible that Toer ever met his grandmother at all and what an influence this woman had on his life.	2004-03-26
US	43849703	R2XAXNIDPRZR9Q	0385720475	753673336	The Cure for Death by Lightning	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Country Style coming of age story	A year in the life of Beth Weeks, a 15/16 year old girl growing into a young woman craving love and relationship, living in an extremely dysfunctional family and in hard circumstances. Set in the 1940's in a British Columbia rural area, the family ekes out a living on their farm, and Beth has a full share of the workload. The story is told as seen through her eyes in a straight forward as it happens fashion and as such does not offer solutions, explanations or even blame, this is a teenager telling about the only life she knows.  I found parts of her story heartbreaking but she does not, she does not have any other world to compare hers to and besides that many of the other characters are far worse off than Beth.<br />The father has a metal plate in his head from the war and is unstable, crude and has problems with anger, he is abusive to his family and workers, and forces himself on Beth sexually.  The mother seems even worse to me, for while she loves her daughter, she pretends not to see what is going on with the father, refuses to believe her daughter when Beth is attacked and stripped by other kids at school, and thinks she is faking problems with her arm when Beth is struck by lightning.  Perhaps the mother is incapable of protecting Beth as she herself grew up as a victim of incest also.  There are a few good relationships, with her brother Dan, and Billy, but most of the people in this novel struck me as bleak and/or ignorant.<br />Did like the mothers scrapbook and recipes, also the First Nations people stories were great.  Beths ability to keep seeking love and ability to see the beauty in nature made me feel shell make it out of there one day, would be interesting to see what became of Beth by the time she was 30 or so.	2004-03-05
US	43849703	RRY9MPWMGYC9A	0553379615	160413158	Into the Forest	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A story of Survival	In this apocalyptic novel our wasteful consumer driven civilization here in North America has ground to a halt.  The power is off, there is no more gasoline for cars, no phones, and little news from outside.  Nell and Eva are a pair of teenage sisters living in a forest in northern California miles away from the nearest town, their mother died of cancer before everything collapsed and their father in a freak accident.  The medical system has stopped functioning without power for equipment and refrigeration.  The sisters are fortunate to have had eccentric parents that lived out of town with a garden to grow food, a wood stove, a loom to weave cloth and a gun, and many other things that prove useful.  This is the story of their survival as told by Nell in the form of a journal.<br />It's true that some of the main questions are never answered.  We never really find out what actually happened and what's going on in the rest of the world, or the rest of the country even.  No one really knows, though it does seem that it wasn't one big disaster that ended it all rather multiple cracks throughout, overtaxed power system, overseas wars, collapsing economy, pandemics and we never really find out if it's going to get going again or not.  The male characters seem a little lame too, except the eccentric dad who is killed off, and there is that scene between the sisters mentioned by previous reviewers here that seemed superfluous to the story and stretched my credulity. <br />Even so, I could hardly put the book down, really made me think, if something like this did happen, I would NOT want to be in a city.  Most of us would be as helpless as babies without electric power and supermarkets to shop in.  The story is beautifully written too with vivid descriptions of life in the forest where every action counts.  If you enjoy \\"end of the world\\" stories, don't miss this one.	2004-02-24
US	43849703	R19FG9S96M5KHH	0425152251	380749586	Sophie's World: A Novel about the History of Philosophy	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Weird hard to categorize book	This book has two distinct parts, a very \\"dreamy\\" novel and a course in philosophy.  It begins with Sophie Amundsen, a 15 year old girl in Norway in the late twentieth a century, receiving mail from a mysterious stranger, mail that turns out to be a course in philosophy.  <br />I found the history of philosophy as presented here interesting, some of the philosophers named here were somewhat familiar to me and I learned more, I liked the author's way of making connections from one stream of thought to the next over the centuries.  However when I came across anyone I know a great deal about such as Darwin or Freud, I found those sections of the book to be quite shallow and biased as well as to what was included.  I would have liked to have seen him go further with the twentieth century, how could he think of leaving out Carl Jung in a book like this????<br />The novel part of the book was totally unappealing to me, it just became too ridiculous.  Alice in Wonderland herself is a character, and the story seemed like wonderland to me something a mind under the influence of strong drugs might \\"dream\\" up.  Like a book for children but too mature for children.	2004-02-24
US	43849703	RXS413HXA0CG	0688178057	284789064	Culture Jam: How to Reverse America's Suicidal Consumer Binge--And Why We Must	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Inspires and Informs	A lot of the material covered in this book was already familiar to me as a subscriber to Adbusters for a number of years and is a great introduction and overview of the themes presented in the magazine.  This book will show you how our lives are controlled by corporations to the detriment of ourselves and the planet, featured topics are media control, growth of mood disorders, impact of television on human beings.  There is a very interesting history of the U.S. in regards to corporations, for the first hundred years or so after liberation from Britain VERY suspicious of them, somehow though the corporations managed to gain the upper hand in the 20th century, especially after the second world war.<br />This is not really a how-to guide for the activist, it is more to stimulate thought about certain issues and get you to pay attention and start thinking for yourself.  I already agree with much of the author's critique on modern life, but would not choose the same responses necessarily that he has or recommends.  A lot of the \\"memes\\" were great, \\"obsession for men\\" is hilarious and has been fun to pass along, also \\"we used to identify ourselves by our religion or political affiliation, but now we identify ourselves with the type of consumer we are, that is what kind of clothes we wear, the make of car we drive, etc. is what defines us as people\\", another one I enjoy repeating.<br />But read it for yourself, there's a little something in this for everyone to think about.	2004-02-22
US	43849703	R2RNWYQ7HIHDNF	9997519310	635696748	The Adventurer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great Tale of Adventure at the time of the Reformation	Ever since reading the Egyptian, I have been checking out used book stores for anything by Mika Waltari, wish more of his books were still in print.  The Adventurer is a real gem of medieval fiction, well worth the search to find a copy of this great historical novel set in various parts Europe in the early sixteenth century with rich descriptions of both characters and places. A few of the historical events covered are King Christian of Denmark and his attempt to unite all Scandinavia and the north under his rule, the early years of the Reformation with Luther himself making an appearance in the novel, and wars through the German and Italian states involving the Emperor Charles and the Pope.<br />Most of all it is the story of one man?s life Michael, a bastard born in Abo, Finland sometime in the year 1502 or 1503 he believes.  His father is unknown, his mother died, and his remaining family killed during a raid by the Jutes when he is still very young.  He is brought up by the town ?witch? and is somewhat isolated in his childhood.  Because of his intelligence, he is noticed by a priest and learns to read and write, receiving an education at the Cathedral school, and showing an aptitude for languages.  In spite of his intellect though, Michael is emotionally naive and often is a gullible simpleton when it comes to being manipulated.  The complications in his life compel him to move from one place to another and the reader is taken with him all the way on his journeys through Sweden, France, Germany, Hungary and Italy.  His inner nature changes as well, at the start he has absolute faith in whatever the priests teach him, as he matures he begins to look more within for his answers.<br />Highly recommend finding a used copy of this book for all lovers of historical fiction set in medieval scenes.	2004-02-16
US	43849703	R2G8JGRCZR7E3Q	0393317730	287004875	Genesis (Memory of Fire Trilogy, Part 1)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	History of the Americas told in a unique style	The author has drawn from many sources to compile this beautifully written history of the Americas, told in a couple of hundred short chapters, each a mini story of a legend or historical event presented in chronological order.  Part one of the book, called \\"First Voices\\" recounts ancient legends and creation myths of the first peoples of the Americas, later comes contact with Europeans - the \\"discovery\\" years then conquest. Volume One of the trilogy takes the reader up to 1700 and recounts more stories from South America than the Caribbean or North America, though all parts of the Americas are touched.<br />Wish now I had read this more slowly, rather than reading this straight through like a novel, a few of these chapters a night would have been better, so many horrific stories of cruelty, oppression and genocide one after another were hard to absorb, overwhelming greed is really the theme.  Such a waste of human knowledge and experience, the destruction of the ancient books of the Mayans by the Catholic church was a loss for all humanity.	2004-01-30
US	43849703	R3RNVF9K4VA8K7	0898041457	194496672	Return to Elysium	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Story of ancient Greece and Rome	Lucina of Greece was orphaned at a young age and brought up by foster parents; the story begins when she is 13 and is sent to a place called Elysium for study under the tutelage of her philosopher guardian.  She is the only woman in Elysium and thought to be very unusual because of her superior intellect.  Her life is a battle between cool reason and logic and her own intense psychic abilities, later there is pain because her great strength has little outlet in a female life.  She flees Elysium with two companions to the young city of Rome considered by Greeks to be an inferior society.  Some years are spent as priestess and oracle giver in a temple until she fakes her own death to escape with a lover and retreats into marriage.  Eventually Lucina does return to Elysium for a breath taking ending.<br />First published in 1947 this is apparently an autobiographical account of one the author's previous lives, but even if you can't accept the idea of this as a past life recollection, at the very least it is a really great read for historical fiction fans, there is an authentic feel to it.  Often very witty, the intense psychological explorations stimulate thought about the meaning of life.	2004-01-24
US	43849703	R261Q1MPQR3650	0425103285	954715892	Mrs. Mike: The Story Of Katherine Mary Flannigan	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An old favorite	I first read Mrs. Mike more than 30 years ago when I was quite young and never forgot many of the scenes, recently by chance came across a copy and was surprised at how good it is.  As a young reader I  liked it as a romance, but now can appreciate it for it's historical value - originally published in 1947, this is a novel of people living in harsh and brutal wilderness conditions, and how people pull together and help each other in small tight communities. <br />Mrs. Mike is the true account of Katherine Mary Flannigan from Boston, when she was 16 years old she was sent to her uncle John up in Calgary in the hopes that the Canadian climate would ease her suffering from pleurisy.  Calgary was still quite a wild place in 1907, and Kathy is one of the few white women for miles around.  She meets a Mountie named Mike, marries, and goes with him to Edmonton, and then on to Lesser Slave Lake by dogsled team where they will make their home amongst the villages where Mike presides as the law.  It seems like there is a Hudson's Bay trading post everywhere no matter how remote the area and many unforgettable scenes such as the forest fire and grizzly bears, lots of interaction with First Nations people, epidemics that wipe out whole families and villages.  Perhaps the best part is when she finally does return to Boston after years away and finds out there is no going back.  <br />A great novel about the Northwest Territories a century ago.	2004-01-15
US	43849703	R1AJH4FSKQQXBP	0786707496	191947686	Serpentine	Books	5	3	6	N	N	An international hustler	A fictional account of the crimes of Charles Sobhraj, a total psychopath, most infamous for his horrific spree of murder across several Asian countries in the seventies.  Known by several different aliases, he would cruise major hotels and tourist areas looking for tourists to ingratiate himself with, then drug and rob them.  Eventually he began to kill his victims, even burning some of them to death, moving from country to country using stolen passports, his blatant and arrogant attitude seemed to know no bounds.  It required police detectives from many cities and embassies to  merge their efforts to catch him and even acknowledge that there was a serial killer on the prowl, this took quite awhile and after all the effort by the end of this novel his only conviction was the one in India for 7 years<br />Born in 1944 in Vietnam, to an unmarried Vietnamese mother and an Indian father , unwanted by both parents, Charles spent his childhood in Vietnam, France, Africa and India moving from place to place and belonging nowhere.  He was highly intelligent and had a natural aptitude for languages, but early on in his life, perhaps because of his unstable childhood and rejection, he turned his abilities to the dark side of life.  From a young age Charles was able to manipulate and control others, a skill he developed throughout his life, becoming articulate in many languages and changing identities at the drop of a hat, able to convince otherwise innocent people to commit crimes for him and give him their money.  Caught for many of his crimes, he was able to slip from custody countless times with the help of others who remained fiercely loyal to him.<br />I had never heard of Charles Sobhraj before reading \\"Serpentine\\", have since discovered that he was released from prison sometime ago, profiting greatly from selling his life story, truly shocking.  While this book does have a sensational style of writing and not totally balanced, typical of pulp fiction from the seventies, I still enjoyed it immensely and would recommend it for readers of the true crime genre.	2004-01-12
US	43849703	RETCOR24RM0VA	0156028794	289512427	The Cave	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Life experience packaged and sold back to us	The story starts out in a simple fashion, Cipriano Algor, a widower in his sixties and a potter by trade, is on the verge of losing his livelihood.  He lives with his daughter, Marta, and his son-in-law, Marcal, who is a security guard at the Centre, a huge complex in the city where people live, work, and most importantly shop and consume without ever having to go outside.  For quite awhile the Centre had been Cipriano's only buyer of his earthenware crafts, their contract with him demanding that he sell to the Centre exclusively, and then one day his contract is abruptly cancelled.  At the same time, his son-in-law is expecting a promotion to resident guard which would involve leaving the pottery and moving the family into the Centre, but even so Cipriano and Marta make a last attempt to save the pottery from extinction.  More than just a story about aging, or traditional ways versus modern life, the suspense builds throughout this short novel as the reader is drawn into the lives and feelings of very realistic human beings.. <br />The close to nature life of the village and the globalized Centre are in total contrast and the drive from the village to the Centre is unforgettable, first passing the so-called green belt where nothing is green (and the insides of the strawberries grown there are white), then through the industrial belt, then the shanty town where the poor live, then through the city itself to the impenetrable fortress called the Centre.  Consumers are barraged with advertising slogans and expect to find everything (or a copy of everything) that can be bought from anywhere in the world as well as every imaginable form of entertainment including a casino, a racing track for cars, a beach with waves  - even sensations, like being in a tornado, or a blizzard can be experienced inside the Centre.  Most of the apartments in the Centre do not even have windows that look out, many of the residents prefer a view of the inside of the Centre itself, and half thedwellings have no windows at all.  <BR> <BR>I had never before heard of Plato's story of the cave, but I have learned about it since finishing this novel and once seen the connection is striking,  just the way the people in the cave are able to see only shadows on the wall which they mistake for reality, so the people in the center see and experience only artificial life, all in all quite a comment on global capitalism. This was my fourth book by Jose Saramago and once again I am struck by his slow and subtle but very powerful style as a writer.	2003-12-31
US	43849703	R3OUUE6YGRT7YR	055321392X	882109329	Of Human Bondage (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Inside the head of Philip Carey	Probably the most intimate and in depth coming of age story I've ever read, our protagonist is a sensitive and intelligent man brought up in tightly controlled circumstances, with Christian values and years of English boarding school, this is the story of his life struggle to find his own path and also a study of human obsession.  \\"Of Human Bondage\\" covers 30 years or so in the life of Philip Carey from the time he was orphaned upon the death of his mother and sent to live with his paternal uncle, a country clergyman and his wife until he reaches his thirties.<br />Through Philip's eyes, the reader get a detailed view of a number of European settings at the turn at the turn of the century -  The English countryside, boarding school, a boarding house in Heidelberg Germany, accountant apprentice in a dreary London financial institution, the Paris art world, a London hospital, a village by the sea, the shops - Maugham really has the ability to take you there.  This is also an excellent look at the English social order, especially the working class poor.<br />I found the book difficult to put down at first it is an almost too painful and intimate view into the emotions of a lonely, sensitive and crippled orphan.  Real and right up front, you will feel some of Phillip's pain.  At some point though, which seems to vary depending on the reader's taste or focus the book really takes off and becomes a page turner, for me it was when he started to pursue medicine and went to the hospital, it seemed to me that was when Philip had found the path and his life took off, although there was still some backsliding when he encountered Mildred one more time. <br />Relevant to anyone who has been caught in an masochistic obsessive relationship, timeless in that sense, although the setting describes a way of life gone forever	2003-12-18
US	43849703	R33UE0A0B1PHX1	0192835696	525889886	Pre Goriot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Money, Money, Money	This is the first book I've ever read by Balzac, though first published more than 150 years ago, it goes to show how little human nature has changed, the theme here is greed, and some of the characters in this book stop at nothing in their pursuit of money.<br />The title character is Pere Goriot, an ex-pasta merchant with two daughters who are thoroughly spoiled and self centered; he gave all his money to them when they married in the hope that he would live with them and their rich husbands and be cared for in his old age.  Instead his daughters refuse to even receive him in their homes, he has become only an object of shame and derision for them and lives on a pittance in a old boarding house, Maison Vauquer, run by the unforgettable Madame Vauquer, a widow of someone.  The main character is Eugene de Rastignac, another boarder at la Maison, a honest (at least at the start) young man from the country whose loving family has toiled and saved to be able to send him to law school in Paris, he is brought into the company of the rich and famous, the creme de la creme of Parisian society and begins to think of another path for himself than the one laid out by his family.  Almost everyone of the boarders is living for money, some more willing than others to do anything to obtain it.<br />As I was reading this I kept thinking of what a great stage play this would be, this is a true comic tragedy.  It was a little difficult to get into a first, it is a translation and a very old book describing times now gone for good, for me it began to flow more easily after 50 or so pages.  I think a modern day look too at Pere Goriot would not leave a reader feeling such pity for him because of his daughters' treatment.  He became rich by hoarding food and waiting for a famine to make a financial killing off desperate people, then educated his daughters and brought them up to feel themselves to be ladies and superior to other people, I felt like he deserved a lot of what he got, Rastignac is the one I was more interested in.	2003-12-17
US	43849703	R1ZYGBY8Y93K20	1559210354	738240098	Imperial Woman: The Story of the Last Empress of China (Oriental Novels of Pearl S. Buck)	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Ruthless Ambition	All about Tzu-Hsi, last empress of China, who reigned from the 1860's until her death in 1908. She reigned during a period of great transition in China, as the book goes on there is increasing pressure from outside - the nations of England, France, Russia, United States and others demand from China increased trade and the rights to allow their citizens to live in China and their priests & missionaries to travel wherever they please.  Japan too is an ever present threat.  The empress was unable to adapt to modern times, and rather than building modern ships and arms that would have enabled China to defend itself, all the taxes collected were spent on luxuries and palaces for her, only at the very end of her days after defeat did she accept the idea that China could not keep itself isolated from all the other peoples of the world and finally opened to the idea of sending Chinese abroad to study foreign ways.  <br />The story begins with the teenager Yehonala, betrothed to Jung-Lu, she and her cousin Sakota are chosen to be royal concubines of the Emperor, a sickly and weak man who so far has been unable to produce an heir.  Through sheer guile and ambition, Yehonala becomes the favorite, and produces a son for the Emperor (or is it his son?).  When the emperor  dies, she becomes Empress mother, regent for her still young son, and upon his death she seizes the throne and becomes Empress in her own right, first sharing the throne with her cousin Sakota, then finally alone.  As Empress of China, Tzu-Hsi has absolute power and can raise people up or down, have them beheaded or bestow mercy according to her whim, but she is unloved and deeply lonely as the extremely powerful often are.<br />This is a great novel, there is never a dull moment or wasted word and I found it hard to put down, this is a fascinating look at Chinese history and Tzu-Hsi herself is unforgettable.  Selfish and sometimes foolish as she is, the reader is compelled to like her.  I remember first reading about Tzu-Hsi in a novel called the Forbidden City by Muriel Jernigan and I never forgot her, it was a real treat to discover this book, a really great work of historical fiction.	2003-12-01
US	43849703	R1ZOJWWE3AN7BC	0156029065	99041831	Baudolino	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not my favorite of Eco's books	Loved &quot;Name of the Rose&quot; and expected another adventure with  &quot;Baudolino&quot;, but like many of the other reviewers here I agree that this one goes nowhere.  The book starts with our hero Baudolino in Constantinople while it is being invaded and burnt, he has rescued Niketas, court historian and very rich man, and proceeds to relate his own amazing life story to Niketas.  Born a peasant in Italy, Baudolino was adopted by Emperor Frederick for saving his life, later a student in Paris, then in pursuit of the Holy Grail into the kingdom of Prester John.  Or is it all a lie?<br />Too many medieval events and characters all crammed into one book, and Baudolino was just not a likable enough guy  to make me care what happened to him, Niketas was more interesting to me with his wise intellect and sensual delight in eating.	2003-11-24
US	43849703	RDDE771TMMPKU	0140153519	618226716	Petals of Blood	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A tale of Post-Colonialism	Set in Kenya but could be a prototype for a native culture anywhere colonized, breaking free, then globalized which is an extension of colonialism. It is easy to understand why the author was imprisoned after the book's publication in 1977 as he presents a bleak view of what the Kenyans got in the way of leaders after independence from the white rulers. The viewpoint here seems to be anyone &quot;for the people&quot; is assassinated, those that stay in power are stinking rich doing business with the former white rulers and selling out their own people. <br />The story opens with a brief introduction of the four main characters - Munira, Abdulla, Wanja and Karega - a triple murder has just taken place, 3 leading millionaire government officials of the city of Ilmorog were burned to death in their beds. We are then taken back twelve years in time to when Munira arrived in the sleepy, dusty village of Ilmorog to teach school, The four friends meet and we hear their individual stories, how they change over the years but more so how the place called Ilmorog changes, from a dusty village to a modern urban centre, and the effect on people who lived there for generations.<BR> <BR>I found the book very dense reading at first, there so many African names introduced, also the style of writing with many flashback is challenging, but before page 100 I was sailing along and could hardly put the book down. There are many layers to this novel, it is a book about Africa, about the world history of black people in general, globalization, colonialism, and a murder mystery as well, the arsonist responsible for the triple murder is revealed to us by the end.	2003-11-17
US	43849703	R184K5GXE2W0K8	0771087381	467744764	The Last Crossing	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great novel about the real wild west	Set in the late 1800's around the character Simon Gaunt an idealistic young gentleman from England who goes as a missionary to the New World to convert Indians.  He disappears and when no word is heard from him back at home, his father sends Simon's two brothers, his twin Charles and the elder brother Addington to the New World on a mission to find Simon and bring him home.   \\"The Last Crossing\\" is the story of their journey away from civilization and into the raw wilderness.  Some unforgettable scenes for me were the dance at Fort Edmonton, the \\"ghost village\\" where everyone had died of smallpox, the story of the Blackfoot going south past Salt Lake on a raid for horses, and the grizzly hunt.<br />The story is usually told in the first person,  but with continually changing and fascinating viewpoints as there are 6 different main narrators - the two brothers Charles and Addington, - Jerry Potts, the half Blackfoot/half Scottish hired guide, - Lucy Stoveall, a woman with her own motivations for accompanying the posse, - Custis Straw who is  in pursuit of Lucy,  and Aloysius, the saloon owner going after Custis for his own protection.  The characters are richly developed and believable, all completely different, some more likable than others.<br />I read this book in a day and a half, reading whenever I got an opportunity, it was so hard to put down and the ending was great and uplifting, filled with possibilities. Guy Vanderhaeghe is one of those authors whose books get better and better, I first read \\"Homesick\\", a moving family story, then \\"The Englishman's Boy\\", an intriguing look at early Hollywood and the wild west and now this \\"The Last Crossing\\", not just a western but really suspenseful historical literature.	2003-11-12
US	43849703	R2W7Y9OL09F92V	0140433880	3653538	Middlemarch (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An English classic	A real pleasure to recently discover this classic for the first time, \\"Middlemarch\\" is a fine example of the English style of writing from that period, a long book of almost 900 pages, with a large cast of characters and several main plot lines, novels like this are a reminder of the richness of the English language.  This is a soap opera set in the fictional town of Middlemarch with descriptions of every walk of life, George Eliot's perceptions of human nature make this a timeless piece of fiction, though there is no doubt that she describes a way of life gone forever. <br />A main theme in this novel would seem to be possessing Utopian visions and the difficulty of putting them into practice in reality.  One of the main characters is Dorothea, a young woman with great social ideals, she \\"thinks too much for a woman\\" and is under constant pressure from well-meaning realtives who want her to marry safely and give up her goals of saving the world.  Dr. Lydgate is someone else we come to know quite well, another individual who has lofty ideas but trouble coping with the real world because he tries to ignore it.  Mr. Brooke and Bulstrode also have certain visions of themselves not shared by an informed public.<br /> Some reviewers seem to feel this book is too long, that the story could have been told in half the words, but I would not change one bit of this, the beautiful use of words helps me to escape into the world of Middlemarch when life was slower moving and people had more time for reflection.	2003-11-04
US	43849703	RQW0NBTEVP99A	0340371862	458523004	Bruce Trilogy (Coronet Books)	Books	5	85	85	N	N	A phoenix rising from the ashes	Great historical fiction is my specialty and discovering Nigel Tranter has been a real treat.  This the first thing I have read by this author and for me it was also a fine introduction to a crucial period of Scottish history. This 3 part series covers the life of Robert Bruce, a truly dashing and gallant hero if there ever was one, and it is a true rags to riches story.  The whole series is well written and though lengthy is a pleasure to read with a medieval feel to it.  There are many battle scenes throughout the book, and detailed strategies described, the Scots being so outnumbered by the English had to be very clever to win.<br />Book 1 - Opens with Bruce in his 20's, a spoiled young nobleman, forced like all the other Scottish nobles to pay homage to Edward of England and be his lackey. Later his meeting with Elizabeth de Burgh, and finally the birth of his ambition.<BR>Book 2 - Hitting rock bottom with the capture and executions of his brothers, the imprisonment of his wife, and his other female relatives kept in cages, he is finally driven into the wilderness to live as a hermit.  Eventually, he rises again and is able to unite the many clans and tribes from the northern Highlands with the Norman/Celt mixed nobles from the south to fight together for the common cause of Scotland.  Part 2 finishes with the Battle of Bannockburn.<BR>Book 3 - Finally the undisputed King in Scotland though there is still the ongoing struggle to have England recognize Bruce as King of Scotland.<br />A novel I will enjoy reading again, especially loved the parts about Christina MacRuarie, ruling woman of the isles, also the Highland chiefs and sea captains.  So much historical detail with never a dull moment.	2003-10-14
US	43849703	R12793BM978YPM	0425185303	808525278	Staircase of a Thousand Steps	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Ancient Customs	Beautifully written coming of age story set before the 1967 war in the ancient village of Ein Fadr, a place in Jordan that had existed since the time of Abraham. Jammana is an intensely emotional child torn between the ancient way of life represented by her mother & her family in Ein Fadr  and modern times represented by her father who sees no future for them in the Mid-East and wants to go to America. <br />I was attracted to this book because it seemed to promise insight into a culture I know so little about and it does that, there is an intimate look into the hearts and minds of several of the villagers.  There is not much of real plot here though, rather most of this story is a child's memory.   After the magic of childhood the ending seems all too realistic and I was quite saddened by what became of Jammana's mother and father after all of it.	2003-08-22
US	43849703	R6BO4AST055NU	0393322238	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Non fiction as chilling and macabre as horror,	This true crime novel covers one of the most sensational American trials of the 20th century, that of Charles Manson and his \\"family\\", who were responsible for a series of gruesome murders in California at the end of the 1960's.  Cannot properly call this a mystery since the outcome of the case and the identity of the killers is well known,  rather this account of the Manson family written by the prosecuting attorney gives insight into the bizarre motivations for the murders.  \\"Helter Skelter\\" covers the investigation of the murders and a detailed accounting of the trial, with great photo insert sections.  If  this story had been conceived of  and written as fiction it would not be believable,  here the truth is indeed stranger than fiction. <br />Charles Manson was the product of a severely dysfunctional childhood, and a life spent more inside prison or detention than out.  This individual, like a cult leader of a commune, was able to attract young people to him and have them become so devoted to him they believe he's Jesus Christ returned and are willing to [destroy] any random individual for him on command.  <br />I'm old enough to remember the Tate/Labianca murders when they were front page news, read the first edition of \\"Helter Skelter\\" way back, and really enjoyed this newer version with the added 1994 afterward by Bugliosi telling us where all the story participants are today.  I had no idea that some of Manson's ideas are still around, unbelievable what attracts some human beings.	2003-08-19
US	43849703	R3F89GMOLNCSXK	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Story of the Congo &amp; Africa for North American Audience	With 1105 other customer reviews here as I write this, there is really little more to say about this excellent book that hasn't already been said, just want to add my 5 star vote.<br />Two stories are told, first of all it is a women's story, a fanatic Baptist preacher gone mad takes his wife and 4 daughters with him to the Congo to save the souls of the &quot;children of Ham&quot;, the Price family will never be the same again.  The part of this novel that impresses though is the overview of the Congo's colonial history and a more detailed examination of U.S. involvement in this region during the 20th century.  Some reviewers have criticized Barbara Kingsolver for &quot;pushing her political views onto her readers&quot; and &quot;having an agenda&quot;.  You bet there's an agenda here, and it's a great one, this kind of story needs to be told.  <br />I recommend this highly for western readers wishing to know more about Africa, colonialism, and/or U.S. foreign involvement.	2003-08-01
US	43849703	R3OR09NNQ6XXPW	1573229725	595147475	Fingersmith	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Trust No One	As in Sarah Waters first two novels, \\"Fingersmith\\" once again gives us a close view of the seamier side of life in London during Victorian times ? this time we make the acquaintance of a den of thieves & pickpockets among the dregs of society and get a glimpse of the world of pornography & kinky inclinations for gentlemen.  This author is an expert at plot twists and surprises which really shock the reader, allow yourself uninterrupted time for this book, it is a real page turner, melodramatic, a love story, a murder/crime thriller and great historical fiction.<br />There are so many twist and turns to this story that I find it hard to say much about it without revealing crucial parts of the plot. The main characters are 2 orphans, Maud and Sue, that have grown up leading vastly different lives and are brought together in their late teens.  At the beginning we are introduced to Sue and the family of thieves she lives among at the house of Mrs. Sucksby.  Sue is presented with a mission by Mrs. Sucksby?s friend whom she calls ?Gentleman? ?  The plan, in brief,  is that Gentleman will  marry an orphaned, isolated heiress then have her locked up in an asylum, stealing her money, Sue will pose as the lady?s maid and assist Gentleman in making his wife appear insane.  And that is all I will say.<br />I look forward to rereading this one day to look out for all the little clues I missed the first time.	2003-07-31
US	43849703	R3ST1RB3OEQR9X	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	80	81	N	N	The Vastness of India	Just finished my second reading of \\"A Suitable Boy\\", it will always be one of my favorite books.  Looking over some of the other reviews here I see that this 1474 page novel has been called \\"just\\" an Indian soap opera, and while I think soap-opera may be an apt description, it is one of the best books I have ever read.  This novel reminded me of an old fashioned English novel in the style of Dickens or Trollope or Eliot, with a large cast of characters, a thick tome with many divergent plot lines that are eventually tied together by the ending, an incredible journey for a reader.  They just don't write them this way any more.<br />The title story of  the novel is the one of Lata Mehra and her search (or rather her mother's search) for a suitable boy to marry.  The novel opens at the wedding of Savita & Pran and introduces many of the characters we will be seeing more of later.  Lata is struck by the fact that her sister is marrying a total stranger, accepting passively a marriage arranged by the family,  later she will choose between passion and an arranged marriage for herself.  Maan Kapoor is another central character that we get to know in depth following him through his obsession for Saeeda Bai, exile from the city and the dramatic scene involving Firoz.  There's far more though than the stories of only Lata and Maan, both of whom are sometimes almost forgotten for several chapters,  so many other unforgettable characters amongst  the Mehra family,  Kapoors, Chatterjis, Rasheed & his family, the Nawab Sahib & his family, Saeeda Bai's establishment.  I found Arun & his wife Meenakshi, the anglophile snobs absolutely hilarious.<br />Besides being \\"just a soap opera\\" revolving around the lives of half a dozen families of Bramphur, this is an ultimate book about India following the years after the death of Gandhi and independence from  the British.  Partition and ever increasing tension between Hindus and Muslims are ongoing themes  and the continuing more subtle influences of the British on Indian culture.  Every walk of life is covered from the untouchables of the Rudhia district to the Raja of Marh and his son.   <br />Don't let the size of this book discourage you, I found it easy to read over a period of time;  each of the 19 sections is like a mini story in itself, with many short chapters in each section.  I took several breaks in reading this, always drawn back the way one is drawn back to a family and old friends to see what's become of them now.  Long as it is, I wished it could go on forever.	2003-06-11
US	43849703	R22ZEPC5TWLD9I	0553380958	445913	Snow Crash	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Story would be better as a cartoon than a novel	The beginning seemed interesting - an alternate American reality where roads have become towns, people live in storage lockers, toxic wastes sitting around with no one to care anymore and  violence gone out of control it's everyone for themselves in this society.  Also the concept of the Mega-verse was fascinating.  However...<br />The characters were cardboard and seemed to me unbelievable as real human beings, I could only imagine them as animation figures.  In a world where the most advanced weapon technology can been had by anyone that can afford to pay for them, Hiro Protagonist, our main man, is able to fight all his battles with swords.  He is the best sword fighter in the world, apparently descended from samurai, as well as a computer genius.  Then there's the main villain, Raven, he has a nuclear bomb inside his body who fights with glass swords able to cut through armor.  And YT, 15 years old, young, blond and attractive with the strength & fighting skill of several grown men put together, and the wisdom & vision of a seer. The plot too was weak, almost non-existent, the same old simple good versus evil battle, the Sumerian legend theory seemed far-fetched and ridiculous, even embarrassing.  <br />Maybe just not my kind of book?	2003-05-26
US	43849703	RPW7L9IYNZ7M6	0312152477	769675279	Blackwater: A Novel	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Macabre Look Into the Human Psyche	A young man and woman are brutally stabbed to death in their tent while camping in beautiful surroundings beside a river in the mountains of Sweden. Though a number of people were in the area at the time, no one has apparently seen or knows anything and the crime remains unsolved for years.<BR> <BR>Bleak, slow moving who-done-it style mystery sent in a remote area of Sweden, this book is a compelling read because of its characters. As well as being a complex crime novel, an intricate puzzle with clues to be picked up along the way, this is also a psychological thriller exploring the depths of human depression. The theme of this story is loneliness & being the outsider - Johan is an outsider in his own family, the Starhill community is apart from the regular country people, Annie is outside the school community she teaches in, the Lapps are outside mainstream Swedish society, and Birger is the ultimate symbol of aloneness.<BR> <BR>This was my 2nd reading of this novel and was most helpful, the novel is so disjointed with several plot lines that this time I noticed so many more clues along the way. Events take place over years, eventually the different threads come together. I really enjoyed this book but more because of the all too realistic characters & the vivid detailed descriptions of the landscape than the actual crime plot.	2003-05-18
US	43849703	R1DDU1LIQ0Q1F3	0449205622	208352361	Captains and the Kings: The Story of an American Dynasty	Books	5	148	153	N	N	Entertaining Historical Fiction	There are two sides to this book, one is typical of the romantic pulp fiction style of the 70's, this is first the life story of Joseph Armagh, a destitute orphan who emigrated from Ireland because of the famine. His bitter experiences in childhood leave him cold hearted and in pursuit of money at all costs, and he achieves incredible wealth and power in America. His goal at any price is to make his son president of the United States. There was a made for TV mini series based on this story.<br /><br />The other more interesting part of this book though is about the control of wealth and real power in the world in the hands of a few. Taylor Caldwell has written an add on to the story that is a warning that the &quot;controllers&quot; are not fiction and were more powerful than ever. In the Captains and the Kings some historical events described are the US civil war, the presidencies of Lincoln, labor struggles, the making of Teddy Roosevelt, and immigration. Was the civil war after all just an event arranged &amp; set up mainly by rich European bankers for profit? Are all wars always set up by a handful of distant people for profit? This book really makes you wonder	2003-04-30
US	43849703	R322URA9OBCVJL	0385721234	197874660	Como agua para chocolate (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Mexican Cinderella Story	Imaginatively told, romantic  and sensual  - this is a Latin-style fairy tale for adults only.   Tita, our heroine, has a life  of work & misery, caused by her mother who is cruel beyond reason to her and has brainwashed her since birth into believing that the youngest daughter must remain a spinster and take care of her mother for ever.  Fortunately Tita is blessed with magical cooking skills that allow her to attract lovers and cast many types of spells over the people that consume her dishes, amazing events occur all around her.   Tita is not the only talented member of the family either, her sisters are notable personalities as well.<br />I recommend this as a light & funny escape from reality.	2003-04-30
US	43849703	R34EWR0PPQXHPY	0375727051	285239995	Creation: A Novel	Books	5	49	49	N	N	History masquerading as fiction	Our narrator in \\"Creation\\" is Cyrus Spitama, son of a Persian father and Greek mother, grandson of Zoroaster and friend to Xerxes. Cyrus is old and blind, he has ended up in Athens in his last years, dictating the story of his travels and his life to his nephew and scribe, Democritus. In each of the places he describes - Babylon, Cathay, India, Greece, cities of Persia - his main focus is on the religious customs, particularly various creation myths. It is no secret that Cyrus definitely favors the one (male) god that created everything, we live one life - it's good versus evil and then there's either heaven or hell. <br />There is so much crammed into this book, which is both its' strength and weakness. There are so many characters in this book, especially in the parts dealing with the Greeks, that it sometimes reads more like a history lesson than page turning fiction. Over the course of his life Cyrus comes to know Darius & Xerxes, both Great Kings of Persia, Zoroaster, the Buddha, Confucius, Socrates, and Li Tzu, quite amazing for a single individual. Even so, it's the scope of this book that makes it so interesting, I thought the trips through what is now India and China were the best parts. Who were the Aryans, really? <br />In spite of its weaknesses, I can't think of any other work of fiction that introduces so many customs, traditions, and philosophies of the ancient world and also encourages an awareness of the vastness of human civilization and history.	2003-04-23
US	43849703	R2IPBMRAT0H7DB	0452281628	226879742	Women in Evidence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"...the Seductive Soul of a Classic Noir Mystery......."	...The above quotation is from this novel's back cover and very suitable, this story seduces the reader as completely as the main character seduces the women he meets. \\"Women in Evidence\\" is an intriguing and original mystery opening with a young man dying on a beach from gunshot wounds in his chest, his true identity and killer is the puzzle that will keep you turning the pages of this very erotic adventure set during the 2nd World War. <br />The story is told by 7 different narrators, all women with irresistible obsessions for him, each knows him by a different name & identity. Each writes a testimony of her experiences with \\"the man on the beach\\" at the behest of his lawyer, Marie-Martine Lepage, herself the 8th & final narrator in the book and also yet another lover from his past. The women's stories seem to contradict each other - Emma , Belinda, Zozo, Caroline, Frou-Frou, Yoko, Toledo, Marie-Martine give varied accounts of the same man, some wanting to save him, others to kill him. The reader is left to pass judgement on the character of Christophe (or whoever) as he escapes from prison and kidnaps a young bride on her wedding night then is shot on the beach for rejecting her, hidden in a brothel by prostitutes, escapes by sea with an actress after punishing a schoolteacher, shipwrecked on a desert island, recovers in an army hospital, captured & returned to France to face his original crimes of rape & murder. All along, he claims to have been falsely accused of the crimes he was charged with.<br />The ending was a surprise and very appropriate.	2003-04-10
US	43849703	R1ACQ2P8L6H7K	0345360338	74059498	Falls the Shadow	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Story of Simon de Montfort	Part 2 of the Welsh trilogy, but there is not so much about Wales this time, Llewelyn  & Davydd are characters that stay mostly in the background.  The main character is  Simon de Montfort, a French born nobleman who led a rebellion in England seeking to limit the rights of the king.  Each book of the series can be taken on its own, it's unnecessary to have read Book 1 to appreciate \\"Falls the Shadow\\".  There is less \\"romance\\" in this one compared to Penman's other novels and more focus on actual historical events, as usual a tremendous amount of historical research has gone into the writing.  She has a real talent for making characters from history seem like living, breathing human beings for the modern reader.<br />The story opens in 1231 with a young Simon arriving in Brittany where he persuades a cousin of his to grant him the Earldom of Leicester.  Several years later he persuades the sister of King Henry of England to marry him.  He holds true to principles ahead of his time, and ends up in one struggle after another with the king, easily overpowering weak & pitiful Henry, his brother-in-law the  king.  Of course, Simon is eventually brought down,  by both the ineptitude of his own sons as military men and the strength of Edward's army.  The last scene in this installment is set in 1267 after the slaughter at Evesham, the storyline is pointing in the direction of Wales once again.<br />So many great scenes - the citizens of London throwing refuse at the Queen on her barge, Gruffydd plunging to his death,  and  the decadent army camp outside the safe walls of Kenilworth castle are unforgettable to name a few.	2003-03-31
US	43849703	R3OX4KTN2J6U6V	0425184943	453088490	Blue Diary	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Unbelievable Characters	The storyline seemed intriguing - a man is exposed as an ex-con wanted for rape and murder when a neighbor recognizes his face on a TV unsolved crime show.  His wife of 13 years, his son and the whole small town are shocked to discover that Ethan has kept many secrets from them. <br />I shoud have paid more attention to some of the other reviews here.  Every page of \\"Blue Diary\\" had something that made me incredulous and the cliche characters were unbelievable.<BR>Truly Beyond Belief:<BR>- Can you imagine being married to a man for 13 years without ever thinking to ask if he has family or where he comes from?<BR>- Kat Williams insights coming from a 12 year old girl.<BR>- When a man hangs himself in the garage where his children or his wife will find his corpse it is not because he loves them too much.<BR>- Jorie going to visit the victim's brother.<BR>- Anyone being able to absolutely change personalities the way Ethan did.  A pathological criminal from a young age, described as a vain destructive boy - thief, already living off women as a  teenager, serves time in prison, rapes & kills Rachel and then changes into a saint in one night after falling in love with a woman in a bar.<br />Very disappointing read.	2003-03-31
US	43849703	R10BDSU2AKB36T	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Made for Disney	The reviews are so widely split on this one because the book is not listed in the right section. It is a well-written story, historical settings, more fantasy than sci-fi action, slapsick comedy throughout, a book I would have enjoyed immensely if I'd read it when I was 11. Reading this book reminded me of watching Disney films like \\"The Absent Minded Professor\\", with prepostrous events and cliche characters. This is a humourous fantasy, but certainly not science fiction for grownup readers or good historical fiction.<br />I recommend this for young readers interested in the concept of time travel or the Victorian era.	2003-03-26
US	43849703	R2FGDWSIS7ECH9	0684803852	90910415	Brat Farrar	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Suspenseful mystery for those who dislike the formula kind	The story is seen from the viewpoint of its title character, Brat Farrar, a foundling who grew up in an orphanage somewhere in England, he ran away to sea, traveled around and lived in America for awhile. When the book begins, Brat has just returned to England, he is stopped by an aging actor while walking along a street.  The actor has been struck by Brat's amazing resemblance to someone he knows, Simon Ashby, who is due on his 21st birthday to inherit the family estate, though Simon was not the original heir - it should have been his twin, Patrick, who apparently committed suicide when they were 13. The actor makes Brat a proposition, he is persuaded to pose as Patrick come back and claim the family fortune. <br />This was my first Josephine Tey mystery, and it kept me up late, I couldn't wait to find out what would happen. Originally published in 1949, this author was well known for writing great mysteries that did not follow formulas. Tey has chosen the British countryside and the world of horse breeding as the setting for this one, an enjoyable read, old-fashioned, British, with a country pastor and a character called Aunt Bee. Some things are perhaps predictable, for example I guessed pretty early on who Brat really was, but there were still plenty of other surprises along the way. This would have been a great Hitchcock film.	2003-03-17
US	43849703	R1AKUB7RUKZ4NO	1859844057	198657848	The World Is Not for Sale: Farmers Against Junk Food	Books	5	10	10	N	N	We Don't Want to be Assimilated!!!!!	Interesting to read firsthand about the work of these courageous activists from France - Jose Bove is certainly not the leader of a group of country bumpkins or Luddites as I had inferred from the popular media. This book covers personal backgrounds & histories of their involvement in various farmers unions , these guys are effective organizers who know their business and also working farmers with a feeling and respect for the land, quality of life and food are goals of paramount importance. <br />Divided into 3 parts:<BR>1st - The McDonald's story and other planned protests told from the viewpoints of both Bove & Dufour. The McDonald's incident took place in response to import duties imposed on Roquefort cheese in retaliation for EU's refusal to import American hormone treated beef. Not a random or spontaneous incident but a well planned out protest carried out to attract public attention. Both Dufour & Bove have been involved more than 30 years in various movements for change in France. <BR>2nd - History of intensive farming over the last 50 years in France, farming economics, factory farms. Covers topics here such as genetically modified crops, mad cow disease, environmental destruction caused by intensive pig farming<BR>3rd - Farming as a global issue world trade organization and \\"free trade\\", protest in Seattle, growth of a movement, a new vision. <br />An inspiring read for those interested in food, farming and globalization.	2003-03-13
US	43849703	R53WS6DXNB1BN	0786708395	838231813	Garnethill: A Novel of Crime	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Page turning Who Done It? style mystery	Bleak, who done it style mystery set in a seedy area of Glasgow with an unlikely heroine for the main character, an adult survivor of incest & family dysfunction. Maureen O'Donnell wakes up hungover one morning to discover her married ex-boyfriend tied to a chair in her living room, his throat has been cut and he has been viciously mutilated. At first, as an ex-mental patient she herself is the prime suspect, later turns into an amateur sleuth and eventually solves the case herself using her personal knowledge of the mental health world & her network of friends to assist her.<BR> <BR>Some of the characters in this book are unforgettable, especially hard-drinking, cursing like a trooper Maureen, one of the more unique female main characters I've come across in awhile. Also her perpetually drunk mother, Winnie (no one ever mentions that Mother drinks), her brother Liam the drug dealer, the sisters - 2 total hypocrites in heavy denial, her family is hilarious, a comic tragedy. <br />While I enjoyed the book, I found a couple of things not credible and not explained. It was not clear to me why so many were quick to believe it was Maureen, when it would be difficult physically for many females to subdue a man & tie him to a chair. Also, I wish more time had been spent on the actual killer, it was such a surprise, what made him tick? I really look forward to reading the next book in this series, hope to see what happens to Maureen and her family in the future.	2003-03-11
US	43849703	RWYPW1H1KA2EQ	0345382846	905379525	Here Be Dragons	Books	4	8	14	N	N	Romance first, Historical Fiction second	\\"Here Be Dragons\\" begins in the year 1183 and covers events up to 1237, this is the story of Llewelyn, the Welsh prince of Gwynedd, who was successful for a time in uniting the warring tribes of Wales to fight against the English (Normans). The cast of characters in this novel include Richard the Lionheart, King John, Eleanor of Acquitane, Philipe of France and numerous other counts, lords earls, princes etc. The research that went into this book is awesome, Penman's style of writing makes these historical characters come to life, and it's easy to imagine them as real people. Perhaps though, too many events have been crammed into one story, sometimes years have passed between chapters, and there are so many characters and too many repeated names, for example there are three men, a grandfather, father and son all named Will de Braose.<br />The main storyline is the marriage and love between Llewelyn of Wales and Joanna, daughter of King John - she is given to Llewelyn in marriage when she is only 14 in the hopes of making peace between England and Wales. This novel is first a romance, there is much superfluous sex which has nothing to do with historical events, so much space devoted to falling in love, romance and male/female relations during this period of history.<br />If you love romances and are interested in picking up some history while enjoying a great read this one will be a page-turner for you. However, if you're a connoisseur of historical fiction, the Harlequin romance style could be a turnoff.	2003-03-08
US	43849703	R3TV4NQ3TO1PYZ	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	3	9	19	N	N	Interesting & well written but too dull for me	Set in North Africa on the Mediterranean in the 1940's, the town of Oran becomes infested with bubonic plague, at first the authorities pursue a path of denial, finally the town is put under total quarantine for months until the disease has run its course. People are dying by the hundreds each week, some trying to escape or smuggle, some engaged in the most heroic acts of their lives, no one can leave and no one can come into the town as though under a siege.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I found this to be the dullest thing I've read since Naipal's \\"A Bend in the River\\". In spite of the horrific events continually taking place in the book the story went on in the same monotone, passionless style from beginning to end. There is much philosophical insight in the behavior of humans in times of exile and stress from continual fear, but I think this author should have stayed away from fiction and stayed with philosophy or perhaps documentaries.<br />This book was like reading an extremely well written composition but it never engaged my emotions.	2003-03-05
US	43849703	R3EN6OMEJP5NM2	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	2	24	32	N	N	Twisted History	This book is a history of the world in 535 and following, the time of the \\"darkening of the sun\\", a event described in every part of the globe where written records existed. I remember reading about this long ago, it is believed that there must have been a volcanic blast that sent a black cloud around the planet and blocked the sun for a period of time.<br />The conclusions reached by the author here are far fetched, in some cases ridiculous. I am an avid reader of history and it is difficult to get a accurate descriptions of events and understand human motivations in the past, the further back you go the more this is true, yet David Keys has a definite answers for everything, solving great mysteries with simple, clear cut answers. He offers the real reason for the collapse of the Roman empire, why Islam expanded to become a major world religion, the true reason for the Nasca lines in South America and even has all the facts about the holy grail and what the whole legend really means. Simplistic explanations with historical events twisted to suit a new version of history.<br />I gave this book 2 stars because it is packed with interesting little details such as descriptions of the Avar civilization and the Turks, the Khazars as a Jewish empire, Javanese \\"Book of Kings\\", the Frankish empire and the Visigoths of Spain even if I believe the author's conclusions to be ridiculous.	2003-02-17
US	43849703	RONEV6VYBWI8M	0312420277	278415393	The Feast of the Goat: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another masterpiece from one of my favorite authors	This is a story set around the life and death of Rafael Trujillo who was a brutal Latin style dictator of the Dominican Republic for decades until his assassination in the early sixties. There are three views in this novel which alternate from chapter to chapter, the first is Trujillo himself in the last days of his life, 70 years old and aging fast. We see him as he reminisces about his life & his rise to power, used by the U.S. and trained by the marines originally to be a force against Cuba. Another view is through the eyes of Trujillo's assassins, all previously his henchmen, now working in clandestine groups against the dictator, and their individual stories. The character that begins and ends the novel is purely fictional, Urania, a 49 yr. old woman with a great career in the World Trade Organization and the only female side in this extremely macho novel. Urania has returned to the Dominican Republic after 35 years away to see her father, an old man now who was one of Trujillo's top yes men during his reign of terror.<br />This is book about human motivations and how ordinary people become hypnotized by evil. It is a universal story of the dictator everywhere and a lesson in understanding how it could happen.<br />Another great one from Llosa that defies genre, it is a thriller, an historical novel, a book about politics, and offers stark, penetrating insights into human nature.	2003-02-17
US	43849703	R14M9KR8I7M1UV	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	3	2	7	N	N	awful	I didn't make it very far, about 60 pages and that was enough, the author just seems rude and pretentious, telling the reader what the reader will feel while reading the book. I understand from perusing the other reviews here (even the good ones) that there is no real story, that this book is actually about the telling of stories and readers reactions and does not have an end.<BR> <BR>I suggest reading some of the sample pages before you buy this one.	2003-02-11
US	43849703	R1B8F6Z4GH8TGD	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Returning to a simpler lifestyle for a happier existence	This is the story of Quoyle, a total loser whose life has been so dysfunctional that he has come to expect nothing but ill treatment and ridicule. His father rejected him and preferred his brother, his career is a disaster and his wife flaunts her promiscuity in his face and eventually leaves him, taking the children so she can sell them. Following the deaths of his father and his wife, the loss of his job and facing a future as a single parent of two young daughters, Quoyle decides to return with his aunt to Newfoundland, where his paternal family had its roots. It is here in a small town that Quoyle at last finds a place for himself and discovers the true meaning of community.<BR> <BR>As well as being the story of a man's journey toward inner peace, \\"The Shipping News\\" is packed with sometimes really comic descriptions of small town life in more remote areas, tidbits of Newfoundland history, asides about seafaring and the demise of the fishing and sealing industries. The quick, short sentences in the first part of the book reflect Quoyle's crazed life, later as his life becomes more relaxed the story also flows more smoothly.<BR> <BR>I did not see the movie, but the characters on the video box covers are way too good looking to have been characters from \\"The Shipping News\\", the novel. The main character, Quoyle is an obese man with red hair and an unusual chin that juts out like a shelf, his appearance is a part of this story.	2003-02-03
US	43849703	R1RSTCGSWB1T48	0380778556	39495389	Rebecca	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Suspensful Classic Romance	I'm not really a reader of romances but heard this one was a great suspense novel as well, a classic made into a film that starred Laurence Olivier and won the academy award for best picture in 1941. A 40something millionaire widower suddenly marries a young woman with no money, background or breeding and takes her to live at his estate, Manderley. She is haunted by the presence of Rebecca, his first wife, whom she imagines her husband is still in love with.<br />I thought the second half of the book much better than the first, I don't know how I stayed through the first 150 pages, which is the same tiresome whining of the main character over and over. The narrator is so mean spirited, self-centered and just too stupid to be believed, searching & sifting through every conversation, the most minor social encounters, digging and digging and digging to find the insults she believes everyone is directing at her. Perhaps this character is dated and can only be appreciated through 1930's lenses as a sensitive, unworldly, eager to please young woman, but I found it hard to be on her side and couldn't identify with anything she felt. The second part of book seems to deserve the suspense label and really does become a page turner once it leaves the realm of the narrator's inner doubts about her marriage and moves to the mystery of how Rebecca really did die.	2003-01-28
US	43849703	R103SSDN1OUMI7	0452278651	223524794	Black Robe: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Realistic Historical Fiction	In this story a Jesuit priest, Father Laforge travels from the settlement at Quebec to a distant mission outpost in a Huron village. On the way his travelling companion, a young man from France, goes native, and the party of Algonkin sent to escort him abandons him.<BR> <BR>This is a stark, not for the squeamish, view of early Canadian history that was never presented to me in school and really helps me to appreciate the extreme culture shock that occurred when Europeans met aboriginal peoples, in particular here Jesuit missionaries and native North Americans. This novel seems realistic to me because neither side, \\"Normans\\" or \\"Savages\\" as the two groups refer to each other, is presented as good or evil though in this story and time the \\"savages\\" appear to have the advantage because of better adaptation to the environment. Unlike the materially motivated Normans, the natives do not own things or fight over them, sharing everything together, and they are the most caring of parents never physically striking their children, however the cruelty to other tribes including cannibalism and torture, the hard and filthy conditions of their lives, and no mercy for the sick shows another side.<BR> <BR>This book will not be for everyone there are graphic descriptions of sexual acts and horrific scenes describing torture and cannibalism. The language used by the natives is obscene by European standards and their sexual practices immoral beyond belief to the Jesuits, and will be too shocking for some readers. The banter between the natives is not to insult but a friendly joking, personally I found it often hilarious. If  you like stark, no-frills versions of history, you may enjoy this great adventure and first contact story.	2003-01-28
US	43849703	R1UGRCBQQ41SGE	1890132551	265754809	Genetic Engineering, Food, and Our Environment	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great overview of issues related to GE food	Here in North America the public generally hears very little about debates surrounding around GE foods, this 1999 book from a UK author is a quick read, easy to understand overview of GE food issues.  It is strictly food & agriculture covered here, human GE areas are not touched on.  Besides discussing safety & nutrition concerns, chapters cover such topics as control of farming & environmental pollution, patenting genes with a brief history of what's already taken place over the last 15 years, and how the world trade organization is used to force countries to accept these products or to outlaw product labeling.  There is a chapter on 2 journalists in Florida who got into a lot of trouble with Monsanto for attempting to run a television series on a hormone injected into cows to increase milk production.  <br />Some of the information in this book is quite shocking.  The sheer amount of money Monsanto has used to bribe and \\"settle out of court\\" tells me there's got to be something very wrong in what they're doing.  I enjoyed the \\"follow the money\\" advice this book offers - if an \\"expert\\" is saying there's no harm at all any of this try to find out who's paying the salary or funding the grant.  This quote from pg. 106 is unforgettable, \\"We paid $3 billion for these television stations.  We will decide what the news is......\\"<br />Lots of information packed into a small book,  also a guide to organizations and further information.	2003-01-13
US	43849703	ROBZJYP16PYPS	0452272971	999654006	A Very Long Engagement	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Intriguing mystery set in France, WWI	More than a year has gone by since Mathilde received word of her lover's death in the war, when in the summer of 1919 she is contacted by an ex-soldier dying in a hospital who tells her he knew Manech (her fiance) and that Manech's death was not what was officially reported. Instead of dying in combat as she had believed, Manech was part of a group charged with cowardice & to set an example for other soldiers was condemned to die by being tossed into \\"no man's land\\", the area between the French & German trenches to be killed by the Germans. Mathilde needs to know exactly what happened to Manech, has the money to pursue the truth & does so, and along the way it begins to appear possible that not all 5 men died that night, 1 or maybe even 2 may have survived, but if they did and were found they would now have prison terms to serve.<br />The author has given us an intricate puzzle, Japrisot's style of writing is something new to me there is no one I can think of to compare him to. This is a first rate detective story for the intelligent reader, definitely not a \\"formula\\" mystery, also it is a war novel with grim descriptions of trench life. The prose is blunt, there are no wasted words in the main plot, yet along the way there are so many \\"asides\\", little anecdotes and fascinating glimpses into the private lives and motivations of ordinary people during the war, the book is never dull.<br />Highly recommend this bestseller from France.	2003-01-12
US	43849703	R2Y7JN9FPVTZ4N	0747232679	801881947	The Brothers of Gwynedd Quartet: Comprising Sunrise in the West, the Dragon at Noonday, the Hounds of Sunset, Afterglow and Nightfall	Books	5	74	74	N	N	Medieval fiction of the highest quality	Set in 13th century Wales, this book reads like an legend of King Arthur packed with tales of chivalry, gallant heroes, ladies imprisoned in castles, characters with &quot;the sight&quot;, kindly monks and many, many battle scenes.  This is the fictional account of Llewelyn, last Welsh prince of Wales, told through the eyes of Samson, Llewelyn's chronicler and closest friend, and Samson's own personal history of mysterious parentage and his love for the enigmatic yet evasive Cristin.<br />The stories of Llewelyn's struggles with his own brothers, especially dark and wild David, his battles with the English (Norman) kings, Henry III then later his son Edward, &amp; the alliance with Simon de Montfort in the English civil war were all familiar to me through the works of Sharon Kay Penman, but I enjoyed &quot;The Brothers of Gwynedd&quot; considerably more.  Penman's style, to use an expression several other reviewers have alluded to, is too much like a Harlequin romance, gushing with characters that belong more in the 20th century than in medieval times.  &quot;The Brothers of Gwynedd&quot; was pure enjoyment to read with great attention to detail and physical descriptions, it seemed to me to have a more authentic medieval feel to it and was as beautiful to read as a fairy tale.<br />This is a long book but a real page turner, one of those you'll wish could keep going forever.  The way the English appropriated the lands of the Welsh, through legal trickery, divide &amp; conquer tactics and outright aggression made me think this was practice for treatment of aboriginal peoples in the newly &quot;discovered&quot; worlds to come.  I recommend this to anyone who enjoys medieval fiction or is interested particularly in stories about Wales and it's princes, Simon de Montfort or the Plantagenets.	2003-01-09
US	43849703	R2CO2NSKCV0FBG	0816638071	697324024	The Lost Steps	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Latin American Classic	This great adventure novel was first published in 1953 and many of the scenes in this book seem prototypes for others I've come across in Latin American fiction.  It is a story of a modern, educated, well traveled man, fleeing from the horrors of Europe leading up to WWII, to the Americas, who is then transposed into a world where the people still live in the stone age, a hidden city in the jungle and a bubble in time.    <br />Our hero &amp; narrator dreamed when young of becoming a great musician, but has long since sold himself out just for the sake of earning a living. He rarely sees his wife, an actress, because they both have busy schedules that seldom coincide.  One day a fated encounter with a museum curator he knew in his youth leads him to a mission into the jungle to find and bring back the most primitive of musical instruments and to gain anthropological insights on the origins of music.  The musician, who begins the trip with his mistress, ends up on his own cut off from civilization.  In the jungle he at last able to find an inner peace and happiness, he finds a new woman, regains his health &amp; vigor and at last is able to release the musical score he has always known was inside him.  By the time his wife has a plane sent in as a publicity stunt to rescue him, he does not want to return.<br />This novel is deeply philosophical, in the end our musician can no longer find a place in either world, and the message is we can't go back, also theories about early humans which have been arrived at only by studying archaeological artifacts can only be flawed, to quote &quot;New worlds had to be lived before they could be analyzed&quot;.	2003-01-09
US	43849703	R2KEE8OSN1JGLI	1587213974	561623864	A Journey Round a Darker Sun	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Dark Humor	Simon Lowrie is a master at writing erotica for intelligent people, definitely not typical S/M, there are no leather toys, whips, restraints, if you're looking forward to a sexual act on every other page, don't waste your money on this book, you'll be disappointed. Although there are some very hot sexual scenes, most of the D/S takes place on a psychological level using humiliation to control, and involves perspectives from a number of characters, subs & doms both, males & females. Actually, this book is hard to categorize, first and most of all it is a love story told in a style really witty and verbose, also it has the feel of sci-fi or occult fiction, perhaps because the emotional highs in this book are mixed with fear and absolutely removed from the real world. The author's way of comparing people to luminaries and satellites is interesting, some lighter or darker suns with lesser satellites revolving around them who in turn may have satellites of their own.<br />Claire is a breathtakingly beautiful & shapely young woman, good job, young son, many friends, she is popular with both women and men. Only 22, Claire is somewhat of an airhead and a real tease, used to having men worship her, some like Tristan even willing to clean her house and do her shopping in return for just a glimpse of her bare upper thigh. She meets Paul, handsome, rich, well traveled & well dressed, impressive car, Claire is the envy of all her friends for having caught such a man. Privately, Paul is a sexual dominant, demanding and bossy, who introduces her to a thrilling world of discipline and intense sex such as she's never imagined possible. As Claire submits to Paul, perhaps to seek a sense of balance, her domination of Tristan becomes more overt, and he is trained to serve her needs and those of her friend Bev who participates in Tristan's humiliations.<br />A rare find in the Erotica selections.	2003-01-08
US	43849703	R37NPP8WK84F2D	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Childhood Trauma	This is the story of a set of twins, Rahel & Estha who are separated when they are 9 years old after the tragic death of their cousin, Rahel remaining with her mother's family and Estha shipped off to his father.  Twenty three years later they are reunited in the family home in Kerala, India and begin  the slow process of reconnecting with each other and recovering the memories of what happened.<br />While this novel is set in India and involves the reader in politics I would not recommend such a sad book to \\"get to know\\" India, rather this book is about a dysfunctional family, extreme childhood trauma and the terrible things ordinary human beings can do to each other. The caste system and untouchability is illegal, but is still a strong social influence in the time and place of this story. <br />The author's imagery and style of writing is unusual, she has really captured the innocence of children, I felt I was seeing things through the eyes of a child, a world of colors & larger than life events.  The writing slips fluidly between past and present. <br />I rated this 4 stars because I didn't care for the ending, which seemed rushed to me and lacked a sense of closure.  Like other reviewers here I felt the sexual scene between the twins to be incongruous with the rest of the story, also I was disappointed that Baby Kochamma seemed to get off too lightly.	2003-01-01
US	43849703	R32SKY52SDDEX0	0156006243	536352805	The History of the Siege of Lisbon	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Mature story of love	Raimundo Silva, 50+,is a proofreader living alone in the oldest part of Lisbon. The publishing house he works for has trusted his corrections to many of their texts for years, yet one day on impulse he decides to alter a book, \\"The History of the Siege of Lisbon\\", by inserting a word of his own. Where the author writes that the crusaders on their way to the Holy Land stayed to help the Portugese conquer the city of Lisbon and drive out the Muslims, Raimundo inserts the word \\"not\\" saying the crusaders did not help the Portugese changing the whole meaning of what the author had written. His employers are embarrassed when the book makes it to publication and Raimundo is reprimanded, made to write a letter of apology and told he'll be reporting to a new boss, a woman, responsible for checking all his corrections. <br />His new boss and lover to be, Maria Sara convinces him to re-write the history of Lisbon with the word \\"not\\", and as he reimagines the siege of Lisbon, he reimagines his own life and falls in love for the first time. Slow moving, philosophical, this is a romantic & sensual love story, especially for mature readers as well as being great historical fiction. This book was my introduction to Portugese history some years ago.<br />Saramago's style is challenging as usual, single paragraphs that go on for 2 pages, sentences that meander for half a page, whole conversations in a single sentence. Personally I find his way of writing fluid and beautiful, like being right inside the character's head flowing along with his thoughts. He certainly deserved to win the Nobel Prize for literature.	2002-12-23
US	43849703	RUNKA4Y08WQ0D	0385264704	320747623	Sugar Street (The Cairo Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Breaking free of colonialism	This is the last installment of the Cairo trilogy, a saga spanning several generations of a family in Egypt during the first decades of the 20th century.  Of the three books \\"Sugar Street\\" is the most political with the pace moving very quickly, there are time periods of about a year and more between most chapters.<br />  After an intimate look into a Cairo family's life in Book 1 and Kamal's total stagnation in Book 2, caught between feeling and tradition versus rational thought and science, here there is much action in the outer world and larger political life.  The three grandsons grow to maturity in a time when Egypt is breaking free of colonialism.  One is a member of Muslim radical fundamentalist brotherhood, another a communist and the other, well...he too has followed his own path away from family  tradition.<br />  The Cairo trilogy and especially Book 3, Sugar Street can offer a great deal of insight into how attitudes in the Mid-East have been shaped.	2002-12-05
US	43849703	R2IF6FHRZMETUD	038531177X	648196262	Rain of Gold	Books	3	18	37	N	N	Huge Disappointment	This is the first time I disagree so totally with the other reviewers after buying this book based on the outstanding reviews I'd read here. This is the story of several generations of a Mexican family that emigrated to the United States when their village life was destroyed by corporate oppression, and it is the author's own family history, presented as a work of non-fiction. It really seemed like my kind of a book.<br />My problem is with the style of writing, at first I thought I was just reading an extremely bad translation but quickly realized the book was written in English!!... I read through the first 80 pages or so, then scanned every 3rd or 4th paragraph to the end of the book. I'd suggest reading a couple of the sample pages before making a purchase (try page 13). Usually I love detail in historical fiction but this was just too many slow, tedious descriptions of the most mundane events, the word \\"the\\" used way, way too much, every noun with an adjective the favorites being \\"big\\" and \\"little\\". This story would have been better told if half the words in the book were removed.<br />I'd consider giving this book a higher rating if it was listed in the young readers section. It might also be a good choice for who speak English as a second language.	2002-12-04
US	43849703	R36BUVYMDPYQFU	0385264682	752216879	Palace of Desire: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 2 (Cairo Trilogy II)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Egyptian Family, the story continues	The family saga continues in book 2 of the Cairo trilogy, this time with Kamal as a main focus, his earlier childhood devotion to religion has been rejected and he has become a \\"seeker after truth\\" searching for meaning in life. It appears Kamal has been modeled after Mahfouz himself, and it is often through Kamal's eyes that we view the other characters in this story.<br />If you enjoyed the \\"Palace Walk\\" then \\"Palace of Desire\\" is a must read. As the title implies this book is about love & desire, albeit Islamic style. There are some hilarious scenes such as when the father discovers his mistress is cheating on him with his son or when the brothers meet in a brothel. The sisters are not forgotten in this continuing story, you find out how their married lives have gone.<br />For me, this whole trilogy is a really human look into another culture so different than our own here in North America. People are people with similar urges and feelings, and will find ways to express or control desires through whatever outlets happen to be available.	2002-11-19
US	43849703	R35B1746YBSBG	0871568659	810065600	The Case Against the Global Economy: And for a Turn toward the Local	Books	5	9	9	N	N	43 Essays about the "global economy"	I first read this book in 1997 not too long after it was first published and again just recently, it is more relevant now because things described are coming down in the world. Some essays cover such topics as trade, the third world, explanations of GATT & NAFTA, mass layoffs in labor, the food supply & genetically modified organisms. Other writers question whether or not the idea of \\"globalization\\" is even sustainable, one starts to wonder exactly who is behind \\"globalization\\" and benefits from it 'cause the majority sure doesn't. There is a whole section of this book devoted to corporations and they way they function. Wal-Mart & General Electric get whole essays all their own, and richly deserved.<br />Usually books this accurate about the state of the world are just too depressing because the problems seem so entrenched and we're helpless to do anything about them. Not so here, the last section of the book focuses on community & localization and is uplifting.<br />I wish more people would read this book.	2002-10-20
US	43849703	R3IX010BZQBEIJ	0060931930	882375795	Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	A realistic pioneer story, great historical fiction	A saga-like tale of Norwegian immigrants to America, specifically to Dakota territory, travelling in covered wagons, living in sod huts dug into the ground, isolation, blizzards, planting & plagues of locusts, this book will make you feel you were there.<br />This story is also about the marriage between Per & Beret Hansa, a difficult relationship: He wanted to emigrate and she did not but went along with him, unfortunately it is all too much for her and she loses her mind. I think this book presents a very realistic picture of marital relations of that time.<br />The ending was somewhat bizarre and made me laugh out loud though I'm not sure it was supposed to be funny. I intend to read the sequel and will probably reread this one again one day, it's a great immigrant/pioneer classic.	2002-10-19
US	43849703	R1820HN1QVKEPG	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Richly Deserved Nobel Prize Winner	\\"The Palace Walk\\" is the first book of the Cairo trilogy, Mahfouz's family saga set in Egypt post WWI during the British occupation. The family's story is woven into greater events in the larger world as the Egyptian nationalistic movement grows in opposition to British rule.<br />The author's style of writing includes rich character descriptions, humor and great attention to detail without ever being tedious. The characters became very real to me and \\"The Palace Walk\\" leaves me very eager to start reading Book 2. The family patriarch is the central character of the first book, a tyrant that has bullied & terrified every member of his family but has a totally different private life away from the home.<br />As well as being a great family saga, this is excellent historical fiction, showing the beginnings of change in the 20th century in this part of the Mid-East.	2002-10-18
US	43849703	R29MX0MNY731JG	038531986X	69706494	Body and Soul	Books	4	7	15	N	N	Great beginning, Hollywood ending	The first half or so of this story was a page-turner, a young boy born into not so nice circumstances turns out to be a musical prodigy.  The descriptions of the boy, Claude, as he delves deeper and deeper into the world of music held my attention though I am not a musician and cannot read music.  <br />After the discovery of music beginning was over though, I feel the author had nothing else, after that every possible cliche that could be fitted into the story was, the characters were unreal and one-dimensional, everything was just too good to be true.<br />If you're a music lover, this book will probably interest you in spite of the lame plot.	2002-10-18
US	43849703	R364R85GJXU2FL	1573228737	595147475	Affinity	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow, what a book!	A thriller set in Victorian England, I stayed up late into the night finishing this one. There were many twists & turns and the ending was a total surprise, the ending actually left me feeling outraged. I will read this again sometime soon to see what little details along the way I missed the first time. <br />The story is of a high-strung spinster who becomes a regular \\"visitor\\" to a women's prison where the conditions are wretched. She meets a woman inmate who was a practicing spiritualist before being imprisoned and is still apparently in touch with the world of spirits.<br />I have also read Sarah Waters' \\"Tipping the Velvet\\" and enjoyed that as well, another Victorian setting, but more \\"bawdy\\", a lesbian coming out story. \\"Affinity\\" is for anyone who enjoys occult thrillers, historical novels or the spiritualist period in Victorian England.	2002-09-05
US	43849703	R2OQ6CMI47LNGH	0345450922	819656342	The Hero's Walk (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Family story	Meet Sripatha Rao, a fifty+ Indian man whose life is about to crash. His mediocre career has been a big disappointment to his mother, his marriage has long gone stale, his son is a political revolutionary, his sister is 40 something and still living with him, and he carries a great bitterness over the daughter he has not spoken to and banished from home years ago for marrying a white Canadian. Things come to a head when his daughter and her husband are killed in a car accident in Vancouver and the Canadian born granddaughter he's never met comes to India to live with them.<br />A really intense reading experience about a family in crisis though the ending seemed a little rushed & not really credible.	2002-09-03
US	43849703	R2K34M6FDBEBP7	1556524412	199514156	The Egyptian: A Novel (Rediscovered Classics)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Masterpiece of Historical Fiction	Recently read this book for the first time and I know it won't be the last, this is one of the best works of historical fiction I've ever read and a timeless piece of literature.  Originally published in Finnish during the 1940's and set in ancient Egypt around the 14th century BC, it is still a story very relevant to modern times.<br />The main character and narrator is Sinuhe, a man born in Thebes, who has written the story of his life in Egypt and his travels to Syria, Babylon, Crete and the land of the Hittites.  I especially loved the descriptions of Crete and the people who danced with the bulls.  This is much more than an adventure or war novel though, Sinuhe is a deep thinker &amp; searcher for answers about the nature of man and suffers from much inner turmoil.  The greatest part of this turmoil is lived out in the battle between the spiritually motivated pharaoh and the materially minded priests and military.<br />If you are looking for a page turning adventure that is also really great literature don't miss this one.	2002-08-18
US	43849703	RRYQ3VEUOARPF	0553373684	13934161	Green Grass, Running Water	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great Canadian novel	This novel is set over a period of just a few days mainly in the town of Blossom, Alberta when magical characters including a coyote come to life to work a miracle among a contemporary group of native people &amp; their all-too realistic lives.  <br />So many characters &amp; stories in this book that I found it improved immensely on the second reading.  Creation myths, native history, Hollywood westerns, corporate aggression, the stress of modern relationships and contemporary reservation life in Canada are all intertwined, this book is fine storytelling.	2002-08-08
US	43849703	R21XLN2KINFMYD	0671543555	970271316	Mannings	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An American saga	Great 70's fiction - this is the story of Mark Manning who founds his first business at the turn of the century &amp; goes on to become a multi millionaire making tires for cars.  This book is very entertaining and I was able to imagine this as a television series as I was reading it.<br />I first read this book about 25 years ago, never forgot it and recently obtained a used copy of it to reread.  I remember reading the descriptions in &quot;The Mannings&quot; of the rubber plantations in South America and it led me on to read &quot;The Violent Land&quot; by Jorge Amado set in the cacao plantations of Brazil.  <br />This book would be a bestseller if it were reprinted today	2002-07-09
US	43849703	R1A86696DIMNON	0452274427	705687248	In the Time of the Butterflies	Books	5	3	3	N	N	It happened in the Dominican Republic	Fictionalized account of the Mirabel sisters, martyred during the struggle against the dictator Trujillo, this book is a real masterpiece. The author has a style of writing able to communicate powerful emotions whether of fear in the prison scenarios or sensuality in the women's descriptions of their men.<BR>A story of how ordinary people become involved in political struggle in spite of themselves.	2002-07-09
US	43849703	R24CES1UAMCWZL	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A mathematical puzzle	A great mystery for those who have some interest in esoterica. Everyone and everything is in this book, the Knights Templar, the Jesuits, the Holy Grail, Masons, cabalists, Rosicrucians, Helene Blavatsky, the Compte St. Germain, William Shakespeare, Nazis, secret societies, Marxists, Brazilian spiritual practices & many others all woven together into a mysterious plot. I enjoyed it a lot but I think it's appeal is for a limited audience since you need to speak the language to get the joke.	2002-07-09
US	43849703	R3VJC2575CDMT0	0679755527	119149592	4: The Son Avenger: Volume IV of The Master of Hestviken	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Life goes on	Olav is old now, and the focus in this last volume of the &quot;Master of Hestvicken&quot; is on the lives of his children.  The characters in Sigrid Undset's books come through as very real, long as this whole series was, I wished it would keep on going so I could see what happens to Cecilia &amp; Aslak.<br />Really great historical fiction.	2002-06-21
US	43849703	R1V0HLMOUZKK13	0140071083	514925319	The Haunting of Hill House	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Looking deeply into the abyss............	It took 2 readings for me to appreciate this book, the first time I read this about 2 years ago I just didn't get it, perhaps I was waiting for something more typical to happen.  My second reading just recently was more productive, I see the subtle horror of this story now.  Eleanor, a woman whose life has always been repressed in a dysfunctional family setting, had developed a fantasy life in her own imagination to cope.  When she visits a &quot;haunted house&quot; with others there to study &amp; record occult phenomena in a scientific way, she rapidly loses her mind and her already weak sense of self into the house.	2002-06-21
US	43849703	R3UMWW0Q6UE1HU	0679755535	333400376	In the Wilderness: The Master of Hestviken, Vol. 3	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Part 3, the saga continues	This is the most action-packed installment of the \\"Master of Hestvicken\\" series. After Ingunn's death Olav leaves for adventures away from the family manor. In the first part of the story he goes on a sea adventure and visits the city of London where he has a religious experience in a church and an encounter with a mysterious woman. Later on in the book, after his return to Norway Olav leads men in defense against the invasion from Sweden.<br />As usual with all the books of Sigrid Undset, this is a beautifully told saga rich with historical detail.	2002-06-15
US	43849703	R2SWEIB1SCV5OC	0679755543	936658262	The Snake Pit: The Master of Hestviken, Vol. 2	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The story continues	In the second book of the Master of Hestvicken series Olav & Ingunn are home together at last on Olav's family manor at Hestvicken. Their life together is not a happy one however due to Ingunn's ill health and Olav's heavy sense of guilt.<br />This is a beautiful Norse saga in spite of the depression of the main characters, the attention to historical detail is wonderful. Readers of \\"Kristen Lavransdatter\\" will enjoy the chance encounter in the Snake Pit between Olav and Lavrans Bjorgulfsson and his wife Ragnfrid.	2002-06-04
US	43849703	RNHDYXWO0IMJF	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Hard to finish	Set sometime, somewhere in Africa this tells the story of third generation Indian immigrants in Africa and post-colonialism when the blacks in many areas rebelled and expelled all \\"others\\".  I read this book because I am interested in the African diaspora, but found this book difficult to get through because the style is so detached, almost a documentary in the first person, however the subject matter is quite interesting and reveals a world I was not aware of from anything else I've read.	2002-05-27
US	43849703	R2HXYOBWR03KRX	0679752730	813841142	The Axe: The Master of Hestviken, Vol. 1	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A story of love set in medieval Norway	While this is not in the same class as the Kristen Lavransdatter trilogy which brought Undset the Nobel prize, The Master of Hestvicken series is a beautifully told story of love set in 13th century Norway. Undset's descriptions and attention to historical detail are wonderful as usual, but the love between Olav Audunsson & Ingunn Steinfinnsdatter is ill-fated and heavy. In Book 1, The Axe, Olav & Ingunn are joined together as children and parted by family disputes.	2002-05-27
US	43849703	R816FKAG70DA4	0804109176	990267161	And the Sea Will Tell	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent true-crime mystery	Two couples alone together on a remote Pacific island, one couple eventually leaves in a stolen boat and the other couple is never seen again.  Years later, bones are discovered on the island and identified as one of the missing persons.  This is a fictionalized account of their story and the story of the ensuing trials for murder.  The first part describes both couples and their trips to the island and part two of this book is the trial with many detailed explanations of legal proceedings.  Ultimately the reader is left to decide whether the verdict was the right one.  I agree with the other reviewers here that Bugliosi is a bit heavy with the self-praise, however this is still a great book.	2002-05-27
US	43849703	R308E6M0E93AY3	0449210820	828917815	Woman on the Edge of Time	Books	5	3	4	N	N	sci fi from the 70's more relevant today	I discovered this book through an another customer's amazon list of great sci-fi, what a find.  A woman shifts between her world and the year 2137 when people have found more environmently friendly ways to live.  There are some violent & disturbing scenes in this but I felt the ending to be positive & uplifting, a reminder that we all need, in our own small ways, to keep \\"fighting the war\\". One comment about some of the other reviews, I am unable to see why this would be taken as a \\"feminist\\" book unless it's because the central character is a woman & the author also.  The message in this book is about the environment first, then human priorities over economic ones.  A thought-provoking view of the future.	2002-05-03
US	43849703	R1WMM4J49SHQ9I	0679751750	419490212	Texaco: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	great caribbean story	This is the first book I've read by Chamoiseau, it reminded me of Gabriel Marquez's \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude\\", and is really fine literature, magical & funny, a caribbean tale of the island of Martinique.  It begins in the time of slavery on the sugar plantations and ends in more modern, corporate times.  The book's ending is surprisingly uplifting and postive.  It was hard to decide what rating to give this book - certainly it deserves the highest praise, however I have a feeling this book is much better read in its' original language.  There are footnotes throughout explaining original Creole terms used.  I would recommend this to anyone interested in Caribbean history or \\"universal\\" world literature.	2002-04-23
