US	43850200	R3S4B6Q6Q0VFHJ	0743221834	505763827	Food and Loathing: A Life Measured Out in Calories	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Highly Recommended	If you have read Lerner's previous book, &quot;Forest for the Trees&quot;, you already know she can handle any thorny issue with good-natured humor. In this book, she deals with her painful past, her issue of over-eating, and of suicide, and she also manages to write about these uncomfortable subjects with aplomb. It would be easy for these subjects to turn into melodramatic telling of episodes, and grandiose claims of healing, but Lerner tells her story with a light poise. She's a self-effacing writer, who writes for the sake of her reader, and not for her own service. This book will help and inspire many people with similar problems.	2003-02-10
US	43850200	R21M3X3OO5RUUP	1573228575	621480145	The Forest for the Trees: An Editor's Advice to Writers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Must-Read For Aspiring Writers and Editors	I've read many books on writing, and this is one of the best. Betsy Lerner was an editor for many of the best publishing houses in America (now, she's a literary agent), and her savvy know-how will help many writers who don't know much about the publishing industry. <br />This book is not about the craft of writing. There are many books for that, (perhaps too many) and Lerner is explicit about not wishing the book to be a technical tutorial on writing. Instead, she delves into the psychological issues that encumber almost all writers, and comments with insight on how to surpass those issues. <br />This inspirational book is a novel and refreshing take on the writer's profession, and merits many readings.	2003-02-10
US	43850200	R22K73AO8RJDLR	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	5	37	40	N	N	A Book of Small Pleasures	There are 33 matches in a box, hence the 33 chapters in this book. Every morning (each chapter), Emmett, a medical textbook editor (with a pet duck), lights a match to start a fire in the fireplace. Each chapter starts with a 'Good morning', and then minute observations on minutiae of life from an ordinary man. <br />Nicholson Baker's prose is effortless and light. He's probably one of the most elegant prose stylists writing today, and he clearly has written a gem with this one. His comic sensibility is sneaky and fun, and I found myself laughing out loud in public places while thinking about passages from this book.<br />The contemplation of details of life and the tangential fantasies that spring from mundane activities lead to subtle and touching refletions on life itself. This book is, above all, about what makes life worth baring. And the book's ultimate accomplishment is that it bares the beauty of life without resorting to building a dramatic resolution or an epiphany, but rather shows life as is, quietly and truthfully. One of the most pleasurable reads of this past few years.	2003-01-17
US	43850200	R3N7DJN4WA5SXV	158234342X	571795168	The Man With The Dancing Eyes	Books	1	23	33	N	N	As bad as bad can be	Of all my reviews, I've never given one star before. Surely, I've read bad books before, but I've been lucky in that all the badly written books I read strove for something; they all had earnest intentions at the core, their saving grace.<br />This book has no such thing. I found this on the shelf of my girlfriend, who received it as a gift, and attracted by the slim, stylish binding, started to read. And oh my...<br />This book purports to be a reworked fairy tale, set in an urban setting. 'Reworked' is a euphemism here, as Sophie Dahl just rehashes the same fairy tale formula without adding much of anything of original value. In fact, the only surprise of the book is that by the end of the story, you find that Dahl has actually succeeded in making all the predictable, formulaic steps a writer can make. An awe-inspiring feat. Her attempts at witticism fall flat; the repartees are lame at best.<br />The worst quality of this book is shameless name-dropping and product placement of all hip things and places in New York, meant as a valentine to the city. But Dahl doesn't have enough guile or narrative dexterity to disguise her consumer-targeting motive, and the book shows its plastic and fake heart: an exploitation of a post 9-11 New York swathed in a Sex-and-the-City aesthetic, aimed squarely at the Sex and the City demographic.<br />And the writing, I'm obliged to report, is spectacularly bad. Decent illustrations by Annie Morris serve only a lost cause.<br />This is a nasty book - a target audience seeking consumerism packaged as literature. Publishers (Bloomsbury) should be ashamed of themselves.	2003-01-08
US	43850200	R3R1SSU9S8L0D8	0375504850	640272356	After Nature	Books	5	18	20	N	N	DNA for Sebald's Prose Works	This triptych prose poem actually was published before Sebald's prose books. The word 'poem' is a loose word here, as words like 'fiction' and 'novel' were in &quot;Austerlitz&quot;, &quot;Vertigo&quot;, &quot;Rings of Saturn&quot; and &quot;The Emigrants&quot;. This poem is a progenitor of the later work, and has much of the same agenda as the books.<br />&quot;After Nature&quot; follows three characters: Grunewald, a Renaissance painter, Steller, an 18th century botanist-explorer, and finally the author himself. The book is preoccupied and troubled by the slow devastation of nature and innocence by history and man, and the book's end, as Sebald himself imagines looking onto the virgin continent of Africa in the times of Alexander the Great, is eloquent and beautifully melancholy as only a Sebald work can be. <br />This is as luminous and hypnotic as writing can be, and literature will sorely miss the genius of W.G. Sebald, who passed away far too early, at the height of his literary powers, in December of 2001.	2003-01-08
US	43850200	R2F0Q73SV964Z0	0140186255	12084147	The Street of Crocodiles (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	45	48	N	N	Amazing.	Bruno Schulz's fictional world is as strange, unique, and fascinating as any you'll ever encounter. He builds each story from a physical, natural detail or a phenomena, and imbues it with such hypnotic and poetic intensity, that what should be an ordinary world is transformed into a dream-drunk and febrile one. There is no gratuitous surrealistic maneuver, but an original world view, and this alone, would you agree, is a rare and treasurable thing in literature.<br />The stories all deal with the narrator (Bruno) and his family when Bruno was a child. Each story starts out with a beautiful description of the milieu, then moves into stranger grounds where psychological unease mixes with facts. Kafkaesque would be the word applicable to describe Schulz's work (as there even is a story about a man turning insect-like... in this case, the father, not the son) but as researchers surmised, there is no real evidence that Schulz was influenced by Kafka. <br />What makes Bruno Schulz's prose so heartbreaking is its ceaseless and painful yearning to remember the past; almost every description is a metaphor that is drenched in almost extrasensory feeling. In consequence, every object, every motion, and every emotion remembered by Schulz throbs with a realism that is hot-wired to our subconscious, to our collective and private myths.<br />If you like reading, you must read Schulz.	2003-01-07
US	43850200	R330DORQK08221	0393051161	998892517	Big If: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Americana Done Right	This book is more or less plotless, but engrossing to read nonetheless. One of the factors that accounts for its 'readability' is the subjects and environments that Costello writes about is a fictional milieu no one else seems to have a solid command over; and Costello does a knock-out job of bringing this slightly skewed vision of Contemporary America that is chillingly close to the real world. The novel traces the days in the lives of several men and women, most of whom are in the Secret Service, and online PC game behemoth corporation called the BigIf. Not only are the quotidian details of these lives meticulously delineated, they are mimetic in the best sense of the word; the novel's vision of America's political climate and condition of its people are dead-on, and disconcerting. The novel doesn't have a perfunctory 'build-up', but the there is a climactic event in the very end, the very last few pages of the novel. I was most impressed with Costello's handling of the event. In the hands of lesser writers, this event would have turned into an operatic coda of noise and unchecked bathos and forced epiphanies. Costello doesn't give in to such urges and remains true to his aim - which is to render a truthful writer's vision of what is going on, with this country, and with us. The writing is protean and restrained. There are moments of lyricism in the prose, but they are like a welcome breeze. My minor reservation about the novel is that Costello seems too bent on controlling all facets of the novel, and there is a constricting feeling you get from reading the book that hinders from the experience. (Kind of reminds me of Richard Powers, another great writer who's a bit too fastidious.) But it's a minor gripe that really has no significant bearing on the achievements of this book.	2002-12-13
US	43850200	R3SNYM2OBCG9PZ	189102437X	840904660	Gerhard Richter: Forty Years Of Painting	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Amazing Retrospective	Richter has garnered a lot of attention this past season in New York with a retrospective, and judging from this book, quite deservedly so. There is a wealth of examples from Richter's work from the past forty years, and the quality of the prints are uniformly excellent. Storr's critical stance and biographical introduction run about 70+ pages, and they are very helpful for a person who is just learning about Richter's work, and still remain informative for his old fans. The interview included is enlightening, too. This is one of the better artist retrospectives to have come out in the past few years. Highly recommended.	2002-11-28
US	43850200	R2SMQK32RBLIX9	0312284160	988918064	Paris Sketchbook  	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Fabulous Illustrations, Wonderful Gift Idea	If you've been to Paris at all, you'll recall some of the street corners and landmarks in this sketchbook. But if you haven't been there, these elegant and intimate illustrations done by Moireau will trigger your fantasy about the wonderful city. There is a plethora of competent guide/travel books about Paris with lots of pictures and photographs, but none capture the whimsy of the place like this book does. Mary Kelly's narrative asides complement the illustrations unobtrusively. Once again, Moireau's poetic portraits of the various areas of the city are a marvel to behold; I could really see the love this artist had for the city. The book also has a nice flow to it, so as you move through the book to the end, you feel as though you've taken a nice, slow walk through the Parisian streets. A lovely book.	2002-11-28
US	43850200	REVC2ZXUJVONC	0374121230	598950109	Child of My Heart	Books	4	47	50	N	N	Inspired, Beautiful Prose;Some Reservations...	You can read this book in one concentrated sitting, and the book feels like an inspired burst of breath. There are many passages of writing that are superb - some of the best sentence-writing McDermott has ever done... and that's saying something. Mcdermott's forte has always been rendering the specificities of life with a sober, but poetic slant. There is nothing really intriguing about the events themselves in McDermott's novels, but filtered through McDermott's eyes, everything becomes somehow meaningful... even sacrosanct.<br />This book can be called a bildungsroman, but unlike most rite-of-passage books which tend to take a sweeping view of a person's life, this novel takes a slice from a girl's life (a single summer, a few weeks) and examines how such a short moment transformed everything in the world for her.<br />The story is simplicity itself. Theresa is a fifteen year-old, a precocious babysitter, who looks after her young cousin, Daisy. On the surface level, not much goes on in the novel. There are adults who make up the moral landscape of the novel, and it's a tribute to McDermott's strength as a writer that much of this moral landscape is filled in through the absence of these adult characters... this vacuity that exists in the novel makes this suburban world of Theresa seem very lonely.<br />The climax of the novel (which I won't give away) is quite foreseeable, but this doesn't distract us from being engaged. The ending is as natural and inevitable as life itself, and although unspoken, it is quite clear that Theresa will never be the girl of fifteen again hence. <br />As I've mentioned, some of the writing is magnificent. The last fifty pages of the book achieve a kind of incandescence; I got one of those rare buzzes you only get from a special kind of writing. The prose alone can transport you. But at the same time, some nagging aspects of the novel got in the way of the story. It is clear that Theresa is fond of Daisy, but their relationship seemed too cloying at times. Undoubtedly, this is realistic; children can be attached to someone unequivocally. But it became repetitive... the constant 'poor daisy's' uttered, noxzema cream slathered on feet...<br />This is a coming-of-age tale as only McDermott can write it. Most of the denouement of the novel, Theresa's coming to terms with life and its gravity, the passing of youth, becomes apparent through unspoken terms. Sure, this book doesn't quite fully plumb the depths of the characters as her excellent novels from the past. Nevertheless, McDermott's insight is enlightening, and the book contains some of her most effortlessly passionate writing to date.	2002-11-23
US	43850200	R2B3W8PIGB01AU	031228666X	996446208	Plotting and Writing Suspense Fiction	Books	2	10	18	N	N	A Bad Guide Written By An Excellent Writer	It is true that not all great writers are good teachers of writing; this book only proves the point. There are points of merit. Highsmith incorporates examples from her own work, even from her mistakes, and the manner with which she discusses her own work (with a mercilessly objective eye) is interesting to read.<br />That said, there is not much original advice this writer has to offer. Much of it is insipid regurgitations of what many others have said, or what the tortured inner selves of all writers say in their heads. She even makes a disclaimer of this fact in the beginning of the book, but when I found out that she really wasn't kidding - that this book really had nothing of real teaching value to offer - I was more than disappointed, because I highly respect Patricia Highsmith as a writer, and love her books.<br />She makes much of the craft of writing, but even when discussing writing itself, she makes it seem it's such bloodless working out of logic. This book made me understand why Ms. Highsmith chose to write suspense; much of her drive to write, and her writing practice itself, is driven by her relentless desire for a commercial success. This is not to say that she did not care writing for writing's sake. But reading this book, it became apparent that commercialism was the governing force in her writing, and this approach can be quite detrimental to a young writer learning his/her craft, I imagine.<br />The best of Highsmith's books and stories had a rare blend of artistry and craft. It's a shame that this book contains no special insights on making art, but only exposes grating machinery of the craft.	2002-11-23
US	43850200	R25V5V6BTOM1XA	0375505733	70699899	Mysterious Stranger: A Book of Magic	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Great Introduction For People Who Don't Know Blaine's Magic	Okay, I admit it; I have a weak spot for the kind of magic that Blaine does. I watch all of his specials with guilty pleasure and unfailing awe. The best thing about Blaine's magic is that he convinces you that his magic is not about deception, but about manipulation of human will. The line that separates 'magic' and will/spirituality becomes blurred when he does his shows, and that's why he is one of the most compelling magicians in the history of magic.<br />The book captures much of this. The background information on history of magic, etc. might seem trivial and boring to people who just want to find out about Blaine, but Blaine himself is a dedicated student of magic and values the history behind the craft he practices. The pictures are very good, although, like one other reviewer said, I found the Twin Towers picture a bit gratuitous. <br />All in all, this is a very good book, but after finishing it, I felt like I was fed a piece of a David Blaine promotion by some publicity machine. I wanted more insight and telling biographical details. Blaine is a fascinating public persona and deserves a more probing and in-depth treatment. But for the fans, this book will be a pleasant enough read, and for those that don't know of him too much, the book will be an eye-opener.	2002-11-15
US	43850200	RE58E4U0ELXIQ	0810912279	381801255	Joseph Cornell: Master of Dreams	Books	5	71	72	N	N	An Excellent Primer On Cornell and His Work	Finally, a beautiful, comprehensive book about Joseph Cornell and his work. Diane Waldman knew Cornell intimately ever since she was an art student (and through doing gallery shows for him), and this affinity shows; this is ultimately a book of love and tribute to a friend. <br />The biographical material is excellent. Most fascinating segments deal with Cornell's stranger sides, such as when at his brother Robert's funeral, Joseph put a sheet over his head and laughed, creeping everyone out, and explained it was only a side joke that Robert would have understood. Cornell was terribly timid in front of women (particularly the ones he fancied) and had a complete dependence on his mother (he died months after she did). Waldman probes these and other significant personal issues (such as his association with Surrealism, and how the younger artists that have passed through him have influenced his work) and examines how they factored in Cornell's art. The book is generous with illustrations - Waldman supports her points with not only Cornell's work, but with other artists that were influential to him.<br />However, it is the lonely and telling poetry of Cornell's work that is the heart of this book. The boxes that Waldman chooses to include are presented intelligently, and beautifully. The innocence and nostalgia of each box is lovingly portrayed. The Medici series - Cornell's especially heartbreakingly beautiful and mysteriously passionate work - is presented perfectly by Waldman with thoughtful commentary and context, capturing in full its yearning and ardor. Waldman has given us a book that speaks eloquently about why Cornell is an artists people will remember for generations hereafter.	2002-11-15
US	43850200	R3JWAAFWT9ICGL	1891024329	505766891	The Story of My Typewriter	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Good Coffeetable Book	If you are a typewriter fetishist or a Paul Auster devotee, then you will find a justification for buying this book. That said, I must say that the book is a bit too thin, both in volume and content, to justify a purchase for most people. This book is mostly about Sam Messer, an artist friend of Auster, who became infatuated with Auster's Olympia portable typewriter (those who are curious about the specific model name/number, it looks to be a SM 9). Over the period of twenty years or so, he painted the typewriter. The paintings are intimate and beautifully done; the best ones feature Auster in the composition. These are perhaps the loveliest depictions of a typewriter you'll find out there, and if you are a typewriter aficionado, you will love this book. Paul Auster provides a perfunctory anecdotal history of his typewriter, and at reaching the end of the book, I empathized with him (and many other writers like him) who attach illogical but mysterious significance to a writing instrument. The book is handsome, and a breezy read; you can read the whole thing in fifteen minutes - perfect for your houseguests.	2002-11-08
US	43850200	RWRIRXSR5WKI8	1891024329	505766891	The Story of My Typewriter	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Amusing Coffeetable Book, Not Much More	If you're a typewriter fetishist or Paul Auster devotee, this book is definitely worth it. I am a bit of both, so the book is quite an endearing eyecandy for me. This slim volume is really the work of Sam Messer, an artist who became enamored with Auster's Olympia portable (I think SM 8 or 9) and decided to paint it everytime he visited. The paintings are quite good, as a matter of fact. Auster provides a quick, anecdotal history of his typewriter, and if you are a writer, you will empathize how he or anyone can grow so enamored with a writing tool. <br />Is this a book worth adding to your collection with paid money? Yes, if you are into Auster and you believe in the superstitious mythical powers that all rational and intelligent writers place in their writing machines. In my personal opinion, this piece belonged in a nice art magazine.<br />If you want to get a book that Auster's work intersects with art, check out &quot;Double Game&quot;, a collaborative effort by Sophie Calle and Paul Auster. There is no finer blending of fact/fiction, art/literature in contemporary literature.	2002-11-06
US	43850200	R3GNREW8N57PX9	1891024329	505766891	The Story of My Typewriter	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Amusing Coffeetable Book, Not Much More	If you're a typewriter fetishist or Paul Auster devotee, this book is definitely worth it. I am a bit of both, so the book is quite an endearing eyecandy for me. This slim volume is really the work of Sam Messer, an artist who became enamored with Auster's Olympia portable (I think SM 8 or 9) and decided to paint it everytime he visited. The paintings are quite good, as a matter of fact. Auster provides a quick, anecdotal history of his typewriter, and if you are a writer, you will empathize how he or anyone can grow so enamored with a writing tool. <br />Is this a book worth adding to your collection with paid money? Yes, if you are into Auster and you believe in the superstitious mythical powers that all rational and intelligent writers place in their writing machines. In my personal opinion, this piece belonged in a nice art magazine.<br />If you want to get a book that Auster's work intersects with art, check out &quot;Double Game&quot;, a collaborative effort by Sophie Calle and Paul Auster. There is no finer blending of fact/fiction, art/literature in contemporary literature.	2002-11-06
US	43850200	R4Q1TYHS9EAQG	1891024329	505766891	The Story of My Typewriter	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Amusing Coffeetable Book, Not Much More	If you're a typewriter fetishist or Paul Auster devotee, this book is definitely worth it. I am a bit of both, so the book is quite an endearing eyecandy for me. This slim volume is really the work of Sam Messer, an artist who became enamored with Auster's Olympia portable (I think SM 8 or 9) and decided to paint it everytime he visited. The paintings are quite good, as a matter of fact. Auster provides a quick, anecdotal history of his typewriter, and if you are a writer, you will empathize how he or anyone can grow so enamored with a writing tool. <br />Is this a book worth adding to your collection with paid money? Yes, if you are into Auster and you believe in the superstitious mythical powers that all rational and intelligent writers place in their writing machines. In my personal opinion, this piece belonged in a nice art magazine.<br />If you want to get a book that Auster's work intersects with art, check out &quot;Double Game&quot;, a collaborative effort by Sophie Calle and Paul Auster. There is no finer blending of fact/fiction, art/literature in contemporary literature.	2002-11-06
US	43850200	R3431KI79AHDXD	0679405887	695943051	David Rockefeller: Memoirs	Books	4	21	28	N	N	A Warm and Insightful Memoir	This autobiography has generated much buzz just from the fact that the Rockefellers have been so zealously private about their lives. I must admit I read this book just out of a curiosity of an eavesdropper; I wanted to see how different the members of this &quot;American Royalty&quot; lived from us mere mortals. I was surprised to find, therefore, that I was very much hooked to this book from the get-go. The best parts of the book deal with how David Rockefeller refused to use his status to get by on life. His difficult attainment of the Ph.D in economics, His service in the military, and his failures as a father and as a man... all these things Rockefeller writes with frank and gentle hindsight. The sections about how his brother Nelson's ambition had gotten the better of him, and his disillusionment with him and life are touching. There are many interesting anecdotes, especially dealing with his tenure as a C.E.O. at the Chase Bank (esp. the drunken fistfight amongst executives at a company retreat), but this book of memoirs is thankfully devoid of sensational stuff that most autobiographies seem to rely on for readership nowadays. All in all, this book is just a very human and appealing self-portrait.	2002-10-23
US	43850200	RYFSCPCX57EEO	0465017290	637919837	The Millennium Problems 1	Books	4	19	19	N	N	An Approachable Guide To CMI Millenium Problems	If you solve any of the seven problems proposed by the Clay Mathematics Institute, you win one million dollars and a piece of history with your name on it. Let's face it; you and I aren't going to solve these problems. But this book makes a lot of what's relevant in contemporary mathematics and physics a public information and knowledge, and that's an honorable feat. Each of the seven problems are incredibly difficult to understand on their own. Keith Devlin does an excellent job of providing a historical and mathematical background for each of these problems for the laymen, and in process, reveals how the solutions to these problems would bring an exponential leap for the human knowledge as a whole. (Devlin does an exceptional job chronicling the history of math and physics that led to Yang-Mills Theory and Mass Gap, as well as Poincare Conjecture and P vs NP) For more detailed exposition of these problems, you are better off reading the official CMI book, or checking the official website of CMI, [url]. But if you are interested in the importance of these problems and the implications the solutions to these problems can have on our lives, this book will more than suffice.	2002-10-23
US	43850200	R3PX73VL1WOOD6	0316328197	318630148	Schrodinger's Kittens and the Search for Reality: Solving the Quantum Mysteries	Books	3	11	13	N	N	An Adequate Primer For Quantum Physics and Its Mysteries	This book does a great job of describing the principles of quantum mechanics and problems introduced by its notions. Gribbin does a great job of building a mystery of what may be possible (i.e. the unified field theory, a.k.a. the theory of everything). However, the book comes short of delivering upon its promise. Gribbin and the editor basically rifle through proposed theories and solutions of various physicists and ultimately say regarding these theories &quot;I kind of like it&quot; or &quot;I don't like it.&quot; There is no in-depth probing of the theories, but glib judgments. The book, in those sections, has an unpleasant effect of reading like a transcript of a dilettante grad student running his mouth in a campus cafe. There are better written, and more elegantly explored books than this book. Kaku's books deserve a special mention, and for its simplicity, Hawkings' &quot;Black Holes and Baby Universes&quot;.	2002-10-21
US	43850200	R1S4BALUW8LW97	0738201693	353609964	Doubt And Certainty: The Celebrated Academy Debates On Science, Mysticism Reality (Helix Books)	Books	2	9	12	N	N	Great Premise For a Science Book, But Fails To Deliver	There is much to commend in this book. The sheer scope and breadth of subjects it covers are amazing. The premise of the book is interesting and novel: a fictional version of Plato's Academy debating the issues at hand in a series of questions and answers. However, many issues are covered too glibly, especially ones dealing with quantum mechanics and unified theories. Another problem is Tony Rothman's prose stylization of the material. George Sudarshan, the scientist of the writing duo, does an admirable job of explaining the properties, but much of the information is mangled by Rothman's antic writing and examples. It makes the book seem gimmicky, and much of it, truthfully, is bad, ornery writing that almost single-handedly hampers the book's service to inform the reader. The book has its merits of covering a vast amount of scientific knowledge, and is even entertaining to read in spurts. But if you're looking for books that deal with subjects more in-depth and appropriately, or those that are written in more truthful, elegant prose, look elsewhere.	2002-10-21
US	43850200	R10TT1O5DO0U33	0865475822	385567614	American Ground: Unbuilding the World Trade Center	Books	5	32	40	N	N	A Powerful, Sobering Analysis of the 9/11 Aftermath	There is no other book that I've read so far, that deconstructs 9/11 and its chaotic aftermath with such honest and probing insight than this book by Langewiesche. The book is worth its value alone by its finely reported details and exceptionally calibrated character sketches of the men involved with the recovery effort. But it is Langewiesche's unflinching and brave observations that puts this book in a different class from other 9/11 books. <br />Langewiesche had the privilege of being the only reporter allowed at the Ground Zero during the recovery effort, and so had the unique opportunity to witness everything firsthand. And as a witness, his accounts cut through the usual maudlin kitsch of the reports we're used to having from the media - the crying firemen, and cinematic shots of tattered American flag unfurling in the clouds of smoke, etc. Langewiesche probes the darker matters at hand: the curious fascination with such a calamity by the members involved in the recovery effort, the altruistic motive of the workers quickly turning ugly and partisan, and the self-righteous, self-pitying, and spotlight-seeking hubris of many firefighters that threatened at times to slow down the effort. Langewiesche does praise the heart and efforts of the firefighters. But by cutting through the sentimental construct of the typical images of 9/11 (especially the images of firefighter-the-saint), he reveals a true and gripping account of the chaotic politics at work on the Ground Zero.<br />This book feels bigger than the immediate issue it deals with (the recovery effort) because the impulses and motives of the people involved with the recovery effort are hot-wired to  something universal. Langewiesche examines why some men thrive in such situations while others wilt. Why, despite the horrific calamity of such a disaster, men are seduced and fascinated by its terrible sublimity. This book not only gives a most vivid and searing account of 9/11, it searches through and navigatesthe darker chambers of our hearts. I don't have enough superlatives for this terrific, monumental, and ultimately moving book.	2002-10-21
US	43850200	R1LJH2IPOWVX6O	0060002093	122576315	Ignorance: A Novel	Books	4	20	25	N	N	Kundera's Great Return	This is a fine return to form for Kundera. His two previous novels, \\"Slowness\\" and \\"Identity\\" suffered from authorial interjections that bordered on being esoteric, and at worst, willful and pretentious. Kundera has used such narrative technique ever since he started writing, but with his 'French novels', these narrative intrusions seemed trivial and off-putting.<br />Although written in French, \\"Ignorance\\" retrieves the thematic verve of Kundera's early great Czech novels. The book deals with themes of nostalgia, memory, and the Great Return, which were also featured prominently in Kundera's earlier novels. The narrative asides that seemed so grating and annoying in his two previous novels seem powerfully relevant here. Even the usual Nietzschean philology that Kundera does that usually rubs me the wrong way is intriguing and meaningful, when in the beginning of the novel Kundera contemplates the word 'nostos' and introduces the theme of nostalgia by the way of Odysseus, then our main characters, Josef and Irena.<br />Both Josef and Irena are emigrants, returning to Czechoslovakia. Both have lost their spouses. Irena has taken up a partner since, but Josef resolves to live as if his wife hasn't really died. The parts describing Josef coping with his wife's death have haunting, lyrical power that's been absent from Kundera's recent, emotionally aloof offerings. They are utterly moving, and even when read apart from the whole novel (Granta #78 excerpted Josef parts of the novel into a short story), it carries an emotional resonance that won't easily detach itself from your mind.<br />The climax of the novel comes towards the end when Josef and Irena meet. All the themes of the novel come together in the aftermath of this meeting, and although it seems typical for Kundera to find an insight to everything in sexual politics, the emotional attach/detachments of these characters seem so real, the recurrent mannerism of the author becomes a secondary issue.<br />The bookis slight, compared to Kundera's Czech novels. It is not to say the issues dealt within this book are slight by any means. In \\"The Art of the Novel\\", and other interviews, Kundera has explicitly stated his disenchantment with the big novel form, preferring a form that is more concise and comic. With this novel, the concision only crystallises and accentuates the ideas explored by Kundera. <br />Kundera does a fine job of revisiting the old themes of his earlier works, but in the time since those books, many writers have traversed in the same thematic grounds of memory and nostalgia more poignantly, with more immediacy. (One writer, that comes to mind, is the recently deceased W.G. Sebald.) But all it all, this novel is an elegant contemplation by a master of contemporary fiction.	2002-10-21
US	43850200	R2ZWNWDPSBIORN	0553374117	394271416	Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Clear Primer Of Quantum Mechanics and Beyond For Laymen	This book is an excellent introduction to what is going on in the world of contemporary physics and mathematics for people without a scientific background. I know a lot of people who have actually bought Hawkings' massively popular and influential &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; and &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell&quot; and not read or understood these sometimes esoteric books. They should have picked up this book instead. <br />Most of the big ideas that Hawkings deals with in other books are in this slim volume as well. He treads through the intricacies of quantum mechanics and Einstein's general relativity with much aplomb and wit. The proposition of finding a Theory of Everything - its possibility - is presented with clear and logical explanation. His autobiographical account of living with his condition is also handled with humor and lightness.<br />All in all, this book is the most appropriate introduction to a fascinating physicist and the questions in physics he tries to answer. Before reading Hawkings' other books, read this one.	2002-10-17
US	43850200	R1249ZD7947K6H	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Excellent Survey of What Lies Beyond Quantum Mechanics	This is an amazing book. Kaku, a physicist at Princeton, has written one of the best surveys of what modern scientists and mathematicians are struggling with - namely resolving the paradox of reconciling quantum mechanics with Einstein's theory of gravity to come to the Theory of Everything, which would explain our universe from its beginning to its eventual end. Kaku writes that in mathematics and theory, it is simpler and more elegant to come at such a theory when dealing with higher dimensions, and thereby introduces ideas such as superstring theory, which works strangely enough, in only 10 and 26 dimensions. Although Kaku deals with the fascinating ideas of parallel worlds, time travel and etc., he examines and approaches these ideas not with a feverish enthusiasm of a sci-fi hack, but with a sober scientific analysis; he quickly puts down many of these sci-fi ideas on scientific grounds while proposing a tantalizing possibility of existence of others.<br />It's not these ideas themselves but Kaku's presentation of them that deserves merit. These ideas have been written about before by other writer/scientists, but never have all the ideas been so convincingly unified and energetically explained for all people. I have no background in science, and found this book fascinating to read for its ideas and passion. There are humorous biographical and autobiographical anecdotes. Many of the concepts are illustrated (albeit a bit poorly), and Kaku does an excellent job of giving us examples for visualization of a concept that he wants to get across.<br />This is an excellent book that serves as an important introduction to one of the central inquiries of modern physics - finding a unified theory to explain the nature of the universe itself.	2002-10-17
US	43850200	RT9XFH1ZCTVN8	1860469868	520438514	Haruki Murakami and the Music of Words	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good Primer To Murakami's Work - But Not a Good Biography	Having been Murakami's translator for many of his best novels and stories, Jay Rubin has written a solid introduction to Murakami's work in general. There are many great insights in this book, especially dealing with the aspect of translating Murakami's Japanese itself. The most helpful of these was the differentiation of the two versions of Japanese first-person narration - boku and watashi - and problems for this kind of narration to translate properly into English. Since most Japanese literature (according to Rubin) features these first-person narration techniques and not a third-person one (a 'default' narration of western literature), Murakami's narration could seem very interior. This insight helped me understand why Murakami seemed to heavily favor such a narrative technique (which I tended to view as a monotonous trait)- it's a cultural difference, rather than a writerly one. <br />The biographical information of Murakami is sketchy at best, though. Much of it is regurgitated pastiche of already existent info. As I was looking forward to find out about the man who wrote about such fantastic things, I was disappointed to find out the psychological probing of any kind was absent. <br />But get this book if you don't know much about Murakami or his work - it's an excellent introduction.	2002-10-17
US	43850200	R2ODUKRDHJI3C9	0374119163	44399075	Letters to a Young Novelist	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Concise, Real, and Enlightening	This book is written as a series of letters to an anonymous, aspiring novelist. Obviously it is fashioned after Rilke's \\"Letters to a Young Poet\\", and although somewhat cheeky, the style and tone of these pseudo-letters fit Mario Vargas Llosa's objectives in writing.<br />Unlike some of the mainstream writing tutorials that are around, this volume, although slight in page length, has genuine and truly original insights that will help your writing tremendously. For example, whereas most writing instructors teaach you to stick to one point-of-view, Vargas Llosa says one of the most unbending rules in fiction is that no novel sticks to one kind of point-of-view, that it subtly changes. There are equally startling and persuasive directives regarding spatial and temporal matters in fiction.<br />The book is fun to read as well; only a novelist of Vargas Llosa's caliber can dismiss many of the so-called 'classics' and not seem vindictive and/or crazy. To fully understand this book (although not totally necessary), a reader should have at least a passing knowledge of the writers and their works that Vargas Llosa invokes as examples. i.e. Proust, Flaubert, Robbes-Grillet, etc. <br />If you are an aspiring writer, chances are good that this wry book will be an indispensable guide. Highly recommended.	2002-08-17
US	43850200	R16X8Q0DOAJR4Z	0375413901	225791427	After the Quake: Stories	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Murakami At His Most Telling	Murakami, as a writer, has transformed tremendously since 1995, the year the Kobe earthquake and the sarin gas attack left an indelible emotional scar on Japan. One can only compare his last collection of short stories, &quot;Elephant Vanishes&quot;, with this one, and see that although still whimsical and darkly surreal, much of the willful spontaneity of his previous writing efforts gives way to a more sober contemplation in this collection.<br />These six stories take place in February of 1995, shortly after the earthquake and a month before the gas attack by the religious cult, Aum. (Murakami examines the attack in his nonfiction work, &quot;Underground&quot;) The characters in all these stories search for the center of their souls in a world where their place in it seems ephemeral and replaceable.<br />The first story in the collection, &quot;U.F.O. in Kushiro&quot;, is the more recognizable 'Murakami' writing in the lot. After the Kobe earthquake, his wife disappears, and Junpei goes on an excursion along with a box he must deliver, the contents of which he doesn't know. He meets two girls in the country, and while he spends time with one of them, she playfully intimates that maybe his soul is in that box. Murakami delivers this scene with gripping, sinister power and realism. The effect of the ending, and the violence that Junpei feels towards this woman, and at the thought, is crafted by Murakami to be primal and subconscious fears of the readers as well. It's horribly effective.<br />&quot;Thailand&quot; and &quot;Landscape with Flatiron&quot; are similary effective, if somewhat more subtly tempered. &quot;SuperFrog Saves Tokyo&quot; is an absurdist fiction where a six-foot tall Frog approaches Katagiri for help in fighting the Worm that is underground, to save Tokyo. Sounds ridiculous, but the story is effective in conjuring up an urbanite's fear about the safety of his society, the seemingly facetiousness of the world. (On a sidenote, if you go to the audio archives of the New York Times website, along with the interview, you can find Murakami reading this story in Japanese and English, along with Jonathan Lethem finishing the reading).&quot;All God's Children Can Dance&quot; deals with a boy whose mother is a religious fanatic, and his contemplation of the character and place of God in this world.<br />The gem of this collection is certainly &quot;Honey-Pie&quot;. It shows Murakami as a transformed writer, one that is more sincere of heart. The structure is a traditional love-triangle story, but the message contained in it is something so startling and earnest that it will take your breath away. The conclusion contains the character's (and hence Murakami, the writer's) yearning manifesto to write a different kind of writing, and live differently for people. To do good. This new kind of compassion in Murakami's writing is not only surprising given Murakami's cool cynicism, but rare in recent 'serious' fiction in its utterly honest and straightforward humanism.<br />I've read all these stories in journals and magazines, like GQ, The New Yorker, Harper's, Granta, and etc, but read as a collection, it gave me a different kind of perspective on a writer's evolving world view and style. A moving and fascinating collection from one of the international masters in fiction.	2002-08-17
US	43850200	R2I8NWDB0VN5KY	0743216474	479769502	Half in Love: Stories	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Best Short Story Collection Debut Since George Saunders	Maile Meloy writes with clarity, economy and honesty of emotion. Such precision in fiction reminded me of some of Carver's stuff, and if Meloy's writing is to represent some kind of resurgence in minimalism, neo-minimalism or whatever, I'm all for it. (Especially having read some horrible, maximalist 'post-post-modern' fiction of some young American novelists.)<br />Meloy has an interesting way of unfolding a story. At first, there is an unusual and complex external situation that informs the readers of the characters and setting of the story. And just when the reader expects the story to be about that external situation, Meloy subverts that expectation by telling a story that is more private and introspective. It's a narrative technique that is subtle - one that offers an intelligent and realistic epiphany.<br />There are some stories when Meloy overreaches and the mechanisms of the story are too transparent. \\"Ice Harvester\\", although poetic, reads somewhat like a fiction workshop story that goes through the expositional work only to serve a bland insight. \\"Paint\\" also has its effective virtues, but the story of a man dying on his own porch as his wife goes to sleep unaware is too clunky a mechanism to tell a story of a couple who fail to communicate. <br />Aside from these minor gripes, though, I found these stories profoundly well-written and perfectly judged. And fun to read, as well! \\"The Last White Slave\\" is a narrative tour de force, a narrative within a narrative, that tells its tale of morality and character of human love with a propulsive power. <br />The stories dealing with life in Montana are beautiful as are other stories that take elsewhere, in another time. Meloy writes about big, everyday things - contemplation of mortality, strains of love, and efforts and failures to do good - but writes about these big themes in a colloquial that we can all understand and sympathize with. Her most admirable virtue is the ability to write with a penetrating insight and empathy for her characters - a heartbreaking earnestness for people in general that I haven't encountered in short fiction since George Saunders. This is a work of a major writer.	2002-07-23
US	43850200	R2OKAZMB4SK06H	0375727167	565829447	The War Against Cliche: Essays and Reviews 1971-2000	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Martin Amis at His Best	This collection of essays and reviews should be recommended to everyone who has a healthy disdain for the elitism of the literary establishment. Amis writes solely from the conviction of his mind and nothing else; whatever tradition and well-regarded beliefs, he uses for his own argument (which often goes against the tradition). His essay on Cervantes, and the endless boredom that is \\"Don Quixote\\" is merciless, funny, and surprisingly well-founded. His reviews for Updike, Bellow, and Ballard read fine as a balanced retrospectives for their oeuvres, and his essays on Joyce's \\"Ulysses\\" and Nabokov are must-reads. There are times when he's given to much rhapsodizing and exaggeration. For instance, his analysis of Bellow's \\"Adveuntures of Augie March\\", although beautifully written, is hardly objective. It's not much of a review but a paean. These unsavory moments appear in his evaluation of Updike as well. This man loves his Americans. But all in all, these essays represent what best criticism can be: intelligent, highly informative, and always rooted in the common sense.	2002-07-23
US	43850200	R26GFSV9ISNG8G	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Whimsical Take of Apocalyptic Times	The whole story is set against the year of 1999, leading to its end. The threat of a terrorist act and killings underscore the human follies of this funny, but sad story. The cataclysmic apocalypse of the world takes a secondary importance to being left over by love, in loneliness. A very lyrical and interesting juxtaposition. <br />Daniel Clowes has a tremendous gift as a storyteller, and in this comic book, he conscientiously chooses the 3-act screenplay form, both using it as a legitimate vehicle for his story and also as a deconstructive techinique. His characters are wonderfully three-dimensional, and the way they go in and out of love is always shown through a sympathetic, but detached view. The mistakes the characters make, the yearnings and losses... approximate the real human experience. The ending is a hopeful one - even as the end-time seems to be near, another possibility of love keeps David Boring afloat. Although Chris Ware seems to have caught the public and critical acclaim, when it comes to telling stories of modern alienation, there is no graphic artist to best Daniel Clowes. Not yet. Impressive.	2002-07-03
US	43850200	R1Q4JS7K13MI32	1573222135	329938494	The Russian Debutante's Handbook	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A Hilarious, Accomplished Debut.	The verbal play of this book is phenomenal. The comic associations that Shteyngart comes up with are spontaneous and hilarious. The archetypical bildungsroman structure is both used and undermined by Shteyngart as the protagonist, Vladimir, doesn't really strive to understand, but just try to make lots of money and be accepted. The omniscient narration is used masterfully here, and it's a tribute to Shteyngart's power as a writer that this cynical omniscient voice also seems to belong so personally to Vladimir. Many of the descriptions and events are viewed both from a deadpan, ironic hindsight and a tender naivete of the character. Not only does this effect makes the story vibrant, it creates one of the more unique and likable 'authorial voices' in recent contemporary fiction. <br />The story itself is a simple one: Vladimir, the son of rich, idiosyncratic Russian immigrants, gets in trouble in the States, goes to the fictional city of Prava (obviously based on Prague) to swindle loads of money from rich ex-patriates with a preposterous pyramid scheme. Of course, there's a subplot of love, but it's peripheral compared to the main story of Vladimir who doesn't feel he's accepted as an American because of his Russo-Jewish heritage (who consequently finds out he is to be treated as a foreigner everywhere else, even with his 'own' people). Shteyngart's take on the immigrant experience is refreshing and funny, but also painfully accurate.<br />One of the book's flaws is that the ending comes at you with a sense of rushed purpose. The climactic explosion of the Foot and the chase is fine and thrilling enough, but the pace of the story  spirals out of the author's control. The careful dialogue work and characterization give way to facile internalization of Vladimir to bring the whole ordeal to an end, as he tries to make sense of the whole thing. The epilogue is predictable and Hollywood-esque, too, even as Shteyngart tries to blunt some of its saccharine edges with his wonderful writing.<br />But all in all, a very impressive debut novel.	2002-07-03
US	43850200	R21LNS6KFKLC01	0971904707	759813769	I.	Books	5	17	19	N	N	America's Best Kept Secret	This, in my opinion, is Dixon's most personal and emotionally satisfying novel. &quot;I.&quot; is constructed as interconnected stories that examine the various junctions of the life of &quot;I.&quot;, a writer who bears much resemblance to Dixon himself. In some chapters, the character contemplates his mortality by comparing his situation with his wife's. In a brilliant, horrific, and funny chapter called 'The Switch', the character imagines that he's bound to the wheelchair, helpless, instead of his wife who in reality is stricken with the illness. Dixon's strengths as a writer shines forth here as I. contemplates and imagines his suicide and its aftermath. The narrative technique is unassuming, but dazzling. Much of the book also deals with recollection and memory, and there are sections when Dixon recalls a particular moment, then stops and realizes something is amiss, then starts all over again by retelling the tale. It's a fine narrative contemplation of the nature of memory and the shifting veracity of recalled details and truths. Dixon's authorial interruption is never contrived, but rather heightens the effect of blurring the line between the fictional character and the author himself. No narrative device serves as pure pyrotechinics; the last chapter 'Again' is resolute and deeply moving as I. (or maybe Dixon himself) remembers and reconstructs the first meeting with his wife over and over again, until finally the story inevitably evolves into a love story of a man who loves this woman, regardless of her illness and despite his having to adjust his life for her. <br />The writing is never sentimental, and it's straightforward. Dixon's paragraphs sometimes run for pages, and they remind you of Thomas Bernhard's eloquent paragraphs - but Dixon's style is more accessible. This is writing that's disturbingly funny, affecting, and serious (in the best sense of the word). There isn't an American writer like him, and his recognition is well overdue. A fine book.	2002-06-21
US	43850200	R18WJ8CFFTJBHO	1573228281	454004836	A Gesture Life: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Pitch-Perfect Novel of Reticence	It is remarkable that a writer as young as Lee can write about a reticent, aged character like Hata with such illumination. Hata is a character who is reluctant to divulge his innermost feelings, and it's a narrative tour de force on Lee's part to balance and capture the narrator's reluctance along with the story itself. <br />Hata is a doctor in a suburban town called Bedley Run, a trusted man in the community. He has problems with his adopted daughter, and while he contemplates his troubles with her, the memories of his life as a young doctor in the Japanese Army during WWII surface as well. <br />Parts of the book are harrowing to read - especially the massacre sequence of the comfort girl by the Japanese. Not only is it physically brutal, but the emotional resonance of the act in the character is absolutely leveling. It is one of the finest, if horrifying, patches of writing I've read as far as emotional impact goes. <br />The writing is impeccable and poetic. Lee's measured, pointillistic prose serves Hata's narrative well. The fine restraint of his prose is there even in the most horrifying of parts in the story. Gone are the plot contrivances and antics of his debut novel, &quot;The Native Speaker&quot;, and the novel is allowed to breathe and evolve into its inevitable end. A beautiful book.	2002-05-29
US	43850200	R1FX1B9M61TFY2	0316316962	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Entertaining and Thought Provoking	Much like his often published essays in the New Yorker, this book is erudite without being preachy or ostentatious. Gladwell writes with unerring purpose yet infuses everything with his wry humor. The ideas in this book regarding marketing, how an idea or a product turns 'epidemic' are brilliantly thought through and well-illustrated. Not only is this a book about the nature of marketing and 'hype', but it's also a well-considered meditation on public opinion and its nature. Some of Gladwell's attempts to demystify how a small idea or a product can reach its 'tipping point' are less than persuasive, but all in all, this is a book of startling insights and acumens.	2002-05-28
US	43850200	R2W6UFD9JIGXHM	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant Reinvention of Hard-Boiled Genre	From the prose, you know right away Lethem is no mere genre writer. In this book, he subverts the hard-boiled genre while tipping his hat to it - what results is a delightful modern book that is as intensely gripping as it is witty. In taking on the hard-boiled genre, Lethem takes on the burden of (*gasp*) actually working out a plot. It's refreshing to see a literary writer who is unscrupulous about shaping a plot.<br />And the story is a good one. Lionel Essrog, a 'disciple' of Frank Minna who leads him and three others in a hapless detective agency, has to solve the murder of his mentor which he only witnessed through a wire tap. The story structure follows the hard-boiled structure of Chandler. But the characters and situations themselves are ingenious and hilariously modern. <br />Lionel Essrog, in my mind, is one of the most memorable characters in contemporary fiction. The Tourette's Syndrome he has is not just a gimmick, but a vent for Lethem to deploy narrative pyrotechnics. The subconscious rants and tangents of thought are made transparent in this book. It's a brilliant move on the part of Lethem.<br />One of the more lasting strengths of \\"Motherless Brooklyn\\" is its sweetness and earnestness. Lionel is as honest and emotional character as any we have had in recent fiction. As he remembers and yearns for (and to be like) his mentor Frank Minna, his release of emotion is straightforward and even, sentimental. It parallels Lethem's nostalgia for the old hard-boiled characters in Chandler's books and the style of writing itself (he directly quotes him a couple of times.) It's a beautiful tribute to a bygone era, a different time.	2002-05-28
US	43850200	R3NFLQQH0PA9G3	0446670251	437057713	The Virgin Suicides	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Lyrical Debut Novel	One thing I noticed first was Eugenides' prose. It's simple and unadorned, but has a beautifully measured quality about it. So no matter how gruesome subject matter of the novel gets, since the descriptions are so poetically filtered, nothing feels sensationalized or gratuitous. <br />The story is about the Lisbon daughters who all commit suicide and the fascination of a group of boys (who are now balding, middle aged men) regarding the girls and their circumstances. It is one of the more astutely observed books about adolescent girlhood and the mystique that surrounds it.<br />I have a reservation about how Eugenides uses the first person plural narration. It does have its lyrical charms - sometimes it sounds as though the narrator is a pseudo-Greek chorus. But when Eugenides specifically locates the members of the 'we' narrator, problems arise. It shifts the attention of the reader to the specific nature of the narrators' identities, and somehow the narration doesn't seem realistic or plausible. The narrators still continue to be haunted (as a group no less) regarding the girls' suicides and interview the people who knew the girls. This obsession doesn't seem realistic at all, especially when it's made apparent by Eugenides that the narrators are unremarkable, ordinary middle-aged men. Why are these plain, ordinary men still haunted by this event, and are irreversibly affected by it? The psychological motivation of the narrators' actions seems false.<br />Still, Eugenides captures the suburban life of a town, and the mystery of the Lisbon girls with a heartbreaking poignancy. The writing is consistently beautiful, and there's wonderful, spontaneous humor that flashes throughout the book, even at the darkest turns. A great, promising debut.	2002-05-28
US	43850200	R1X7C5BYIJG2IX	0375726055	877497311	Sputnik Sweetheart: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Lyrical Gem	Since the Tokyo Gas Attack, Murakami's writing has turned more earnest, straightforwardly inquisitive. He's always been a philosophical writer, never afraid to delve into metaphysical issues. But whereas his books like &quot;Wind-Up Bird Chronicles&quot; dealt with such matters in a more subversively sinister way, &quot;Sputnik Sweetheart&quot; is a heartfelt inquiry to why and how we change, where our 'true selves' are. <br />With Sumire's mysterious disappearance, Murakami plays a neat trick. The sense of dualism that people feel, of the 'other side', becomes almost physical and palpable as the narrator recounts her story (and Miu's). And this theme of dualism reaches its climax when there is an actual split of a person - a fictional maneuver, as implausible as it may sound, that works to perfection in Murakami's hands.<br />Because of Murakami's unassuming, simple prose, when there's a philosophical musing, it never sounds heavy handed. His metaphors and characterization are, as always, dead on. But the customary strange and scary irresolution of his stories (i.e. 'Wind-Up Bird') is not here. Only a gentle contemplation of it. I wouldn't say it's sentimental, but it's more directly emotional than his other works. Although this book is fine and profound, I miss the sprawling ambition and themes in his previous books. This lyrical book reads more like a novella than a novel.	2002-05-12
US	43850200	RDAS7IWUM38GO	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Masterpiece, but Lacking Some of Verve...	This story of Swede Levov is almost a perfect rendition of a man in search of American Dream, and how life and things beyond your powers, can devastate you along with the dream. As some other reviewer mentioned, this novel shares things in common with &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot;, in theme (as mentioned above) and the narrative techinique (a recessed, observant narrator). This is as muted as a Roth novel will get. The tone of the prose is almost autumnal, and it's unfailingly beautiful at all times. The unraveling of Levov is heartbreakingly sad. The anarchist daughter (probably the only &quot;Rothian&quot; chaotic character in the book) is like a figure from a nightmare, and clashes with the rest of the characters/world of the novel. Other than that, a fine retrospective of a certain era of America (Jersey, of course), and a man who dreamed its dream and wanted to, but failed to do good by it.	2002-05-12
US	43850200	R2NDB02HNA72EF	0618173870	420660459	Everything Is Illuminated: A Novel	Books	4	16	18	N	N	An Inventive and Courageous Debut Novel, but...	Much of the hype is justified. This is one of the most inventive anatomical novels I've read in recent years. There's a virtuosity in Jonathan Safran Foer's storytelling that will leave you breathless. JSF writes with elan and confidence that belies his age. <br />The sections that are told through Alexander, the Russian guide, are maddeningly funny. (Although the humor gives way to gravity in latter sections). Alexander, through murderously funny broken English, recounts the story of the search for Augustine, the woman who saved JSF's grandfather from the Nazi's. The humor of the reconstructed language also serves as an ingenious narrative ploy - there's a sweetness and wide-eyed naivete in Alexander's imperfect English when he stumbles upon hidden tales and insights. It allows the readers to discover such moments of divulgence from an oblique and unique angle. This deliberate mashing-up of language keeps the story fresh and alive throughout.<br />The Trachimbrod sections JSF tells are uneven. There are moving sections, and moments that brim with real poetry and philosophical insight. However, the events in the tale are more or less rehashed magic realism, reminiscent of Garcia Marquez, or episodes from Rushdie's earlier works. <br />The ending that deals with Alex's family, with his grandfather and father, is unsatisfactory and contrived. There's an emotional falsity to the tone of the ending as JSF tries in vain to tie everything together and bring us 'the illumination.' It is so trite and manipulative that it makes you wonder if it's the same self-assured writer who gave us the previous two-hundred pages.<br />Despite its apparent flaws, \\"Everything Is Illuminated\\" is a [heck] of a book. There's a freshness and boldness in concept and storytelling that has been missing in much of contemporary fiction of late (Franzen included). I will definitely read future writing of JSF as I'm sure his writing will only grow in maturity and eventually keep pace with his passion and courage.	2002-05-02
US	43850200	R28DCNI1FMH6JQ	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	30	37	N	N	McEwan's Masterpiece of a Love Song	This novel is an inspired confluence of traditional English novel with a deft and underhanded post-modernist fiction. At the core is an involved tale of a young girl's mistake and how it irrevocably ruins the lives of two lovers. But the novel is, above all, about an act of writing itself, as it is revealed that the events are also fictional constructions of Briony, the elderly writer. This conceit might have turned out facetitious in the hands of a lesser fictioneer, but in the hands of McEwan, it becomes a magisterial, and terribly moving tale of unrelenting love, and how art preserves such a virtue.<br />Many might complain of the slow beginning. The set up of the novel accounts for 1/3 of the book. For readers expecting white knuckle-inducing turns of plot, the first section will indeed seem tedious. However, McEwan's subtly overlapping narration of disparate characters is masterful, as it captures impressionistic moments distilled through different eyes. He effectively blurs what can reliably be deemed as 'fact', and slyly delves into the process of creating a story. This aspect is enhanced later as we discover that the first part is Briony's submitted novella based on her account of what happened that afternoon.<br />Then follows the war sections, of the British retreat to Dunkirk in 1940, and the hospital scenes. It is absolutely one of the best and most vivid war-writing I've read. It is mind-boggling how a writer born after the WWII could write with such devastating insight about a war he's never witnessed. The terror of the war, the pain that the soldiers endure are written with sober, but sublimely elegant prose.<br />The final section of Briony's return to the old house of her crime, in 1999, is slight in page number, but utterly moving. I won't give the story away, but the story reaches an inevitable, moving conclusion, and the last three pages of the novel are the most heartbreakingly beautiful closing pages of a novel I've read in at least ten years.Not only does McEwan give us the conclusion to the story of the characters, but he also validates and rarefies the art of writing as a reason to live, to preserve what is singly important to all of us: love. <br />McEwan writes all this with grace and understatement. His indictments or blessings are never overt. Whether he's writing about a minute process of cognition, a visual detail, or a contemplation of art itself, his prose is always beautifully measured, intelligent and protean. This novel is a tribute to love. The love between Robbie and Cecilia endures a child's grave mistake and ravages of war, and only through the process of telling a story, McEwan intimates unflinchingly, such a love is preserved in immortality. You won't read a finer, or more moving novel than \\"Atonement\\" in 2002. It's a hell of a book.	2002-04-05
US	43850200	R2T3I3KQ7BWXBM	0940322986	56987044	Selected Stories (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Genius Worth Rediscovering	Although his novel &quot;Jakob von Gunten&quot; is a masterpiece, the maniacal genius of Walser is more easily discovered in his short fiction. If Kafka's vision is maddening and claustrophobic, Walser, who deals with a similar kind of surrealistic world, applies a lighter, more deftly playful touch. Sometimes, the puns and literary license Walser take can be willful and test a reader's patience, but the sheer force of his philosophy and world view contained in these miniaturist stories are awe-inspiring, and are on par with the delirious vision of Kafka. Walser is a kind of a writer who can turn from anger to unbearable tenderness within a sentence. Many of these stories will move you and frustrate you at the same time, but all the risks he takes are still, and I suspect always will be, thrillingly modern and relevant. I only wish his excellent reworkings of fairy tales (I'm thinking especially of 'Snow White') could have been included in this volume. Walser has been neglected for far too long, and the longer his work languishes in obscurity, the world is that much more at a loss.	2002-04-04
US	43850200	R159Y62DKGFMYH	0415095263	496199573	The Continental Philosophy Reader	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Indispensable Survey of Continental Philosphers	If you do not have enough time to sift through all the important continental philosophers, but want to get a detailed summary idea of their thoughts, this book is an excellent primer. Kearney has done an excellent job of anthologizing selections of text that best represent each philosopher's thoughts. Treacherous waters of phenomenology, hermaneutics, deconstruction, and such can be navigated through these selections of writings, and there are excellent introductions to the philosophers and their work in the beginning of each text. Especially now that we are in the 21st century, these thoughts of the 20th century must be appreciated to know our own history - cultural, philosophical, and historical. This book is an excellent start.	2002-04-04
US	43850200	R3I7P4VC6H32V8	0743203968	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A Low-Key but Contemplative Outing from DeLillo	After his sprawling 'Underworld', DeLillo wrote this whimsy of a book. But don't be fooled by the slimness of this volume... the themes of love, loss and death are probed as thoroughly and poetically as only DeLillo knows how. <br />Lauren's observations in the beginning are masterfully written. Everyday events and ritualistic details are written with an elliptical, but precise grace. It's a deliberate slowing down of the cognitive process (of Lauren's, and in turn, ours) to plumb the mysteries of what we commonly take as given.<br />Rey's death resounds throughout the book, and the weird stranger/ghost that inhabits the house is one of the most haunting characters/ideas I've read in recent years. Lauren's sense of loss, and the physical craving to fill such loss, such sorrow are expertly drawn, with unflinching emotional honesty.<br />It's a refreshing surprise to find that one of the most maximalist, post-modern fictioneers we have in America is also one of the more intricate miniaturists. Very impressive.	2002-03-29
US	43850200	R1JTZKG2WOJ5PU	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	4	25	29	N	N	Luminous Prose, Slight Story	Reading Updike's sentences is a breathtaking experience. He has a rare ability to transpose ordinary experiences into rarefied grounds without falsely heightening experiences themselves. Each sentence, each event in the novel is carefully considered and calibrated, so that no sentence or description seems wasteful. The technical facility of Updike is truly something to marvel at, even surpassing the lyricism of Cheever. The way he writes about sex, adultery and guilt in this book is unparalleled in 20th century American fiction, and I haven't seen any other writer come close.<br />Taken as an individual novel, however, it fails to rise to the status of a 'great american novel.' Although the writing is unsurpassingly beautiful, the plot is a bit thin, and ideas it expresses, commonplace. Minus the prose, the story tracks the  wanderlust and guilt of Harry Angstrom, a man who still wants to hold on to his glorious boyhood, and seeks to escape his oncoming adulthood and life of ordinariness. It's a well-traveled premise for a novel, but executed and polished to a hilt. <br />As we see Rabbit Angstrom struggle to keep apace with his given life, we are meant to see the social milieu that he lives in. Readers do get an acute sense of time and place, but what of it? Not that all fiction should strive for the Meaning of Life (how dreadful would that be?!), but the feeling you get after reading 'Rabbit, Run' is that of caffeine rush which you know will fade. And it does.<br />I don't mean to slight Updike's legacy - he is one of the best writers we have in the States. And read as a tetralogy, the Rabbit books do encapsulate four decades of Americana with a sprawling and lyrical sweep. It truly is an accomplishment. As an individual novel, 'Rabbit, Run' is emotionally involving and a hell of a good read. But it moves us tantalizingly close to showing us what literary greatness is, then ultimately leaves us short.	2002-03-01
US	43850200	R18KG39TQZSV5Q	0375404538	712745860	Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Unremittingly Sad, Yet Beautiful	Congratulations to Chris Ware on winning the prestigious Guardian UK First Book Prize, the first graphic novel ever to garner the award. It is well deserved, and is a fine testament to his talent as both a storyteller and a craftsman of pictorial art.<br />The use of space and captions are truly groundbreaking. There are poetic moments and narrative strands that are flawlessly transposed into the 'comic book medium.' Many metaphors and symbols that link different eras and themes, such as birds, peaches, etc... are given room to breathe and function in the work not only as images, but as integrated motifs of the work.<br />The artwork is truly breathtaking. Every scene, every sequence has an eloquent, understated poetry... The Chicago fair of the late 19th century is recalled with nostalgic flair, as are individual miseries of the four generations of Corrigans. The sense of motion, spatiality, and poetry is perfectly judged. Many cells of the graphic novel speak as fluently as prose (if not better) about the condition of characters that inhabit this beautiful work.<br />I have only two reservations about this book. One is that the story, although fine, is a bit too unilaterally single-minded - about the pathology and sadness of being a Corrigan. The second is that no matter how amusing/informative/poetic the postmodern interventive snippets are that pepper this work, they ultimately detract from telling the whole story. (Not all, but some.)<br />As graphic novels go, I've never seen anything like this. Spiegelman's Maus books are textured better, and are better-layered in terms of narration and story itself, but the artistry, the graphic poetry of this book surpasses Spiegelman's work in my opinion. The urban loneliness of Corrigan is never treated with a backhand, 'aw-shucks' familiarity, but with incredible specificity that will touch your soul. 'Kafkaesque' is a big, dirty and derivative word, but it's a word that applies appropriately, without false grandeur, toWare's book and its story.<br />Tremendous stuff. I give this work 4 stars only because I measure it with great works of literature, graphic or prose. But this book will change your perspective on how you look at graphic novels. It's exciting what Ware is doing with this medium. He's doing great literature, and in his unique, transcendental and unimitable way.	2002-02-26
US	43850200	R25U5BX9WTIFVP	0375503838	647360922	The Very Persistent Gappers of Frip	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Versatility of Saunders	George Saunders, the master of quick-witted stories about a dystopic near-future that are despairing and hopeful at once, tries his hand at a children's book. He has not only succeeded, but has written one of the modern classics in children's literature.<br />The story of Capable and her father is movingly told, without sentimentality. Typically swift and effective characterization you find in Saunders' adult fiction can be found here, i.e. the father who barks at the sun to stay up, eats all his food after it's been dyed white because white rice is the last thing his wife ate before she died.<br />The main story of Capable having to fend off the gappers who threaten the entire stock of goats in her house and persevere the situation is told with incredible agility. The villains, the hilariously self-righteous Christian neighbors who refuse to help, are drawn with such surreal, but vivid force, that one cannot help but feel polarized at such disparity in grace given and not given to people, the apparent unfairness in the world. It makes you feel like a kid, once again, so unabashedly rooting for Capable and the good to overcome the hypocritical world.<br />Saunders opts for a gentle ending where everyone, including the neighbors, finds a harmonious way to live. The underlying hope and faith that present itself so ambiguously in Saunders' fiction are more openly expressed here. <br />All in all, a tremendously satisfying reading. If you are a fan of Saunders, or a well-told tale, you can't miss with this one. It is savagely funny as well as gently moving. Lane Smith's illustrations are uniformly gorgeous.	2002-01-31
US	43850200	R32ID9ZTPD86KS	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Dreams, Double Identities, Dystopias.	There aren't too many writers who can deal with metaphysical issues in fiction as deftly as Murakami can. A part of the reason is Murakami's style of narrative. His prose is more American than most modern American writers. Murakami is a self-professed admirer of Raymond Carver's laconic prose and he translated Carver's stories in Japan. He also has an affinity for American hard-boiled noir fiction, and the cool, ironic first-person narrative infused with laid back, unassumingly spare prose makes Murakami's stories strangely approachable.<br />But more immediately impressionable upon a reader is the sheer agility of his imagination and his fearless courage. Not only does Murakami tackle stories of high improbability, he succeeds with all the virtuosity in the world. In <BR>&quot;The Wind-Up...&quot;, there's a main story of Toru's quest to find his vanished wife, and surrounding the mysterious disappearance are labyrinthine subplots that traverse different eras and parallel worlds. Hats off to Murakami for making the stories somehow believable! There are surreal characters that appear and disappear in Toru's life, such as the prescient Kano sisters who operate through dreams, Nutmeg and her son Cinnamon who deal with the affluent women and help them with strange 'spiritual' ailments, Boris the Manskinner, etc etc... <br />The stories of these characters all have to do with a metaphysical search of some kind of 'truth' that is always apparent in Murakami's fiction. For instance, the well that Toru climbs down into serves as a portal that leads to a world where dreams and alternate personalities exist. Murakami does an eerie job of making the 'unreality' seem more real and pertinent than the actual world in the novel. It disconcerts the readers and makes us question the reality of the world that we take for granted. <br />It is true that Murakami leaves a lot of plot elements and questions tied up and unanswered, and a lot of characters disappear without a trace. But Murakami's project is not in dispensing solutions, but in calibrating our sights to see, or strain to see what happens at the fringes of reality. It's a testimony to Murakami's mastery that the horrors, lusts, sadness, and yearning in &quot;The Wind-Up Bird Chronicles&quot; are more palpable and immediate than in any other fiction I've read recently. The characters, especially May Kahasara, the teenage girl, come to life and stay in your memory long after reading. And for all his off-hand, disarming humor and narrative style, Murakami's metaphors cut to the heart with a frightening accuracy and have the power to invoke whatever world he wants to describe with unflinching emotional honesty.<br />&quot;The Wind-Up Bird Chronicles&quot; deals with Toru's loss of everything he had come to believe to be the founded and accepted fact of his life. Through his tale, and his quest to regain his life, the readers will come to realize that there's something much bigger at stake than an individual quest. It's of a nation crippled by the memories of its past(Japan), and for the identity of the mankind as well. A terribly ambitious project for Murakami, and he pulls it off with an aplomb. You'll come away from the reading of this book impressed, and more importantly, deeply moved.	2002-01-27
US	43850200	R20VUUHWO1102R	0395978270	253944481	A Single Shard (Newbery Medal Book)	Books	5	170	177	N	N	A Twist on Familiar Orphan Story	As a Korean person, I'm quite familiar with the orphan story tradition that exists in Korean culture and literature. When I was a kid, my parents told me they picked me up under a bridge when they wanted to chide me for some mischief, and I used to cry. It may sound strange to westerners, but the 'orphan under a bridge' is a familiar archetypal story that's been passed on through generations through oral storytelling as well as narrative ones. Korea is a country that's been through countless attacks and subjugations by other countries and empires, and the possibility that a child could suffer the plight of being an 'orphan under the bridge' strikes a particular chord of fear and pity for the Koreans.<br />Linda Sue Park does a fabulous job of taking this traditional Korean story module as a catalyst for a well-developed tale of triumph of a boy who shouldn't have overcome the odds but did. Placing the protagonist boy in 12th century Korea was a shrewd move, as it was the era when Korean art was deemed to be in its apex, especially its pottery. As we follow Tree Ear, the hero of the book, trying to overcome many obstacles to become the master potter, we also become aware of the rich culture and tradition of an exotic land.<br />It's a tribute to Ms. Park that she does this without sentimentalizing and 'orientalising' the world that she depicts. (Although I question the translation of the boy's name into 'Tree Ear', a la Amy Tan) We only get a deeply moving tale, a bildungsroman of a boy who came into his own despite the odds. It's a common story structure, but it works unfailingly through Ms. Park's convincing and inspired narrative and the previously uncharted terrain of 12th century Korea. Very well done. Get this book for your kids but steal it away from them at night when they're sleeping and read it yourself.	2002-01-22
US	43850200	R240WXMZ7CXFF1	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Not as Good AND Not as Bad As People's Hype	Franzen's account of the Lamberts is terribly moving and harrowing in parts. His command over language has become more impressive since his last novel, &quot;Strong Motion&quot;, and some sections are brilliantly and achingly told - such as Gary's inebriated struggle against his depression, Denise's adolescent acquiescence to loveless sex.<br />There's no one writing today, in my opinion, that can best Franzen in deploying the omniscient third person narration. He deftly moves in and out of his characters' thoughts, molding them expertly with the social landscape/significance. Every individual thought and action of the character is made to hold a significant social, and even, metaphysical import.<br />At the same time, Franzen's approach to his characters as an unbiased, omni-socially conscious narrator makes certain portrayals of the characters appear stock, and stereotyped to fit a certain mold. Even some of the most acute of observations seem this way at times. Enid and Alfred's failings especially are portrayed in this fashion, and makes Franzen's style seem manipulative.<br />The plot of the book is meticulously thought out and weaved, and I'm blown away by the intricacy with which Franzen has navigated through the lives of the Lamberts. However, mechanisms aside, there really isn't a compelling 'story', and Franzen himself has made it clear that he was interested in the inner lives of these characters over a fictionally contrived story. But as I came away deeply impressed, immersed and moved by the novel, I don't see myself assessing it as a work that will monumentally change the notion of 'literary fiction' as some critics and author himself had mentioned. <br />Certain self-conscious post-modernist touches are distracting as well. The Schopenhauer quotes in the middle of the book are needless and aren't half as pertinent to the character's thoughts as Franzen wishes them to be. Franzen didn't need to highlight the inclusion of these quotes, either. <br />Patches of writing are alarmingly over-written. There are laundry lists of descriptions and ideas that go on and on and on...<br />&quot;The Corrections&quot; is a movingly told downward-spiralling tale of the Lamberts. The characters come alive under Franzen's amazing account, and that alone merits much praise. But if you're looking for a fresh, authentic pioneering of fiction, look to the works of Sebald, or even George Saunders. This is merely an excellent book.	2001-12-27
US	43850200	RX7J4UAV99APV	0375504834	316489894	Austerlitz	Books	5	137	145	N	N	A Great Loss in the World of Literature	The literary/intellectual world has lost one of its more scintillating stars, when W.G. Sebald, spurred by a heart attack, ran his car into an oncoming traffic and died last week. He was 57 years old. I still haven't recovered fully from the news, since this man's work has deeply influenced my thoughts and the way I read.<br />'Austerlitz', then, is a beautiful swansong. It is eminently more accessible than his previous books, 'The Emigrants', 'The Rings of Saturn', and 'Vertigo'. It is not to say that Austerlitz is any less ruminative than his earlier work, but there's more of a divested narrative thrust in Austerlitz, and it makes for a breezier (can any Sebald work be 'breezy'?) reading (although Sebald altogether does away with paragraphs and chapters for the most part). <br />The translation by Anthea Bell... I haven't made up my mind about it. Michael Hulse had translated Sebald's earlier books (published by New Directions), and although Bell's translation seems sonorous and good, some of the tough, intransigent lyricism of Hulse's translation seems to be missing here.<br />If you're interested in reading Sebald, definitely start with this haunting novel. Sebald does harrowing things with themes of memory and identity, never giving into portraying the horrors of history with broad, sentimental brushstrokes as many storytellers tend to do.<br />After 'Austerlitz', 'The Emigrants' should be a good follow up read. Then 'The Rings'... and 'Vertigo'.<br />There's a book of Sebald that is supposed to come out next year on Germany's participation in the WWII that was criticized by many Germans as being too... well, as being too starkly honest.<BR>There is one more unpublished novel that is on its way to publication next year in the states (already published in Germany under the title, \\"Luftkrieg\\").<br />I only wonder if there will be any writer in the near future who will speak so eloquently about the act of remembering. Could anyone summon the ghost of Sebald one day, the way Sebald himself had conjured so magically and unforgettably, the spirit of Kafka? One can only wish.	2001-12-21
US	43850200	RVUWIEVM84NJ1	0375503315	838011633	Brothel: Mustang Ranch and Its Women	Books	4	3	5	N	N	An Intrepid, Heartfelt Take on Nevada's Brothel System	Alexa Albert commences her project on the legalized brothel system in Nevada with an equal mix of apprehension and genuine curiosity. She is cautious, wary of the prejudices that she might betray unknowingly while interviewing her subjects, and the prostitutes regard her with a same caution.<br />However, after the initial stage of this hesitance, Ms. Albert becomes a wide-eyed observer on the site, genuinely unwilling to be biased about her subject. As a woman, it must have been tough to eradicate her own biases regarding prostitution, as she grappled with how many of these women could subject themselves through such 'debasement' as she saw in the beginning.<br />Ms. Albert never condescends or writes about her subjects with pity. Instead, she regards them as her equal, women who have to make a living this way, either because of pathology, sheer financial need, or just out of habit.<br />There are excellent anecdotes throughout the book that are jaw-droppingly explicit. However, Ms. Albert tells all these stories with such unflinching honesty as a curious/fearful observer, that all the sexually outre acts (such as a guy asking to be penetrated anally, or a man who barks like a dog during orgasm) seem like ordinary human impulses channeled in a horribly sad, misdirected way. Again, Ms. Albert writes about these emotions without condescension, but rather, with real empathy for all parties involved.<br />As a male reader, I was taken along for quite a ride, as the sad stories of these women unfurled left and right. Especially the parts where the prostitutes' loved ones confronted them to sell their bodies and how they complied were very tough to read. It made me think about the nature of love and sacrifice in a way I haven't ever before.<br />In fact, throughout the book, there was a moral/ethical debate raging within me regarding the issue of legalized prostitution. I'm sure Ms. Alexa chose to let the accounts of the women speak for themselves, and sure enough, she doesn't elucidate her position regarding the matter on a philosophical, self-reflective level. It is a stance I admire, but I wish I could have had a little more of her personal opinion regarding the ethics behind the system.<br />But it's only a minor gripe as Ms. Alberta has written a luminous book about these wrongfully stigmatized women. It is the reader's gain that Ms. Albert has gone to the Mustang Ranch to research about condom use, but came away with a lyrical tableaux of rich, human stories.	2001-08-18
US	43850200	RS5MNMENXYIIL	0312282990	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay	Books	3	30	37	N	N	An excellent read, but...	I was enthralled from the beginning of the book to its end, and was entrenched in the plight of its characters. Chabon's prose is mercurial, to say the least. His narration is a muscular omniscient, time-encompassing one - one that intrepidly flashes forward or backward to illuminate on the current scene being described, often in a same sentence. Chabon's command over the language is flawless, but never clinical. <br />I've often heard people compare this novel to Delillo's &quot;Underworld&quot;, but apart from the fact that both novels are about Americana in roughly same epochs, not much is similar. Whereas Delillo's book is a brawling beast, Chabon's story, in spite of its epic background and proportions, is an intimate one. The intimate nature of this story perfectly suits and plays to Chabon's gifts as a writer. He has a preternatural knack of describing an insight of a character or a scene with pitch-perfect sensitivity.<br />Despite the fact that I enjoyed the book very much, by the end of the book, and intermittenly throughout, I found myself irked by a number of things. First of all, compared to the Herculean world and situation that Chabon conjure up, the statement that he makes is a very small, miniscule one. He doesn't tackle too much in the way of themes. I'm not saying that every novel should aspire to be a theme-wrestling, metaphysics-busting behemoth. (God forbid.) But I was more than a little put off by how little Chabon risked in such a big book. He is a far-too talented writer to hang so little. Granted, he evokes a lost world and its characters, telling their stories with admirable depth. But all to what end? What remains? This is a very cinematic novel, and the images and residual emotions of it remain... but nothing much more profound.<br />I don't know if it's just a matter of a personal pet peeve, but some of Chabon's prose-mannerisms didn't sit well with me, either. He is a stylist of language, seemingly capable of writing about anything with his own flair. But in some passages, he rather sounds like a young writer trying to do an American version of Garcia Marquez. Especially when he describes a scene in the present, and flashes to an epiphanic moment in the future to show the present scene's ramifications. It's a narrative technique employed to a devastating effect in Garcia Marquez's &quot;100 Years of Solitude.&quot; In fact, many descriptions in Chabon's book, especially ones describing surreal sequences, or quasi-absurdist moments seem like American echoes of Garcia Marquez's book. Even the mysterious magician mentor of Joe Kavalier, Bernard Kornblum, who flits in and out from the beginning and end of the tale is a dead ringer for the mysterious gypsy mentor of Buendias, Melchisedek (is this the right name? memory fails me) who flits in and out from the beginning and end of &quot;100 Years...&quot; <br />I'm not implying that Chabon imitated Garcia Marquez consciously. He's a far too talented writer for that, and as I've said, this may be just a personal gripe, a prejudice based on my own tastes. <br />But some curious mannerisms, a pseudo-fabulist-magic-realist prose, and a lack of profound themes make &quot;Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay&quot; seem like a pretty movie with interesting characters that you forget about only too soon. Even against your own will.	2001-08-09
US	43850200	R2V9Y63DD81HLX	0375725806	718909823	Underground: The Tokyo Gas Attack and the Japanese Psyche	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Impressive tesserae of a sad incident.	After spending much of his recent years abroad, Murakami says he went back to Japan primarily because of the haunting effects Kobe earthquake and Tokyo underground sarin attack had on him. In the novel he wrote during his self-imposed exile from his land, &quot;The Wind-Up Bird Chronicles&quot;, Murakami ponders the subterranean world that exists underneath modern Japan. Although &quot;Underground&quot; is a nonfiction book, mostly interview accounts of the tragedy, in a sheer naturalistic fashion typical of any Murakami work, a fascinating narrative and themes emerge.<br />The first part of the book deals with the accounts of the victims and the relatives of the victims. At first, the stories seem a bit monotonous and quotidian. However, one gets a sense that Murakami, through these droning accounts, is not only sharing the actual event and its memories, but the lives of these ordinary people, and what happens to even the most ordinary of us. Some terrific and sad interviews emerge, especially the one that deals with a girl who's slipped into a coma, who's only gradually recovering. Murakami reconstructs his encounter with her without any patronizing or beatific sentimentality.<br />The second part deals with the cult of Aum itself, as Murakami interviews the members of the cult. You get a sense that Murakami, even more than the ordinary victims of the sarin attack, tries to understand the members of the cult even more. Even though he unequivocally condemns the attack, Murakami paints a patient and empathetic picture of these members, outcast from the homogeneous Japanese culture, pursuing their independent vision of happiness.<br />The characters of Murakami's books, the nature of his books, and even the author himself, are independent, always striving against the homogeneity of Japanese culture, not unlike the Aum cult members (if only in essence, not by means.) It's clear that Murakami empathizes with the cult members despite the horrible attack, and despite himself, and views the ordinary salarymen of the insular Japanese culture with a sardonic tilt of his head. It is this ironic dichotomy that informs and enriches, and adds subtext to an already fine book.	2001-08-09
US	43850200	R26LK1WGNA89I1	0880014768	778225695	Dream Of The Unified Field	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A breathtaking collecton from a brave poet	Jorie Graham is a poet who is not afraid to tackle big ideas and themes. One of the most disconcerting trends in poems I've read in literary magazines these days is this shying away from intellectualism. So many poems are &quot;look what many epiphanies I can unearth just from my small private world.&quot; If you have a violent reaction against these kinds of poems, Jorie Graham's poetry is that antidote you have been searching. <br />She is not afraid to tackle big themes, metaphysical and epistemological. She doesn't hide the fact that she has a sharp, fiercely intelligent mind. But it's not just mere verbal pyrotechnics. She lets her knowledge surface through everyday events observed through her keen eyes, filtered through her sensations. In &quot;Reading Plato&quot;, for example, her vision of the platonic community becomes summoned magically, and almost improbably through the sight of men in early morning... fishing at the lake, casting bait into the water, and the horse hair that's attached to it. In other poems, she relates a spiritual surge of St. Theresa to a breakdancer dancing on the street, electricity that seems to run through the dancers bones and limbs.<br />These and many others are startling observations which lead not to easy, pat conclusions and denouements, but to further philosophical inquiries. No other poet I've read recently has drawn out so much from such minute, exacting observations. A work of a genius.	2001-06-19
US	43850200	R1VKFDW42LB7LF	1573228729	4143821	Pastoralia	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a seminal contemporary writer	George Saunders is changing the shape of contemporary literature as we speak. If you look at literary magazines and their submissions, you'd be surprised (or not) to find so many young writers imitating this man's voice. But none of them writes with a manic, but heartfelt panache of Saunders. In this collection of stories, Saunders shows his maturation from his debut collection, &quot;CivilWarLand in a Bad Decline&quot; He varies his voice better. Whereas &quot;CivilWarLand&quot; was primarily told through the first person-present narrative, you see Saunders experimenting with his narration in &quot;Pastoralia&quot;. His prose is more labyrinthine and supple in &quot;Pastoralia&quot; as well, where &quot;CivilWarLand&quot; prose, although very fine, tended to be a bit too curt and laconic. And the subject matter, you'll be hard-pressed to find another American writer writing with more conviction and love about his characters than Saunders. In &quot;Pastoralia&quot; there are characters who come back from the dead to live the life they could not live, and everyday losers who come face to face with a moment of ultimate heroism. No one really wins, and no one attains happiness in his stories, but there's an incorrigible hope that all these characters live for and yearn, and it's this hope that Saunders treasures. By the end of reading this volume, so did I. A very impressive collection of stories. Can't wait for his long works.	2001-06-16
US	43850200	R8EG54G6P3PE5	0786866683	851933744	The Last Samurai	Books	3	25	28	N	N	An impressive debut novel, but...	This novel is praised everywhere almost unilaterally, and for the most part, the praise is well-deserved. The novel is broadly epistemological, and the breadth and scope of Helen Dewitt is truly amazing. She is equally at home discussing the merits of Alkan as much as theories of aerodynamics and languages, and she imparts that feverish joy/thirst for knowledge to the readers. However, the characters crumble eventually. Dewitt's primary narrator in the beginning is the mother, then approximately halfway into the novel, the voice shifts to that of her son, Ludo. It is understandable that the two have similarities,being mother and son, but the voices are interchangeable. The two share a similar pragmatic outlook on life, are both autodidactic, etc etc... and the passages where Dewitt tries to differentiate Ludo from his mother come off as narrative ploys or gimmicks. The importance of the mother character is significantly diminished by the end. The stories about Ludo's 'samurai male role models' who must 'parry the blow' are very well conceived and breathtakingly rendered. Yet, I question the way she tells each of their stories... seems very repetitive and droning. This is a big novel and Dewitt attempts a lot. However, she drops half of the themes she came in with, and while the peripheral characters thrive by vivid portrayal, the principal characters fall apart and become annoyingly fictional constructs. I'm looking forward to her next novel, though.	2001-06-14
US	43850200	R3CFFLQU6OBWYL	0394585011	372460624	Bellow: A Biography	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Amazing first half... then the rest.	Saul Bellow is an icon. Deconstructing an icon has a price, and Atlas risks it bravely. For the most part, he succeeds. The first half of the book dealing with Bellow's youth and his beginnings is jaw-dropping. The amount of painstaking research that Atlas has done for this biography pays off handsomely. He does a gorgeous job of recreating the environments, the ambition/inspiration/frustration of the young Bellow. Then the latter half recounts Bellow's inability to commit to women, his petulance, triumphs and mild failures, etc... and the book becomes cyclical to the point of repetitiveness. One cannot help but feel that Atlas was sick of his subject and his flaws. More often than not, the irascible, conservative old Bellow is portrayed in a thinly-disguised disdain. And as a reader, you share that disdain whether you like it or not. I did not like it, but the beginning half of the book was so luminous, I didn't regret having read the rest of it.	2001-05-25
US	43850200	RCPND6N7WR4VH	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Japan, with fries.	A fabulous, if a bit uneven collection of stories from one of the modern masters of fiction. The first story, &quot;The Wind-Up Bird...&quot; is the first chapter from his spectacular novel, &quot;The Wind-Up Bird Chronicles.&quot; All the characters in these stories are vaguely  cynical, listless inhabitants of postmodern Tokyo - the city, as well as its people, are cosmopolitan and hyper-westernized, and many of the stories deal with discomforting lack of certainty and stability of the existence in such a world. People disappear, monsters plead for love, and real people act/talk as though they were characters in jaded fables. You might think Murakami's doing a version of magic realism, but he's more sly than that: no matter how fabulous events seem to be, the characters, the exacting details of the events, the dead-on metaphors/themes ground all the stories firmly to reality. The stories are a blast to read as well. When a hungry couple pulls a heist of a McDonald's and steal 20 big-macs, they politely pay for their two drinks and walk out. (&quot;Bakery Attack&quot;) Trust me. You have to read it.	2001-05-25
US	43850200	RUPAL0GFKKF89	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	9	11	N	N	nietzsche and beethoven in kundera	I picked this book up when I was in junior high and I still come back to it. An awesome fusion of philosophy with fiction. The lighness/heaviness dualism is started with Kundera's musings on Nietzsche's idea of eternal return. He asks if Robespierre would seem so tyrannical if the figure did not recur in history over and over again... The whole story is constructed, following the structure of a late Beethoven quartet, the one in c-minor, I believe. (Correct me if I'm wrong.) All the literary themes and occurrences become deft quasi-musical leitmotifs in Kundera's hands, recurring with different shades and/or perspectives. The characters are terribly endearing and well-portrayed. I'd say this book is easily one of the ten best books (written in the twentieth century) I've read.	2001-05-25
US	43850200	R1DBWZ1OA9DBRO	1573225797	931161211	CivilWarLand in Bad Decline	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A new direction	This collection of short stories (along with the more recent &quot;Pastoralia&quot; collection) will define the course of short fiction in America for years to come. The voice, thematic relevance in all these stories hit home without mercy. No one has written fiction like this, in such a way. Only comparable writers that come to mind are Mark Leyner (who's as funny as Saunders but doesn't bring his stories together as him) David Foster Wallace (too self-engrossed) and Dave Eggers. Odd situations and hallucinatory scenes abound. But they all serve to comment on the modern-day human condition, and they serve that purpose devastatingly. All the characters in these stories are the 'losers' of this world. No one has written about them with more sympathy and candor than Saunders. He doesn't reduce these poor people as caricatured vehicles for his humor, but uses their humanity to point his finger at the laughable veneer of vanity/egotism that envelops the modern American society. A chilling, sad, human collection of stories.	2001-05-25
US	43850200	R3S6IEGJHDCYU	0811214303	850711751	Vertigo	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Excitement in low-voltage	If you're not familiar with Sebald's work, you should read his 'Rings of Saturn' or 'The Emigrants' first. This book, although similar in reflective style, is a bit more introspective than the other two. 'Vertigo' is a kind of a travelogue of the author, and I use the term 'travelogue' loosely. His memories of various places intersect with the travels and events of other people in different periods of time, namely Stendhal, Kafka and Cassanova. This novel is really hard to summarize, and I don't think one should. The most rewarding part of reading this intellectually kinky little book is trying to make heads and tails of it in the end. If you want fast-paced storyline, or exotic occurrences, look elsewhere. But this man's slow, hypnotic prose alone was enough to captivate me til the end. I believe Sebald is a pioneer of contemporary fiction. He bends forms, defies categorization. He subverts fictional truths with real truths and vice-versa, and if it takes putting a picture of his real passport in the book for the sake of documentation, he will do that. (Which he does.) I can't wait to read more of his stuff.	2001-05-25
