US	43861613	R3M3ZZ4UOHT8YM	1588467880	803516612	Arcana Evolved: Transcendence	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Expands the horizons without threatening them with bloat	The book is lean, only a hundred pages or so, but it's packed, absolutely packed with information that can change the way your Arcana Evolved game works. <br /> <br />The book contains 6 new evolved classes, one for every ability score, a new core class, new skills, feats and character options for every existing core class (including an evolved prestige class, the ironmain), substitute levels for spellcasters who want to specialize in a particular kind of spell (from acid mages to wielder of positive energy), weapons that adjust themselves to the wielder's desires and can be made more powerful by purchasing feats and . . . well, a lot of stuff, all in one slim package that's well-organized and clearly-labelled. <br /> <br />There are some elements that I'm not too fond of (the aforementioned ironmain prestige class seems a mite overpowered), but I've never seen this much useful gaming information in such an affordable package.	2005-08-10
US	43861613	R385U0VAU0JFYA	0786934301	101242558	Monster Manual III (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement) (No. 3)	Books	4	38	45	N	N	Another solid chunk o' crunch from WOTC	Both of you who read all of my reviews know that I'm constantly harping on WOTC for having copy editors with a weak to middling grasp of the English language. For the price of a hardover RPG book these days, I do honestly expect perfection in the use of language. This book isn't quite perfect, but it's close, much closer than most of the other WOTC books I've looked at recently. <br /> <br />The content's really good, too. I've already used about a dozen monsters from this book, from the summoning ooze to a few species of dinosaur and a tribelet of skullcrusher ogres. In each and every case, the new players and old were kept off-balance by the mix of unique special abilities and misleading metagaming. <br /> <br />Against the skullcrusher ogres, for example, my group chose to use standard anti-ogre tactics and were roundly trounced for their metagaming ways. It was delicious to watch, particularly when it was the newest gamer in the group who came up with the plan to root out the rather smarter and stronger ogres from their mountain cave. <br /> <br />There aren't a lot of templates, prestige classes or other \\"special features\\" mucking up the book, it's mostly just monsters which is just fine by me. It's clear that this enabled the designers to really focus their attentions on the monster stat blocks, including adjustments for Power Attack, Combat Expertise and other feats as needed, and providing descriptions of tactics for monsters with a lot of special abilities and buff spells to choose from. <br /> <br />I'm not giving this book 5 stars simply because it does contain a few errors in language, and a very few errors in the stat blocks. Also, while the sections on using the monsters in Eberron and Forgotten Realms are useful for that portion of the gaming populace that uses those settings, it's my estimation that the whole list of information could've been put together into a three-page PDF for each game world and then posted on the Wizards site for the enlightment of all. Six pages of free stuff isn't that much to ask, particular since none of the text would be at all useful for people trying to get the monster statistics without paying for the book.	2004-11-02
US	43861613	RAKZ9XFFGA49O	1588460606	547942246	Anger of Angels (d20 Generic System)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Brilliant writing, poorly organized	This is one of the better sourcebooks I've come across in the past while.    With the 3.0/3.5 rules, it's so terribly easy to make just about kind of monster, class or race you want to, and many sourcebooks suffer as a result. There's such an abundance of material out there, and it's so easy to make more, and often what ends up in the books is the less daring, less innovative, less useful material.    If I wanted to know how to make every archon or eladrin into a playable race, I know how to do that, thanks to Savage Species. This book doesn't bother telling me how.    If I wanted to know how to use the SRD feats to develop feats appropriate for angels, I know how to do that, thanks to Skip Williams' columns over at wizards.com. This book doesn't bother telling me how.    Instead, this book focuses on the information that's actually useful to me, like what the different kinds of angels are, the names for them, how to make an angel of death or a fallen angel, plus added geography of the celestial and infernal realms. It's all new stuff, for the most part, and it's well-written.    I've heard some complaints that the writing in the book is a little dull and dry. I didn't find that at all, but angelology is a much stuffier and duller subject than most people are prepared for, and that's probably mostly responsible. For me, the writing was a lot more interesting than, say, most of the kabbalic texts on the subject.    There's good, cogent information here, everything you'll need to run a campaign full of angels, or just work up those one or two angelic beings to flesh out a campaign world. The spells and feats are heavily weighed towards the angels, but, hey, look at the title of the book. They're quite useful, too, both for game mechanics (several damage-causing divine spells, and some nice low-level buffs) and flavour (rite of baptism is both useful and adds a nice flavour to heavily divine campaigns).    My one complaint is that the information's scattered throughoutthe book. It's just not well-organized. The table of contents is relatively helpful, but this is a book in dire need of an index.    If you want to add a real taste of Heaven to your campaign, then this is simply a must-buy book. Combine this book with the Book of Exalted Deeds and you have a killer combo of goodness and light . . . which means that you can make the demons that much stronger.	2004-09-29
US	43861613	RJDGMYZ8ARJGZ	1588469921	999156032	Tome of Horrors II (Necromancer)	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	Well-done beastiary with just a few flaws	Published by Necromancer Games, which promises 3rd edition playability with a 1st edition feel, this book delivers on almost all fronts. Even the art has a cast of the old Fiend Folio to it, though just updated enough to not seem out-of-place or old-fashioned next to it's contemporaries.<br />The monsters all fit cozily into various niches of various kinds of campaigns. Really, there were very few monsters where I thought, &quot;Where the heck would you even meet up with something like that?&quot;, and in most cases where the ecology wasn't clear, the critter was undead or an elemental, both monster types that don't necessarily mesh realistically into a campaign world.<br />The write-ups were clear and concise and, for the most part, accurate. It wasn't perfect, though, and so it doesn't get five stars. It'd get four-and-a-half if I could swing it, but . . .<br />DMs, buy this book. Surprise your players with brand-new monsters that feel like you've met them before. Highly recommended.	2004-05-06
US	43861613	R2A5O1FB3DS1PK	1932442065	371051788	Character Record Folio: A Character Sheet for D20 Campaign Play (3.5 Updated)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Throrough, but not complete	This is the best character record-keeper I've found so far, apart from the personalized, made-at-home variety. Of course, if you have the time to type up your very own complete and thorough character sheet, you wouldn't be looking to buy one on-line, right?<br />Of the kind that require money to change hands, this is the best. You can keep track of your characters progress by levels, very handy for those times when you drop a level, there's a section for equipment, spells, feats, abilities, skill, all nicely laid out so that you can not only write in the bare facts but have rooms for things like spell descriptions, location of items and the like. The sections for cohorts, familiars, mounts, followers, contacts and places you've visited are also handy, enabling you to flesh out your character's world all within the tidy pages of one little volume.<br />My qualms with this item are few, but here they are. First of all, there's no section for turning undead. It seems a minor exclusions, but it would've been a fairly slim box to include and would have been indispensable for the divine spellcaster. Likewise, arcane spellcasters can write out just about everything for their character except the saving throw type for their spells. It's nice to be able to have the spell name, level, description and saving throw DC all in one neat row, but unless you've memorized if a Will save negates, or a Fortitude save halves, you're still going to have to look up to spell, so no time is gained.<br />Still, I've used four of these so far and definitely plan on using more. A wise and useful investment.	2004-03-31
US	43861613	R3FT2HG9CN8R0N	1903980097	646001034	The Quintessential Fighter (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Recommended with reservation	Let me start off by saying that if you're looking to add some variety and spice into the fighters in your campaign, this is the perfect book for you. Just about every page will give you new ideas for your game.<br />The feats, prestige classes and fighting styles are particularly useful. The feats round out a lot of fighter abilities, giving greater benefit to a high Dexterity than the Combat Expertise feat tree, without being too over-balanced.<br />The prestige classes are a bit of a mixed bag. Some, like the Legend prestige class, are highly useful while others, like the Berserker, seem like pale imitations of other, better defined classes. Still, even the Berserker description contains some abilities that might be interesting to work into a campaign with barbarians.<br />The fighting styles are a relatively new concept. Basically, you spend some XP and spend some time training, after meeting some prerequisites, and you learn special abilities based on a fighting style. From trick archery to archery from horseback, to fighting with two light weapons, to fighting with the double-bladed orc axe, there's something for just about everyone. Some would argue that the fighting styles are too powerful, but since by the time you've mastered the fifth and final level of a style you've spent 7500 XP, three months game time, quite a bit of gold and focussed your feats, skills and abilities in one direction, I think the cost  weighs pretty evenly with the benefits.<br />The equipment section is pretty handy, particularly the section on black powder weapons that gets into a lot more detail than any other book I've seen. The damages on these weapons seem pretty high compared to their ranged-weapon counterparts, but the dangers of a misfired shell, coupled with the long loading time, balances this out. I particularly liked the addition of the magical weapon abilities for black powder weapons.<br />The OMCS, the mass combat system, seems pretty useful, although it does seem skewed towards creatures with many Hit Dice rather than those with actual combat ability. The system also doesn't take into account the difference in speed between units and how that could change the nature of combat. Still, it's a good basic framework to hang things off of.<br />The major problem is that the system gives too much benefit to PCs. A single character proficient with two weapons can, at 6th level, inflict nearly as much damage on a unit as an entire platoon of infantry of the same size as their target unit. That just doesn't seem quite right. Also, no credit is given for the effect that attacking from horseback would have on damage, defense and chance of striking one's opponent. All you get are extra hit points.<br />The book loses one star for the illustrations and story excerpts contained in the book. There are far too many cleavage-baring \\"chicks in chainmail\\" done in a simple line-drawing style. The stories, when they aren't directly offensive and misogynist, are just useless and rather drab, not doing anything but taking up space on the page.<br />The book loses another star for a lack of balance. Using this book, by 8th level I could create a fighter who, 30% of the time he strikes, inflicts quadruple normal damage with his attack, if he confirms his critical. That's just not a good thing, considering that his weapon, the flamberge, rolls 2d6 for damage.	2003-12-29
US	43861613	R33J8JW1RU75Z4	1563899388	438176083	Death: At Death's Door (Death #1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Entertaining, but nowhere near perfect	I got this book as a Christmas present, which is just as well as it was on my list of books to buy once I win the lottery.<br />This is a good book. The art is pleasant to look at, and I like the idea of seeing the events in Sandman: Season of Mists from the point of view of another of the Endless, but there are some major flaws.<br />First of all, the artistic style isn't consistent. Some panels will be detailed and realistic, with characters drawn in perfect proportion, while others will be distinctly child-like and cutesy. I know that in manga it's traditional to change the style of a panel to suit the emotional mood of the panel, but that doesn't seem to be the case here. Sometimes, Death and Delerium will be engaging in silly banter in one style, and then the style switches with the next panel of silly banter, with no apparent break in the mood.<br />The other quibble, this one a bit more serious, is that not much happens in this book. It's a 192-page book that could have been done with half the pages and only added excitement and interest to the plot. It could best be summed up as \\"while we see scenes of Season of Mists again, Death, Despair and Delerium phumpher about Death's apartment with a whole bunch of lost souls.\\" You could certainly tell 192 pages of good story from that, but the phumphering takes up too much space and we end up with great art and a tiny, tiny plot.<br />I've heard that Jill Thompson is planning on doing another volume, this one retelling another chapter of Sandman from the perspective of another of the Endless. Based on this volume, I look forward to the sequel, but I think I'll wait until I've flipped through it before putting it on my Christmas list.	2003-12-29
US	43861613	R2IQD0XG17W6I8	0743444043	812381526	Double Dealer (CSI: CRIME SCENE INVESTIGATION)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A well-told story that peters out near the end	The tale of the CSI's hunt for the Deuce is rather gripping. There were several times when I wished that this was an actual TV episode because without all the exposition necessary in fiction, the tension of a scene would be broken earlier. That the author, Max Allan Collins, didn't sacrifice exposition for the sake of audience gratification is a testament to the man's skills as a writer.<br />He does a good job of sketching the CSIs. No one's given the personality detail that they've developed to now on the show, but this book was likely started shortly into the first season of the show, when the characters themselves were somewhat sketchy. Still, he manages to capture Nick Stokes Boy Scout charm and sense of humour, Sarah Sidle's wry humour and lack of personal skills, and many of the quirks of the rest.<br />The examination of the evidence, the slow, methodical process of investigation, is the crux of the book, of course, and Collins presents these scenes in a very realistic and, at least to my understanding, accurate fashion. They use many of the same techniques we've seen on the show, but they employ some new tricks. Due to the evidence-light nature of the case, there's also a lot more footwork than is typical on the show. There, of course, they're limited in the number of shots and locations they can employ, but Collins knows he's not that limited and presents a variety of settings.<br />So, if this is such a great book, why only four stars? The ending is very weak.<br />I think he wrote it in an effort to give the case that one final twist, to separate it from all others, but this plot twist is clumsily handled and comes across as rather forced.<br />Still a good book, though.	2003-11-21
US	43861613	R1XSZS15ZIEBES	1592630014	455189561	Faeries (d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying, BAS1010)	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	This book gave me a crisis of conscience	I originally bought this book as a gift for a friend. It almost didn't make it to her. Only a few pages into the book, I realized that I needed to have a copy of it for my very own. My dedication to my friend won out in the end and I'll be ordering my own copy shortly, but I'm counting the days until it arrives.<br />This is the first D20 supplement I've seen that is consistently useful in every area. Spells, prestige classes, races, feats, magic items, monsters, templates, the description of Faeryland itself, it's all good, meaty useful stuff. If it talks about a major player in the world of the fey, that player is given a stat sheet. If it talks about a magic item, that magic item's described.<br />The art is excellent, the editing is tight and the format of the book flows very well.<br />This book misses five stars for a few nitpicky reasons. First of all, it coul dbe a little thicker. Don't get me wrong, this is  pretty much a must-buy book if you're going to have the fey take any kind of active role in a campaign, but a few more monsters, and a few more magic items would've added even more depth to this book.<br />Also, the book has some rather startling errors, most particularly the exlusion of the Mite Fighter feat which is a prerequisite for several feats and prestige classes. Some of the other, more minor error were fixed with errata on the publisher's site, but Mite Fighter exists in a different book entirely. Spells & Magic, from Bastion Press, in case you're interested.<br />Some of the templates don't seem to be properly balanced as far as how they adjust character level, particularly the high fey and shadow-born templates.<br />Again, these are minor quibbles and easily corrected. I highly recommend this book.	2003-11-13
US	43861613	R1XPGUEBEPGH9	193238202X	931599640	CSI: Crime Scene Investigation: Serial	Books	2	4	15	N	N	Mediocre plot, mediocre art, mediocre characters	In his novels, Max Alan Collins manages to capture the feel of CSI quite well. He only defines the investigators with a few brush-strokes, just as the show does, spending the majority of his time focussing on the crimes themselves. The crimes he portrays are interesting and, when they aren't unique, keep your attention quite well.<br />In this graphic novel, the crimes are . . . well, dull. A woman is strangled and her murderer is quickly and easily uncovered. There's no tension or interest there at all. I realize that many crimes are resolved quickly through forensics, but I'm not really interested in reading about them in graphic novel form.<br />The other crimes echo the career of Jack the Ripper. Here, the foreknowledge of the characters about where the new Jack is going to strike, and who he's going to strike against, prevents us from really being in suspense over what's going to happen next.<br />Perhaps because he's working in a purely visual medium, Collins gives us virtually no insight into the internal motives of any of the characters. As I'll note later, the characters are remarkably expressionless, so without internal monologue, external exposition or physical expression, the characters seem to be just meandering through a series of brutal murders with only a little character interaction to let us know what's going on in their heads.<br />The graphic novel is hampered even further by decidedly amateurish art. The characters seem too short-limbed and stiff to be realistic, and in trying to copy their appearance on the show, the artist has drained them all of any meaningful expression. It sort of reminded me of watching a puppet show, with emotionless faces going about their tasks.<br />That said, the plots are fairly solid, with only one major creditibility gap. At one point, Grissom makes a rather astute but legally meaningless connection between a suspect and somehow gets a search warrant out of it. Other than that, the plots seem fairly tight.	2003-11-10
US	43861613	R3QOO428ZS6PZT	0786931361	208048527	Book of Exalted Deeds (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	5	69	70	N	N	The  good guys get a leg up in glorious style	The purpose of D & D, at the start, was to crawl through dungeons while killing monsters and finding nifty pieces of equipment. The game's come a long way since then, with hundreds of core book and supplements adding layer after layer of moral complexity to the fantasy world.<br />Demons and devils were defined. Evil was given its own spells, magic items and races. The good guys, for there part, had morally limited and easily stereotyped paladins and the occasionally pure-hearted cleric. That was it. There was no real reason for a fighter, rogue or wizard to be any more good than their alignment description read.<br />The Book of Exalted Deeds changes all that. Good has been given power, real power, and is now just as capable as evil of showering benefits on its devotees - though at no less cost to those devotees.<br />This book opens with a discussion of the motives of good. What acts are good, which are not, and the exceptions to the rules. It's never a problem for me, but this section would be quite handy for those DMs and players who have trouble figuring just what a character's alignment means and practice.<br />Also included is the idea of being \\"exalted.\\" This isn't being on a moral high-horse or anything of the sort, it's simply the idea that just as some villains can be despicable beyond human comprehension, so can heroes be righteous.<br />Next we get to the meat and drink of the book: the new stuff. The magic items are adequate, not much more. There's only so many new adjectives you can add onto the beginning of item names, and only so many powers you can give, but at the very least this book includes special enhancements that directly counter enhancements from the dreaded Book of Vile Darkness.  <br />The same goes for feats and spells, really, although some completely new concepts are also entertained.<br />The book really comes into its own with the prestige classes, monsters and descriptions of greater creatures of good. In these sections, you're given some specific statistics, but you're also given a really good guideline for just how you can create your own special and sacred servants of the eladrin, the angels and the guardinals. Various otherworldly and mortal servants of the three great bastions of good are described, including a lot of the eladrin that were missing from previous supplements. The tulani and the firre were particularly appreciated.<br />The greater creatures of good, the angels, the high eladrin, the greatest of the guardinals, are described in detail, with thorough descriptions. Given their tremendous power, I'm a little surprised that they weren't generated via Deities and Demigods, but that's a minor quibble.<br />What I liked best about this book is that, as opposed to the majority of WotC's other products, this book appears to be cleanly edited, neatly presented and well-organized. I'm not an organization freak in my waking life, but when it comes to reference supplements, I really appreciate having everything laid out in plain, simple order, particularly when it's information that's useful.	2003-11-07
US	43861613	R2VLVVINSSIZBV	0195160339	161828347	Slayer Slang: A Buffy the Vampire Slayer Lexicon	Books	4	27	29	N	N	A remarkable glossary, but the essays go on a bit.	I can sum up the first 125 pages of this book as follows: Slayer slang is very creative, occasionally rebellious, and slang should be appreciated for what it is.<br />Michael Adams makes these three points repeatedly and often, giving case after case after case for each one. It's not a bad thing to make a point strongly, but making it repetitively gets a little tiresome.<br />Still, the prose flows well, and his arguments are clear and well-put, so it's not as though it's simply a hundred pages of retreaded material. Adams' points may well be new ones to the ears of some, and in that case the essays are definitely worth the read.<br />Of course, that leaves us with almost 200 pages of glossary, the part of the book that provides us with the most useful and most interesting information. The entries are formatted clearly, providing plenty of quotation to put the words in context, and the selection is broad, covering not only the episodes, but also the original movie, the Bronze message boards, newspaper and magazine articles and books and graphic novels.<br />I wouldn't count this as a &quot;must-have&quot; for hardcore fans of the show, as they either know the words already or don't need a hardcover glossary to catch up. This book is most useful for people with a casual interest in linguistics and the show, as well as those who are just interested in slang and its place in modern society.	2003-09-18
US	43861613	RNHHHDI5ZJWZM	0786927801	422512566	Fiend Folio (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Outsiders, undead and constructs, oh my	I held off on buying the Fiend Folio for a while. There was no real reason, other than the fact that the first time I had the chance to look at the book, I'd just been to the optometrist and my eyes were all woogly. I didn't take the chance to look at it again until later. I'm glad I took that second chance.<br />The clear emphasis in this book is on outsiders, undead and constructs. The back of the book says that the major focus is on \\"fiends,\\" which is a trifle misleading as there aren't that many new true fiends, meaning baatezu or ta'anari. The ones included basically flesh out what was once available in the second edition Planescape compendiums and other sources, so it was very much appreciated.<br />The remainder of the book has some lovely creatures as well, including a number of neutrally aligned inevitable and rilmani, giving the party more than just demons and angels to cope with.<br />CRs are quite high in this book, but again the cover warns you of this, and a simple glance through will show this. Few of the monsters are in the truly unkillable category, though, and many of the high CR guys would make suitable behind-the-scenes villains, bad guys for a low-level party to take on after taking out the beasties minions. This book also doesn't suffer from the Monster Manual II's overemphasis on the Improved Grab feat, which makes for some powerful monsters that won't just grab the PCs and never let go.<br />The grafts section is interesting, providing a way for willful PCs to increase their raw power, for a price. I really liked the fiendish prestige classes, which enable you to create a barbaze or even a lemure with just that extra edge of power and ability to drive the PCs nuts.<br />Once again, though, WotC has decided to shuffle the templates in with the monsters, which is needless and a little confusing. There are also some minor typos and some slight disagreements between the main body of monsters and the stat block, or between the description and thepicture. All these issues are easily resolveable, but for [$$], I expect them to be resolved BEFORE I buy.	2003-09-04
US	43861613	R27ZVRR39NUMWT	0753507048	106376371	Uncharted Territory: An Unofficial and Unauthorised Guide to Farscape	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Incomplete, but thoroughly enjoyable	Forget the high-priced trade paperbacks, this slim little volume has all the dren you need on your favourite sci-fi show.<br />Yes, it doesn't have illustrations. If I wanted to look at pretty pictures, I'd watch the show.<br />Yes, it doesn't have much of the behind-the-scenes scuttlebutt. If I wanted that, I'd listen to the commentary tracks on the heinously over-priced DVDs.<br />Yes, it's written in a breezy, informative style, giving you a handy synopsis of incidents under categories like Nosferatu in Black Rubber and Get Frelled.<br />The book even manages to discuss the technical flaws within each episode, but does so without taking away from the enjoyment of the review.<br />The book's only flaw: this is the last edition, and it doesn't cover every episode. The book covers to the end of the third season, and there's lots more to happen to the crew of Moya, but it's still a very useful little book.	2003-08-20
US	43861613	R1WSWZGO7NTW8D	1588461025	817865810	Book of Eldritch Might 2: Songs and Souls of Power	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An excellent add-on to any campaign	I bought this book in the hopes that it would give me a few more items, spells and feats for my players to enjoy, and instead found a book capable of adding great flavour and verve to any campaign.<br />The rewrite of the bard is the highlight of this book for me. From a new and unique method of spellcasting, to a new set of skills and special abilities, the bard in this book goes from being a sort of utility spellcaster to being a completely new and unique class, a thing apart. The idea of casting spells as songs is not a new one, but the way that it's done here is nothing short of brilliant, encouraging bards to use their spells while not sacrificing any of the other abilities of the class.<br />The feats focus mainly on bardic activity, as do the prestige classes, making the addition of the soul magic section seem, at first, like a last-minute add-on. It's not. Soul magic is, as another reviewer's said, the use of intelligent spells, and saying more than that would be spoiling things. They really will add depth to my games in the future.<br />As if that weren't enough good stuff (for less than half the price of a standard hard-bound WoTC title), there are also a smattering of new and useful spells, perfect for making surprise scrolls and adding detail to a campaign.<br />I recommend this book to anyone looking to spice up the bard class, and anyone interested in some new and unusual spells and abilities.	2003-08-06
US	43861613	R17P5P3FANNTVN	0972675604	205204343	Bastards & Bloodlines: A Guidebook to Halfbreeds (Races of Renown)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Another solid effort from Green Ronin Publishing	Having enjoyed their Master Class books, I decided to give one of the Races of Renown books a try.<br />Now, my understanding is that Green Ronin is prohibited from using any race-related material already published by Wizards of the Coast, so I avoided the books on orcs, whom I already know quite well, and drow, who I scarcely ever use, and went for what promised to be the most original book, this one.<br />This book really is original, providing some unique half-breed races, along with balanced rules for creating you own halfbreeds, either as races or templates. A few of the half-breeds use rules that make them a little to easy to abuse, particularly the Wyrd, an ogre mage/elf cross, but for the most part they're fair and balanced and, most importantly, playable.<br />There's only one real flaw with this book, and that's a definite trend towards a lot of nature-focused half-breeds, combining various fey creatures with various woods-friendly humanoids. The results are always interesting (I have a player who now wants to play a woodwose), but perhaps a trifle repetitive. Since I generally run a very nature-focused game, I don't have a problem with it and the book doesn't lose any stars.<br />The feats and items sections are interesting as well, providing rules for making new race-specific items along with a few new examples, and feats that take advantage of the mixed heritage of the book's races.<br />The prestige classes are adequate but, in my opinion, underpowered. Since they only take up a scant eight or nine pages, again, the book loses no marks with me for this. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to go look at the Green Ronin web-site and see if any other books catch my eye.	2003-08-05
US	43861613	R7YNHB528FCZ5	0671743058	14778474	Boy's Life	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Delightful, spooky, rambling romp through a lost childhood	McCammon's best known for his true horror books, like &quot;They Thirst&quot; and &quot;The Night Boat&quot; and for his thrillers, like &quot;Speaks the Nightbird,&quot; &quot;Mine&quot; and, in a broad sense, &quot;Swan Song.&quot;<br />So, when I heard his next book was going to be about his childhood, I was expectant, but reserved. I wasn't sure he could conjure up the necessary awe and wonder of childhood. I was pleasantly surprised to find that the book not only met my expectations for a coming of age story, but exceeded them.<br />McCammon's protagonist is a believable child, a precocious kid with a fierce imagination and a selective memory. The stories he recalls are generally fantastical, full of far more detail than ought to be readily available so many years later. Despite this lack of believability, the stories entertain and enchant, as is their purpose. Tales of a magical bike, a creature from a lost world and a dozen others are priceless, and just the way I recall my own childhood.<br />This book misses five stars only for the failings of its central narrative, the boy's father's search for the person responsibility for the death witnessed at the beginning of the book. So many clues are dropped with such force that the culprit is easy to spot, and believability is strained to the breaking point in the &quot;startling&quot; final action sequence.<br />Still, the book has so many strong points, so many beautiful stories, that it easily ranks four stars. A must-read, just don't pay too much attention to the &quot;main&quot; plot.	2003-08-04
US	43861613	R276BB1QKB817C	078692893X	17320638	Monster Manual: Core Rulebook III  v. 3.5 (Dungeons & Dragons d20 System)	Books	4	51	56	N	N	An improvement, but with room for more improvement	I'm not going to talk about the controversy over the release of these books and will only be reviewing the information as it's written, and commenting on improvements or setbacks since the last edition.<br />The previous Monster Manual was a good guide to the basic monsters necessary for a DM to attempt to kill his PCs. The problem is, at that time the rules for 3rd edition were still fairly skeletal, and as time passed and rules were published enabling players and DMs alike to use monsters as PCs, these rules were not in the Monster Manual. Also, some terms were redefined, and even the manner in which the stats of a monster are to be determined changed. Adding to the confusion, the book was designed a little haphazardly, making it difficult to tell just where you're supposed to look for the information you need.<br />All these rules changes and additions have been incorporated into the new Monster Manual, and this book is now a complete, up-to-date, bound volume of WoTC's holy writ. The problem is, a lot of the organizational problems still exist or were expanded on.<br />The book boasts a few nice new illustrations, and they're more closely linked to the appropriate monster entry, but there are still some times where there'll be only a portion of a paragraph about a monster on the page that carries that monster's illustration.<br />Also, the templates have been shuffled in with all the monsters. I have no idea why they did this. There are monsters, and then there are templates to add to monsters. It makes perfect sense to separate the two. I must admit, though, making zombies and skeletons into templates, rather than monsters of dubious usefulness, was a great idea.<br />Some additions were simply wonderful, though. The \\"How to Create a Monster\\" section is welcome, laying out bare a lot of rules that were previously only available by cross-referencing several books. The short, italicized descriptions of every monster are a great template to drop into a dungeon encounter, or at least a starting point for a DM to get an image from.<br />On the whole, the Monster Manual is a useful tome, and a definite improvement on its predecessor. It still has a few flaws, however, which will no doubt be fixed in upcoming errata.	2003-07-29
US	43861613	R23L6P3CUYOI2R	0786928867	872179203	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook I v.3.5	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Good rule revisions and better organization	I'm going to leave aside the controversy over whether these books should have been published or not; they have been published, and they contain new material, and that's what I'll review, nothing more, nothing less.<br />The third edition Player's Handbook was a step in a new direction for Dungeon and Dragons, a more flexible system that allowed for more diverse character development than anything but the most meticulously detailed homebrew rules while still encouraging everything from dungeon-running to diplomacy-based adventures.<br />The only problem was, the information that enabled this shift wasn't very well organized and showed signs of not having been completely playtested. Spell descriptions in particular seemed a little less clear than they ought to have been, leading to long discussion over the simple application of magic.<br />Feats and skills, too, showed some need for improvement. (an entire skill just to figure out which way is North?)<br />Some classes, most notably the ranger and the bard, had much of their &quot;coolness factor&quot; removed, appearing to be little more than an under-powered fighter with a pet badger, in the case of rangers, and rogues with fewer skills and a handful of spells, in the case of bard.<br />Edition 3.5 has found solutions to almost all of these issues. The information in this edition flows a lot better, and it's now quite a bit easier to find the information you're looking for. Spell descriptions have been tightened up and many skills have been eliminatd, redifined or expanded to suit the needs of players better, and to improve gameplay. For the most part, feats have merely changed names, although some descriptions and benefits have changed, for the better, mostly, and Ambidexterity was eliminated.<br />This new revision misses five stars for a few minor exclusions (a glossary of charts would've been only a few pages long, and would've increased information accessibility greatly) and for making some changes that just didn't seem necessary, like the complication of the weapons chart. I look forward to the first errata.	2003-07-29
US	43861613	R37N3RXC1A925B	0972359907	623991360	The Witch's Handbook (d20 System) (Master Classes)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Much better than I anticipated	I ordered this book, sight unseen, expecting a mostly shoddy book with a lot of WC (Wicca Correct, similar to PC, but with more nightshade and black lace) crud and a few gems I might be able to slide in here or there.<br />Imagine my pleasure and suprise at discovering that this is actually a very useful, well-planned book that delivers a lot of good information in a balanced fashion. Witches can be evil, witches can be good, witches can be, well, pretty much whatever you want them to be. And they aren't just suped-up hedge mages or adepts, they're a full-blown class, with a pleasant combination of special abilities from other classes (most especially druids) and a few new abilities.<br />The prestige classes are great, allowing the witch to really customize her character, as well as providing a great prestige class, the witch's champion, that can give her some extra protection, in the form of a bodyguard, without getting ridiculous or borrowing too much from the Devoted Defender (Sword and Fist.)<br />The items section is interesting, providing a range of natural ingredients for spells and potions that can add flavour to a campaign. Even if you don't actually have to buy the stuff, it's much &quot;neater&quot; to have stuff like wolfsbane and celery root in your inventory rather than the generic &quot;spell components.&quot;<br />The ritual magic section is superb, outlining rules that just about any class can use to &quot;cast a hex&quot; or just reach out and crush someone. This section is, however, the reason the book doesn't get five stars. After several chapters of giving flavour and colour to the rules, ritual magic is presented as a bare bones set of guidelines and standardizations, with precious little colour or detail provided.<br />Still, well worth purchasing, along with Green Ronin's Shaman's Handbook, if you want to generate a rural, magic-casting environment.	2003-07-25
US	43861613	R1I73KXO7QZ74I	0671695185	318179539	Blue World	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Short horror fiction that rivals, if not trumps, King	In this sweet set of 13 short stories, McCammon proves once again that he unrivalled in skill at:<br />1. establishing setting<BR>2. creating and defining complex characters in a hurry<BR>3. creating plots that are, if not unique, then at least original.<br />&quot;Yellowjacket Summer,&quot; &quot;Blue World&quot; and &quot;Yellachile's Cage&quot; are fine examples of a short story writer at the height of his skill. Others, like &quot;Something Passed By,&quot; &quot;I Scream Man&quot; and &quot;Pin&quot; have their weaknesses, but tackle complex plots and emotions without creating stories that feel stretched out and thin.	2003-06-27
US	43861613	R2SNREVJ2S7J6P	0786928751	983890513	Races of Faerun (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms Setting)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great formatting + Great information = Excellent book	This books contains volumes of information about a number of previously described races, a more thorough description of races briefly mentioned and outlines rather completely some races I wasn't expecting. It also has some new magic items, lots of new feats and a whole lot other stuff to add flavour to just about any campain, not just the ones in Faerun.<br />Of course, the Player's Handbook contained a lot of information as well, but in its initial incarnation, it was hampered by formatting that made it hard to find the information you needed. This pattern would repeat through several books; the format would be easy to read, with information that was less than useful or the format would be confusing, with excellent information. Here, we have a perfect synthesis.<br />My only quibble is that some of the feats and items seem a little powerful, but a creative DM can work around any of that.	2003-05-19
US	43861613	R7R6KIEUO1SLD	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A book rewritten with sequels in mind	On its own, this is a good book. The plot moves along nicely, the descriptions are good, there's a pleasant mythos of magic and history in the background. It all works together rather well.<br />The story is simple enough. A young man is destined to go do battle with a really evil guy and has to travel through dark and dangerous lands to do so. I've heard the claims that this make the book a rip-off of Tolkein, but since Tolkein took all his themes from earlier stories, this isn't that big of a deal. Although the Dhoom Mountain/Mount Doom and Mountains of Mist/Misty Mountains thing is a little too much like plagiarism.<br />We have battles, magic, sorcery, strong-willed women, all the things that make this sort of fantasy novel work and then, without warning, there's a sad effort at a climax and the book is over. No pay-off on the prophecies, which do everything but state that Rand is the Dragon Reborn. No fight with a really cool bad guy, just some random mage.<br />This could have been it, folks. Just a few hundred pages, and you have a nice, tidy story. But, no, it has spawn book after book after book and created a huge, sprawling, messy world that derivative of so many authors other than Tolkein.<br />One star lost for lack of originality. Jordan offers some nifty spins on old classics, but that's about it, and some of the namings smack of a fith-grader's creative writing project.<br />One star lost because Jordan didn't have the guts to write one good book, but started an epic series of mediocre fantasy.	2003-03-25
US	43861613	RO129JA4LQIIF	0671039725	769595666	Carrie	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Misses 5 stars for style, not for substance.	I would really like to see King rewrite this book. Just to go back over and smooth down some of those rough spots, turn this book from a good horror novel with a few weaknesses into a first-rate horror/thriller.<br />Much of this book is good. The characters are believable, if a little static. The setting manages to help the story along without become too much a part of the action. King's explanation for Carrie's abilities, along with the behaviour of her mother, foreshadows the end long before it comes, but that's all right. Horror isn't about the shock, really, it's about the moments that lead up to it.<br />The only problem is, in a lot of places where you'd expect the story to speed up, it slows down. This'd be all right if it slowed up for a purpose, but it's usually just for a bit of someone's jounral of a scrap of a newspaper article. Later on, King would learn more about how to mix together mundane sub-plots with the horrific plot to make the horror build all the better, but here it feels more forced, more artifical somehow.<br />Still, for being the first book that every made me jump with surprise in a public place, four stars.	2003-03-14
US	43861613	R2HMII3DU4L3Q6	0744001986	280897224	Kingdom Hearts Official Strategy Guide (Signature Series)	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Strategy guide writers, use this as your guide	This is just about the best strategy guide I've ever seen. It has:<br />1. Clear, well-organized lists of all the items, weapons and spells in the game, accompanied by short descriptions that provide useful information.<BR>2. Excellent character profiles that enable you to customize your party to the fullest.<BR>3. A pitch-perfect beastiary with, from what I've seen, accurate statistics for every beast in the game, including bosses.<BR>4. A clearly written walkthrough. While some of the hints and descriptions are a little lacking in detail, this is a very large game, and providing step-by-step illustrations could have proved even more confusing or just ruined the fun of playing the game through.<BR>5. Ideal boss fight strategies, providing more information about the boss than about how you should deal with it, allowing the player to adjust their style of play to each new bad guy while not wasting time.<BR>6. The simply cool addition of a map and stickers to keep track of your progress with puppies and Trinity Marks. At first I though this was cheesy, but it's a great way to track your progress.<br />The last bit is the most important though: this is a guide through the game, not a step-by-step, this is how you beat the game, kids, completely outlined with no room for interpretation rulebook, giving you the freedom to enjoy the game at your own pace and in your own style.	2003-03-12
US	43861613	R1C9WKAGS8DTKG	0786918500	74184571	Manual of the Planes (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	&quot;It isn't Planescape&quot; - what gave it away, the title?	I've heard numerous people complain that this book doesn't spend enough time talking about Sigil, the Lady of Pain, the factions and the other details of the old Planescape setting, and that this book likes the dialect and art of the old Planescape series.<br />Well, that's probably because this isn't a Planescape product.<br />This isn't the third edition version of a second edition idea, this is what it claims to be, a manual of the planes. In that, it succeeds, giving you an idea of the ecology of the various planes, including flora and fauna, a few NPC descriptions.<br />Many of the details of individual areas in the planes, including Sigil, can be left to other sourcebooks. This provides a nice overview.<br />That being said, while the ideas and intentions were good, I seriously think WotC needs to hire a new editing staff. There were dozens of misspellings, grammar errors, references to non-existent charts, poorly worded sentences and generally writing mistakes throughout the book that interrupted the flow and, in a few cases, prevented me from understanding what the author was trying to say. Just one more draft, and this book could have been a good one.<br />Also, while appreciate the monumental task before the authors, some planes received so little attention that they should either have been excluded entirely to provide room for other, more popular planes, or had their descriptions increased to give greater depth. C'mon, I'm shelling out some fairly serious cash for this book, add in a few pages and make it worth my while.<br />Nice monsters, too.	2003-03-12
US	43861613	R3O5AJV77MK2UA	0786926554	204316990	Stronghold Builder's Guidebook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent rules, good instructions, clear maps	It's now possible for even the severely map-challenged, namely yours truly, to design dungeons that are something more than an endless string of boxes connected by doors.<br />I realize that many resources existed before, but until now I hadn't found all those resources in bascially the same place, outlined so simply.<br />Whil agree with some critics of this book who claim that it makes building an impenetrable castle a little too affordable, I've always believed that it's the DM who's responsible for keeping the game from tipping too far in the player's favour, not the sourcebook.<br />What I really appreciated were the simple rules for figuring out how much staff a given structure would need, and how much you ought to pay them.	2003-03-11
US	43861613	R20SJO6BPA5IY1	0451170113	722345215	Night Shift (Signet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful short stories	This book would have been worth it if the only good story was &quot;The Last Rung On The Ladder.&quot; As it is you get that wonderful story, with no touch of the supernatural and bunch of other good reads.<br />&quot;Graveyard Shift&quot; and &quot;Children of the Corn&quot; fare far better as short story than as movie. &quot;Gray Matter&quot; resonates with that creepy, organically horrific vibe that King has at his best. &quot;Quitters, Inc.&quot; and &quot;I Know What You Need&quot; both provide a nice dose of psychological horror, and then there's &quot;I Am The Doorway,&quot; a Lovecraftian, invasion-from-space story that, while unsurprising, is very well-crafted.<br />This is probably my favourite Stephen King book. With 20 stories, at one story before bed every week night, this is a solid month of good writing.	2003-03-04
US	43861613	R6XMJGVYZDRUQ	0786926481	843013916	Savage Species: Playing Monstrous Characters (Dungeons & Dragons Supplement)	Books	3	29	30	N	N	A great book, with inconsistent editing and rules writing	The material in this book is excellent for a DM. You can pick and choose your favourite rules and variations to make your own monstrous classes, or just flip to the appendix at the back and take information straight from the book. The magic items vary from the silly to the useful, the spells are well-written and the feats seem suitably tailored to monstrous playing.<br />The templates are what really make this book sing, along with a long appendix full of examples of monstrous classes that should empower any DM to turn a monster into a playable character.<br />This is, however, a book in serious need of one more working draft. The writers and editors took on a mighty task with this book, so I'm willing to forgive a lot, but references to incorrect pages, tables that don't exist and simple proofreading errors hamper the Savage Species experience. Also, there are numerous glaring examples of critters that bust wide open the abilities that a PC should be permitted at 1st level. This happens mostly with the advanced monsters, but many of them start with no attribute penalties, no serious drawbacks and numerous magical abilities. A little more scaling was needed for these, I think.<br />Still, now I can have that troll/barbarian I always dreamed of . . . and with more complete information that the \\"Complete\\" Book of Humanoids.<br />(edited in)<br />I've now read through the book cover to cover and, as a result, must downgrade my rating from 4 to 3 stars. The editing is more than just inconsistent, in parts its deeply confusing. Numerous feat and spell entries are extremely contradictory. For example, the spell \\"Earth Reaver\\" calls for no saving throw, but the last line of the spell description says that those who fail the saving throw will be made prone. I can guess what kind of saving throw is necessary, but, honestly, this is the sort of thing that should've been easy to spot in the editing process.<br />The excellence of the appendices, the prestige classes and the suggested rules are the saving graces of this book.	2003-03-03
US	43861613	R1ZIBHXUQGE392	0786916427	720656250	Character Sheets (Dungeons & Dragons Accessory)	Books	1	8	13	N	N	This is what I get for buying it all at once	After saving up for a month or so, I purchased the Player's Handbook, DM Guide, Monster Manual, and these character sheets. Three out of the four were worth the cost.<br />These character sheets are a simple repetition of information readily available elsewhere, they aren't sturdily made, and they don't have nearly enough room for your stats.<br />If you really want to keep good record of a character, try Green Ronin's Character Record Folio. It's well worth the price.	2003-02-21
US	43861613	RLZR02ND4TNJ7	0786915501	633963573	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook 1	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A different RPG	When I bought this book, it was with the understanding that this was a new RPG.<br />It might bear the might D &amp; D stamp, it might still have some of the vestiges of its former self, but this was a new RPG.<br />From radical changes in rules to a new way of publishing supplements, this books was going to be the start of it all. And what a start it was.<br />Now, I've only consciously compared the new to the old when changing over some of my characters, so maybe that's why I was awe-struck with just how neat and simple the rules are. Character creation has been simplified, in many ways, but now there are dozens of ways to make your character unique. There's no more reason why we have to be satisfied with something generic.<br />Combat is simplified, while, again, allowing for greater complexity. I couldn't be happier, although the price could be a little lower.	2003-02-17
US	43861613	R9WOG5S05OCEY	0060934700	26552478	Smoke and Mirrors: Short Fictions and Illusions	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A fine book of short stories	While not every story in this collection is perfect hit, \\"The Goldfish Pond\\" and \\"Murder Mystery\\" make up for any flaws. A great book.	2003-01-15
US	43861613	R9AD7EUPQVJ6L	1880216620	989514363	Speaks the Nightbird	Books	3	4	9	N	N	And adequate entry	I loved the first 400 pages of the book. As the mysteries and plot threads began to emerge and revolve and tangle, I was fascinated, waiting to see how McCammon would explain the strange goings on in his wonderfully real and remarkably detailed little town.<br />And then he brought out the machete. Plot threads came to a screeching halt with bald description that did nothing to forward the story as a whole, the protagonists suddenly gained remarkable abilities and faculties never before to described and the &quot;plot twist,&quot; the answer to the whole mystery, was a bitter disappointment.<br />But the first 400 pages are great, and the book ends adequately enough.	2003-01-07
US	43861613	R3VFTFE0YIZP6T	188795340X	359947769	Creatures of Rokugan	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A fun sourcebook	My only problem with this book is that it seems useable almost exclusively for the Rokugan setting. As the title of the book sort of gives that away, I figure it's only fair to take off only one star for this minor flaw in an otherwise remarkable beastiary.<br />This opinion rests chiefly on the inclusion of the Taint statistic, which is really only useful in Rokugan. To be fair, it can be removed, and without really altering the balance of the book.<br />What I particularly appreciate about the book is that they don't assume that every creature that may have an extradimensional origin must be an \\"outsider,\\" as most other books do. If a creature can be a part of the local ecology, it really can't be considered completely outside the ecology, so it can't really be an outsider. It's nice to see that here.<br />The illustrations are nice nough, although lacking in detail in some cases. At the very least, they match the monster descriptions, which is more than I can say for some of the Monster Manual descriptions. (I'm looking pointedly at the Grick here)<br />On the whole, these monsters should at least serve to get the imaginative juices flowing for non-Rokugan DMs, and prove an invaluable resource to those playing Rokugan.	2003-01-07
US	43861613	R1WVHQNRG6T6YZ	0441805841	508596992	Thieves' World	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	A good bunch of short stories	Playing out like a who's who of the fantasy writing world, this book is engaging and entertaining and, at times, quite emotional. I highly recommend this book, and this series, to anyone interested in fantasy books.	2002-12-03
US	43861613	R2J4RC6MB2QTF6	188817367X	347228257	Less Than Words Can Say	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A great book	More a book on philosophy and the nature of thought than the problems and trials of language, Mitchell has put together a remarkably thoughtful and well-planned book.<br />He takes apart bad writing with skill and aplomb, but does so without exposing the bad writers to unnecessary, uneducational humiliation. Some would say he needs to lead with a gentler hand, but I think he does a good job of showing how poor language skills lead to poor thinking ability.	2002-12-03
US	43861613	R1TVCKD9ZNHVGV	0310900956	39627424	Life Application Study Bible, NASB	Books	4	15	20	N	Y	A good text, with only minor problems	The study notes are the only thing that keep this Bible from reaching 5 stars. They're basically just repetitions of sermon points and minor explanations of major topics. I'd much rather the books take time to really get to the heart of some of its points rather than take a general approach.<br />One thing I really liked: the short bios, about one every 5 or 10 pages, for prominent biblical characters.	2002-10-29
US	43861613	R2KPSGKKHIZDOP	0345407857	734682067	The October Country	Books	3	7	20	N	N	Not his best, but good enough to collect	The stories in this book run a bit short on character and some of them have the stink of contrivance to them, but there are enough really good stories (The Jar, Uncle Einar, The Lake) that the flaws of the books are well out-weighed by the strengths.	2002-10-29
US	43861613	R1M8QMRWMTS7K3	156686903X	999017626	Final Fantasy VIII Official Strategy Guide (Video Game Books)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	All the information, poorly organized	There's no way you will read through this book and find yourself less prepared for the game. It's written in an easy style, with a tendency to hide major plot points, and all the information needed to beat the game lies herein.<br />The only problem is, it's all over the place.<br />In the end, my wife and I ended up using a series of Post-it notes and envelopes and several times in the game we both had to consult the book to find out how to continue onwards. Rather frustrating.	2002-10-24
US	43861613	R3RQQ8R7NYJY1Z	0971438013	502874917	The Shaman's Handbook (Master Classes)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A wonderful addition to the d20 family	This isn't a power class, although a shaman can be quite powerful.<br />This isn't a class that simply begs, borrows and steals from other classes to make an amalgam. This is a new, unique and interesting class, one that was definitely missing from the spiritual worldview of the d20 universe.<br />Well-written, intelligent and obviously well-researched, I recommend this book to any players interested in playing a spiritist character and to any DMs looking to add some dimension to their &quot;primitive&quot; or indigeneous cultures.	2002-10-08
US	43861613	R2LYB6U5IOVZYC	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A steady story, a complex morality and good art	This graphic novel has everything you could ever want. The characters are well-developed, if a little morose and deeply in need of therapy. The plot is complicated, with a lot of twists and turns. The morality is more complex than a four-colour comic, adding an extra dimension. The art has sometimes been mocked for being a little to realistic, but I thought it was quite good and I liked that the artist was obviously enjoying what he was drawing.<br />So, why not five stars? Because it's not Eisner's \\"Into the Storm.\\" That's all.	2002-10-07
US	43861613	R245XMUHAI0MJ	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	2	1	1	N	N	But the aliens are cool	I'm judging this book having read it once, waited a year, and then read it again, and this book did not survive the journey well.<br />Every plot twist was predicted, every villain was a stereotype, everything, everything in this book could be seen in advance or simply mirrored some other book or story, and served only as a pale imitation of the sources it copied. The only good thing in this book were the aliens. Sorry, better luck next time.	2002-10-04
US	43861613	R1WON4GNISD3I5	0312875789	376319675	The Last Hot Time	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Inimitable	Leave it to one of the genre's true originals to write an urban &quot;elves-in-civilization&quot; novel four or five years after the trend died and still make it a success. What genre is John M. Ford? Who knows. That's part of what makes him a true original.<br />This is a fully realized world, although we don't get a full glimpse at every detail. He keeps us just outside, telling us what we need to know for the story and leaving much to mystery. Not because he wants a sequel, I think, but just because, well, how much do we really know about our own world? His characters exposition enough to get us by, each one giving us a hint at the world, making a beautiful tapestry.<br />At any rate, it's his mastery of character and ability to create magic with dialogue is what pulls you along, not the story. These are some of the most vivid characters this side of Charles Dickens.<br />My one complaint about the book, the only thing that brings it down to 4 stars, is the somewhat pat and rather forced feeling of the ending. Suffice it to say, I can't say just what bothered me about it, but trust me, it was a bit of a let-down. The rest of the book is more than worth the price of admission, though.	2002-10-01
US	43861613	RACURGLZTKWNY	0737302712	336267595	Bangs and Whimpers: Stories About the End of the World (Roxbury Park Books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	What a great collection	At turns funny, sad, triumphant, poignant and everywhere in between, this anthology is probably the best I've ever read. Just great stuff.<br />Highlights are Nine Billion Names of God, Manhattan Phone Book (abridged) and We Can Get Them For You Wholesale.	2002-09-25
US	43861613	R2BQL8HBNR1C8I	0786928735	813281855	Monster Manual II (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	The first thoroughly useful accessory	After a number of fits and starts and just plain useless books, at last the mighty powers that be have delivered a good book with useful information, clearly-written text and attractive presentation. Not all the illustrations are great and some of the monsters are just throwaways put in to provide variety, but on just about every page there's something to wet the appetite of any DM.<br />As my current group is heading into 10th level plus territory, the beefy monsters are a welcome addition and the ideas for new races are helpful in designing friendly NPCs and dastardly villains.<br />A great book.	2002-09-25
US	43861613	RYYGAD66IKT2L	1588460770	633552865	Denizens of Darkness (d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying, Ravenloft)	Books	3	5	10	N	Y	Some great templates but . . .	There's very little else going for this book.<br />The slavishly alphabetical structure, combined with the lack of a good index, makes it difficult to find what you're looking for.<br />Plus, some of the classic beasties are included, but others are excluded in favour of some rather odd choices. On the whole, a worthwhile addition to the collection of any DM, if only for some of the nifty undead templates, but an imperfect book at best.	2002-09-05
US	43861613	RVP15V8UU6Y8W	0061020621	690753180	Reaper Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remember the part when . . .	The wonderful thing about Pratchett's novels is that they're endless retrospective. That is, no matter how long it's been since you've read one, you can still require specific moments in the book with uncanny accuracy and they're still gut-splittingly funny.<br />There are too many of those kinds of moments in the book to describe. An almost endlessly entertaining book, and one of Pratchett's best, next to Small Gods and Soul Music.	2002-08-21
US	43861613	R322H48QMGL6F	0786926589	146361328	Epic Level Handbook (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Really good stuff	I think a lot of DMs were expecting the wrong thing from this book.<br />They were hoping for a book that would give them step-by-step instructions on how to keep challenging their higher-than-high level characters. Well, you know what, that's just not possible. As this book demonstrates, by 25th level, a rogue could be master of all the guilds in a game world, the greatest relic hunter ever or just one of a number of high-powered rogues, still answerable to older, or at least more experienced NPCs.<br />Really, at about 15th-level, the games is blown wide open and characters become capable of handling just about any challenge the DM has to offer, given time and opportunity. The best this book can do is make those adventures more entertaining and just as full of creativity.<br />From new and unusual uses for skills to brand new feats and a nifty way of looking at the spell system to cogent, concise rules on character development beyond 20th level, this book has it all.<br />As with many general source books, the magic items kind of falter a bit, but that's mostly because the ideas you and your group come up with are bound to be better. Let's face it, when you have several million gold pieces and want a custom-made magic weapon, you aren't going to go for one in a catologue.<br />Oh, and the monsters made me all tingly with anticipation.<br />(To my gaming group)<br />C'mon, level up already, I've got new ways to try and kill you!	2002-08-19
US	43861613	RD45HE5OPFFGH	0743400429	808159287	Ghoul Trouble (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Captures the feel of the series	When I'm twenty pages into a book and already asking myself if the author's written other stuff and where can I order it, that's usually a good sign.<br />Passarella does a superb job of capturing the feeling of the series, down to the odd, syncopation of the individual characters' speech patterns. The plots are handled well, in general, and while characters behave as you'd expect them to, there are still a few surprises.<br />My only complaint is with the Solitaire sub-plot. This day-walking vampire idea was great, I loved it, and then there was this added twist and I was wondering what would happen and then . . . well, I don't want to spoil the book, but let's just say that plot thread ends rather more anti-climactically than was necessary.	2002-08-19
US	43861613	R3OKM5C6HXZ9ZI	0877845603	765432080	The Tower of Geburah (Archives of Anthropos)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very good allegory, but . . .	This book has sword, sorcery, excitement, corruption, betrayal, redemption, war and . . . well, lots of nifty stuff.<br />This is a great yougn adult book and really hums along. The only parts of the book that feel forced are the moments when the children should clearly be in grave, life-threatening peril but are protected by the authors desire to seem get through relatively unscathed. Still, he manages to avoid the peril of having his heroes constantly rescued and simply gives them unbelievable luck.<br />A great book.	2002-08-16
US	43861613	R17GRMKBGBVCWB	0742516814	270871597	Fighting the Forces: What's at Stake in Buffy the Vampire Slayer	Books	4	47	51	N	N	Cogent, scholarly, entertaining	Now, let me start by saying that I don't typically read scholarly books about television series. Quite frankly, most of them are just chock-full of flowery, useless speech and precious little actual information or well-argued opinion.<br />I picked up this book because I'm a huge fan of Buffy and I wanted to see how badly a bunch of academics would mangle the themes and structures Joss &amp; Co. employ on a weekly basis. Odd as this sounds, I was disappointed to find myself greatly enjoying each and every essay.<br />Now, not each one is a perfect gem and a couple of them made me wonder if the writer had ever actually sat through and enjoyed a single episode, but some of those essays were the most entertaining because they were quite thought-provoking.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who's a long-time viewer of the show, regardless of academic experience, although it doesn't hurt to have a B.A. in something under your belt.<br />This book receives four stars simply because of a few minor grammar and spelling errors. In any other book, I'd let it slide, but this is supposed to be made by real professionals and should be perfect in that regard.	2002-08-13
US	43861613	R1R5UOADD7OJ3C	0786926538	902998649	Masters of the Wild: A Guidebook to Barbarians, Druids, and Rangers (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Accessory)	Books	3	8	12	N	N	An uneven effort	This books just doesn't have a whole lot going for it.<br />The items list is, well, uninspired. Not a whole lot happening there. It's mostly items that smart DMs have already had in their campaigns for a long while and the scale of power is less than impressive. I was hoping we'd see the ranger equivalent of a paladin's holy avenger but, no, they get goggles. Neat. Still, the items are useful, I have to say that, just not particularly original.<br />The feats are probably the best section. They really flesh out the druid and the barbarian well, giving players the chance to do something unique and different with the character. Often overlooked are the really hideous things you can do with the feats. With minimal effort, you can have a ranger that can drop critical hits on undead, which is a very good thing.<br />The prestige classes are the most uneven portion of the book. They vary from the munchkin class to the excellent.<br />The spells are a very nice, earthy bunch that bolster some class weaknesses and work on some established strengths. I particularly like the regeneration spells for the druid and have already started working them into magic items.	2002-07-10
US	43861613	RJZ2220I7BJ30	1931886016	771290453	Grandia II Official Strategy Guide (Versus Books)	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Lousy walkthrough, but I made it somehow	... While it doesn't give spoilers, which I appreciate, it also offered precious little strategy and no insight into how the actual system of the game works. Also, the language was frustrating. I realize this was a publication written by a veteran gamer, but the grammar, spelling and syntax are absolutely awful, like reading an e-mail from a pre-teen.<br />Still, it did ensure that I didn't miss anything, so I can't complain too much.	2002-06-27
US	43861613	R1M3HPM52YLVXY	1888173947	249455382	The Gift of Fire	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Simple, elegant beliefs in a readable language	I've never read a book quite like this one. It manages to be scholarly but entertaining, educational but entertaining and . . . well, just plan good, cover to cover.<br />My favourite portion of the book covers Jesus' confrontation with the teachers of the law concerning a woman found in adultery. The author is straightforward in his approach to the situation and, by not bogging himself down with needless pedagogy and epistemology, shows the simple wisom of Jesus and how it can apply to us.<br />We all should read this.	2002-06-27
US	43861613	R2GC5HQVCO7PEO	0374386137	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (A Wrinkle in Time Quintet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Undeniably one of the best books ever	From the first time I read this book, I knew that I was hooked. Ever since that day, which was in the early 80s, I have read at least one L'Engle book a year, normally three or four. She is an amazing writer, a kind and generous person and &quot;A Wrinkle In Time,&quot; the book that started it all, is still one her best books.	2001-06-11
US	43861613	R5BXHCJF3YQ1X	0917479084	739663067	Knee-Deep in Thunder	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	The best I've ever read.	When I was eight, I read this book for the first time. I read Knee-Deep in Thunder at least twice a year for the next ten years. Then the library closed down and sold off all their books. I don't know where this book went, but I missed it. For two years.<br />Majesty, tragedy, myth, beauty, friendship and the eternal human search for meaning in a world gone mad power this book with an energy that I've never found elsewhere.<br />A cast of bugs, accompanied by two ragtag young people, shouldn't feel as real as this does, but each character somehow rings true. If you have not read this book, you are missings out on a real experience.<br />&quot;How many a man has measured a new passage in his life from the reading of a good book. -Henry David Thoreau	2001-05-24
