US	44127824	R1PSD5T6ZJX0P2	0553269631	692550038	The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Inside Room	I loved this book for its brutality, though that wasn't the only criterion. The prose is stylistically beautiful, and McCullers makes good use of shifting tones and dialects: Though the book is seen in third person, the passages spotlighting each character assume the diction of that character. The characters are believable and well-crafted, and there are ideas harbingerial of future crises. Jake Blount's Communist sympathies are vocal only a decade short of the \\"Red Scare\\" and McCarthy's obscene witchhunts; and in Doctor Copeland's war on racial oppression are hints of the militance and demonstrations of the Civil Rights movement only two decades past. It's not a matter of prescience, but a matter of a writer making good use of contemporary events. <br />The brutality I alluded to is not entirely violent, nor sexual as the blurb suggests. The dust jacket referred to this as an \\"Innocence Lost\\" parable, with the minor event of Mick Kelly's unmaidening apparently labeled the pivotal event. The climax is in fact the death of John Singer, the genial deaf-mute. Singer becomes an advocate and friend to a menagerie of damaged and impotent small-towners. Singer is the more successful of two confidants, the other also-ran being Bif Brannon, the proprietor of the New York Cafe. Brannon sticks up for the \\"freaks\\" and rejects who wash up on the streets of the town, part of which commiseration may be accounted for by the fact that he is himself an oddball, a romantic who collects old newspapers and dreams of having children even as his wife suffers with cancer. Or his sympathy could stem from aa simple sense of ennui. Though this is less likely, there is given evidence for both contentions.<br />Of the two, Singer is the more inviting, while Brannon is the more stable. Naturally Brannon is a bit suspicious of Singer's always open arms. <br />But Singer's attachment to his friend Spiros Antanapolous is the prevailing relationship. It is clear that Singer sees in both his new friends and in Spiros not only lonesome bedfellows, but a collection of people to coddle and sympathize with. Singer exorcises demons and allieves his own dejection with kindliness. When Spiro's kills himself, Singer realizes that all the relationships he's built can be just as easily broken as was Spiros. His suicide is not entirely due to his sadness at losing his friend, but at the sadness he predicts at the unavoidable loss of his new friends. As the novel is building to its crescendo, the characters are seen crumbling under the heft of strict and unfriendly southern ethics and society. The dream Singer has is support of this: Spiros naked at the top of the stairs represents Singer's ideal mate, a frail and vulnerable person put there for him to take care of. Singer is naked to his new friends, and they are naked to the captious town and family who fail to understand either their own unhappiness or that of those four. When Singer meets the mutes in the pool hall and can't relate to them, clams up and becomes uncommunicative, it is because he has exhausted all his understanding and intellect and energy on other people's behalf.<br />The unflinching portrayal of human hurt is worthy of twice as much paper and ink, especially with McCuller's handling.	2002-08-01
US	44127824	R3KWXQSJG1CBY9	080712320X	234847922	Running a Thousand Miles for Freedom: The Escape of William and Ellen Craft from Slavery	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Engrossing	I read this for a college history survey course before it was mistakenly announced that the book was out of print.  The book was dropped from the syllabus, but I am glad I read it anyway.<br />The first and shortest part of the book is William Craft's powerful account of how he and his wife Ellen executed a daring escape from servitude in Georgia.  Their plan was remarkable in its ingenuity: The almost white Ellen, outfitted with a master's clothes and a poultice on her face to prevent incriminating speech with strangers, and her husband William, disguised as a servant, escaped to freedom in the north.  Travelling by rail, the pair exultantly crossed over into Canada and from thence headed for England.<br />The second part of the book is a third person summary of the couple's travels after their ambitious escape.  It follows them from Georgia through the slave and free states, in which they were well received and protected (especially in Boston), up to Halifax and across the water to England.  I found the final two thirds of the book the most enjoyable, as it treated of foreign travel, in which I have a keen interest.  Both portions of the book are beautifully written and often gripping.  I hope a few of my classmates read this before that announcement.  This book is both pleasurable to read and historically vital.	2002-07-31
US	44127824	R1ZCJBANNDSBTS	9998449456	656402032	This Stranger My Son a Mothers Story	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Heartening	Back when I read this, I was stunned.  That year, my fifteenth, I was diagnosed with major depression-My onus, in common with a million others.  I had fallen into a rut over the diagnosis, the possibility of an indeterminate medication regimen, etc.  After reading this book, I realized a few things, felt a few alterations in my own attitude toward my new future as hinted by a doctor's prescriptions and diagnosis forms.<br />It hurt to read this book, but once I'd finished it the ideas swarming in me were many.  I was reminded that, unlike Tony, I had the chance to make friends, find and accept love, and cope with trauma however minor.  Later, I ammended this sentiment by deciding that Tony indeed has every chance I have.  With the proper medicine and patience from those unfamiliar with his condition, Tony had and has every chance given anyone else to interact, make pacts, receive a phone call from a friend, and on and on.  <br />What I at first found painful about the book: The similarity between the bookish and friendless state of Tony's schizophrenia and that of my depression (I refer to junior high and high school days as &quot;The Monastic Years&quot;).  This heartache soon sublimated into a form of bleak hope.  I realized years later, after my reassessment and new label of &quot;bipolar&quot;, that both Tony and I are ill, and must adapt and grow as best we can within our respective cocoons.  Thankfully, there is boundless help both in family and friends.  I sincerely wish the best to  Tony, wherever he is, and hope he has found the happiness once denied him by a simple chemical disruption.  <br />Now all I have to say is, why is this out of print?	2002-07-31
US	44127824	R13M6A8TC62Y1W	0140435123	16284361	Nicholas Nickleby (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Review	When I first met Dickens in some dark library in the halcyon days, back when I wasn't expected to earn my keep and act sensibly, I didn't give what it takes to appreciate Dickens. In school I read Great Expectation and Tale of Two Cities reluctantly, almost as if in reading them I was scaring off all of the patience I could muster in reading Steinbeck or Kesey or something more savory.<br />When I picked this up, read it, and decided to review it, a roadblock loomed: Did I love this book because it was one of Dicken's earliest and seemed to nonethelss be his strongest and most entertaining book? Was it this and/or the fact that reading the two aforementioned books cover to cover, word for word, was a silent and unconscious expression of my secret love for Dickens? Or was it just the book itself that elicted this almost euphoric mild-enthusiasm? <br />Whatever the reason for it, I enjoyed this book. The storyline is dynamic and diverting, but the pace of the prose is leisurely. It is, after all, close to 1000 pages long. The plot is that of a Dickens novel we've all either read or heard in abstract: Nicholas, the son of a poor relation in the family, sets out on some adventures, thrashes Wackford Squeers, befriends Yorkshiremen and joins an acting troupe and saves a helpless ward from abuse and misery, comes back and protects and saves his family from the evil usurer uncle Ralph, on and on until you wonder how a line of narrative so simplistic can encompass 900 pages. What kept me at this book, even at those rare moments at which the pat and summary triumph of good over evil being repeated over and over almost tried my patience, were the caricatures. Dicken's forte was always in disabling his enemies with words. There are the host of villains to be cut down here, both by humor and by scathing realism: Poor schools, the British welfare system, and moneylenders are given bitter portraits in Wackford Squeers and his squalid Yorkshire school, and in both Ralph and ArthurGride, who vies with Nicholas for the hand of Madeline Bray. Squeers himself is a comic figure, despite his violent tendencies. He is a scathing example of what Dickens seemed to feel was the cancer of Victorian society: A stupid man with intellectual affectations, a man crual to children who nonetheless treats his own children more or less affectionately, bringing into critical light the common family man. Mr. Mantalini is an on-target depiction of an indiscreet loverboy, a man who abuses the trust of those who most love him and tolerate him. His downfall is both comic and morally justified. The story is leavened as well with many of Dickens' trademark \\"nice guys\\": Both the protagonist and his young, consumptive friend Smike are aided on their journeys by Dickens' idea of good hearted people: The wealthy but compassionate Cheeryble brothers and their jovial clerk Tim, Miss La Creevy, a wonderful soinster who shields Mrs. aNickleby and Nicholas' sister Kate from Ralph as much as she can, John Browdie, the Yorkshireman responsible for both Nicholas' and Smike's salvation (one with money, the other in an even more admirable way), and Mr. Newman Noggs, Ralph's lovable clerk who aids Nicholas in his every pursuit. Here a problem occurs to me: It's the broad brush syndrome. Think of this: Squeers, by his very nature, can't do good, is unadulterated evil, and gets comeuppance-The end. Same for Ralph, same for Arthur Gride. Nicholas, Smike, Noggs, La Creevy, etc., are all virtuous, models of probity and Christian ideals. They are lavishly rewarded.<br />OK: Why, Charlie, is everything that clear cut? I agree that Squeers is a worthless human being, and deserves what he gets. But is that the only dimension to the man? The same can be said of his family, and of Arthus Gride the suspicious usurer, and of Mr. Snawley, who tries to bring Smike back to the abusive Squeers. Ralph is not so easy to pin: He is seen as both intelligent and somewhat compassionate, though it is onlytoward the end of the book that this is seen. The point: If this is the only dimension to evil people, namely their transgressions and wickedness, and if Nicholas and his friends are necessarily good and infallible, why does it take 900 pages for the malevolent to be thwarted and the good saluted? And why can't the old addage \\"Virtue is Its Own Reward\\" never explored and/or established? After all, if Dostoevsky taught me anything, it's that the good and bad both get knocks. Golyadkin or the Man From Underground or Raskolnikov may do terrible things or could be beautiful and pure, but they all take a fall sometime. Some fellow reviewers will probably condemn me for \\"impatience\\". It's simply not a matter of impatience: It's a matter of artistic and situational credibility. If the good guys always win, why are the formalities of plot and character development and rising and falling action and hyperbole even needed? Just call all the characters static, apportion each his deserved share, and don't spend 900 pages moralizing.<br />I enjoyed this book, though. Pessimist that I am, I found my enthusiasm refreshed by the good-hearted machinations of Noggs against Ralph. I laughed heartily at Mr. Mantalini, pondering at the same time how Mrs. Mantalini could tolerate him so long even as he wrecked her business and drove her near bankruptcy. When Miss La Creevy and Tim Linkinwater married, I shed a tear, though I later snickered at my impressionability. Such characters as the basically good Lord Frederick Verisopht, who goes from villain to decent human, renewed my interest. I really did enjoy this book. I just didn't think that the black and white was as appealing as more colorful and well rounded characters and scenarios would have been.	2002-07-18
US	44127824	R3LPUFAARD5E0L	0141181249	920628150	The Enormous Room (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Cumming's Salvation...	Reading Cumming's poetry was never a priority in my school days, except such excerpts as appeared in my far from comprehensive American Lit book.  After reading this, I wish I'd paid more attention to this truly gifted writer.  <br />The Enormous Room is the story of Cumming's three month incarceration at La Ferte Mace, a squalid French prison camp.  Cummings is locked up as accessory to exercise of free speech, his friend B.  (William Brown) having written a letter with some pro German sentiments.  What Cummings experienced in those three months and the stories of the men and women he met are, despite the straits of the polyglot texture of the book, never other than fascinating.  At moments touching (the stories of the Surplice and The Wanderer's family), hilarious (the description of the Man In the Orange Cap is hysterical), and maddening (the smoking of the four les putains), this is a brilliant weft of memorable characters and not a little invective for the slipshod French goverment.<br />Something I noticed.  Though the book claims as its primary influence Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, I noticed a similarity with Thoreau's Walden.  In both books, there is the idea of self-abnegation breeding liberty and peace of mind.  The idea is to shear away all luxuries, all privileges.  But Thoreau had one very important luxury to his credit: Free will.  Whereas Thoreau chose his isolated and straitened existence near Walden Pond, Cummings' was involuntary.  So, if the touchstone of freedom both men share is valid, is not Cummings, by virtue of the unrequested nature of his imprisonment, the freer of the two men?<br />This is a fascinating, thought provoking, ribald and intelligent book. I only regret that the Fighting Sheeney was never given commupance...	2002-05-06
US	44127824	R3DEH4JZ0I201E	B00005XCDI	602374673	The Chinese Ginger Jars	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Nurse's Experience in China	This is an enchanting story in a somewhat pompous but fitting style.  Myra Scovel and her husband Frederick, a Presbyterian doctor, spent two decade in China, travelling from one corner to another, practicing medicine through the suzerains of both the Japanese and Communists.  The account of the treatment of a ward full of opium addicts, as well as of the Japanese invading the hospital/missionary post the Scovels owned, are well treated and exciting. Myra and her husband were also missionaries in India; this is mentioned briefly toward the end of this memoir.	2002-04-28
US	44127824	R178W5DBPGL5E7	0451526910	900945877	Arrowsmith (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Remember: Write the Review	...hard by having read the book.  Sinclair Lewis is a master craftsman of cumulative narratives.  It becomes a matter of collating details and making a composite.<br />The protagonist in this novel is a bit different from Lewis' other lead characters.  Whereas Babbitt was always a sell out and phony, and while Carol Kennicott succumbs to a parochial mindset at the end of Main Street (whether or not she admits it), Martin's retirement to a cabin with friend Terry Wicket is an indicator of something rare and refreshing in a Lewis novel: A leading light who doesn't sacrifice integrity for reknown.  There are any number of interesting minor characters to keep it interesting.  Leora Tozer, Martin's first wife, is a poignant dim wit, and the story of Max Gottlieb's (Martin's college idol) hard-luck-to-sell-out story is a perfect and diverting trial for Martin, a man dedicated to pure research without sponsorship from some results-and-profit obsessed pharmaceutical company.<br />This book is amazing, as are all Lewis novels I've encountered, in its intelligent depiction of unintelligent or, in some cases, misguided characters.  It is something of a departure to find Lewis treating a character as an honorable, not a money-grubbing, human.  This deserved its Pulitzer.  And, considering Lewis' opprobrium for the greedy American mentality, it's not hard to see him refusing said prize.	2002-04-28
US	44127824	R2K0K6TAW997BD	0192836684	223272136	Cousin Bette (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Rubric of the Realist Movement	This is a remarkable book, setting the template for Flaubert and Zola's respective journeys into the sordid human psyche. <br />Lisbeth is a peasant girl from Alsace, bitter at her cousin Adeline's preferential treatment during their childhood. Vindictive Bette decides to cut the family from its wealth, as well as to debase her family personally. It's not difficult when Adeline's husband Hector becomes so weak-kneed over a pretty face that he would compromise his family if it came to a choice between sex and relatives. Lisbeth maneuvers skilfully, befriending Madame Marneffe, an unhappily married woman with numerous lovers who only wants to see her sickly husband made a manager of his governmental department. Installed in this household as a spy for hector (who is smitten with Marneffe), Lisbeth works toward an alliance with Marneffe, on one side to destroy the Hulot's, on the other to gain the love of Count Steinbock, to whom Lisbeth is a benefactress.<br />I saw a feminist agenda in this novel. Consider: Whereas Hector Hulot is not frowned upon for his numerous infidelities, and indeed feels no guilt even though his longsuffering wife turns a blind eye, when Adeline, in trying to save her family, attempts to seduce a wealthy perfumer named Crevel, she fears dishonor for herself, and feels immeasurable guilt over the infidelity she never even commits. Could Balzac be commenting on the fact that both women and men should be allowed their indiscretions? Call it immaterial. Also, the female characters are by and large either intelligent and conniving (Madame Marneffe, Lisbeth), or beautiful and virtuous (Adeline, Hortense). The men are scandalously disloyal (Steinbock, Hector), or inneffectual and dissolute (Monsieur Marneffe, Crevel). A fresh perspective...from a male author. Great in every way, even if quite convoluted.	2002-04-28
US	44127824	R2QG8MJRYHVQ25	0192810898	45057575	Songs of Innocence and Experience: Shewing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul, 1789-1794 (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	A Fiery Forge	It may seem an immediate departure to discuss Blake's biography, but it must be considered. Leaving formal school at ten, Blake first entered a drawing school, very early evincing great artistic talent. An eight year apprenticeship with engraver James Basire was a milestone of Blake's rather low key life. Blake's talents in the art of engraving were immeasurably important to both the full expression of his poetry and visual art.<br />As a poet, Blake opted for an almost facile, rhythmic, lyrical approach. His metre was superbly tight, his vocabulary surprisingly controlled for an 18th century writer. Of the two parts, Songs of Experience is the better of the two; not only did five years give Blake's poetry just one more dash of prowess, but his topics are dealt with in a more effective and interesting manner. His subject matter also becomes more bleak, more wearily phrased.  A perfect example: Here is a stanza from ...Innocence's The Divine Image<br />For mercy has a human heart<br />Pity, a human dress<br />And love, the human form divine<br />And peace the human dress<br />Compare this with the poem of the same name in experience:<br />Cruelty has a human heart,<br />And jealousy a human face<br />Terror, the human form divine<br />And secrecy, the human dress<br />Whyfore this turnabout, from an almost sanguine mentality to one so dour and unmitigatedly bleak that Blake excluded this poem and attendant engraving in most editions of his Songs...<br />First, the death of Robert, Blake's beloved younger brother and apprentice. It is said that Blake stayed up a fortnight nursing his ill brother; a four day sopor followed. Later, Blake was to report that he was visited by Robert's spirit, laden with ideas as to the format of the Songs. ...Such poems as the Chimney Sweeper and the Little Boy Lost are frightful, cynical visions of the fractured side of London life. Take this stanza from Little Boy Lost, a story of a child martyed for speaking his mind:<br />The weepingchild could not be heard<br />The weeping parents wept in vain<br />They strip'd him to his little shirt<br />And bound him with an iron chain<br />And burned him in a holy place<br />Where many had been burned before<br />The weeping parents wept in vain<br />Are such things done on Albions shore?<br />This darker judgement of life does not preclude the two motifs most sacred to Blake: Religion and love. Poems such as the Clod and the Pebble, The Pretty Rose Tree, both Holy Thursdays, the Laughing Song, and the Lamb all explore some aspect of divine justice or the perverse or beautiful aspects of love.<br />Something fascinating: In that very racist, colony-crazy, native torching time, Blake iconoclastically treats the subject of race in the Little Black Boy, which describes a black child of such spiritual perception that he is able to guide his paler brethren on the path to God. This intimation of an oppressed race's closeness to an arcane but majestic God is a keynote in the study of the fiercely individualistic Blake. Buy this book when you see it.	2002-04-24
US	44127824	R1DDV83LFP69A3	0684804433	296077082	Look Homeward, Angel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	First book- And one of his shortest	Wolfe is known for his wordiness. So, 500 plus pages of oblique, almost pretentious prose could be too much for the average reader. The book is rarely boring, though. Actually, the more time you spend with this one, the more you will absorb, the more you will enjoy. Wolfe's descriptions of the characters and emotional climate of Eugene Gant and the townspeople of Altamont are stunning. University of North Carolina alumni, prick your ears: Chapel Hill, redubbed Pulpit Hill, was here put on the map more than half a century before Superchunk did the same thing with a different medium. The book never drags, and becomes pompous and a bit annoying only when the words \\"Oh, Lost!\\" crop up three or four times in a single paragraph.<br />A side note: Wolfe was, of course, a well read man. Something that dawned on me a while ago: There is an homage to the great poet William Blake here. Blake, after the death of his brother Robert, whom William was training as an engraver, claimed to see visions of his brother, instructing him on how to format Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience. Towards the end of the novel, Eugene Gant, grief stricken at the death of his brother Ben, weathered and aged though still in college, sees visions of his dead brothers Grover and Ben, swirling around him in a benign cloud of otherworldly wisdom and commiseration. Clever, Tommy.<br />A great book all round.	2002-04-21
US	44127824	R3D455UQMJXFJ4	0140443355	772785646	First Love (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Tragic Love Story...Plus	Turgenev creates prose so spare, yet so elegant you find yourself rereading entire paragraphs just to try to net some hidden agenda behind the simplicity. Turgenev's influence on Hemingway was probably never more brilliantly expressed than in these understated words from A Moveable Feast: \\"I had read all of Turgenev...(of Dostoevsky) frailty and madnesss...were there to know as you knew the landscapes and roads in Turgenev...\\"<br />This book is more than a simple love story between a young man and an older woman, though the idea of the shortness and depthlessness of young love is an important theme. There are also such themes as the dissolution and fall into poverty of the Russian nobility as seen in Zinaida and her mother, a former princess; the idea of 19th century Russia shrugging off the chains of serfdom and royal dominance is also explored in the vastly superior Fathers and Sons. Another noteworthy theme is alienation from parents and society in general; Vladimir Petrovich is dominated utterly by his menacing father and carking, gossipy mother. He grows to become a bachelor, rehashing his tragic story before a fireplace in an inn. Towards the end of the book, when Vladimir's father, who shares with Vladimir a strong affection for Zinaida, flogs the young girls arm with a riding crop, as well as the threat the father gives to one of Zinaida's numerous suitors, we are made to wonder exactly what part romantic relationships have in the alleviation or exacerbation of violent mental illness, or at least a violent and cold mindset.<br />This book, however deep and lovingly crafted, is a cipher next to Fathers and Sons. It's also a lot shorter; first time Turgenev readers might want to start here.	2002-04-21
US	44127824	R1CB8XBLGZUNT5	0374506280	7702393	Life Studies: and, For the Union Dead	Books	5	8	10	N	N	My Favorite Poet	Lowell is of the vanguard of American twentieth century poets, a man who created many brilliant works other than the two joined in this volume. In such poems in Life Studies as Beyond the Alps and A Mad Negro Soldier Confined in Munich, as well as his portraits of various friends and family, we discover a man capable of both acid humor and outright sadness. However, in Life Studies, these excellent poems are overshadowed by the towering biographical essay 91 Revere Street. In this touching memoir, Lowell describes distant, illustrious relatives, Amy Lowell being a famous but ostracized example, friendships wrecked in childhood, disquietude over a girlfriend who soils herself in class (in his embarrassment, Lowell sits in it), his formative years on the periphery of polite, conservative Bostonian society, and his fathers coarse, difficult superiors and buddies that cropped up in the father's job with the Navy. Though his poems here are outstanding, an uncomfortable question arises when one considers this essay: Would Lowell have been better off to employ his time as a prose stylist, not a poet?<br />For the Union Dead validates Lowell's decision to declare poetry his mode of expression. Poems such as the dolorous My Last Evening with Uncle Devereaux Winslow and Terminal Days at Beverly Farm expose a man groping for hope after the deaths of close relatives; Waking in the Blue and Myopia: A night explore, respectively, Lowell's mental illness and attendant three month hospitalization, and a night of insomnia that becomes a maelstrom of tortured reflections and half-hewn thoughts; The Drinker explores alcoholism as a product of foiled love, with a question as to whether pathology or sheer carelessness and love of idleness is the underlying shibboleth. Water, the poem that stoked my love for Lowell, uses a maritime theme to express sorrow over a lost love. Beyond the Alps, from Life Studies, is reprised here with an elided stanza reinserted at the behest of coeval John Berryman.<br />Lowell is one of those poets so gifted, so erudite, so steeped in classical literature, it's hard to grasp that, as he explains it, he was \\"less rather than more bookish than most children.\\" Much of the isolation evinced in Lowell's poetry, as well as the restlessness of his life, both as youth and adult, are radiantly eviscerated in these two collections.	2002-04-21
US	44127824	R2D52TG3KK0VZE	0374509476	329843762	Notebook 1967-68: Poems (FSG Classics)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	It's Been Years, but the residue...	...of this brilliant volume persists in mind.  After all these months spent buried in other books, it's incredible that such lines as &quot;off ering our leathery love/ we're fifty, and free!&quot; stick with me.  Lowell's descriptions of souls in Hell is unsettling, while he wears one vital influence (Fugitive John Crowe Ransom), while also tackling world unrest.<br />I will certainly be rereading this book.  If there was ever a doubt as to Lowell's genius, it's cut apart by this and other staggering works.  A must read.	2002-04-21
US	44127824	RO06AHL35VGY5	1558851380	240197806	The Moths and Other Stories	Books	3	13	19	N	N	An Interesting Cycle on Chicanoes in America	I read this for a Literature and Culture class.  We were presumably to read excerpts, but I finished the book, shut in that I am.  I found these stories at turns fascinating, poignant, and annoying.  The Moths is a touching and true-feeling story of devotion between a dying grandmother and her granddaughter.  As one reads of the narrator tenderly bathing her disoriented, cancer-gnawed grandmother, the question occurs: Is the author commenting on the selfishness of our attempts at helping others, our efforts offshoots of a feeling of \\"obligation\\" to our benefactors?  Or is it a comment on the Hispanic family structure, or merely an illustration of one moment?<br />Growing is a bittersweet story of sisterly devotion, from the hispanic perspective.  Naomi evolves from a perception of her younger sister Lucia as an onus (an escort) to a realization of her as a worthy, budding human being, all of which has for a catalyst a game of baseball played by some barrio children.<br />Birthday involves a young girls abortion, and is the sometimes lamentable introduction of stream of consciousness into the author's stories.  Other stories become more disturbing, both in topic (The Cariboo Cafe masterfully treats the brutality of the border patrol while neighbors studies the disintegration of urban hispanic neighborhoods), while Snapshots, the story of an old woman deemed crazy for her attachment to the past, is infused with a doleful brilliance.  <br />I have boundless respect for the technique of stream of consciousness, from Faulkner's babbling yokels to Woolf's introspective, ethereal characterizations.  But it has to be done sparingly (especially these days, when the technique is old hat) and adroitly.  These two stipulations are the only two for which Miss Viramontes does not answer in full on this work.  Still worth your time, though.	2002-04-03
US	44127824	RNT8LE5KTX972	0192838873	619137395	The Sketch-Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Irving the Satirist	There's more to Washington Irving than &quot;Sleepy Hollow&quot; and &quot;Rip Van Winkle&quot;.  Irving's life was an enthralling tale of world travel, high society, and other, bookish diversions.  He would have been, judging from the biography provided at the front of the edition I read, one of the most fascinating tale tellers of his day.  That comes across in the Sketchbook; but we also get an idea of the wicked, roguish sense of humor, that impeccable feeling for satire that Irving could deploy even upon those people he loved most.<br />The Sketchbook was written largely in England, at first as Irving was inheriting the family law business from his infirm brother.  Rankling under the confines of business that can seem insufferable to the creative mind, Irving turned his full energy to writing.  These sketches reflect a man passionate about many things, but who is always doctoring his reminiscences with timeless satire: Literature (The Art of Book Making and the Mutability of Literature, with, respectively, the writers of the new school being assaulted by the old favorites of western lit, and the talking book created in illustration of the fact of history's unkindness to many authors and receptivity to a few)is an abiding love to Irving, with every sketch preceded by a poem from antiquity to the works of Irving's coevals, and the stories themselves can make one believe Irving to have been downright pedantic.  For what other reason would he break the flow of innumerable stories with lengthy and often only tangentially relevant allusions.  Other stories,such as the delightful Christmas cycle and the numerous sketches with Shakespeare addenda, juxtapose Irving's love and ridicule of the English, especially the rural English, with their antediluvian customs (which Irving commends), and their increasing acquiescence to modern fashion (which he abhors).  Ironically, the very people whom he often ridiculed as pretentious, bombastic, destructive, prejudiced, and insensitive, loved him, perhaps because, at the same time, he lauded them for their refinement and their characters so analagous to those of the American people, whom he proclaims a young people, while the British should be something like elder statesmen, big brothers if you will.<br />The Sketchbook is delightful reading, if you can get past the author's bookishness and often archaic language.sitive, loved him, perhaps because, at the same time, he lauded them for their refinement and their characters so analagous to those of the American people, whom he proclaims a young people, while the British should be something like elder statesmen, big brothers if you will.<br />The Sketchbook is delightful reading, if you can get past the author's bookishness and often archaic language.	2002-03-25
US	44127824	R1OADGBWWZSBR8	0394747410	202685356	Pylon: The Corrected Text	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Liked It-Didn't Love It	Faulkner's humor, even in such lighthearted books as the Reivers, could never be called madcap.  Even when Lena hands Byron Bunch down from the truck bed as though he were an infant, the comedy is derived from a sense of startling humiliation and debasement.  That or it's as dark as shoe polish.  This latter option is the case in Pylon, which, despite its overall gravity, has many funny moments.<br />The story: An unnamed reporter in New Valois, some forgotten hamlet with the sole distinction of having a regulation airport that hosts diverting but empty and pretentiously-hyped plane races.  This reporter discovers a polyganous relationship between one pilot (Roger Schumman) and Laverne, whose shared son is of dubious origin.  Then, as always happens in a Faulkner novel, a great, sinuous spate of events kicks in.  The reporter is fired from his job (only to be rehired later) for obsessing over his new crew at the expense of his correspondence.  Later, the reporter embezzles a considerable sum from his office (this in addition to many times cadging money from his boss) to pay for a dangerous plane for Roger to fly against the owner's wishes.  Roger dies, the child falls by mother's indifference to the custody of the paternal grandparents.<br />Faulkner has, to my knowledge, never written a bad book.  This good, but often spotty book comes the closest to out-and-out failure as any work in the Faulkner canon of which I know.  I agree with an earlier reviewer, though: I'd sooner read Faulkner or Turgenev than the [stuff] most writers call popular fiction these days.	2002-03-16
US	44127824	R2JL9QWIPBNW1C	0394747410	202685356	Pylon: The Corrected Text	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Liked It-Didn't Love It	Faulkner's humor, even in such lighthearted books as the Reivers, could never be called madcap.  Even when Lena hands Byron Bunch down from the truck bed as though he were an infant, the comedy is derived from a sense of startling humiliation and debasement.  That or it's as dark as shoe polish.  This latter option is the case in Pylon, which, despite its overall gravity, has many funny moments.<br />The story: An unnamed reporter in New Valois, some forgotten hamlet with the sole distinction of having a regulation airport that hosts diverting but empty and pretentiously-hyped plane races.  This reporter discovers a polyganous relationship between one pilot (Roger Schumman) and Laverne, whose shared son is of dubious origin.  Then, as always happens in a Faulkner novel, a great, sinuous spate of events kicks in.  The reporter is fired from his job (only to be rehired later) for obsessing over his new crew at the expense of his correspondence.  Later, the reporter embezzles a considerable sum from his office (this in addition to many times cadging money from his boss) to pay for a dangerous plane for Roger to fly against the owner's wishes.  Roger dies, the child falls by mother's indifference to the custody of the paternal grandparents.<br />Faulkner has, to my knowledge, never written a bad book.  This good, but often spotty book comes the closest to out-and-out failure as any work in the Faulkner canon of which I know.  I agree with an earlier reviewer, though: I'd sooner read Faulkner or Turgenev than the [stuff] most writers call popular fiction these days.	2002-03-16
US	44127824	R3EJLG91L1A3CN	0803272596	273508397	Complete Poems (Revised Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Ernest the Lionized...Evidently he deserves every bit of it	I read this short volume without a clear conception of what Hemingway's poetry would turn out to be.  I'd always heard it said that Hemingway's economy in his prose rendered paragraphs into a poetry of their own.  But the dynamics of poetry are somewhat different from those of prose: While giving one untrammeled use of the English language (heck, you can even be forgiven a few perversions of grammar), you have to have an ear for meter, let the cadence exalt each verse into a brief apotheosis, where prose writing could take twice as much time to shoot its load.  Thankfully, Hemingway was as brilliant (and troubled) a poet as he was a novelist.<br />Hemingway's early poetry is a good indication of what he was soon to create.  From the facetious poems about baseball and high school track teams mimicking the verse of his idols,to the smart allecky \\"Blank Verse\\" (written as an imposed classroom assignment), we get a good sense of the wry, often witty Hemingway that was to emerge in parts of books such as the Sun Also Rises.  Yes, despite the suicide, despite the preoccupation with war and violent sports (bullfight, anyone?) Hemingway had a knack for giving life to people tersely, but with all the effect that a more prolix writer could.  (Take the descriptions of Jake drinking wine from a native's winesack on a bus, exultant at the thought of a fishing trip forthcoming.)  This, not to say joyful, but at least sometimes happy side to Pappa's poetry is almost completely supplanted by the style that dominated his years in Europe as a WWII correspondent, Cuba, and Idaho.  These poems are more technically adroit, sometimes beautiful, but introspective and often a bit more than morose.  Ironic: The same man who inveighed against Dorothy Parker for her failed suicide attempts blew his mind out in some corner of Idaho decades after he'd made a name for himself in literature so rockfast that, as long as there are the literate, there will be the Hemingway-lovers.<br />That notwithstanding, Hemingway made a name with Farewell to Arms, The Battler, et al.  These poems are brilliant, but, for the two of you who've never read a Hemingway prose volume, remember: His novels are just glorious poems with more action, characters and plot.  And are far more reflective of his genius than even these wonderful selections.	2002-03-13
US	44127824	R3V7LWI6VS36FX	0140441204	433284780	Therese Raquin (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	First Impression	I read this a couple months after reading Madame Bovary, so the similarities hit me pretty forcefully. Both are tales of passion overdrawn, become murderous energy. There are a few twists to this that distinguish it from Flaubert's far superior earlier work: Both illicit lovers poison themselves here, whereas in M.B. only Emma kills herself. This takes place in Paris...a corner of Paris less metropolitan and lively than we are used to being told of, but still a big city over Bovary's provincial France. And theissue of Cammille's mother having the stroke is an interesting idea. However, this can't compare with Bovary. Read them back-to-back if you don't believe me (and write your review within six months of having read the books, as I did not.)	2002-03-13
US	44127824	R39UAWFMHAIDCS	0553381008	865881389	Stories of Anton Chekhov	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Love these crazy Russians...	Dostoevsky, Turgenev, Chekhov...Whoo!  Goodness.<br />I read this when it was first published, but I can tell you so many of the small things, the details the accretion of which create breathtaking stories stick with me.  Easter Night remains remarkable.  The solitary traveler, stepping onto the ferry to cross the river, across which  a church is bursting with Easter celebrants...Ward No. 6 could have, in some respects, been a precursor to stories such as One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest and Girl, Interrupted (the movie in the latter case; the book, of course, is completely different).  The widely anthologized  Gooseberries is remarkable, while Chekhovs odd sense of humor can be seen in Death of a Clerk (a man dying just like that...because of an imagined bad impression on a fellow theater goer?); as well as Anna on the Neck (portrait of all marriages, high ranking or low?) and Rothchild's Fiddle.  I loved it.  I've yet to read his plays...	2002-03-12
US	44127824	R3SCLW5Z42WAIF	0393967522	178013325	Fathers and Sons (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Elegiac and Wistful with a Tragic Conclusion	The multitude of reviews for this very famous book...Well, son, there's nothing new to say in this review. So, here are a few of the things (some trifling) that gave me such pleasure when I read this back toward the end of high school.<br />1. The scene early in the book between Fenitchka and Pavel Petrovitch.  Later, Fenitchka confesses discomfort around Pavel, due to Bazarov's romantic advances in the garden.  Was I alone in seeing a bit of the ole wist of the bachelor (which is refered to several times in the novel, apropos of Pavel) in Pavel's appreciation of Fenitchka and babe?<br />2.  The duel between Pavel and Bazarov is masterfully and elegantly rendered.  Piotr cringing behind a tree in my edition's woodcut was a bonus.<br />3.  The melancholy that pervades the entire book.  Yes, I've weaned myself on Faulkner and Chekhov, where all humor is black humor.  Bazarov dying of typhus from surgical infection, Anna Sergeyevna appearing at the Illyitch abode dressed as a mourning wife, though she earlier spurned Bazarov's romantic advances...All minutely and beautifully portrayed.<br />4.  Description!  Character Development!: The moles on Arkina Illyitch's(Bazarov's mother)face, Pavel tugging his moustaches in moments of skepticism or perplexity.  Madame Kukshin, with her deranged Russian volumes and compound to render dolls' heads unbreakable...Why do I love this stuff?<br />Russian authors...You gotta love 'em!...	2002-03-12
US	44127824	R27RYVFQ1B5BCA	0380508494	623648507	Dangling Man	Books	5	4	6	N	N	More Sweets for the Sweet from Bellow	It's a perplexing thing: Reviews for later Bellow books (Adventures/Augie March, Mr. Sammler's Planet) definitely reflect a certain (Hell, let's say ponderous) prejudice against Mr.  Bellow's often philosophically charged, book-reference studded prose.  The reviewers for this book, I see, are at least giving Bellow's difficult but rewarding style a shot...even if, as his first book, it should provide the abstract, the gel for future Bellow fabrications.  Different readers...<br />This short book is depressing, I'll say.  The portrait of Joseph as he waits to be called by the draft in murky Chicago, as he becomes estranged from his wife and family and friends (he even assaults his niece), all the while relating his troubles to various authors' exemplary works (Goethe was mentioned by other reviewers); all this bound together under the umbrella of the atrabilious and taut war years (rationing, so on) does not make for the kind of reading one hopes to find in every bookshelf in Heaven (my apologies, agnostics and atheists).  But, as is true of most great literature (was Arrowsmith, after all, a very happy book...except for the end), the sad aspects shouldn't be given a second thought.  Just enjoy the incredible craftsmanship here.  You'll thank the Five Star crowd.	2002-03-12
US	44127824	R32331BMVM4WZ4	0156234920	954039703	A Curtain of Green: and Other Stories	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Review	This was the first Eudora Welty book I've read. Because this is my freshman year in college, I'm wondering why it took me so long.<BR>Like her senior, Southern cohort Faulkner, Welty concentrates her gentle touch on characters in and around Mississippi. Every story is remarkable in its own way, but there are a few standouts. &quot;Lily Daw and the Three Ladies&quot; is an amusing tale of a dim-witted girl who's on the brink of marriage, is snatched away, and then thrown right back when her beau comes calling. The Hitch Hikers is a brooding story of a murder in a traveling salesman's car. My favorite is The Key, in which a filched key gives doubtful, deaf newlyweds new reason for hope of love and contentment.<BR>Miss Welty puts an incredible amount of feeling into her stories, but is not afraid to allow the charming or even picayune to provide distraction from the gravity surrounding. This collection encapsulates the famous Death of a Traveling Salesman. Lovely.	2001-11-02
US	44127824	R15FSQMVG0R9XN	030680896X	68574387	The Life And Legend Of Leadbelly	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Definitive and Informative	This is a fascinating biography of one of this century's truly seminal artists, from his days in the Shreveport red light district to his jail terms in Huntsville and Angola, LA., on through his &quot;discovery&quot; by John and Alan Lomax. The book is exhaustively researched and will delight both blues fans and history buffs.	2001-08-16
US	44127824	R37GLTKZKG2GCD	0553214861	53359311	Babbitt (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Like Jello after Sorbet-Post Main Street Blues	I am not saying that Babbitt is unreadable, or even a discredit to Lewis in relation to his other work.  This was my first Lewis novel: A cynosure, a statement by the man who, with touches of Flaubert and Anderson, crafted painstaking and rewarding satires rife with conformists and cavaliers, and the boredom and outrage experienced by outcasts in small towns and mid-sized cities alike.  I read Babbitt a few years ago, and found it a delight to the last.<br />But it isn't Main Street, the book that helped to gel my admiration of Lewis' craftsmanship.  This is why I suggested that first time readers sound Lewis' art by trying out the earlier book before Babbitt.  It seems that those aspects that set Main Street like a needle in the eye of small town sameness and malaise: Incisive satire, wit and a mirthfulness that often counteract the more melancholy stretches; and a beautiful troupe of dissatisfied outcasts (Guy Pollock, the bachelor attorney; Miles Bjornstam, itinerant Swedish horse trader turned semi-settled by marriage; Erik Valborg, a tailor with a poetic bent who mispronounces words and runs off to Chicago to star in cheap pictures), are all overstated in Babbitt.  There are some surprises: Paul shooting Zeena, George's affair with Tanis Judique, and Ted's elopement with Eunice Littlefield.  But, overemphasis on George's hypocritical stance on liquor and his overconsumption of the same, as well as lengthy passages explaining the efforts George undertakes to quit smoking before unceremoniously lighting up again, put lead in the shoes of the story.  However, this is still a great book, with some startling prose to its credit.  Just give Main Street a glance before you give this a shot.	2001-08-02
US	44127824	R31P2UTUON6YNZ	055321439X	895324472	Winesburg, Ohio	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Magnificent Portraiture	Winesburg, Ohio preceded Main Street by one year, but was predated by the Spoon River Anthology.  Hand in hand with Masters and Lewis, Anderson gained immortality with this stunning exposure of the stifling American hamlet.  The book is really more a short story collection than a novel, though the piecemeal narrative is strung together by the presence of George Willard, a young man soon to depart for Columbus in search of newspaper work.  The vignettes are true miracles of simplicity and force; characters such as Wings Biddelbaum, the alleged child molesting school teacher, and Enoch Johnson, a mentally unstable young man who &quot;lost his voices&quot; while living in New York and who is now &quot;all alone&quot;, are drawn in sharp relief against the prosy drabness in their capsule of a town.  Perhaps less remarkable and eristic today than it was in the early part of this century, Winesburg, Ohio still deserves merit and attention among this or any other generation of readers.	2001-08-01
US	44127824	R3PTF3VWQQFPJ2	0451526821	559841412	Main Street (Signet Classics)	Books	5	72	77	N	N	Fantastic	Advice for first time readers of Sinclair Lewis: Start with Main Street. I started with Babbitt, a worthy novel, but inferior to Main Street. They share a nimble, though often heavy handed touch of irony, and good characterization; and Mr. Lewis' trenchant social commantary is present in both.<br />We all know the story: Carol Kennicott (nee Milford), educated at tiny Blodgett College, wants action: She wants to travel and live in a big city where she can see plays and hobnob with intellectuals. She meets future husband Dr. Will Kennicott at a St. Paul dinner party; (Throughout the novel, her feelings toward Will oscillate between admiration for his efficient practice and good nature, and discomfort with his depthless character). Will coaxes Carol onto a train bound for the hamlet of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota. The bulk of the novel, which, considering the context, could be considered picaresque, consists of Carol's haphazard attempts to reform the obdurate, immobile mindsets of the citizens of her new home. Among the improvements Carol suggests are a library board composed of the well read men of the town, and a campaign to renew interest in reading (In a town where the great books are bypassed for the contemporary moralistic, optimistic, and religious authors), and a theater company containing one fine actor and a supporting cast of hams, who bungle through one play (the frivolous &quot;Girl from Kankakee&quot;; poor carol had Shaw or Sophocles in mind. Throughout the novel, Carol evinces a blinding fear of living as a stereotypic denizen of the American Main Street; her fears are intensified by the birth of her son another fetter that could prevent a night train escape from Gopher Prairie), and the loss of several friends (the most notable being Miles Bjornstam, a Swedish horse trader who leaves for Canada after his wife's death) Made desperate by the seeming ineffectuality of her reform efforts, and these fears of decline into a town matron, Carol runs off to Washington D.C. for a period, before returning half broken to Gopher Prairie, tractable while still picturing herself as a maverick.<br />A five star review does not preclude qualms over a piece of literature. Main Street is truly a marvelous book, but there are flaws. Irony peppered moderately in a story can lend life and humor; too much can overwhelm the reader with a sense that the author has no other crutch than easy, predictable amusement. Also, this being an episodic novel, there sometimes seems to be little tying the book together save for the overpowering contagion of yearning for excitement, reform, and freedom that leaves Carol and others in Gopher Prairie so disappointed. These should not be deterent enough to suggest you steer clear of Main Street, though. As with every marred but overall fantastic booke light breaks the dark for the reader willing to overlook flaws that, were he or she writing the novel, he or she couldn't have ironed out. As glorious a work of literature as it is an historical document, this is a delight for any serious or recreational reader.	2001-07-31
US	44127824	R1LFWPXA6RKYVV	0380003856	526146454	Harold and Maude	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Short but Breathtaking	Here is a novel that, as simple as it is, seems the succinct statement of the universal free spirit. Colin Higgins gave a rare power to his lovers; the supporting menagerie of hypocrites and the chimera of convention add color. As a love story, as a lively, hellraising entertainment, as a serious intellectual endeavor, Harold and Maude is stunning.	2001-07-29
US	44127824	R2B4VWLELO72QE	0679741925	174144380	The Reivers	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Faulkner's Finest	Another marvelously wordy Faulkner novel, though this time the story is unfettered by stream-of-consciousness. This showcases precisely what there is to love about Faulkner: Believable characters still fanciful enough in their predilections to keep a person awake; sound and multilayered plotline; fascinating locales and locals. The only complaint could arise when one considers that more than three hundred pages of dense prose is funneling out of an old man to whom his own life at eleven could hardly be that clear. Of course ,this is a novel, with disbelief suspended shortly after you pick up the book. Truly remarkable; great for the casual reader.	2001-07-29
US	44127824	RXH9PU7XDX58T	038513553X	652117185	Inside Moves	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Flawed but Heartfelt	There is something tragic in the obscurity of a writer as talented as Todd Walton; the fact that this was Walton's first novel intensifies the feeling.  Notwithstanding the charisma and emotion with which Walton imbues his little creatures (Not to mention the fact of an equally obscure film based on the book), it would be a reasonable expectation to at least be able to get one's hands on the work without the hassle attendant to tracking down out of print books.  Without a computer, mind you.<br />Roary is a Vietnam vet: A big hearted but physically imposing fellow with a limp as a reminder of the war; his best friend is Jerry, a tough but likewise handicapped lad who happens to be a basketball virtuoso.  The two are pieces of a set of pawns holed up in Max's bar in San Francisco, owned by enigmatic, legless Max.  From this setting, Jerry's hopes of a miracle operation that could cure his limp drift up to us; the irrevocable fiats of finances, though, prevent this.  Roary sets out to help, at first by going into business selling wooden signs, before his partner absconds, though not without leaving Roary his share of the fruits of their venture.  Roary then picks up work at Max's; a philanthropic move by a basketball pro secures Jerry his operation, but at what cost?  It seems, at the cost of old friends and familiar haunts.<br />Walton is certainly a talented author; that said, there are flaws in this book that even the years that have elapsed since I read it can't erase.  The writing style is sometimes prosy and predictable, with the characters talking in that grammatically correct &quot;colloquial&quot; language (look at Faulkner for what I mean; four hundred 'aint's' in a sentence, and they still say 'going to' instead of 'gonna'); also, Walton seems to think the reader will feel short changed if an ideal ending is withheld.  But a book is a lot like a person: We have to weigh our complaints, and decide whether or not our reservations overpower our sense of good in the object being tested.  In this case, for all the triteness and heavyhanded irony of this book, there seems to be a dearth of people looking hard enough at the many nice touches to the book's credit.	2001-07-27
US	44127824	R2KZ8NK2TCEOEN	014018936X	277311248	Mr. Sammler's Planet (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Daunting but daedal writing-The Intense Saul Bellow	Judging from the lengthy screeds many readers have levelled at other Bellow books such as Henderson the Rain King and Humboldt's Gift, I surmised (even though I, in fact, read and savored the book a year ago, and this should have been a foregone conclusion) that there are certainly worse gateways to Bellow's rarefied noodlings than Mr. Sammler's Planet. The pronouncements of a few of the readers of this worthy book might say something else. But they don't.<br />This being, for the moment, the only Bellow book I've read, I will probably take to stockpiling Bellow paperbacks. I will admit that there are dry spells in a work otherwise sodden with splendid revelations of the labors and misfortunes of the characters; but these dry stretches seem to accent the many nimble plot thrusts and ingenious banter (especially between Artur Sammler and Dr. Govinda Lal, whose tome on possible colonization of the moon figures prominently in the novel.)<br />Prolix reviews, like prolix novels, must stop meandering at some point and hit the nerve. Here we go: Bellow is a master of baroque modernism: The novel is as intricate as a Balinese mask, and yet few if any details of moment are lost; all remain fixed in mind, at least until the next spate of characters and scenarioes from, say, a Faulkner novel make inroads on memory. The humor is plentiful (The pipe bursting vignette I found especially pleasing). But the most intriguing asset to this novel's credit is the indomitable, inscrutable Artur Sammler, pliant and compassionate, with an everlasting faith in the tenets of old, yet flexible enough to grace wayward youth with something more important than reprimands, or even compassion: Unobtrusive Wisdom. A fantastic book; a true touchstone for both vocabulary and philosophy.	2001-07-26
US	44127824	RU9UJK6RWN9RN	0553212702	287583721	The House of the Seven Gables (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Give it time...	Many complain that Hawthorne's style is too turgid, too stilted and dense to be enjoyable.  Admittedly, I was not that fond of The Scarlet Letter, though its merits probably rest beyond the attention spans of most people committed to reading it in lit class.  As anyone will tell you, it takes supreme effort and time to wend through any Hawthorne book.<br />I found The House of the Seven Gables much more enjoyable, a novel more accessible to the casual reader than the Scarlet Letter, but still imposing and impressive and just a bit pompous, as anyone can say of the little Hawthorne they have read.  The characterization is marvelous. The adumbration of Hepzibah's insular misery and Clifford's simple minded pariah-hood, and the reforming agent of Phoebe's love and rustic vivacity, as well as multiple other character sketches and glorious descriptive passages, are what carried me through this novel.  Unlike in the Scarlet Letter, it seems as though the tedium (what little there is here) is always at some point made up for, as though Hawthorne was attempting to counterbalance certain dry passages with heavenly description and character revelations.<br />Those who detested the Scarlet Letter will likely find little but soporific tedium here; for those whose initiation into Hawthorne's craft was not overly harrowing, keep this one in mind for a rainy day.	2001-07-24
US	44127824	R1NVL44AJCQXZ7	0394743938	298940463	Nickel Mountain	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Shameful	It's a shame. My first taste of John Gardner's splendid craft was in the form of a rather slipshod excerpt of Grendel in my British Lit book, attendant to the excerpted Beowulf. Reading Nickel Mountain, I was struck by both an epiphany of sorts, the discovery of a brilliant author new to me; and struck by the injustice of the current out of print status of the work. The same quibblesome comment should attend a discussion of why Harold and Maude (the novel) isn't at the fingers of more of those otiose, over-caffeinated browsers in ....<br />Invective against certain publishers or readers aside, I will deem this book one of the best I've read in a while. Gardner had a knack for plucking scraps of sentiment and characterization and giving them  the reins over the story. The characters in Nickel Mountain are given the sort of emotion and are treated with the same intense, meticulous speculation that Steinbeck lent to his brilliant characters; this is the lodestar of a galaxy of seemingly muddled but, when examined pensively and closely, heterogeneous and multihued feelings; Gardner put a multifaceted heart into this novel. Revelations of aspects in the characters of Henry and Callie, and the myriad supporting characters in New Carthage, from Mr. Kuzitski, moribund from page one, to George Loomis, amount to a breathtaking and touching expression of human interaction. Too stunning to be found only on a rack of unwanted, weathered paperbacks in a murky corner of a public library, where I found my copy.	2001-07-14
