US	44136297	RWJO866N7VJ6	0380773538	445765659	Midnight Angel	Books	3	38	42	N	N	Very uneven romance	This romance is very difficult to rate. The first half is so bad that I can only give it two stars, the second half is so much better that I would rate it with four stars. <br /> <br />The first half suffers mightily from a way too perfect to be true Mary Sue-heroine and the hero's obsession for his first late wife which  grated mightily on my nerves. Nothing against a hero who values his first marriage but a man who still grieves his wife after nine long years so much that he basically shuts himself off from the world and even has hot fantasies about said wife and not about the heroine is hardly romance novel material. Besides his initial reaction to the heroine as the new governess for his daughter is very negative and they hardly keep company with each other, Tasia even takes meals with the servants. To make it worse in the first half of the book the hero is not only still in love with his late wife, he's also very much sexually involved with a mistress.   <br /> <br />Thus the social interaction (not to mention the romantic interaction which is completely non-existent) with the heroine remains so sparse that Luke's revelation of undying love for Tasia comes utterly out of the blue especially since his sexual attraction to the very vulnerable Tasia had a twisted and cruel edge until that revelation which suddenly turns him from the brutal would-be despoiler of fragile child-women into a tender and protective lover. And the extremely pious Tasia who has not only been raised to be very god-fearing and innocent but also acts like a Christian martyr in Luke's household falls into bed with her employer as if she were a complete strumpet which  is all the more unbelievable since at that point she not even has any romantic feelings for Luke whom she hardly has seen or talked to and who treated her worse than one of his servants, not courting her at all.  <br /> <br />What did she see in a middle-aged, grieving and somewhat disfigured widower with a daughter not much younger than herself who was very rough to her, even accosted her and never paid her the slightest consideration that she eventually was able to cast her religiosity out of the window and never had any qualms afterward about having committed one of the deadly sins? And when the hero offers her marriage she refuses?! I don't mind people not being religious or very moral in a romance but if the author portrays them so pious and straight-laced in the beginning she should let them act at least a little bit consistent with their convictions.  <br /> <br />After the heroine blissfully and unrepentantly fornicates with Luke she becomes another person altogether, completely gone is the Madonna-like image of a devotedly praying, self-sacrificing and unworldly virgin and the author shows no believable motivation for this change whatsoever.  <br /> <br />Like in a bad soap where such drastic character changes happen frequently. Besides since the heroine was a single child, cloistered away with few relatives in the countryside and never had been to a boarding school-how could eighteen years old Tasia who led such a solitary existence possibly be a governess for a twelve ears old girl and deal with her like the most mature and experienced of stepmothers?! This is as marysueish as it can possibly get.  <br /> <br />Her Russian cousin comments her character in the latter half of the book  with the words: \\"We take our fates in both hands and mold them to our liking. You used your beauty, your wits and everything else you have to get what you wanted.\\" Now that image doesn't befit Tasia in the first half of the novel at all who was actually self-sacrificial  and virtuous to the point of self-destruction and repeatedly rejected Luke who wanted to protect her despite having already slept with him. Had she remotely been as Nicholas draws her in this conversation the novel would have been a lot more interesting, it would also have made the plot and  the actions of the characters appear muchmore consistent.   <br /> <br />But after that very unlikely premise and those drastic, unmotivated character changes on both parts the novel progresses just finely. The plot is quite suspenseful and romantic then. I had some minor quibbles with the way the author portrays Russian society and the way men and women interacted around 1870 which seemed way off. Obviously the authoress never touched Russian authors from the 19th century like Tolstoy or Dostojewski with a ten foot pole. Russian aristocrats were very worldly and cosmopolitan and the women had a much higher standing in society and marriage than the author makes us believe here. Nicholas is such a far-fetched character that one thinks he has time-traveled from the middle age right into the Russian salons of 1870.  <br /> <br />Not one of Kleypas remarkable romances and a very unbalanced effort. All in all three stars. Readers who don't like the extremely sheltered and young teenager heroines paired of with middle-aged womanizers should really stay away from this book. The hero is clearly very much attracted to Tasia's youth and childlike appearance (he thinks that Tasia doesn't look much older than his daughter who is twelve but nevertheless is attracted to her which I found slightly icky especially since his initial attraction to her frail and ethereal beauty has a sadistic edge which miraculously vanished though in the later part of the book) <br />	2005-07-12
US	44136297	R1HIIMNPHJRHL	0451214838	166167012	The Veil of Night (Signet Eclipse)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Very good romance, but not a dark Gothic romance	I think a reason why so many reviewers disliked that book is the wrong marketing. This is actually no Gothic romance because none of the heroes have a really dark secret and both are actually quite nice people. The sinister atmosphere is entirely misleading, there's nothing sinister about it at all which is why I loved it. I cannot bear a hero who treats the supposed love of his life cruelly and is miraculously redeemed in the end just to provide for a conflict. The conflict here is  really a believable one on the hero's side, he's a true tortured hero, but in this case there's no bad momma, evil mistress or traumatic war experiences that made him so tortured.     The problems he has are very real and any person who is faced with such tragedy would live like a hermit though he would possibly not make his personal tragedy such a secret. Unfortunately I knew his secret from the beginning because I had seen a movie before which dealt with something similar. The heroine's past is another matter, I couldn't quite believe that an adventurous character like her would shut herself away like that and become so stiff and conventional because of one misstep that nobody ever knew of-I bet many ladies made such mistakes and continued to pursue love and marriage nonetheless. That Victoria reacted to her past the way she did felt entirely contrived.    But the reason why I think this romance is still way above average was the heroine (contrived past put aside). A ripe woman of 32 and no childlike virgin queen here, she has not the romance-typical abused past and not a self-sacrificial bone in her body. The reason she gives in to Byron's indecent proposal is that she wants to give in for the thrill of it and to save her own skin. There's an instant erotic attraction between her and the hero. People who have enough of the self-flagellating Mary Balogh type of heroine or  the To stupid to live virginal heroine I-want-to-have-sex-just-once-in-my-live-with-a-handsome-stranger-but-rather-commit-myself-to-eternal-drudgery-and-misery -than-marry-a dashing-duke-afterward will be delighted. The book has its flaws but it has IMO a beautiful love story  and interesting un-formulaic characters. The ending was quite believable even if the whole premise of the story is somewhat wacky and contrived.	2005-05-11
US	44136297	R1QB4E45ERQRIE	1400034213	125402763	The Painted Veil	Books	5	18	21	N	N	I cannot add much what haven't been said before...	I agree wholeheartedly with the review of \\"misplaced human\\".    What I particularly liked was that the novel took such a different angle on the rather old theme of the shallow, beautiful and flighty socialite who marries a man who is far superior to her emotionally and intellectually and who stubbornly loves her toward the bitter end-despite her unworthiness. The adulterous heroine usually sees the errors of her ways and the worth of her husband very late, sometimes even too late. One the surface the book has all those plot elements-but if you look closely it is not that at all. The motivations and the hidden agenda of the characters-good and bad-are quite cleverly and subversively exposed by Maugham. None of the protagonists is what he or she seemed to be at first (with the possible exception of Kitty's \\"oily\\" lover).    Kitty's husband is not the romantic, thwarted  lover as one first pities him-in one of the key scenes of the novel shallow Kitty of all people is the perceptive and shrewd one in the relationship who has to explain intellectual Walter what his supposedly romantic love for her is truly about.    The book might not be for everyone but one thing it is not at all (unlike one reviewer here pointed out)-a novel with one-dimensional characters. I have hardly ever seen more multi-layered characters in a book written in that time period  which usually just pleasantly malign women like Kitty and put the men on  a pedestal who marry them. After all who we choose to love says something about our character, too and Maugham was one of the rare authors perceptive enough to detect that!	2004-11-04
US	44136297	R3VYYE7AK90JJ7	0743410556	286751184	A Woman of Virtue (Sonnet Books)	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Enjoyable, but love scenes are terrible	The main characters are likeable and though I didn't know the prequel I had no troubles getting into the plot. The story is compelling but not overly original, there are some very trite story elements in it which might annoy some readers (widowed heroine's past for example which was rather romance-stereotypical and felt very contrived).<br />However I even liked the contrived elements in this story, it was written  in a way that I could still enjoy it a lot.<br />The couple was clearly very much in love with each other and not afraid of showing it which I always find nice.<br />But amazon's sensuality rating of 8 and the allegedly heated love scenes, oh well, that's another rant altogether! I would have given the book a four stars review if those \\"love scenes\\" hadn't been in that book. I'm a sucker for a well-written erotic romance but that one was definitely one of the most unerotic ones I have read for quite a while. Reviewer CBDB's description of David's love-making as that of an electrician under shock is very apt indeed Outch. And there were no variations. That one really rough and almost brutal quickie where the heroine's poor head continually banged against something (just to give one aspect of David's clumsiness and callousness) occurred again and again and grated mightily on my nerves. It was the hero's only technique, obviously and he was very lucky to have such an undemanding, inexperienced partner. David seemed more to be like a pubescent, sex-starved school boy who never had a woman before in his whole life. Tenderness? Preparations? Seduction? What's that? And that man was supposed to be a rake and a skilled, famous lover? Give me a break! He must obviously have spent the six years he was separated from the heroine on a very deserted island....for a truly sensual and sexy romance try Kleypas. You won't be disappointed!	2004-01-24
US	44136297	R35E6VPBWKJQSC	0385337647	186149727	City of Light	Books	3	6	13	N	N	City of darkness would have been the more appropriate title	When I started to read the novel I know it would be a sad story-the author made that clear from the first page on. However I thought I read a tale about female emancipation and empowerment in  early 20th century. In that respect the novel was a total disappointment for me. The main character who started out so promisingly with her visionary views regarding female education and profession, empowerment of women and Afro Americans reveals herself to be a sham. She's not for equality because she's really persuaded of it or because she freely chooses independency and solitude over dependent Edwardian marital life-it's all the mere outcome of a string of unlikely events in her sad life. <br />Laura is in fact far more dependent, (ab)used by others and obsessed with the mere outward appearance than the married women whose allegedly shallow and narrow existence and dependent lot she pities and thrives to better . Pity them for what? She should rather pity herself for she pathetically clings to the past, can't let go and is thus a thousand times more bound than the women whose lives she strives to better. How can she better other people's lives if her own life is in desperate need of repair? Herein lies the novel's irony. Laura's strength is only a façade to hide her fear from life that results in hapless passivity when it comes to her own concerns. Passive victims can have their literary merits because they often prove a certain point and are there for a certain purpose-mostly to reveal rotten social structures-like Anna Karenina for example. However I could not see quite the point in Laura's joyless and repressive existence. It proves nothing more to me than that moral cowardice isn't rewarded in the end. Was that the intention of the author? I somehow doubt it. Anyway the events in the book are too contrived and improbable to really prove a certain point. A more likely situation the heroine was put in would have enhanced the depth of the novel.<br />Furthermore as the novel progressed I got the idea that Laura is not a victim but a quite sordid accomplice in her short fall from grace-regarding how she sees a certain person whose picture she keeps like a shrine on her desk, regarding how she acts in and views a certain situation which she strangely enough never acknowledges it the way the reader does. Despite her cleverness, advanced age and determination in life she inconsistently with her former character shows less resistance than a mere child in the face of a situation which would have required nothing more than some backbone, clear reason and true personal integrity which a morally integer, independent, well educated Victorian woman not in the first bloom of her youth such as Laura should have had. Also the way she so indulgently and understandingly treats that certain person is so beyond normal and credible human behavior that I began to see Laura as co-conspirator rather than victim. She sells her soul, dignity and integrity to the devil when the only thing at stake was outward respectability. This is all the more confusing since her submission could have resulted in even greater disrespectability anyway (and very nearly did). Since she was so clever and educated she could have easily seen that. Yet the allegedly so smart und educated headmistress prefers to take the great risk (for what I asked myself constantly)and be corrupt in private for no higher purpose than to avoid a possible public scandal, not much better than the bigots surrounding her. Her motivation is not wickedness though but cowardice. Understandable it might be, but it hardly endeared that character to me. I would have liked wickedness better. It's a far more interesting quality in a heroine. <br />What makes it worse is that she uses that event as an excuse to keep herself from loving and living fully, she's desperately frightened of everything worthy in life and clings to all the wrong things instead. She does everything only half-heartedly-even her fall from grace is half-hearted. In this way she's indeed a victim obviously long before she is overcome by her past. She's obsessed with outward respectability (which enabled fate to put her in such a predicament in the first place) and keeping people at bay. The way she treats her allegedly beloved goddaughter made me doubt that she's able really to care for and love a person. Even Grace who should be the closest to her after the death of her best friend comes only second after her life as schoolmistress and the compulsive need to keep up appearances.  Instead of truly and lovingly care for her she only thrives to salvage her goddaughter's reputation. Unconditional love would have been preferrable IMO. When she deals with people she supposedly likes or loves she always does so with a splinter of ice in her heart-the way she and others appear in public is always foremost on her mind. That might make her a realistic, albeit deeply conventional woman of her time without gumption but it also makes her appear slightly despicable for a proper façade -however rotten things are inside- is obviously everything to her. Was that the author's true purpose? I have my doubts. I rather think she meant that character to be sympathetic and integer, a victim of circumstances . For me however it was hard to understand such a repressed, fatalistic and dispassionate character.<BR> <BR>The novel is very well written and researched, however some of the merely fictitious storylines involve real characters who are presented in a shady, unsavory light. Since this is not based on facts it's somewhat dubious to severely tarnish posthumously a reputation in the way the author does. Those historical figures might have successors who feel rightfully offended by that. <br />If the novel has any positive messages I didn't get them. It was a bleak read. But it has wonderful potential for endless discussion therefore I give it three stars.	2003-10-14
US	44136297	R3R5CPP3IAPSD5	0446611298	227179454	Seduced	Books	3	25	25	N	N	I love you, I hate you-romance which gets a bit tiresome	The story actually has  a very promising beginning: Headstrong beauty with plans to marry only for love meets dangerous rogue, rumoured to have shot his heir for a dukedom. They dislike each other passionately at first sight. Yet because of a compromising situation the duke is forced to marry Elizabeth. She refuses to bed him, though and of course the duke rises to the challenge and tries to seduce her. Quite conventional and somewhat hackneyed but I admit I love that plot! <br />Elizabeth make a compelling heroine with enough spine and flaws to make her interesting. Lucien is the classic bad boy, but not of the unredeemable sort. He's never abusive to Elizabeth or too manipulative.<br />However the couple (at least for my taste) needs much too long to get closer together and to develop sweeter feelings beyond mere sexual attraction and an initial, reluctant infatuation. After such a long time of patient waiting for some romantic and loving interaction (It's supposed to be a romance after all!) their first actual intimate encounter was quite disappointing for me, too loveless, violent and frantic to make up for the lack of romantic interaction. Instead of armorous talk the hero even curses the heroine in between (the most unrealistic deflowering scene I ever read-even considering that it takes place in a romance which are per se unrealistic in that respect!)<br />And even after that unromantic coupling there's not much sweet and romantic love to be found to make up for it and the end is somewhat rushed. <br />Only worth your time if you love bickering couples who are at cross purpose most of the time, with a tortured hero constantly distrusting his feelings, compulsively trying to avoid emotional and physical intimacy with the heroine most of the time .<br />It might be a good romance for people who love angsty romances  but after my high expectations at the beginning it was a letdown for me.	2003-10-06
US	44136297	R18LZ69XZV5493	0380761319	790779890	The Shadow and the Star	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Difficult to rate	The book is very poetic and beautifully written and way above your usual romance. The hero especially totally intrigued me, as did the exotic setting Hawaii(for a historical romance). The hero, Samuel is a refreshing change from the typical brooding, promiscuous alpha male. He has had a very traumatic childhood and has made his way back into the normal world with the help of a lovely lady who was his foster mum. She and the rest of her family were one of the most likeable side characters I ever encountered in a romance novel. The hero was to die for with his craving for sensuality and tenderness and his fears that keep him from really loving and living. He's a very multi-layered, flawed but utterly sympathetic character. For that alone I would give the book 8 stars. However, the heroine bothered me a lot. Yes, she's meant to be likeable, so sweet and very naïve,  but she is decent to the point of self-destruction and would rather drown herself or go under before doing something unselfish or appearing unladylike. It's almost painfully comic when she sees herself as wickedly French. She's the most clueless heroine I ever saw in a romance novel, especially if you consider that she worked among working class girls (seamstresses) at the beginning of the book. Leda is one of those insufferably ideal, angelic but utterly useless and strictly ornamental Victorian heroines. Cloyingly sweet. Painfully innocent. Incapable of acting for herself and completely lacking gumption. She never fights, neither for herself, nor for others. Fighting for what you want is not ladylike, you know. Besides Leda appears not to be very very bright. The hero and heroine have no conversation other than small talk about  furniture and shopping. Oh, and she reprimands him occasionally for his bad language...Luckily for her Samuel is not interested at all in her mind and soul. He thinks of her only in physical terms and revels in her child-like adoration and complete submission to him. He would not even know (and is not even interested to know) what this girl likes for breakfast-but probably she wouldn't know either. She's by no way heroine material. She's a realistic character, though and you could probably have plastered London's streets with clueless and insipid girls like her. She's totally interchangeable. The only real heroine in the book is Samuel's foster mum, Lady Tess. The couple has some chemistry in bed, though you can't really tell, given the heroine's utter passiveness. However, despite the  insufferable \\"heroine\\" the book is so compelling that you are unable to put it down. If you like a very good,  intriguing, non formulaic and well-written story with a somewhat flawed love-story than this is the novel for you!even know (and is not even interested to know) what this girl likes for breakfast-but probably she wouldn't know either. She's by no way heroine material. She's a realistic character, though and you could probably have plastered London's streets with clueless and insipid girls like her. She's totally interchangeable. The only real heroine in the book is Samuel's foster mum, Lady Tess. The couple has some chemistry in bed, though you can't really tell, given the heroine's utter passiveness. However, despite the  insufferable \\"heroine\\" the book is so compelling that you are unable to put it down. If you like a very good,  intriguing, non formulaic and well-written story with a somewhat flawed love-story than this is the novel for you!	2003-05-06
US	44136297	RQX2B8NVCEZMK	0553209019	895587659	Trade Wind	Books	2	13	25	N	N	Not up to M.M. Kaye's usual standard	Actually the novel started out very well, with a bossy, determined, but utterly naive, gently-bred American heroine who has set her mind onto rescuing the world. Hero is not a cardboard romance heroine though, her development from an ignorant and ambitious young girl to a thoughtful, responsible woman is credible and moving. Her intentions are always the best, though the outcome is sometimes disastrous. The historical background and exotic flair of Zanzibar does the rest. Why only two stars then? Because the so-called \\"love-story\\" which was plain horrible spoiled it all for me . Rory, Hero's love interest is a slave trader who consorts with fifteen years old slave girls and who rapes women when he wants to have them, willing or not willing, he simply doesn't care. After that he sends them home to face the shame alone. What a \\"hero\\". A more loathsome and disgusting character who is not actually meant to be a scoundrel I have seldom encountered in a novel. Rory makes a good villain, though. However do we like to see a good, feisty heroine fall in love with worthless scum like him? I don't.	2003-04-07
US	44136297	R3T66T9UP4U70J	0440217067	848489009	Enslaved	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Sexy time-travel story	Enslaved is a romance in the good old tradition of seventies and eighties bodice rippers  l Kathleen E. Woodiwiss: Flawlessly beautiful virginal teenage heroine, desired by every man with blood in his veins meets incredibly dark, tall and handsome, middle-aged and somewhat brutish hero desired by every living, breathing woman. I actually enjoyed it a lot for it is so wonderfully full of every traditional clich. But the novel takes itself not too seriously and that's what makes it such great fun. Credibility? Henley doesn't even begin to bother with that. Not a sheltered young and nave debutante but a contemporary saucy high school queen whose youthful hormones have run wild romps around Georgian society and later in ancient Roman Empire. Henley put her a corset on, made her a virgin and that's all Diana has got in common with a real girl of that era. Even the coming of age is that of modern times: 18. Let's forget that the coming of age had been 21 for eternity before it changed in the late 20th century. Besides Henley's Georgian heroines are miraculously able to master their own fortune with 18. A Georgian heroine would not have been able to control her own finances before her 25th birthday if ever at all. Furthermore she also changed the ancient beau ideal in the contemporary one. Diana is rail thin as a super model and her waist can be spanned by only one hand of her lover Marcus. Her wrist is a third of that of Marcus wrist. But nevertheless he is instantly attracted to that undernourished slip of a girl. Henley's Romans all of a sudden abandon their own beau ideal of broad-hipped, well rounded beauties with big butts for the modern ideal of scrawny nymphs. Henley just doesn't care at all about historical facts which I found very amusing. She also doesn't bother about political correctness. Marcus is a Schwarzenegger-like muscled and incredibly hairy bully whose virility is not always appealing. He actually slaps the heroine because she dares to protest against a roman orgy with prostitutes. The only reason why he doesn't beat the rebellious heroine to pulp is not that he's a nice, sophisticated guy who appreciates a woman with an own will and some backbone but because he is afraid to mar Diana's \\"delicately boned face\\" and her oh so refined beauty. And a refined beauty Diana must be for the authoress refers to it constantly. Yet it annoyed me that Henley felt obliged to weakly point out Diana's intelligence and wit when it is in fact only Diana's 21th. century Barbie-doll beauty and her virginity combined with limitless sensuality that totally enslaves poor lust driven Marcus Magnus. Allegedly he also loves to talk to her-yet we actually never see them talking together. Now, why doesn't that surprise me? Marcus is hilariously political incorrect, entirely testosterone-driven and utterly masculine which he constantly proves to the heroine on the battle field and in bed. He's seething with sexuality and that is what enslaves Diana. The sex is incredibly hot and steamy. Enslaved is erotica disguised as romance and I thoroughly enjoyed it. However if you look out for a story where the heroes are attracted to each other because of their personalities combined with a minimum of historical detail this is definitely not the book for you.	2003-02-03
US	44136297	R9E9GCUEXR58F	0380810719	80244455	The Abduction of Julia	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Average romance novel with questionable [morals]	This is another variation of the old theme \\"Virtuous virgin reforms debauched rogue\\"...The book description on the back page didn't give away that...Karen Hawkins does not write badly and the story is developed nicely...The heroine Julia Frant is an impoverished American reformer with a penchant for charity. She has made the resolution to change the dissolute viscount Alexander after they got married under very peculiar circumstances. Alex had to marry Julia to get into his inheritance. She has taken him because she has secretly been infatuated with the beautiful and dashing womanizer who has only taken notice of her as the plain and righteous \\"Frant dragon\\" so far. And of course she wants the money to fund her charity projects. But her virtue, her selflessness and her hidden sensual beauty very soon capture Alex' hardened heart. The quickness with which he is passionately attracted to her is quite unbelievable. But of course he fights those unwanted feelings...villains in this piece are as we expect them. The bad women are of course no virgins but sexually experienced and dissolute. The book has a simple formula. Virgins who keep themselves intact till they get married are good, the others who follow their natural impulses are either bad and depraved or mentally sick. Only the virtuous woman are depicted as sympathetic, whereas the men can be nice and good despite adultery and promiscuity. Men, however debauched can be reformed by the right (and of course chaste) woman any time whereas dissolute women are doomed from the start...If you are a fan of Barbara Cartland novels which are very similar to this one this might be a treat for you.	2002-09-20
US	44136297	R2YQPLR23U7R1L	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	One of Kleypas'  best	I was biased because of the many negative reviews here and only bought it because of the plot line that intrigued me. I was not disappointed. I beg to differ with those who said that there was no love story but only sex. Just the opposite. It was clearly a love story and a very passionate at that. I liked that Sophia was no virgin when she embarks on an affair with Sir Ross and that he thought it to be no issue at all. The only thing that disturbed him about it was that Sophia obviously wasnt treated well by her ex-lover. I was smitten with the hero who had all the qualities I love in a man: Personal integrity, protectiveness, loyalty, tolerance, a liberal, open mind and a great capacity of love, passion and faithfulness. Especially the latter is rarely to be found in a romance novel hero. Most of them have a distressing tendency to be hopelessly promiscuous and are only able to fall in love with a pure virgin which I always found to be the peak of double standards. I can never believe that such men can stay faithful to one woman for the rest of their lives after  their past dissoluteness. Its highly unlikely in any case. But Sir Ross is known as the monk of Bow Street who resigns to con-sort with prostitutes after the death of his beloved wife five years ago and has stayed (almost) celi-bate because of that. How remarkable and far more attractive to me than those eternal rogues who had a lot of shallow and sordid, loveless affairs before they meet the heroine. Sophia is a true match for Cannon for she possesses the same qualities as the hero. I also liked that Sir Ross was no tortured hero. I have always trouble with those dark, brooding and enigmatic men who populate the world of romance novels in abundance. It is true, though that Lisa Kleypas latest book is more erotic than the average romance novel and a little more graphic. I couldnt find fault in that at all. She did not describe anything kinky or extreme. I highly enjoyed those parts for theypossessed a tenderness that is very rare. Often steamy erotic scenes become so incredulous and exaggerated that I fear for the health and well-being of the heroine. This was not the case here. If you like sensual romances with two loveable heroes, this is a treat for you.	2002-09-16
US	44136297	R1PF4Y7LAUCWFL	0380811065	920055797	Lady Sophia's Lover (Bow Street, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sensual romance	Lady Sophia's lover<br />I was biased because of the many negative reviews here and only bought it because of the plot line that intrigued me. I was not disappointed. I beg to differ with those who said that there was no love story but only sex. Just the opposite. It was clearly a love story and a very passionate at that. I liked that Sophia was no virgin when she embarks on an affair with Sir Ross and that he thought it to be no issue at all. The only thing that disturbed him about it was that Sophia obviously wasn't treated well by her ex-lover. I was smitten with the hero who had all the qualities I love in a man: Personal integrity, protectiveness, loyalty, tolerance, a liberal, open mind and a great capacity of love, passion and faithfulness. Especially the latter is rarely to be found in a romance novel hero. Most of them have a distressing tendency to be hopelessly promiscuous and are only able to fall in love with a pure virgin which I always found to be the peak of double standards. I can never believe that such men can stay faithful to one woman for the rest of their lives after  their past dissoluteness. It's highly unlikely in any case. But Sir Ross is known as the \\"monk of Bow Street\\" who resigns to consort with prostitutes after the death of his beloved wife five years ago and has stayed (almost) celibate because of that. How remarkable and far more attractive to me than those eternal rogues who had a lot of shallow and sordid, loveless affairs before they meet the heroine. Sophia is a true match for Cannon for she possesses the same qualities as the hero. I also liked that Sir Ross was no tortured hero. I have always trouble with those dark, brooding and enigmatic men who populate the world of romance novels in abundance. It is true, though that Lisa Kleypas latest book is more erotic than the average romance novel and a little more graphic. I couldn't find fault in that at all. She did not describe anything kinky or extreme. I highly enjoyed those parts for they possessed a tenderness that is very rare. Often steamy erotic scenes become so incredulous and exaggerated that I fear for the health and well-being of the heroine. This was not the case here. If you like sensual romances with two loveable heroes, this is a treat for you. I cannot wait for  Lisa's next book which I'm sure will be about the fascinating side character Nick Gentry. IMO her book gets better with the years which is also very seldom.	2002-09-05
US	44136297	R3RJDLL1NTRKCN	0446365386	716836572	Gone with the Wind	Books	3	9	17	N	N	More a psychological study than a romance	First of all: I adored the movie. I fell in love with Gable and with Leigh at the same time. Everyone could see that they were made for each other. I mainly expected a romantic love story when I started to read the novel. Yet it was nowhere to be found though a lot of reviewers seem to have seen what I obviously could not see.<BR>The first shock was that Scarlett is apparently only sixteen when she first meets Rhett, aged thirty-three, an already middle-aged, sophisticated man who chases after an incredibly shallow and vain teenager with much more gumption than wit. Scarlett is so emotionally immature and ignorant that it borders on blatant stupidity. I usually love it when the heroes indulge in verbal duels but those in this book I could not enjoy for Scarlett always looks foolish in them. To make it worse she is as cold as a fish, extremely childish and calculating. The authoress referred to her charm, intelligence and allure more than once but I couldn't see any of it except her beauty of course and that she was hard to get. She could be Becky Sharp's little sister but at least Thackeray's lady possessed intellect, a good judgment for people and a great sense of humor. To be fair I have to say that the heroine is resilient and smart when it comes to business. She also isn't afraid of hard work though exactly those only likeable traits make her suspicious to the good people of Atlanta. Yet Rhett was hardly a Harlequin hero either. Unlike his movie character he is bitingly sarcastic and acidly derisive instead of charming, amusing and witty. I found him considerably more sinister than Gable. He is violent, unreliable and really ruthless in a menacing way. With very good reason men usually don't like him. The way he is portrayed I couldn't like him either. I had no clue if Rhett loved Scarlett or not and if he did, why? Her reactions remained equally enigmatic in the novel. The book was surely a fascinating read for a lot of reasons but it made me unhappy in an unpleasant way. The characters often treat each other in such a hateful and cruel way that it was painful to watch. Whatever kind of love those two felt for each other, tenderness and true concern for the other seemed to have been no part in it. For fans of true romance I cannot recommend this book.	2002-08-17
US	44136297	R3HSNQY15DSZRR	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not Julia's best	I enjoyed reading this romance novel. Yet I think this one, though still above the average (after all it's a Julia Quinn), is much weaker than her other Bridgerton stories. Penelope and Colin whom we all know from her other books about the Bridgertons are both thoroughly likeable, the plot is suspenseful but there's something crucial lacking. Penelope is 28 and Colin 33 when the novel starts and they have known each other for 12 years. While Penelope fell in love with Colin at the very first sight he has never felt any spark of attraction for her so far, he has seen Penelope only as everybody else sees her: A nice, but infinitely plain, self-conscious old maid who is unpopular and lacks in social graces. His most outstanding feeling for her has unfortunately been pity until this novel starts. Unlike in other books Penelope doesn't undergo a great change when she gets older, she's still what she always was, thoroughly likeable, bright and capable of great feeling but also shy, plain and much too obedient towards her horrible mother. She now wears the clothes she has chosen herself but only because her mother has given up on her and thinks her daughter to be unmarriageable. I would have liked it better if Penelope had chosen her own clothes because she stood up to her mother at last. She's a bit of a doormat. Her blind adoration of Colin was somewhat annoying, too. Why he all of a sudden (after the first couple of pages!) feels passionately attracted to her remains a mystery. OK, this is a romance novel and I usually don't ask much for probability. But the authoress should have developed such a tremendous change of heart in a 33 years old man(Colin is no teenager whose feeling is likely to change quickly)in a more plausible and transparent way. The wonderful thing about romance novel authors is that they somehow make the improbable seem possible. Yet unfortunately not here. Colin should have been aware of his attraction to Penelope much later in the book, whereas sheshould have had a serious love crisis when her youthful infatuation collides with the sober reality. After that her shattered feelings could have developed into something deeper, corresponding with Colin's growing attraction to her. This would have added depth and complexity to an altogether  nice, pleasant little story. I think the authoress could have been a bit more daring to her own and the readers benefit. Yet the beautiful and romantic end made up for the somewhat rushed love story.	2002-08-17
US	44136297	R1LDCX1QORLLFG	156723058X	150825861	These Old Shades	Books	3	19	26	N	N	Not her best, but still above average	This was the first Heyer I did not like whole-heartedly. The great age gap between hero and heroine bothered me a lot(he's over forty, she's only nineteen) though this might be historical correct (yet they are a lot of old books which deal with the unhappiness that results from exactly such mismatches). Perhaps I would have like it better if Leonie hadn't been so childish. I couldn't find anything fascinating in her. The whole relationship was annoyingly father/daughter like, there was no romance at all. I had found it more consistent if Alistair had adopted Leonie who worshiped him like  a teenager worships her pop star idol. Julian Alastair was a little darker and more jaded than her usual more light-hearted heroes but I didn't mind that. However this book is vastly different in tone and style than her later books. I missed the light hearted banters and amusing situations which I came to love so in Heyer's books.	2002-08-13
US	44136297	R3QL8N7DHW10YE	0380786451	974979200	Sleeping Beauty	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Not the boring old formula	I was absolutely hooked on this novel. It's definitely a keeper. The tired old formula- beautiful, innocent, unsophisticated somewhat nave virginal heroine falls in love with jaded rogue who doesn't believe in love and has legions of ex-lovers is reversed in a way. Sir James, 29, explorer and scientist has just returned from an adventurous trip to Africa when he runs into Coco, 37, ex-courtesan and mother of an adult son. For him it's apparently love at first sight He is the son of a coachman and far from being rich or sophisticated. He's youthful, enthusiastic, romantic and honorable. His integrity which is rarely found in a romance novel attracts Coco who is a bit world-weary and disillusioned. She mocks romantic notions and nevertheless secretly hopes they exist. Her vulnerability and genuine charm make her sympathetic, she's, though a born seductress, far from being a lethal femme fatale. She is the one who resists the temptation of an affair with James for his own sake. He needs a flawless reputation to make his way into the world and her notoriety will be only a burden to him. But James doesn't give up. He's the first to acknowledge his feelings and takes great risks to be with his beloved. Neither hero is depicted as flawless. Coco's past really becomes a burden for the two and her legions of titled and rich lovers who made her very wealthy were first shocking for me for this is usually not what you find in a romance novel. But I admired James loyalty all the more. Every man can love a woman who's young, innocent and full of virtue. But it takes a man with a heart as big as James' to love a woman like Coco unconditionally. Truly romantic.	2002-08-12
US	44136297	R3NF1OSM51ZIKQ	0671040545	973620502	My False Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	2	16	27	N	N	Same worn out romance novel plot	\\"My false heart\\" is a collection of romance novels clichs: Firstly the extremely tall, dark and incredibly handsome world-weary rogue who has indulged in debauchery and who had been bitterly hurt in the past. Secondly the incredibly small, beautiful and delicate virginal heroine with an artistic talent who has a heart of gold. The hero  is cynical and jaded and the heroine is sweet-tempered and cares deeply for her family and others. She is an extremely gifted artist and apparently works a lot, but still she is the absolute perfect substitute mum for a parcel of brats. I have never heart about a really gifted artist who wasn't somehow self-centred and extremely involved with his or her work (not leaving much space for others). Extremely creative people simply have to put their work first or otherwise they couldn't be so productive. But she is a heroine in a romance novel and therefore she has to be terribly flawless (including not putting herself before others). To make her even more perfect she has never known desire or love or lust or at least sinful dreams before she meets the hero-a true role model for purity who makes  everyone with a less than saintly disposition feel ashamed. Yet she turns out to be a sex goddess (another clich) after the hero has awakened her slumbering passion (which has indeed slumbered for an amazingly long time!). Alas! The hero thinks he cannot love and has nothing to give (oh so tormented) and the heroine is stuck with duty and family obligations (oh so selfless) and so on and so on...I desperately looked out for something original and new to the rather worn-out concept but there was nothing.  It was really a torture to read the first 300 pages and I almost gave up. Yet the next 150 pages were a bit better. Elliot suffered so much and even cried (at least something that is not often seen in romance novels)which was somehow touching. But I cannot help wishing for a heroine like Scarlett O'Hara (a bit more mature and sophisticated perhaps) who is selfish, greedy and flighty and who will be redeemed by a truly likeable and sexually monogamous family-man (Having had only one or two women in his life).  I think I have to wait for that forever.	2001-11-26
US	44136297	RVN9U0SZZKTHN	038077352X	382195301	Dreaming of You	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A dream of a romance novel	This is my third  Lisa Kleypas book and it's the best I have read so far. I bought the book because of the many reviewers who  were mad about the hero Derek Craven. They are right. He really is a wonderful hero! \\"Handsome, tough and tenacious Cockney, he rose from poverty to become lord of London's most exclusive gambling house-a struggle that has left Derek Craven fabulously wealthy, but hardened and suspicious\\" praises him the back of the book cover.  Unlike so many other tormented and world-weary rogues in a romance novel Derek really has a substantial reason  for being the way he is. And it needs a warm-hearted, sensitive  and spirited woman like Sarah to bring out the best him. Derek feels not worthy for Sarah not because she is beautiful and highborn (the paramours he usually has are all blue-blooded and real stunners) which she isn't, but because she is the only real lady he has ever met. A lady who possesses all the qualities we look out for in a friend and a lover. But Sarah is no saint like Melanie in Gone with the wind, she is also a sensual woman with a liking for adventure. When she meets  Derek for the first time she is doing research work for a book, and he is in serious trouble. She helps him and saves his life,  but he is not very grateful for it in the beginning. He is not at all willing to let Sarah have a look at his gambling house, and doesn't appreciate that his employees enthusiastically show Sarah around. Yet he is not unaffected by her. Slowly he falls in love with Sarah but of course does not admit it, not even to himself. He even tries to marry Sarah off to another man two times which is of course bound to fail. The road to happiness for them is long and winded. The end is the most touching one I have  read in a romance novel without being too cheesy. I especially liked the epilogue. This really happens seldom but I can thoroughly recommend this book for everyone who  likes romance novels.	2001-11-09
US	44136297	R3DZO6U8MT8PVO	055357213X	155390976	Brazen	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Unconventional romance	This was surely  an unconventional romance novel. The hero Kit Braddock was younger than the heroine Angela de Grae who was as sexually knowledgeable as her lover. Besides she was married and had two children. And the era was different, too. Mostly romance novels take place in the Regency  period or earlier. The story here starts  in 1896. I loved the historical background information you get including the various contraception methods possible at the time and the divorce laws and practises. For anyone who is interested in the Victorian era this is a treat, for Johnson gives an accurate picture of food, manners, behaviour, arranged marriages and the Victorian double standard (which resembles the double standard  of other romance novel authors who display the Victorian moral codex uncritically in their stories). The story itself was interesting, too, and the heroes likeable although I was annoyed by the hero's unjustified jealousy  and his preference to be caught in the act (he had quite an exhibitionistic streak) and the heroine's fondness of sex-toys (I can understand single women or neglected wives who use  things like that, but here it seemed totally unnecessary-who wants to play with sex-toys when one can play with Kit Braddock...). I also didn't like that Kit had a harem. It was highly unbelievable and made the hero look very shallow and debauched in the beginning. I couldn't understand why Angela was attracted to such a surfeited rogue at first sight, for she wasn't a silly schoolgirl who would fall for looks only. Yet his character developed a lot (which was highly unbelievable, considering his past and the extremely short time he knew Angela, but who cares!). Maybe this was a coincidence here, but Johnson uses one typical romance novel clich and that is that Kit towers at least one head over all the other men while Angela is as small and delicate as a china doll, looking up even to moderately tall men. I have somehow the impression that all romance heroinesare as small as dwarfs and delicate as dolls, reaching not even to the shoulder of the hulking hero who's as tall as a skyscraper. Lisa Kleypas has a liking for that and various other authors, too. Everything is always so perfect in the world of romance novels, so I find it disturbing to imagine such a couple which in real life would look ridiculously like father and child, not to mention the problems which are connected with such a difference in height (and in weight, too). Only Mary Jo Putney has a talent to pair off  the ideal couples, and you never know what they will look like.	2001-10-31
US	44136297	R2IM4RZAT4X2F1	0380811987	373698911	Rules of Engagement (Governess Brides, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delicious and funny romance	This is my second Christina Dodd novel and I liked it much more than \\"A scandalous evening\\" where I couldn't like the characters. Here the heroes are much more likeable.<BR>Devon, Lord Kerrich is adorable and very cute. His vanity is so overwhelming that it was only funny. He displays it in such a ridiculous way that you can't be really angry with him. He is like a nasty child, not to be taken seriously. Consequently he is thoroughly fooled by just everyone, including his cunning grandfather who treats  the conceited Lord  as if he was still in his nappies. The destitute governess Pamela who had been until then the soul of chastity and primness is forced to work for Lord Kerrich in disguise because he does not want a young and beautiful employee for fear that she will storm naked in his bedchamber within a week (!!!). He tries to prove to the queen that he has become a respectable citizen (which he was all the time, he is in fact a very nice and romantic man, vanity aside) by adopting a boy from an orphanage. Pamela shall choose the boy and educate him, yet Kerrich doesn't want to really adopt a child. After he is in favour of the queen again, he plans to send the boy back to the orphanage But with the arrival of Pamela everything doesn't go exactly as he planned. First of all Pamela doesn't bring a boy from the orphanage. And although the governess seems to be plain and old the notorious womaniser (at least that is the way Devon sees himself) feels (much to his dismay) greatly attracted to her. But he would not be Lord Kerrich if he admitted that . Instead of it  he accuses the bewildered Pamela to pursue him (while it is exactly the other way round!). The characters are hilarious and the dialogues are witty and entertaining. I especially loved Beth, the \\"boy\\" from the orphanage. She is such a great character and wraps the top-lofty Lord Kerrich around her finger in not time.  If you like romances that make you laugh, this is a good one.   And the sex is hot, too,although not quite believable for Pamela's character is much too stalwart and conventional for that. First she is the governess from hell and then she acts like a brazen harlot. Where did that come from?  How was she able to deny that side of her character for 28 years? But who wants realism in a romance novel?	2001-10-30
US	44136297	R3HAWYTRO67NB9	0553299565	895034310	Pure Sin	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Sizzling hot	Pure Sin was my first Johnson book and I was pleasantly surprised. I thought her to be in the same league than Schone and writing mainly about sex, but this wasn't the case. There was surprisingly a romantic love story in there. Although the book started quite steamy with a hot encounter between the heroes in an open carriage (shortly after the \\"How do you do\\" introduction)the merely lust-based relationship soon developed into something more substantial. I liked Flora, the heroine. She was a lot different from the typical romance novel virginal spinster or sexually frustrated widow type. She was the exact counterpart of the usual Regency  and Victorian rogue type: Single, rich, titled, very independent, urbane, sophisticated, free-loving and proud of her sexual magnetism , skilled in the art of seduction. I found it very amusing when Adam Serre, Comte de Chastellux, the sexy half-bred hero who is in every way her true match  asks himself jealously what sort of experience Lady Flora has made and how many lovers she had had, and if she did that sort of thing with another man before. Usually these are the questions the anxious virgin in a typical romance novel asks herself about the roguish hero. What I also liked  about the heroine was that she was the true beau ideal of the Victorian era: Voluptuous and curvaceous and that men went mad about her exactly because of that. And also the side information Johnson gives about time, place and habits seem to be historically correct. The footnotes contained interesting historical information about e.g. marriage laws in France and Montana.	2001-10-30
US	44136297	R2ZB7FQW93IIH7	0380790912	627948354	That Scandalous Evening: The Governess Brides (Governess Brides Series)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Captivating story, troublesome heroes	The story is well-developed and heart-rending, yet the heroes (including side-characters)troubled me. Jane is so passive and victim-like in the beginning, not truly  fighting to be the artist she claims to be. In her disastrous  first season she makes a sculpture of  her beloved Muse Lord Ransom Blackburn and covers with a tiny fig leaf  what she cannot know. After her secret and her unrequited devotion to Lord Blackburn is discovered,  scandal follows closely. The high and mighty Lord Blackburn who is now the laughingstock of the ton because of the practically non-existent male appendage  of his statue seethes with rage and revenges himself on poor Jane when she comes unchaperoned to his house to explain and set things right. He tries to (nearly successfully) seduce her, but is interrupted by his sister and her companions. He refuses to marry Jane afterwards who is as a result ostracized  from society and forced to live in virtual drudgery at her abominable brother-in-law's house for the next eleven years. She is quite fatalistic and doesn't do anything to alter her situation. She isn't a heroine, but a plain and dutiful spinster who would never even dream of revenging herself on the society (embodied in the anti-hero Lord Blackburn). A touch of a character like Rhett Butler would have done her good. I just don't like to read about people who always play by the rules, especially not when they have all the reason in the world to not play by the rules. Yet the heroes here are more  realistic then those in an average romance novel. Jane's uncourageous acceptance of her plight and Lord Blackburn's utterly silly male pride (this ludicrous event still itches him after 11 years !), it absolutely made cruel sense. What other reviewers found funny I found heartrending: When she returns to society as the chaperone of her niece the inexperienced and ivory-towered  Jane still doesn't know why everyone laughed at her statue and why Lord Blackburn is still so furious. Nobody ofher so-called friends ever told her, although she asked about it many times. Even Violet an old friend of her doesn't care to tell the now 28 years old Jane the truth, when she again inquires about it . Although this is realistic I found it gut-wrenching to imagine how spinsters were artificially kept silly back then and how people laughed behind their backs about their naivet. The laughter virtually stuck in my throat. And Lord Blackburn: I simply hated him for his ignorance of the real facts of life. War has changed him, but he still prefers to live in the artificial and shallow world of the ton. Until the end he does not realize (and also not his interfering sister who got on my nerves) what he has done to Jane with so little reason. It was all about his private parts! He casually ruined another person's life because of that! And the worst and most unfair was that he knew Jane couldn't knew about her \\"crime\\". He simply punished her cruelly for the naivet the society he represents inflicts on women like her. There was much more realism in this story than I like to have in a romance novel. Only in the end the \\"heroes\\" both showed that they had truly matured and gained substance which added a bit of romance to an otherwise quite sad story.	2001-10-21
US	44136297	R12STU68PB6VAB	0440235510	746311637	Whirlwind Wedding	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Sixth sense meets Julia Quinn	This is a light read in the style of Julia Quinn's novels yet it has also a supernatural touch. Elizabeth, the heroine is clairvoyant. The duke who falls in love with her at first sight is a very emotional hero. He truly loves and adores Elizabeth from the start although he doesn't identify his feelings as ardent love in the beginning. He simply calls it the &quot;Elizabeth-feeling&quot;. This was a change to all those dark and brooding heroes who try to avoid love like the plague. His love for Elizabeth was so great that he was willing to give up everything for it.	2001-10-19
US	44136297	RGP49ZBYNTE5M	0451203801	242679781	In Praise of Younger Men (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unusual plots	Three storys are set in Scotland and in the regency era, one is set in the restoration time. I liked all storys, yet the last one with the wealthy widow who rescued the suicidal Viscount was the best in my opinion, and had more depth than the usual light regency read. Both characters were extremly believable. Maria was a sexual experienced and worldly-wise widow who found her true match in the world-weary viscount who was far too complex and broken for the usual virginical and naive regency heroine. I wished there were more novels of that kind. The other storys were sweet, sexy, entertaining and original, but without the depth of the last one.	2001-10-19
US	44136297	R20YHSIE7E0PSR	0743418832	221586511	A Proper Affair (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A delicious Victorian romance	This is a delicious romance about two people who have made contrary experiences. Cassandra has followed the rules which has made her totally unhappy whereas Bryce has defied them, only to be utterly unhappy as well. After they have married for convience, both find out that there is a middle way! What I especially liked about the book was that it was not all about sex. They truly developped a relationship outside the marriage bed. Besides both were the most credible heroes in a romance novel I have met so far. It's so realistic when Bryce after a passionate night with Cassandra can't be the sultry lover the next morning because of his really bad quarrel with his niece. In another romance novel he would have cast all that aside to make wild love to Cassie. <BR>And I also loved the way each chapter starts with a rule of Lady Cassandra's etiquette book which will be thoroughly broken in this chapter. There's also a second love story in the novel with Bryce's niece involved. I often laughed out loud while I read the book for it was really funny!	2001-10-17
US	44136297	RWBHV6IY1F7WB	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	1	316	401	N	N	An almost brilliant  study of an abusive relationship	Judith McNaught has created a story of an abusive relationship that could have been taken from a psychology textbook (minus the sometimes romanticism).<BR>Whitney , an attractive teenager feels like an ugly duckling although she simply is not fully developed, and her aunt who has come to England to take Whitney to Paris sees her possibilities at once. Brought up by a cold and unfeeling father who had wanted a son, Whitney was never able to fulfil his expectations. She therefore developed a deep minority complex. Consequently she falls in love with Paul who has never showed any interest in her and only sees her deficits -<BR>exactly like her father. That sets up the pattern of her future relationships. Whitney unconsciously thinks herself unworthy to be loved, yet like every human being yearns to be loved. When she comes to Paris, blossoming in to a sophisticated and witty young lady, she meets Nicolas DuVille who would be the love of her life in a real romance. He has all the attributes of a regency hero. He is handsome, aristocratic, rich, urbane and sophisticated. Furthermore  he is warm-hearted and caring. When Whitney has her debut, he sees that she gets a good start, and provides her with dancers by asking his friends for a favour. He deeply falls in love with Whitney, but never presses his love on her. He patiently waits for years, and offers her friendship instead of the love he would like to give her. But Whitney is unable to respond to true love which comes without abuse. Finally she finds her true match  (although not her true love) in Clayton, Duke of Westmoreland. Just like her he thinks himself unworthy of love (although the book never gives a reason for that). Unable to approach Whitney openly for fear of being rejected by her ( a fear that never bothered the far more self-confident and mature Nicolas)he makes his first move at a masquerade (!) where he doesn't have to show his face or reveal his identity  to her. The first encounter is a fiasco. The insecure duke therefore prefers to gain Whitney in an underhanded scheme buying her like a horse from her father. He approaches Whitney again, still hiding behind an emotional mask, not giving away his identity, and not revealing the business-like way he acquired her. The way he makes advances to her is typical. Emotionally to insecure to show his feelings for her, he prefers to sexually harass her. But this is exactly the sort of treatment Whitney is able to respond to. She fights her feelings in the beginning, but she fights an already lost battle. In one of her early encounters with the duke, he beats her up after a quarrel (in an earlier and far more consequent version of the book) and makes amorous advances to her after that.. Her destiny is now sealed. This is the ongoing tune of their relationship: The carrot or the stick. The abusive and dominating behaviour of the duke slowly destroys the spunk and feistiness of Whitney which signified her in the beginning. The hurting culminates when the duke who is mad with jealousy hauls away Whitney from a party to brutally rape her, then stops at last, but only to emotionally blackmail her to submitting to  violent and painful sex which he uses as a means to punish her (which is even worse then ordinary rape). He shows all the traces of a borderline personality. Othello must have been one of his ancestors. But it doesn't need a cunning  Iago to put Clayton into a cruel fit of rage. The grossest lie delivered by an archenemy of Whitney (something Clayton was fully aware of) will do nicely. After that he eases his bad conscience by sending a cheque and breaking of the engagement, unable to really face his behaviour. That's the coward's way out, but nobody seems to notice that, least of all the duke himself. After an arranged meeting Whitney doesn't believe the duke's declaration of love, and he doesn't show any patience with her plight (not accepting it as a part of his richly deserved comeuppance), but treats her with cold indifference instead. He doesn't need much time to come to terms with himself and detracts himself by pursuing another woman, only a few weeks after that fateful night. When Whitney learns about that, she practically throws herself at his feet. This is one of the saddest scenes in the book because it shows the full impact of the damage that his been done to Whitney in her childhood. Again having refused the faithful and loving Nicolas (he hasn't devoted himself to another woman in the meantime!), she loves the duke even more dearly for what he has done to her. But his is not the end of Whitney's self-inflicted torment. After they have married, they don't live happily ever after. The whole hurting and abuse starts all over again after Whitney has got pregnant.  Due to a relatively harmless incident the duke concludes at once that Whitney has betrayed him shortly after he had brutally deprived her of her virginity (!). He makes plans to cruelly revenge himself on her by letting her love her child for one year and then take away the child from her. This sadism left me speechless. After a while he sees the errors of his ways, but is unable to reflect his real problem which remains still unsolved. He comes back to Whitney who awaits him with open arms. This is the end of this depressingly real sadomasochistic story  which holds all the fascination of a bloody train accident. And this book is considered to be a romantic classic. A lot of women seem to be stuck in similar abusive patterns which I find quite alarming. As a dark tale of subjugation and emotional and physical abuse I would give it a five-stars review. As a romantic love story I can only give but one star.	2001-10-16
US	44136297	R1QXTEN5QDE2TE	0451401859	61510005	Dearly Beloved (Onyx)	Books	1	74	91	N	N	Boring and totally unrealistic	I'm an avid MJP reader and couldn't believe it when I started to read this book. One of the most outstanding things about MJP is that she is able to create tormented yet sympathetic and believable male characters who you cannot help but like from the start. Even if the hero doesn't believe or trust in love anymore he is always gentle and caring with the woman he gets involved with. But Gervase is a real turn-off right from the beginning. In the first chapter we see him drunken to oblivion and forced by a mad vicar to marry a 15-years-old girl whom he has unintentionally compromised. Gervase thinks he has been trapped by both-the mad vicar and the girl and brutally rapes her (MJP doesn't spare us the details) merely for vengeance. He is too much of a coward to strike back against the father, who would be the most responsible part in a conspiracy, he prefers to vent out his anger at a little girl. Honestly, can  a man sink lower than that? After his fit of rage he disposes Diana like  a piece of garbage and condemns her to a life in a tiny village at the end of the world, very much like an imprisonment, determined to never see her again. Here is the first contradiction: Gervase thinks he must do the \\"honorable thing\\" and marry the girl, yet after the ceremony  he acts like the lowest of villains. Such a character would not have married in the first place, at least not after his life wasn't threatened anymore, which was the case here at some point of the book.     MJP try to make us believe that Gervase has been haunted by the memories of that night ever since which simply isn't true. He feels uncomfortable when thinking about it, but that's all. Like Diana points out in the end, he has never done any action that would prove his regrets which is why he obviously never made inquiries about Diana's welfare in all those years.     As a result of the rape the girl becomes pregnant and nearly dies in childbirth because she's obviously physically too underdeveloped to give birth to a baby (which makes Gervase's rape suspiciously look like child-abuse). Yet she has absolutely no problems in accepting and loving her child right from the start. She even thinks her rapist can't be bad because her child is so lovely. Oh yes, of course and pigs fly. Rape victims who become pregnant don't react that way, especially not if the victim is a mere child. If Diana slowly had come to love her child, though I might have bought that. But MJP is not very subtle or authentic-neither in plot nor in characterization.    To make it even more unrealistic the now grown-up Diana decides to change her quiet rural life-style and go to  London to become a courtesan. While it is understandable that a young woman wants to replace her sad memories and make new and pleasant ones it is absolute nonsense that she will choose her rapist to make that memories. And Gervase is not at all the haunted hero who looks out for redemption. This is their first encounter : \\"The two of  them might have been alone in Eden and Diana was aware of nothing but the dark man and her own fiercely beating heart. That austerely handsome face was familiar to her as her own nightmares, and in a flash of fear and awe and tremulous anticipation....She knew beyond the shadow of doubt that this was the man she had come to London to find.\\"    This made me nearly retch. If you tackle a hot issue like rape or domestic violence you have to be very, very careful . MJP has handled that issue with such lightness as if such a crime wasn't a crime at all and doesn't affect the victims in any way. Diana seems not to have suffered at all. What makes it worse that the book is not even entertaining. The courtship of Gervase and Diana and Gervase's  spy actions are boring and the villain in the piece is so cruel and bad that it is almost laughable. He is simply put in the story to make Gervase look a little better (in another novel of MJP he would be the villain of the piece and what an icky villain he would be!).  Gervase's misogyny and constant mistrust of women in general got on my nerves and his dark, dark secret is simply disgusting.  Skip this book and try one of MJP other stories. This novel is highly unsavory.	2001-10-09
US	44136297	R1GLHELRCXNGDQ	1575666987	237226624	Gabriel's Woman	Books	3	20	27	N	N	You will like this if you liked &quot;Last Tango in Paris&quot;	The story is clearly a sequel to \\"The lover\\". You should read it first to fully understand \\"Gabriel's woman\\". If you consider \\"The lover\\" too gothic and sinister for your taste, leave this out. The atmosphere of the book reminded of the atmosphere of some of the novels of Stephen King. Death, mystery and destruction practically lurks behind every corner. The story is a very interesting, suspenseful one. It fills in the gaps  that \\"The lover\\" left. You will also see what has become of Michael and Anne, this alone is worth the read. And you finally understand why Gabriel cannot forgive himself for what has been done to him.<BR>The story is about Gabriel, Michael' friend from \\"The lover\\" as you might have guessed. It starts with the reopening of the house of Gabriel, half a year after the story of Michael and Anne ended. A woman appears on the scene who wants to auction off her virginity. Gabriel at once suspects her to be an accomplice to the second man (him again!), yet nevertheless he purchases her. He soon discovers that Victoria knows nothing and is only meant as a decoy for him. Both of them desires to be touched and crave for physical intimacy, but are unable to accept their wishes. Victoria is the more daring one of them and eventually overcomes her and Gabriel's inhibitions. She is deeply affected by and drawn to Gabriel's extreme physical beauty. He looks like an angel, so he must be one like in a fairy-tale. She therefore wants to save him and stops at nothing to do so. In one of the saddest and most troublesome sex scene I have read so far in Schone's novels she offers Gabriel her \\"other orifice\\" to experience what he has experienced. 24 hours or so after she has lost her virginity she has that sort of sex with Gabriel. The experience is a very painful one and is realistically described. But despite of or because of the physical pain that is inflicted on her she has a climax. The whole scene is very cold and clinical and made me shudder. I personally don'tcare if heterosexuals unnecessarily ruin their sphincters but I certainly don't expect things like that in a Victorian romance novel. But this is not enough: Victoria has now developed a taste for exotic sex acts. She dreams of bondage sex, having sex with an artificial phallus and about other sex that is so weird that I cannot describe it here. Well, that was not what Victorians dreamt about. Even a notorious sex-crazed Don Juan like the Victorian Walter (\\"My secret life\\") didn't do all of the things mentioned in Schone's book (the idea never crossed his mind). And he really was a wild and wicked one. If you want an accurate picture of what kind of things free-loving Victorians drove crazy  read Charles Deveraux' \\"Venus in India\\" or the pre-Victorian  \\"Fanny Hill\\" by John Cleland. The sex acts described there are surprisingly innocent. Schone should do her homework. She is right that Victorians were quite sensual and very much interested in sex. But they didn't need kinky or exotic acts to get aroused. They weren't influenced by and surfeited of the medias. Lucky times for love! And I do really get annoyed by Schone's theory that true ecstasy is only achieved by complete submission of the woman and the combination of lust and pain (nota bene: Not for the man! He can have fun without having to suffer and submit). Where do she get those ideas? Perhaps she got a little bit inspired by the Marquis de Sade? Let him rest in peace, please. In her previous books she dealt with that in a more subtle and erotic way (like incredibly tight built woman meets man who is built like a stallion), here it is much to obvious. The only beautiful and painfree sex act was described in the end and I really loved it although I didn't care much for the couple for I couldn't see much love and tenderness between Victoria and Gabriel. They freed themselves from their inhibitions and explored the boundaries of sexual pleasure and that was that. If Schone had made Victoria a streetwalker who was saved by Gabriel and who loved him for a long time, the whole thing would have appeared differently. But she had to be a well-bred virgin who knew Gabriel only for a couple of days, the equivalent of Anne and Michael in \\"The lover\\". For the two couples I see only one way to further spice up their sex lives ( for they have already tried most of the things possible within days). Exchanging of partners! Gabriel with Anne, Victoria with Michael, Michael with Gabriel, Anne with Victoria...at least that would be funny and not so depressing. The only true love story was between Gabriel and Michael. I would have liked them to become lovers in the end for they were a dream couple. There were real and substantial love between them and I found it far more touching to imagine a dark-haired angel teaching a fair-haired angel to read and write than imagining Gabriel and Victoria having kinky sex together. This was the most loving and caring act in both stories. Schone doesn't seem to appreciate homosexuality, yet she appreciates homosexual acts between heterosexuals. Chacun  son got.  She breaks taboos of the genre but unfortunately the wrong ones. She still is a promising author, therefore I give three stars instead of two. I hope she will regain the wonderful erotic power of  her earlier works like \\"The lady's tutor\\" and \\"Awaken my love\\".	2001-09-28
US	44136297	R2I643L6ZMFJLL	1575667967	244919481	The Lady's Tutor	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Hot stuff	The story is about a highly frustrated Victorian upper class lady who has been sexually and emotionally neglected by her husband for more than a decade. When Elizabeth Petrie suspects that her husband  has a lover she is determined to win him back. For that purpose she blackmails Ramiel, Lord Safyre, the ... son of a an Arab sheik and an English Countess to teach her the erotic arts, but under the condition that he won't touch her...which makes Ramiel even more determined to lure her into his bed ....<BR>I thoroughly enjoyed the \\"Lady's tutor\\". It was highly entertaining and incredibly sexy. Ramiel is my favourite hero of all novels of Robin Schone which she has written so far. Yet he is also the most unrealistic one, just to good to be true. The sex scenes are so hot, you either need a cold shower or a good lover within reach...or you do the mattress exercise mentioned in the book (Ramiel's problem solution if no lover is within reach). It is a much lighter read than \\"The lover\\" or \\"Gabriel's woman\\". It is also much more romantic. It has some dark sub plot but the relationship between Ramiel and Elizabeth is just sweet. There are no kinky sex scenes in here although I have my doubts that one act they perform together is anatomically possible with a ten-inch long \\"metorious member\\" . The only thing I really didn't like was the character of Elizabeth. She had sense of humour which I did like but she was so terribly nave. How could she not see what a total jerk her husband was? How could she have stayed faithful to such a man for such a long time? And why didn't she see that he had a lover right from the start? It took her sixteen years to realize that her marriage was a sham and that her husband was unfaithful to her from the beginning. And her total lack of self-confidence which she has in common with all the other Schone heroines infuriated me also. You need not be a model to let not other people treat you like a door-mat. When her husbands humiliates her to no end because of her desperate effort to seduce him she doesn't get angry with him but only with herself and -how unfair!-also with Ramiel. He is madly in love with her but she thinks he has only taught her to humiliate her and laugh about her. How blind and self-loathing can a person actually be? I could have slapped her silly for that! Schone's heroines have a tendency to turn their aggressiveness against themselves instead of turning it  against the persons who would deserve it. They are so easily intimidated which I find very annoying yet on the other hand they have no inhibitions at all. I could not believe it when shy and subdued Elizabeth finally asks Ramiel's mother how to sexually please her son! And of course it was totally unrealistic that a submissive person like Elizabeth would find the courage to go to a notorious womaniser like Lord Safyre to solve her problem. A Victorian lady like her would have seek sexual advice by asking a prostitute to get first-hand information without touching. But if you are not disturbed by lack of realism this is a treat for you as it was for me.	2001-09-28
US	44136297	RY42X0OA5EQKR	1575669072	798558310	Awaken, My Love (Brava Historical Romance)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very erotic, but  the story could be  a bit better	Elaine, a 39 years old computer analyst has been married for 17 years to passionless and frigid Matthew who somehow managed it to never have French kissed his wife (!) and to make things worse avoids to have sex with her (when it comes to it he claims to have a headache!). Although Elaine has a very passionate nature she has remained faithful to Matthew which must have been a superhuman effort on her side. Schone explains this with the fact that Elaine is short and plump. O.K. we have to swallow that although I find it quite far-fetched that short and plump women  cannot have extramarital affairs. One of the biggest lies in Holly wood is that only beautiful people have sex. Schone seems to have seen to much American movies and soap operas with rail-thin actors in them. The story actually starts when sexually frustrated Elaine awakes in the year 1882 and in the body of Morrigan, the 21  years old, beautiful but slightly crippled wife of Lord Charles Alcott, who has waited one year to bed his wife because of her extreme coldness. He is just as frustrated as Elaine because he thought he has found a woman of rare passion in Morrigan and now feels thoroughly deceived. How he managed it not to see the true nature of his wife during his courtship and engagement  to her is never explained. You get the impression that he one day saw her dancing entranced in the forest and the very next day he was married to her.  We also have to swallow this. When he sees Morrigan/Elaine he finds his wife changed for the better and renews his erotic pursuit of her. Charles is the ideal lover, handsome, passionate, experienced and romantic (he believes in life-long love and passion). He gives Morrigan/Elaine an erotic pillow book to enthral  her mind and uses Tantric techniques to seduce her. But Morrigan/Elaine resists at first because she doesn't want to be unfaithful to her husband, Matthew the refrigerator. Instead of ravishing Charles (what an opportunity!)she prefers to play the part ofthe Victorian virgin. Schone could have made so  much more out of the story. Why has Elaine to be more Victorian than a Victorian woman ? A 39 years old woman does not react in such an uncool way when a  man happens to see her looking at erotic pictures in a pillow book. She would grin and make some fun instead of reacting like an immature school-girl. And that she  does not talk most of the time for fear one might notice her different accent greatly annoyed me, especially when Morrigan's horrible family tries to walk right over her. She is much to submissive for my taste. I would have liked Charles to be confronted with a thoroughly modern woman who teaches him a lesson or two in and outside the marital bed. Charles should have met a personality like that from Carrie from  \\"Sex and the City\\" or a character like my all-time-favourite heroine Ally McBeal. I nevertheless liked the story very much. Charles is a great hero, a really sexy Victorian macho with a romantic side and the erotic tension and the sex scenes are sizzling hot. It is also romantic, especially in the end.  And I give Schone four stars alone for her daring beginning of the story. I'm really fed up with the 25 years old Regency heroine who doesn't know desire or her \\"magic button\\" before the hero appears on the scene. But be warned: The real Morrigan has a rather dark secret, not for the faint-hearted.	2001-09-28
US	44136297	R2ZC947JGBU0MZ	0380776162	388209748	Lord of Scoundrels	Books	3	19	33	N	N	Not bad but I expected more	The story is about the reforming of  a notorious rake named Lord Dain who is a devoted whoremonger and debauchee and appears not to have a single decent bone in his body. He meets Jessica, a stunningly beautiful spinster woman in an antique shop in Paris. Sparks fly, but after all the bad experiences he has made with mankind (especially with women) he cannot believe Jessica finds him attractive. When the ton finds them in a very compromising situation he refuses to marry her saying the infamous words \\"Shoot me!\\" Well, sometimes people get what they want...<BR>The story is hilarious sometimes and also entertaining in the second half of the book. I especially liked the part where Jessica makes Lord Dain accept his ignored by-blow son Dominique. This alone is worth reading the story. Yet I felt disturbed by the total lack of realism and the much too perfect heroine. First of all: A girl like Jessica, extremely beautiful, very sensual, daring and admired by almost everyone wouldn't have stayed unmarried or a virgin till her 27th birthday and then feel an overwhelming lust for the first time for a  man like Lord Dain. She is knowledgeable about and interested in sex and not at all afraid of it but we shall believe she never before was erotically attracted to someone. Most of us already feel atttracted to the other gender in our teens even if we are not a  sex-goddess like Jessica. Lord Dain seems to be the only handsome and sexy man in two countries. This is too much, really. Lord Dain on the other side who always has felt erotically attracted to big-boned and plump whores (the only sympathetic trait he shows in the beginning of the story)who he changes so frequently like other people change their underwear is now fiercely attracted to petite and delicate-boned  super-model-slim virginal Jessica. If a man prefers a certain kind of looks in a woman he most likely sticks to it or doesn't change his preferences so drastically. Furthermore we shall really believe he will beable to stay true to one woman after having used a thousand of them? Shall we really believe he has not caught a serious venal disease while bedding one whore after another (sometimes even two at a time) without protecting himself which he obviously didn't ? Why did the author not made Jessica a sexually experienced widow and  Lord Dain a man who avoids females due to his bad experiences with them? I'm really fed up with the extremely unbelievable clich  \\"debauched rogue is reformed by lovely virgin\\". And although I could understand Lord Dain's plight and felt sympathy  for him I couldn't feel much for Jessica. She was so damn perfect and flawless. Beautiful, intelligent, sensible, sensitive, extremely caring, patient,  virtuous, sensual, sexy, courageous....the list could be much longer. She always said and did the right thing. Therefore she remained somehow artificial and sterile. I couldn't like her for she seemed to be too much  a role-model. I liked Lord Dain much better for he was much  more human. If you want to read a better version of the reformation of a rake read Mary Joe Putney's \\"The rake\\". The characters are much more credible and in the end you believe that such a transformation could be possible which I here doubted very much because the glue between the two heroes is mainly sex and the fact that Jessica is the first decent woman who feels attracted to Lord Dain. I think his overwhelming sexuality caused his frequent demand  of whores not his bitterness and disappointment in life. This is why I couldn't believe the transformation. When Jessica isn't a erotic sensation anymore he would -in reality-follow his old path especially when she is worn out by pregnancies and not so sexy anymore.	2001-09-16
US	44136297	R21B2KK8YZEW5L	0451406869	561998138	The Rake	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A truly believable reformation of a rake	Usually I don't like \\"debauched rogue is reformed by lovely virgin\\"-stories but this one is different. Reginald Davenport is an alcoholic and has been one for decades in a time when nobody knew much about this kind of addiction. When sober, he is a truly likeable man with a lot of assets but when under the influence of alcohol he is at his worst, a true and unsympathetic rake. Yet even then he shows glimpses of his real personality. When he gets a last chance to change his life he is determined to alter his lifestyle and become a better person. Yet the road to this is long and winded...  When he meets Alys an attractive Amazon who runs- much to his surprise and delight- his estate sparks fly but they need a long time to find out that they need each other. Alys is not the usual heroine of a romance novel. She isn't the typical spinster of the ton who knows not much about men or life and has never been in love before. Besides she is already thirty and has worked for her living. I think the revelation of her grand past was a bit too much, I would have liked it better if she hadn't been a blue-blooded woman. But perhaps it was necessary for the twists and turns in the story. I liked the way Reggie reacted to the revelation of her past though.	2001-09-16
US	44136297	R1T5ES4KL7LIKM	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Sweet, sexy, romantic and a dream couple	The story is about a famous spinster novelist who is about to face her 30th. birthday. She hires a male prostitute to celebrate that special event with her...and to loose her virginity to him. Exactly to the time she awaits her blind date Jack Devlin arrives, a roguish, handsome, notorious and incredibly sexy publisher and fan who wants to have her exclusively writing for his company. He of course uses the misunderstanding to his own purpose and tries to seduce his admired author whom he desires the first instance he sees her. Sparks fly and it takes some time for the stubborn heroes to come together at last! I simply devoured this book. I didn't go to the telephone and I cancelled a meeting because I had to read this book in one sitting...I fell head over heels in love with Jack Devlin, the hottest hero I met so far in a romance novel-he is absolutely irresistible! I would give the author a 7 stars review if it were possible! One of the critics at amazon.com said that &quot;older frustrated woman meets younger lover&quot; is a worn-out plot...well, I must have missed something. Though an avid romance reader this plot is absolutely new to me. Perhaps this storyline is used in contemporary romance novels which I don't read. Only one thing I have to criticize: The fact that Amanda didn't feel attractive because she was short and plump. Well, exactly this was the beau ideal in the Victorian era. It was said that women were the short-legged sex and all famous courtesans of that time were fat according to our standards. Vanderbilt called his mistress Tennie Clafflin his ample beauty and it was meant as a compliment for her. Victorian men simply loved wide hips and big butts and round legs. If Kleypas wanted to have her heroine suffer from an inferiority complex she should have turned her into exactly our beau ideal which is tall and thin.	2001-09-01
US	44136297	R1P7419FVRZ3LF	1575665700	656376580	The Lover	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A mysterious erotic  tale	The plot is dark, gloomy and gothic and sometimes painfully erotic. It's definitely not a romance but a fascinating erotic obsession of two people who eventually become lovers...I wasn't appalled at all by Shone's realistic (finally someone who describes contraception methods in a sex scene)and graphic description of sex but some practises seemed to be too far-fetched for a Victorian spinster who had just recently lost her virginity. I know many experienced women of today (including myself) who wouldn't like to try one or two of the mentioned practises...and I think even a very passionate and love-starved woman as Ann would have her limits where she said: &quot;No, I don't want that!&quot; or wouldn't have liked it after having tried it-the latter would add to the realism. Most people do not like everything in bed. But even those kinky acts where described beautifully and tastefully. It was definetly an unsettling read but I nevertheless devoured it within one day, unable to lay it aside. As a erotic novel I would give it a five star review. Only one thing: I don't think a woman can be aroused by some chinese balls stuffed in her secret place under those horrible circumstances-nobody normal could be sexually aroused with pure mechanical means under the threat of death.	2001-09-01
US	44136297	R9W02RN0CHSKT	0821757938	8138331	Hidden Fires	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Nice romance but a bit shallow	I like Betina Krahns novel, but after having read several of them they become slightly shallow. O.K. theres a lot of humour in it and the sex scenes are really steamy and tender, too ( a mixture that very rare  in common romance novels) but I somehow miss a certain sort of development of the characters and in the love story Krahn tells. Of course Eden is very charming and incredible beautiful and Ramsay is incredibly handsome, too and they seem to feel (of course against their will) attracted to each other from the very start but somehow theres missing something. Theres hardly any dialogue between the heroes and when theres dialogue it is about sex. The hero begs for sex and the heroine refuses it at first and then the heroine begs for sex and the hero refuses it  and that is that! Wheres the good old romance where people are attracted because of their wit, their loyalty, their inner strength? Wheres the good old and far more realistic love story where after a growing attraction that took some while the hero touches the heroines hand and kisses it, the way men did approach women at that time? Its totally unbelievable that in todays history romance novels the heroine is sexually so aroused by her first French kiss that she is willing to give her virginity to the hero who she has just recently met. Well-bred maidens  passions had to be aroused in a far more subtle and romantic way. And I think its far more erotic when the passion between the lovers is built up slowly and convincingly and when its not only based on physical attraction.	2001-08-16
US	44136297	R2N0K1JIQEQZKE	0380899825	801007174	Hearts Aflame (Haardrad Family)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A true medieval romance	After having read Prisoner of my desire\\" I swore never to read a Joanna Lindsey romance novel again. I was truly appalled. But the customer reviews persuaded  me that I probably would like that one-and I did!  Usually I don't like medieval romances but that one was different. I liked sassy and daring Kristin who is a really strong heroine and also Royce who is a true match for her.  I could understand both point of views which is seldom the case when I read romance novels. It is so sweet to see how Royce and Kristen eventually  admit their love for each other. The only  thing I did not like was the spanking scene. It was unnecessary and didn't fit at that moment. It was as if  Lindsey only brought it in because she has a liking for such scenes. The bondage scene (only a mild one) seems to be one of Lindsey's favourites, too but at least it fitted into the storyline. Nevertheless I did enjoy the book thoroughly.	2001-08-12
US	44136297	R3T3E8OEJJWO47	0736626840	21713889	The Demon Lover	Books	1	27	33	N	N	Definetly a demonic rapist not a lover	The story is certainly very well written but the end is more than disappointing. The story is about Kate, a gifted artist who paints a picture of the powerful and charismatic machiavellian Baron Centreville. The baron soon discovers that not Kate's father, a famous miniaturist, who is about to loose his eyesight paints him, but Kate. Instead of being furious he is inspired by her and patronizes her further career. Kate is erotically attracted by him but repulsed by his machiavellian use of power. She falls in love with the man the Baron wants to marry of to a former mistress. Due to the fact that Kate severly interferes with his plans he intends to punish her and her fianceé for their \\"insubordination\\". He kidnapps Kate, drugs her and rapes her several times and makes it very clear that this is meant as a punishment. There is no indication that the baron fiercly desires Kate or that Kate enjoys the whole thing and it would be very unlikely under the given circumstances. The whole thing is about power and the use of power. His original plan to marry of the now besmirched Kate to his rebellious subject is thwarted by Kate who now refuses to marry this man. The plot is interesting so far and I expected some poetic justice because Kate, a very spirited and strong woman could be the ideal person to revenge herself on the baron but this is not the case. Instead of it she gets pregnant and gives birth to a son. Of course she secretly yearns for the baron and let no other man touch her for years. Then after a failed marriage of the baron he finds out about the son and comes to claim him. The rest of the story is ridiculous nonsense. I don't critizise the fact that Kate in the beginning feels attracted to so unsympathetic a character. It is believable for the baron is handsome and powerful and that is in fact attractive. I wouldn't have minded the baron seducing Kate as a means of punishment (like Valmont seduced the virtuous Madame de Tourville). It would be more than believable that after that Kate is not able to forget her demonic lover. But her demonic rapist? He was a cruel barbarian and not a highly seductive and sinister Valmont who was a skilled lover not a neanterthaler who tears his woman in his cave. The story is very well written but the content is [...]. Because of it's very dubious moral I can only give one star.	2001-07-29
US	44136297	R3I5962OMSON0C	0380756277	641921275	Prisoner of My Desire (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	1	9	17	N	N	Definetly a sugar-coated S &amp; M story	If you are a fan of Black lace novels this might be a treat for you. Some of the reviewers pointed out that it wasn't a S &amp; M story because there were no pain involved in the bondage scenes (the story is full of them). Well, how would you feel being strapped on a bed for the whole night in total darkness, without the possibility to move or to relieve yourself, not knowing what will happen to you? You would be scared to death knowing that you have been prisoned by the man who has every reason to hate you. And then when he comes with the intention to rape you, his heart full of hate and revenge, you wouldn't mind because he doesn't beat you before he punishes you in another far more hurting physical way (he actually need not beat you for you are still immovable). And that is not sick stuff? That do people understand as &quot;romance&quot;? I'm really at my wits end. The book didn't shock me but the reviews certainly do. 30 years of feminism and this is the result. We still have a long way to go.	2001-07-25
US	44136297	R3EXKDAKRXSCUB	0821760394	498676383	Passion's Treasure	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Story about a sex-crazed teenager-where's the romance?	I bought Betina Krahn's  \\"Passion's treasure\\" because I had read \\"The last bachelor\\", \\"The mermaid\\" and  \\"Sweet talking man\\" and expected the same mixture of humour, sensuality and romanticism, two sympathetic and credible heroes and of course, a gripping love story. I was totally disappointed . The story is about a simple and poor American country girl in the 1750's who is seen as a sort of genius in the small village Culpepper where she was born. She is highly educated due to a local priest and a squire. Since the first encounter with Sterling, an arrogant and selfish macho-macho English nobleman (one of the most unsympathetic and loathsome characters ever to roam around in a romance novel)she feels erotically attracted to him, although he only chases her for lust and revenge. The only humour I could find was the running gag that the girl named Treasure, who is supposed to be a \\"thinker\\" acts like a half-witted, sex-crazed teenager in the first half of the novel (I haven't read the second  part). Not only is she not able to identify the  late squire's son Sterling despite of his striking resemblance with his father, she is not even able to ask the simple question: \\"Who are you?\\" when they first meet. Instead of this she thinks she has apparitions because of moon-madness for she meets him in the middle of the night in his father's house. Her stupidity culminates in the scene where she throws herself  at Sterling, begging him to teach her the art of love. Apart from her bad taste and low self-esteem for the English \\"nobleman\\" is the only one in her entire life who treats her condescendingly and without respect (which obviously makes him sexually attractive to her), this act she so much desires degrades her to the sort of woman she so much despises, one of those \\"mindless\\" tavern girls (=prostitutes)in the eyes of society. Yet she is not able to draw this rather simple conclusion.  But perhaps all Betina Krahn wants to show us is that IQ's are highly overrated. For this alone I give two stars.	2001-07-23
