US	44135518	R2MX2ZLU4YR781	0515120898	903367224	The Pull of the Moon	Books	1	65	78	N	N	Get a life, Nan!	This is the story of a bored, rich housewife with too much time and money on her hands.  She feels unsatisfied with her life at fifty--like all of her best years have passed her by--and her solution is not to try a new career, do some volunteering, or see a therapist.  Instead she opts for the dramatic route and hops in her Mercedes for a solo cross-country road trip, writing increasingly insipid letters to her poor husband as she continues on her way.<br />Nan whines and complains about how her husband doesn't appreciate her, but we never see much about her to appreciate.  Apparently he is the breadwinner, and for that he is chastised because a) they have too much money and b) he is preoccupied and c) he never followed his original dream of becoming a scientist.  Yet someone has to earn the money to pay for the Mercedes, the road trip and the beach house that Nan insists they buy and decorate according to her exact specifications.  For someone who boldly accuses Martin of making too much money, Nan sure does have expensive and particular tastes.  It also takes a lot of chutzpah to accuse her husband of &quot;selling out&quot; when Nan never even reveals what, if any, dreams she ever had.  She certainly gives us no indication that she has realized any of them, either.<br />I am not against the idea of a middle-aged woman &quot;running away&quot; from her life.  I loved the novel &quot;Ladder of Years&quot; by Anne Tyler.  But in that novel, we are shown what the protagonist is running from.  In this one, the only indication we are given about why Nan runs away is that her husband is preoccupied and she feels old.  I'm sorry, but there are too many women out there worried about feeding their families, making house payments, balancing jobs and families, etc. to make my heart bleed for Nan.  And I never had any sense that she had ever put herself in Martin's (or anyone else's) shoes.<br />This protagonist came off as utterly spoiled and unsympathetic to me.  She appeared to be a woman who has never had to worry about real issues, and thus created this false drama to make herself feel important and to draw attention to herself.  Perhaps a better solution would have been for Nan to get a job and insist on seeing a counselor with Martin, rather than throwing temper tantrums at the beauty parlor or writing such gems to him as &quot;I think we both should have had affairs.&quot;	2004-07-07
US	44135518	R1NOGJ58NPKAIY	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sometimes the best stories are the simplest	This novel is not so much the story of a pregnant girl, two bachelor farmer brothers, and two teachers and their respective families.  Instead, the author seems to wish to convey two main ideas:  first, he wishes to paint a vivid portrait of life in rural Holt, Colorado.  Second, he seeks to illustrate that both evil and goodness are all around us--you will be touched by both, but if you're lucky, hopefully you will experience more of the latter.  In both of these goals, the author succeeds tremendously.<br />The other reviewers have summarized the plot, and I will not describe it again here.  I would argue that Victoria Roubideaux is at the center of the plot; through her, we experience all of the best and worst humanity has to offer.  Among the best are Maggie Jones, the McPheron brothers, the bus driver who drives her from Denver to Holt.  The worst include her mother, Dwayne, and the high school bully.  Because Holt is a small town, each of the character's lives intersect with one another.  The victim of life's unkindnesses has the opportunity to pass the unkindness on, or to start over again and be good to others.<br />This is the simplest of stories.  There are no earth-shattering plot twists and no real surprises.  But the writing is so beautiful, and the story so simple and true, that I was simply mesmerized.  This was a wonderful read from beginning to end.	2004-07-07
US	44135518	R3VBREZR6M5OZC	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful story and characters	This is the tale of small-town girl Carrie Bell, who has had the same friends and boyfriend since she was in high school.  At 23, this no longer seems like such a good thing, and she longs for a change of pace.  She is contemplating leaving her fiance, but tragedy strikes, and he becomes a quadrepalegic after a silly diving accident.  She must decide whether to do the right thing, and stay with him, or be true to herself, and leave.<br />This story revolved around this complicated question.  I have read several reviews where Carrie is torn to shreds for what readers have characterized as her coldness and selfishness.  To me, this quality is not descriptive of Carrie.  She makes some choices that hurt people, but I viewed her as the most troubled character in the novel.<br />Also, I disagree with reviewers who said the dialogue was poorly written.  As I read, I was thinking just the opposite:  the dialogue sounded so authentic that I could imagine talking with my friends that way.  I thought this novel was beautifully written all the way around, from dialogue to descriptions to the richly-developed characters of Carrie and her acquaintances.  I also loved the sewing metaphors.<br />This is a fast-paced but thought-provoking story that I simply couldn't put down.  I am eagerly awaiting the next novel from this author.	2004-06-29
US	44135518	R1UGI9WYNPM1HZ	0679772677	303723286	A Civil Action	Books	5	35	39	N	N	Justice?	This book is a depressing lesson in the ways that our judicial system don't work.  An adverserial system of justice, by its very nature, leads not to an inquiry into the truth but instead to a polarized system where each side is fighting for its own side and disinterested in the merits of its opposition.<br />While this book was, in many ways, a real downer, it was also a fascinating chronicle of litigation.  I was immediately drawn in my the families' tragedies, Schlichtmann's flawed but good-hearted optimism, and the interaction between the lawyers and the judge.  As Schlichtmann swirled deeper into debt, I found it impossible not to feel a growing sense of desparation along with him.  The ending is bitterly disappointing, but in many ways the families eventually got what they wanted with subsequent EPA actions and criminal prosecutions.<br />My husband and I are both attorneys.  Last year, he was involved in a case in which the outcome was simply criminal.  I felt I could relate in a deeper sense to the drama in A Civil Action after experiencing such a travesty of justice firsthand.  We have to work within the confines of the flawed legal system that exists now, but we must accept that it is far from perfect.  Judges and juries--as humans--get things wrong all the time.  This book, in gripping prose, demonstrates this basic fact of life in all too vivid of detail.	2004-06-10
US	44135518	R15T4C1RUMUXQX	037570910X	292207917	The Feast of Love: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely perfect in every way	This may be my favorite book that I have ever read.  It is absolute magic.  Plot is secondary.  This story, instead, is an exploration into different kinds of love.  It twists and meanders without a clear destination, much like love itself.  Along the way, we meet slightly otherworldly characters.  Most of all, we get to listen to Baxter write.  And he can WRITE!  Reading this novel is like reading the most beautiful poetry by Frost and Yeats put into prose form.  The words alone would be almost enough, but the words combined with the wonderful stories will simply take your breath away.<br />I found something to identify with in each and every one of the characters in this book.  Some characters I actually fell in love with--Chloe and Oscar, with their perfect, intense love; Bradley, with his immutable optimism and his desire to help his lover in every possible way; the Ginsburgs and their perpetual, unconditional love for their children; Bradley's dog, Bradley, who perfectly illustrates why people have pets (or why pets have people).<br />Some characters are certainly less magical, like Diana and the Bat.  But they do not qualify as villains.  They have a place in this novel, and it is not to be a mere foil to the types of love depicted by Chloe, Oscar, the Bradleys and the Ginsburgs.<br />I really cannot heap enough praise on this masterpiece.  I have plans to reread The Feast of Love forthwith.	2004-06-04
US	44135518	R3SN1T27WQU7OG	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Insight into a little-known chapter of herstory	As other reviews have noted, this book is historical fiction.  It takes the portion of Genesis dealing with Jacob and his wives, and later with the rape of Dinah, and rewrites them from the perspective of Jacob's only daughter, Dinah.  Through her eyes, we see the cameraderie and jealousies of Jacob's four wives, Leah, Rachel, Zilpah and Billah.  We get a fully developed sense of their personalities.  We are treated to a speculation of what life was like for women in pre-Christian times.  Finally, we learn about the life of Dinah, who is barely mentioned in the bible, but who in Diamant's novel leads a full, rich life.<br />This is a wonderfully imagined novel.  Diamant speaks with such an air of authority, and her characters are so richly created, that I had to keep reminding myself that this book is, indeed, a novel.  Women in the bible are rarely given a voice.  Unfortunately, this is true throughout so much of history.  Here, however, the women's experiences are in the forefront, and are just as compelling as the men's stories.  This is a beautiful tale of mothers and their children set during a time when such stories were never really told.  Very original and highly recommended.	2004-05-24
US	44135518	R1RYI9ZXCIAXN0	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Paradise lost	This is a beautiful but brutal story of sibling rivalry, parent-child relationships, and the inherent good and evil in each one of us.  The novel spans three generations of the Trask family, beginning with the amoral patriarch Cyrus, who invents himself as a heroic soldier but is actually a thieving failure in the army.  His two sons--Charles and Adam--recreate the story of Cain and Abel.  Charles is smart and bitter over his father's obvious preference for Adam.  Adam is naive and unimpressed by his father's affections.  Adam marries the beautiful but sociopathic prostitute Cathy, who sleeps with Charles on their wedding night and shoots Adam after bearing twins.  The twins--Cal and Aron--recreate the story of Charles and Adam in a pathetic and depressing historical retread.<br />The overall theme of this tale is that each person has good and evil within them, and must consciously choose the moral path.  Steinbeck rejects the idea that a person is inherently good or evil and has no control over his destiny.  Even the evil Cathy ultimately recognizes her immorality, and seems to regret having no love in her life.<br />I found the characters dealing with Cathy to be the most interesting.  Cathy and Lee were the most finely developed character in the novel for me. Though Cathy is primarily \\"evil\\" and Lee is primarily \\"good\\", both characters contained complexities and contradictions more finely tuned than those that were present in, for example, Adam Trask and Samuel Hamilton.<br />I can't help but compare this epic novel to Steinbeck's other opus, The Grapes of Wrath.  I enjoyed the Grapes of Wrath more, because the characters were more multi-dimensional and the story more fluid.  Here the characters seemed like symbols more than actual people--pawns in Steinbeck's obvious allegory.    Nevertheless, this novel is worth your time to read.  It contains beautiful prose and thought-provoking ideas.  This highly ambitious novel succeeds on many levels, and is a pleasure toread and ponder.	2004-05-07
US	44135518	R2M130CZI6VU0O	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	10	14	N	N	What liberal media?	Wake up, America!  Reclaim your country from Fox News.  In much more eloquent language, this is the message of Al Franken's hilarious yet disturbing book.  The right is lying to you, and you're falling for it. (Hence, the disturbing statistic that 34% of Americans believe that we have already found WMD in Iraq.)<br />Franken takes on everything in this book:  the crazies at Fox News and their associates (Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly, Sean Hannity, etc.); Bob Jones University; the distortions and outright lies told by both Bush and Cheney; the sick Conservative spin on Paul Wellstone's &quot;overly partisan&quot; memorial service.  Even Barbara Bush is not safe from his exposes.<br />I don't usually respond to other reviewer's comments, but I found one too good to let slide.  A reviewer wrote that Franken didn't back up his allegations--all that he could find bad to say about Ann Coulter is that what she calls &quot;endnotes&quot; are actually &quot;footnotes&quot;.  Yes, Franken does point this out.  But this reviewer must not have been reading the part where Ann Franken wrote that the New York Times was too elitist to run a story on the death of Dale Earnhardt until three days after his death, and then only in the back pages.  Did you miss the part where Franken included the front page of the New York Times from the day after the accident, and there was a story about the crash?  What about the part where she said she was &quot;friendly with&quot; Franken after meeting him only once for a few seconds?  How about where she wrote &quot;Even during the media's nightly flogging of Iran-Contra, Reagan's approval ratings fell only five percentage points&quot;, when they actually fell from 63 to 47%?<br />To people like this reviewer, the hope of instilling them with any insight as a result of reading this book is a lost cause.  They don't want to know the truth, and they have imitated the right's trick of distortion, ommission and lies.  To everyone who actually wants to know what is going on with your president and the press, this book is an eye-opener.  Al Franken for president!	2004-04-21
US	44135518	R1WDLOTX17OFFV	0786890444	726547973	The Sunday Wife	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Shallow characters, contrived situations	I was excited to read this book because a few people had recommended it to me.  I also saw it as a \\"light\\" read, which was perfect for me to read on vacation.  [...]<br />Basically, the problem with this novel is twofold: the characters are all walking stereotypes and the plot is so contrived that I could see what was going to happen from the very first chapter.  These characters are so one-dimensional that I felt embarassed for the author when I read it: you have the highly stereotypical gay couple; the fortune-reading gypsy woman; the minister who is such a sanctimonious creep that you can't imagine why anyone would marry him; the wild-child Augusta; and a host of other people who are not given multiple facets to their personalities.<br />The plot was just as bad; what the author saw as foreshadowing or subtle clues instead simply spelled out what was going to happen from almost page 1.  [...]  The dialogue is so unconvincing, it entrenches each character deeper into his or her stereotype rather than bringing any character to life.<br />I gave this book 2 stars because it kept me entertained in much the same way that a Lifetime movie would: you are oddly fascinated by its melodrama but appalled with yourself for indulging yourself in such an awful waste of time.  Please spare yourself this experience and watch something on Lifetime instead; it will only take you 2 hours and you can fold laundry or do your taxes while you watch it.	2004-04-14
US	44135518	R1KLYFPPH18ROI	0679767959	430418898	Heartburn	Books	3	17	21	N	N	Sorrel soup seasoned with heartache	This is the fact-based story of Rachel Samstat and Mark Feldman, two Washington hotshots whose marriage is rocked and ultimately destroyed by Mark's infidelity.  As Rachel is a cookbook author, the story is intermingled with various recipes related to different plot points (she gives the recipe for the key lime pie that she smashed into Mark's face after learning Mark bought a necklace for his mistress--but regrets it wasn't blueberry, which would have ruined his blazer.)<br />This story is light and forgettable.  While clever, it was only laugh-out-loud hilarious in two spots:  where Rachel describes her parents' relationship and her mother's deathbed behavior; and where Rachel describes the hamsters that plagued her first marriage.<BR> <BR>However, I enjoyed reading this tell-all tale.  While it wasn't memorable, it was an entertaining way to pass the time--much better than watching this old movie reair on Lifetime TV (Skip it--the book's better.)	2004-04-05
US	44135518	R2MEIBNWXHUE39	037570504X	22478117	Breath, Eyes, Memory (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Disappointing	Edwidge Danticat can write beautiful descriptive prose, and in some ways the idea for this novel was creative, but on the whole, it simply didn't work.<br />This is the tale of Sophie, who was conceived when her mother was raped by an unidentified man.  Until age 12 she is raised by her aunt, Tante Atie.  At 12, her mother sends for her and she moves to New York.  There, her mother administers weekly \\"tests\\" to ensure she is still virginal, which scars Sophie for life.  As a result of these tests, Sophie is afflicted by sexual dysfunction, bullemia, marital difficulties and a battery of other problems alluded to but not fully addressed.  She ultimately she mutilates her genitals to escape these tests--which causes a serious rift between herself and her mother.  Her mother continues to be haunted by the images of her rapist and suffers from many of the same problems as her daughter (her mother administered the same tests to her when she was a girl).  This tale tells of their reunion, their rift, and their second reunion in Haiti.<br />There are simply too many themes, many of which are only superficially addressed.  Additionally, the dialogue in some cases is appallingly poorly written.  This was all very disappointing, because the book began on a promising note with the vivid descriptions of Haiti.  However, it jumps around in time too much and deals with too many large issues.  The result is a disjointed, lackluster collection that would have perhaps been better as a series of separate short stories.	2004-03-31
US	44135518	R3374AW7223CTY	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Much more than a biology lesson	I wasn't initially excited to read this novel, which was billed to me as \\"about a hermaphrodite.\\"  Indeed it is, but it is also a multi-generational epic about love, loss, family, patriotism, politics, art, and much more that takes the reader from Greece to prohibition-era Detroit to the swanky Detroit suburb of Grosse Pointe in the 1970's.  And the writing is so beautiful that, in some ways, it wouldn't matter who the characters were or what they did.<br />But you do care, because the characters are painted so vividly.  We learn why Cal/Callie possesses both genders, or at least we believe that it is because her grandparents are actually brother and sister.  This part of the novel forms the unconventional but surprisingly beautiful love story.  It proceeds through the romance of her parents, and Callie's childhood as a little girl, unaware of her uniqueness.  The latter part of the novel is about Callie's realization that she is a hermaphrodite, and her ultimate decision to become Cal rather than Callie.<br />This novel is an absolute delight, from start to finish.  It has a human element that I found lacking in The Virgin Suicides, although I still enjoyed that novel.  This is a coming of age story with a twist, that rivals the great novels of the twentieth century.  Cal Stephenides is this generation's Holden Caufield.  Highly recommended.	2004-03-29
US	44135518	RUT7STHDXIB1B	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A treat for the reader and the writer	This is a little gem of a how-to book.  It's little, because Stephen King has taken seriously the commands of Strunk and White to &quot;omit needless words&quot;.  He also rails against the excessive use of adverbs (&quot;adverbs are not your friends&quot;), the temptation to &quot;dress up&quot; plain and more direct language (&quot;this is like dressing up your dog; the dog is embarassed and the person who engaged in this premeditated act of cuteness should be more embarassed&quot;--I'm paraphrasing), and writing untruthfully about subjects with which you are uneducated (&quot;if you're a plumber, write about plumbing; God knows why, but people love books about work&quot;).<br />Other than that, King offers few hard and fast rules.  The most important commands are to write often and to read often.  His book is funny, wise and above all inspiring.  It contains words of wisdom from an imaginative man who made his living doing something that he still absolutely revels in doing.  How many people can say that?<br />This book also contains two autobiographical sections and a reading list.  The first autobiographical section deals with his childhood and early adulthood as a young husband, father, English teacher, writer and pauper.  It is both funny and sad.  The second section deals with the accident that nearly killed him in 1999.  This part is less funny and more sad, but contains a fundamental truth:  his passion for writing, at least in part, saved him.<br />There is also a sweetness about the way King feels about his wife.  He clearly adores her and is still in love and lust with her after all these years.  She is his &quot;ideal reader&quot;, the person he writes all of his books with her opinion in mind.  She is smart, outspoken, and nearly idolized by King.  What woman wouldn't want a man to feel that way about her?  Tabitha King is a lucky woman.<br />If this book doesn't make you want to jump up and write (and read) something, then you're not a writer.  Even if you're not, you can still enjoy the wickedly wise tales of King's childhood and his astute, self-deprecating look at the world of bad versus good, and sometimes great, writing.f you're not, you can still enjoy the wickedly wise tales of King's childhood and his astute, self-deprecating look at the world of bad versus good, and sometimes great, writing.	2004-03-26
US	44135518	R2CBZJHDMSSIJ9	0312422156	298109609	Middlesex: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Extraordinary feat by this local author	I was initially interested in this book because I am from the Detroit/Grosse Pointe, Michigan area and I knew that large parts of the book were set there.  I wasn't moved to read this book based on my reading of \\"The Virgin Suicides\\", which I enjoyed a little but wasn't really moved by.  I also wasn't moved to read this book based on its alleged subject matter--a hermaphrodite.  I was afraid this book would be a painful story about self-discovery which ultimately leads to self-acceptance, which has been done, done and redone.<br />I was both wrong and right.  The book is about a hermaphrodite, but it is also an epic tale of how this particular hermaphrodite came to possess both sex organs.  The story takes you back to Greece, through the ill-fated romance of her grandparents.  It takes you through prohibition-era Detroit, and the romance of her parents.  It paints a vivid portrait of Detroit and its inhabitants throughout the twentieth century.<br />The book is also ultimately in some ways about coming to peace with one's uniquenesses, but the way it is done in this book is fresh and new.  Callie/Cal became so real to me that I truly identified with her plight.  Some of Eugenides's insights into adolescent cruelty and feelings of inadequecies made me cringe with recognition.  This was true not just in the portions of the novel dealing with Cal, but in the portions dealing with her parents and grandparents as well:  such feelings transcend decades and international borders.<br />This is a story I recommend not just for its wonderful glimpse of Detroit in the twentieth century--which is certainly there--but for its wonderfully crafted, meticulously detailed multi-generational tale.  I truly hated to put this book down and let Cal continue with his life without me.	2004-03-25
US	44135518	RK1G0TTDUA5BA	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	13	17	N	N	The underside of trickle-down economics	This book is a real eye-opener for people who have never had to worry about how they will feed their families, or whether they will buy food or prescription drugs in any given week.  As an attorney for unions, and a child who grew up very poor, I already had an idea of what the author was going to encounter during the course of her experiment.  But many other people don't, and this book is for them.<br />Many people don't realize how absolutely paltry salaries of &quot;unskilled&quot; laborers are.  They don't do the math to try to figure out how far a $7.00/hour wage will stretch toward covering bare-bones expenses for a family.  They don't factor in the rising cost of housing and health care.  And they don't consider the intangibles--like any person's limitations (including mental capabilities and physical disabilities) and family situations.<br />I am surprised at the scathing nature of some of the reviews of this book I found on amazon.com.  The reader who wrote the spotlight review entitled &quot;Have your quiche and eat it too&quot; was particularly harsh.  This reader's criticism seemed to be based on: 1) That the author made a lot of money off of this book; 2) That the author did not study any of her co-workers in depth to find out what happened to them in the long term; and 3) That the author was spoiled and snobbish, expressing her fondness for pesto-encrusted salmon and high quality wines.<br />I respectfully disagree with that reviewer and I find that the reader's criticisms lack merit.  To be fair, this book never touted itself as a long-term analysis of a family in crisis (due to low wages and high cost of living).  I'm sure there are books like that out there, and I am sure that such a book would be an eye-opening read as well.  This book was about trying--in three geographically distinct areas--to make it on a near minimum-wage salary.  It was about the reasons that this author was unable to succeed.  Arguably it was all the more effective because the author had money before embarking on this journey and therefore was unprepared for the difficulties that awaited her.  And I am not offended by the fact that the author is making money off this book.  At least she is spreading the word as to the tremendous obstancles impeding the progress of the &quot;working poor&quot; in our country.<br />I don't think that the author is a hero, and I wasn't shocked by what the author's experiences revealed.  But I think a lot of people who read this book will be.  This is a sympathetic and wryly humorous account of one woman's experience in the $7.00/hour workforce.  Highly recommended.	2004-03-09
US	44135518	R33V4Q1XORSD8V	0140187537	999720718	The Winter of Our Discontent (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Steinbeck does Hemingway	This novel was one of Steinbeck's last, and delves heavily into themes of disillusionment with one's country and one's lot in life.  While The Grapes of Wrath was arguably a more heartbreaking book, in that novel, at least the characters still cared and still maintained ideals.  In this book, the character of Ethan Allen Hawley has lost hope for the future and lapsed into a great abyss of depression and despair.  In this way, Steinbeck seemed much more Hemingway-esque than he had in his earlier, and in my opinion greater, works of fiction.<br />While I did not enjoy this book as much as earlier works like The Grapes of Wrath, there is still much to appreciate in this tale about an American patriarch who has lost his way.  Ethan lives in New Baytown, a fictional New England town, with his dissatisfied, materialistic wife, daughter and son.  Both children are writing an essay regarding why they love America, though only the son is able to finish it--and he does so by plagiarizing speeches by Henry Clay and Abraham Lincoln.  Ethan's family was once well-to-do but lost their fortune with speculative investments after WWII, relegating Ethan to working as a grocery clerk at the store he once owned.  His boss is an illegal Italian immigrant who encourages Ethan to be less generous with the customers.<br />New Baytown itself is a major character in the novel.  The entire town operates within a realm of corruption.  Yet things have operated that way so long that no one remembers it is corrupt anymore.  All of the major and minor characters are seriously flawed--Margie Young-Hunt, the town seductress and witch; Mr. Baker, the greedy banker;  Joey Morphy, the bank clerk who describes the perfect way to rob a bank.  Gradually Ethan realizes that the only way to be happy is to get money.  The only way to get money is to bend his own moral standards.  And once he bends his moral standards, he is more miserable than ever.<br />This short novel is delightfully written, with superb dialogue and clever references to religion and American history.  It is basically an indictment of America's materialistic lifestyle as it entered the 1960's.  I enjoyed it very much on that level, but did not feel it withstood comparison to Steinbeck's earlier, more emotional novels.  This story was more allegory than novel, which is fine--but which one should keep in mind while reading this little gem.dialogue and clever references to religion and American history.  It is basically an indictment of America's materialistic lifestyle as it entered the 1960's.  I enjoyed it very much on that level, but did not feel it withstood comparison to Steinbeck's earlier, more emotional novels.  This story was more allegory than novel, which is fine--but which one should keep in mind while reading this little gem.	2004-03-01
US	44135518	RZU4TP6D129LT	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Sweet but forgettable	I really can't think of anything bad to say about this novel.  The heroine is extremely likable, the descriptions of Botswana beautiful, and the tales of Mma Ramtowse's cases light-hearted and entertaining.  I enjoyed the stories of the wayward Indian daughter, the husband eaten by the crocodile, and the philandering twins.  <br />The only thing about this story was that I forgot it as soon as I finished it.  Nothing much there really stayed with me.  Even the &quot;big&quot; case involving the boy abducted by witch doctors didn't have much substance.  Sweet, yes, but not much meat.  Overall, I recommend this book to anyone looking for a pleasant escape--and that's not a bad thing.	2004-02-12
US	44135518	R1RJ4DI1SWS4ZQ	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A maid comes for free	This last sentence of Tracy Chevalier's novel sums up all the irony associated with being a poor woman in the 17th Century.  Until the end of this novel, Griet has absolutely no control over any part of her life.  Even at the end, her choice is not much of a choice; it is based on economic necessity.  This novel is an amazing portrait of the life of a maid in Delft during this time period.<br />Indeed, Griet's occupation as a maid is dictated for her.  Her parents simply tell her she will go to work as a maid; she has no voice in the matter.  Once at the Vermeer's household, she has no choice about the job responsibilities she will fulfill, whether she will pose for a painting, and from whom she will take orders.  Even her few small possessions are not her own.  In addition to this lack of control, Griet is subject to injustices at every turn, such as being accused of theft, fending off advances tactfully from wealthy patrons, and being disliked by every person in the house except her master.<br />Griet's master, Vermeer, is perhaps the most interesting character in this novel.  While not outwardly unkind to Griet, he inflicts the most damage upon her self-esteem and sense of self-worth.  He is portrayed as not an unkind man, but not a kind one either.  He is utterly self-absorbed, and only does things when they benefit him in some way.  Despite this, he is pitiable, because he is so clearly miserable with his life.  Even when he comes to Griet's aid, it is so that she can remain his assistant.<br />This was a fascinating historical fictional account of a little-known but tremendously gifted artist.  Beautifully and sensitively written, at the book's end you will feel you know the Papist's Corner and Vermeer's house therein--as well as it can be known, anyway.	2004-01-23
US	44135518	R33HI2FMQ4QPNP	014100018X	598461998	Chocolat	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Lead me to La Celeste Praline!	This book is simply magical.  Lovely and mysterious Vianne Rocher arrives in a tiny, close-minded French provincial town with her daughter, Anouk, and turns the town upside down.  Vianne and Anouk open the sweet shop La Celeste Praline during Lent and soon are the talk of the neighborhood.  However, the Rochers are most unwelcome by the town's priest, Pere Francis Reynaud, who views the sweet shop as a direct attack on the church and an irresistable temptation to his simple-minded congregation during the church's holiest season.  Perhaps Reynaud has a special reason to fear temptation?<br />Slowly, things in the town begin to change.  Josephine Muscat leaves her abusive spouse.  Guillaume comes out of his shell.  The &quot;river people&quot; find a home and a friend in Vianne, Josephine, and Armande Voizin, the town's oldest resident.  All these changes occur under the sensitive watch of Vianne.<br />I loved the beautiful descriptions of the town.  The townfolk were richly drawn and complex.  Even the villian, Reynaud, was given an opportunity to narrate and reveal the origins of his fears--making him a multi-dimensional character instead of simply the &quot;Black Man&quot;.  And I loved the idea of chocolate as a type of magical elixir (I've always known that it was!).<br />This is the second book I've read by Joanne Harris, the first being &quot;Five Quarters of the Orange&quot;.  Both were excellent, but &quot;Chocolat&quot; is softer, sweeter, while still tackling serious subjects in a generous and kind-hearted manner.  This is a beautiful tale of penance and redemption, of the foolishness of self-deprivation, and about chocolate as the root of all good.  Highly recommended.	2004-01-13
US	44135518	R1ABAALATW2Y76	0452269571	906896717	Bastard Out of Carolina	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Age-old tragedy	In many ways, Bone's experience with child abuse represents the prototypical case.  She is abused by an older male relative (here, her stepfather).  Although there are multiple children in the family, she is her abuser's only victim.  The abuser was abused himself as a child and suffers from self loathing.  The mother turns a blind eye to the abuse and also suffers from self-hatred.<br />Yet this book is so richly narrated and characterized that it is anything but typical or standard.  The description of the Carolina communities the Boatrights inhabit, the diner at which Anney works, the multiple shacks that the family lives in are so tightly drawn that the reader feels that she inhabits them.  The characters are complex and diverse, especially that of Bone and Anney.  The ending, while heartbreaking, is also probably realistic, and much better than one possible alternative:  Bone returns to Anney and Glen for more abuse.  That scenario is much more likely than yet another possible scenario:  Anney, Bone and Reese create their own home and Glen simply exits the picture.<br />Many of these reviews judge Anney harshly, and in many ways rightfully so.  However, I found her character to be both pathetic and sympathetic.  Here is a woman without education, skills, or money, who has grown up in a culture of tolerating men's bad behavior.  True, she should have removed her daughter from such a dreadful situation, but in many ways she lacked the resources to do so.  Her only asset was a tight-knit family that failed to teach her that life without Glen was a real possibility.<br />This novel is dreary, tragic, and will make your stomach turn.  Yet I found myself enjoying it just the same.  This is both an indictment of child abuse and a sympathetic portrayal of the lives of the poor and uneducated throughout America, especially women.	2004-01-06
US	44135518	R6N5E1ZPYG0OM	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	American Literature at its Finest	On the back cover of this novel there is a quote from the Washington Post.  It says that this novel &quot;is as close to greatness as an American novel is going to come these days&quot; or something equally absurd and pretentious.  I suppose whoever wrote that quote thinks that nothing great has come out of America since Faulkner died.  Such a view is utterly dimwitted and snobbish, and if I were Charles Frazier, I would want it removed from my book jacket.  This novel is American and it is greatness--the fact that it was written in the 1990s does not render the two qualities mutually exclusive.<br />That quote is the only thing I can criticize about Cold Mountain.  This book literally took my breath away.  It is a beautiful story of two prickly people separated by war and holding on to each other's memory to bring them through hell on Earth.  Ada is stranded on her father's farm after his death, without any skills concerning how to run such a place.  Inman has deserted the confederacy, and is coming home to Ada and Cold Mountain through the peril of the Carolinas in 1864.  Through the way, Inman meets people that personify the very best and the very worst that human nature has to offer.  Ada sees the same while never leaving the Mountain.<br />The characters of Ada and Inman are beautiful and rare.  Apart from them, however, the characters of Ruby, Veasey, Sara, the goat woman, and a host of others are unique and wonderful.  This book might be called a tragedy, but also contains many elements of the comic, supernatural, and historical.<br />My descriptions cannot do this book justice.  It must be read and savored, although I tore through the last 250 pages frantic to learn the ending.  I believe that I will read this novel again and again to savor all of its magic properly.  Yesterday I saw the film by the same name, which is quite different but also a beautiful work of art in its own right.  While intriguing and wonderful, however, the film does not approach the level of greatness created by Charles Frazier in this modern day masterpiece.	2004-01-05
US	44135518	RAGXFT79N6QQP	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	What is the American dream?	This novel has been characterized as the quintessential American novel, and even as &quot;THE&quot; American novel.  Whether or not I agree with that characterization, F. Scott Fitzgerald's short but dense tale is a masterpiece.  That said, there is not much I can add to the years and years of analysis and praise.  This book is simply stunning.<br />I will not rehash plot details here, but I will make a few comments.  I studied this book as an English major at college, and just reread it for fun 10 years later.  I remember reading it as a student, and learning about all the symbolism present.  If you look for it, you can find symbolism contained in every paragraph.  A few symbolic themes I remember studying were those of colors, the weather, religion and the Bible, and numbers.  I remember learning that different colors represented different traits.  White, for example, supposedly represents purity, while yellow represents artificiality.  Therefore, the name Daisy is itself a symbol:  a daisy is white on the outside and yellow in the center.  Accordingly, Daisy appears to be pure but inside is tarnished and artificial.<br />While it is fascinating to study all the symbolism in this novel, this time I read it purely for the story.  And the story is more than enough.  Strip away all of the symbolism, and this would still be a masterpiece.  This is the tale of a twisted perversion of the American dream--one of Gatsby's ambition to amass a fortune in order to win over Daisy.  Yet he will never win over Daisy, for she will never love one who has to earn his wealth.  It is the story of Gatsby's failure to win even one true friend, despite the fact that his house is always filled with people, and everyone &quot;knows&quot; him.  Even the narrator only arranges Gatsby's funeral out of a sense of obligation and pity.<br />This slim masterpiece is beautifully and concisely written, and heartbreaking without ever being sentimental.  This book has survived 75 years worth of critical analysis, and it still going strong.  In another 75 years, people will still be studying this grotesque manifestation of the American dream.tical analysis, and it still going strong.  In another 75 years, people will still be studying this grotesque manifestation of the American dream.	2003-12-15
US	44135518	R1NCG5C39YJVWT	0451184963	179012025	Insomnia	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not his best, but worth a look	I say this book is worth a look, but it's not as simple as that.  At almost 800 pages, this book kept me occupied for more than two weeks.  While it kept me interested, it took so long to read that I felt like I could have read three other good books in the same time period.  In my opinion, this book could have been trimmed to 400 pages and been no worse for the wear.<br />Despite these criticisms, the book was entertaining.  Ralph Roberts begins experiencing &quot;early waking&quot; insomnia after the death of his wife.  He later learns that his widowed friend Lois Chasse has the same problem.  They begin to detect auras and see &quot;long-timers&quot;, beings that exist on a different plane and live much longer lives than human &quot;short timers&quot;.  All of this spiritual enlightenment is set amid the backdrop of an abortion rights convention and the extreme reactions of Derry townsfolk on either side of the debate.<br />This novel explored interesting themes of fate--whether we should tamper with it, whether it really exists, whether we can change it, whether a force known as &quot;the random&quot; can interfere with it.  It also explores the theme of death--whether there is a preordained date certain for each human, whether we can change the date certain and whether we should try, and what happens next.  These themes were interesting and required the reader to do a little more heavy lifting than other King books I have read.  Which is probably a good thing, but I still question whether King needed 800 pages to accomplish this goal.	2003-12-08
US	44135518	R2JPZUGHJE7ZDT	0670894605	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Suspend your disbelief and enjoy the writing	Sue Monk Kidd has a wonderful command of the English language and her descriptions of South Carolina make me want to pack up and go there this instant.  I enjoyed the descriptions of the countryside, the bees and the quirky pink house and wailing wall.  I also appreciated the time in which this novel was set; it gave a nice feel for the Civil Rights Act and the moon landing, and all the excitement and unease that these events inspired in Americans.<br />But part of me wanted to just say &quot;Yeah, right&quot; and &quot;Come on&quot; while I read this book.  A white girl living with these four black women--the best-known entrepreneurs in the county, mind you--and no one notices or questions it?  If there was enough racial unrest that Rosaleen gets beaten up by the bigots on her way to register to vote--and I do not doubt that there was--how is no one going to find out or object to her living with these women?  This required a huge suspension of disbelief at the very beginning that was very difficult for me to get past.<br />My other primary objection to this tale is the lack of characterization.  Lily and August are both well-developed and complex, but that is the extent of it.  Rosaleen, May, T Ray and even June to an extent all seem more like caricatures than characters.  Black women aren't always &quot;colorful&quot; and all southern white men in 1964 were not hopeless bigots.<br />These are big objections, and the reason that I cannot give this book more than three stars.  However, if you are able to get past these problems, you may find yourself enjoying this book.  The story and symbolism is creative and compelling, and as I have already mentioned, Sue Monk Kidd is an artist with words.  If you can make it through the first 1/3 of the story, you will enjoy the rest of the ride.	2003-10-27
US	44135518	R2XKI379LRKQVR	0064409597	864257528	Love That Dog	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Perfect Book	This book is simply perfection.  It is about a wonderful dog, a wonderful teacher, a wonderful poet, and above all, a wonderful boy who is coping with a tragedy.  Be forewarned--this one is a tearjerker.<br />I loved the poems selected by the teacher to share with her class.  I was an English major in college, and I am familiar with all of the poems.  Yet I loved reading an elementary student's reaction to them.  It's true:  why does so much depend on the red wheelbarrow?  So much more depends on the blue car splattered with mud racing down the road with miles to go before he sleeps, in such a hurry.  At least to Sky, and to Jack.<br />My dog was hit and killed by a car last year.  I was reading this book out loud to my husband and had to stop in a few places.  Jack's description of the day that Sky got killed made my heart ache.  But the poetry helps Jack remember the good times he had with Sky, and ease the pain of Sky's death.  I wish I had had a teacher like Miss Stretchberry and the author of \\"Love that Boy\\" had come to my school.  This is a superb story about coping with tragedy, the memory of loved ones, and starting over.	2003-10-13
US	44135518	R1WPVT8977CXA3	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Not a single word wasted	The writing in this book is so tight.  There are no unnecessary descriptions, extra characters, or false-sounding dialogue.  The dialogue is truly Lehane's strong suit.  Sometimes I just stopped reading and thought, wow, this guy knows how people talk.  Most writers know in their heads how people talk, but as an amateur story writer, I know how difficult it is to make dialogue sound realistic on paper.  These characters ceased being just characters because they seemed so completely believable and real.  That was largely due to the excellent dialogue.  To those reviewers who said that there was too much profanity in this book, I have to ask: where do you live?  In Mr. Rogers' neighborhood?  That is how people talk, especially cops and people who live in working-class neighborhoods.  An absence of profanity would have been glaringly obvious and made all the characters seem unrealistic.<br />The facts of this novel have been summarized by other readers, and I will not repeat the summary here.  I would like to comment on the ending, without revealing anything.  I did not realize the identity of Katie's murderer until right before Lehane revealed it.  This was a stroke of genius, since as I have said, there is not a superfluous character in this novel.  The murderer is right there in front of you all along, and his or her identity makes perfect sense once it is revealed.  Lehane doesn't trick his audience, there are no scams or false clues; sometimes the most obvious culprit is right there in front of you.<br />I also found the epilogue to be disturbing and ambiguous.  Jimmy's character in the epilogue and at the end seems to be so different from what it has been throughout the rest of the book.  But when you look at some of the earlier observations about his character, you realize that Lehane played fair and that the ending is not a stretch.  Again, a masterpiece.<br />As many reviewers have noted, this novel is not neatly pigeonholed into the &quot;mystery&quot; category.  It is instead a full-bodied novel addressing many themes:  people's ability to change; destiny and fate; and class warfare.  There are no easy answers, but that is just one more way in which this novel is realistic:  in real life, there never are.  I can't wait to see this movie.ry.  It is instead a full-bodied novel addressing many themes:  people's ability to change; destiny and fate; and class warfare.  There are no easy answers, but that is just one more way in which this novel is realistic:  in real life, there never are.  I can't wait to see this movie.	2003-10-02
US	44135518	R2ZQSJAOHUYS6D	0671743058	14778474	Boy's Life	Books	4	3	3	N	N	It's a girl's life too	This is a wonderful romp through a boy's childhood in Zephyr, Alabama.  It is set in 1964, but could be set in modern times.  We all have to face some hard facts as we shed our childhood innocence: our parents make mistakes; people are not always what they seem; adults can be bullies, too; the world is not a fair place in general.  Cory learns all of these things, but also retains his belief in magic.  The author makes clear his belief that this is what comprises a successful transition into adulthood.<br />McCammon gets the details of small-town childhood just right.  His characters are three-dimensional and their dialogue is real and believable.  Cory's family life, while truly ideal, still has its problems and struggles associated with having parents who are real people rather than Leave-It-To-Beaver creations.<br />The central plot involves Cory's investigation into a murder that occurred in his hometown.  Don't be deceived--this isn't the true focus of this story.  The true focus is Cory's relationship with his family and friends.  If you focus too much on the mystery aspect of this story, you may be disappointed.  I felt that the murderer was easily spotted while not being a central enough character in the book to be that interesting.<br />Overall, I was thoroughly entertained and even enchanted by this novel about a boy's coming of age.  I could relate to Cory's experiences and sometimes painful realizations, and I am a girl who &quot;came of age&quot; in 1980's Michigan.  Some childhood experiences are universal.	2003-09-24
US	44135518	RHQUWNX6243ED	0451521129	444133547	Anne of Green Gables	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Revisiting my childhood	I read these books when I was in elementary school, and I loved them then. Recently, I was on a trip out of town and went browsing at a used bookstore.  I found a boxed set of the first three Anne books and decided to reread these books that I adored.  Rereading your favorite childhood books is always a bit risky--sometimes you find that your memory of the books is better than the books themselves, or that you have simply gotten too old to enjoy them anymore.  Not so with Anne.  The writing is wonderful, the characters are rich and entertaining, and the setting is so beautifully described that it made me long to take a vacation to Prince Edward Island.<br />Anne is easy to love, even (especially) when she misbehaves.  I loved revisiting her various escapades:  her fits of temper unleashed upon Rachel Lynde and Gilbert Blythe; falling off the ridgepole; jumping on Diana's Aunt Josephine; making Diana drunk; and nearly drowning while playing Lady Elaine.  I was also incredibly moved by Anne's interactions with both Matthew and Marilla.  I remembered crying as a child when I read about Anne's interactions with Matthew.  But I was also surprised about the quiet sweetness and poignancy of Anne's scenes with Marilla.  Reading this book as an adult made me more aware of the fact that Anne saved Marilla and Matthew as much as they saved her.<br />Mark Twain remarked that he had never met a more delightful childhood hero or heroine than Anne in literature.  What high praise for L.M. Montgomery!  I have read a great deal of literature with childhood heros and heroines, and I may agree with Mr. Twain's assessment.  Anne deserves a place in literature along with Huck Finn and Scout Finch.	2003-09-03
US	44135518	R3TSE66IRB2FZ8	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Intelligent  thriller	This was a great, quick read.  Often when I read mysteries or suspense novels, I find them to be poorly written and glaringly obvious.  Often they are so outlandish that you are unable to lose yourself in the fiction of the story.  Not so here.  This story is fast-paced but well-crafted and well-researched.<br />The story begins as Jacques Sauniere, the top executive of the Louvre, is murdered.  Robert Langdon, Harvard professor of religious symbolity, is immediately suspected because of a note Sauniere left at the scene of his death.  Sauniere's grandaughter, Sophie Nouveau, is a cryptologist with the French equivalent of the FBI,and becomes involved upon learning of the death message.  The parties learn that Sauniere was actually grand master of the Priory of Scion, an ancient organization dedicated to keeping a secret about Jesus Christ that would devastate the Catholic Church and Christianity in general.  Obviously, the Catholic Church is also seeking the secret kept by Sauniere--in order to destroy any evidence of it.<br />This novel features an elaborate cat and mouse game.  Sauniere's killer is pursuing Robert and Sophie.  Robert and<br />Sopie, meanwhile, are attempting to decipher code after code left by Sauniere which will ultimately lead to the secret.<br />Largely based on an actual alternate theory about Mary Magdalene and Jesus, I found this novel's research into Paganism and the Catholic Church to be fascinating.  I am not sure how much of the novel is accurate, but prominent people throughout history have subscribed to this theory. I looked back at Leonardo Da Vinci's painting of The Last Supper after reading The Da Vinci Code. I was able to see the symbols and clues described by Dan Brown concerning Mary Magdalene and the Apostle Peter.<br />This is an intelligent thriller.  I was never bored, and couldn't wait to plow through all 450 pages.  The chapters are also very short, which I find annoying in some books but added to the novel's fast pace in this case.  Surely this book is detested by the Catholic Church, but the controversial nature of the story makes it all the more interesting.his case.  Surely this book is detested by the Catholic Church, but the controversial nature of the story makes it all the more interesting.	2003-08-25
US	44135518	RUUBNU2L99X5W	0743428188	427242449	The Twentieth Wife: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting snapshot of an era	In The Twentieth Wife, readers are told the fact-based tale of Merunissa, the woman who would become Emperor Jahangir's twentieth wife and, ultimately, the most powerful woman in the Empire.  Before that happens, Jahangir and Merunissa are kept apart by a variety of forces conspiring against them, including Jahangir's power-hungry wife Jagat Gosini, Merunissa's first husband Ali Quili, differences in status, Ali Quili's exile from the kingdom, and Merunissa's father's fall from Jahangir's good graces.  Throughout their separation, Merunissa and Jahangir share an intense but troublesome attraction and love from afar.  However, the title gives everything away...we know from the start Merunissa will become Jahangir's twentieth wife.<br />This book was interesting, because in American schools we are often taught a great deal of European history, a great deal of American history, and a little Chinese and far Eastern history.  That's it.  We are really never taught about other region's histories, which are also rich and colorful.  Most notably, American schools lack instruction on African history.  Nor do I remember learning anything of Indian history.<br />Like European history, this tale features tales of princely revolts against their fathers, the king.  There are tales of wars between empires and constantly shifting territorial borders.  Notably, European, African, American and Indian history all has one thing in common--all feature the repression and silence of women.<br />Merunissa is luckier than most--she had both a father and a husband who respected her ideas despite her womanhood.  Still, she suffers as a result of her sex.  She has no choice about whom to marry, when to divorce, and where she will go.  Though Merunissa does not wish to marry Ali Quili, she does so for her father's sake.  To refuse the marriage arranged by Emperor Akbar will be a great insult.  Merunissa's lifelong happiness is inconsequential by comparison.  It is also interesting that men, even non-royalty, are allowed multiple wives plus concubines.  There is never a question about whether polyandry was permitted--clearly, it wasn't.<br />Overall, a rich and interesting tale.  Merunissa is a compelling character.  I am curious as to how much of the tale is based on verifiable fact, and how much is the author's invention.  This novel features both a compelling storyline and fully developed characters.  Highly recommended.	2003-08-18
US	44135518	RSM971VLS09FZ	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Portrait of family unity admid chaos and poverty	This is a novel to be read and enjoyed for many different reasons.  As an initial matter, it paints a portrait of Brooklyn at the turn of the twentieth century.  Many books contain descriptions, but this book contains something more.  I could hear the chaos on the streets, including the noisy children, horses and vendors.  I could smell and taste the coffee that Francie's mother left boiling on the stove at all hours of the day and night.  It went beyond mere description--this novel involved all of my senses and made me truly feel what it was like to live in that time and place.<br />Beyond the amazing imagery is a somewhat simple story of a family in crisis.  Johnny, the father, drinks too much and can't hold a job but is the light and life of the family.  Katie, the mother, loves her family ferociously, but has been imbittered by the strain that Johnny and their perpetual state of poverty places upon her.  The story truly belongs to Francie and Neely, the two children, who survive by staying together, inventing stories and games for each other, and finding joy in their meager surroundings.<br />The most noteworthy aspect of the novel, to me, was its utter anger.  I have heard Steinbeck's Travels with Charley described as &quot;an angry book&quot;.  A Tree Grows in Brooklyn was much angrier.  Francie's childlike but astute observations concerning how society ignores the needs and struggles of the working poor explode with anger.  Francie's shining moment is when she shames the doctor who comments in front of her that all poor people are dirty, without thinking that she and her brother can understand him.  Sissy's shining moment is when she shames Francie's teacher who ignores poor children to the point that she fails to release them to use the bathroom, causing them to have humiliating accidents.  Even Francie's and Neely's victories contain an undercurrent of anger.  They catch the leftover Christmas tree, warming the heart of the peddler who threw it.  But because he is poor, he cannot openly be happy for them, and has to throw curses after them as they parade home with their prize.<br />This book contains magic and heartbreak, heroics and cowardice, beauty and hideousness.  It describes what it was like to be a poor child in Brooklyn in 1908.  Above all, it reminds us that poverty and human behavior is universal.  Shamefully, children and adults are still going through what Francie and her family went through 100 years ago.	2003-08-07
US	44135518	R3AS95OTTRBWCX	0440482534	67415477	Starring Sally J. Freedman as Herself	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Definitely not just a children's book	Much like Betty Smith's A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, Starring Sally J. Friedman contains a portrait of an era.  The novel contains more than mere descriptions; I could actually feel what it was like to live in Miami right after World War II.  Sally's neighborhood, the school, the beach...all were so perfectly created that I felt that I was there, spending time with Andrea and Shelby along with Sally.<br />Probably the descriptions in this novel are so apt because this is largely an autobiographical tale.  I read that Judy Blume really did spend one school year in Miami with her mother, brother and grandmother, and that many stories contained in Sally J. Friedman really happened to Judy Blume.<br />The novel realistically addresses true concerns and fears concerning adolescence.  While most people no longer worry about one of their neighbors turning out to be Adolph Hitler, children often fear things that they learn from newspapers.  Their understanding of current events is often one-sided and uninformed, as they are shielded from all the facts by well-meaning adults.  They fill in the gaps with their imaginations.  Additionally, kids and adults alike have concerns about fitting in, keeping and making friends, and mortality.<br />I especially enjoyed Sally's relationship with her mother and father.  Her mother is a worrier...to the point that she lets much of the joy in life pass her by.  Her father is more free spirited, and tries to explain to Sally why her mother behaves the way that she does.  One beautiful scene in the novel occurs when Sally's dad explains that one can worry so much, that they don't enjoy what they have when they have it.  Sally struggles to be more like her father, while appreciating the concerns and motivations of her mother.<br />While this book paints a picture of an era, it contains smart prose and human insight that is timeless.  As all good historical fiction does, it teaches us something about the past while involving us in a story that isuniversal.	2003-08-07
US	44135518	RF4D2YA1P0R05	0140053204	690446916	Travels with Charley in Search of America	Books	4	217	222	N	N	A book full of truth	I have read somewhere that what makes a novel a &quot;classic&quot; is that it must contain some fundamental truths that can withstand changing fads, cultures and eras.  I know that &quot;Travels with Charley&quot; is not a novel but a memoir. However, this memoir contains so much truth that it deserves--and has acheived--almost instant &quot;classic&quot; status.<br />It is about John Steinbeck's trip across America.  He begins in New York, drives up through Maine, across the midwest, through Montana to Washington, down the Pacific Coast, through Texas and finally through the American southeast.  He was 58 when he took this trip, and his only companions were his loyal dog Charley and trailer Rocinante.  I appreciated the way that Steinbeck respected Charley, gave him human characteristics, and looked for Charley's observations on mankind as well as his own.<br />I have heard this memoir described as an &quot;angry&quot; book, but I think this only describes a small portion of Steinbeck's experiences on the road.  Steinbeck was certainly troubled by certain things--chief among them the horrifying &quot;witches sabbath&quot; that occurred in New Orleans.  He also looked with sadness upon the &quot;progress&quot; that has diminished our cultural identities and ravaged our beautiful land. However, he was wise enough to know that older people often cling to the past simply because it is familiar, but not because it was superior or even good.  He recognized that trait in himself and challenged it.<br />Some individual passages in this book were so wise I read them several times to try to appreciate the full extent of his wisdom.  For example, the passage where Steinbeck remarks that too many older people turn in their exciting lives for healthy and safe ones.  He wrote that he was not willing to exchange the quality of his life for slightly more quantity.  As I read this passage, I considered that he died less than 10 years after writing this book.  Sad, but how many people do a solo, cross-country road trip in their twilight years?  <br />I also appreciated, but was wounded by, his descriptions of racial unrest in the south.  The witches sabbath brought tears to my eyes, as it described the young black students as ultimately less pitiable then their tormenters.  The students were going places and had their whole lives before them; their tormenters were ugly, twisted people clinging to a past that they cherished simply because they feared the future and the unknown.<br />Ultimately, &quot;Travels with Charley&quot; is about embracing life.  Though Steinbeck saw much that troubled him, he saw much more that was beautiful, like the migrant farmers in Maine, the kind veterinarian in Amarillo, the wonderful tire shop owner in Portland.  As Steinbeck remarks, the America that he wrote about in this book doesn't exist anymore.  If we followed his exact route today, we would encounter something entirely different--both because of the passage of time and because of our varying perspectives.  However, while the America he wrote about no longer exists, the Americans do, and Steinbeck's memoir is a love song to them.	2003-07-18
US	44135518	R1337QU2064NE3	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Grisham is as greedy as his protagonist	I think I am through with John Grisham.  His earlier books were exciting and featured some actual character development.  His later books are completely formulaic, predictable and shallow.  Perhaps this is because he is turning out books at a rapid-fire pace.<br />To accept this book, you have to get past the initial actions of the protagonist, Clay Carter.  Carter is a burnt-out public defender assigned to represent Tequila Watson, a 20-year-old recovering addict without a history of violence, in a murder trial.  The murder is perplexing; Watson shied away from any confrontation and seemed to have no motive.  Enter Max Pace:  a \\"fire fighter\\" for a major pharmaceutical company, who explains that Watson has been taking Tarvan, a prescription drug rushed into the marketplace prior to the completion of a thorough study of its side effects.  In a small percentage of its users, it causes sudden, unprovoked violent outbursts.  Pace offers Clay millions of dollars to drop Tequila as a client, start his own firm, and represent the victims of the Tarvan killers in a quick and low-profile settlement.<br />And so Clay does!  He drops his client, keeps the scandal of Tarvan silent, and leaves Tequila to be sentenced to a life term in prison without ever mentioning Tarvan!  From there, he enters the mass tort game, suing huge companies in class-action suits, angling for the biggest settlement possible--not for the good of the class-action clients, but for the greedy lawyers' benefit.<br />How are we supposed to like this character whatsoever?  He wrestles with the moral obligations to Tequila for about half a second before dumping him, and we are supposed to think that he has any scruples?  His character, and the characters of his girlfriends and associates, are completely undeveloped and superficial.  <br />I give this book 2 stars because Grisham's take on the world of mass-tort law was interesting.  I have no idea if it is accurate.  I am a lawyer, and I bristle somewhat with the notion of portraying personal injury lawyers as greedy.  Generally, the pharmaceutical companies and the insurance companies are greedy--not the attorney suing these companies who is actually working in his clients' best interests.<br />I think Grisham writing a book about greed like this is particularly interesting.  I wondered the whole time what he was getting paid to write this shallow book, if he has a private jet and a Porsche.  He definitely worked harder when he wrote books like A Time to Kill, The Rainmaker, and The Pelican Brief, and the results were a hundred times better.	2003-07-10
US	44135518	RTFFH83GYQ3SE	0140186409	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (20th Century Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A literary portrait of the necessity of unions	I write this review from the perspective of a union-side labor attorney.  Prior to reading this novel, I only knew that the subject of the novel was a group of &quot;Okies&quot; (dust-bowl farmers from Oklahoma) and their struggle to survive the Great Depression.  However, that is just the protagonists' starting point.  From these origins, the Joad family is evicted from their nearly worthless farmland and are forced to travel westward to California.  California to the Joad family--and thousands of families like them--is a promised land of milk and honey.  As they continue to travel and ultimately arrive in California, they discover it is anything but a promised land.<br />And here is where Steinbeck's utter rage shines through.  The Joad family (and thousands of families like theirs) travels to California because they have seen flyers proclaiming the need for grape pickers, peach pickers, cotton pickers, etc.  The flyer states that 500 pickers are needed.  In reality, only 250 pickers are needed.  Additionally, the printers of these flyers (the greedy farm corporations, replacing the individual farmers) distribute these flyers to far more than 500 people.  Thousands and thousands of people receive the flyers, creating the farm corporations' dream come true--a glut of starving workers fighting for any job they can get.<br />Therefore, the starving workers undercut each other.  While one worker says he will work for $.25 per day, the other worker who is hungrier says that if he gets the job, he will only require $.20 per day.  The vicious cycle continues.  The rich get richer, and the workers starve.  And the outbidding is really the best time of the year--in the winter, there is no work and hence no bidding or money.  Whenever anyone talks about organizing the workforce, he is labeled a &quot;red&quot; and either put on a blacklist or killed on the spot.<br />This book is really a rallying cry for the necessity of unions.  There are people who now say that unions have served their purpose and are no longer necessary.  To that, I must respond that those people do not really understand the watchdog effect of unions.<br />It seems that people remember &quot;The Jungle&quot; as more of a tribute to unions than &quot;The Grapes of Wrath.&quot;  I have read &quot;The Jungle&quot; also, and while I think it is a great book and a very important one, it lacks the literary finesse of Steinbeck.  Both books are stories of rage, but Steinbeck's prose is beautiful, haunting, both mournful and intensely angry.  As he writes an indictment of the farming corporations, he also writes a love song to America, highlighting the beauty of its land and the bravery and kindness of its people.  The Joad family is overwhelmingly good even in the face of one of the cruelest chapters of American history.  The last paragraph of the novel both breaks your heart and renews your faith in humanity.have served their purpose and are no longer necessary.  To that, I must respond that those people do not really understand the watchdog effect of unions.<br />It seems that people remember &quot;The Jungle&quot; as more of a tribute to unions than &quot;The Grapes of Wrath.&quot;  I have read &quot;The Jungle&quot; also, and while I think it is a great book and a very important one, it lacks the literary finesse of Steinbeck.  Both books are stories of rage, but Steinbeck's prose is beautiful, haunting, both mournful and intensely angry.  As he writes an indictment of the farming corporations, he also writes a love song to America, highlighting the beauty of its land and the bravery and kindness of its people.  The Joad family is overwhelmingly good even in the face of one of the cruelest chapters of American history.  The last paragraph of the novel both breaks your heart and renews your faith in humanity.	2003-07-07
US	44135518	RPHSCWH7QAUAY	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent, but for once the movie is better	I read this novel after having already viewed the movie by the same name.  The book and film start off nearly identically:  Two brothers (Hank and Jacob) and Jacob's friend Lou find a bag containing more than $4 million in a crashed plane in the woods.  They agree to hold onto the money for several months, while waiting to see if it is marked or if they will be caught if they attempt to spend it.  If nothing happens in six months, the three men will split the money, leave town, and live happily ever after while enjoying the finest things in life.  Only, as you already surely know, the plan turns out to be not so simple.  Instead, it goes horribly awry.<br />The movie and book are the same in the way that the plan initially begins to fail.  Hank and Jacob encounter the same problems with Dwight Pederson, Lou and his girlfriend Nancy.  From there, the movie and book take their respective audiences down different paths that I will not reveal.  <br />I liked the movie's path better, because I could better understand and appreciate Hank's actions in the movie.  He comes off as less heartless, and it is easier to see his transformation from a good person to a man who has done completely evil things.  Hank is far more ruthless and calculating in the book, and this is harder to accept in light of his beginnings as a normal, good man.  It's hard to discuss the differences between the two media without giving too much away.<br />However, I cannot say that I was at all disappointed in the book.  It kept me completely riveted.  For the most part, the characters were completely realistic and simply entangled in an awful mess that they feel powerless to free themselves from.  After finishing the book, the enormity of the character's losses took my breath away.  I was left wondering whether, even if everything had gone according to the original plan, any of the characters would have been any happier than they had been prior to finding the money.	2003-07-07
US	44135518	R2ENCWG205SMTV	0684853906	213230457	Terms of Endearment: A Novel	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Oh the melodrama!	This novel is comprised of two parts.  The first 9/10 of the book is basically a very long character development on Aurora Greenway, a spoiled Houston widow with no shortage of \\"suitors\\" who adore her and put up with her egomania and fits of exceedingly bad behavior.  The remaining 1/10 of the book focuses primarily on Aurora's daughter Emma, who lives through a bad marriage and a series of disappointing affairs only to die of cancer slowly, surrounded by her mother, children, husband and lover.<br />The first part of this book was pretty entertaining.  Aurora was someone who I would want to strangle in real life, but her suitors and housekeeper Rosie kept things rolling.  I especially liked Vernon, her Texas millionaire oilman.  However, no characters really seemed to do anything--just sit around having dinner parties, going out to breakfast, and generally behaving like spoiled brats at all times between and during.<br />If you have seen the movie by the same name, you know that the movie focuses mainly on this last 1/10 of the book--Emma's dramatic demise.  I don't intend to make light of anyone's suffering, and certainly not of cancer, but this part of the book was overdone to the extreme, much like the Bette Midler movie \\"Beaches.\\"  I hate books and movies that seem to be written solely with the intention of getting a cheap cry out of you, and that's they way this part of the book read to me.  Emma's speech to her son Tommy about how he should be nice to her because 10 years from now he will look back and regret mistreating her on her deathbed made me cringe.<br />I had a hard time accepting this book's structure.  So little happened in the majority of the novel and so much happened at the end.  The akward structure and forced tearjerking made me less appreciative of all the good writing that came before the sapply finale.  I have to admit that this book kept me entertained, but great literature it's not.	2003-06-25
US	44135518	R1KNPFLAFX9E5M	0060958022	582577419	Five Quarters of the Orange	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Beautiful, unconventional mother-daughter tale	First things first:  the writing in this novel is absolutely breathtaking.  Harris's descriptions of the French countryside, the native cuisine, even the shabby little farmhouse are to be read slowly, savored and read again.  Reading this novel is almost like reading a beautiful love song to France.<br />Apart from the beautiful setting, there are really two, amazing intertwined stories unfolding before the reader's eyes.  One, set in modern times, is the tale of a 65-year-old Framboise, who returns to her childhood farmhouse after a long exile.  She opens a wonderful creperie but keeps to herself, afraid of alerting the townfolk to the fact that she is the same Framboise who left the town in disgrace with her family when she was nine years old.<br />The second tale tells the source of that disgrace.  It is told through the eyes of nine-year-old Framboise during a summer of Nazi occupation of France.  She and her siblings befriend a German soldier and tragedy unfolds.<br />The novel jumps from one of these stories to another.  The always constant elements are that of Framboise's mother's wonderful recipes.  Through these recipes we learn of Framboise's mother's character, which is spiteful, cruel, but contains unexpected elements and depth.  Other readers have disclosed the title's origins, but I wish they hadn't.  Learning of Framboise's actions with the orange was one of the most dramatic and horrifying elements of the novel for me, and some reviewers ruined the surprise.  This is a wonderfully-structured, imaginitive tale that will leave you longing for French food and to feel the August sun on your back.	2003-06-23
US	44135518	R1UXGC6JNX1JWJ	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	6	6	N	N	THE great American novel	I have heard this award bestowed upon The Great Gatsby, but for me, To Kill A Mockingbird is the great American novel.  In it, we meet the best and worst America has to offer.  We learn that while most Americans are good people \\"when you really see them\\", we unconsciously inflict the most damage upon those who never hurt us.<br />The central plot in Ms. Lee's tale involves the trial of Tom Robinson, but the book is half over by the time we reach this point.  Instead, Ms. Lee paints a picture of a sleepy, shabby Alabama town where locals are poor, have little to do, and spend a great deal of time worrying about the activities of their neighbors.  We see the town through the eyes of Scout and Jem Finch, children of the attorney Atticus Finch.  Slowly we see a world where people want to do the right thing, but lack the courage of their convictions.  We see how unjustly the town's African American citizens are treated by the majority of the townfolk, by the contrastingly decent and fair treatment of these citizens by Atticus.  We learn that Atticus is the man in the town who does what no one else has the heart to do--whether it is shooting a rabid dog or defending Tom Robinson in an unwinnable case.  He does it all without boasting, and without the expectation of reward.<br />I read recently that Atticus Finch had been voted the #1 hero in American cinematography by a majority of Americans voting.  I work as a lawyer, and a majority of my classmates ran off to join a big firm and get as rich as possible as soon as they graduated.  Yet we idealize this simple, humble man who believed in doing the right thing before making a fast buck.  In this time of Enron and secret terrorism tribunals--both of which make a mockery of our legal system--it is important to remember the lessons taught by Atticus Finch:  never cheat a man with less education, for anyone who does so is trash; never judge someone, for you don't know what it is like to walk in their shoes; never shoot a mockingbird, for all they ever do is make beautiful music for the rest of us.	2003-06-09
US	44135518	RJZ2PU2VYHR4E	0451194004	982014605	Rosemary's Baby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderfully creepy	This story is so effectively creepy because it seems so normal.  Rosemary and Guy Woodhouse are in many ways your typical young couple (albeit in 1966).  He's handsome, she's pretty, they hang out with friends, have a healthy sex life and generally enjoy each other's company.  The main difference between the Woodhouse's and your average couple is that Guy aspires to be an actor, and Rosemary is so head over heels in love with him that she ignores his caddish, self-centered behavior.  <br />The events in this novel have been described at length by previous reviewers, and I will not repeat the summary here.  I will add that the dialogue and descriptions of every day life are wonderful.  The neighbors are well-characterized and seem like they could be your neighbors anywhere.  This straight-forward storytelling method for me just adds to the creepiness--awful things are happening in broad daylight and being performed by the sweet grandma and grandpa next door.  And to this poor unsuspecting young pregnant woman to boot!<br />I read this book a few years ago and recently re-read it.  On my second read, I was surprised that I didn't pick up on Guy's involvement sooner.  But this time, since I knew what was coming, I noticed all the subtle details planted throughout the story that are each little strokes of genius (the missing glove, Guy's trip for ice cream, etc.)  Ira Levin is a master storyteller, and here he delivers a story so disturbing that gorier, less artful horror stories cannot compete with it.  If you get a chance, check out the movie.  Mia Farrow's portrayal of Rosemary, and the depiction of Minnie and Roman are flawless.  Plus, the movie lifts the dialogue almost word-for-word from the book.  This is the perfect book to read when you want to be thoroughly disturbed in the blandest of settings.	2003-05-30
US	44135518	R3EGUZIASS2871	0061091790	153058743	After All These Years	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Quick and fun	I picked up this book after reading \\"Compromising Positions\\" and its sequel, \\"Long Time No See\\".  \\"Long Time No See\\" was written 20 years after \\"Compromising Positions\\", and \\"After All These Years\\" was written between these two novels.  I have concluded that Isaacs continues to improve with age.  This book was better than \\"Compromising Positions\\", but not quite at the level of \\"Long Time No See.\\"<br />There's plenty to enjoy in this novel.  Isaacs has such a pleasant style and is so clever, this book will keep you laughing throughout.  Plus, you have to love a heroine who, after, being dumped by her adulterous husband, manages to solve the mystery surrounding his murder plus makes time to enjoy not one, but two, affairs while on the lamb.  The characters are well-crafted and entertaining.  Isaacs does not hesitate to allow the main character to poke fun at herself either.  Plus, it is fun to find out the secret life her husband has been leading ever since they struck it rich.  The only detractor was that I figured out \\"who done it\\" very early on.  So, to me, the ultimate solving of the crime was definitely not the highlight of the story.<br />I read this thick book over a weekend, while in the car on a long trip.  It was thoroughly entertaining, and made me promptly go out and purchase another Isaacs novel--\\"Lily White\\".  Even when I do solve the mystery sooner than the protagonist, Isaacs keeps me laughing, and I'm always anxious to read some more.	2003-05-27
US	44135518	R2ELQ9JO8F661F	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable but not as powerful as past Tan work	The Bonesetter's Daughter is Amy Tan's latest exploration into the complex, difficult, but compelling bonds that exist between mothers and daughters generally.  Like her other novels, the mother and daughter in this novel are Chinese Americans, and Tan explores the inherent struggle between the mother's traditional views and the daughter's modern, Americanized existence.<br />The events of this novel have been thoroughly discussed by previous reviewers, and I will not resummarize here.  I found the relationship between Ruth and her mother Luling to be realistic and troubled, but also very rich.  Apart from any reference to the culture of this mother and daughter, I think many difficulties that Ruth and LuLing experienced are universal.  Many mothers and daughters love each other ferociously but are unable to express it with words or actions--causing frustration and hurt.  LuLing is obviously fiercely proud of Ruth's accomplishments, but cannot say so.  Ruth, in turn, sees her mother as the most important person in her life--even more important than her live-in boyfriend of 10 years and life partner--but also fails to share her admiration with her mother.  It was sad to read about how these characters failed to connect, but also familiar.  Many of us are unable to say the most important things to the ones we love.<br />This novel largely also focuses upon LuLing's struggles in her native China both before and after World War II, as well as her experiences with her \\"Precious Auntie\\".  While both stories were interesting, I did not believe that the character of LuLing was as well developed as many of the characters in Tan's previous works.  It certainly was not as well developed as that of her daughter, Ruth.  Nevertheless, this middle section was compelling as it documents all that LuLing had to do to survive the Japanese occupation and the family's struggles with the evil Chang family.<br />This novel was easy to read, and I finished it in a few days.  I very much appreciated the depiction of Ruth's and LuLing's troubled but rewarding relationship. If you're new to Amy Tan, I would read this book after reading \\"The Joy Luck Club\\".	2003-05-07
US	44135518	R3964T13QZ5RVN	0812966627	445955952	10th Grade: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exactly what it's like to be 15	I read this book on an airplane and could not stop laughing out loud.  It was honestly embarassing--people kept looking at me like I was some sort of lunatic.  But I just could not put this book down.<br />I haven't been 15 in a long time, but this novel brought it all back:  the way nothing you say is really ever the right thing; the way you love your parents but find them to be pretty wierd and often embarassing; the way everyone wants you to find out what your life's ambitions are, and you really don't know what they are.  This novel perfectly captured all of these emotions, as well as the akward, gawky way teenagers and even adults communicate with each other.  I'm 27, and still feel like I sound like a complete dork most of the time when I talk.<br />Even though this book is hilarious, it also has sad parts.  It is hard when you drift apart from friends, or when you really don't know where you fit in.  It's difficult to talk to your parents when you're 15.  It's almost impossible to find the right balance between fitting in and setting yourself apart from the crowd.<br />The funny part is, the narrator succeeds in doing all of these things.  He is really a tremendously likable sophomore guy.  He doesn't always go along with the crowd.  He's nice to both guys and girls.  He doesn't think his parents are hopeless cases and instead pretty much enjoys their family trip to England (which is one of the most hilarious parts of this book).  While riddled with insecurities, Jeremy is really what I would have most aspired to be like when I was 15.<br />In this book, you will travel with Jeremy Reskin through his sophomore year of high school--from the first day of class to the prom.  I was simultaneously reminded of all the best and worst that high school has to offer.  While I'm glad I'm not a teenager anymore, this is a fun and realistic trip back.  Highly recommended.	2003-05-07
US	44135518	R2YRAPFH6SRJZS	0449911802	793426177	Celestial Navigation	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Well-written but not her best	As the title suggests, this is a novel about people trying to navigate their own lives with the tools they have been given.  Many of these tools are woefully inadequate.  Jeremy Pauling, for example, is painfully shy, even agoraphobic, and has been made to fear people all the more by the codependent relationship he shared with his similarly agoraphobic mother.  When he dies, Jeremy has to take over running the boarding house he shared with his mother.  The house is filled with a host of lonely misfits.  When a young mother and her four-year-old daughter rent a room, Jeremy finds a companion, if not a soul mate.<br />My favorite theme in this novel was the failure of people who love each other to communicate.  Mary and Jeremy are obviously in love, but each accentuates a weakness in the other.  Mary's no-nonsense, take-charge attitude allows Jeremy to become all the more withdrawn from the rest of society, while Jeremy's insecurities force Mary to take charge even when she doesn't want to.  Yet they never discuss their problems, and these problems are ultimately left completely unresolved.  Every character in this novel suffers from the same communications failures--from Jeremy's overbearing sister Amanda, to the boarder Olivia, to Mary's ex-husband Guy.  The one character who actually breaks down any communication barriers is Miss Vinton.  She does so only for a brief moment, but it is her shining moment.<br />I found this book to be more like a character study in a psychology textbook than a novel.  It was well written, and the characters were well developed, but there was essentially no plot, and no characters except Miss Vinton seemed to make any progress.  I could listen to Ms. Tyler's beautiful prose for hours, but would rather do so in one of her later novels like Ladder of Years or The Accidental Tourist.  Here, she shows us a glimpse of the fantastic author she became in later years.  Ultimately, those stories are fuller and more complete--they have the interesting characters and the compelling storyline.  While I enjoyed reading Celestial Navigation, I was left ultimately unsatisfied after its abrupt and achingly sad conclusion.	2003-04-24
US	44135518	R28DYWKXITPZVH	0451169522	916592852	Misery	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Read with plenty of Novril	I love Stephen King.  As I read more and more of his novels, I think that he will be one of the authors that is remembered and studied long after his death.  I think it's interesting that he has been labeled a horror writer alone.  While nearly all of his novels contain unsettling elements, life itself is unsettling.  Some of his novels are bloody thrillers (Desperation, e.g.), but many more are just disturbing character studies of society's misfits.  Misery is one of the best of this genre. It contains a powerful character study of two such misfits:  Paul Sheldon and Annie Wilkes.<br />Though Paul is \\"successful\\" as the term is generally defined, he is clearly depressed and lonely.  Annie is unsuccessful by society's standards, and also depressed and lonely.  Annie clearly shows her depression and loneliness in more alarming ways, but the underlying emotions are similar.  That is what allows the characters to interact in such a fascinating manner.  Paul understands what makes Annie tick, even when she has crossed over into the bounds of lunacy.  This understanding is what makes it possible for Paul to survive so long with a murderous bi-polar child-woman like Annie.<br />The plot in this novel is simple, and there are really only two characters in the entire story.  That is enough.  King doesn't need an elaborate setting or a bevy of entertaining characters to create a compelling tale.  There is nothing more suspenseful than Annie during one of her psychotic episodes or Paul when he makes his desparate and sometimes ill-conceived escape attempts.  I read this novel years ago, but I had forgotten how complex and mesmerizing it is.  When I reread it last week, I devoured it in a couple of hours.<br />This is an excellent tale of loneliness, resourcefullness, and the battle between good and evil in all of us.  It is also your worst nightmare, and an excellent public service announcement warning of the possible unforseen dangers of drunk driving.	2003-04-14
US	44135518	RDWY4EOWFA87K	034544177X	983384697	All Souls: A Family Story from Southie (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Haunting	All Souls is the true story of a single mother and her large brood of children, growing up in the violent housing project of Old Colony.  Old Colony is the impoverished, all-white projects located in South Boston, \\"Southie\\".  Citizens there suffer from all the same problems plaguing all-black inner city neighborhoods--poverty, drugs, violence, guns, suicide--but live by a strict honor code which dictates that you don't \\"rat\\" on anyone.  This code allows crimes to go unreported, unnoticed, unpunished and unattended.  <br />We learn about Southie through the author's firsthand account of his childhood in the projects.  He lost four of his brothers to suicide, drugs, violence and poverty.  Another of his siblings, his sister Kathy, was either pushed or jumped off the roof of the project during a fight over drugs, and lay in a coma for four months. Finally, his youngest brother, Stevie, witnesses his best friend's suicide at age 13 and was railroaded by a corrupt judicial system quick to pin the blame on anyone other than their own blatant shortcomings.<br />Though deeply troubling, the account is not without humor and warmth.  Helen King--\\"Ma\\"--plays the accordian in country bars, jogs in jeans and full makeup \\"to keep her figure\\", is rarely seen without her spike heels, and goes through a series of men and fathers.  She is also a career welfare mother.  Her strength in keeping her family together, and carrying on after the deaths of four of her children, is amazing.  The author describes the mother's breaking point--going to her son's friend's confirmation one month and his funeral the next, all at the same church. With that, she packs the brood up to a trailer park in Colorado.<br />One of the most powerful parts of the book to me was the author's description of his grandfather's funeral.  \\"I couldn't figure out why I was so happy at a funeral,\\" he writes, \\"Then I realized it was the first funeral I had ever been to where the person died naturally, of old age.\\"<br />This is a powerful tale of strength in the face of corruption, of everyday heroes in a world of cowards. It is also clearly about the author's love of his home.  He regularly describes Southie as \\"the best place in the world\\" despite all the tragedy he endured there.  His love/hate relationship with Old Colony and Southie transcend some rough writing and unpolished prose.  An amazing story that I will not forget.	2003-03-28
US	44135518	R7SYDV9JU0GW	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So much better than the movie!	Everyone kept telling me how great this book was.  Before I got a chance to read it, I went to see the movie with my mom, her friends, and her friends' daughters (in the spirit of the ya-yas and petite ya-yas).  In my opinion, the movie did not do justice to the characters of Vivi or Sidda--who both came off as spoiled brats.  The origins of Vivi's illness were also so superficially explored that I felt it did not excuse her questionable mothering skills.  Needless to say, I was unimpressed.  However, after more urging to read the book, I gave the story a second try, and I'm glad that I did.<br />This story is actually a little gem about female friendship and the complex relationship between mothers and daughters.  In the story, we are introduced to Vivi, Necie, Teensy and Caro, a group of four friends growing up in Central Louisiana in the 30's and 40's.  The lifelong friends refer to themselves as the &quot;ya yas&quot;.  Though the story is about all four girls, it focuses primarily on Vivi.  We learn about the hapiness she derives from the friendship with the ya yas, but also the sadness she endures during childhood, adolescence and adulthood.  Vivi loses her true love in World War II, is sent to a horrible Catholic boarding school where everyone hates her (including all of the nuns), is treated abominably by her jealous mother and callous father, suffers from alcoholism, and eventually has a breakdown as a mother of four children.  This breakdown is the source of much tension between Vivi and her oldest daughter Sidda.  Sidda's education about the secret life of her mother and the ya yas drives the plot, and is a wonderful example of the fact that children often know little about their parents as people.<br />I loved the story of Vivi and Sidda's relationship, and of the ya yas' deep and intense friendship.  However, I also loved many of the story's less tangible qualities:  descriptions of the bayou and its culture, the wonderful Southern expressions and speech, Vivi's and Sidda's relationship with the black women who raised each of them.  This is a beautiful tale with many unexpected extra touches that made it stand out.  What could have been another in an endless line of mother-daughter explorations was instead colorful and lively based on the Louisiana setting and the ya yas' animated storytelling.	2003-03-18
US	44135518	R32EDEN4Q1IMND	0312135297	361047128	Keeper of the House: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Minyon's voice is beautiful music	Without a doubt, the strong suit of this novel is the beautiful narrative voice of its protagonist, Minyon Manigault.  The novel is set near Charleston, South Carolina.  It begins in 1929 and ends 40 years later, in 1969.  Minyon narrates the changes in her world throughout these 40 years in her native Gullah dialect, with vivid imagery and a strong feminine voice.  Her narration dips and flows and is actually music to the reader's ears.<br />The subject of Min's narration is somewhat less compelling.  Min is the keeper of the house of Hazelhedge, an elegant brothel run by Ariadne (\\"Miss Addie\\") Fleming.  Min, Addie, Sarah the cook, and Frank the bartender are the only characters that remain in the book from start to finish.  Obviously, over a 40-year span of time the \\"hoes\\" come and go.  The book is divided into 5 decades and detail the changes in the house as well as the changes in Min and Addie's relationship.  During the house's 40-year life, Min and Addie battle the Great Depression, prohibition, loss of loved ones, World War II, drug use among the \\"hoes\\", tax troubles, and a few bad hoes who try to steal and even kill to claw their way out of a life of prostitution.  Min's perspective also vividly depicts a world of racism, both within and outside of the house.<br />Min and Addie's relationship is somewhat interesting as it progresses from that of master/servant to more of a partnership.  Some of the stories of the bad hoes and bad tricks are also interesting.  However, in many ways the novel reads more like five short stories; a different story with each decade.  Also, although the author intentionally kept Addie's character mysterious and ambivalent, I wish she would have focused a little more on her relationship with Min.  While their relationship is the one constant in all the five \\"short stories\\", it is always a peripheral story and not explored as fully as I wished it had been.<br />This was a creative effort by the author and contains such beautifully rendered prose that it mostly makes up for the book's flaws.  I could have listened to Min narrate several other books with her keen but unsophisticated insights and beautiful native tongue.	2003-03-07
US	44135518	R1GBAPW8H5Z0RG	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An ordinary woman's extraordinary life	In many ways, Daisy Goodwill Flett lived an ordinary life.  She went to school, had two great girlfriends, got married, raised a family, retired to Florida as a widower, and died after a long illness at a convalescence home.  Many things occurred during Daisy's life which make you realize that every life contains extraordinary chapters that are not shared with the outside world.  In Daisy's case, her own children never knew that she had been married prior to marrying their father, and that her husband died by falling drunk off a balcony during their honeymoon.<br />The first chapter of this book is narrated by Daisy.  The rest are narrated in the third person, and chronicle events rather than feelings.  This was intentional; the author focused on life's events rather than feelings.  By doing so, we never get a clear sense of Daisy's personality.  This sense of disconnection from Daisy's thoughts is furthered by the absence of a photograph of Daisy, even while there are photos of Daisy's children, friends, husbands and grandchildren.<br />So who is Daisy?  Daisy is defined by what happens to her, rather than what she is like as a person...as we all are.  Daisy's mother died in childbirth.  Daisy's father built a monument as tribute to her mother.  Daisy's husband died on their honeymoon.  Daisy became Ms. Green Thumb, the author of a newspaper column on gardening.  We are told who Daisy is through a collection of letters, diary entries, and opinions by others, but not by Daisy herself.<br />Only on her deathbed do we get a true sense of what Daisy thinks.  The author seems to be saying that once we are forced to stop and sit still, and quit occupying our time with the mundane details of daily life, we finally allow ourselves to contemplate our own selves.  Near Daisy's death we finally learn how Daisy has ached her whole life for a family, how akward she felt with even her second husband, the supposed love of her life.<br />This was an extremely creative literary effort by the author.  It really made me consider how much time we waste, and how little we know about the ones we truly love.  We truly define ourselves and others by actions, rather than personalities, ideas, or feelings.  The sense of disconnection between Daisy and the reader, however, would not induce me to read this novel again.  It is what people believe and feel that makes them interesting characters.  Like her children, readers never really know Daisy.	2003-03-04
US	44135518	R1Z3AR92ZTF2J3	006053429X	8023177	Couldn't Keep It to Myself: Testimonies from Our Imprisoned Sisters	Books	5	131	137	N	N	Inmates are people first, prisoners second	This book has already caused a stir for all the wrong reasons.  Various victims' rights groups have taken issue with this book for the following reasons:  (a) that Wally Lamb would devote his time to, of all things, a group of criminals; and (b) that the stories in this book humanize their writers rather than focuses on the victims of their crimes.  It is undisputed that the women who wrote these memoirs did a variety of illegal, immoral and awful things.  However, if you read these stories, you will begin to wonder who the victims really are.<br />The women's stories are uniformly heartbreaking; nearly all the authors were victims of sexual abuse.  Nearly all grew up poor.  Nearly all had minimal or questionable parental support.  And about half wrote about abusive romantic relationships.  Several of the authors are in prison for killing their abusive spouse and/or significant other.  While it was wrong for them to take their husband's lives, it is also understandable once you read their harrowing tales.<br />I was especially moved by Bonnie Foreshaw's \\"Faith, Power and Pants\\" and Diane Bartholomew's \\"Snapshots of my former life.\\"  Both went from unbearable childhoods to atrocious marriages.  Both are clearly angry with a system that has failed them.  Yet both write of finding hope despite all the indignities life has thrown at them.  As a final indignity, Bartholomew developed cancer while writing her memoir.  Only then was she paroled for the murder of her abusive husband.  It is clear that she was only paroled because the State of Connecticutt did not want to pay her chemotherapy bills.<br />This book can be harrowing to read but it left me with a sense of hope.  Beautiful women exist underneath the prison fatigues, who have survived despite the brutal conditions of the penitentiary system.  Each story in this collection moved me in a different way.  I can say that about very few books.	2003-02-24
US	44135518	R2CS6ABVDON884	0385413041	956782258	Beach Music	Books	3	20	27	N	N	Flashes of brilliance...	...were not enough to save this book. I bought this book based on a friend's recommendation and on my love of \\"My Losing Season\\". Conroy certainly has a flair for the English language, and some of his introspections and descriptions of the world around him are simply impeccable. That said, this is one of the most pretentious books I have ever read. Additionally, the dialogue in this novel was so flippant and trite that it made me cringe whenever I stumbled upon a scene where Jack was talking to either his daughter or to his four brothers.<br />Jack is an American expatriate living in Rome with his young daughter after his wife, Shyla, committed suicide in their hometown of Charleston, South Carolina. Various events bring Jack back home, among them his mother's struggles with leukemia, his Hollywood producer's friend's idea to make a movie about their childhood, and memories of the beautiful Shyla. Do you see a pattern here? This book covers nearly every topic known to literature: cancer; sexual assault; true love; courtroom drama; racism; schizophrenia and assorted mental illnesses; the Holocaust, the Vietnam War; suicide; terrorist attacks; and the extinction of the loggerhead turtle.<br />Simply put, this book is a little overly ambitious. Sometimes less is more. And some areas I wish Conroy had explained a little seemed to be devoid of detail and/or explanation. For example, Jack repeatedly refers to his horrible childhood and lays blame with his mother, Lucy. However, readers are never really told what Lucy did that was so horrible. For the most part, throughout the book, Conroy paints Lucy as a saint who saves the loggerhead turtle, does her best to diffuse racism in the south, and prepares her sons for her imminent death with grace and dignity. Perhaps the worst part of the book is the dialogue between Jack and his four brothers with the unbelievably pretentious names (i.e. \\"Dupree\\"). At all times, the brothers engage in a battle as to who can be the most sarcastic and witty, and the banter simply seems false and tiresome.<br />All of that aside, the story did have its moments. The stories concerning the Holocaust were riveting and some of the descriptions of nature and Rome were flawless. This book simply lacked an authenticity that I found so touching in \\"My Losing Season.\\" What could have been a beautiful, and much simpler, story was cluttered with too much witty repertee and an attempt to tackle too many serious subjects at once.	2003-02-14
US	44135518	R1LQNP3B3JJTPL	0385489129	752867547	My Losing Season	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Winner	My Losing Season is the non-fiction tale of the author's 1966-67 basketball season at the Citadel.  By all accounts, the season was a disaster; they went 8-17 and lost in the first round of championship play.  It was also Conroy's senior year and his best year as a basketball player.  He averaged 12 points per game, served as team captain, and received the MVP trophy.  This book tells the story of this season of mixed blessings and how Conroy became the 5&quot;10 second-string point guard that triumphed in this defeating year.<br />This story is about much more than the 1966-67 season.  Conroy lays out his love affair with the game of basketball, which began with pickup games he played while spending time with his aunt and uncle in Orlando, Florida.  Conroy's love of the game was the only thing he had to cling to as he endured a childhood full of physical and emotional abuse at the hands of his father, and while the family kept moving as his father was reassigned positions throughout the country.  Conroy played in Virgina, North Carolina, and graduated from high school as the star of the Beaufort, South Carolina High School team.  Having no other options, Pat enrolled in the Citadel.  He details the triumphs and perils of the pleb system, academic life, and the basketball team with beautiful language and an obvious enchantment with his playing days.<br />This book was wonderfully reconstructed through interviews with teammates, reviews of newspaper articles, and the author's own memory of the year.  The characters of both his father, Don Conroy, and his coach, Mel Thompson, evoked horror and anger in me as I read.  It is clear that Coach Thompson could have had a winning team, but was unable to give praise or constructive criticism that would have helped his team to gel and play off each others' strengths.  The book contains dreadful yet beautiful descriptions of the internal workings of the Citadel.  I also loved the author's descriptions of his evolving love of the English language and the great works of William Faulkner and Sinclair Lewis.<br />Conroy has created a beautiful memoir of his basketball season, interweaving stories from his childhood, academic life, and current middle-aged status.  He states at the outset of this book that he has always learned more from losing seasons than from winning ones, and I can see why.  By reexamining the disasterous 1966-67 Citadel basketball season, Conroy was forced to reexamine painful childhood memories and horrible moments as a pleb.  At the end of the story a reader can see that he is stronger for having done so, and I am stronger for have taken the journey with him.  This is a truly magical memoir and you do not need to be a basketball fan to share in the wonder of Conroy's life.	2003-01-22
US	44135518	R2HCZDIW5O6S1X	0373250215	498632413	Burning The Map	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Easy reading	This book is nothing more than a quick, amusing story, and it doesn't pretend to be.  Casey and her two best girlfriends vacation first in Rome, then in the Greek Isles for three weeks after Casey takes the bar exam but before she starts working 14-hour days at her heavy hitting law firm.  While on vacation, Casey faces resentment from her friends, who feel that she has been neglecting them in favor of her boyfriend for the past two years.  She also gives in to her weakness for Italian men and enjoys not one, but two, relatively innocent flings.<br />I am a lawyer and I can appreciate the sense of dread that you are going to spend all of your time at your desk for the next 30-odd years.  I also can appreciate the sadness of friendships that crumble due to scheduling and neglect.  Caldwell writes in a smooth, pleasant style which allowed me to devour this book in about an hour and a half.  I liked her descriptions of Italy and the beautiful islands of Greece.  It made me long for a vacation with friends.<br />The one thing I did not particularly enjoy was the author's depiction of one of Casey's friends, Lindsay.  Her criticism of Casey was a little heavy handed and prolonged.  If I had been Casey, I wouldn't have put up with lecture after boring lecture while I was on my last pre-professional vacation.  <br />However, this was an enjoyable read if not an overly memorable one.  All I sought was entertainment and a happy ending, and Caldwell delivered.	2003-01-21
US	44135518	RYDHMZX36O9QP	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Absolutely delightful	My mother has been trying to foist this book off on me for years, but I always resisted.  I thought that the stodgy language, Victorian morality, and melodramatic romance would be tiresome and trite.  I could not have been more wrong.  I instantly fell in love with Elizabeth Bennett, the young heroine of this novel and the \\"prejudice\\" referred to in the book's title.<br />Of course, the \\"pride\\" is the insufferable Mr. Darcy, who looks down upon Elizabeth, her four sisters and her ridiculously self-absorbed mother.  However, what begins as outright animosity between Lizzie and Mr. Darcy blossoms into appreciation and finally true love. (I hope I didn't spoil the book for anyone, but if you didn't see the ending coming, you need to read more!)<br />The language in this novel is terse, elegant and hilarious.  Elizabeth can tell anyone off in such a way as to make the object of her wrath want to shrivel up and fall off the planet, all the while using beautiful language which contains not one bit of profanity.  The characters in this story are also lovable and hilarious even with all their flaws:  the narrow-minded and antagonistic Mrs. and Mr. Bennett, the cunning Mr. Wiccam, and my favorite of all characters--the youngest sister Lydia.<br />The language contained in this novel is not an obstacle to reading it but is instead an absolute delight.  If you have any sense of humor and romance whatsoever you will fall in love with these flawed characters and their absurd predicaments.  Definitely a quick and enchanting read that made me laugh aloud!	2003-01-15
US	44135518	R2GAVL236AX86N	0671021001	785191741	She's Come Undone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	My very favorite book	This is my favorite book in the whole wide world, and I have read a lot.  I was an English major in college and I've read all (or at least most) of the greats, from Shakespeare to Hemingway to Joyce to Steinbeck.  I just fell in love with this book from my first reading of it four years ago.  Each time I reread this book, I find something new about it to love.<br />Why is this book so wonderful, you may ask?  Simply put:  it's Dolores Price.  What a wonderfully crafted, believable, haunted young woman.  Dolores endures a brutal and lonely childhood, a painfully isolated adolescence, and a complete mental and emotional breakdown in early adulthood.  Nonetheless, she prevails to become a loving and loved woman despite having more than her share of hardships.<br />In addition to Dolores, this book is jam packed with dozens of memorable and multi-dimensional who are depicted with both brutal honesty and loving care.  Her no-nonsense grandmother, weak but well-intentioned mother, and frustrated and despairing father create the core of her dysfunctional family.  I found something to love and hate about all three of these characters.  Also wonderfully depicted are Mr. Pucci, the high school guidance counselor, Dolores's cruel and self-absorbed husband Dante, and her horrible college roommate Kippy Strednicki.  Even the smallest characters in this book were created with care and meticulous attention to detail:  the completely nasty &quot;D.P.&quot; twins Stacia and Rosalie Pysyk, the sad, lonely, and defeating janitor Dottie, the wonderful hippy wallpaper man and his inspiring family.<br />This book can be uproriously funny at times and can break your heart at other times.  I read this story aloud to my husband on a cross-country road trip and could barely get through certain sections.  Dolores Price lives through hell and survives in one piece on the other side.  A truly wonderful story that I have reread 15 times and always hated to see end.	2003-01-14
US	44135518	RP9I44714NZ7H	1586214608	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Author needs to work on writing dialogue	The idea behind this book's alleged plot could have been interesting, if contrived.  Tom Langdon is forced to travel cross-country via train due to a &quot;misunderstanding&quot; at the airport.  Along the way, he meets his ex-girlfriend, who walked out on him many years ago on Christmas Eve when the two were reporters together in Tel Aviv.  He also meets many other characters that are supposed to be endearing, from fellow passengers to train staff to a hotshot Hollywood director.<br />So far, so good.  But the characters are never developed, and their dialogue is abysmal!  Especially with his women characters, nothing they say is funny, and often the writing made me cringe with embarassment for the author.  The black women character's dialogue made them sound like caricatures--complete with &quot;honey chile&quot;s and repeated references to Aretha Franklin.  It bordered on insulting.  <br />Even worse was Tim Matheson's ridiculous reading of this insipid tale.  He gave all women characters a southern accent.  The worst was his treatment of a little boy named Oscar.  He lisped so much I almost could see spit coming out of my car radio as I drove and listened to this seemingly endless Christmas &quot;drama&quot;.<br />I give the author credit for his love of train travel--that love shines through in this book and is its one bright spot.  Otherwise though, I advise Mr. Baldacci to attend a writer's clinic on dialogue!  Try thinking about how people actually talk and go from there.  With dialogue as bad as that in &quot;The Christmas Train&quot;, you will never write a decent novel.	2002-12-30
US	44135518	R3OLOUVRRB5XFE	0385491808	148593745	Crooked Little Heart: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Plot too thin to sustain length of novel	This book would have made a great short story.  Thirteen-year-old Rosie Ferguson and her doubles partner Simone rule the world of country club tennis.  However, faced with insecurities regarding the death of her father, her mother's crippling depression, and her socially akward ways, Rosie begins cheating at the game she loves.  When Simone becomes pregnant, Rosie is even more alone.<br />While a good idea for a story, the novel is told too much from the perspective of Elizabeth, Rosie's mother who is still grieving over the death of her husband some 7 years earlier.  The novel takes place in the wealth country club world of the San Francisco suburbs, and has a very pretentious quality.  This is the book's biggest flaw.  Elizabeth's best friends are all single, without children of their own, who make such statements as \\"Rosie is God.\\"  All the while they seem far too self-absorbed to have children or a family of their own.  Another phrase the characters in this book use often is \\"I need you to _____\\" (fill in the blank).  The characters in this book--including Elizabeth and Rosie--think far too much about what they need and not enough about what others may need them to do.  At least Rosie, at age 13, has an excuse.<br />There were interesting elements in this story.  Rosie's adolescent insecurities were easy for me to relate to--I think most people can identify with feeling left out or somehow not quite right when they were in junior high and high school.  Elizabeth herself was not entirely unsympathetic; she loves Rosie and walks the tightrope of wanting to protect her while knowing that she must also let go.  Overall, though, the story was far too drawn out.  The plot regarding Rosie was enough--I did not appreciate the excessive introspection by her mother.  This would have made an excellent short story or a novella that was half the length of this 300-page novel.	2002-12-23
US	44135518	R19SOHAS90WE3	080411918X	832554018	A Patchwork Planet	Books	5	18	18	N	N	I am a man you can trust	This is the sentence that Tyler uses to begin and end her wonderfully sensitive novel about Barnaby Gatlin, a man who considers himself a \\"loser\\".  Throughout the course of the novel, we realize that Barnaby is really no such thing.  He is a gentle, kind man who is still being punsihed at age 30 by his family and by himself for a series of mistakes he made as a teenager.<br />Barnaby is a 30-year-old divorcee with a daughter he cannot relate to, no money, and a dead-end job at Rent-a-Back, an errand-running and odd-job service for senior citizens.  He is the son of wealthy philanthropists, who never let him forget that the series of break-ins and petty thefts he committed as a teenager cost them $8700 and the respect of the neighborhood.  When Barnaby encounters Sofia on a train, he is captivated by her ability not to peek in a mysterious package she is supposed to deliever to a stranger.  Believing her to be a guardian angel, he meets her and begins working for her aunt.  He later becomes romantically involved with her.  What drives this novel's plot is Sofia's aunt's accusation that Barnaby stole money from her, and Sofia's response to the accusations.<br />What I loved about this story was Tyler's inquiry into why society characterizes some people as losers.  True, Barnaby lacks material possessions and has made mistakes in his past.  However, Barnaby's gentleness with his Rent-A-Back customers and his grandparents are wonderfully philanthropic.  Meanwhile, his mother, the \\"true\\" philanthropist, is a petty, unforgiving person who seems truly unhappy.  Tyler's exploration into the loneliness and indignities of old age are also compassionate and insightful.<br />The first and last sentence relate to Barnaby's ability to trust himself, and forgive himself for the transgressions of his youth.  Barnaby is an incredibly likable protagonist and Tyler's characterization of Barnaby's mother, girlfriend, and childhood best friend are both hilarious and poignant.  One of the best books I have read this year.	2002-12-03
US	44135518	RGYKREW397MAC	0452283345	51382138	The Flight of the Maidens	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Only one of the three short stories is worth reading	Jane Gardam set out to write a very ambitious book about three girlfriends and their diverging lives in the summer between their last year of high school and their first year of college.  The setting is England, post World War II and Gardam's characterization of post-war city life is interesting.  Though the novel begins and ends with the three girls hanging out and contemplating their futures, in between they have very little contact with each other.  This novel is really just three short stories about Hetty Fallowes, Una Vane and Liseolette Klein and their adventures during one fateful summer.<br />Which can be a fine premise for a book.  It just did not seem to work here.  I felt that the author really short changed the stories of Una and Liseolette.  Una is the daughter of a doctor who committed suicide and a mother who now runds the local beauty parlor (&quot;Vane Glory&quot;).  That summer, she becomes romantically involved with her socialist milk delivery boy during the course of their long bike rides together.  Liseolette, a German citizen living with kindly Quakers, discovers that she has living relative, after previously not knowing whether all of her family perished in the concentration camps.  Both of these stories are potentially very interesting, but Gardham does not devote enough time to either one.  The characters seem flat and unemotional; their revelations seem contrived and premature.<br />It seems that Gardham's favorite character is Hetty, and as a result, mine was too.  Hetty is the daughter of a disillusioned, emotionally dead veteran and an immature, thoughtless and hypocritical mother.  Hetty's mother prides herself on her piety, yet is having a blatant affair with the vicar, whom she begs Hetty to confess her own sins to.  Yet for all her faults, Hetty's mother loves her, and Hetty loves her mother.  Desperate to escape her mother's oppresive concern, Hetty rents a room in the Lakes District under the premise of studying for her college courses.  Distance gives Hetty the distance she needs to appreciate her parents for what they are and are not.<br />Though my parents are wonderful people, and my mother is nothing like Hetty's mother, I could appreciate being 17 and feeling extremely ambivalent about my parents.  They could exasperate me and even embarass me, and five minutes later I would be reflecting on something about them that I loved.  This horrible but exciting feeling of adolescence is beautifully depicted in Gardham's story of Hetty and her mother.<br />Overall, the story of Hetty somewhat redeems the rest of this &quot;novel&quot;, which is full of superficial characterizations and excessive symbolism.rses.  Distance gives Hetty the distance she needs to appreciate her parents for what they are and are not.<br />Though my parents are wonderful people, and my mother is nothing like Hetty's mother, I could appreciate being 17 and feeling extremely ambivalent about my parents.  They could exasperate me and even embarass me, and five minutes later I would be reflecting on something about them that I loved.  This horrible but exciting feeling of adolescence is beautifully depicted in Gardham's story of Hetty and her mother.<br />Overall, the story of Hetty somewhat redeems the rest of this &quot;novel&quot;, which is full of superficial characterizations and excessive symbolism.	2002-12-02
US	44135518	R1OULQLR4M4KV2	039575514X	584095688	My Antonia	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The best days are the first to flee	The novel's narrator, Jim Burden, makes this observation after spending a perfect summer day swimming and basking in the sunshine of the Nebraska plains and the company of Antonia.  This is the most beautiful novel I have ever read.  In it we are introduced to Jim's love affair with Antonia Shimerda, his Bohemian immigrant neighbor who is four years his senior.<br />Although Jim is the novel's narrator, Antonia must be its protagonist.  Antonia moves with her family to the Nebraska plains in the days preceding its statehood, when each family willing to brave the winter can attempt to make their fortune in the new world.  Antonia's family braves nearly unimaginable hardships, among them the lack of food, shelter, warmth, and faith in their decision to move to Nebraska.  Among her family, Antonia stands out as the most strong-willed, strong-bodied, brave, and loving of life.  Cather follows Antonia's life even as she leaves the family homestead and works in town, outlining the diverging fates of her and Jim.<br />Throughout the novel, Jim's love for Antonia never wanes.  Yet he never expresses this love to her with words.  He remains silently in love with Antonia's sheer joy at being alive, despite all the hardships she has endured.  At the same time, Jim describes his love for the country in which he is raised.  Although he leaves Nebraska to attend Harvard upon graduation from high school, clearly he always considers the great plains of his youth to be his home.<br />At the beginning of this novel, we learn that Jim has married a woman very unlike Antonia, and I think it is interesting to keep this in mind throughout the novel, although his wife is never mentioned again.  Jim's love affair with Antonia is one-sided and idealized; it seems he would not choose to marry a woman like Antonia because she could never live up to his image of the perfect woman.<br />The prose in this story is mesmerising; the simple descriptions of country and the observations on life can make you cry.  At the end of the novel, I felt as though Jim's Antonia was also, in a small part, my Antonia.	2002-11-20
US	44135518	R2MJWL5X9VO4DM	0380730200	809298830	The Giant's House: A Romance	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Plot holds unrealized promise	I thought the underlying story of this novel was creative and brimming with possibilities.  Peggy, a dowdy, lonely librarian who &quot;does not love mankind&quot; is the narrator.  She writes of her attraction to and ultimate short-live love affair with James Sweatt, a &quot;giant&quot; who grows to be 8 feet 7 inches tall and is some 14 years her junior.  She meets him when he enters her library with his elementary school and requests a book on magic.  Attracted to his quiet dignity and pitying his already massive size, Peggy begins a friendship with James, which later turns to love as she becomes involved with his troubled mother and family.<br />What a fantastic idea for a book!  However, for some reason, this books promise was never fully realized.  I felt as though Peggy's characterization as a misanthrope was overdone and insincere; the author repeatedly tells us that Peggy hates people, yet she practically moves right in with James's family, whom she hardly knows.  Furthermore, the author does not follow through enough on what could have been a wonderful scene in which James declares his love for Peggy.  McCracken, while going for understated, wavers dangerously close to boring.<br />Nevertheless, the characterization of James, his mother, and his quirky Aunt Caroline are wonderful.  The ending of this story is a pleasant surprise that made up for a lot of the story's overly slow pace.  Overall a wonderfully imagined plot that had the ingredients for a wonderful novel.  I expect great things from this author in the future.	2002-11-20
US	44135518	RIMXO3I77WRUT	0451186362	40528119	Rose Madder	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced thriller with a touch of the supernatural	I read this novel in one day of endless delays in an airport.  It kept me entertained through what may have otherwise been an interminable 24 hours, and really, that's all I asked of King when I bought this book.  I was a bit weary of the battered-woman-runs-away-and-starts-over theme, as I have read many books with this theme over the last five years (Sleeping With the Enemy and Black and Blue come to mind).  However, Rose Madder has a refreshing twist to it as it is alternately narrated by the abuser and the abused, and reveals the abuser's increasing descent into madness as the plot progresses.<br />Rose Daniels has been tormented by her husband Norman, a strong, smart cop, for 14 years.  One day she is jolted into escape by the sight of a single drop of blood on the sheets as she is making the bed, and the recognition that if she does not leave, Norman will kill her.  With nothing but Norman's ATM card and the clothes on her back, Rose flees to Chicago.  There she finds a women's shelter and begins a new life as a reader for recorded books on tape.<br />She also purchases a painting of a woman staring off over a pyramid and bluffs, wearing a rose madder gown.  The painting speaks to her, and she eventually enters the painting.  It plays a pivotal role in Rose's escape from Norman.  It helps her to escape him, but also sparks a rage in Rose that is evil and becomes overpowering.<br />The best part of this book is the narration through the eyes of the completely unglued Norman, who is determined to hunt Rose down and sentence her to a slow, excruciating death.  As his hunt for Rose intensifies, he spirals ever further into utter madness.  The weakness of this book, to me, was King's reliance upon the Rose Madder painting to help Rose defeat Norman.  I thought initially that the supernatural element of this story added to it, but in the end it seemed overdone and not necessary.  There is an entire segment in the middle of the novel describing Rose's entry into thepainting that drags and significantly detracts from the overall quality of the story.<br />Overall, though, this book was well-written, richly characterized and exciting.  It contains some pretty disgusting and gruesome depictions of Norm's violence.  King's sensitivity to domestic violence also added to Rose Madder's appeal.  This story will definitely keep you entertained and on the edge of your seat throughout.	2002-11-18
US	44135518	R1ITQIA7T3VMJ8	0452283221	87463839	A Perfect Arrangement	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable fluff	I get the feeling that the author was trying to say something really deep and profound about the modern family's dilemma: whether to prioritize career or family.  While I can relate to the protagonists' feeling that there are not enough hours in the day to get everything done, I can't relate to the dilemma of how to choose the perfect nanny.  Most people don't have that kind of money, and even if they did, they would feel uncomfortable with a complete stranger living in their house and taking care of their kids.  Therefore, I lost my ability to relate to this book in the first chapter, about when Ms. Berne said something to the effect of, &quot;Everyone can relate to the dilemma posed by hiring a new nanny; you want someone who loves your children, but not too much.&quot;  Sorry, I can't.<br />Nevertheless, this book featured some skillful writing and kept me entertained.  Mirella Cook and Howard Goldman are intensely involved in themselves--both want to have fast-track careers but also a loving family.  Their absence from the home is taking its toll on their two children:  Pearl, a five-year-old pill (I hate the word &quot;brat&quot;, but...) and Jacob, a mute three-year-old with serious developmental problems.  Enter Randi, the nanny, who cleans, cooks, sews, and bonds with the children, especially Jacob.  Soon Mirella and Howard fear that Randi has become too close with the kids, but as their marriage falls apart, they rely on Randi's assistance more than ever.<br />There is some excellent foreshadowing in this story that somehow is never exactly realized.  Randi's past is set up to be some amazing revelation, but is less than shocking.  Despite the somewhat disappointing conclusion, the tale of the Cook-Goldman's greed was strangely compelling.  I couldn't help but feel that in some ways they got what they deserved; who else was going to bond with their seriously troubled children if they were too busy to do it?  I am a woman with a career; in fact, I am a lawyer like Mirella.  However, I'd like to think that if my children so desperately needed some extra attention and care I would be the one to give it to them.  Instead, Mirella continued to work untl 7 pm at the office, and bring home three hours of work to do at night.  Simply put, it was hard to like these protagonists, but easy to read this book if you allowed yourself the proper frame of mind: the story is fluffy, occasionally scary and an interesting look into the lives of the rich and selfish.	2002-10-22
US	44135518	R35871SHAL4TCC	0515093025	615583241	Compromising Positions	Books	4	17	18	N	N	So good I wished it were longer	I bought this book after listening to its sequel, \\"Long Time, No See\\" on tape on my daily commute to work.  Like its sequel, \\"Compromising Positions\\" centers around the life and love interests of Judith Singer.  In this book, Judith is in her mid-thirties, a bored housewife with a charming house and less-than-charming dud of a husband.  Though the plot of this novel is Judith's involvement in a homicide investigation, I found that the real story was in Judith's marital dilemma.  What do you do when you are a bright educated young woman who loves her children but longs for a career and adult companionship?  What do you do when your husband works long hours, fails to provide you with the companionship you seek, tells you you've gotten fat, and treats you like the maid?  In Judith's case, you have an affair with the lieutenant in charge of the murder investigation.<br />Judith's investigation into Dr. Bruce Fleckstein's murder is cleverly written and filled with twists and turns.  It was interesting, but not the best part of this wonderful story.  I appreceiated the author's humor, and her wonderful characterization of Judith, her self-righteous husband Bob, her wickedly clever best friend Nancy Miller, and her law and order lover, Nelson Sharpe.  This book left me wanting more.  I identified with Judith immensely despite the fact that I do not yet have children and I work outside the home.  Read this book for its deft humor, clever mystery and immensely likeable heroine.	2002-10-21
US	44135518	R1JEC0G5N777K5	0439136369	667539744	Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Harry Potter at his best!	I have now read books one through three in this magical series, and this is the best by far.  While I loved the creative setting and descriptions of magic as much as the actual plot in the first two books, in this one I found the plot regarding the escaped prisoner of Azkaban (the wizard prison) to be more suspensful and more exciting than the plots contained in the first two stories.<br />Harry Potter is back for year three at Hogwart's, along with best friend Ron Weasley and loveable know-it-all Hermione Granger.  Even before he arrives, Harry learns of Sirius Black's escape from Azkaban. Black was the heir apparent to Voldemort, and has a special interest in finding Harry Potter and finishing the job that Voldemort began 13 years ago with the murder of Harry's parents and the attempted murder of Harry.  At Hogwart's, Harry and his friends soon begin unfolding the secrets of the prisoner of Azkaban and his relationship to Harry's parents, Professor Snape and Harry himself.<br />All of my old favorite characters were back, from Professor Snape to Neville Longbottom to the dreadful Dursleys to the various members of the Weasley family.  New twists include the new Defense Against the Dark Arts professor, Professor Lupin, and Hagrid as a professor!  My favorite new adventures include the Marauder's Map and Hermione's secret ability to be in more than one place at a time.<br />All in all, a wonderful, exciting third volume to this series.  Harry is back and better than ever!	2002-10-14
US	44135518	R2JBDYA5B5JW4S	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Book 2:  A Muggle's Perspective	Harry Potter is back!  I read \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\" more than a year ago, and after reading \\"The Chamber of Secrets\\" I am not sure why it took me so long to read this sequel.  I enjoy the wonderful world of Hogwarts so much more than I enjoy the actual story of Harry's perpetual battle with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named.  I loved jumping into the world of flying cars, Quidditch matches, and photographs that move.  I also love the beggining of this book, which describes Harry's wretched Muggle Family--Uncle Vernon, Aunt Petunia, and horrible cousin Dudley Dursley.<br />Because I enjoy the atmosphere of these books more than the action, I was not pinning all of my hopes on a climactic showdown between Harry and Voldemort at the Chamber of Secrets.  If I had been, I have to imagine that I would have been a little disappointed.  It did not seem as though Voldemort was as cleverly disguised as he was in Book 1, or that the author did as much to build the reader up to an exciting conclusion.  I saw the ending coming from miles away.  However, I can't criticize the book too much for this flaw.  It was written for children, and I am 27!<br />All in all, a creative, thoroughly enjoyable journey back to Hogwarts.  All your favorite characters from \\"The Sorcerer's Stone\\" are back, including the Dursleys, the Weasleys, Hagrid, and Professor Dumbledore.  Also back are the characters you love to hate, notably Draco Malfoy and Professor Snape.  However, there are also a host of exciting new characters:  Professor Lockhart, Ginny Weasley, and many others.  I urge you to immerse yourself into the secret world of Hogwart's for Round 2 of Harry's amazing adventure.	2002-10-09
US	44135518	R210WMZ6EQ82HW	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	2	18	23	N	N	Creative idea with problematic execution	This book received a lot of pre-publication hype.  I was intrigued by the description of the plotline.  Upon reading the novel, I am still convinced that the underlying story was extremely creative, but Sebold's storytelling was lackluster and full of opportunities that she allowed to pass her by.<br />Susie (Salmon, like the fish) is brutally raped and murdered by her neighbor, Mr. Harvey in the first chapter.  Susie then narrates her tale from heaven, which is portrayed as a bleak, lonely place.  The heaven described by Sebold centers around material possessions, but Susie lacks the ability to interact for any extended period of time with her fellow deceased loved ones.<br />Nevertheless, Susie watches in isolation as her family, schoolmates, friends, and murderer react in the period following her murder.  Her parents' marriage falls apart, her sister becomes tough and prematurely mature, and a classmate she hardly knew becomes obsessed with her, having felt Susie leave Earth as she ascended to heaven.  Meanwhile, Mr. Harvey successfully hides her body and eludes suspicion by everyone except Susie's father.<br />Because Susie is separated from her family by Heaven, her description of events lacks an emotional quality and too often, her narration seems detached and heavy-handed.  For the most part, the characters are uncompelling, including Susie herself.  Perhaps the most compelling character is Mr. Harvey.  The author alludes to his violent, brief childhood but does not follow through.  The character of Susie's mother comes off as selfish, cold, and completely unsympathetic.  Her affair with a police officer investigating her case is also problematic.  The officer's loneliness following his wife's suicide is also referenced but again quickly dropped.<br />What creativity for Ms. Sebold to come up with the idea of the narrator following her family on Earth following her murder.  However, this book suffered from the author's self-indulgence and indecision.  Initially, the book seems to want to focus on the emotions of Susie's family.  Later, it seems to focus on the suspicion of and hunt for Susie's killer.  Either way, incredible loose ends are left hanging at the end of the book.  I felt unsatisfied with the resolution of Mr. Harvey and with the resolution of Susies' parents' relationship.  Like many much-hyped books, this was a disappointment.  It was especially disappointing because it could have been so good.	2002-08-29
US	44135518	RDY0ZYR7B369C	038533494X	237199137	Sometimes I Dream in Italian	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The love/hate relationship with one's family...	I bought this book in an airport and finished it before my plane ride ended. It was an easy, quick read that kept me highly entertained. That is not to say that the book was mere fluff. It is divided into two sections: the narrator's childhood and adulthood. Both sections deal primarily with Angel's parents' impact on her and her sister, Lina. Angel's mother is portrayed as thrifty to the point of miserly, preoccupied with death, and increadibly overbearing toward everyone in her life, especially her two daughters. The story of her mother at the Statue of Liberty and the butcher shop were hilarious. Just as integral to the story, however, was the sadness that permeated the sisters' lives as a result of their inability to have a closer relationship with their mother and father.<br />Some of the reviewers have commented that the characters in this story are completely unsympathetic and one-dimensional. I disagree. Angel seems like a normal, lonely woman who is simultaneously facing turning thirty, being still single, and her parents' mortality. Her mother, while riddled with unattractive qualities, is largely motivated by a desire to raise successful, productive and strong daughters. True, her methods are sometimes questionable, but I think it's the story's realism that makes it humorous. I think everyone can relate to having mixed emotions toward their families. Ciresi's story will make you laugh out loud but also occasionally cringe with recognition.	2002-08-28
US	44135518	R31KOLVDJUMT8E	B00006F7LA	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect prose weaves tapestry connecting lives of Appalacia	My description of this novel will not do it justice.  Kingsolver has been steadily perfecting her prose from \\"The Bean Trees\\" through \\"The Poisonwood Bible\\".  Here, through beautiful dialogue and magical imagery, she tells three different tales of lives--human and non-human--interconnected in the Zebulon Forest.<br />Kingsolver's novel begins with a description of Deanna, a reclusive biologist working as a forest inspector.  She is a comfortable, 47-year-old misanthrope, preferring coyote to man, and the companionship of non-human animals, especially predators, above all else.  Enter Eddie Bondo:  a 28-year-old sheep rancher from Wyoming bent on hunting coyotes.  Deanna and Eddie share a passionate, but adversarial romance over the course of the summer.<br />During the same summer, at the end of the Zebulon Forest, Lusa Maluf Landowski loses her new husband in a truck accident.  She is left with the family farm she never wanted to begin with, and the task of somehow finding her place in his close-knit family of sisters, who distrust outsiders generally and the Muslim/Jewish scientist Lusa particularly.<br />Down the road, Garnett Walker is engaged in his life's work:  developing a new species of chestnut tree that can withstand blight and produce wood sturdy enough to witness the progress of many generations.  A lifelong farmer himself, he describes his lifelong exasperation with Nannie Rawley, an organic apple farmer who had a baby out of wedlock many years ago, who is embraced by the townfolk despite her unconventionality--or perhaps because of it.<br />Through family ties, chances of acquaintance and common histories, these three stories are intricately interwoven despite their characters' limited interaction with each other during the course of the novel.  Kingsolver's theme is the connection people have to each other through happenstance and fortune.  Her larger theme is the connection people and all animals have to the earth.  People are only one form of life,sharing the earth with so many.  A single predator in a world of plants and animals, cities and countries, forests and farms.<br />Read this novel not only for its message, but for the beautiful language.  Kingsolver's description of a luna moth is so glorious it makes you want to cry.  She will make you want to open your eyes and give every honeysuckle, snake, bird, and coyote its due.	2002-08-20
US	44135518	R813707DBJ1TJ	0452281032	825719637	The Mammy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Pure escapism	This novel was a joy to read.  The protagonist and her seven children were likable, the descriptions of Dublin in the 60's were vivid and I especially enjoyed it when Agnes whacked her daughter's schoolteacher, Sister Magdalene, in the face with a cucumber for cutting her daughter's \\"fringe\\" (bangs) off.  Even better, the judge who hears the assault charges takes Agnes's side, presumably because he could relate to Cathy's dilemma with the nuns.<br />While I enjoyed the story for what it was, I couldn't help but think of another Irish writer, Roddy Doyle.  \\"The Mammy\\" had likable enough characters, but they lacked the depth of the characters created by Roddy Doyle. O'Carroll created so many children in the Browne family, but the only ones the reader really got to know were Mark and Cathy.  Perhaps if the novel had been a bit longer, we could have followed some of their escapades as well.<br />All in all, though, the story is a good one.  Agnes is tough, loveable, and humorously naive in the ways of the world.  She does just fine on her own after her no-good husband, Redser, gets hit my a delivery truck.  I will definitely pick up the Chisellers and the Granny to follow the Browne family as they grow up.	2002-07-11
US	44135518	R196S6OJYILN7Y	0679751521	523621984	Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil: A Savannah Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Delightful stroll down Oglethorpe Avenue	I picked this book up initially because I am a lawyer, and I was interested to find out how it happened that Jim Williams was tried for one murder four different times.  However, I soon found out that this is probably the least compelling aspect of this book.  While the trials are indeed fascinating, the real meat of the story is in the characterization of Savannah!<br />The author moved down to Savannah because he was enchanted by the tree lined streets and huge, graceful old homes, as well as its boast that it was the most hospitable city in the world.  Soon he was enmeshed in both the best and worst Savannah has to offer.  When you read this book, you feel as though you have met each of the characters.  My favorites are Minerva, the voodoo priestess in whom Williams places all of his confidence for trial success, and Chablis, the flamboyant singer and transvestite.  I especially enjoyed the description of Chablis's outlandish behavior at the black debutante ball.<br />These are only two of a host of fascinating characters.  The City of Savannah itself is the most major character of all in Berendt's story.  Savannah lures visitors in with its boasts of hospitality, but it won't let them stay too long.  It chooses to remain a mysterious Southern lady, isolated from the rest of the world by geography, history, and philosophy.	2002-07-08
US	44135518	R2FDWL3W9OYAJ7	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	10	11	N	N	A light summer read--don't buy it if you are expecting more	John Grisham sure has a good gig.  He pumps out books once a year or so, according to a loosely-followed formula, and rakes in millions.  Okay, so great literature it's not, but the formula works enough to keep his readers entertained.  And really, that's all I am asking when I pick up one of his books.<br />This book has a single, uncomplicated plot line.  Professor Ray Atlee responds to his dying father's summons to return home to discuss his will.  When Ray arrives, his father is dead and there are millions of unaccountable dollars stashed away in his house.  Ray decides to hide the money away, not alerting his ne'er do well, substance-addicted brother Forrest as to its existence because he fears Forrest would blow all the money and kill himself in the process.  However, someone knows about the money and begins tormenting Ray to get it back.<br />The plot twists were entertaining, and I liked how the loose ends were neatly wrapped up in the end.  One of the most interesting parts of the book for me was the description of small-town legal life.  As a former small-town attorney myself, I could relate to the nepotism and gossip.<br />You could easily read this book in an afternoon.  If you're looking a quick mystery, you won't be sorry you did.	2002-06-17
US	44135518	R1I7QED7092SPI	0811832406	166046245	The Distant Land of My Father	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Pass this book onto your parents	This is the best novel I have read in years.  It explores the themes of betrayal and forgiveness, commitment and impulse, and most importantly, the enduring love that exists between a parent and child.<BR>The early part of this book is set in Shanghai in the 1930's.  Anna lives there with her parents--Joseph, the son of missionaries, now a smuggler and millionaire, and Genivieve, the composed and graceful beauty.  When Shanghai is taken over by the Japanese at the beginning of the Second World War, Anna and Genevieve escape to California, while Joseph cannot bear to part with the city he loves.  Again and again he choses Shanghai over his family, and Anna resolves never to let him into her life again.  But when Anna is an adult, he reappears and she reevaluates her resolution to shut her father out.<BR>This book was magical.  Anna's relationship with her mother is every bit as compelling and complex as her relationship with her father.  What I really felt this novel stood for is the proposition that your parents' love guides your life from the cradle to the grave, long after they are gone.  To me, one passage in the book stands out more than all others.  Anna says, \\"My parents have been gone for more than 20 years, and every year I feel their love more strongly.\\"  I can't even write about it now without tears coming to my eyes.<BR>The writing is so beautiful and the imagery of Shanghai is so rich.  Also particularly beautiful is Caldwell's description of the various gardens that play a role in her story.  This is a book to be read slowly, savored, and then passed on to your mother, father or child.	2002-06-10
US	44135518	R3PSSYVFFA4CBU	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Slow start	I read the jacket of this book, and my curiousity was immediately piqued.  I like historical fiction, and the plot description seemed to contain all the elements of a page turner.  Essentially, Mary is kicked out of her meager home by her mother when she is 15, after she learns Mary is pregnant.  Mary sacrificed her virginity to a slimy street merchant who offered to give her a ribbon in exchange for the use of her body.  Once on the streets, Mary became a full-time prostitute and was befriended by Doll Higgins, a beautiful but scarred, worldly prostitute of 20.<br />Unfortunately, the beginning of this book left me flat.  The character of Mary's mother and even the character of Doll were not well-developed.  I felt as though Donoghue was telling rather than showing what these characters were like.  There is no indication of why Mary's mother is so hardened and cruel.  Likewise, why is the hard-as-nails prostitute, whose motto is \\"Every girl for herself\\" suddenly downright motherly to Mary?<br />When Mary becomes ill, she seeks shelter in a house of penitence on the advice of Doll.  This part of the book drags as well, as Mary expresses boredom and outrage with the hypocricy and monotony of the shelter.  I could relate to her boredom.  Fortunately, the book takes a dramatic turn for the better when Mary escapes to Monmouth and enters the service of Jane Jones, a former friend of her mother's.  Mrs. Jones takes an immediate liking to the girl, and ignores all the signs of Mary's past (and present.)<br />The characters in Monmouth were much more developed than those of London.  Mrs. Jones had led a lonely, disappointing life, and longed for a confidante.  Things begin well in Monmouth, but as expected, take a serious downward spiral into corruption and murder.  By the end of the book, I finally had a sense of why Mary acted as she did.<br />All in all, I wouldn't reread this book, but it was enjoyable once I got past the slow start.	2002-05-22
US	44135518	R2EVYU5DCQWGNY	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Slow start	I read the jacket of this book, and my curiousity was immediately piqued.  I like historical fiction, and the plot description seemed to contain all the elements of a page turner.  Essentially, Mary is kicked out of her meager home by her mother when she is 15, after she learns Mary is pregnant.  Mary sacrificed her virginity to a slimy street merchant who offered to give her a ribbon in exchange.  Once on the streets, Mary became a full-time prostitute and was befriended by Doll Higgins, a beautiful but scarred, worldly prostitute of 20.<br />Unfortunately, the beginning of this book left me flat.  The character of Mary's mother and even the character of Doll were not well-developed.  I felt as though Donoghue was telling rather than showing what these characters were like.  There is no indication of why Mary's mother is so hardened and cruel.  Likewise, why is the hard-as-nails prostitute, whose motto is \\"Every girl for herself\\" suddenly downright motherly to Mary?<br />When Mary becomes ill, she seeks shelter in a house of penitence on the advice of Doll.  This part of the book drags as well, as Mary expresses boredom and outrage with the hypocricy and monotony of the shelter.  I could relate to her boredom.  Fortunately, the book takes a dramatic turn for the better when Mary escapes to Monmouth and enters the service of Jane Jones, a former friend of her mother's.  Mrs. Jones takes an immediate liking to the girl, and ignores all the signes of Mary's past (and present.)<br />The characters in Monmouth were much more developed than those of London.  Mrs. Jones had led a lonely, disappointing life, and longed for a confidante.  Things begin well in Monmouth, but as expected, take a serious downward spiral into corruption and murder.  By the end of the book, I finally had a sense of why Mary acted as she did.<br />All in all, I wouldn't reread this book, but it was enjoyable once I got past the slow start.	2002-05-22
US	44135518	R34JGE6ICNH3JI	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	43	47	N	N	Congo through the eyes of five keen-eyed women	I have found that an author who can both tell an amazing personal story and simultaneously educate her readers about historical events is very rare.  Here, Kingsolver succeeds tremendously.<BR>In 1959, a Baptist minister named Nathan Price takes his wife and four blonde, blue-eyed daughters into the Belgian Congo to spread the glorious news--that Jesus Christ is bengala!  Bengala is the word that can mean both &quot;precious and dear&quot; as well as &quot;poisonwood&quot; in the language of the townfolk of Kilanga, depending on where you place the accents in the word.  Of course, when preaching, Nathan gets it wrong and thereby tells his reluctant congregants that Jesus Christ is the poisonwood tree--a tree that burns your skin and thereby brings misery to those who touch it.<BR>This metaphor is apt; the Price family is a disaster in the Congo.  The story is alternately narrated by Nathan's wife, Orleanna, and his four daughters.  The book touches on many themes--humans as just one form of life in the world; the inherent balance of nature; forgiveness and acceptance; and the evils that well-meaning foreigners can inflict on foreign lands.  <BR>The most compelling part of this book to me, though, was the relationship of these five women to each other and to the Congo.  Orleanna and each of her daughters illustrates a different perspective as to their almost unimaginable lives in the Congo.  Rachel is portrayed as being obsessed with material things, longing for soda, dances, and being popular back in Bethlehem, Georgia.  Leah is Adah's twin who seeks for and never acheives her father's approval, so she comes to rely on herself.  Adah was harmed by Leah in the womb, so she cannot walk straight and does not like to talk and blames Leah for her disabilities, but she has a unique gift for palindromes and balance.  Ruth May, the youngest, is remarkable as the only member of the family to elicit the love of the townspeople.  Orleanna is nearly incapacitated with longing,regret, and guilt, and cannot leave the Congo even though she has not set foot in Africa for 25 years.  <BR>The first 3/4 of this book is about the family's experience during the 14 months they live with Nathan.  However, the book continues to follow the women for the next 30 years, against the backdrop of the original independence movement and the cleptocracy under Mobutu.  I found this portion of the book to be somewhat less compelling than the intense story of the women's experiences with Nathan.  However, it was still fascinating to see how that 14-month period shaped the women throughout the rest of their lives.<BR>Overall, a beautiful, overwhelming story--so different from the other Kingsolver books I have read.  A strong story about women who each triumphs, in different ways, in the face of tragedy.  Still more, it is a story about Americans (and all human beings)are only one part in a huge chain of life.	2002-05-03
US	44135518	R1NJYPV3V46HL0	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Utterly forgettable	This was my first James Patterson novel, although I have seen two movies made out of his books--Kiss the Girls and Along Came A Spider.  This novel was a thorough disappointment in so many ways.<br />The writing was terrible.  I felt as though it was written at a first grade level.  This impression was amplified by the fact that each chapter was about a page and a half long.  Especially abysmal was the dialogue.  It is not how anyone I know talks.<br />The characters were so stereotypical they were almost caricatures.  First we have Jill, the stylish, high-powered, control hungry district attorney.  Second: Claire, the motherly, overly optimistic forensic pathologist who apparently sidelines as a physician in every field of medicine--she knows everything about everything medical-related.  Third: Cindy, the ace reporter with a heart of gold, at the top of her field but apparently does not publish any secrets revealed to her by the other three members of her women's murder club.  Finally, the gritty but beautiful and vulnerable Lindsey, first female lieutenant of the SFPD, who chases down a meeting of murder suspects alone, without notice to other cops, and without even a cell phone<br />The plot is the biggest disappointment of all.  It wasn't clever and it did not even seem to make sense.  When I found out who the murderer was, I didn't say, \\"Aha!\\" or \\"I can't believe it was ____!\\"  I simply didn't care because I didn't know enough about the character to feel one way or the other about him/her.<br />There are so many good books out there.  Don't waste your time or money on this lifeless \\"mystery\\" awash with stereotypes.	2002-04-23
US	44135518	R6FDCNMUPCYNK	0802137008	910496991	Pure	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Mixed bag	First and foremost, I think this author shows a lot of promise, and not just because of her age.  Yes, the author is 16, and its amazing that she wrote any kind of novel at all.  But beyond her age, she has some really innovative ideas...I thought it was very creative to not give the narrator a name--it creates an &quot;everygirl&quot; type image.  I also thought the characterization of her parents, and the narrators' growing appreciation for her mother as a person, were remarkable.  The parents are disillusioned former hippies.  As things have not gone well for the family economically, the narrator's father has become bitter and hostile toward Liz, the narrator's mother, using the children as a pawn and lurking deep in the depths of self-pity.<br />That said, there are huge problems with the novel.  Integral characters just drop out of the story with no further mention.  Most problematic is the ending.  It seems as though the author simply got tired of writing the book.  There is no resolution whatsoever of the narrator's relationship with her 31-year-old abusive boyfriend, or of the narrator's cutting, or of her relationship with her friend Dawn.  The narrator's hostility toward her father seems to surface with a vengance out of nowhere in the final scene.  I really wish the author of this book would have either started to tie things up sooner or written an additional 50 pages or so.<br />However, all in all, I think the book is a rough gem.  The author needs some time to develop her style and to work out some of the kinks, but since she was only 16 when she wrote the book, I'm sure she'll be able to do it.	2002-04-18
US	44135518	R1W31443VV3OLX	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Heavy on character development, light on plot	Madame Bovary is the story of a beautiful young woman (Emma Bovary) married to a devoted oaf of a husband, Charles--the country doctor.  He loves her but is not smart, glamorous, exciting, or forceful.  Emma has grown up reading magazines of wealth, glamour and romance, so she falls into the pit of despair when she realizes that Charles is it for her for the rest of her life.  She then has two affairs, and racks up a staggering amount of debt, to make up for her misery.<br />Emma is portrayed as extrordinarily selfish, greedy, and foolishly romantic.  However, there is something in her that did not make me hate her.  She is trapped because she is a woman during the Victorian era, and her options are severely limited.  She acts out in frustration of her limitations.  The character development of all the townsfolk of Yonville are wonderful, showing multi-faceted personalities and underlying motives.  Particularly intriguing are the characters of Homais, the pharmacist practicing without a lisence and doing his best to keep that fact secret, and Charles's mother, the elder Madame Bovary, who loves and controls her son so much that she is extremely jealous of Emma.<br />The plot in this novel is minimal.  But the writing is beautiful and characters complex.  The ending, admittedly a bit melodramatic, made me wonder about all the impressions I had gathered during the first 3/4 of the book.  All in all, not an exciting read, but a memorable one nonetheless.	2002-04-15
US	44135518	R1743DCK5NGATQ	0060195703	926968574	Long Time No See: A Novel	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Clever twists and turns	I don't usually read mysteries, this one was thoroughly enjoyable.  I loved the narrator Dr. Judith Singer's character--smart, funny, wry, but still sensitive and sympathetic.  The book is also filled with a host of delightful supporting characters, including Fancy Phil (gangster turned grandpa) and Mary Alice Mahoney Schlessinger Goldfarb (who offers insights such as, &quot;Only first wives cook for their husbands.&quot;)<BR>The best thing about this book is how the plot keeps you guessing.  When Courtney Logan is first missing and then found dead in her swimming pool, Judith is employed by Courtney's father-in-law, Fancy Phil, to find out who killed her.  One of the highlights of the book is Judith's relationship with Fancy and their clever dialogue.  The ending of the book is great.<BR>This book is by no means heavy reading meant to provoke deep thoughts, but it is highly entertaining. I'd recommend it for whenever you don't feel like thinking too hard about what you are reading.	2002-04-04
US	44135518	R35L19H2E1L8KH	0345436911	441036137	The Dress Lodger (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Gloomy but clever--great ending!	I thoroughly enjoyed this book. It was a very dark tale centering around themes of class,gender medicine, and science during the cholera epidemic in England in the early 19th century. Gustine is a factory worker by day, prostitute by night, and mother of a child with a medical deformity. The nature of the deformity is a heart not protected by a ribcage, leaving the child fragile, vulnerable, and sickly. The story revolves around the local doctor's relationship with Gustine. The doctor is fascinated with the study of the human heart, and there is some scandal in his past...<BR>This book has some great elements of foreshadowing and mystery. It is reminiscent in some ways of Thomas Hardy's writings. It is an easy book to read, but it is also extremely clever and will leave you thinking about it longer after you have finished. I loved it.	2002-04-03
US	44135518	R15VRE4CO4S605	0553211684	590612959	Tess of the d'Urbervilles (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Grim, but beautiful	This is possibly the saddest novel I have ever read.  I have been thinking about it ever since I finished it.  Few novels have evoked so much emotion in me.  Tess makes me feel sad, frustrated, and angry.<br />Tess of the Durbervilles is the story of Tess Durbeyfield, the daughter of poor, alcoholic parents who learn that they are of a noble bloodline and send Tess off to work for her noble \\"cousin\\" Alec Durberville.  While there, Alec rapes Tess and she has his illegitimate baby.  This event ruins Tess's life.  She is no longer pure, and virginal, and therefore brings shame upon her true love Angel Clare when her past is revealed.<br />It is hard to believe, in this day and age, that Tess is shamed and ostracized because she was the victim of a horrible crime.  Hardy's novel is a powerful statement on the questionable morality of Victorian society.  Tess, who is a heroic, brave, caring, selfless woman, is not worthy of Angel because she is somehow impure due to the rape.  Angel, who has lived with a woman out of wedlock and is clearly not a virgin himself, feels justified in punishing Tess when he learns of her past.<br />The writing is beautiful, but the story tragic.  It will stay with you a long time.	2002-03-31
US	44135518	R10DIEKKQT1VUP	0553212451	537609961	The Jungle (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Important historical novel	I am an attorney, and by coincidence I read this novel about a month before I was hired by a labor law firm, where I represent labor unions.  In our current extremely politically conservative climate, I hear a lot of anti-Union sentiment.  To all the people who regularly tell me that they do not see the need for labor unions in this day and age, I would recommend this book.  This book shows what happened to unskilled workers in the days before collective bargaining or minimum wage laws.  It's funny that what this book is remembered most for is the resulting food sanitation laws--when it was Sinclair's attempt to display what is wrong with laissez-faire economics.  He succeeds tremendously.<br />No, this book's prose is not beautiful.  But the story is gripping.  It is the story of a family who has immigrated to Chicago from eastern Europe.  They cannot speak the language and do not have job skills.  The family members are forced into hard labor under horrific conditions, when they are lucky enough to get work.  What little money they are able to earn, they are tricked out of by unscrupulous landlords and lawyers.<br />This novel is memorable for its message and resulting reforms, rather than for its prose or characters.  However, it is a wonderful book that I know I will never forget.	2002-03-31
US	44135518	R23KAB3JB96AJK	0140431209	699219043	The Mill on the Floss (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Difficult beginning, big payoff	I read this book for a Victorian writer's group. I must admit that at first I was sorry this novel had been selected to represent the time period, because I have read books by Jane Austen, the Bronte sisters and many other novelists whose writing certainly draws you into their stories more quickly. However, I am glad that I persevered to finish the book. Yes, there is a very long set-up, and yes, a huge amount of action occurrs in the last 150 pages of this 650-page novel. But read on--it's worth it.<br />The novel essentially tells the story of the Tulliver and Dodson families, who live in the town of St. Oggs, known for its middle-class ethics and narrow-mindedness. Mr. Tulliver is married to a former Miss Dodson. The Dodsons are a fairly prosperous family of four sisters and their husbands. Mr. Tulliver is a somewhat less well-off miller, and a major theme of the novel is the way that Mrs. Tulliver's sisters believe that in marrying Mr. Tulliver, she married beneath herself and brought shame upon the family...<br />The Tullivers have two children--Tom and Maggie. Tom is responsible and hard-working, but has an overdeveloped sense of morality and is constantly punishing Maggie for her shortcomings. Maggie does not seem to belong in St. Ogg's; she is a little wild and free-spirited, qualities that do not endear her to the Dodson sisters of the townsfolk in general. She also worships her brother, despite her inability to live up to his demands. The story unfolds as Tom and Maggie come of age...<br />There are a lot of vivid and interesting characters in this book. I found the Dodson aunts particularly interesting. Maggie's character is probably the most memorable in the novel--she becomes a unique kind of heroine particularly when one considers her goal in life, which is to bring happiness to everyone else while she completely sacrifices her own hapiness.<br />The most memorable aspect of this novel to me is the concept of egoism. While each character's trials is the most central theme in his or her own life, in the grand scheme of things, their troubles are minute and unmemorable. This is a timeless theme, that is as important to bear in mind today as it was when the novel was written.<br />This novel can be difficult to read. The paragraphs can be exceedingly long, sometimes 2-3 pages. There is not a lot of dialogue, as Eliot is more concerned with the characters' inward struggles. Finally, not a lot happens in the first 350 or so pages. However, struggle through the somewhat dull beginning. The ending is exciting and heartbreaking, and will stay with you for a long while.e most central theme in his or her own life, in the grand scheme of things, their troubles are minute and unmemorable. This is a timeless theme, that is as important to bear in mind today as it was when the novel was written.<br />This novel can be difficult to read. The paragraphs can be exceedingly long, sometimes 2-3 pages. There is not a lot of dialogue, as Eliot is more concerned with the characters' inward struggles. Finally, not a lot happens in the first 350 or so pages. However, struggle through the somewhat dull beginning. The ending is exciting and heartbreaking, and will stay with you for a long while.	2002-03-11
US	44135518	R298AK2AACYS2V	0553212184	778751376	Uncle Tom's Cabin (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Should be required reading in all United States highschools	The legend goes that when Abraham Lincoln met Harriett Beecher Stowe, he said to her, &quot;So you're the little lady who started this great big war.&quot;  The impact of this book cannot be overstated.  By showing the kind and compassionate slaveholding families, as well as the horrors inflicted upon Uncle Tom by Simon Legree, Stowe illustrates that the institution, by its very nature, can never be kind or compassionate despite the actions of the individual slaveholders.<BR>The book begins as Uncle Tom is sold to a slave trader.  Though Mr. Shelby, his master, hates to sell him because he has been loyal and Christian, he recognizes that he has no choice based on large debts he has accumulated.  Simultaneously, Mr. Shelby decides to sell a three-year-old boy, Harry.  Learning this, Harry's mother, Eliza, escapes with this boy and heads north for Canada.  Stowe continues to outline the diverging fates of Eliza and Tom throughout the novel.<BR>Tom is sold to a kind family with a nearly divine daughter, named, aptly, Evangeline, who convinces her father to free his slaves.  Before this can happen, her father is killed and Tom is sold to the brutal Simon Legree.<BR>Stowe has been criticized for her racism, which does come through in her storytelling.  She often refers to the steadfast faith common to people of African decent and makes other sweeping generalities.  However, this story cannot be taken out of context and one cannot disregard the era during which it was written.  Stowe was heroic to depict the gamut of possible treatments of slaves, and portray slavery as nearly equally cruel no matter how kind the master.  The fact remains that no matter how kind an individual slave holder was, slaves were still subjected to having their families ripped apart when dictated by economic need or by death of their masters.  By not depicting all masters as ogres, Stowe's abolitionist message rings more truthfully and convincingly.  Lest we ever forget just what it meant to ownanother person, in all its various vestiges, every high school student in America should be required to read this novel.	2001-11-15
