US	44147153	R1QWJNUCNL873E	0316289329	236338073	Hornblower: Beat to Quarters (Hornblower Saga)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	carrying out duty in a challenging environment	Forester brings forth a crisp view of the misfortunes encountered by the British frigate, Lydia.  Its orders were to seek an alliance with a rebel government against Spanish America and to take, sink, burn or destroy a ship with three times the firepower of the Lydia.  The book displays the shrewdness of its captain, Horatio Hornblower, who's calculated leadership accomplishes its duties and does it with effienciency.  However there are twists in the plot that derail Hornblower's orders from the admirality in the Pacific as well as the need to take on board a female passenger seeking a way home due to unforseen circumstances.  One note to take interest in the book is the introspection from the captain.  As the captain of the ship, Hornblower must seem imperturbed even in the most distressful situations in order to maintain calm amongst his crew.  But in private Hornblower anguishes about keeping the crew in control, maintain the operation of the ship, devising the tactics of the battle of maneuvering the ship and determining when to fire upon an enemy ship, as well as other problems that can come up.  He also has a wife in England whom he thinks about.  The female passenger in the book didn't really develop a romantic relationship until the second to the last chapter and the author isn't very thorough in developing those kinds of plots anyway.  The battles were the most intriguing in the book and the aftermath of both battles left the captain with some challenging problems of which you needed to read on in order to find out. <br /> <br />All in all one of the better books in the series.	2004-09-26
US	44147153	R36HCEYOV3TN63	0316289396	236338073	Flying Colours (Hornblower Saga)	Books	3	3	11	N	N	dull episode in series	The premise of the book leaves Hornblower without a ship and defeat in the hands of French forces.  He is to be sent to French for trial and execution.  This book wasn't as entertaining as previous books in the series.  The misery is still a recurring theme in Forester's books and the author also toys with Hornblower's torn feelings between two women in England as well as another he runs into in France.  Hornblower worries about Bush, his court martial, his wife, Lady Barbara, his unborn child which served as the tension in the story.  This really didn't serve the book in making it exciting yet in series like this you'll get a book that serves as a transition from one book to the other.  The story felt like this kind of book.  This book was trying to get Hornblower from the battle in the previous book back to London for the next book.  This book had no plot really of the ongoing battle between France and Britain where one side was trying to outwit the other nor tension between characters the way \\"Midshipman\\" or \\"Lieutenant\\" did.  Considering how Forester wrote the books out of sequence it's probably understandable to have a book like this in order to complete the picture of Hornblower's career.  So Forester shouldn't be blamed for the lack of plot.  The book on its own isn't that great yet necessary in order to maintain continuity of the series.	2004-08-31
US	44147153	R36MHKX6GSOYOG	0140154957	552026536	History of the World, The Penguin: Revised Edition (Penguin History)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not the best reference material	In finding a good general history book it's important to get one that is concise and touches the most important points of the culture, country, goverment, or religion that interests you.  Tackling the subject of world history and being concise as well as being informative is a very huge undertaking and I don't envy and admire the ambitions of the author.  But I also think that a work such as this would be best tackling by a group of contributors and not just one individual because that individual has specific tastes towards certain periods or aspects of history (e.g. war, culture, leaders, etc.)  The book is obscure in its descriptions of events and the writing style is hard to grasp as it doesn't attempt to bring the reader into the body of work.  The reading is dry and doesn't answer the questions a reader may have about a particular point in history.  I tried to read something on the Byzantine empire and the conflict between different theologies and couldn't pick up on the nature of the conflict.  It just seemed like the author would write on and onjust to fill up space.  This book was made to be a reference book but it didn't really impress me in answering what I needed to satisfy my curiosity. <br /> <br />In picking up a history book, don't pick up this book but rather look for a book which comes from different writers who are experts in their specialized field and also reference other books should the reader decide to read further on the subject matter.	2004-07-28
US	44147153	R3JPVTCYMD3HK0	0142002887	584898629	When the Elephants Dance	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Folk tales in the context of Filipino Culture a la Amy Tan	Found out about this book because of the writer who is from San Francisco and did a book signing at one of the local bookstores.  The book is a story about the last days of the Japanese occupation of the Philippines during World War 2.  In it there are tales of the people in the culture that cover the span of three generations including the days of Spanish colonization.  These stories are nice stories about the complex relationships of people that bear a burden of one sort of another.  The stories range from tales of forbidden love, to unwarranted jealousy, to the anguish of letting go of a loved one.  Her narrative style of writing in the first person  brings alive the thoughts of the main character's thoughts and personality as they try to make sense of the world around them.  The war serves as a backdrop of the book in a sense but yet serves as a good platform of bringing these diverse stories together.  Holthe has a good sense of transitioning between stories to make the overall plot of the book stay together.  She introduces the character in the background and slowly brings in the character.  At first you'll think that the person is, for example, a old tight-fisted woman who wouldn't give a penny to a leper.  But as she tells her story you are introduced to their life in vibrant detail and feel what's burning in her soul.  When the reader is brought back into the main storyline you get a new perspective of the old woman and the story makes the reader more humble.<BR>This book all in all is a great read for those who like folk tales.  Perhaps some day there will be a movie in the works for this book.	2004-07-02
US	44147153	R2724YEQIZ159G	0765349671	39666025	The Da Vinci Legacy	Books	3	0	1	N	N	reedits were bad, parts were unconvincing	Heard about the author in an interview with a local sports radio show.  He talked about how Dan Brown stole his ideas for Da Vinci Code and how there were many parallels to his work and Browns--including the mistakes.  This book isn't similar to the DaVinci Code book at all in terms of the spirit of the book.  In fact this book follows in the spirit of a mainstream Hollywood action movie which isn't very flattering.  The motives of the bad characters are unconvincing even when their full intentions are uncovered toward the end of the book.  Imagine a killer who kills just because it's fun?  Or a conspiracy of wealthy people wanting DaVinci secrets so that they can stay rich, not have to work and be lazy?  That motive sounded like a lazy cop out that saved the writer time in thinking up a more creating motivation.  The reediting of the book to make it more contemporary was more distracting than not.  If the book was written in 1983 then don't talk about the Euro or 9/11 because it disrupts with the other points in the story like the talking about Beirut or talking about Russians as if they were still Communist.  The main characters were likeable and it was easy to empathize with them in the story.  The pace of the writing was good in moving the story along and mixing in chase scenes with lulls in the story.  All in all a decent read for the curious.	2004-05-07
US	44147153	R276I40QAINJ2G	0801863163	122525932	Confessions of a Baseball Purist: What's Right--and Wrong--with Baseball, as Seen from the Best Seat in the House	Books	5	1	1	N	N	humorous and entertaining anecdotes and thoughts	This book brings forth the thoughts of one of the most well known and well respected broadcasters in baseball today.  This book came out in 1998 when Miller started as a Giants broadcaster.  His broadcasts on ESPN Sunday Night Baseball and radio broadcasts for the Giants bring out his personality.  He's dedicated to his job and had been interested in broadcasting since he was a child.  His passion for the game of baseball and his attentiveness to perfecting his craft only added to his skill in the descriptions of his broadcasts and brought the feel of the flow of the game while it's unfolding live in front of his eyes.  If you are familiar with Miller's broadcasts on TV or radio then you won't lose a step when reading his book because it is similar to the way he broadcasts.  Miller brings about his thoughts about some of the issues in baseball like realignment as proposed by Bud Selig, to the personalities of owners he has known and how they contributed to the rise or demise of a franchise, and stories about Cal Ripken and some insider accounts from the clubhouse about his consecutive game streak.  Miller bring a good light-hearted folksy humor that will make you smirk or guffaw with tongue in cheek.  It is interesting in the fact that it feels like he conversing with you like you were at a bar and he was telling interesting stories which would be either intriguing or funny.  This is a nice book for baseball fans who want to see things from the perspective of a broadcaster.  The book reads easily and shouldn't take too long to read at all.	2004-04-02
US	44147153	R1KU1EACHGQHQG	0684830485	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls (Scribner Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	good descriptions of the calamities of war	The book chronicles an American dynamiter's mission to blow up a bridge controlled by Spanish fascists.  The book doesn't focus on the war as a whole but rather on the toll war takes on the people living in it.  The main character, Robert Jordan, bands with a guerilla group of which the war took its toll.  One man once a great fighter has now become a hopeless drunk who's only form of comfort other than the bottle is taking care of horses left behind.  His wife who had been beautiful once now has aged and lost her vivacity.  Another young woman lost her parents in a brutal confrontation with fascist forces and dehumanized in the process.  Hemingway's style of writing was a little too wishy washy but some of his emotional descriptions of the things that happened were intriguing.  Two of the more emotional scenes were some of the characters flashbacks of what they had gone through during the war mainly having to do with killing an enemy and being captured by an enemy.  There have been many stories about war and although war isn't something anyone can be used to this book took a perspective that has been thoroughly explored by today's standards.  At the time the book was written there was a lot of censoring where the word \\"obscenity\\" was substituted hence the book was intended for a wide audience.  During Hemingway's time it is understandable how this book can be grappling to an American audience.  But since then World War II and the Vietnam War have pushed aside this conflict in the minds of Americans with their tales of calamity and loss and pretty much reiterating the themes of Hemingway's book.  This is the reason why a typical American reader may not find pathos for the book.  Maybe if the book talk more about Franco, ideologies and the bigger picture of the context of the war then it may be more interesting to contemporary readers.  But this book still has a story that will be valuable for future generation.  In other words, this is a good book for students.	2004-03-28
US	44147153	R249N6YA1WJKX7	0786865962	508511317	Don't Send a Resume: And Other Contrarian Rules to Help Land a Great Job	Books	5	3	4	N	N	helpful information in half a day's read.	As with many business books, the worst books to read are those that sound dry and redundant.  This book however is tersely written, easy to comprehend and adds some interesting job seeking tools that will assist you in searching for a job efficiently.  Although the title says not to send a resume, Fox does feel that a resume can be used as a tool for a job search when either modified and tailored to the specific employer, or used as a follow up piece of literature to accentuate the candidate's skills after first conact with the employer.<BR>In addition to this Fox gives tips on finding leads, writing interview-getting letters, interviewing, and post interview follow ups.  Some of the information in this book is commonly found in other books--be confident, sell yourself, stand out from a crowd, be polite to everybody, etc.--yet another 50% of the book has some material that you probably wouldn't see before or find somewhere else--write a resu-letter, write boomerang letters, and other interesting methods.<BR>The flow of the writing is to-the-point written in simple, absorbant, and quickly comprehensible with information that can be used immediately.  The book has the pattern of explaining something to you, giving you a story to get the concept to sink in, or giving you the explicit details by listing or giving you examples.  In other words, it starts in general terms and becomes more tangible and specific.<BR>Reading this book is a good starting point.  Use the book's tips to help you find your job and pass it around to others to help them find a job or even resell it here on Amazon.com.	2004-03-09
US	44147153	R3RGNQN2D9JDKH	0316289442	128719673	Hornblower During the Crisis (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	3	14	17	N	N	Would've been a good novel but the best part wasn't written.	This novel picks up with Hornblower relinquishing command of the Hotspur and returning to London for a new command.  As typical in a Forester novel, nothing ever goes as planned and action follows Hornblower on his way home from a supply ship.  There are only about 150 pages of text in this story and what was missing in the story were what Hornblower did that lead to the eventual decisive Battle of Trafalgar.  It was nice to see what Forester wrote anyway only because I like the genre and I like Forester's details and descriptions of being in the Service and living during that time.  But this book wouldn't be good on its own.	2004-02-29
US	44147153	R757L48YX88EF	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	3	4	11	N	N	a literal work of mental torture.	If you're a intellectual ready to dive into mounds and mounds of historical obfuscating religious lore coupled with an uninteresting plot then this book is willing to torture you to say the least.  There are numerous passages in this book that dive into the histories of various religious groups (Knights Templar, Rosicrucians, Hermetic, etc.) and some were pretty interesting.  But for the most part if you don't take a strong interest into this material then you'll get bogged down trying to read this book.  The attempt of the book was to uncover a conspiritorial revenge initiated by the Templars and passed down through 600 years and generations later so that they could take revenge for the death of their leader.  They find an old piece of parchment and although it was damaged with over half of the words ripped out missing, one of them comes up with the idea and the interpretation of the message as the conspiracy to take revenge.<br />As this book was originally written in Italian, I wondered whether the spirit and style of the book might have been lost in the translation.  Their might have been element like farce humor or double entendres or other literary devices that might have been lost just because of my naivety of the Italian culture or their sense of humor.  Like the first chapter of the book talking about the Science Museum but written stylistically as if it were a cathedral sounded humorous to me but whether it was part of the author's intent I'm not sure.  <br />I've resigned to the fact of just taking the whole book with a grain of salt and not take this book too seriously as well as the subject material written in this book.  If you've been diligent enough to read the book you'll be amused with the book's surprising end.<br />Like I said before the book's a torture and its probably more understood if read more than once but then again not for the fictional value as opposed to the historical value.  Only bother to read it if you're really interested in thismaterial.	2004-02-25
US	44147153	R55UVPUBN1RH3	0316290467	764983778	Hornblower and the "Hotspur" (Hornblower Series)	Books	3	3	13	N	N	Not the best in the series	In this volume, Hornblower takes command as the Commander of the Hotspur, a sloop which is a small ship used as a reconnaisance ship.  Hornblower has the task of trying to frustrate the objectives of Napoleon's ambition of dominating Europe for king and country.<br />The book is flooded with intrigue and packed with descriptions of life aboard this vessel as well as the personal turmoil of Hornblower.  The book has some bright spots including the side plot between Hornblower's reluctant marriage to Maria Mason.  Hornblower is torn between feeling pity for a woman who is deeply devoted to him as well as the true thought that he is not in love with her.  For Horatio, this seems to tug at him because there are many points in the story that challenge his integrity.  In this book, Hornblower will face conflicts that will challenge his views and force him to decide what is the right thing to do.  Should he choose to suffer for pride or should he succumb to temptation?  Should he choose duty or should he choose sentimentality?  I suspect that this is the style of Forester's writing that will probably come up again and again as I read more of his books.  In a tiny ship like this in the middle of an epic war with a nation with the mightiest army in Europe, the officers and crew of the Hotspur face endless misery due to poor living conditions aboard the ship.  The food quality is poor, there is no proper way to groom yourself as fresh water is mainly used for drinking here, the toil of furling and unfurling sails as well as pumping out water that has seeped into the ship is torturous back breaking work if done often enough, and most likely the crew was conscripted by press gangs led by midshipmen and marines rounding up men during the wee hours of the night.<br />Yet with all that hardship, Hornblower maintains better judgement under these pressures as well as the fear of the well being of his pregnant wife and fulfilling his duty to his King and his ship.<br />However thereare lulls in the story where the technical aspects of manuevering the ship even in a scene with the enemy in sight sounded unenticing.  The book liberally throws nautical words like leeward, bow, starboard, mizzen, etc. to add some flavor and adventure which may have impressed readers of Forester's generation but not of today's e;ectronic gadget driven generation.  The book doesn't impress me but the book has some interesting insights that dive into the nature of the characters as well as how people would have thought during this point in history.  Every time I pick up a book about life during this period I alway am grateful of the technological advances man has made since then improving the quality of life.  But nevertheless one man's misery is another man's adventure.<br />This book is a decent read but read it as a continuation of _Lieutenant Hornblower_ to understand the larger scheme of the plot.	2004-01-16
US	44147153	R1S02V259E38Q4	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	like a modern day Midas tale.	Before I begin, I should admit that I am one of the few readers out there who has not read a Grisham novel and I picked this book on a whim.  This is the first book I've read from this genre of the &quot;legal thriller&quot; and I was impressed with the author's storytelling.  This was a modern day tale of a guy who was tempted by quick wealth and greed.  Inherently the main character, Clay Carter, is a good man at heart, yet he stumbles into the overwhelming temptation that accompanies sudden wealth; fast car, nice house, etc.  The book doesn't wait to get your mind going as it hits the ground running from page one.  <BR>You can identify with Clay in that he was at about mid-career and 31 years old.  He was at a transition in his life and lots of changes were happening, personal changes, and a guy shows up to Clay and offers him a chance of a lifetime.  The lucrativeness of the mass tort cases blew me away and for me it proved informative.  I was also blown away at the sheer hedonism of what people with money will buy to make them feel adequate.  Forget the spending that you see movie stars like J-Lo make because that wealth doesn't even come close to what the tort lawyers in this book spent their money on; that whole part of the book was inebriating.  It's really a moral tale though and in the end everyone gets what they deserved.  The plot seemed &quot;cookie-cutter-like&quot;, a format that would appeal to a large mass market audience, but the narration and the topic of torts was interesting which brought in characters from very different points of view and the author did a good job of bringing attention to the plights of various minor characters who were involved in Clay's cases in one way or another. Frankly, I didn't really expect that many people would actually not like this book.  Some of the reviewers here gave average or poor ratings but I think that they were probably offended by the hedonism described in the book and they couldn't take another get richquick wondergenius and his pompous windbag &quot;friends&quot;.<BR>Nevertheless, this book is a good read and good for someone looking for a change of pace in reading a different genre of fiction.  You'll come away from this book with a newfound perspective of tort law and how much of an impact it can have in our lives.	2004-01-10
US	44147153	R33BH1A73RB4VX	0316290637	75936355	Lieutenant Hornblower	Books	4	0	0	N	N	good dynamic characters amid turbuluent times	The second book in the Hornblower series the action and the tension in the book made living on a ship of the line more exciting than in reality.  Usually serving on a boat, you'd expect to do tedious duties with nothing else except endless ocean across the horizon to look at in the distance.  Couple that with the unpleasantness of living conditions aboard a ship of that age with no running water, toilets, or knowledge about contemporary hygiene as well as being commanded by a strict and almost tyrannical command structure and its no wonder that the Royal Navy had to recruit their seamen by force through press gangs.  <BR>The book's plot tells the story from the perspective of Lieutenant William Bush who had just been assigned to the ship Renown.  It is here that he meets Hornblower and go on their crew's secret assignment only known by a suspiciously psychotic captain who thinks that the other officers are planning against him.  There is a sense of tension between the captain and his officers as well as injustices that the captain inflicts upon his subordinates.  There is also a first lieutenant on board, Buckland, that has served that position for a long time and through his personality the reader will soon realize why he will always be a first lieutenant.  Forester has a good vision of putting characters together and making them interact in interesting situations.  In reading this book you get to see the personalities of these characters take shape and it is these personalities that direct the plot.  About two-thirds of the book was interesting but the last third fizzled and didn't have action at all.  Considering that the book is part of a series, the last third was setting up the premise for the next book.  But if you read this book on its own you would be disappointed with the ending as the climax of the story happened about a hundred pages before the ending.  I consider myself a fan of Forester and I still like the book.  Nevertheless, for a casual reader thisprobably wouldn't be as interesting.	2004-01-05
US	44147153	R589PJN6V567Y	0440180295	837891915	Slaughterhouse-Five (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A message of solace for unsettled minds and civilizations	This book probably is becoming more relevant in times like this where we need to think about why war exists and why it is so common between civilizations.  If it's something that no one wants to happen then why does it happen so often.  In the conflict with Iraq in the Spring of 2003 the opinions are split by two fervently polar sides.  This book was written in the midst of the Vietnam War at the height of popular disapproval of ongoing death of troops and destruction of property which were lost for no apparent reason.<br />Vonnegut I thought took a good approach with the book's subject material.  The book doesn't naturally talk about Vietnam which was naturally going to be admonished by one side and raved by the other or hating by both should the book be perceived as sitting on the fence.  He drew from his experiences of war from the bombing of Dresden to described the relevant events of Billy Pilgrim's, the hapless main character's, life.  The bombing of Dresden was the most devastating operation by the American forces upon a German city.  But its not just this that makes the book good and its not just about the bombing in Dresden as the book spans the whole adult life of Pilgrim.  From the start the book tells you that the book is written in a &quot;schizophrenic&quot; form that bounces Pilgrim back an forth through his life in the form of a stream of consciousness.  As the character experiences a certain emotion or speaks upon a certain subject, he switches into a different point in his life where he's experienced (or will experience) something similar.  This happens often within chapters and yet it is not confusing.  Ironically you'll also come out with a sedate feeling if you understand the point of the author and the quotes from reviewer of the book will make more sense the next time you read them on the front and back cover after reading this book.  The book was entertaining as well as memorable and philosophical.  I include memorable because Vonnegut creates passages that talk about an idea or a thing and that idea or thing becomes a symbol for something.  When the author recalls that iconographic idea its easy to understand the meaning of the passage and its these ideas that tie together the fabric of the plot.  The philosophical part was simply the moral of the book about knowing the difference between what you can change and what you cannot and knowing what to do in either case.  <br />I would recommend this book to college students and people who are uptight.	2003-12-25
US	44147153	R2EJCZR6XXPRKJ	0316289124	254335526	Mr. Midshipman Hornblower (Hornblower Saga (Paperback))	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic adventure reads	The book introduces the a young seventeen-year-old Hornblower introduced to the harsh life of being a sailor and an officer at sea around the time of the Napoleonic wars. The book is divided into ten chapters which are each short stories in chronological order showing how Hornblower develops his skills as a sailor and leader aboard various vessels spanning around four years of his life.  The stories are lively and the focus of the writing was made into moving the storyline by using action and putting the characters in danger or conflict at the cost of describing the scenery or the mindset of the characters, those things that bring a vibrant picture and emotion to the circumstances of the book.  Also the book throws about nautical terms left and right as well as archaic dialogue that is usually not expected from a 20th century writer.  But considering that the writer is Engish I can understand the elitist, forgive me for the accusatory overtones, approach towards the writing style in the dialogues.  Just make sure you've got a reference source to look up nautical terms like mizzen, larboard, three bells in the forenoon watch, so that you don't get lost in the jargon.  The book will be more satisfying and fun similar to learning a new language.  If you like vivid descriptions of a story I would suggest an author like Bernard Cornwall.  I remember his descriptions of the ships to be much more complete than Forester.  This book is pretty good but yet this is the only the first book I've read in the series and not enough to judge whether it would merit reading the rest of the books in this series.	2003-12-22
US	44147153	R2W44LR4OIV0NR	140004085X	777768730	The Closing of the Western Mind: The Rise of Faith and the Fall of Reason	Books	5	15	19	N	N	great narrative and rich background material	This book is a chronological narrative of the events between Greek thought and the onset of the \\"dark ages\\" from an interesting perspective.  Most impressive was the compiling of facts Freeman brought together to build a picture of how history's great minds formed truth and influenced intellectual thought.  If you believe or have believed in Christ and simply have the curiosity of how people who have lived before you believed in Christ wouldn't you be curious about how they believed in him?  In reading this book you'll appreciate how the author speaks with the voice of a journalist and not only describe the idiosyncrasies of the individual players in the book but also describe their influences from predecessors as well as describe how they and their contemporaries either fought for control or tried to maintain the balance of spiritual doctrine.  In reading this book you will definitely appreciate how Christianity evolved as Paul writes his epistles or how the orthodox bishops of different regions fight over the doctrine of God and Jesus.  It answered questions I had like: How did Rome turn from pantheism to Roman Catholicism?  How and why did Constantine assimilate pagan traditions and Christian teachings?  Plato and Christianity seemed to have a similar theme in the idea of the Forms and God in terms of what believers should pursue, is there a connection between them?  Where did the institution of monasteries and nunneries come from?  I wasn't disappointed with the prose either.  The book reads easy as an academic endeavor and yet the reading prose is dense enough to warrant a second reading.  Anybody willing to put some time and effort into reading a subject like this will not be disappointed with this book.	2003-12-12
US	44147153	R3HIAZMR504K4D	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	timeless in social commentary	Although this book was written over seventy years ago in the midst of mass production, the message is timeless.  With the industrial revolution to look back on and the onset of the idea of mass production at the time this book was written, technology becomes the antagonist.  Huxley paints a picture of a future where capitalism makes humankind into just another commodity.  People in this society are manufactured and graded within the hierarchy like chickens in a hatchery.  This book will bring forth ideas of what we as individuals want from a society and what aspects of it are important.  The message is timeless because it applies to how we live today.  This book touches other aspects like sexual attitudes, social importance based on birth as opposed to merit, tolerance towards violence, the use of drugs for recreational purposes (which proved to be prescient considering when it was written) and the important of high art to provoke thought.  This book is pretty small and yet is full of ideas.  The book is terse and the characters in the story are flat to establish the conflicts and move the plot along.  If you've read it in high school as I have you'll still enjoy it many years later.	2003-12-09
US	44147153	R1XAAXF8QAY2NJ	0312263120	201960968	Digital Fortress: A Thriller	Books	3	9	10	N	N	ridiculous premise and simplistic prose	This is the third book I've read in the Dan Brown series and this book is probably a trial run of writing a thrilling novel. This book wasn't researched as much as his future books like &quot;Angels and Demons&quot; and of course &quot;DaVinci Code&quot; so it doesn't have the mystery and realism that makes his books enticing.  The premise of the book was interesting but how the book developed the plot was weak and probably played on the paranoia of sending covert e-mails at that time.  After awhile it was just unbelievable.  Halfway through the book you'll realize and say to yourself, &quot;So what if the bad guy gets what he wants, it doesn't scare me.  The world's no worse off.&quot;  The prose is simple which I think is fine to a certain extent but the flow of the prose was choppy at times when it didn't need to be.  It's fine of the book is describing some exciting scene where action is about to happen but during a lull in the story the prose can almost be aggravating.  <br />All in all the book passes as a decent read yet Brown's skills as a suspense novelist haven't developed yet.	2003-12-06
US	44147153	R3W4OCOBHUDIKQ	0345366239	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	3	3	N	N	thrilling and historically accurate	The nice aspect of what makes this book great is along with the tension of finding the pieces of the missing ancient chess set, Neville researched the characters in this book well.  She merged the plot of the Mirelle character with actual events of the French Revolution to the beginning of the wars between Napoleonic France and the empires of Britain and Russia.  One example is Jacque-Louis David's picture of \\"The Sabine Women\\".  Neville gets to portray Mirelle and Valentine as the women in this picture.  Do a search for this picture and you'll see her kneeling and Valentine standing in the center of the picture.  I don't know how historically accurate Neville made her story in the Mirelle half of the story but everything I've looked up about some of the French characters in the story are true regarding Napoleon, David, Talleyrand, and Catherine to name a few.  If your a person knowledgeable in the French Revolution, you'll be amused at how these historical figures and the real events that occured in their life affected the plot of the story.<br />She sold me half-heartedly on the chess set itself.  Without giving away the ending I didn't feel very surprised.  But Neville did do a good job to keep its secret interesting and give the reader peaks at the nature of the chess set through the various stories narrated by various characters in the book.  One problem in the book was clues about the chess set which weren't clues at all to help with what the chess set was all about and sometimes there was extrameous descriptions about the set that just sounded like babble.<br />This book is worthy for both readers seeking a thrill or looking for the intrigue between mysterious and popular characters.	2003-11-23
US	44147153	R2EW7SWDSRMEYJ	084423933X	680812164	Teach Yourself Better Chess (Teach Yourself)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	use for reference or read cover to cover	This book describes practically all the aspects of chess in a concise easy-to-read format.  Players at all levels can gain insight in many of the two-page discussions about the ideas and concepts that go into the analysis of a chess game.  The format of the two page discussions contain a few paragraphs describing a concept in chess on the first page and a sample of that concept demonstrated on a chess board usually from an actual game played.  This book is an easy to comprehend book that improves the way chess book have previously been written (e.g. Reinfeld) with their dry prose and endless brain numbing lists of chess moves.  This book is an ideal reference tool to keep on hand to either learn new concepts or refresh your memory.	2003-11-19
US	44147153	R354PS4A22ES0G	0471177504	46513881	The Warren Buffett Way: Investment Strategies of the World's Greatest Investor	Books	5	5	5	N	N	one of the most popular investment reads	This book is for anyone whether you are trying to understand investing for the first time or an experienced investor refreshing yourself with the principles of fundamental analysis.  Hagstrom answers all the questions of what makes Buffett one of the most successful investors of our time.  He talks about Buffett's childhood as a boy ambitious to turn a profit in selling Coca Cola as well as his philosophy behind which he makes his decisions on buying a particular stock.  The refreshing part about investing like Buffett is whether you buy millions of dollars worth of stock or just a few shares of stock, you can still use the same principles that Buffett uses in making a decision.  The methods are straight-forward and bring common sense approach to picking stocks.  In it you buy stocks as if you were buying groceries and not as if you were buying perfume.  It is not even necessary to know any complicated formulae about how to determine the value of a stock although some elementary math is required.  If you only had to pick one book to read about investing and burn all the other books I would recommend this book.  It is more informative that many other textbooks out there read by college students filled with unnecessary math and financial theory.	2003-11-19
US	44147153	R2F28FW00FJVSL	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	0	1	N	N	not as much pace as DaVinci Code and sort of melodramatic	This is the predecessor of DaVinci Code, Langdon's first adventure which takes place in Rome.  It has the same elements than DaVinci Code like: a killer doing the dirty work of the master plan, main characters moving from an artwork site to artwork site in order to get clues for the next site, a bumbling law enforcement body (in this case the Swiss Guard) and another round of Vatican bashing.  The parallel plot forming at first seemed like a replay of DaVinci Code but just the same the book still was interesting to read because of the mystery of who was responsible putting the antimatter bomb within the Vatican.  Also Dan Brown did a good job of teasing the reader by throwing in plot twists and using suspense.  The plot twist at the end of the book was kind of a disappointment because it just seemed like one too many twists but you'll be the judge of that.  The book reads pretty easily as the chapters are short and the prose is simple.  This genre of book isn't the type of book that needs esoteric words that slow down the comprehension to the reader.  Buy the book if you enjoy suspense or like Dan Brown's style of writing otherwise I would think that if you're a casual reader there may be a chance you won't like this book.	2003-11-10
US	44147153	R1IHWITRVQ5H5D	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	0	N	N	fresh and innovating recommend to anyone	This book fell into my radar when I saw this book on the bestsellers list.  I became curious about the book realizing that the book had topped the chart for many weeks.  I knew nothing about the book at the time but bought it anyway on a whim.  Once I started reading the book I was hooked and read the book practically nonstop and finished the book in a mere 3 days!  It seemed to me that Brown found the formula to write a bestselling novel.  The book has pace and the characters always are on the move which adds to the tension that is always maintained in the book.  But the real formula of this book's success was the mixing of known historical facts and making grandiose implications of conspiracy and adding believability to the story.  Conspiricies regarding DaVinci and his works of art, the conspiracy of the writing of the gospels, and the relations of Jesus and Mary Magdalene.  All of these conspiracies have real elements backed by evidence and yet are not complete to tell the whole picture.  If you are on the way towards buying this book don't forget to visit danbrown.com he's got a couple of webquests that help you kill time as well as promote other books he's published.  It worked on me because I've already purchased a second book written by him.	2003-11-10
US	44147153	R2ZAFDM8TG3CF7	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	nice book for kids and adults	Jack London has a knack for expressing the human condition.  He uses the backdrop of the unforgiving Yukon and the main character Buck as a metaphor of a child growing up and trying to adapt to the everyday toil of being an adult of an unsympathetic world.  Jack London can be like a modern day Aesop talking about his philosophies of the world.  His character though strong and powerful on an individual basis was subjugated and dictated to the whim of his master no matter how he tried to establish dominance over the master he realized that he will suffer consequences if he doesn't conform to his master's wishes.  Also as a part of the pack of other dogs he establishes control and struggles for dominance assuming that it is the only way to survive.<br />I disagree that this book on its own should be considered a book that is just for kids because I found a new depth reading this book and relate to the story and the author's motivation for reading the book.  London was a person who was bored with the monotony of toiling with menial jobs and decided to look for adventure.  How many people out there in the world today feel the same way as London frustrated with their living condition and need space to experience new ideas and sense the opulent and tangible treasure that the world has to offer.  This book is a look into the psyche of London and any person that longs for something more than 'just another day at the office.'	2003-10-14
US	44147153	R3GOT0FGO9YA43	0142001619	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	3	5	10	N	N	A book that's kind of all over the place, so to speak.	I picked this book up while browsing a bookstore looking for something to read and I remember the author promoting the book on a radio program.  The book goes into how salt was used by different cultures throughout history and describes how they utilized salt and its related products (brine, saltpeter, garum, etc.) to preserve all kinds of food.  Apparently this was important to build trade exporting preserved goods that would otherwise spoil during transport over seas and rivers.  The book is very thorough and even goes into detail by even describing what people did in the form of texts of old recipe books.<br />The writing style of the author was sometimes hard to follow sometimes and as you read from subchapter to subchapter its hard to figure out how he tied the segments together.<br />If you're a type of reader that likes food or are in the food industry it would be a pretty interesting book to read just to see how today's food evolved from generations before.  This book is marginally good for history readers like me although the parts like how ambitious 18th century American fishing producers in New England came to be fed up with the sparse supplies of salt and subsequently leading to the American Revolution was a pretty interesting nuance upon the tapestry of my perception of the war was broadened.  You'll get nice little tidbit here and there of good historical information of how wars broke out for salt of all things.<br />It's worth a read if you're not looking for anything in particular to read right now.	2003-10-03
US	44147153	R1YW0NKV6LU19T	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a good book for the disenfranchised	I would put this book with Catcher in the Rye for books for the disenfranchised.  The characters in this book talks about a &quot;lost generation&quot; that felt a sinking in their souls after the First World War at that time referred to as the Great War.  I would argue that there is a lost generation in every generation which comprises a subset a people that feel no need to mature and live life as a vagabond.  This book brings those types of characters in the foreground with good characters.  It includes a character with low self esteem with a weakness to be loved by a woman who gives just a little attention to him, a character that acts like a jerk whenever he has the excuse to be one, a character that can't make up her mind on who to be with at that moment and a thoughtful character that puts all of this into perspective as the first person narrator.  The book is a nice one for singles to read as it give similar types of interactions.<br />It was hard trying to identify how Paris might have been like or Pamplona because there was some but not much description of the scenery of the two cities.  I mainly wanted to know the sights and sounds of the running of the bulls but the running of the bulls was mainly a background to the main plot of the story.  But I wasn't really disappointed with that as much as the ending.<br />What I got from Hemingway's style was that his stories are best when appreciated in the moment.  You shouldn't try to find a logical progression from chapter to chapter about plot and where you should see the characters going.  The beauty of his writings dives into the psyche of his characters and gets involved in how personal flaws can lead to bad situations and bad outcomes.  It doesn't try to answer how to live or how to fix them but merely seeks sympathy for them.	2003-09-01
US	44147153	R2UIG1PJG1MJWP	0061098620	77138633	Sharpe's Trafalgar: Richard Sharpe & the Battle of Trafalgar, October 21, 1805 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #4)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	simplistic plot but good character interactions	This book centers around how Richard Sharpe left India and eventually found himself in the middle of the Battle of Trafalgar, the most defining naval battle during the Napoleonic Wars.  The book is predictable though, the side plot of Sharpe and a prominent female character is filler to an otherwise muindane journey.  The author though describes a good picture of how its like to be on a ship two hundred years ago.  He describes the parts of a ship pretty well and the sounds and smells of the ship pretty well.  The interactions between the characters in the book were pretty predictable, you just knew that the characters would now do anything surprising, the heroes would behave heroic, the aristocrats would behave like snobs, and the cicophants would behave cowardly.  Despite it all, the book was pretty enjoyable and would probably be good for younger readers more than older readers.  The book reminds me of a hollywood movie that uses a recycled plot with high profile actors.  But despite all of the mediocre shortcomings of this particular book, I got out of it a good impression of a slice of life in the 19th century where all the evolution of today's world came.	2003-09-01
US	44147153	R2X1E89CPZCVA2	0452280028	870933522	Billy Bathgate	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another book for the misguided youth	Its not easy to grow up without a role model.  This book is about the need for a boy, Billy, trying to find himself while growing up in a poor neighborhood in New York.  Billy's character was a symbol similar to the character Holden Caulfield in the book Catcher and the Rye but the difference between the two characters was that Billy was a little bit less in control of his destiny and was led on more in this story.<br />The character Billy becomes wrapped up in a gang led by an alcohol smuggler, Dutch Schultz, by doing menial tasks.  But also he witnesses something brutal with the execution of one of Dutch's betrayers.  Doctorow uses the naivety of Billy to accentuate the emotional scenes in the book and the execution in the beginning is merely one example.<br />Billy is also expressed as an outcast from society trying to find himself a feel like he belongs somewhere.  And that is how he gets wrapped up in the gang and never thinks twice about it.  He most importantly wants Dutch to like him for its own sake.  Other characters in the book are in the gang for ulterior motives from the accountant to the grunts and drivers, that's to be expected.  But for Billy, he just wants to be liked.<br />I thought that the scenes were pretty enjoyable.  It's similar to the book of \\"The Catcher and the Rye\\" and the famous film \\"The Graduate\\" starring Dustin Hoffman who I believe is in the movie version of this book.  Reading this book will make you think like a teenager and might even bring back some memories you might have of being unsure of yourself or wanting to be accepted within a group.  It should take a week to a couple of weeks depending on the time in your reading sessions.	2003-08-23
US	44147153	R2RBB29EMN9CD7	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Amusing and informative book.	I came across this book to find out the answers to two question.  1) How did Billy Beane put together a good team with such little money? and 2) How is it like to be a General Manager for a major league team?  The book does a good job at trying to answer these questions.  You'll get an interesting perspective of how the author Lewis approached the material because he compares the building of a team to managing a stock portfolio.  Beane took advantage of the traditional beliefs of baseball insiders and turned it on its head.  You'll read his beliefs on how he believes the game should be managed, how a batter should approach his at bats, and how to make trades and draft players.<br />But aside from the methodology, I liked the stories about some of the players in the A's organization as well as the story about the life of Billy Beane before he became the general manager.  Lewis gives a good angle about the players personal lives and makes you like the players because he makes them look like underdogs.  Other scouts and insiders had passed up in drafting players the A's picked up because they didn't fit a certain stereotype.   Beane didn't care if the player was too short or too fat or threw weirdly on the mound.  He just cared about men who can play the game.<br />You'll get funny stories and some dramatic stories.  My only regret was that I wished that there was more to read.  It only takes a few reading sessions to read the book and its easy reading.<br />I confess that as a Giant's fan I have only admired (and despised) them from afar just across the bay but I have a newfound respect for the people in the organization from reading this book.	2003-07-28
US	44147153	R1A85CXSIFQ3YO	037550317X	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Well written book	Lowenstein brings a well written perspective delving into the personalities that shaped Long-Term Capital Management.  He brings a &quot;human&quot; dimension to the abstract world of theories behind trading bonds and derivatives.  Mainly, take this book as a story of individuals who charmed Wall Street based on their mystique alone.  John Meriwether, one of the partners of the firm, orchestrates the relationships between his firm and the investment banks with whom he would do business.  The firm eventually manages to trade carte blanche with all of them and not have to make any concessions in return.  This story shows that even in the sophistication of high finance, bankers and hedge fund managers alike can become jaded with the reputations and intellect of the partners who made up Long-Term Capital Management without protecting themselves or scrutinizing the plans of how they intend to make money.<br />     Don't attempt to try to understand the mechanics of how Long-Term made money because the book doesn't try to explain in detail of how they made so much money at first, although Lowenstein does explains the basics.  However, try to understand the context of how these trades exposed them to risks and how these risks took them down in the end.	2001-07-02
US	44147153	R2PU2KL5F6WUCR	039331457X	268079991	Strategy in Poker, Business & War	Books	2	20	20	N	N	Interesting topic but doesn't add value	The article McDonald wrote was well written in Fortune magazine but unfortunately is not much more informative in the 100+ page book that follows.  McDonald attempts to connect phenomena (games, economics, business, &amp; war) to concepts in which he feels cross between disciplines.  However, the writing style of his book swtiches back and forth between making assertions and stating examples that are so broad that at some point becomes unrelated to the whole point of the book.  One example even tries to describe the chemistry of ideal gases and how it's related to pure competition!  I was expecting that the book would dive into deeper aspects of how poker was related to investing as he described in the article but mainly talks about concepts already written in standard college textbooks.  I suspect that McDonald tried to rush his writing of the book and grabbed straws to fill out the pages.  My recommendation is to read the article and not the book!	2001-06-23
