US	44183278	R3IAHCKFWXIT14	0571211941	237950755	Turn the Beat Around: The Secret History of Disco	Books	4	18	19	N	Y	Politics and Dancing	Shapiro eschews the standard chronological format in his book, documenting the rise of US disco with a topical format instead.  This approach sets it apart from the other books that have come out about disco.  He also spends a greater amount of space critically describing the music itself, which also is a change from the other books. (In fact, he incorportates material from his other book, the Rough Guide to Soul, in his musical analyses.)  He is able to embed the history of disco in a detailed examination of US society and politics-- something some other authors have tried but not succeeded at. <br /> <br />*Turn The Beat Around* thus comes across as a serious examination of disco-- both the genre of music and the style of nightclubbing.  It is able to recognize the different subsets of disco that emerged over time (electronic, Eurodisco, Hi-NRG, soul-based, etc), to describe these subsets in meaningful ways, and to link 70s disco with the R&B-based dance musics that followed in the 1980s.   <br /> <br />Shapiro is able to view the discotheque scene from various angles-- from the perspective of serious clubbers who started off in the late 60s, of the singles who took to the trend in the mid-70s, of the US citizens who did not join in and might have been benignly accepting of what they heard on the radio in the late 70s or were dismayed by the sounds of this Sodom-and-Gomorrah of race, gender, and sexuality upheaval. <br /> <br />His book is not as first-hand as the memoir *Keep On Dancin'* or the research piece *Love Saves The Day.*  It is not as much a valentine as *Saturday Night Forever.*  It is less academic than *You Better Work* but less accessible than *Last Night A DJ Saved My Life.*  Shapiro provides a good balance of journalism and criticism, and this above all marks *Turn The Beat Around* as a good volume on the subject.  Unfortunately, it comes on the heels, at least to US readers, of these other books that have pretty much covered the territory.	2005-08-15
US	44183278	R3301LH40BTYFW	046087781X	394669390	Whirlpool (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Irresistible Character Analysis	Although this Gissing novel was revived for critical admiration about a century after it had first appeared to mixed or lackluster reviews, it continues to remain on murky, shadowy shelves, little-read.  What a supreme shame.  It is interesting from the beginning, never flagging in its incisive exploration of relationships.  The novel is essentially a drawing-room drama that explores the autumn of the Victorian era.  Its focus is on denizens who are not the bohemians or working-class outsiders to society that populated many of Gissings other books, but the lower and middle ranks of *society* itself.  It follows the folks we would today call \\"trust-fund children,\\"  people poorly prepared for earning their own way in life, saddled with excess leisure time and burdened with a stringent set of rules about propriety.  They, like their less fortunate fellow citizens, are having to learn as they go along about the modern era and its stock-market and social commodities. <br /> <br />But this is only the backdrop for the meaty aspects of the book.  The glory of the novel is Gissing's examination of relationships.  By scrutinzing a particularly vivid woman-- a narcissist whose self-deceptions clamor to distort every attachment she forms-- the author brings an expert hand to describing marriages, friendships, parent-child bonds.  Gissing shows a psychologist's keen insight into the ways that generations pass on strengths and weaknesses, the way a parent's behaviors will mold the desires of his children's adulthoods.  He is perceptive about how vastly different people may attract one another in the subconscious hopes that they will counter-balance each other's excesses.  He is able to show how friendships can round out-- or contaminate-- the weaknesses in a person's character.  Impulses war with conscious goals in these people, loyalty is set against self-interest. <br /> <br />The fickleness of adolescence, the intricacies of courtship, the successes and failures of marital negotiations-- all of these are brilliantly reflected in the plot.  Gissing shows a masterly hand at dialogue.  Domestic and societal intrigue are drawn into the story as the femme fatale becomes increasingly desperate.  The novel is less overtly philosophical than his better-known *The Odd Women.*  It is no less impressive, however.  I enjoyed the book from beginning to end. <br /> <br />The Everyman edition is especially fine-- it sports a great introduction by William Greenslade, timelines not only of Gissing's life but of the artistic and political era, as well as illuminating explanatory notes and excerpts from the reviews of the 1890s and 1980s.	2005-05-29
US	44183278	R2HM1KHRGE9M5O	1551110172	817022878	The Evil Genius	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Domestic Drama	I enjoyed this volume from Collins a great deal.  The plot moves along at a good clip.  In it, the author explores the issues of gender roles that he examined in *The Dead Secret* and the legal position of spouses that fueled the plot of *The Law And The Lady.*  In *The Evil Genius,* however, the momentum of the story derives not from mystery but from domestic drama.  The players find themselves in moral quandaries that keep getting more and more complicated. These quandaries are partly a result of each individual's complex morality entwined with their ardent desires for love and family life, and partly a result of the nature of late Victorian society and its narrow rules about marriage, parenting, respectability, religion, and sexuality.  It is the characters, and their complicated relationships to each other, that move the plot.  The web of family and friends makes for a great soap opera. The book leaves behind the pot-boiler elements, symbolism, and-- let's admit it-- the purpler and lurid aspects of Collins' more famous novels like *Armadale* and *The Woman In White.*  He turns instead to family dynamics and comic embellisments to draw well-rounded, often contradictory characters.  Mrs. Presty, Capt Bennydeck, Little Kitty, Attorney Sarrazin, and brother Randal-- all push and pull memorably on the main triangle of players while struggling with their own divided motives.  This novel, like *Hide And Seek,* is a nice surprise lying amidst Collins' lesser known works.	2005-04-15
US	44183278	R2DH3NZ0DWHHZR	1844031438	160470346	100 Great Breads: The Original Bestseller	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Fantastic For Frequent Bakers	The author of this book really knows his stuff.  He presents a no-nonsense approach to baking.  This approach seemed simplistic as I compared the recipes to more complicated ones from tomes such as *Crust And Crumb.*  Being a novice to the world of bread production, I assumed that the baking stones, the spritzer bottles, the ice cubes, the specialty yeasts, the obsessive timing would all be required to make the outcome worth it. I was wrong.  Hollywood comes from years of baking and he makes it as easy as possible while still turning out a great product.  Just an ordinary oven, a cookie sheet, and parchment paper.  Perhaps the heat adjustments and use of moisture improve the breads to some degree, but really, what I've found with this book is that I can bake loaves easily and with most any meal-- not something I'd be apt to do on a regular basis with the complicated formulas of the famous master bakers. <br /> <br />*100 Great Breads* contains all the varieties I was looking for:  French loaves, baguettes, numerous Italian styles, crackers, naan, flatbreads, and more.  Everything I've tried has turned out nicely-- tender and moist.  I've gotten great reviews for the Sunflower Seed Loaf and the Brie-and-Basil Wholewheat.  I impressed myself with sesame lavash crackers.  But best of all, Hollywood's baguette recipe is simplicity itself and produces a fantastically crusty, flavorful loaf.  Because its flavor develops from an overnight proofing, I've found that if I make it in advance and freeze the unbaked dough after the first rising, I can easily pull a loaf out of the freezer and have it with dinner several nights a week.  I'm hooked!	2005-04-05
US	44183278	R3546B0MT8O6PD	0486240169	424637816	Eve's Ransom	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Gissing In Brief Form	This novella, at 125 pages, contains many of the trademark Gissing facets:  introspective, thoughtful people struggling to balance very human impulses with a sense of social responsibility.  The protagonist wants to be brusque about himself, giving short shrift to his more developed morality and admonishing himself for his all-too-mortal desires.  Circumstances have been difficult in his life, and temptations and depression always flirt with him as he navigates through a career and singlehood.  Amidst a small circle of friends he gets to know someone he thinks is his distaff equivalent, a woman who has faced struggles but keeps her head above water with pride.  Each of the primary players faces choices that are difficult.  The story does not push forward with an energetic plotline, but rather respresents a character study of young adults in romance and friendships.  Not Gissing's strongest work, but a fine and rare selection for fans if they can locate a copy.	2005-03-25
US	44183278	R82X5XIECHNX8	0805072500	250265753	The Fabulous Sylvester: The Legend, the Music, the Seventies in San Francisco	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Fabulous Indeed	Sylvester was a beloved figure inside his circle of admirers;  he received cautious regard at best from outside that circle.  Now, along comes a long overdue biography, and what a volume.  The timing couldn't be more right, as the US has finally put to rest most of the putrid disco backlash.  In the stores are not only decent compilations of the disco music but also books like this one that reflect the reality of the subculture.  Not the bandwagon that pop radio jumped on, not the Arthur-Murray style competitions, not the faux-glamour suburban nightclubs, but the real deal.  Sylvester was both artist and participant in the disco culture-- singer, performance artist, club dancer. The author of this book captures Sylvester in all his complexity and drives home the important part he played in the subculture that was disco. <br /> <br />Gamson is an academic, which means that he has been thorough in locating good sources of information.  He seemed to have access to so many of the important persons and institutions that played a part in Sylvester's life.  He is able to provide a well-rounded depiction of the man's personality, warts and all.  He does a good job laying out the formative experiences in this colorful life, be it a mother who role-modeled an imperious love of fashion but later derided a child who followed her example, or a church community that would exploit Sylvester's temperament but denounce him for acts its other members could get away with if they kept hypocritically silent.  Sylvester's complicated relationship to the gay community of 70s San Francisco is fascinating.  The author does a great job bringing all the early elements around in the end of the book, showing how lasting the formative events are and how much a person can fill in the voids during adulthood. <br /> <br />Gamson is more than an academic, however.  He is also an entertaining writer and he takes in this book a great tone that fits his subject.  He doesn't shy away from any aspects ofthe life he is depicting.  The sex, the slang, the drugs, the erratic behavior, the fun, the bonds, and the subculture's differing values all sparkle like one of Sylvester's jackets.  There is no stuffy ivory-tower writing here.  Gamson can be as breezy in tone as Sylvester, but he doesn't pander.  In fact, among the disco-oriented books that have come out over the last six years, this volume is as well-produced as that other benchmark of writing, *Last Night A DJ Saved My Life*. <br /> <br />The 60s teen drag scene, the 1970-era Cockettes, the rock-and-blues recording phase, the disco about which Sylvester had conflicted feelings;  then the Hi NRG and activism phases-- all of these are given sharp observation and each makes for vibrant reading material.  Gamson covers nearly all the bases, including the way the drag-loving Sylvester was an open mark for a defrauding imposter.  It was great to learn how the disco albums came about, and what the exact roles of the band, producers, and record-label suits were.  The only omission I found was Sylvester's collaboration with jazzist Herbie Hancock in the 1981 album Magic Windows.  Otherwise, Gamson covered all the personal, community, and musical bases. <br /> <br />This was great reading for someone like me, familiar with both Sylvester and the 70s;  I think the book would appeal to anyone with an open mind who is interested in a character who will swim against the current if he is so created.	2005-03-19
US	44183278	R1JAPOQBGEKFNI	157230913X	658879962	Paradigms of Personality Assessment	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fantastic Project	This book represents a great project in psychology, a return to the assessment glory days of Schafer's Clinical Applications of Psychological Tests from 1948 and, more recently, Hurt, Reznikoff, and Clarkin's Psychological Assessment/Psychiatric Diagnosis/Treatment Planning volume from 1991.  Like these other books, Paradigms offers more depth than the surveys of testing textbooks but more breadth than volumes examining a particular instrument.  It goes a fantastic step further than any other book, in that it offers assessment of a client from five different examiners.  This allows the reader to compare approaches and to see, in ways that are inexplicably rare in the psychological literature, how much assessments have in common across models and the amazing extent to which the various models can reveal the life of the test subject.  A book like this refutes the nay-sayers of assessment and supports the findings of a 2001 American Psychologist survey that demonstrate how psychological testing possesses as much diagnostic power as most medical tests. <br /> <br />Wiggins' book has five teams of examiners conducting assessment with a single person.  Although the subject is not a patient or engaged in behavioral health services, she presents with a rich psychic life and dramatic history that lend themselves to assessment.  She agrees to undergo assessment with each team.   <br /> <br />The Personological Assessment (Life History Interview) and the Empirical Assessment (MMPI)are conducted by a single examiner each;  the other three Assessments are conducted by teams of two examiners each.  The Personological Assessment and the Psychodynamic Assessment are conducted face-to-face with the subject, while the other three are conducted through paper-and-pencil tests and the examiners never actually meet the subject.  The Psychodynamic Assessors opt to forego any background information to conduct a \\"blind assessment\\" in order to show the power of the Rorschach and other measures.  Only the Mutivariate Assessment (using the NEO measure) employs input from a source other than the client, namely, her paramour. <br /> <br />The results of each of the five assessments constitutes the meat of the book.  As noted, there is remarkable consistency in what each assessment reveals and the accuracy of these findings is supported by follow-up material that is not available to the examiners.  In fact, the subject provides updates from three years later, allowing the reader to see how the examiners' various predictions fared.  Collateral sources such as friends provide additional material that puts all the assessment findings in a context. <br /> <br />The five different assessment teams write their own chapters about the client.  The writing therefore varies in these chapters.  This is important, because assessment writing involves technical aspects and can easily get mired in jargon.  The authors of the Personological, Psychodynamic, and Empirical chapters avoid this pitfall admirably.  They use plain language and explain their ideas in ways that are readable.   <br /> <br />The authors of the Multivariate chapter fall prey to reifying the labels of their instrument, the NEO.  They make statements like \\"Madeline is average in Neuroticism,\\" or apply to her various labels from the test:  she is an \\"Upbeat Optimist,\\" a \\"Creative Interactor,\\" or \\"Cold-Blooded.\\"  They never sample her behavior directly, and so they must rely on the subject's self-descriptions which can only come from her own perspective.  They have her paramour also complete the NEO about the subject, but when there are discrepancies in the ratings between the two subjects, the examiners manage the discordances with the dubious practice of averaging the results rather than addressing the differences.  Potentially important information is thus glossed over and lost. <br /> <br />The authors of the Psychodynamic Assessment do an especially impressive job of description and of handling discrepancies.  They find fascinating ways of interpreting the discordant data when they emerge.  They also integrate behavioral observations and examiner reactions into the assessment in ways that are convincing and engaging.  The Empirical Assessment is also impressive; fortunately for the examiner, the subject's MMPI was valid.  The Personological Assessment is essentially a detailed clinical interview, and as such, it does not provide test data but interview statements.  Five self-report measures are included in this assessment, as is a TAT, but the author focuses primarily on the interview material. <br /> <br />The weakest chapter from a writing perspective is the Interpersonal Assessment.  The chapter includes many difficult-to-discern graphs and is highly theory-bound.  The writing style is academ-ese:  highly technical terms and knotted sentences abound. The authors coin new words, and unnecessarily so-- they insist on using the word \\"inattending\\" instead of ignoring, denying, or not recognizing.  In their words, \\"the approach we take to this assessment can best be described as application, at the level of the individual case, of a nomological net developed from the transactional evolution of interpersonal personality theory and a highly generative structural model, the interpersonal complex.\\"  The Huh? factor doesn't end there. <br /> <br />The book overall is written with a great deal of summarizing, which makes for repetitious reading, but Wiggins has reason to be as enthusiastic as he is.  There is so much of value in the volume.  A complaint:  these are not differing \\"paradigms\\" of assessment, but alternative \\"models\\" of assessment.  They all share the paradigm that personality can be measured to some degree through assessment practices.  An under-expressed concept in the book is that most clinical assessments would include several of these approaches rather than just one.  An aggregation of objective, interview, and projective results would only strengthenthe findings that even singly are demonstrated in this case to be impressive.  A highly recommended source for students, instructors, and clinicians.	2005-02-07
US	44183278	R35Y6W4JWTZR36	1900924560	716631571	Chic: Everybody Dance: The Politics of Disco	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	At Last-- A Biography Of Chic	In the wake of the recent serious disco music histories such as *Last Night A DJ Saved My Life* and *Love Saves The Day* are coming some more specific coverage of individual artists.  This book covering Chic and the upcoming review of Sylvester's career are providing the information that many of us have been wading through old periodicals to find.  The author of this Chic book has certainly done his homework.  He tracked down virtually all of the Chic members who were living at the time, as well as relatives, business associates, and affiliated artists.  He has put together an impressive amount of new material from interviews and research and he has assembled a wide sampling of the magazine articles from the 70s and afterwards.  Kudos to Easley for his archiving and interviewing efforts. <br /> <br />*Everybody Dance* gives a fairly complete accounting of the origins of the band and each member, the career of Chic and its off-shoot groups, its struggles after 1985, and how it negotiated the revival of interest in dance and disco musics.  Easley has also included a number of photos from the four decades. <br /> <br />The book reads compulsively in its first half, detailing the young Nile Rodgers and Bernard Edwards, to the extent possible.  Rodgers' fairly haunting background comes as a surprise and explains much about his personality.  The early chapters of the book grab the reader because the author captures the spirit of yearning and the trials of the nascent group to accomplish its goals.  As a reader, I became absorbed in the story, some of which was already familiar to me from previous interviews with the band members. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, Easley's agenda for incorporating the \\"Politics\\" of the subtitle is not well-integrated into the book, particularly after the first half dozen chapters or so.  In fact, after Chapter 5 Easley gives up the introductory paragraph in which he recounts the current events of the day.  It is not until Chapter 13 that he resumes this device, and with each succeeding chapter it is decreasingly successful in its attempt to set a context for the music.  Rote citation of statistics about oil prices and presidential maneuvers is not enough to embed the social aspects of citizens and their entertainments.  This is not a major flaw for the book necessarily, except that the subtitle IS \\"The Politics Of Disco.\\" <br /> <br />Easley tries to punch up the dynamics of the group, apparently to create suspense in the portions of the tale covering the heyday of Chic.  He stretches to do this, overstating the tensions and underplaying the accomplishments of the 80s in the effort to tell a tragic tale that is not, actually, all that tragic.  There was great music created and much success during the 1980s for the group and its members. <br /> <br />Overstatement is a weakness that better editing would have minimized.  The author is fond of using superlatives in his reviews of the group's playing and the recordings-- to the extent that he ends up contradicting himself about which track is the \\"strongest use of strings\\" or the \\"best bass playing.\\"  His fondness of using the term \\"arguably\\" arises several times in each chapter of the second half of the book.  Proofreading would have caught this stylistic tic, as well the rampant grammatical errors such as missing apostrophes in possessives, misplaced commas, and unattributed quotes.  The publisher let Easley down in the editing department. <br /> <br />Despite the shortcomings, the book represents a much-needed resource about the group, and the author has clearly put much legwork into his look at Chic.  His love of the music is apparent and his enthusiasms are often infectious.  Although he was \\"preaching to the choir\\" with this reader, I nevertheless found much of interest in the book and recommend it.	2005-01-20
US	44183278	R3ME4UNGTV2GLX	078681859X	506234393	The Amulet of Samarkand, Book 1 (Bartimaeus )	Books	2	23	41	N	N	Questionable For Youngsters	While I realize there is a large market for these types of adventure stories employing fantasy elements, I have to say that I would not recommend this book for impressionable minds when there are alternatives that carry more of a useful message.  Specifically, I was disturbed by the fact that NONE of the major characters in the tale possesssed any of the qualities that I believe are virtues to emphasize for younger readers:  loyalty, empathy, justice, fairness, assisting others, self-respect. <br /> <br />The protagonist certainly endures more than his share of hardship, but it leaves him embittered, withdrawn, disappointed, and prone to the types of possessiveness and pride that fuel a vengeful outlook.  By the end of the book he never really emerges from this perspective.  He is challenged, frustrated, and abetted by a cast of characters were are even more vile and self-serving, who value nothing of life but are instead motivated by greed.  The bone thrown by the book to human warmth is the fragile gratitude the youngster feels toward the bit player who feeds him.  Otherwise, all is self-interest and resentment.  I believe it to be a bit of nastiness to set up the tale so that the reader is asked to root for someone whose identity is so tied up in acquisitiveness and power-gambits, and who never steps out of the shadow having learned anything of greater depth.	2005-01-20
US	44183278	R1BOXL9F21V1GG	1596742763	901270328	Born in Exile	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Overlooked Novel	It seems astounding to me that Gissing is so over-looked, as he has much to offer readers.  It seems that his body of work is unjustifiably ignored even by afficianados of Victorian fiction and persons interested in the transformations from late 1800s into the modern, industrial 20th century.  Gissing was a writer who did not feel compelled to make genteel his understanding of human nature and romanticize the characters in his plots.  He seemed intent on reflecting the temperaments, divided interests, internal conflicts, fickleness, aspirations, and behaviors of his flawed, realistic players.  He did not play to the emotions as much as Dickens-- Gissing was prone to reality-based turns of events and did not sensationalize the tragedy.  Instead, he was attuned to a more realistic psychology.  His characters' goals AND subconscious motivations fuel the plots.  He had much to observe about social mores of his time and about changes in religion, philosophy, social strata, and gender roles.  Born In Exile, like The Odd Women, is not as tragic or uncomfortable as one might expect from the press Gissing has gotten.  I highly recommend these books for serious readers.	2004-12-08
US	44183278	R2LBV92NWVEUV7	0140040684	566389084	Buried Alive	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Great Farce	Arnold Bennett has fashioned a fine satire that brings to mind \\"Being There,\\" except here the protagonist falls into a chain of events that threatens to expose his talents when all he wants-- Garbo-esque-- is to be \\"left alone.\\"  The novel skewers the art world, artists' temperaments, celebrity, and the way humans view the foibles of their loved ones.  Bennett's better-known masterpiece \\"The Old Wives Tale\\" contained vignettes and observations of humor, but in \\"Buried Alive\\" he proves adept at an all-out comedy.  I'm so glad I found this volume, it shows that Bennett had more than one excellent book in him, and led me to the also humorous \\"The Card.\\"  \\"Buried Alive\\" is definitely one of my favorite 20 novels.	2004-12-08
US	44183278	R144EPGT3OLJS7	0822331985	495960812	Love Saves the Day: A History of American Dance Music Culture, 1970-1979	Books	3	17	20	N	Y	Further Documentation of a Once-Reviled Subject	Lawrence does a good job translating his former academic piece into a more general survey that would be of interest to a lay reader.  He takes a mostly chronological journey through the events of the 70s that pertained to the disco subculture.  (Disco is, even now in the book's title, being euphemistically called \\"dance music,\\" which is something of a misnomer, given the ongoing presence in our society of vibrant polka, salsa, square dance, contra, two-step, honky-tonk, ballroom, and other dance cultures.)  In writing this book Lawrence has done his homework: he assembled the extant written sources-- even the rare ones-- and located participants from the era to reminisce and provide new anecdotal material.<br />As a one-stop overview of disco life in the seventies, this book serves its purpose well.  It is not as academic as Fikentscher's converted dissertation You Better Work, and therefore will be of interest to a wider audience.  Lawrence writes mostly in plain language.  He includes some of the interesting photos and images contained in the harder-to-find volumes like Night Dancin' by Miezitis, and he quotes from virtually all of the older and newer writings, both periodicals and books.  <br />If a reader has already delved into the current books about disco, Lawrence's book will seem largely redundant.  Its focus is primarily on the clubs and the DJs.  The stories told in Mel Cheren's autobiography and in the two disco chapters of Last Night A DJ Saved My Life are here:  the joyous beginnings of the clubs, the inspired DJs, the rivalries, the egos, the drug use, and the love-hate relationships between the DJs and record execs.<br />Lawrence adds something to this genre by recording dancers' and DJs' recounting of the actual *experience* of dancing, of losing oneself in the music.  This allows the reader to see a vivid contrast between the hardcore, serious dancers and the trend-hopping, casual participants who flocked to the discos in the mid- and late-70s.  This contrast has in the past been asserted but until now was not depicted very well.<br />The music of the era is mentioned (and listed in various tables) but generally not covered in depth.  Although Lawrence can take an interesting wide-angle perspective on the 70s decade of disco-- and does so best in the introductory and epilogue material-- he seems in the middle chapters to get caught up in a gossipy mode that seemed more pertinent in Cheren's autobiography.  The personal lives of the DJs take precedence over the dancers' involvement, and these have already been covered.  The symbolic and cultural meanings of disco in the US are included, but discussion of these seems subjugated to stories about the DJs' and club owners' antics.  However, Love Saves The Day is likely to supplant Albert Goldman's Disco as the main reference-- at least for now-- in musicologists' and researchers' work and in general readers' affection.	2004-03-03
US	44183278	RY7BKTT6FLSV3	0553244418	989761267	The Harem Of Aman Akbar	Books	2	1	4	N	Y	Saturday Morning Serial, Middle-eastern Style	This novel is diverting the way a Saturday morning series would be:  it emphasizes action over theme, plot over character, peril episodes over suspense.  The main characters show little motivation, but instead work with various magical powers.  The plot never really endangers any of the primary players, and therefore will not be disturbing to sensitive readers.  The fantasy world depicted is not meant to make any incisive remarks or observations of our world-- rather, it serves to provide an escape from our world.	2003-05-14
US	44183278	RSUA0Q37X1VPS	0802113818	610304499	Salt on Our Skin: A Novel	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Addicted To Love	\\"Salt On Our Skin\\" is a novel documenting an intellectual woman's lifelong affair with a fisherman from the village where her family summers.  The author does a good job showing the protagonist's conflict between the cerebral and the genital, and showing how varieties of love exist in the wide space bookended by the brain and the groin.  The feminine eroticism of the book reminded me of Mary Gordon's absorbing novel \\"Spending.\\"  <br />The author depicts the protagonist's selfish motivations skillfully, from childhood into late middle age.  By showing her refusal to accept her lover's marriage proposal because of class and intellectual differences, Groult portrays the woman's haughtines:  she rejects her first serious lover and chooses instead various spouses and companions based on financial, career, and intellectual considerations.  The novel charts the course of the woman's repeated decisions to ignore her own choices and become involved again and again with the man she deems her cognitive inferior.  <br />Along the way she constructs snobbish, often funny excoriations of popular culture and how the effete-- herself and her husbands-- can lead unsatisfying lives by falling prey to avant-garde trends.  Groult shows how self-serving this woman is by refusing to let her lover go, by causing him extended pain;  the novel also reflects how much she gains by allowing herself to be truly loved.  The heroine actually shows some emotional, moral, and social growth because of the affection she receives and-- finally-- recognizes.	2003-05-14
US	44183278	R2C50EDMHI5DZQ	0374528012	673004245	Cheri and the Last of Cheri	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Love Pierces Ennui	\\"Cheri\\" is the stronger of the two novels in this collection.  Colette's deceptively simple prose records the ways of the heart, or at least the romantic behaviors of the rich and idle who have too little sense of purpose in life.  \\"Cheri\\" begins with the awkward love affair already in progress.  How the somewhat immoral pairing began is revealed in pieces throughout the chapters.  As these disaffected people realize what their affair meant to each, the novel comes alive.  <br />The book starts as a depiction of the rather narcissistic, self-interested duo-- a depiction that in the beginning is difficult to read because of the nearly sadistic egotism of the protagonists.  It evolves into a searching examination of two profligate people unused to applying themselves to any ideal higher than their own gratifications.  What they do to manage their dawning realization that they actually care for one another; why they let go of some of their self-delusions; how the love of each person is formed from the shallow and empty lives they led up to that point-- these are played out in heart-breaking scenes that give the novel its depth.  \\"Cheri\\" depicts a certain time and place-- the French demimonde-- quite well while it is relevant to today's alienated and sometimes jaded moderns searching for, and evading, meaningful connections.  This collection includes a well-written introduction by Judith Thurman that draws a thumbnail sketch of Colette's life and provides background information for the novel's setting.	2002-11-25
US	44183278	R1L855RZFPJGIR	1579651895	941233528	The Anatomy of a Dish	Books	3	24	29	N	N	A Recipe Collection	This volume contains a series of recipes, grouped according to dish.  It has much the same format as most standard cookbooks:  vegetable dishes, salads, soups, seafood, meat, desserts, etc.  The dishes reflect the unique culinary approach of author/chef Forley and most are fairly complex and delicious.  The skill of the home cook using this book would need to be moderate to advanced; the available cooking time, fairly extensive.<br />What is disappointing-- or actually somewhat misleading, given the way the book is being promoted-- is how little educational information is presented.  The volume is touted as a new approach to cookery, based on a botanist's information about the plants that serve as the foundation for Forley's dishes.  True, charts of botanical family trees are provided, listing the plants according to type.  What is missing is any kind of theory that allows us cooks to use this information.  Forley says that it can be instructive to think in botanical terms rather than according to standard edibility groupings of vegetables or according to times that plants ripen.  Unfortunately, she doesn't guide us in any ways to employ this knowledge of plants' flowering types.  She says she has gotten far using this scientific information, but a reader gets the sense she pays short shrift to her intuition and taste buds, preferring to cloak her instinctive experiments in academic terminology.  She does not explain how her knowledge led her to combine different vegetables and herbs, or to build from basics into a full-bodied dish.  She simply asserts that the botanical genealogy charts promote these types of skills.<br />In the end, what the reader gets is a collection of recipes with a theoretical idea tacked on.  If you are interested in tasting the dishes that are served in the author's restaurant, Verbena, or want another chef's cookbook, this may fill the bill.  If you are seeking a theory-driven, educational book about culinary skills, look a bit further-- there are several on the shelves right now, including Culinary Artistry, Healthy 1-2-3, Sauces, and Great Tastes Made Simple.	2002-11-12
US	44183278	R47P2GVNOU1GO	0767909070	691106506	Great Tastes Made Simple: Extraordinary Food and Wine Pairing for Every Palate	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Critical Thinking Beyond The Beverage	With this book Immer provides still more useful information for people interested in making wine part of the dinner table.  Quite an accomplishment, considering her &quot;Great Wines Made Simple&quot; was for me the most useful wine volume ever encountered.  Here, Immer moves beyond the beverage and provides the reader with her accessible theories about how food flavors connect to wine flavors.  For someone like me, someone interested in home entertaining and striving to give a guest a memorable dining experience, this book moves past anything else I've read concerning the wine arena.  <br />Unlike other authors who provide esoteric descriptions of wines-- descriptions they don't seem to realize may vary according to the individual inclinations of the taster-- Immer acknowledges the variety of preferences amongst diners.  She does not come from an attitude of &quot;informing&quot; readers of her Vast Knowledge; rather she lends teaching tools that enable readers to form their own intelligent opinions of what works and does not work for their particular tastes.  A natural educator, she alternates between easily-digested theories, theories often summarized in simple chart form, and hands-on, effective experiments.  Her experiments are the most pragmatic kind: tastings.  In this way, she promotes an understanding of flavor combinations in a way that is most visceral-- through the mouth.  <br />Her theories make sense, and they work-- I know because I've tried them!  Her reading inspired me to spend way too much on sample wines and test them with various foods.  Because she is not merely presenting a list of try-this-wine-with-that-cheese, pair-Wine-A-with-Recipe-X, but rather because she is giving us readers categorical theories about why some wine styles connect to certain types of foods, we can develop our own menus based on what foods we are interested in and what wines please our palates.  In this way, her book can sit on the shelf beside such theory-driven volumesas &quot;Culinary Artistry,&quot; Peterson's &quot;Sauces,&quot; Gold's cookbooks, and Schneider's &quot;A New Way To Cook.&quot;  Immer puts the reader in the creative position rather than calling for imitation with an encyclopedia of recipes.  <br />What is still more appealing about her approach is that she is dedicated to making wine a part of everyday dining.  She acknowledges good flavor combinations at every level of cost, time, and creativity.  Her enthusiasm for her subject is contagious.  It might tempt a reader to obtain her third book, the &quot;Wine Buying Guide.&quot;  But while Immer's &quot;Wine Buying&quot; guide is fine, it is an example of the &quot;old guard&quot; of wine information:  a guide that lets the reader get lost in the forest for all the trees.  For me, &quot;Great Tastes&quot; provides a far superior way of thinking, because it empowers me to make choices based on the information on the wine label rather than in a wine guide.	2002-10-28
US	44183278	R1TOU1K8ORJPSE	0140441395	546527143	Childhood, Boyhood, Youth (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Nascent Mastery	One of my favorite novels is &quot;Anna Karenina&quot;;  this trilogy starts off as strongly.  In the first volume, &quot;Childhood,&quot; the immediacy of experience is palpable, the vividness of sensations is high, the emotionality is less diluted by philosophical wonderings.  Tolstoy's writing is evocative, clear, and engaging in this book.  His writing becomes increasingly abstract with each volume in the series.  As his protagonist moves through adolescence, his uncertainties, moodiness, and fickle nature bogged down the narrative, I thought.  Of course, this reflects the state of mind of the young man, but in comparison with the brightness of the first volume, made for some tedious reading.  The books do, however, show how masterful Tolstoy was from the beginning of his career.	2002-09-10
US	44183278	R391ICAHDXLCWW	0452279836	754947696	Burning	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Early Johnson	This early novel by Diane Johnson uses as its setting the California upper-class housing development;  its characters are the eccentric post-hippies and pre-yuppies who migrated there in the 1970's.  The story covers the events of one day in broad social comedy that still contains seeds of incisive insights into the dynamics of marital relationships.  It examines in a sometimes successfully comic way the Kafka-esque bureaucracy of child welfare services, the madness of some medical practitioners, the alienation of suburbanites, the disaffection of the drug addicted.  The book is not as refined, subtle, or enriching as \\"Le Divorce,\\" but then \\"Burning\\" was a product of an author nearly 30 years younger.  Probaby best for ardent fans of Johnson.	2002-09-10
US	44183278	R13C14KZAL1K7Y	0198166117	291132302	Reading Pop: Approaches to Textual Analysis in Popular Music	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Academia Goes Pop	This volume is an uneven affair but a valuable contribution to the oft-neglected examination of popular music. While many academicians lament the dwindling attention and support given to cultured music-- i.e. classical, and to some extent to jazz-- these same musicologists and ethnomusicologists are missing the vitality of the current world. Music has genuinely become a soundtrack to our lives, bursting forth from all kinds of sources and in so many venues. Try conducting daily life in markets, stores, restaurants, cafes, even streets without being exposed to contemporary pop music. The authors of the pieces in \\"Reading Pop\\" have in fact realized the ubiquity of pop music and address its role in modern life.<br />There are interesting data contained in many of these essays. The many elements that make some pop music memorable are explored. This includes the music and/or lyrics of such artists as Randy Newman, Prince, James Brown, Peter Gabriel, and Bruce Springsteen, among others.  Theories about what is important in contemporary popular music are put forth; the ideas are valuable. There is an informative and well-written chapter about torch singers by John Moore.  Also included is a \\"Method Of Analysis\\" chapter by Philip Tagg.  It looks at musicology and compares modes of folk, pop and art music transmission.  Tagg provides a checklist of features that might be analyzed in pop music, and gives examples of how these features might be described in rich and meaningful ways.  Tagg unfortunately falls prey to his own jargon. <br />Actually, most of the book suffers from a particularly virulent case of \\"academ-ese.\\" Esoteric jargon from the ivory tower suffuses the prolix writing. The sentences are structured in knotted prose, running on and on in complex clauses and sub-clauses that are too often difficult to disentangle. The obnoxious reliance on trendy phrases and supposedly clever writing devices-- heavy uses of slash marks and words with some syllables parenthesized: these are pretentions that reflect poor style and bad habits. <br />Four sentences illustrate this problem, sentences from the editor's own introduction to the book:  \\"Interestingly, if any emergent analytic paradigm may be represented as currently possessing the potential for dominance, it is, in my view, 'dialogics.'  Congruent with theories of discourse, mediation, and (post)modern ethnography, its recent prominence is nevertheless associated with a more specific influence, that of Mikhail Bakhtin.  Bakhtin's materialist seminology posits-- against structural formalisms and sociological and economic reductionisms alike-- that meaning is always both socially and historically situated, and generically specific.  Heteroglot networks of discursive conventions resulting from never-ending, historically contingent exchanges create a kind of giant intertextuality, operating both between utterances, texts, styles, genres, and social groups, and within individual examples of each.\\"  <br />One can only imagine the bloated egos or inferiority fears that fuel such composition. Because of the way it is written, this volume really serves only those with recent training in musicology-- other readers are apt to become too frustrated with the authorial style. Too bad for these writers-- their ideas make a contribution, but the ideas are apt to fall on a limited audience.	2002-09-07
US	44183278	R11LKHL6T2MYNC	0415920728	924900635	What the Music Said: Black Popular Music and Black Public Culture	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting Premises	In this book Neal theorizes about African-American music, examining the link between early 20th century musics and turn-of-the-millenium music.  The author shows connections between social developments and the forms of pop music that black Americans developed.  The book is interesting both as a survey of some threads of black music and as an overview of historical changes for African-Amercians in our nation.<br />The linkages between the two-- the music and the social climate-- are supported by a careful analysis of the music, and more often of the lyrics of some well-known composers.  Performance styles are given some attention also.  However, Neal is selective about examining only those artists whose work supports his theories.  Other artists whose work does not fit the schema are generally ignored.  In this sense, the book is not exhaustive.  That is fine, actually, as the volume is elegantly structured into six digestible chapters.  This maintains the momentum of the writing and allows the reader to remain engaged, to avoid being bogged down in minutia.<br />Neal does a nice job of examining the African-American societies that have emerged during the 20th century.  He looks at how different groups of blacks have related with each other, and how the music serves to both mollify and communicate the tensions and connections between the groups.  The roles of work, finances, and community are given emphasis in his theories.  As such, he focuses mostly on the middle-class, the working-class, and the under-class blacks.  Other groups, such as gays or the wealthy (often the artists themselves), receive less attention.<br />The author does at times surrender to a hair-splitting approach with the concepts.  Sometimes his writing becomes entangled, with long, long sentences that are structured so that the reader becomes lost.  This occurs primarily in the later chapters.  The index given to the book is fairly incomplete, making cross-referencing difficult.  To his great credit, Neal tends to hew closely to common language.  This makes the book as a whole accessible to a variety of readers.  Overall, I found this to be a educational and insightful volume, and recommend it to anyone interested in popular music, African-American cultural studies, or contemporary history.	2002-09-07
US	44183278	RWNPTUZAUT6XT	0743444035	383388943	True Enough	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Welcomed McCauley Entry	\\"True Enough\\" brings eager readers the latest McCauley tale of self-deluded characters fumbling toward (and away from) love.  As with his other novels, this one has a large cast of interesting persons, most of whom seem detached or alienated from a sense of what satisfies them in the romance department.  Once again, McCauley examines the dynamics of the longer-term, more established partnerships as well as the budding romances.  Once again, he provides a realistic and compelling voice to a major female protagonist.  And once again, he shows us winning people with major warts engaging in frustrating, self-defeating behavior because they are so remote from what is genuinely gratifying.<br />There is less bittersweet quality in this novel than in the author's others;  this time around the plot is bit more forceful as the reader is taken down alleys that threaten disaster for their unsuspecting travelers.  In this novel McCauley has given both of the main characters-- gay and straight-- more confidence and less uncertainty.  The characters glitter with an entertaining and not quite convincing blend of sharp analysis of their friends and associates on the one hand, with cluelessness about their own motivations on the other.  Sarcasm and irony are wielded by the characters like fencing epees.  The resolutions of the entwined stories are satisfying, given what passed before, but somewhat pat.  McCauley is, however, well worth seeking out, especially his strongest novel, \\"The Easy Way Out.\\"	2002-07-30
US	44183278	R2IQM46782JV7Z	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Amusing Tale	This novel about academia does not employ the barbed wit of some of the biting observations of the ivory tower (e.g. &quot;Pas de Deux,&quot; &quot;Mickellson's Ghosts&quot;) although the protagonist likes to think he does.  The story does not portray in depth the characters that fuel the absurd environment of college faculties, although there are some broad-stroke collegiate types.  The situations are farcical enough, but the book reads more like Smiley's &quot;Moo&quot; than Lurie's &quot;Foreign Affairs.&quot;<br />The story is told from the point of view of a middle-aged professor whose dreams and aspirations have leaked out of him during his tenure at a third-rate state university branch.  As such, this is an interesting premise.  Unfortunately, the author does not provide incisive-enough observation to allow the reader to understand the character despite his self-delusions and denial.  The protagonist sees himself as more raucously funny than he actually is.  The cast of supporting characters is sometimes sketchily drawn, with many of the prime players-- the wife, for example-- out of the story for the majority of the book.  The author's symbolism is at turns obscure and obvious.  And like some of the reviewers on this site, I felt the plot was fairly insipid and ennervating to the novel.  The book does display, however, the author's command of language and his amusing take on dialogue.  Good for beach reading, this snack is less substantial than a literary meal.	2002-07-30
US	44183278	R25NIOV846CSKE	006093395X	161867926	As the Romans Do: An American Family's Italian Odyssey	Books	2	18	26	N	N	Rambling Essays	This book, unfortunately, seems to be trying to cash in on the lucrative trend for travel essays and tales of temporary ex-patriots.  The author presents un-connected chapters, each containing musings about some aspect of Rome, but none has much of an idea, theme, or point.  Reading this book reminded me of why I don't like to be invited to a slide show of somebody else's trip-- you had to be there.  Amateur photography and amateur writing just do not convey the essence of a place very well.  The writing in this book is undisciplined and the author makes the mistaken assumption that one's stream of consciousness without intellectual rigor will be interesting to someone outside his circle of family and friends.  Not recommended.	2002-06-30
US	44183278	R13Z046RA9KA3Z	0465026214	911697688	Gay New York: Gender, Urban Culture, and the Making of the Gay Male World, 1890-1940	Books	4	26	26	N	N	Fresh Thinking About Gay History	Chauncey's book offers serious and original thinking about queer history and about general urban history as well.  Freed from the myths that have persisted about the place of homosexuals in U.S. society, the author paints a new portrait of what transpired just before the turn of the last century and into the early decades of the 20th century.<br />The most important idea he explains is that the concepts of \\"homosexuality\\" and \\"heterosexuality\\" as we understand them today didn't exist one hundred years ago.  Chauncey's research shows that it was adherence to traditional gender role, rather than choice of sex partner, that labelled a man as either a \\"fairy\\" or \\"normal.\\"   The author provides detailed descriptions of the process by which working class men in particular could have sexual relations with other men and perserve a \\"normal\\" identity so long as the sex partners were effeminate.  He uses extensive supporting materials that undergird his conclusions, including accounts of the \\"pansies\\" who were not, in fact, demeaned or ostracized but instead were tolerated, courted, and may even have served a vital purpose to working men who had relocated alone to the city to support families that lived elsewhere or to make their way into adulthood.<br />Chauncey shows how the definition of \\"invert\\"-- detour from  standard gender role-- shifted gradually to the notion of \\"degenerate\\" or \\"homosexual\\"-- men who chose other men as sex partners.  He makes clear how the emerging definition of homosexuality depended on a similarly new definition of heterosexuality.  These subtle but powerful social mores are detailed at length, in convincing prose.<br />The book explains that there were places in early 20th century society for gays, countering the mistaken belief that the 1960's rebellions brought people out of the closet.  The author hints, but doesn't explicitly state, that societal needs may have some not insubstantial effect on how prominent the gay people will be in our communities, or even how many young men may experiment with homosexuality for identity, financial need, or other reasons.<br />Chauncey's prose is vivid and evocative.  He many times, especially in the early parts of the book, uses a hair-splitting preciseness with terms that can become tiresome to a reader.  He also shows an academic's obsessiveness with source material:  his book is chockful of lengthy source notes in the appendix and footnotes at the bottoms of the pages.  These practices make his work explicit for purposes of academics but also tedious for general reading.  <br />He employs other techniques that I believe weakened the impact of the reading.  Chauncey summarizes a great deal at the end of each chapter, which dilutes the momentum of his historical survey.  He is prone to repetitions of concepts and quotes.  He also divided his themes such that each chapter covers expansive times.  This has the reader continually moving back to the beginning of his chosen era, which diffuses the reader's sense of progressions over time.  My sense is that he was not able to decide if the book were to be textbook for teaching, academic document for university colleagues, or general historical account.  Nevertheless, his interesting prose, his unique perspectives,  and his strong synthetic thinking make this an important work.	2002-06-15
US	44183278	R3IFEHXNTOH27T	0811813762	822235088	The Vegetarian Bistro: 250 Authentic French Regional Recipes	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	Great French Fare	This cookbook offers a great selection of dishes that taste like authentic French fare.  The author provides short vignettes with each recipe, sort of travelogue pieces that set the stage for the dish.  There are charming illustrations peppered throughout the book.  The writing is straight-forward and the author's zest is apparent.  She is more liberal with the fats than I would be, but this is easily adjusted.  She also admits to a fondness for lots of garlic-- here too the recipes can use one clove instead of her preferred five cloves, or the garlic can be roasted to provide a mellow rather than biting flavor.<br />There are a variety of satisfying dishes that are quite true to their origins.  The author provides some filling entrees, such as Puree Of Beans And Potatoes Over Roasted Red Peppers;  Stuffed Savoy Cabbage;  Pasta With Pistou And Goat Cheese;  and Potato Cheese Cakes.  She also presents a number of stews and souffles.  Among the soups are great recipes for Fennel, Zucchini And Leek;  Asparagus And Tomato;  Celery And Celeriac;  and Carrot And Tomato With Cumin.  The salad section does not rely on greens:  recommended are the Fennel And Red Pepper;  the White Beans With Black Olive Dressing;  and the Belgian Endives Baked With Roquefort.  There are also good cheese and dessert sections in this wonderful cookbook.	2002-06-10
US	44183278	R108GJFZNJEBO1	0312269196	466353901	The Soul Beneath the Skin: The Unseen Hearts and Habits of Gay Men	Books	4	35	40	N	Y	Thought-Provoking Polemic	This is the kind of assumption-shattering book that we need in these times of passively-accepted hype and media-fed half truths. The author takes a clear-eyed look at the statistics that have been floated before us in dozens of newspaper and magazine articles, in television programs, and other popular venues. Nimmons rightly protests that the statistics have for the most part been interpeted with a preconceived conclusion by popular writers. He also digs up other statistics that have definitely not been presented, because they do not jibe with the prevailing attitudes about his subject-- the subculture of gay men. He offers his own take on what these statistics and patterns mean, refusing to accept the pronouncements of other people without being convinced by the data.<br />He presents information about several aspects of the behavior of gay men as a group. The police logs tell us that violence in gay bars, Pride parades, and other gatherings of celebrating and often intoxicated gays is far lower than in heterosexual gatherings such as pubs, sporting events, and parades. The incidence of gay domestic violence, distorted in the popular media, is in fact equivalent to the incidence amongst the straight community. In fact, conflation of lesbian and gay domestic violence rates may make gay men seem more prone to domestic violence than they actually are.<br />Nimmons examines the rates of volunteerism amongst gay and straight men and find both monetary and time donations to be significantly higher in the former group. He hypothesizes that an ethos of caring informs not only the frequency with which gay men volunteer for both gay-related and gay-unrelated causes, but also informs the higher representation of gay men in service-connected careers like healthcare, social service, etc.<br />The author considers what it might mean that gay men handle relationships of all kinds differently than heterosexual men. He cites mostly anecdotal information in this topic, hypothesizingthat the gay modes of managing interpersonal relations-- male-male friendships, male-female friendships, and romantic relationships-- may be of benefit to our society as it evolves. He wonders how the \\"traditional\\" family concept can be held as a yardstick when only 25% of families contain a mother, a father, and children.<br />He also presents a refutation that behavior-modification efforts targeting safer sex have been failing with gay men. Nimmons looks at the rates of safe sex amongst various groups, and finds that gay men have changed their actions most, with an approximate 2/3 rule: 66% or so of gay men have substantially altered their sexual practices toward the safer, while heterosexuals have done so at a small fraction of this rate.<br />Shorter thought pieces are included: the place of ecstatic or spiritual practices in gay men's modes of celebrating; the sensitivity to beauty and art that gay men demonstrate; the effects of negative social influences that erode what gay men do best and how they feel about themselves.<br />Nimmons' new ideas about gay theory are intriguing and important. When he uses concrete data, he makes strong cases. At times he ignores possible confounding factors (for example, perhaps gay men don't utilize police services as frequently as other groups because of a reluctance to face societal derision or authority indifference). At other times he relies as much on hypothesis as on hard data. Nevertheless, his assertions are at least as valid as what passes for the hard journalism most of us must rely on. <br />Perhaps the biggest complaint with the book is in the writing. Nimmons starts off with a blithe attitude, attempting to use humor that, unfortunately, distracts from the important message he is making. He returns to the humor periodically and it continues to be jarring. Also, he is repetitious in foreshadowing his points, in making deductive conclusions, in summing up his hypotheses. A more heavily edited book would have been more cogent, making its points succinctly and with greater impact. The Soul Beneath The Skin is, however, a conceptual accomplishment for this iconoclast-- recommended highly for humanists, feminists, religious leaders, and anyone concerned with the state of our society. It stands alongside The Myth Of Male Power as a fresh way of looking at the world in which we live.	2002-06-05
US	44183278	R8Y3XFFHUALSC	0822317435	869958727	Rhythm and Noise: An Aesthetics of Rock	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Academia In The Stadium	The author has written a hybrid book: part theoretical treatise, part fan statement.  He provides a good deal of interesting information and makes some important points about rock music.  <br />Among these is that records rather than performances or written songs are the relevant objects of study in rock music.  Gracyk  supports this claim by making the argument that sound qualities and their textural combinations are more relevant than melody or composition.  <br />He makes good points about how the record-making process, rather than performances, are the real work of rock musicians.  He explains the role of arrangers, producers, recording engineers, and mixers in the process of creating the records.  Gracyk reveals the collaboration between the nominal acts and their studio-based, somewhat anonymous colleagues.  To explain his premise, the author uses the parallel example of film-making as more relevant to rock music than cultivated (art) music.<br />In making his points, Gracyk reveals the exaggeration of images in rock music:  the &quot;jam-oriented&quot; guitar player, the unity of the band, the rebel-against-the-capitalist-system persona.  He goes into lengthy explorations of writings about rock music from Theodor Adorno, Harold Bloom, and Camille Paglia.  <br />It is in the rebuttals to these other authors that the writing becomes most problematic.  Gracyk's hair-splitting approach is cumbersome and almost but not quite hides the fact that his arguments with these other writers are incomplete, his logic circular or based on assertion rather than explanation.  At times he sounds like a fan who has been upset to hear that not everyone likes his favored music.  He never really adequately explains his assertions that rock music is not cultivated (art) music, nor is it folk music.  To this reader, the former claim is evident, while the latter one still needs careful explanation.	2002-06-01
US	44183278	RCIK58W62ONPC	038078209X	909298323	Music, The Brain, And Ecstasy: How Music Captures Our Imagination	Books	3	151	157	N	N	Science In The Arts	It is interesting to read the previous reviews of this book;  so many people seem to have ignored the author's explicit caveats that he is mostly discussing Western cultivated music 1) because that is the music he is most familiar with, 2) because that is the music most researched with regard to his topic of brain response, and 3) because Westerners do not have adequate vocabulary or understanding of other musical endeavors, such as the polyrhythms of Western African music.  He is very clear that some African music has a long tradition of developing rhythm in its performances, rhythm that Western art music has virtually ignored in favor of certain types of harmonic and structural inventions.  Because he sets out his perspective so clearly, I don't find it fair to criticize the author for not providing what a reader might hope for in a book.<br />The writing is well-constructed;  the author uses everyday language to describe complex and scientific information.  His use of the Pink Panther theme as an example for the various topics is a helpful one.  He does provide a great level of detail about brain function, the science of sound, perceptual processes, and other expert facts that can overwhelm the reader.  He also  seems to get lost in the forest of science at the expense of the phenomenological experience of enjoying music.  There is, in fact, little discussion of the ecstasy in the title.  There is far more Brain than Music or Ecstasy in this volume.  It is, nevertheless, a well-written book that serves as a condensation of past writings on the topic and an invitation for further explorations of human reactions to music.	2002-06-01
US	44183278	R1D5ZS186M3ZIA	0060198192	684968630	Welcome to My Kitchen: A New York Chef Shares His Robust Recipes and Secret Techniques	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Real Secrets	In this cookbook, the author seems willing to actually part with secrets he has learned and acquired from his professional training and experiences as a chef.  Rather than present yet another collection of recipes that readers can imitate, Valenti seems interested in promoting in the home cook useful cooking skills and ways of adapting to what food is on hand, what time is available, and what interest one has in creative cooking.  The introductory sections are informative and different from most other books', and while the main part of the volume is a selection of recipes, the emphasis is on adaptions and flavor.  The dishes are often unique and the book reads well.  The author's love of cooking shines through on every page, and he is no snob-- he bears in mind the constraints of time and equipment that the average experienced cook faces.	2002-03-19
US	44183278	R2HFWGN83ZV2C2	0684865866	381878820	Guess Again: Short Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fiction From A Master Memoir Writer	The author of &quot;Truth Serum,&quot; an astonishing memoir of childhood, presents here a collection of short fiction.  The tone and voice in these stories are familiar from Cooper's earlier writing.  He relates his tales in an introspective but not maudlin manner.  Cooper can write about heartbreaking circumstances without self pity, pathos, or mockery.  He takes an empathic stance toward all  of his characters.  The element of recall is ever present.  Most of the stories relate an interesting circumstance and contain in the middle a reminiscence of an earlier time that is thematically connected to the present.  In this sense, these short stories are similar to the memoirs Cooper has previously written.<br />Some of the stories have outrageously off-beat, humorous premises (&quot;What To Name The Baby,&quot; &quot;A Man In The Making,&quot; &quot;Hunters and Gatherers&quot;).  They are rarely, however, written for out-loud laughs.  Rather, they serve to explore human nature and emotional tenor.  Cooper is particularly adept at delving into the warmth of romantic ties.  His depictions of love relationships (&quot;Exterior Decoration,&quot; &quot;Old Birds,&quot; &quot;Hunters and Gatherers&quot;) convey intimacy succinctly, clearly, and movingly.<br />The painfully raw, embarrassing awkwardness of budding adolescent sexuality is explored in &quot;A Man In The Making.&quot;  This story begins with a cryptic situation that unfolds into a cringe-inducing event that reveals so much about how alone young adults can be with their erotic impulses.  The tenacity of personality, even in the face of deteriorating health, is demonstrated in the tender and clever &quot;Exterior Decoration.&quot;  Cooper's oft-visited theme of family ties sees endings and beginnings folding into and strenghening one another in &quot;Old Birds.&quot;  The varieties of domestic arrangements are considered in  the highly amusing &quot;What To Name The Baby.&quot;  This collection of short pieces is a very fine book.  If it is not as strong as &quot;Truth Serum,&quot; it must be remembered that few books could be.  Cooper is a writer whose work is becoming consistently rewarding  and rich.	2001-11-27
US	44183278	R2IFOAT1MFQUKW	0767904540	773255064	On Rue Tatin: Living and Cooking in a French Town	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Charmed LIfe	It is hard to resist the charms of this book.  Some people may find the prevailing positivity preposterous;  I succumbed to Loomis' upbeat perspective.  Some may complain that writings about small town life that do not contain irony are pollyannish;  I thought the book was uplifting.  Some people may complain about the unedited tone of the book;  I felt like I was reading a manuscript from diary entries.  For readers who enjoy travel writing, culinary explorations, and relocation tales, &quot;On Rue Tatin&quot; will be diverting and pleasant.<br />The book relates Loomis' beginning flirtation with French lifestyles as a student of cooking and continues through her permanent move to the country.  She describes her initial connections and friendships, the events surrounding homemaking efforts, her pursuit of cookery ideas, and the neighbors amongst whom she becomes ensconced.  Her efforts to create a rewarding life are appealing.  <br />The most glaring flaws of the book are related to inadequate (unpresent?) editing.  Syntax and continuity problems abound.  For me, one of the most jarring difficulties was the author's unexplained shift from vegetarian to hearty carnivore.  Nevertheless, many of recipes she presents are wonderful, particularly the Stuffed Tomatoes and the Yogurt Cake.  For a foodie and domestic architecture junkie like me, the book was great fun.	2001-11-27
US	44183278	R3QVONN5VU1YF8	0872237745	917081426	Pas de deux	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Academia, Middle Age Loneliness, And Confusion	I hate to make comparisons, but in an effort to characterize this book (and recommend it), I would draw parallels to John Gardner's &quot;Mickellson's Ghosts.&quot;  The novel is set in a Seattle-area college town.  The protagonist is a middle aged divorced man whose wry views of academic life are amusing and enlightening.  Not taking himself or his career as a professor too seriously, he stumbles out of loneliness into an unlikely love affair.  Amidst the concerns of students and teaching responsibilities, the affair starts with kinky twists, develops into something with emotional depth, and then takes a sudden turn into highly unexpected territory.  Lange's writing is rich and involving, with his observations acid and characterization revealing.  The plot is unique in my reading experience, and I have over the years re-read it several times since it was published in the early 80's.	2001-11-14
US	44183278	R3IGNE1WJOYC57	1579651887	257981538	A New Way to Cook	Books	5	145	150	N	N	Cookbook For Our Times, Par Excellence	If I had to live with only one cookbook, or were recommending a single volume for any contemporary cook, it would be this.  While it does not cover in detail beginning cooking technique such as knife skills, basic cuts, and identification of tools, it provides substantive information and such an intelligent point of view that even a modestly-experienced cook could utilize it.  Schneider's approach, not really new to readers familiar with the also wonderful Martha Rose Shulman and Rozanne Gold, among others, is nevertheless a practical way of eating healthy in delicious, sophisticated dishes.<br />Schneider endorses the practice of replacing heavy and often unhealthy fats with herbs and spices.  By using wholesome fats judiciously, by highlighting intrinsic flavors, and by using taste rather than slavish adherence to tradition, she presents a mighty range of wonderful recipes.  The recipes also turn out fantastically.  Her straight forward, first person writing reveals her love of food and is devoid of pretentions.  The recipes include informative introductions, exceptionally helpful notes about ingredients, variations and extensions, and guidelines for advance preparation.  The book is gorgeous looking, with a beautiful lay out and user-friendly format.  The index is complete and detailed, and each section of the book lists its recipes for the convenience of a cook looking for, say, ideas for tonight's soup.<br />The sections of the book include a great Vegetables chapter, Beans/Legumes, a wonderful Pasta chapter, Grains, Seafood, Meat/Poultry, Breads, a fantastic Soups section, Salads, Desserts, Flavor Essences, Broths, Oils, and Sauces.  An appendix provides nutritional analyses of the ingredients and each dish (including calories, protein, carbs, fat, fiber, and sodium for dieters.)  Large and weighty, the book would make a great gift and addition to any cook's library.	2001-11-13
US	44183278	R3CRTJPPZLYRQO	9997412370	820457278	Dodsworth	Books	2	12	19	N	N	Not Lewis' Best	As a huge fan of &quot;Babbitt&quot; and especially &quot;Main Street,&quot; I was happy to have come across an old edition of &quot;Dodsworth&quot; in a used bookstore.  I tore into it eagerly but soon came up short.  Neither satire like &quot;Babbitt&quot; nor as psychologically astute as &quot;Main Street,&quot; the book reads like something from a middle school book club.  The colloquialisms are corn-pone, far more prominent than in &quot;Babbitt.&quot;  Sam's reactions to his ocean voyages and to Europe are child-like, as are his inner responses to his wife's intolerable behaviors.  The soap opera-ish inner monologues do not ring true, containing embarrassing proclamations about Great Europe and marital resolutions.  Sam Dodsworth is painted as so naive, trusting, xenophobic and insecure that it is difficult to accept that he had an Ivy League education and was a master of business and industry.<br />The characterizations, in fact, strain credibility.  How a man  50 years of age, president of an auto manufacturing company, can be so entirely innocent of the customs of the U.S. and the world outside his small city is baffling.  He evidences no ability for making small talk, is ignorant of all current events and politics, is absent of even minor social charms with the rich-- all of these traits are overexaggerated for the purposes of the book.  That Dodsworth and his wife have such a sudden disaffection and disenchantment ignores the certain difficulties of raising two children and navigating 20 years of maariage.  It seems unlikely that Fran's pretentions emerge only on their trip. Certainly her preferences and choices in managing a family would have foreshadowed these problems.<br />A common criticism of Lewis's body of work is its uneveness.  The depth and success of &quot;Main Street&quot; are contrasted with many of his later writings.  I found &quot;Dodsworth&quot; too to read more like a novelization of an early screenplay, exaggerated and distorted for dramatic effect.	2001-11-13
US	44183278	RLEAWUYXUQY8R	0316493716	450614938	The Cook's Bible: The Best of American Home Cooking	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Overpromising?	Having been cooking simple and complex meals for some years now, reading a wide range of cookbooks both anthologized and specialized, and learning about culinary theory in food preparation, I am skeptical about any author who attempts to present The Best of anything.  Ordinarily I would dismiss \\"The Best Of\\" subtitles as the hype of publishers wanting to attract a reader's eye;  in Kimball's case, though, I think he means it. His \\"Cook's Illustrated\\" and cottage industry of cookbooks has no lesser goal than providing the last word on home culinary technique.<br />As a more or less complete cookbook, the pretentiously named \\"Cook's Bible\\" fares adequately.  I have read it carefully and tried a number of its selections....  As has been noted, Kimball's recipes are not always reliable, some of his writing is dated, and his insistence that he knows best obscures the fact that culinary tastes vary and preferences are wide ranging.  I admire the use of test kitchens and trial cooks, but there are many of them in existence, and each has developed a cookbook or series of books.  They all provide variations on the themes, suggesting that in many cases, taste is in the mouth of the beholder.<br />Kimball brings an overly somber, compulsive, almost joyless attitude to cooking.  I find his writing to be pompous, absent of the glee and zest other food writers display.  He rarely admits to variety in cuisine and assumes that his is the only worthwhile opinion, seeming to need to be correct and authoritative.  He is systematic, and he offers advise about technique that can be helpful, especially to beginning cooks.  I'm not sure I would be able to recommend just one cookbook for all needs;....	2001-11-06
US	44183278	RHJQFLMZ4YWU8	0061263001	785565732	Inside, Looking Out: A Personal Memoir	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Absorbing Personal Tale	Lemay's account of the first half of his life is an insightful, honest reckoning of painful childhood, hard-won self awareness, and longing.  In straight-forward prose, he describes the memories he has, and those he thinks he should have, of a life of emotional deprivation.  The way he conveys his sense of alienation, literally feeling alien to the family that seems more at ease in the dirt farming community, gives richness to his story.  <br />Absent of self-pity, he takes stock of his own shortcomings and the way he flounders through young adulthood once he escapes the hinterlands.  Lemay links primal childhood experiences with actions he often feels compelled to take in later years.  His search for a sense of adequacy, belonging, and accomplishment make for an in-depth portrait.  He makes fascinating connections between unresolved family attachments and the ambivalent relationships of his adult years. <br />The motivations of an artistic frame of mind, the development of childhood dreams into adult realities, and the frank openess regarding the well rounded life were absorbing to this reader.  I thrilled in the author's willingness to reveal these aspects of his life and was able to identify all the more because of his honesty.  I also found this book to be a counterpoint to much of the writing of the WWII era that cast a halo of vagueness and false steadfastness around its occupants.<br />Lemay's childhood fascinations with fictional characters and movie actors developed into pursuit of acting, then playwriting, and later work in the publishing field.  A follow-up memoir called &quot;Eight Years In Another World&quot; chronicles a subsequent, intense period of screenwriting for television.	2001-11-06
US	44183278	R2ZW03I2CAPGO6	0689111495	411353883	Eight years in Another world	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Second Memoir	This book details the years during the 1970's in which the author wrote for a popular, long-running television program.  His uncertain beginning, learning by the seat of his pants, immersion into the rigors of the work, and ultimate obsession with the writing are interesting.  Read after the author's first memoir, one can appreciate why Lemay behaved as he did during the 70's.  Although he had reconciled some of the past conflicts about his childhood by this time, ghosts of his demons and unresolved issues sprang up in the hothouse of daytime TV writing.<br />Lemay provides an interesting depiction of the struggles anyone would face in the fast-paced, pressure cooker environment of soap operas-- creating 5 one hour dramas each week with no time off for reruns-- and gives us some hints about his own particular reaction to the stresses.  &quot;Eight Years&quot; does not, however, contain the depth of insight and self revelation that the preceding memoir did.  A reader who had not read the first volume would not realize the desires, experiences, and unfulfilled hopes that drove Lemay to throw himself into a cauldron of obsessive writing, quest for quality, self imposed isolation, and acceptance of inane corporate superiors.  The costs of such compulsive self discipline are outlined but not as completely detailed as in his first book.  Implied in the book is the incredible convergence of fate that brought a man who had been so long striving to enter another, better world through sometimes dramatic means to a television show that needed a theme about longing and the lengths to which people will go to find satisfaction of their dreams.<br />Much of the book is devoted to the plots Lemay created for the show.  This hints at the role of fantasy in the mind of a damaged child, creative adult, and questing person, but the author refrains from exploring at length the links between addiction to writing the ongoing lives of imagined characters and the deprivations of his actualhistory.  The continuing drama of his show's characters do propel the book the way they do a soap, which is fun.  The pain of Lemay's decisions, however, seem underplayed.  Nevertheless, as a two volume memoir, &quot;Inside, Looking Out&quot; and &quot;Eight Years&quot; make for a compelling portrait of a man one might like to know better.  The books raise curiosity about the plays he also wrote and the teleplays of &quot;Another World&quot; of the 1970's that may be lost forever except in the memories of fans lucky enough to have seen them in their single airing.	2001-11-06
US	44183278	RTT1Q8OV31DO2	0871134969	468279073	The Artful Eater: A Gourmet Investigates the Ingredients of Great Food	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Food Essays	&quot;The Artful Eater&quot; is similar to &quot;The Man Who Ate Everything&quot; in its detailed, perhaps obsessive attention to things gustatory.  Behr's writing tends to be more serious, less irreverent and self-deprecatingly humorous than Steingarten's.  He approaches food with gravity and curiosity but certainly not with the righteousness and pompousness of Christopher Kimball.  He has collected here essays that each explore in detail a single food type, such as apples, eggs, walnuts, or vanilla beans.  He infuses his writing with interesting facts about using the ingredient, how it produced, and ways of discerning quality.  I imagine any experienced cook would enjoy the book as a gift.	2001-11-06
US	44183278	R3B9NLKO2DZP9A	0028625676	971717711	Vegetarian Times Complete Thanksgiving Cookbook	Books	3	20	22	N	N	Focus On Autumn	This cookbook tackles perhaps the most difficult challenge vegetarians face.  While there is a wide range of produce that comes into its own in the Autumn, and the Thanksgiving table usually holds an array of plant-based foodstuffs, there is nevertheless no other gathering in U.S. culture that brings expectations of a certain dish.  And flesh-based it is.  Without the turkey, how do vegetarians host Thanksgiving?  Vegetarian Times addresses the problem in this cookbook.  There is an attempt to provide several impressive-looking dishes that can take the central place of the poultry.  A number of roulades, tangines, and deep dish recipes make the effort.<br />The focus on Fall dishes makes the book a good resource, especially for those people who reluctantly let go of the summer bounty of tomatoes, peppers, zucchini, etc.  The dishes apply not only to the holiday meal but to all late year suppers.  There are a number of appetizers and first course recipes that allow for any entertaining.  In fact, the chapters include Appetizers, Beverages, Soups, Salads, Entrees, Sides, Gravies/Table Sauces, Breads, and Desserts.  There a number of vegan options, including vegan pumpkin pie.<br />At times the recipes are complicated or use perhaps too many ingredients considering alternative preparation methods I've used.  Also, there are a few dishes that fall on the bland side when prepared as directed.  However, there are some stand-outs:  Endive Spears with Goat Cheese and Roasted Garlic;  Herbed White Bean Pate;  Cider;  Mock Champagne;  Roasted Red Pepper and Sweet Potato Soup;  Pear Salad With Raspberry Vinaigrette;  Roasted Asparagus Salad;  Vegetable Pancakes with Roasted Plum Sauce;  Squash and Spinach Risotto;  Baked Pumpkin Stuffed With Vegetable Pilaf;  Shiitake and Potato Pot Pie with Polenta Crust;  Glazed Shallots and Walnuts;  Sweet Potato Stuffing;  Great Winter Bread Pudding;  and of course the Pumpkin Pie.	2001-10-31
US	44183278	R2D24T5K1LQSVQ	0415075246	228704296	Reconstructing Schizophrenia	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Fascinating Collection	While the writing in this assembly of essays varies in style, approach, and complexity, the overall theme of examining the concept of &quot;schizophrenia&quot; is absorbing and enlightening.  As a psychologist I found it gratifying to see others in my field questioning the accepted concepts and assumptions.  The book is probably more technical than the average reader would prefer;  for mental health professionals teaching abnormal psychology or using the DSMIV in treatment it is essential reading.<br />The book contains 11 essays.  I found three particularly compelling.  Mary Boyle's chapter, The Non-Discovery of Schizophrenia?, considers whether the &quot;schizophrenia&quot; classification qualifies as a disease.  She defines diease classifications, looks at the history of the &quot;schizophrenia&quot; label, considers the meaning of the highly variable course of symptoms, and reveals the failure to demonstrate a consistent syndrome of symptoms.  She shows that many of the symptoms classified by early researchers may actually have been syphillis, encephalitis, and Parkinson's.  The way that later researchers uncritically and rather carelessly accepted these mistakes suggests that apart from the presence of psychotic symptoms, there may not be any basis to a progressive disease called &quot;schizophrenia.&quot;<br />Richard Bentall's essay is titled The Syndromes and Symptoms of Psychoses.  He carefully considers the issues of reliablity and validity in diagnosis and demonstrates how many differences there are amongst the symptoms of persons labelled as &quot;schizophrenic.&quot;  He shows how people do not show a discrete dividing line between psychotic and non-psychotic.  He says &quot;given that schizophrenia appears to be a disorder with no particular symptoms, no particular course, no particular outcome, and which responds to no particular treatment, it is unsurprising that 100 years of research has failed to establish that it has any partiucular cause.&quot;He then looks at the four types of psychotic symptoms, hallucinations, delusions, thought disorder, and negative symptoms, and hypothesizes a model for exploring the role of each of these in behavioral disorders.<br />David Pilgrim's Competing Histories of Madness looks at the ways that deviant behavior has been handled in earlier societies and traces the economic and professional goals that have contributed to our current ways of thinking about &quot;mental illness.&quot;	2001-10-31
US	44183278	R2XSM8SZQA878H	0963262629	494256786	How to Become a Schizophrenic	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Justifiable Anger	This book is written by a man who had been diagnosed with and treated for schizophrenia.  He experienced first hand the maze of interventions, the pressure to conform to treatment (or rather be compliant), and the dehumanizing effects of both the so-called mental illness and the system that addressed its treatment.<br />Modrow takes a detailed look at the evidence for the proposed causes of schizophrenia and delineates the weaknesses of the popularly accepted premise that it is a genetic, biologically caused disease.  In particular, he aims a discerning eye on the details of the Twin and Adoption studies in which so much faith has been placed in proving the medical model.  He looks at the findings of brain chemistry studies and medication effectiveness, finding the results wanting.  Modrow also  examines the economic factors that exert such a large influence on treatments.<br />The tone of the book at times is incensed, understandably so.  The author delivers in thoroughness when he explores the many steps that brought psychiatry to its current state.  His unique viewpoint and experience make his writing indispensable.  The book serves as a good accompaniment to such titles as Breggin's &quot;Toxic Psychiatry,&quot;  Bentall's &quot;Reconstructing Schizophrenia,&quot; Valenstein's &quot;Blaming The Brain,&quot;  Becker's &quot;The Revolution in Psychiatry,&quot; and Szasz' &quot;The Manufacture of Madness.&quot;	2001-10-31
US	44183278	R20V9EVOY8GS72	0060195983	414061503	Verdura: Vegetables Italian Style	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Garden Recipes	La Place presents here Italian-themed dishes that spotlight vegetables.  The book is much in the same vein as the great Cucina Rustica, which La Place co-authored.  The book is a wonderful resource for gardeners who sometimes are overwhelmed with the gifts of their plots.  The author provides good notes with each recipe and lists the Italian names of each dish.  There is a nice variety of dishes.<br />The chapters include Antipasti, Salads, Grilled Breads/Sandwiches, Soups, Pasta, Rice/Polenta, Main Dishes, Sides, and Desserts.  Noteworthy recipes include Tomato and Peach Salad with Walnuts;  Cauliflower with Lemon Dressing (includes radishes and olives);  Summer Rice Salad;  Potato and Arugula Soup;  Pasta with Peas, Scallions, and Mint;  Pasta with Green Tomato and Almond Sauce;  Pasta with Fennel and Tomato;  Rice with Squash and Sage Butter;  Polenta with Broccoli Sauce;  Potato and Artichoke Torte;  and Golden Herbed Goat Cheese Rounds.	2001-10-31
US	44183278	RV0VO1ON9D55K	0471007765	587918860	Pseudoscience in Biological Psychiatry: Blaming the Body	Books	4	36	37	N	N	A Needed Corrective	The authors take a critical look at the state of psychiatry in the 1990's.  In ways that members of ethical professions are supposed to, they look at the assumptions underpinning much of the behavior of psychiatrists.  They organize much of their thinking according to the ways that logic would necessitate hypotheses to be formed, tested, and accepted or discarded.<br />Especially edifying is the great attention Ross and Pam give to the errors in logic that are rampant in the Biological Psychiatry model.  These include &quot;If It Runs In Families It Must Be Genetic (versus Learned Behavior),&quot;  &quot;If It Responds To Medication It Must Have a Biological Cause,&quot;  &quot;Proving a Mental Illness is Biological Will Reduce the Stigma,&quot;  &quot;Lab Tests Can Improve the Accuracy of Psychiatric Diagnosis,&quot;  &quot;The Genetic Basis of Schizophrenia is Scientifically Established,&quot;  &quot;Depression Is Based on a Biological Deficit, Likely of Serotonin or Noradrenalin Function,&quot;  &quot;The Placebo Response Is an Artifact of No Scientific Interest,&quot;  &quot;Biological Psychiatrists Have Made Important Discoveries About Mental Illness in the Past 10 Years,&quot;  and &quot;The Ascendance of Biopsychiatry in the 1980's Has Resulted in More Scientific and Effective Treatment.&quot;<br />In place of the Biological Model, the book proposes a Trauma Model.  It involves medical, biological, psychiatric, behavioral, and scientific features.  It generates testable hypotheses.  While hardly a new concept, the Trauma Model has great merit, providing that trauma includes pervasive, chronic stressors.  The role of trauma as a causal factor leading to behavioral, emotional, and biological changes is addressed in other important books, such as John Modrow's &quot;How To Become A Schizophrenic,&quot;  the Richard Bentall edited volume &quot;Reconstructing Schizophrenia,&quot;  Susan Vaughn's &quot;The Talking Cure,&quot; and Peter Breggin's &quot;Toxic Psychiatry.&quot;	2001-10-31
US	44183278	R31SK75K8VPHQV	0029174422	913599849	Rethinking Psychiatry: From Cultural Category to Personal Experience	Books	4	18	19	N	N	New Perspectives	Kleinman brings an anthropological perspective to the field of psychiatry, examining the forces of culture and society on how deviant, nonconforming behavior is produced, labelled, and reacted to.  Much like Gerald Erchak (The Anthropology of Self and Behavior), Kleinman considers what a diagnosis is and how it is influenced by a society's definitions of illness and disease.<br />The book addresses first the question, What Is A Psychiatric Diagnosis?  It next addresses the question, Do Psychiatric Disorders Differ in Different Cultures, answering &quot;Sometimes.&quot;  The author asks Do Social Relations and Cultural Meanings Contribute to the Onset and Course of Mental Illness?  Here he examines the connections between the economy of a society and the prevalence of psychiatric diagnoses.  He also considers the role of social change in the prevalence and nature of mental illness.<br />A very interesting portion of the book is titled How Do Professional Values Influence the Work of Psychiatrists?  Kleinman offers a transcript of an initial session between a U.S. patient and psychiatrist.  The subsequently formulated diagnosis and treatment plan are provided.  The patient's diary entry following the session shows the discrepancy in world views between physician and patient.  Next is an examination of  a session between a Chinese psychiatrist and patient.<br />How Do Psychiatrists Heal? is the title of the next section of the book.  Here, Kleinman looks at the clinical tools of psychiatry as compared to the healing tools of other cultures.  Considered are the institutional settings of healing, the nature of the healing interaction, practitioner characteristics, styles of communication, clinical considerations, cultural settings, and extratherapeutic factors.  An examination of how symbols are used in healing in psychotherapy and other folk cures follows.  The book concludes with thoughts about the question What Relationship Should Psychiatry Have to Social Sciences?	2001-10-31
US	44183278	R2Q07XQ2P0YIPU	051757702X	20548107	Martha Stewart's Healthy Quick Cook	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Beautiful But Flawed	Typical to a Martha enterprise, this book is well-conceived, thoughtful, and gorgeously produced.  It contains a wide variety of meals, arranged according to season.  This concept allows the cook to find recipes for foods that are fresh in the market and make the most of what is in peak flavor.  The recipes include familiar dishes with new twists and unique dishes that tempt.  Unfortunately, the recipes seem not to have been tested adequately, as sometimes the amounts were off or the cooking times were wrong.  This seems to be a problem in some of the recipes presented in the Martha Stewart Living magazine.  Also, ... not all of these dishes are exactly quick.  The criticism about underseasoning in the dishes is valid;  final products were at times quite bland.  In a cookbook de-emphasizing fats, use of herbs, spices, and seasonings becomes important.  For an experienced cook with a critical eye, this may be a source for ideas.  ...	2001-10-30
US	44183278	R1LUDRWVK6GGQK	0471287857	386550954	Culinary Artistry	Books	5	150	155	N	N	Wonderful Reference Material	I am a self-taught home cook who enjoys the activities of the kitchen.  I entered the cooking arena one of the standard ways, using cookbooks.  Collections of recipes familarized me with the techniques and ethnic cooking styles.  Gradually, my cookbook collection included reference books that provided some of the theory behind tastes and preparation styles.  Gold's 1-2-3 series, Peterson's Sauces, and others introduced to me the philosophies that allow a cook to go beyond mimicking a recipe to improvising and even creating a dish.  Culinary Artistry is perhaps the best available reference for learning about the traditions of combining flavors and food groups.<br />It contains vital information that I suspect is taught only in some of the culinary schools.  It provides valuable charts of information about cooking and menu planning.  The book contains sections on Menus, including a seasonality chart and a chart explaining successful seasoning combinations.  There is a section for Composing Flavors, the highlight of which is a chart showing successful food contrasts.  Another section involves Composing A Dish.  Here there is a chart showing great food matches and one showing seasoning matches.  The Composing A Menu section offers a chart showing frequent accompaniments to meats and paragraphs presenting theories about Hors Douevres, Cheeses, and Desserts.  This was a sparse and incomplete passage in an otherwise comprehensive book.  Finally, there was a fun section addressing the Evolution of Chef's Styles.  Here the authors provide sample menus comparing chef's offerings from earlier decades to their present day productions.<br />The volume offers multiple anecdotes, quotes, and side bars concerning the views of popular chefs.  Various recipes are interspersed to illustrate the principles.  My one criticism was that the book was laid out like a college textbook.  Photos, captions, quotes, highlighted lines, sidebars, and other areas compete on the same page, magazinestyle.  The book serves as reference, frequently glanced at rather than read straight through as a narrative.	2001-10-24
US	44183278	R1DUA78LUNNQYR	0060184698	486991602	The Paris Cookbook	Books	4	74	80	N	N	Appealing Fare	Wells has assembled a fine collection of recipes culled from the many wonderful restaurants in Paris, whose chefs she seems to know, and from other sources such as French magazines and newspapers.  What she seeks to present is a sampling of quintessentially French urban fare that reflects the tastes of a populace enamored with daily marketing, locally grown, fresh produce, and distinctive saucing.  The recipes are well written, clear for both newer and more seasoned cooks, and generally straight-forward, non-complex.  <br />Her instructions provide the rationale behind each dish, and her selections stray from the familiar French cuisine found in the myriad other cookbooks on the subject.  The book has a distinctive appearance, with B&amp;W photos displaying the cooks, restaurants, and markets rather than the food.  Wells is a connoiseur of food and other social features, and her writing is mildly pretentious, but the food is accessible and the dishes come out tasty and reliable.  <br />The book contains separate chapters for Appetizers, Salads, Breads, Vegetables, Potatoes, Pasta/Grains, Soups, Fish, Poultry, Meats, and Desserts.  Its offerings are produce friendly so that it works well for vegetarians.  Interesting recipes include the Aspargus Veloute, a soup made from the oft-discarded stems of the spears;  Carrot Salad with Cumin and Lemon Juice;  Spinach, Bacon, Tomato and Avocado Salad;  Asparagus and Arugula Salad; Zucchini Stuffered with Goat Cheese and Mint;  Jerusalem Artichoke Puree;  Cooked Carrots with Orange and Cumin;  Potatoes Anna;  Penne with Mustard and Chives;  Polenta Fries;  and Pumpkin Soup.  There are several bean dishes and polenta recipes.	2001-10-24
US	44183278	R1EY4YZL00BTOW	0316608742	19700163	The Elements of Taste	Books	3	57	60	N	N	Great Concept	What a great time to be buying cookbooks!  While we have for a long while had access to recipe collections and representations of the cuisine of various nationalities and popular restaurants, recently there has been a growing library of culinary tomes that give us the skills for producing creations of our own minds.  Titles such as Sauces by James Peterson, the 1-2-3 series by Roxanne Gold, Culinary Artistry, Great Wine Made Simple, and now this book provide us with the information about tastes and combinations of flavors and textures to deconstruct, reconstruct, and just plain construct familiar and novel dishes.<br />The Elements of Taste provides a brief introduction to the authors' theory of flavor.  They broadly group flavors into four categories based on the purpose they serve in a dish.  Thus, Tastes That Push represent the well-known seasonings that we use to balance sauces, for example:  Salty, Sweet, and Picante.  Tastes That Pull represent those taste elements that highlight underlying flavors.  The authors include here Tangy, Vinted, Floral/Herbal, Spiced Aromatic, Funky (pungents or musky flavors), and Bulby (what have commonly been called Aromatics such as onions and garlic).  Taste Platforms represent the textures upon which dishes are built.  These include Garden Platforms, Starchy ones, Oceanic ones, and Meaty ones (what the Japanese call umami).  Finally, the fourth category is Tastes That Punctuate, basically bitters that stop tastes and cleanse the palate.<br />This model is very useful one.  The authors seem not to have done their research in examining precursors to this model, and make little reference to other cuisines than the one they constructed for this book.  They neglect to include several important items, especially in the Platforms section (breads, pastries, soy products, seitan, and mushrooms as a basis for other flavors, for example).  There are similar, usually less complex models, already in the literature.  Kunz and Kaminsky's model is more extensive than most, however.  Surprisingly, they give little space in the book to theory.  The majority of pages is devoted to  recipes that demonstrate their combining philosophy.  The authors do not describe how they took the elements of taste and mixed them to concoct these dishes. (A reader must refer to Culinary Artistry for such guidelines.)  They do, however, provide tasting notes after each recipe that dissect the elements used in the dish.<br />The recipes are very complex, involving multiple steps and sub-recipes.  Even a cook enjoying kitchen challenges would be hard pressed to prepare a full meal using this book alone-- one would run out of burners and pans before the dishes were complete.  For example, the Honey Glazed Celeriac involves making the glaze, which is a reduction of wine and acids with sauteed aromatics sieved and kept warm, plus Celeriac slices baked and then broiled, plus a garnish of sauteed zucchini with chives, plus Ginger Curry Sauce, a mayonnaise of reduced wine and aromatics whisked with other ingredients.<br />The writing is an interesting, not entirely successful juxtaposition of aw-shucks, down-home attitude, sophisticated epicurean philosophy, and fancy foods.  The recipes are heavy on the Meaty and Oceanic food platforms, making this definitely a carnivore's cookbook.  Produce usually stands as garnish and accompaniment to the flesh.  In the end, the most special part of the book represent a few precious pages and is underdeveloped.  Perhaps a follow-up volume will expound on this interesting culinary model.	2001-10-24
US	44183278	R3MGGYAUGSKVEA	067978330X	289712823	Anna Karenina (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Domestic Psychology	This novel would be an enriching pleasure for anyone who thrills to absorbing, insightful fiction.  The massive work surveys Russian society, examining its mores, expectations, customs, and denizens in a detailed, enthralling way.  Tolstoy applies a sharp eye to the social situation of his day but also to human nature in general.  His wonderful attention to the appearance and gestures of his characters provides an exceptional counterpoint to the inner musings he charts.  By moving from viewpoint to viewpoint amongst the dozen or more primary characters, the reader is able to see the divided desires Tolstoy wants to explore.<br />Indeed, one of the themes of the novel is the complexity of human experience.  Within each of us are warring impulses and goals;  how we reconcile to these competing desires makes for fascinating reading.  Affiliative love versus sensual love, concern for another person versus self-pride, parenting duties versus desires for self-actualization, conformity versus self expression-- these and more conflicts are played out in a variety of social circumstances.<br />By the second quarter of the book, once most of the primary players have been introduced, the book moves into a series of set pieces, each nearly able to stand as a short story about relationships or circumstances.  The third quarter coalesces into the most absorbing interplay amongst the many characters, and the pages fly by.  By the last quarter, philosophical musings come more to the forefront, and the autobiographical aspects of the novel are in frank display.<br />Tolstoy's efforts to delve into human nature are rich, and he uses a great deal of detail, both internal and environmental, to provide both realism and a nearly stream of consciousness quality.  Considered in its historical context, the work is all the more impressive.  The plot does not necessitate all its characters to come together in a way that more modern works might insist, and so the book does not rely on chance and coincidence as much as on the psychology and propensities of its players.  What happens to each person seems at least as much due to their personality traits and actions as to fate.<br />The Modern library paperback edition that I read, although handsomely produced, suffered from rather poor proofreading.  Instances of lapsed punctuation such as missing quote marks and misspellings (&quot;herd&quot; for &quot;heard&quot;) were distracting.  The editors of this Garnett translation seemed to miss a number of awkward turns of phrase.  One chapter opens thusly:  &quot;When Vronsky got home, Anna was not yet home.&quot;  Perhaps most perplexing is the choice of Mona Simpson as author of the guest introduction.  Her merit for this project is not clear to me, and certainly her rambling, Larry King-like recollections of the novel seemed to trivialize this important work.nd coincidence as much as on the psychology and propensities of its players.  What happens to each person seems at least as much due to their personality traits and actions as to fate.<br />The Modern library paperback edition that I read, although handsomely produced, suffered from rather poor proofreading.  Instances of lapsed punctuation such as missing quote marks and misspellings (&quot;herd&quot; for &quot;heard&quot;) were distracting.  The editors of this Garnett translation seemed to miss a number of awkward turns of phrase.  One chapter opens thusly:  &quot;When Vronsky got home, Anna was not yet home.&quot;  Perhaps most perplexing is the choice of Mona Simpson as author of the guest introduction.  Her merit for this project is not clear to me, and certainly her rambling, Larry King-like recollections of the novel seemed to trivialize this important work.	2001-10-23
US	44183278	R25R2M280MQE3I	0688168272	145903213	The Best Vegetarian Recipes: From Greens to Grains, from Soups to Salads: 200 Bold Flavored Recipes	Books	4	37	37	N	N	Good Basic Vegetarian Cookbook	Shulman has authored a number of cookbooks, and although she is a former vegetarian, she knows food and cooking and she is familiar with the goals and hopes of current day vegetarian cooks. Her latest volume represents a good overview of veg cuisine, apart from the absence of most meat substitutes likes seitan. The book contains a very good soup selection, with a variety of both simple and complex stocks upon which to build soups. There are numerous frittata recipes and good selections for winter and fall dishes, for those who want to eat seasonally. Yellow Squash and Rice Gratin and Potato and Chard Gratin stand out. Shulman presents a number of polentas. Of the vegetable dishes, Leeks in Wine is the most unique. She emphasizes freshness and flavor in each recipe.  The book includes cooking tips for beginners and enough of her philosophy with food to make for interesting reading. For someone needing a basic cookbook, this would be a fine selection.	2001-09-14
US	44183278	R3DJSP8LOVQ8AH	1890132942	40138865	This Organic Life: Confessions of a Suburban Homesteader	Books	3	42	51	N	N	A Peek At Some Organic Issues	&quot;This Organic Life&quot; offers a crucial message about the importance of soil, a living part of the Earth and of our lives, and about how our food choices affect the health of the soil. Gussow makes this and some related points forcefully and repeatedly, and bravely offers up the example of her own decisions to enact a local-foods philosophy. <br />The writing suffers from underinvolvement of an editor. The work lacks focus, especially in the first half, when her marriage, her community, a search for a new home, remodeling, and other events compete with the &quot;Organic&quot; promised in the book's title. An editor would have been able to bring continuity and theme to these essays, which actually are a narrative of the middle age and early elderly eras of her life. Strong editing would also have eliminated the confusing (and really needless) details about the nature of her newly purchased house and the foot by foot descriptions of the lot. Verbal descriptions, at least of this kind, cannot provide a sense of the surely daunting prospects she and her husband faced in claiming their new plot of land.<br />The really interesting stuff is contained in the latter part of the book, where Gussow combines polemic with her adventures in gardening and storing food in her own yard and in the community garden she helped commence. Each of us who tries to live a commitment to sustainable and healthy participation in the natural coil struggle with a myriad of choices and compromises. We are hopeful that our journey towards responsible activity is a progressive one. I think an essential part of the journey is a frank acknowledgement of our limitations and contradictory behavior. Gussow makes some concession to hypocritical choices in food selection. She does not, however, recognize some of the other difficulties inherent in her recommendations.<br />For example, it is not clear to me that shifting the freezing of foods from the producers and supermarkets to a citizenry thathas one or more individual home freezers will result in less consumption of electricity and other resources. Gussow seems to be a consumer of a great deal of plastic and the role of this and other manufactured products (such as the huge amount of demolition waste from her home) in the health of the soil in land fills and dumps is not addressed. She is very vocal about the evils of transporting foods over long distances, at a high natural resources cost, for out-of-season consumption. Yet if we all we mailed crates of citrus in the winter and other food products from out of state, are we shifting the high resource consumption from the food service sector to the mail sector? Which is less wasteful?<br />Other topics I would have liked to have seen addressed involve the use of heritage seeds versus newer crop hybrids, how eating local foods improves health through localizing the mineral and environmental cycle of feeders, the ways that new homes can be built with more sustainable housing products, and energy-efficient, alternative ways of regulating home temperatures and providing storage. It seems that &quot;This Organic Life&quot; might better have been titled &quot;This Organic Eater&quot; or &quot;This Organic Gardener.&quot; The author does provide an interesting look at efforts we can make to improve our situation, and raises issues and questions that will extend the discussion without providing an ultimate solution.	2001-09-13
US	44183278	R2OWM4782ROHD8	0060935111	645364236	Cucina Rustica: Simple, Irresistible Recipes in the Rustic Italian Style	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Good Italian Dishes	I have had this cookbook for a number of years now, and give it as a gift to friends who like fresh-flavored, moderately complex to simple recipes. It is written by people who love this kind of food, know the genre, and seem to have made what they write about. The recipes are effective and the food works out each time.<br />The book contains a number of risotto dishes, several interesting bruschetta ideas (White Bean Puree with Garlicky Mustard Greens stands out), and a range of soups, notably Fennel and Tomato Soup and Cabbage and Rice Soup. Two great side dishes are Baked Endive and Braised Fennel.<br />As a vegertarian, I've found that many of the pasta and polenta dishes translate quite well. The authors are fond of ground sausage, sausage links, and especially pancetta. I've substituted, at the expense of authenticity but with minimal damage, vegetarian ground sausage, sausage links, and bacon. Polenta with Mushroom Saute and Polenta with Sausage and Tomato Sauce are hearty and delicious. Sausages Braised in Tomato and Orange Juice is unique and warming. Of the pasta dishes, Orechiette with Broccoli and Sausage, Orechiette with Sausage and Fennel, and Pasta with Onion Sauce are common in our house.	2001-09-13
US	44183278	R35J2M6FPK41DV	0140448047	655554658	Don Quixote (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Classic	This translation of Don Quixote fearlessly brings everyday language, bawdiness, and poetry to the timeless tale. Although the choice of using current slang may be a controversial one for some readers, it succeeds in giving the story an immediacy and restores the humor that was missing from more genteel translations. The novel is interesting because the two parts, written at different points in the author's life, have distinct styles and narrative structure. Just when the reader begins to fear that the plot will involve an endless string of ill-fated choices on the two protagonists' part, the second half of the novel introduces some devilish supporting characters to stir up trouble. Although this edition of the novel is nearly 1000 pages long, the chapters fly by quickly.	2001-09-08
US	44183278	RKOOWCJJFYR3C	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Puzzler	This novel has a quality of grabbing at the reader with its serials-style suspense plots and cliffhangers.  It is intricately constructed;  in fact, the author appears to have been so enamored of complexity in intertwined plots that he makes the reading labored at some points, the characters suffer from lack of dimensionality, and the narrative suffers from repeated structure, especially with the continuing trials and tribulations set forth by kidnappers and assassins.<br />Palliser clearly has researched history and literature in attempting to reconstruct a gothic sensation novel.  He provides almost an excess of period detail and the setting seems to take precedence over character development.  The protagonist clearly suffers within a web of intrigue but for all his speculation and effort the reader does not &quot;get into&quot; his feelings as much as his thoughts.  The villains are hateful and approach a &quot;mustache-twirling&quot; quality.  The remaining characters are vague and ill-defined, perhaps victims of the author's intention to have virtually everyone in the book a suspect for wrong-doing.  The most serious consequence of this character vagueness is that the resolution of the last peril episode is inadequately explained, for it hinges on a critical change in attitude by one of the major players.  The author's cleverness becomes problematic too when, in his sweeping attempt to make this epic cover many years and locales, the plethora of characters are called at some times by their first names, at others by their last names, at still others by nicknames, and some even have assumed monickers in addition!  The mystery thus takes on a confusing and frustrating quality.<br />The perils that befall the protagonist have the feel of serials publishing like Dickens and filmed entertainment like Saturday matinees and soap operas.  By sheer number the adventures become repetitious and at times strain credibility.  Also, particularly in the second quarter of the book, the perils were so sordid and revolting that I felt a sadist for continuing to read.  Palliser provides occasional relief from this when he has the protagonist make mention of a future thought, reassuring that the current nightmare is survived.  Of course, the ultimate fate of the main character is ensured by the narrative structure of the book (first person) and so it is the supporting characters for whom we must be most uncertain and fearful, to the extent that our emotional investment allows.  I felt the book resolved the mysteries and the events came together in the last few pages in a most satisfying way, with characters behaving with the ambivalence and uncertainty one would expect after such torturous experiences.  This novel is absolutely a tour de force in research, plotting, pace, and intricacy.  Its weaknesses in character development and human insight prevent it from achieving the depth of a Dickens or Bronte novel.  It is more on a par, perhaps, with a Radcliffe.	2001-08-21
US	44183278	R2OH4FY3OF4XA	055321229X	586419329	Silas Marner (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Eliot Sentiment	This book is as sentimental as &quot;Middlemarch&quot; is complex.  I found that the long introductory sections made for a difficult set up to the primary situation.  The narrative involving the actual bond between Marner and the child were condensed and telegraphed so quickly that the reader is forced to take the author's word that there was an attachment.  As a result, the emotional climax feels like a tear-jerker rather than an honest resolution of the characters' lives.  It gives the impression of a 19th century &quot;Afterschool Special.&quot;	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R27YJWA8YHKV0P	0674629752	881680855	Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory	Books	5	43	45	N	N	A Classic	An astounding piece of synthetic analysis of a very, very complicated field, this book has rightly been referrred to by scores and scores of subsequent writers in the field of psychoanalysis and personality theory.  The authors have critically scrutinzed the various schools of thought in the post-Freudian landscape and astutely determined their theoretical similarities and differences.  The writing is direct and persuasive, albeit intended for an audience familiar with psychological terminology.  It is amazing work and one of the best books in any field over the last 20 years.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R2X9KU4BM10B64	081221725X	62811011	The Scapegoat	Books	5	5	5	N	N	High Level Mystery	The author's style can be deceptively simple, yet the book stayed with me long after I finished it.  The story is presented with just the right blend of coincidence and will to make it believable, and the premise is wild but hugely enthralling.  The ending works from a realistic perspective, fortunately, and makes the tale resonate all the more.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R2LKM45MY8CRBM	0312113668	572571131	Toxic Psychiatry: Why Therapy, Empathy and Love Must Replace the Drugs, Electroshock, and Biochemical Theories of the "New Psychiatry"	Books	5	24	33	N	N	Breggin Manifesto	Although this book is written at a 4 star level, the subject matter is so important that it rates the highest recommendation.  The biological bias of psychiatry is so pervasive, the pharmaceutical approach so dogmatic, that abuses in the medical establishment are running rampant.  A book like this raises (and cannot answer) the question, How are psychiatrists and other physicians really different from street drug dealers when tranquilizing and artificial mood alteration are the name of the game?  Breggin cites an impressive list of research and scrutiny to refute the scientism backing the established approach.  His concern for children is foremost in evidence.  While a complete abolishment of psychiatric medication would be precipitous in some cases such as mania or suicidal depression, an industry-wide caution is much needed for the reasons cited here.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R1DI02H3JR3VKW	0898621992	120059445	Psychoanalytic Diagnosis: Understanding Personality Structure in the Clinical Process	Books	4	28	33	N	N	AN Important Addition To The Psychological Literature	This book offers a welcome and much needed alternative to the dogma-bound DSM used in psychiatry and psychology. It gives a theory-driven alternative that is elegant and can be applied to virtually any of the interpersonal and emotional problems mental health practitioners treat. McWilliams' use of a continuum of characterology, ranging from flexible to symptomatic to persistent to severe makes intuitive sense. The categories she describes will be familiar to anyone with a clinical background and again are resonant with common experience. <br />Two concerns: her use of &quot;Borderline&quot; is inconsistent throughout the book, used at times to denote a range between neurotic and psychotic and other times as a type, as in BPD. She inaccurately claims that the DSM uses BPD as a degree rather than type, when in fact it one of the several &quot;clusters&quot; of personality disorders, each distinct in presentation. My suggestion is to go with her psychological approach and eliminate the vague word &quot;Borderline&quot; altogether. Replace it with characterological and take Vaillant's advice to forget the &quot;kitchen sink&quot; BPD.<br />The other concern regards the Dissociative type of pathology. McWilliams ignores her own elegant heuristic when presenting these difficulties. She loses track of the neurotic-characterological-psychotic spectrum in which this type of pathology can present. A close reading of this section of the book suggests revisions for the next edition, which I hope will be forthcoming, as this is a wonderful text to use with students learning about so-called abnormal psychology.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R3STTP0N1ED2HP	0671888250	336782304	The Geography of Nowhere: The Rise and Decline of America's Man-Made Landscape	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hurrah!	A desperately needed howl of outrage describing the nature and origins of the U.S. landscape of ugliness and waste.  While this book doesn't delve so deeply into redress of the issues (the author covers that territory in his follow up book), he does paint in garish colors the problems we face.  Some complain about the complainers, but complacency got us into this mess, it seems.  This work stands as a sort of time capsule of current times in many ways, and as such is a book to be shared.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R9BG0ECX5FKT7	1561583774	449483164	Creating the Not So Big House: Insights and Ideas for the New American Home (Susanka)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Much Needed Common Sense	Where did house building in the U.S. go so horribly wrong?  Why is it everywhere we go we see ugly housing developments in which ugly houses face away from the roads onto barely usable culs-de-sac, absent of windows on their vinyl-clad sides?  Porches wide enough for furniture only to be lined up?  Garage doors the largest design element of the facade?  Windows unrelated to the size and shape of the building?  Soaring cathedral ceilings and arched dormer windows don't make up for the lack of relatedness of the basic design elements in our suburban dwellings.  This book provides some much-needed help in addressing the issues of design and usability in the home.  The author achieves her goal of drawing attention to many of the important issues and provides a visual as well as verbal vocabulary so that people can begin talking about these concepts.  I hope this book reaches every developer, contractor, and potential home builder so that the American landscape can start to feel like something to be proud of once again.	2001-08-02
US	44183278	R19EMWPPGYUDPA	0684852047	870627816	Spending: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Intriguing Book	I am reluctant with most modern fiction to give 5 stars;  it's always difficult to predict how well a novel will bear up over time, compared to the classics.  However, I'd be inclined to give this a higher rating.  I have read it twice and find the depiction of the protagonist intriguing.  She is presented warts and all, cranky, demanding, contradictory, hungry, humorous, self effacing and talented.  She seems like such a modern heroine, unlike the others in Gordon's typical novels.  She is like the women I have known.  The book presents her perspective well, showing her vacillating motives and desires.  It sets up a great situation and unwinds it in fascinating ways.  Yes, it has a pat, all-too-convenient plot development concerning money, but one can see why the author wanted to show a side of the protagonist that might have been difficult to spotlight otherwise.  I was reminded of the Erica Jong books I read as a teen, before Jong got so exhibitionistic.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RH4VQEAER0OVP	0195019199	101936467	A Pattern Language: Towns, Buildings, Construction (Center for Environmental Structure)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Classic	This book is well-reviewed here, and I won't repeat the details of the many things recommending the work.  It is, however, one of the 10 best books I've ever read, and serves as a political statement as well as it does as a manifesto of human-environmental theories.  Our separationist, consumer-oriented, alienated culture would do well to consider its many premises and suggestions for human life.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2YI0WKZKPQMP4	0688171613	269203476	Queer 13: Lesbian And Gay Writers Recall Seventh Grade	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great Collection	I am not a fan of the short story form, preferring the long immersion in fiction that novels offer.  This book is one of the few exceptions.  I received it as a gift and am glad I did.  The stories are thematically related and the writing is uniformly superior.  These tales so capture the deliciousness, awkwardness, hope, and disappointments of budding adolescence that I imagine anyone could relate.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R392D3W1UI812E	0394729382	880785910	Mickelsson's Ghost	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great Fiction	I've read this book seven times since it was published and have over the years hoarded copies because it is so difficult to find (and thus lend to those seeking a good read).  It is dense, complex, thought provoking, and even frustrating.  Gardner thrusts us immediately into the mind, emotions, and experiences of  the protagonist.  He creates an idea-filled treatise on modern life and its struggles, a mystery, a psychological ghost story, and a funny excoriation of academia.  It deserves more exposure than it got, but perhaps demands more of the reader than most want to give to a book.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2QZZSZ7PKO7F1	076790477X	708746530	Great Wine Made Simple: Straight Talk from a Master Sommelier	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Wonderful Education In Wine	Andrea Immer is a charming writer.  Her personality and unpretentious love of wine shine through on every page.  Additionally, she has created a framework for understanding wine that is easily comprehensible.  The information she provides is not arcane and so detailed that, like after reading many wine books, I put it away and promptly forgot everything.  Instead, she gives smart charts of information, comparisons of vital topics, and suggestions for wine tastings that really work to clarify the world of wine.  This is a highly usable book, very readable, and one will come away with a high regard for its author.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R194Z4Y57IRY5U	0679735798	980097844	Sexual Personae: Art and Decadence from Nefertiti to Emily Dickinson	Books	5	24	28	N	N	A Misunderstood Work	&quot;Sexual Personae&quot; is the type of galvanizing book that attracts much attention.  Camille Paglia is the type of person who seeks attention.  Because of her proclivities for media-grabbing, her shock-jock personality, her manic presentation, and some of her more mediocre popular writings, many people have formed an opinion of Dr. Paglia.  &quot;Sexual Personae&quot; unfortunately suffers as one of those volumes many have commented on but few have actually read.  It is unfairly equated with Paglia's other activity.<br />As one who has in fact read the book, twice by this point, I can say that it is well written, well considered, and an intellectually strong work.  Paglia has obviously pondered her premises extensively, and has sought liberal exposure to a wide array of supporting materials through the years.  This is a stunning masterwork and deserves to be read for its own sake rather than as a tool for politically polarized zealots to draw lines in the sand.<br />Her hypothesis stimulates thought.  She looks at gender roles and relations between the sexes as primary forces in cultural history specifically, in human history in general.  Paglia uses interesting tools such as the Apollo-Dionysus tension and the intellect-impulse continuum to examine the evidence she has assembled.  She places Art Nouveau in a new prominence in Western culture.  I believe that there is actually not so much in this book that reasonable people would find objectionable, for it is the kind of overview and survey that considers many facets of human life and is not as inclined to polemic as one might expect if they saw the author on the television.<br />Paglia's perspective and hypotheses are well served by her unique, highly engaging writing style.  Short sentences burst with vitality and fresh ideas.  Her outlook is singular and she is unafraid of, nay even drawn to, re-examining conventions.  I would recommend that everyone who has bashed or celebrated Paglia pick up the book.  Itis likely to surprise both camps.  It is best read straight through, but being a tour-de-force of daunting size, it can also be approached by seeking parts that address topics of interest.  It is a considerable accomplishment, and I suspect the regard it is given will increase as the author's pop culture reputation fades.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RTLSAH3RPFF6E	0140133488	520261516	Crossing to Safety	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Graceful Stegner	This warm, intimate book appeals to many who might find serious fiction too challenging.  It is gracefully written, humane, and emotional without being maudlin.  It straddles the fine line between greeting card sentiment and real insight without becoming saccharine.  Stegner shows here, as in &quot;Spectator Bird&quot; and &quot;Angle of Repose,&quot; his understanding of the ways couples stay together and navigate the emotional terrain of marriage and friendship.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2B67R2EAWEII0	0140263667	937889896	Recipes 1-2-3: Fabulous Food Using Only 3 Ingredients	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Something New In Cooking-- Really	Gold's approach to cooking is quite unique.  By using a limited number of ingredients she must make the plain flavors stand out by emphasizing their inherent qualities.  This differs from many culinary styles that strive for complexity of flavors and ranges of tastes within a dish.  The results are subtle and fresh tasting.  Readers should be warned, however, that 1-2-3 doesn't mean simple.  Many times the dishes are time consuming and have multiple steps such as roasting, sweating, blanching, baking, sauteing, and pureeing in order to showcase the flavors of the main ingredient.  I have made several dinners using only her cookbook, and three dishes can use up an impressive number of pots, pans, and appliances (fortunately I am not the dishwasher in my home).  At their best, the recipes using this simplicity concept are especially suited to wine pairings that enhance or complement the tastes.  I have incorporated a number of these dishes into my day to day repertoire:  Pasta with Broccoli-Sausage sauce (using vegetarian sausage), Pureed Potatoes, Celeriac Remoulade, Sausages (Vegetarian) with Asparagus Sauce, Pumpkin Pasta, Braised Endive, Baked Fennel, Pasta with Broccoli Sauce, Routabaga Soup, and others.  Gold is clearly writing from a large metropolitan center, and those of us in rural areas will have to adapt some of the more exotic ingredients.  She is, however, a cook's cook and has in this and subsequent books provided an individual epicurean style.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R26DY646F39VG9	0898158990	876129979	The Millennium Cookbook: Extraordinary Vegetarian Cuisine	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Gourmet Cuisine	Vegan or carnivore, people are impressed with and love food prepared from these recipes.  Sophisticated and complex, the dishes cover the globe in style.  When I first bought this book I became frustrated, being unused to saucing my dishes and not having both blender and food processor.  The time consuming procedures and multiplicity of steps were daunting and it sat on my shelf for a year.  I went back to it when I started entertaining and, renovation of my kitchen complete, found that I could indeed handle the recipes.  Some of the dishes are out of my range either because I don't have the means for smoking food or because in my rural Mid-Atlantic community there is not a farmer's market with the types of produce that San Francisco enjoys.  I am, however, all about the culinary philosophy that undergirds this book, and many of the recipes have been fantastic.  It is apparent that it was written in a restaurant kitchen but nevertheless it makes for superb holiday or entertaining meals.  Big hits have been the Latin-style Torte with Plantains and Tofu, the Filo-Wrapped Spring Rolls, the Hot and Sour Soup (which is Vietnamese in style), and the Pureed Root Vegetables.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2PNLWHOBDVKYZ	1570627444	852548265	Sex, Ecology, Spirituality: The Spirit of Evolution, Second Edition	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Wilber's Best	Out of the cottage industry of new and recycled Wilber works, this book comes as the best representation of his thinking.  In it, he is schematic and has tried to develop a theoretical framework on which to hang his ideas about what makes the universe run, in general, and human culture progress, in particular.  It is a better exposition than his somewhat egotistical &quot;Brief Explanation of Everything&quot; and provides more of the sources from which he derived his concept.<br />This is the type of book that will intrigue students, fuel New Age adherents, alert science followers, and probably anger traditionalists in the religious and scientism fields.  It is an interesting project.  I am always skeptical of works that purport to explain in relatively simple ways the complexity of the universe or of the human mind (let alone both), but welcome any systematic attempts at exploring these.  I bet there is a rising cult of Wilber followers, people who bring to the book various hopes or vaguenesses of discrimination that incline them to raise up a new prophet.  But taken for the methodical thinking and consideration of philosophical ideas that it represents, the book deserves to be honestly read and considered.  It would be interesting to see where Wilber would go with rigorous application of philosophical consideration or what serious commentators might add to the discussion.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R13X14ZUDFR9OA	0671787381	570738446	Easy Way Out	Books	5	3	4	N	N	McCauley's Best	While this book may not have the romantic appeal of the accessible &quot;Object Of My Affection,&quot; it does show a more astute psychological intuition and more sophisticated humor.  McCauley continues with his theme of examining the ways in which our lives are shaped and contorted by our ambivalent desires.  He develops his unique use of dialogue to telegraph traits the characters themselves are unaware of and create recognizable personalities.  His humor is character- and situation- based, undergirded by the bittersweet, even melancholy mood felt in all his books.  It is an unusually nuanced and insightful exploration of family dynamics and the complexities of adult romantic relationships.  I  believe it is one of the strongest examples of contemporary fiction and perhaps the best example of the growing &quot;gay literature.&quot;	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2K43M90WFW51D	006250195X	36609131	Belonging to the Universe: Explorations on the Frontiers of Science and Spirituality	Books	4	17	17	N	N	An Intriguing Project	The format of the book is to record the conversation between three men regarding science, theology, spirituality, and human nature.  I found the discussions of theology in particular to be interesting, as one of the discussants is a monk.  The topics are covered in a non-dogmatic way, with a genuine questing spirituality evident.  Without descending into New Age pap, the book explores fresh ways of approaching tradition in science and religion.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RFYD08VPWPR7	1574230735	421269362	Dawn: An Autobiography of Early Youth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Incredible Memoir Writing	&quot;Dawn&quot; may be stronger than Dreiser's fiction, which is saying a good deal.  He shows a remarkable memory and attention to detail.  I am admittedly biased because I identified so closely with his experiences as a child, youth, and adult, but the scenes in this volume are well drawn and he overcomes his sometimes florid style and difficulties with fluid language well here.  Along with &quot;Newspaper Days,&quot; one gets an intimate look at the life of this talented and important author.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R3KZPI7UIKJBW6	0192837133	799629669	The Romance of the Forest (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	4	12	N	N	Stereotypical Gothic	The contrived situations, coincidences, and overwrought events in this book overwhelm what little character insight and logic are there.  Plot-driven, it does engage the way an old fashioned horror movie might, but there are repetitious circlings in the narrative and such helplessness in the protagonist that reader frustration is inevitable.  I would have loved this book as a young teen had I been able to master the older English.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RB3XHO1VQO7GM	0899682065	752534978	Genius	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Semi-autobiographical Dreiser Novel	I sought this novel to supplement the memoirs &quot;Dawn&quot; and &quot;Newspaper Days&quot; as a way to gain additional insight into Theodore Dreiser's intriguing personality.  I was not disappointed.  The book provides information about Dreiser's sexual appetite, motivations, and philosophy.  It also is an engaging read in the way that &quot;Sister Carrie&quot; and &quot;Jennie Gerhart&quot; are.  Sure, Dreiser can go on in detail in ways that an editor could have made more succinct, and his sentence structure could become byzantine or odd.  But the plot is well structured and the sense of impending doom that crops up is mercifully relented so that the novel does not become as squirm-inducing as &quot;An Amercian Tragedy.&quot;  The reader's sympathy is evenly divided among the principles and the events are seen as fate intertwining with the forces and choices of the personalities.  Dreiser even more than Sinclair Lewis is my favorite depictor of U.S. life early in the 20th century.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RXZE7RXQO82O5	0870527541	319570483	The Birth of Christianity: Reality and Myth	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Strongest Historical Accounting of Christian History	Carmichael provides a wonderfully tight account of the early events of the time of Jesus and afterwards.  For readers in any way familiar with history rather than the apologetics that made mythology of the Jesus story, this book will provide the most cogent view of the available knowledge.  He accounts for the events in ways that make sense, considering the religious, political, and cultural contexts of the Mid-East.  This book made apparent to me why the magical stories arose and why the maneuverings of Paul enfolded as they did.  Carmichael's progression of ideas is a bit confusing, and I found that reading the notes first made the going easier.  Nevertheless, his historianship makes this the best of the growing ranks of &quot;historical Jesus&quot; books available.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R2QXILKIJ7J93S	0140437460	124519810	Uncle Silas (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gothic Greatness	&quot;Uncle Silas&quot; offers the elements of the Gothic tradition but surpasses all offerings I have encountered.  Le Fanu's writing style is more direct and accessible and his psychological insight  allows for less reliance on coincidence than, say, Bronte's &quot;Jane Eyre&quot; or Radcliffe's &quot;Romance of the Forest.&quot;  The characters advance the plot and the plot is riveting.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R33O6VE7O0BPGT	0312168675	33065472	How Long Has This Been Going On (Stonewall Inn Editions)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Among The Best Of Gay Fiction	The first time I read this book I found the large cast of characters distracting.  The weaving in and about among their stories made it confusing to keep them clear.  I was, nevertheless, engaged with the progression of plot events and the march of time.  I later gave it to my partner to read and found myself reading over his shoulder.  I re-read the book and could this time appreciate the entwined plot details and especially the symbolizing of this era of our society in the characters' lives.  This very difficult and challenging task has been handled well by the author.  The book serves as both education and fiction.  It is wonderful.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R38R0ZB4X2OG62	0192832549	233776274	The Italian: Or the Confessional of the Black Penitents; A Romance (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	2	2	9	N	N	A Difficult Read	I found &quot;The Italian&quot; to be less satisfying, more lurid, more obscure, and harder going than &quot;Romance of the Forest.&quot;  The plot moves slowly and the punctuation of this edition was a definite impediment for me.  The decadent qualities, atmosphere of depravity, and character style were intentional, I realize, but I found this book to be mired in its genre, cardboard in character development, and unrewarding.  I enjoyed the similar &quot;Uncle Silas&quot; far more.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R3P3HLSA3G2385	0688174663	122067907	Mexican Light: Exciting, Healthy Dishes From The Border And Beyond	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Great Mexican	This is one of the best of the Mexican cookbooks for people who want to incorporate food more authentic than &quot;Tex-Mex,&quot; cheese-smothered dishes into a health-conscious lifestyle.  While the dishes aren't meant to be historically and culturally precise, they do in my opinion represent the progression in Mexican cooking that has been overdue.  A vegetarian-friendly cookbook, &quot;Mexican Light&quot; was written by a woman who clearly has eaten what she cooks, and has tinkered extensively with her creations to come up with just the right textures, flavors, and spices.  The recipes run the gamut and can be made every day or for special occasions.  Her approaches for fat-free chips have eliminated store-bought kinds in my household.  The tostadas, blackbean-and-tomato soup, quesadillas, and pureed fruit desserts are wonderful.  The potato-and-chicken soup with lime is fantastic and simple, easily converted to vegetarian by substituting seitan for the chicken.  The chayote-and-yam stew is a favorite amongst my friends, as is the potato-and corn salad.  The corn soup dish, while time consuming, is spectacular and makes the best of sweet corn in August.  The most-made dish in my house is the green chilaquiles, totally unique and better in her recipe than any I've had in a restaurant.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R1JCRU8TCO05U0	1584790407	594977193	Healthy 1-2-3: The Ultimate Three-Ingredient Cookbook, Fat-Free, Low Fat, Low Calorie	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Culmination Of A Culinary Style	This book represents Gold's masterwork.  It takes the simplicity concept to its best application, namely a cuisine that is sustainable across every night of the week.  By simplicity, I mean singularity of taste, not ease of preparation.  The majority of dishes here are probably more suited to people who like to spend time in the kitchen and enjoy new challenges, although many recipes are not difficult.  Gold does not present a &quot;one pot&quot; style of cooking, but the results are worth it.  Her palate is sophisticated and her books have educated my own taste buds and appreciation of food stuffs.<br />These dishes are healthy but not restricted in ingredient types.  Cheeses and oils are frequently found, satisfying the diner but not overwhelming the meals in fats or calories.  To eat from this cookbook is to enjoy a wide range of foods, including hints of rich ones, but to be health conscious and to adhere to smart consumption guidelines.  Gold presents produce-plentiful dishes, gorgeously photographed and presented.  She also provides her most personal, intimate writing, abandoning any connoirseurship of the well-connected New York chef in favor of telling her private motivations for writing this book.  She gives us a most interesting point of view in the crowded cookbook arena.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R34JWZ0OAKNKW6	0345368096	340063580	The Passion of the Western Mind: Understanding the Ideas that Have Shaped Our World View	Books	5	41	51	N	N	History and Philosophy Overview	Tarnas has produced in this book an accessible review of Western cultural developments.  By condensing, sensing patterns, and editing as an author inevitably must, he omits some of what more specialized readers might want.  However, his intention is less encyclopedic completeness than a hypothesis about the trajectory of Western cultural change.  To this end he writes engagingly and informatively.  His synthetic, pattern-sensing thought about history is interesting.  He appears overly influenced by newer trends in theories about gender roles, psychology, and spirituality.  Here he resembles Leonard Schlain of the &quot;Goddess and the Alphabet&quot; ramblings. By the last chapter he is fully immersed in speculation that many, myself included, find unjustified by the preceding survey and assembly of evidence.  However, speculation is the stuff of philosophers and theoreticians, and I wouldn't necessarily dismiss the body of the book because of disagreements with Tarnas' prognostications.  Alongside other surveys like Daniel Robinson's &quot;Intellectual History of Psychology&quot; and Robert Kegan's &quot;In Over Our Heads,&quot; readers can derive fascinating insights about cultural development.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R3VAHWRAIE8UYA	0674445880	616589107	In Over Our Heads: The Mental Demands of Modern Life	Books	5	89	93	N	N	An Incredible Book	This tour-de-force does much to explain how people's interactions are affected by their developmental stage and goes a long way toward fleshing out adult developmental theories.  It hypothesizes that mental development is intricately entwined with world view and one's understanding of events and roles.  It explains relations between romantic partners, family members, communities, and cultures.  Kegan's hypotheses are informed, but not limited, by existing psychological frameworks.  He is like a sociologist in his outlook and a psychologist in his theorizing.  He writes about sophisticated ideas and complex topics in a clear and approachable way.  His conception of mental development is not easy to grasp in its entirety but pondering it is well worth the effort.  The book is one of the best written in the last 20 years in any field.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	RZRMNFN2RS8D2	0395859948	834028844	Truth Serum: A Memoir	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Cooper's Best	Far and away the strongest material Cooper has written, &quot;Truth Serum&quot; is one of the best memoirs I've ever encountered.  It ranks with Theodore Dreiser's &quot;Dawn&quot; as a stunning evocation of early life.  His language is fluid and beautiful.  He writes about childhood as vividly as if he were watching intimate scenes from his past on a movie screen.  Except that he describes feelings and thoughts-- unfilmable-- so freshly.  The reader enters into the child Cooper's head and perceptions in astonishing ways.  This is exceptional writing and the sense of immediacy (with the exception of the abstract final piece) is wonderful.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R3QZP1LCHE66BU	0299148440	429638746	An Intellectual History of Psychology	Books	5	51	55	N	N	Cream Of The Psychology Crop	The rare psychology tome that doesn't mistake psychology's history for history in general!  The learned Robinson can stand back enough to place the nascent &quot;science&quot; of psychology within the field of human meta-thought that started at least amongst the Greek philosophers.  The book provides a cogent survey of developments in theories that are psychological in nature. The author demonstrates how many of the big deals amongst today's academic psychological concepts were anticipated long ago but forgottten when, I assume, liberal arts education and philosophy became passe.  In so doing, he is able to distill from the fractured, specialized field of the current  psychology scene what is vital, relevant, and productive.  By using a historical context, he allows us to see the real progress of ideas instead of being distracted by the yipping of scientism's mutts.  I have read earlier editions of this book twice, and plan to continue re-reading it periodically.	2001-08-01
US	44183278	R1HMBDW6CM4XLA	0028619838	922779834	Vegetarian Times Low-Fat & Fast Asian	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Accuracy In Advertising	The title of this book says it all-- the recipes are healthy and rapidly made.  They sample a variety of Asian cuisines and, although not always culturally accurate, they do a good job of allowing for fresher, better seasoned, and healthier dinners than the majority of take-out places in the U.S. provide.  A good version of Tom Yum soup is included, as are Spicy Potatoes and a tasty concoction called Shanghai Noodles.  Some of the preparation times may be a bit optimistic, dependent on your chopping and mincing speeds, but the majority of dishes can be quickly assembled.  They will be quickly eaten.	2001-08-01
