US	44225654	RBI48M1IRKFU2	8187967110	978562024	Thought is Your Enemy: Conversations with U.G. Krishnamurti	Books	4	10	13	N	N	U. G. KRISHNAMURTI	The UG. books are all dialogues between UG and others that were recorded on various topics. U.G. Krishnamurti is definately a character in the \\"spiritual\\" (he dislikes that word associated with him)community.  It is quite difficult to describe him and his system of thought since he doesn't really have one. I will attempt to do so only for the sake of the reader, not that it will be totally accurate since it will still be a label which he would probably himself disagree with. He's part philospher, guru, social commentator, and ironically-an anti-guru.  He seems to be a self realized man. His main attitude about spirituality is that of pointing out the traps of all these spiritual systems and the gimmicks, money making, scamish guru businesses that have existed over time. In short, pointing out the stranglehold that society can create in an individual who has been sucked into the system of always trying to fix yourself, change, improve or naively following a false spiritual teaching only to become more confused than when you started. His books do a lot of bashing. He's not a gentle, passive kind of guy, he's more a negator of man made concepts and their many traps. Mostly he's tearing down ideologies not creating them.  Most of what he says makes for stimulating contemplation. You may not agree with it at first, but he plants a seed in you that germinates later, and makes you question. He even can come across a bit repulsive at first because he's so on the attack always.  UG Krishnamurti is not to be confused with the famous J. Krishnamurti who UG personally knew and criticizes because he felt that although J. Krishnamurti kept claiming the \\"no guru is necessary\\" philosophy, UG. felt that he was being hypocritical since his teachings became a bit of a system that was very institutionalized and JK came out with dozens of books and got trapped in his own following, so U.G. Krishnamurti argues that JK. was in essence another self-inflated guru with a gimmicky system.  It's a bit difficult to get a direct positive outcome of U.G. Krishnamurti's teachings because most of the time he's on the negative, discarding mode, however in the discarding process, one can be forced to give up these gimmicks and sytems and learn to just BE once again. Function from a more natural state of BEING instead of DOING practices all the time and always projecting an idea of fixing yourself in the future-which ironically never arrives.  My slight gripe with UG. is that while I on the whole agree very much with what he is saying, there is a way to move in the direction of Self-Knowledge without falling into gimmicks and sytems that trap us. There have been a few very good teachers along the centuries that have warned seekers to investigate their true nature without falling prey to systems and concepts but also gave students more concrete pointers, which UG never really does. However, in his defense he is not claiming to be a Guru. With that said, I still find him to be a very interesting character for ripe seekers who can handle his very iconaclastic, irreverent style.  For \\"no-nonsense\\" type \\"seekers\\" that enjoy these types of teachings I recommend Nisargadatta Maharaj. His teachings are also very direct, especially the books of his talks that came out after I AM THAT, like 'Consciousness and the Absolute', 'Prior To Consciousness' and 'The Ultimate Medicine' to name just 3. Nisargadatta Maharaj while also being a annhilator of mind made concepts for the spiritual seeker, offers a slightly different tone that is direct yet a bit more practical than UG. He also taught seekers to tenaciously avoid sytems, gimmicks and the trap of creating a web of spiritual concepts that trip you up in the end. He also never quotes from any scriptures or parroted anybody and encouraged you to do the same. However, he did teach that after all the discarding of concepts one can come to the place of Self-Knowledge, so he does have a bit of a \\"teaching\\" however it comes more from rigorous self-investigation, not a system.  U.G. Krishnamurti is definately a character in the \\"spiritual\\" (he dislikes that word associated with him)community.  It is quite difficult to describe him and his system of thought since he doesn't really have one. I will attempt to do so only for the sake of the reader, not that it will be totally accurate since it will still be a label which he would probably himself disagree with. He's part philospher, guru, social commentator, and ironically-an anti-guru.  He seems to be a self realized man. His main attitude is that of breaking down all these spiritual systems, gimmicks, money making, scamish guru businesses. In short, pointing out the stranglehold that society can create in an individual who has been sucked into the system of always trying to fix yourself, change, improve or naively following a false spiritual teaching only to become more confused than when you started. His books do a lot of bashing. He's not a gentle, passive kind of guy, he's a negator of man made concepts and their many traps. Mostly he's tearing down ideologies not creating them.  Most of what he says makes for stimulating contemplation. You may not agree with it at first, but he plants a seed in you that germinates later, and makes you question. He even can come across a bit repulsive because he's so on the attack always.  UG Krishnamurti is not to be confused with the famous J. Krishnamurti who UG personally knew and criticizes because he felt that although J. Krishnamurti kept claiming the \\"no guru is necessary\\" philosophy, UG. felt that he was being hypocritical since his teachings became a bit of a system that was very institutionalized and JK came out with dozens of books and got trapped in his own following, so U.G. Krishnamurti argues that JK. was in essence another self-inflated guru with a gimmicky system.  It's a bit difficult to get a direct positive outcome of U.G. Krishnamurti's teachings because most of the time he's on the negative, discarding mode, however in the discarding process, one can be forced to give up these gimmicks and sytems and learn to just BE once again. Function from a more natural state of BEING instead of DOING practices all the time and always projecting an idea of fixing yourself in the future-which ironically never arrives.  My slight gripe with UG. is that while I on the whole agree very much with what he is saying, there is a way to move in the direction of Self-Knowledge without falling into gimmicks and sytems that trap us. There have been a few very good teachers along the centuries that have warned seekers to investigate their true nature without falling prey to systems and concepts but also gave students more concrete pointers, which UG never really does. However, in his defense he is not claiming to be a Guru. With that said, I still find him to be a very interesting character for ripe seekers who can handle his very iconaclastic, irreverent style.  For \\"no-nonsense\\" type \\"seekers\\" that enjoy these types of teachings I very strongly recommend Nisargadatta Maharaj.  His teachings are also very direct, especially the books of his talks that came out after I AM THAT, like 'Consciousness and the Absolute', 'Prior To Consciousness' and 'The Ultimate Medicine' to name just 3.  Nisargadatta Maharaj while also being a annhilator of mind made concepts for the spiritual seeker, offers a slightly different tone that is direct yet a bit more practical than UG. He also taught seekers to tenaciously avoid sytems, gimmicks and the trap of creating a web of spiritual concepts that trip you up in the end. He also never quotes from any scriptures or parroted anybody and encouraged you to do the same.  However, he did teach that after all the discarding of concepts one can come to the place of Self-Realization, so he does have a bit of a \\"teaching\\" however it comes more from rigorous self-investigation, not a system. He was one of the few gurus that never got trapped in theirfollowing and who sincerely pointed earnest seekers in the right direction towards Self-Realization.	2005-06-06
US	44225654	R39AYFN6JRP82D	8170303907	280939367	Shiva-Sutra Vimarsini of Ksemaraja: A Study and Translation (Sri Garib Dass Oriental)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Outstanding Piece of Spiritual Literature	I looked through about 6 copies of the Shiva Sutras trying to find one that makes good solid sense and this one is by very far the best!<br /><br />The writer/interpreter really has a deep grasp of the depth of these limited yet powerful words that are succint teachings into the Absolute Reality.<br /><br />After reading this version, I can't stress how impressed I am with it.  Not only is the translation of the text the best I've come across, but the commentary is exceptional.<br /><br />I can't recommend this version enough. Rest assured that this one is solid and does not either misinterpet or twist the commentary to fit a particular ideolgy pushed forth (like I found some of the other ones did).  This version just really puts the text under a miscroscope and brings out the teachings in a clear manner.<br /><br />The essence of non-dual self realization is very well captured here.  What is the core teaching of this wonderful book?<br /><br />Everthing is undifferentiated Consciousness.<br /><br />Shiva is undifferentiated Consciousness.<br /><br />You are Shiva.	2004-11-05
US	44225654	R32A2ZC6K26NGB	0875166652	159885867	Nine Faces of Christ: Quest of the True Initiate	Books	5	63	66	N	N	A great seekers guide to the Christ process	This is a fascinating book for anyone who is an earnest seeker of enlightenment and has a fascination with Jesus Christ but is not into fundamentalist christian ideas and instead views Christ as a great spiritual master whose true teachings only come to us in fragments through the New Testament.  Although this book is not directly a book about uncovering the real Jesus, one can certainly make a lot of sense out of the gospels with this interesting book.    The main character of our story is one Jeshua Joseph-bar-Joseph.  The author takes us through a story that pretty much unfolds exactly the way it does in the New Testament gospels, however in this version the author has put a lot of emphasis on the back story of how Jeshua has become a Christ.  It isn't just a man born a \\"divine perfected being\\", Jeshua has to earn his Christhood through much training and many, many challenges.  We get to see HOW he came upon all this great wisdom and ability.  We get to see all the great trials Jeshua went through before he went out to deliver his message to the masses.  Basically, we get to see a kind of Christ training process.  One great thing is we see Jeshua challenged all along the way.  Even after he has achieved great heights of exalted consciousness, he still continues to grow and be challenged.  It has a very human quality to it that we can all identify with.  It's not just \\"one day while praying he saw the Light and from then on he was the perfected Christ\\".  No, this book has Jeshua really challenged at times while in the process. His core is always very strong and resiliant, but in this story we are shown some \\"growing pains\\".  Enough to make this story quite inspirational because of how we all can identify with Jeshua trials and tribulations, how we all need to stay focused on staying strong during those challenging times that bring us those break-throughs,it is a story that resonates with our own process of growth. It makes one realize that Enlightenment is more than just having blissful meditations.  Christ consciousness only comes from really pushing past your comfort zones spiritually!  So many things in the New Testament make so much more sense after reading this or at least can be viewed in a new light.......One of the most interesting books I've ever read of  the \\"New Age\\" Christ works.	2004-06-08
US	44225654	R2NMWLAFC8RLMH	1561708127	467648079	There Is A Spiritual Solution to Every Problem	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Dose of Magic	This is a great series of tapes put out by Wayne Dyer.  In this program he covers all areas of life, health, enlightenment, prosperity, love, happiness and many other areas.  If you live with doubt and feel disconnected spiritually, this is the program for you!  Wayne has always had a gift of making spirituality very, very accessable and even fun.  These tapes are a great example of that.    As usual, he also directs you to a vast array of resources that even go beyond his teachings and directs you to other great books and teachers out there to continue your spiritual practices.  Also, some of the current scientific proof for understanding the power of Spirit.  You will find many upbeat stories and explanations of manifesting your destiny in these cassettes.	2004-06-04
US	44225654	R1FOUM2OJFGR37	0061091502	901092373	Real Magic: Creating Miracles in Everyday Life	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Simple yet profound Spiritual Gem	This book is so profound that I actually find it difficult to sit down and write about it because I feel intimidated that I cannot give it the justice it deserves and won't be able to aptly express my appreciation of this little yet very profound spiritual gem.<BR>I first read this book about 10 years ago.  It was the 1st spiritual book I had ever read.  Within a few days my life was completely transformed.  Yes, I said a few days.  Just from following Wayne's very simple advice.  It is so simple, it can actually be deceptive.  We tend to brush these very simple principles off for more &quot;intensive&quot; teachings.  We want something that gets into things like past psychoanalysis or something more &quot;complex&quot; that involves a lot of either writing journals, goal setting or some very &quot;deep&quot; philosphy that is usually quite dry but we force ourselves to read these things due to how supposedly &quot;deep&quot; these thinkers were.<BR>Then comes along a little book like &quot;Real Magic&quot; that is basically just teaching you that we can align ourselves with 'purpose'(realizing that we are spiritual beings having a human experience)and living every moment aligned with that and living our lives based on cultivating 'Knowings' instead of fear and doubt.  <BR>Of course that is just an abbreviation of the teachings, but those are the 2 main points that continuously come up throughout the whole book.<BR>I don't know how Wayne managed to do it, but please trust me when I say this book is a very, very special book.  I have read almost all of Wayne's book and they are all a variation of the same spiritual theme, but for some reason, I find this book to be just so effective, simple and magical. Even more than all his others to date.<BR>Now, even though I said that it changed my life in a few days, that does not mean that I didn't have huge challenges from the time I discovered 'Real Magic', times where I gave up on these teachings and dismissed them due to being &quot;overly simplistic&quot;.   No matter how many times I feel that way, I always eventually come back to the foundation of these teachings and realize that these universal principles are so profound, life changing and spiritually enlightening.  <BR>What I've learned over the years are 2 main things about this book: not to read this book as just another pop &quot;positive thinking&quot; book.  That is not what makes this book magical.  What makes it magical, is that Wayne found a way to create an extremely accessable book that will bring you closer to Spirit and the power of 'knowing'. The second thing is that like anything else, it takes a certain discipline and persevearance to make this work for a lifetime.  It doesn't just &quot;click&quot; for life.  There are times when one needs to really use the muscle of intention to keep it together.  That is sometimes overlooked because we think that it should just 'flow' always.  It doesn't quite work that way. However, eventually, your connection to Source deepens more and more and your connection becomes effortless most of the time.<BR>This is really a book about finding your true essence and manifesting miracles in the physical world.   The outcome is joy and peace and a world where your deepest desires pop up and you manage the coincidences of your life...I'm not exaggerating when I say that!! <BR>You are Light, Spirit and Magic, this book will very simply teach how to access that domain of Heaven on Earth.	2004-05-30
US	44225654	R4YIRWOYC9UVA	0685835294	994304998	Jeet Kune Do: The Art and Philosophy of Bruce Lee	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Warrior Art	This book teaches one how to kick freaking ass if neccessary.<BR>Of course Dan Inosanto includes the philosophical aspects of JKD in this book, so it's not all about 'ass-whoppin' but the ass kicking part is great.<BR>Keep in mind that Dan Inosanto is considered pretty much the co-creator of JKD.  He helped Bruce Lee all along the way so he deserves credit as being co-creator (almost).<BR>Also, keep in mind that JKD is not so much a rigid system as much as it is a way of staying flexible and being efficient in your fighting skills.  Understanding the Tao (way,system,flow)of fighting, not so much really a 'style' per se.  Bruce Lee in his later years was very clear on that.  He didn't want it to be seen as yet another style as much as a whole philosphical/spiritual system to bring into your fighting that can bring one closer to spiritual enlightenment.  <BR>So, get this book, learn to get to enlightenment through physical action and kick freakin ass (in self-defense).	2004-05-01
US	44225654	RH25JPVMZ98F3	0892131233	561265045	Bhagavad-Gita As It Is	Books	4	16	21	N	N	Bhagavad Gita Wisdom and practices	After having read this version of the Bhagavad Gita, I still do not in any way shape or form consider myself to be a follower of the Hare Krishna religion.  I read this primarily as a seeker who was curious to read another version of the Gita.  I want to make it clear that this version is definately a religious version of the Gita.  It is the bible of the Hare Krishnas.  With that said, I want to say that even though I still mainly have an interest in other systems of spiritual thought other than the Hare Krishna religion, there are some very good guidelines laid out here for many.  The main thing I want to praise is the great power and simplicity of the Mantra that is put forth in these teachings.  I have tried many different spiritual practices and I feel that one of the easiest and most powerful is chanting the Name of God (japa).  The Mantra offered here is a great practice that we can all follow.  I tend to be somewhat of an intellectual when it comes to spirtuality and I resisted chanting because it seemed...well...stupid.  I finally tried it after reading a different book that spoke of the great power of chanting the name of God, I rememembered the Hare Krishna mantra and I am deeply impressed with the results.  I know of no other spiritual practice that is so simple (you can even down it while driving) and yet as powerful.   After a session of chanting you feel deeply connected to your Self.<BR>Even for those that do not intend to convert to this religion, if your looking for a great and simple spiritual practice, you can't go wrong with this chant.  I leave you with the Maha Mantra:<BR>HARE KRISNA, HARE KRISHA, KRISHNA, KRISHNA, HARE HARE, HARE RAMA, HARE RAMA, RAMA RAMA, HARE HARE.	2004-04-14
US	44225654	R2XKYQYK9EHG6S	1884997147	554342932	The Experience of Nothingness: Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj's Talks on Realizing the Infinite	Books	5	58	59	N	N	The Powerful Discourses of Nisargadatta Maharaj	These are among the final talks that Nisargadatta gave in the last year of his life or so.  In this powerful book of Q & A between teacher and seeker we have some extremely detailed and terse teachings on the Nature of Reality.  Nisargadatta's answers cut to the chase and go right to the Heart of the Absolute.  One of the reasons for the sharpness of the teachings is because he is physically suffering due to throat cancer and nevertheless continues to teach throughout his illness (he continued to teach until hours before his physical death).  For those that don't know his work too well, what is considered his main work is I AM THAT, which is recommended to begin the study of his teachings, after I AM THAT came a series of about 6 books, all within the last 2 years of his life.  The post I AM THAT books are all uncompromisingly direct and sharp.  He speaks only from realization of the Unborn state and gives all his discources from there, making it tricky to understand for some.  With the combination of being ill and with 42 years of teaching experience at this point, he keeps his talks very focused.    In this great work, we see his expertise in that he doesn't just point to the Absolute reality with a lot of poetic words, he also deconstructs your preciously held self.   He tirelessly breaks down concepts and spiritual ideas we don't want to let go of.  One can say in this work we are privledged to see very \\"advanced\\" teachings.  Teachings that will appeal to seekers that can go beyond just pretty ideas of spirituality, bliss out states, any form of personal gain whatsoever (because you're understanding yourself as the Impersonal Reality). He even challenges one particular seeker in this book to leave spirituality because he knows that this particular seeker is caught up being a \\"spiritual seeker\\" and isn't ready to go beyond the body-mind sense, he fears death of the personality.  No flowery, superficial hand holding here!  The essence of his teachings is: understand your \\"I am-ness\\" or consciousness, go deeply into that and awake from your daydream as that body-mind entity you think you are and  apperceive yourself as the Unborn.  I felt deeply privledged to read this wonderful book.      \\"What do you understand by the word dream?  Is not the dream something like a drama, a play?...To one who really understands what has been said here, a dream is no different from what is seen in the waking state: both are plays of consciousness... We call one thing the waking state, another thing the dream, but in essence both are events happening in the consciousness and essentially they are not different.\\"    \\" When you are liberated from the body/mind sense, so that you are not the body mind, that itself is liberation.\\"<BR Nisargadatta Maharaj	2004-03-17
US	44225654	R3TMHCYC4FTIO4	1878019201	644937810	The Wisdom - Teachings of Nisargadatta Maharaj: A Visual Journey	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great Photo Filled Nisargadatta Book of Short Quotes	This wonderful book is covered with the great wisdom of Nisargadatta Maharaj and many rare photos of the great sage.  His timeless message is captured in this great book with short, direct quotes the compiler recorded in studying with Nisargadatta.  One outstanding quality of this book is that it offers the great teachings of Self-Realization in short aphorisms that capture the essence of non-duality teachings with a true economy of words.    The main focus of the teachings is intuitively knowing your \\"I AM-ness\\" or Consciousness, going deeply into it so that you wake up to your true nature as the Unborn.  I recommend adding it to your library of spiritual gems.  His teachings are always very direct and powerful, right to the Heart of the Absolute Reality!    \\"If you want the happiness of self, get rid of the body-mind sense\\"      \\"Nothing is done by me, everything just happens I do not expect, I do not plan, I just watch events happening, knowing them to be unreal.\\"    \\"You do not have any problems, only your body has problems...In your world, nothing stays, in mine nothing changes.\\"                       Nisargadatta Maharaj	2004-03-16
US	44225654	R7HB3LG8LK3C9	0971078610	191927664	The Mystique of Enlightenment: The Radical Ideas of U.G. Krishnamurti	Books	4	17	18	N	N	The Mystique of a man called UG.	The UG. books are all dialogues between UG and others that were recorded on various topics. U.G. Krishnamurti is definately a character in the \\"spiritual\\" (he dislikes that word associated with him)community.  It is quite difficult to describe him and his system of thought since he doesn't really have one. I will attempt to do so only for the sake of the reader, not that it will be totally accurate since it will still be a label which he would probably himself disagree with. He's part philospher, guru, social commentator, and ironically-an anti-guru.  He seems to be a self realized man. His main attitude about spirituality is that of pointing out the traps of all these spiritual systems and the gimmicks, money making, scamish guru businesses that have existed over time. In short, pointing out the stranglehold that society can create in an individual who has been sucked into the system of always trying to fix yourself, change, improve or naively following a false spiritual teaching only to become more confused than when you started. His books do a lot of bashing. He's not a gentle, passive kind of guy, he's more a negator of man made concepts and their many traps. Mostly he's tearing down ideologies not creating them.  Most of what he says makes for stimulating contemplation. You may not agree with it at first, but he plants a seed in you that germinates later, and makes you question. He even can come across a bit repulsive at first because he's so on the attack always.  UG Krishnamurti is not to be confused with the famous J. Krishnamurti who UG personally knew and criticizes because he felt that although J. Krishnamurti kept claiming the \\"no guru is necessary\\" philosophy, UG. felt that he was being hypocritical since his teachings became a bit of a system that was very institutionalized and JK came out with dozens of books and got trapped in his own following, so U.G. Krishnamurti argues that JK. was in essence another self-inflated guru with a gimmicky system.  It's a bit difficult to get a direct positive outcome of U.G. Krishnamurti's teachings because most of the time he's on the negative, discarding mode, however in the discarding process, one can be forced to give up these gimmicks and sytems and learn to just BE once again. Function from a more natural state of BEING instead of DOING practices all the time and always projecting an idea of fixing yourself in the future-which ironically never arrives.  My slight gripe with UG. is that while I on the whole agree very much with what he is saying, there is a way to move in the direction of Self-Knowledge without falling into gimmicks and sytems that trap us. There have been a few very good teachers along the centuries that have warned seekers to investigate their true nature without falling prey to systems and concepts but also gave students more concrete pointers, which UG never really does. However, in his defense he is not claiming to be a Guru. With that said, I still find him to be a very interesting character for ripe seekers who can handle his very iconaclastic, irreverent style.  For \\"no-nonsense\\" type \\"seekers\\" that enjoy these types of teachings I recommend Nisargadatta Maharaj. His teachings are also very direct, especially the books of his talks that came out after I AM THAT, like 'Consciousness and the Absolute', 'Prior To Consciousness' and 'The Ultimate Medicine' to name just 3. Nisargadatta Maharaj while also being a annhilator of mind made concepts for the spiritual seeker, offers a slightly different tone that is direct yet a bit more practical than UG. He also taught seekers to tenaciously avoid sytems, gimmicks and the trap of creating a web of spiritual concepts that trip you up in the end. He also never quotes from any scriptures or parroted anybody and encouraged you to do the same. However, he did teach that after all the discarding of concepts one can come to the place of Self-Knowledge, so he does have a bit of a \\"teaching\\" however it comes more from rigorous self-investigation, not a system.	2004-02-09
US	44225654	R2L900WQY4TJ90	8187967064	154808454	Courage to Stand Alone: Conversations with U.G. Krishnamurti	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A Non-Gimmicky Teacher of Wisdom	The UG. books are all dialogues between UG and others that were recorded on various topics. U.G. Krishnamurti is definately a character in the \\"spiritual\\" (he dislikes that word associated with him)community.<br />It is quite difficult to describe him and his system of thought since he doesn't really have one. I will attempt to do so only for the sake of the reader, not that it will be totally accurate since it will still be a label which he would probably himself disagree with. He's part philospher, guru, social commentator, and ironically-an anti-guru.<br />He seems to be a self realized man. His main attitude about spirituality is that of pointing out the traps of all these spiritual systems and the gimmicks, money making, scamish guru businesses that have existed over time. In short, pointing out the stranglehold that society can create in an individual who has been sucked into the system of always trying to fix yourself, change, improve or naively following a false spiritual teaching only to become more confused than when you started. His books do a lot of bashing. He's not a gentle, passive kind of guy, he's more a negator of man made concepts and their many traps. Mostly he's tearing down ideologies not creating them.<br />Most of what he says makes for stimulating contemplation. You may not agree with it at first, but he plants a seed in you that germinates later, and makes you question. He even can come across a bit repulsive at first because he's so on the attack always.<br />UG Krishnamurti is not to be confused with the famous J. Krishnamurti who UG personally knew and criticizes because he felt that although J. Krishnamurti kept claiming the \\"no guru is necessary\\" philosophy, UG. felt that he was being hypocritical since his teachings became a bit of a system that was very institutionalized and JK came out with dozens of books and got trapped in his own following, so U.G. Krishnamurti argues that JK. was in essence another self-inflated guru with a gimmicky system.<br />It's a bit difficult to get a direct positive outcome of U.G. Krishnamurti's teachings because most of the time he's on the negative, discarding mode, however in the discarding process, one can be forced to give up these gimmicks and sytems and learn to just BE once again. Function from a more natural state of BEING instead of DOING practices all the time and always projecting an idea of fixing yourself in the future-which ironically never arrives.<br />My slight gripe with UG. is that while I on the whole agree very much with what he is saying, there is a way to move in the direction of Self-Knowledge without falling into gimmicks and sytems that trap us. There have been a few very good teachers along the centuries that have warned seekers to investigate their true nature without falling prey to systems and concepts but also gave students more concrete pointers, which UG never really does. However, in his defense he is not claiming to be a Guru. With that said, I still find him to be a very interesting character for ripe seekers who can handle his very iconaclastic, irreverent style.<br />For \\"no-nonsense\\" type \\"seekers\\" that enjoy these types of teachings I recommend Nisargadatta Maharaj. His teachings are also very direct, especially the books of his talks that came out after I AM THAT, like 'Consciousness and the Absolute', 'Prior To Consciousness' and 'The Ultimate Medicine' to name just 3. Nisargadatta Maharaj while also being a annhilator of mind made concepts for the spiritual seeker, offers a slightly different tone that is direct yet a bit more practical than UG. He also taught seekers to tenaciously avoid sytems, gimmicks and the trap of creating a web of spiritual concepts that trip you up in the end. He also never quotes from any scriptures or parroted anybody and encouraged you to do the same. However, he did teach that after all the discarding of concepts one can come to the place of Self-Knowledge, so he does have a bit of a \\"teaching\\" however it comes more from rigorous self-investigation, not a system.om rigorous self-investigation, not a system.	2004-02-09
US	44225654	RDC74KYFREFOB	0874779928	791402457	Son of Man: The Mystical Path to Christ	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Great Work on Christ	This book is a very interesting book that points readers into looking at Jesus Christ as a non-dogmatic, unconditionally loving spiritual maaster and not the Christ that we here in churches...A religious leader out to propogate a religion and condemn non-believers of him. <BR>Of course, this book will not be accepted by all since it can be seen as overly liberal and unconventional.  How?  Since Mr. Harvey is primarily out to paint a portrait of a loving, mystical Christ that could never have even intended to be deified and who mainly wanted to teach a love based spirituality, the author uses quotes from many unconventional sources like the Gnostic Gospels (Gospel of Thomas, Gospel of Mary, Secret Book of James,  Gospel of the Savior and others).  That unto itself will spark some controversy for this book.<BR>Mr. Harvey's Christ has a through-line of that of an enlightened master, say a Buddha of Nazereth, so it is with that Christ in mind that he writes and he pulls from many Christian sources to keep in line with this mystical, unconditionally loving Christ.<BR>What this adds up to is for those that are spiritual 'seeker' types who are lovers of Light and seeing spirituality through Oneness and an Eternal Truth of Unity without dogmas you'll find this book extremely fascinating.  For those \\"fundamenalist\\" types, you'll either brush this book of as some kind of new age concoction or it'll make you reconsider some of your preciously held beliefs about who Jesus Christ was.<BR>There are some very well written chapters on: Jesus' Message, Jesus and family, Jesus and women, Jesus and the rich, Jesus and religion, Jesus and his Disciples and other topics.  Mr. Harvey shows us through Jesus teachings how he promoted love, humility and acceptance in all these areas.<BR>Another nice bonus is that the book has some beautiful Christ based meditations.<BR><BR>This book is unique in that the author is a scholar, well rounded spiritual teacher and poet all at the same time.  Theauthor manages to be remarkably intuitive and speak from the heart while always remaining centered and intelligent, not just \\"way out there\\".  The book is rooted enough in research to deserve to be considered a serious work on Christ (although, many will disagree with me because of the uncommon philosophies put forth).  The book has a heartfelt-poetic quality to it while simultanously being very scholarly which is extremely rare.  Even though I consider myself to be an open minded spiritual seeker that always saw Christ as a great teacher of Unity, I never saw Christ's teachings with the depth of Mr. Harvey's book.  Very enlightening.	2003-12-31
US	44225654	R21ZI7T0LNY5GV	157731400X	666881217	Stillness Speaks	Books	5	37	38	N	N	The Still Self in Tolle's Prose--Detailed Review.	Stillness Speaks is a concise delivery of what the experience in Stillness is when put to words.  Tolle's book this time is written in a kind of Zen like prose.  A true economy of words, just the bare expression and simple flow of the quiet Spirit of life that is underneath (and through)the life of form.<BR><BR>I've read some of the negative reviews that people have written and would like to briefly address the common theme.  It seems that people are having a very difficult time accepting a book of so little words and content.<BR>I understand that if you are searching for a 'fix it', self-help type book, this book will be a big disappointment to those.  In this book, Tolle is now expressing his theme of Presence, that he so thoroughly covered in The Power of Now, in a more deeper manner, through...Stillness.  The book can be seen as a meditative experience through reading.  For those that object to the economy of words, you can read any serious, well respected spiritual text and you'll find that richness and simplicity.  Look at Tao Te Ching, Bhagavad Gita, Gospel of Thomas, Jesus' Parables and Zen writings to name a few things. Great sages like Ramana Maharshi, when asked questions would often not even reply and just sit in silence in front of you, making you go deeper within yourself beyond mental modifications.   <BR>If you really crave more content, Tolle has many helpful tapes/videos available with lectures that discuss spiritual growth and all it's aspects in an extremely thorough fashion with quite a lot of content.   (Go to his website for a long catalog of materials)<BR>Please remember, Tolle's teachings are about dissolving your false, mind made self, not self improvement (especially in some pop pyscology kind of way!).  That might be a bit tricky for some to comprehend, but that is where the difference lies in Self-Realization & self-help.  Tolle is not a self-help guru, his teachings point towards deconstructing the false self you've too closely misidentified with---the source of all your psycological suffering.  <br />Read this book with a Zen-Like mindset and you might enjoy it.<br />The other issue people had was the cost of the book.  I might go along a bit with that, I do feel the publishers did overprice the book by at least a few dollars and have taken advantage of Tolle's popularity.  However, it is still an interesting book and I did find it worthwhile.	2003-11-21
US	44225654	R1DOIAWPYJ4LPS	0767913868	420773023	The Slow Burn Fitness Revolution: The Slow Motion Exercise That Will Change Your Body in 30 Minutes a Week	Books	3	62	85	N	N	Some Truth & Some Junk	As someone certified in fitness for years I will give my analysis of this book.  I hope it helps.  I do feel that this book is definately a combination of some   good pointers into fitness and a lot of bunk!   First the good then the bunk:  Good:  -The authors do a nice job of pointing out that weight training offers us all some great benefits that have been overlooked for years.  -The authors do point out that it is important to put good focus on weight training and how many popular forms of exercise while yes, fun and enjoyable can cause a lot of harm on joints etc.  Too many people (especially women)just say. \\"oh, I hate weight training that's not for me\\" and instead only take some kind of cardio class or yoga.  That is not an EDUCATED decision since while I am 100% for those classes, it does not mean one should shun weights just because initially you're intimidated or have an aversion to it.  With time, that goes away.  -The Low-Carb thing is still very controversial.  While I'm not promoting it completely, it does seem that it is a more effective way to lose weight.  There are studies showing quicker and easier weight loss this way.  I think the jury still isn't out on Low-Carb, but it does have some validity.  -With a good combo of proper weight training and proper diet.  We can get good results with efficient training time.  BAD:  -Their anti cardio suggestions are irresponsible.  While I agree completely that running shows to have many drawbacks a good 2+ hrs a week on elliptical equipment does no harm at all!  Not to mention that you burn more calories, release good endorphins and science shows that cardio creates an urge to eat healthtier automatically to name just a few cardio benefits.  Some Cardio is a must!  -30 minutes a week is a joke!  This is obviously marketing on their part.  If you go down that low, you'll lose that positive momentum that most people love about exercising.  Not to mention that TONS and of evidence shows that people need a min. of at least 3 hours a week of exercise to really make fitness improvements. It takes at least that long to create a caloric deficit that allows you to burn adequate calories for weight loss. Yes, added muscle mass from weight training does help raise the metabolic rate of course, however, it takes many pounds of muscle to raise your metabolism much! With 1 hour of intense cardio you can burn 900 calories in a day.  To try to depend on just muscle mass ONLY for significant weight loss is not practical.  Look at it this way through cardio a person can drop a consistent 2 lbs a week.  With weights only, you would have to build over 25 lbs of muscle to burn 900 calories--that is a very slow process that can take years for most.  -The Slow Burn system while decent is exaggerated and has no science at all to prove their claims as a superior system.  As a matter of fact there are almost zero pro bodybuilders that train this way because there careers are on the line and they have not proven that the Slow Burn system is superior in any way so you don't see any Mr. Olympia's following this science.  If it were that superior, believe me, pro bodybuilders would be doing it--the truth is they don't.  Slow Burn is perhaps nice variety,  that's ALL.  -What they say on stretching is so ridiculous I laughed while reading it.  Stretching does offer benefits.  We may not need to get hung up on it.  Just a few minutes here and there can suffice.  Conclusion:   Some results are possible on this system.  How?  Primarily due to the diet and secondarily due to the slightly added muscle mass raising the metabolic rate a bit.  If you do a strict low-carb diet, and it agrees with you, you can drop weight, even without any exercise.  Thousands of people are doing it every day on Atkin's type diets.    This system is valid for someone who honestly spends over 13 hours a day commuting/working a day and has no time.  But, only as a temporary beginners phase, not a long term thing.  Anyone seriousabout weight loss/health needs to work out at least 3 hours a week with at least 25% of it dedicated to cardio.	2003-11-18
US	44225654	R2G45CI426YA79	0451195728	235928983	The Pritikin Weight Loss Breakthrough: 5 Easy Steps to Outsmart Your Fat Instinct	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Probably the best book of its kind	This is probably the best book of its kind because it is one of the only books I've seen out there that is scientific, practical and non-gimmicky.  In an industry where there are more weight loss gimmicks coming out everyday this book rises to the top and is a great relief in a world of silly weight loss gimmicks.  Here are just some of the great and practical ideas Pritikin proposes:  -Don't just cut back on calories, the metabolism slows down and our willpower gives out eventually when we feel deprived, better to eat in a high fiber/low fat filling manner that satisifies you completely without any starving.  -Once we cut back on a lot of fatty foods and excessive meat and substitute it with high fiber and complex carb eating, we lose the craving for those bad foods.  -Excercise helps keep up our desire for these healthy foods.  Those are the main ideas of his system.  They are very practical and don't mislead people into some silly way of eating. One of the absolutely outstanding things about this system is that the hardest part is getting yourself used to eating a lot of fruits and vegetables.  Believe it or not, that is the hardest part of this system.  Once you get past that and develop a taste for fruits & vegetables, this \\"diet\\" just pretty easily flows from there.  It's hard to believe, but this \\"diet\\" really does legitamately eliminate the need for calorie counting because if you really just watch the fat/sugar intake and keep your fiber intake high, your calories can't help but stay quite low (except perhaps for those that have compulsive eating disorders)because vegetables/fruits/fiber really do fill you up much more than the average high fat manner of eating. With this sytem, you can very EASILY trim 300-400 calories a day with just minor changes and no starving at all.  One other great bonus about this \\"diet\\" is that it's very economical.  You can eat a healthy  meal for .70 cents if you wanted to.  Weigh that up against these low carb diets that have you spending $2.50 just for a low carb bar that you practically need to keep those diets going.  Not to mention all these other low carb products out now (has anyone wondered how absurd it is to think that the low carb people think man can create better foods than nature has provided for us!) and the cost of large  quantities of meat etc.  It's about 3-4X the cost of eating the Pritikin way.  This system works and you can maintain it for life. One of the criticisms that this \\"diet\\" receives is that the low fat recommedations are excessive and impractical, what I've learned is that you can actually slighly exceed the low fat recommendations Pritikin makes and you will still be able to maintain an extremely reasonable calorie intake.  So I would ignore that criticism because even if you only follow 85% of the strictest recommendations, you will get outstanding results!  Even only following the Pritikin recommendations about 80-85% of the time, I still lost weight!  One tip I would add:  Even though as Pritikin proposes in his book, you will lose weight if you follow his moderate excercise instructions, if you really want to see quicker results in weight loss, I would suggest doing more exercise than this book recommends. 3-5 days of vigorous exercise will make a HUGE difference in your results.	2003-11-13
US	44225654	R2MVCKFGPQQQF4	0802131840	109628591	Bankei Zen: Translations from the Record of Bankei	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The great teachings of Master Bankei	A great gem of a book for any seeker. Master Bankei's teachings revolved around the principal that we are all a part of the Unborn-here and now and that once we abide in that no other knowledge or practice is really necessary. His teachings mainly point this out from many angles based on peoples questions and issues at the time. After many years of his own struggle as a seeker he came to the realization that since everything arises from the Unborn we are all Buddhas once we really abide in the Unborn, which is possible NOW without any other knowledge. He felt that seekers distanced themselves from this very direct teaching by doing too many things like working on koans or spending a lot of time reading religious Buddhist texts, all the while missing the Unborn Buddha Mind right now that is always present. It seems hard to believe but Master Bankei very profoundly and intelligently makes a great case for this teaching in this wonderful book. I strongly recommend it. It is along the lines of the teachings of Ramana Maharshi, Nisargadatta Maharaj and more recently Eckhart Tolle (The Power of Now &amp; Stillness Speaks).	2003-10-02
US	44225654	R2GFXTZG7NRYN9	0883685353	508450245	Smith Wigglesworth on God's Transforming Power	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Intensely Spirit Inspired	Whenever I read a book by Smith Wigglesworth I always can feel his intense passion and power of the Holy Spirit in action.<BR>This is the 1st book I have ever read by a religious Christian teacher ever and I immediately became hooked after the 1st few pages.  Over the years I've read dozens of spiritual type books and completely avoided all books by religious teachers, preachers, ministers due to unimpressive experiences I'd had in the past.  My contact with the Bible before Wigglesworth was also minimal.  After reading this book I now have a new found faith and reverence for God, the Bible, Jesus Christ and of course Smith Wigglesworth.<BR>Every page of this book bursts with Faith, Holy Energy, Wisdom and God's Word told in a very practical way. He is a great example of someone whose heart was on Fire for the Lord and Jesus Christ. <BR>I can't say enough great things about Smith Wigglesworth after now having read 3 of his books.  I intend to read quite a few more.   God Bless You dear reader.	2003-09-24
US	44225654	R1LXFYHMMF2LYO	088419437X	403293952	Smith Wigglesworth On Faith	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Alive with Spirit	As usual Smith Wigglesworth is bursting with the Holy Spirit.  His books are always so alive with faith and devotion in a very simple and heart felt way.  I recommend anything by this great man.  This particular book is a small handy little book with quick little chapters and great short prayers at the end of them.  It really is a great practical guide more than a detailed read.  Great for getting right to the heart of Spirituality and God's word.<BR>God Bless you dear reader.	2003-09-24
US	44225654	RRBZV0W62WMBI	0310922291	794521656	NIV Shirt Pocket New Testament	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Handy and Divine	What a great handy little New Testament!  Besides being very small, it has Christ's words in red, a very neat format with headings all throughout, a cloth book mark and even a little index in the back with topics and NT references to look up.<BR>Well worth getting if your looking for a great NT that offers A LOT of convenience and quality.	2003-09-20
US	44225654	RGC119MEWEC6V	1577312015	311050324	No Greater Love	Books	5	24	26	N	N	A true Saint	Reading this book brought tears to my eyes just based on the sheer love for mankind this woman radiates.  Besides being a touching account of what her day to day life was like of being of service for the sick and poor of the world, it is a great book of guidance and wisdom from a Saint who really followed the path of Christ from moment to moment every day of her life.  One of the best reads ever as a source of Spiritual guidance and wisdom.	2003-09-18
US	44225654	R9LHAXTYRGI38	1888043040	579350700	Working on Yourself Doesn't Work: A Book About Instantaneous Transformation	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Wonderful Gem	One of the things that makes this book great is that it can disentangle a lot of confusion that many anxious seekers out there are going through to 'fix' themselves.  It's a book that can help bring you out of the trap of always working on yourself or to 'improve' yourself.  This book gets you to look at your wholeness HERE & NOW.  To see all of your mental resistance from a place of nonjudgmental awarness that naturally resolves mental anguish.   This book is about the most deceptively simple, yet profound books I've ever come across. What makes this book special is that it really points out how you are OK, right here and now without having to try to always fix yourself. The problem is that you are resisting and judging how you feel. There is absolutely nothing wrong with whatever you are feeling, that is the human experience for everyone. Perfect, perpetual bliss does not exist, the problem is the DEMAND we place on ourselves by telling ourselves to feel perfectly happy all the time or that cicumstances be ideal always. Once we drop that and just allow whatever is in the moment to just be as it is, without judgment, life can be richer and more satisifying because when there is no resistance to what is, things just flow. Ultimately, it is this demand of how we think we SHOULD be that is the trap, however, we are just fine the way we are, the reason why there is ongoing anguish is because you ultimately are not accepting things, be it your emotions or circumstances, when one fully accepts the present moment, a more satisfying way of functioning takes over.   These principles are deceptively simple but profound. Following these principles can be a real blessing because it can help us finally call of the intense search for \\"Enlightenment\\" and just relax into the moment, which paradoxically can bring us to \\"Enlightenment\\". In other words, the very demand for it pushes it away, relaxing into the now and just being is where enlightenment exists.  The tricky thing about this book is that while I'm deeply impressed with the premise and agree 100% with it, I feel that the book doesn't do the author's illuminative principals full justice.  I think that because people are so DEEPLY conditioned to try to fix themselves all the time, the authors could have explained themselves a bit better.  The book is a tad bit too short and I felt the design of the book (inside & out)was very poor: the whole design, layout, fonts, artwork which might create some resistance into buying into its teachings for some(let's get real, people do judge a book by its cover! The book looks kind of like a book created for an audience of young female teenagers).    Even though it's great they kept it short, it may have been just a bit too short, if it hadn't been for also reading 'The Unborn teachings of Zen Master Bankei' and 'The Power of Now' and purchasing one of the Kanes' tapes, I never would have been able to fully grasp their premise just based on this book.  That's why I think they got some of those negative reviews.  Because what they're saying is kind of radical even though I know it's very simple,(and true) people are naturally going to disagree (How the Hell am I supposed to get better by doing nothin'?)I think it would have helped to write a bit more.  My advice would be that for the next printing they should totally redesign the book and add a bit more text (perhaps some Q & A)and they would have a treasure on their hands.  Nevertheless, as it stands, this book is a GEM and I strongly recommend reading it.  It can get you to begin to live more deeply in Awareness and not fall into trying to manipulate yourself with all these popular self improvement techniques that only set you back in many ways.	2003-09-10
US	44225654	R1GO61HG18355R	0915132354	500567406	The Bhagavad Gita	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Lords Gita	This is a great accessable gita for all type of seekers.  This translation is written in a very understandable form and flows very well.<br />It begins every chapter with a short analysis and detailed explanation of Sanskrit terms, spiritual principles and science behind them.  It is also a nice size that makes for carrying it around with convenience.<br />This particular translation is will be appreciated by those open minded spiritual seekers since it is written as more of a  spiritual guide than a religious text.  Although religious types can also appreciate it.<br />The wisdom of the Gita is eternal and this one really does it justice.<br />Besides flowing nicely, it is also quite small and handy and can easily be carried around.	2003-09-08
US	44225654	R2E91QZ5CK1RP6	0865475954	290404198	Unborn: The Life and Teachings of Zen Master Bankei, 1622-1693	Books	5	34	35	N	N	The Direct teachings of Master Bankei	A great gem of a book for any seeker.  Master Bankei's teachings revolved around the principal that we are all a part of the Unborn-here and now and that once we abide in that no other knowledge or practice is really necessary.  His teachings mainly point this out from many angles based on peoples questions and issues at the time.  After many years of his own struggle as a seeker he came to the realization that since everything arises from the Unborn we are all Buddhas once we really abide in the Unborn, which is possible NOW without any other knowledge.  He felt that seekers distanced themselves from this very direct teaching by doing too many things like working on koans or spending a lot of time reading religious Buddhist texts, all the while missing the Unborn Buddha Mind right now that is always present.  It seems hard to believe but Master Bankei very profoundly and intelligently makes a great case for this teaching in this wonderful book.  I strongly recommend it.  It is along the lines of the teachings of Papaji,Ramana Maharshi, Nisargadatta Maharaj and more recently Eckhart Tolle (The Power of Now & Stillness Speaks).	2003-08-31
US	44225654	R1HYD08CGJA3S6	0967036291	170068662	You Are Not: Beyond the Three Veils of Consciousness	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Penetrating into the heart of The Absolute	This book goes far beyond the popular spiritual concepts and points out the traps on the path that come with them.<BR>This book is written from a non-dual (Advaita)perspective.  Dr Wolinsky, in this book, basically goes into how ALL concepts, ideas, mantras, gunas, spiritual virtues, Devotional practices, ideas of enlightenment go back to THE VOID or ONE SUBSTANCE.  When that is truly apperceived, many of our conceptual traps begin to dissolve.  It is the essense of what Buddha said &quot;emptiness is form and form is emptiness&quot;.  <BR>The title YOU ARE NOT is pointing us towards apperceiving that the &quot;I&quot;, the mind made egoic self is not you.  Beyond that lies what Wolinsky calls the NOT-I-I....The Self prior to mind made consciousness.<BR>If you find this book stimulating, you will also enjoy I AM THAT I AM by Dr. Wolinsky also.	2003-08-14
US	44225654	R2PUBFZGVI7940	0140190627	19383685	Be As You Are: The Teachings of Sri Ramana Maharshi (Compass)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	One of the best books on non-duality.	BE AS YOU ARE is full of well rounded questions and answers on all topics of interest to the spiritual seeker.  If you're inclined to \\"bare bones\\" essentials in your spiritual teachings this is a highly recommended book. The core teaching is self-inquiry, a method of keeping sharp focus on the Self. Ramana Maharshi and Nisargadatta Maharaj were both well known for very direct approaches to spirituality. This book shows how Ramana Maharshi keeps his teachings very simple and direct from all angles. How he addresses questions to  subjects like: Surrender, Meditation, Yoga, Mantras, Reincarnation, Karma and many, many other topics posed to him. He always found a way to keep all these topics aligned with knowing the Self, your unconditioned state. If there is one thing this book does is help streamline many different angles and teachings into one core practice: Dive inside the \\"I AM\\" know that intimimately until you know you are not the body.	2003-07-07
US	44225654	RG2YFT57LMOSE	0893860417	92570393	Consciousness and the Absolute: The Final Talks of Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Another Nisargadatta Gem.	A great book into understanding your True Nature as the Unborn.  Nisargadatta Maharaj takes us step by step, through the discourses and questions and answers given in this book, to dismanteling the false self that we think we are.  He teaches us to thoroughly understand and dwell in consciousness (I am-ness or beingness)until we can apperceive that we are not the body.  He very masterfully teaches us what conclusion we come to when we dis-identify from the body/mind and just come back to our I-am-ness.  The pure, unconditioned I am-ness that awakens us to Universal Consciousness and reveals to us how we are the very Absolute Reality.  These are very profound teachings for those seekers that are interested in knowing the Self.  There are is no flowery language here, or fancy complicated spiritual practices recommended.  Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj was more of a direct type of teacher that preferred to keep the focus on directing you to your true nature as the Absolute Reality over poetic or flowery language, so you wont find much of that here.  Just a very intense and uncompromising teacher that keeps pointing seekers back to their true nature.  Nisargadatta Maharaj teachings are among the most direct teachings in print. Maharaj's teaching are in the style of confronting and dismanteling all the concepts we carry around.  He didn't just want to talk of bliss and joy and give seekers a stereotypical image enlightenment or some other concept to get lost in. Instead he wanted you to continue to dig and dig until you come to the Truth.  Not just walk around with more concepts of how you should be able to go into blissed out states after meditations etc. because we are still a body/mind ego in a transitory state identified with the body.  Instead Nisargadatta Maharaj wants you to understand the Ultimate Truth and then wake up to that reality without any gimmicks and concepts.  Once that can be deeply apperceived true Self-Knowledge can occur.	2003-07-07
US	44225654	R1MAADXME9X5UJ	0892131233	561265045	Bhagavad-Gita As It Is	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Bhagavadgita as a religious text	It is very obvious from reading this version of Bhagavad Gita that the author has a deep reverence and devotion to Krishna. This is definately a religious version of Bhagavad Gita. If you are more of a liberal spiritual type looking for a neutral spritual book, this is not that. Swami Prabhupada was a very religious man, not a liberal or eclectic spiritual teacher. He, as most people know, founded the Hare Krishna movement in the USA and COMPLETELY writes the Gita from the perspective of Krishna the Supreme Being and using the Gita as the science for pure devotion to Krishna. He is very opposed to even the idea of substituting Krishna to mean \\"Being, Absolute Reality your True Self\\" or any such words that are used in impersonal teachings. One way or the other, that is a very private matter that each of us needs to explore on our own, I just want to inform readers of how specific Swami Prabhupada is in his teachings so that those out there looking for a more \\"open minded\\" teaching might want to know this. However with that said, I do feel that Swami Prabhupada did write a beautiful book that is EXTREMELY THOROUGH and detailed in his beliefs. Those more religious types will probably love this book. Swami Prabhupada lays out his Hare Krishna teachings here very eloquently and teaches a very pure form of spirituality that is not diluted with pop spirituality in any way.	2003-07-02
US	44225654	R1XUYAOQA6NCPK	0961366389	929270616	Conversations With JC (Listening to My Self, Vol. 3)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A simple guide to Joy	This book is a beautiful, simple book on expanding the unlimited Joy within. The book is set up like daily journals the author has with her inner self and the very simple guidance of connecting with your joy, unconditional love and abundance here and now.  The writings are advice given to her, but of course they are things we can all relate to.  For the reader, the writings read like a kind of guided meditations that are extremely effective and beautiful.<BR>The book mainly focuses on finding that Christ-Self (or whatever you prefer to call your higher self)in the present, NOW &amp; HERE.  Bringing this consciousness into all your life activities and interactions.  Growing with a sense of Joy and love.  Being aware of your judgements and how they might bring you down,feeling a deep sense of purpose by aligning with your deeper self and finding unconditional self acceptance.<BR>The book doesn't veer too far away from these basic lessons,  although the guidance is very subtle it's very powerful.<br />Although the writing has it's own unique style, to give you an idea of the perspective, it is along the lines of Ekhart Tolle's-The Power of Now.  If you liked that, you will also enjoy Conversations with JC.  I should also mention that it is similar to the work of the authors friend-Arnold Patent (The Journey&amp;You Can Have It All).  If you like her message I recommend Mr. Patent's books because they are extremely well rounded he covers many topics and living life with this state of consciousness in all aspects.	2003-06-04
US	44225654	R1TCTDRUAWOSUC	0963129252	16210724	And There Was Light	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Gives you things to think about.	I know that a book like this has the potential to be a bit controversial considering the subject matter-The Bible. Many strict Christians will disagree with a lot of what is said for sure. This book is for those who are looking for a more logical, spiritual explanation of The Bible and Jesus. <BR>Since there are hundreds of theories on the bible, I'm sure not all will be satisfied. <BR>What I really loved about this book is that Errico did convince me that an Aramaic perspective really helps shed light on a lot of idoims and passages of the bible. Why? Because they have so many expressions that were never meant to be taken literally (like it's raining cats & dogs in english). Errico explains that Aramaic is a very colorful language and is known for many colorful expressions and unique idioms and cultural things that the Bible is full of, page by page and to be taken without the Aramaic light is a very limited venture. I think it is fair to say that an Aramaic expert can shed much light on Jesus' parables and idioms of the New Testament. Not a Hebrew or Greek expert but an Aramaic expert. This book shows many instances where things never made sense to me and after reading it from the Aramaic perspective it all \\"clicked\\". It makes a lot more sense and there are very few things now that make you say \\"WHAT! Why the heck would Jesus say that???\\" As was always the case for me before.<BR>Of course there are 1 or 2 things I might question here, maybe, but they are rather insignificant in light of the great explanations Errico puts forth.<BR>I think anyone who has a more spiritual slant (not dogmatic religious ideas) will enjoy this book. It puts forth a more natural, enlightened Jesus who was more of a teacher of self realization.  This book presents his teachings as an inner process of discovering what is within not a strong faith based kind of thing that is traditionally set forth. It takes Christianity out of \\"hellfire and brimstone\\" stuff and makes it much more nondogmatic and spiritual.	2003-05-29
US	44225654	R16VXQNUWPKG40	0963129244	20655928	Let There Be Light: The Seven Keys	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Great insight into the Bible	Definately some great ideas on the Bible and Jesus.  Sheds light on so many illogical things that never make sense to most of us.  Makes the bible much more understandable and user friendly.<br />I learned a lot.  I read this going.  &quot;oh my God, that makes perfect sense now!  That's what Jesus really meant.&quot;<br />It's more of a spiritual seekers book than one for &quot;strict&quot; Christians who are not into new ideas and interpretations on the bible.  Although after reading this you feel like you can't imagine how anyone ever got along without these ideas because they make so much sense.	2003-05-29
US	44225654	R232KC6DAGJCA1	1884997139	77044496	The Nectar of Immortality: Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj Discourses on the Eternal	Books	5	30	32	N	N	profound!	As usual Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj's words are powerful and profound. This book is a great compliment to I AM THAT.    What we have here is Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj giving very direct discources on apperceiving yourself as the Unborn. In this series of Q & A's Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj continually dismantles the concepts of the seekers and brings us back over and over to pointing us to our True Nature.   The talks are very focused and direct. Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj's methodical approach is designed to help you question and discard all the false ideas you have carried around about your mistaken identity and instead seeing your Self beyond body/mind identification. The talks are made to make you question, inquire and go a step beyond even spritual practices. This is a great book for those that are interested in cracking the shell of the false and peering into the Infinite and going past being a \\"seeker\\" learning yet more spiritual practices etc., etc., etc. These teachings are very direct pointers into Self-Knowledge of the Absolute reality and understanding what you really are and what was the state you were in prior to consciousness.   These are amongst some of the most concise and direct teachings I've come across in print.   \\"There is no birth, there is no death, there is no person, it is all just a concept, an illusion!\\"   Nisargadatta Maharaj	2003-05-10
US	44225654	R27GYZ9I24WSYY	0893860336	445135502	Pointers From Nisargadatta Maharaj	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Excellent.  Pointers to Maharaj's work in clear detail.	At first I was a bit nervous about getting this book when I found out that it is not a transcript of Nisargadatta's discourses.  It is actually Balseker writing on topics that he recalled from working and translating with Nisargadatta.  Of course this can make one uneasy since most people don't have enough of a grasp to write a book on Nisargadatta's work with real authority.  I got it anyway thinking that if after about 3 chapters, if I didn't like it, I'd return it.  What a pleasant surprise.  The book is very clear and true to Nisargadatta's teachings and somehow manages to be a bit simpler at times to comprehend then I AM THAT.  That's one of the things that struck out, the book is very concise and has a nice pace to it that makes it graspable. It makes you investigate the question of \\"Who or What are you?\\"  Maharaj encourages us to understand Consciousness/Beingness until you comprehend that you are not the body.  If your a fan of Nisargadatta, this is a nice addition to I AM THAT.	2003-04-29
US	44225654	R24463ONHH4EQW	0967036259	841462608	I Am That I Am: A Tribute to Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A great addition to non-duality teaching !	Essentially what this book does is break down Nisargadatta Maharaj's teachings into small bite sized fragments and analyze them backwards and forwards.  Advaita (non-duality)certainly isn't the easiest thing in the world to understand, add to that some of Nisagadatta's classic hindu and sankrit terminolgies and you can get very confused at times.  That's just the nature of studying a Masterpiece like I AM THAT, it's deep and pure advaita right from India.  So, Wolinsky's book is a great treasure as a kind of guidebook to I AM THAT.  He's probably one of the most qualified americans to discuss the topic of Advaita & Nisagadatta's teachings.  The book has some nice exercises to \\"play\\" around with to get the teachings on a more experiential level so that it goes beyond just intellectual analysis.  It's not the easiest book in the world to understand.  Not because of any flaw from Wolinsky, just the depth of this can be a bit tricky to grasp at times.  Like I am That, this is a book to come back to over and over.BR>It will help bring your understanding of Nisargadatta Maharaj's teachings to a new level.	2003-04-25
US	44225654	R3RSOXMK8M617W	0205151655	321758062	Acting Without Agony: An Alternative to the Method (2nd Edition)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Interesting premise.  Not 100% though.	Ultimately, yes, this is an interesing book.  What makes it interesting is that it points out a lot of the flaws and pitfalls in 'Method' acting.  That was something that I wrestled with for years.  All the agony.  I'd lost the joy in the process.  That part makes this book interesting.  However, these techniques, although they sound promising are a bit shallow and overly simplistic at times.  I still think this is a worthwhile book.  There are bits of it that are very good.  I would just say to watch out for when it gets too gimmicky.  Now, this is just my own experience, I want to be fair here, maybe others were able to make this work, but I tried his system for supposedly creating emotions and to me that is just a gimmicky way to work.  I can't imagine how that could work for anyone.  It sounds interesting but after trying it, the techniques given for emotions just fall flat (for me anyway).<BR>The overall problem with this book is that it tries to create too many little 'tricks' at times.  I don't think it quite works that way. My personal feeling is that you need to be thorough in your character choices, know  the right questions to ask, and eventually trust your talent.  BE.  Be in the moment, with all the work you've done you then jump in and surrender to your talent.  I don't think any little system can do that.  I think it's a god given-surrendered kind of thing, not something you try to manipulate.  That was at times the problem I had with this book.<BR>Nevertheless, it does have some gems in it.  Aside from the system for creating emotions, the rest of the book is very good.  It points out the importance of a well chosen objective, he gives you good character questions and explains how to work on different styles.  Also, he does find a nice way to simplify things.  I did feel I learned some good things from this book.	2003-04-25
US	44225654	R2WQ8TT2JQ5MWG	0893860220	564884353	I Am That: Talks with Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Crown Jewel by an ASTOUNDING true sage.	I am That and for that matter anything that is a work of Nisargadatta Maharaj is always a work of true spiritual realization in action. I am That is one of the most profound books of its kind. I Am That is a crown jewel among books and Nisargadatta Maharaj has proven to be one of the most humble, caring and devoted sages ever known.  What makes this book oustanding is that it keeps bringing you back to the same core teaching...your true nature is beyond mind and body--explore that!   I must admit that it could be a bit confusing at first and sound like someone talking in riddles, however once the message begins to dawn on you, it it's message is ever so profound.  What's that? What your true nature is and how to find lasting peace.   On one hand it might be a bit confusing at first but at the same time, it is because what he says is so ridiculously simple it goes over your head. The basic premise is concept-free spirituality based on seeking your true nature in deep awareness. I consider this a must for a seeker, especially one that prefers very direct type teachings about realizing the Self without alot of extra innesentials.	2003-04-23
US	44225654	R3KLGRP9I5D2EI	1884997090	517935869	The Ultimate Medicine	Books	5	119	120	N	N	Very deep and direct--a priceless book.	For those that have read I am That-Nisargadatta Maharaj's main work, this book is an amazing compliment to his work. This book differs from I am That in one main way, Nisargadatta Maharaj is in his last years and is extremely direct and no nonsense. He respnonds to questions with cutting honesty. No handholding or sugarcoating. For instance he bluntly points out the many pitfalls of many popular spiritual concepts that separate you from the Self. In I am That, he was a bit softer in his responses, here because his body is old and weary-not to mention he's been teaching for decades at this point, he has little tolerance for getting into \\"kindergarten spirituality\\"as he terms it.  Here, he goes for the very core of spiritual teachings. He doesn't say anything new from I am That, just poses things more directly and from a few new angles. I loved this book. It is well worth purchasing, especially if you are one who prefers very direct teachings.  The core of the teaching is--You are not the body/mind.  Stay with the I-am-ness and discard all concepts.  Understand what consciousness/beingness is until you come to the realization of your true nature as the Unborn Reality.  Some Quotes \\" Consider this beingness or consciousness as the supreme god\\"....\\"The beingness itself is the Guru\\"....\\"There is no birth, death it as all a concept, an illusion....You are that which observes the coming and going of consciousness....Stay put in beingness and all desire to be will melt away.	2003-04-23
US	44225654	R3770IL0WZRQWJ	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A spiritual Gem--Filled with depth and perception!	I don't know where to begin with this book. I will start by saying that one of the many things that makes the Power of Now a gem of a book is how Tolle has taken the core of ancient wisdom and churned out a real masterpiece without very mystical or religious concepts.<BR>This is definately a book for someone who is into self realization..IT IS NOT A POP PSYCHOLOGY BOOK OR A NEW AGE BOOK as some in the negative reviews have claimed. That is the problem with being on a best seller list like Tolle now is, the book is being read by people who normally wouldn't read something like this and \\"give it a shot cause it's kind of popular now\\" and are faced with talk on \\"Ego, trancending mind chatter, enlightenment, how the past/future are only mental creations etc.\\" This is a book for people who are willing to take a moment to understand the premise...your true nature is beyond body, mind identification/constructs. Not in a very mystical way-in very natural way, one can even say a scientific way, the science of all religions before they became organized religions--the message of true self realization. <BR>Of course the book takes a certain EXPERIENTIAL KNOWLEDGE. We hear over and over that we are all ONE and that our true nature is beyond the body but how many of us truly get that in an experiental no nonsense way? Very few. The Power of Now's core teachings are a deep inner path not a quick-pop book.<BR>In conclusion, Tolle has a great ability to communicate with very deep perception and the book is nothing short of brilliant.<BR>The premise is--Suffering is due to the mind made self, the Present helps one transend the false self. Once transended...the discovery of Timeless NOW free of mental anguish...Sorry to sound weird. <BR>Please read this book with patience and keep a Zen like mindset to get into the tone.	2003-04-23
US	44225654	R2V1FNBJ5MEPL	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Great book but a little oversimplified	I really do think that Body for Life (BFL) is a great book.  It's far superior to dozens of similar books on the market.  Bill has a great motivational disposition and has good guidelines inducing motivation and structure in the common person that wants to get fit and needs some upbeat guidance.<BR>I myself am a fitness trainer and have waded through tons of junk and find BFL to be above average.  While BFL is definately effective I feel that there are some parts of it that are just a bit too simplified.  For example, I do feel that his nutritional guidelines definately do work however, there are a few other books I've seen with similar guidelines that give more info on calories, protein/carb needs etc.  Bill could have included that in BFL for those who want to fine tune.  (yes, I know that his \\"portion\\" system is very simple but it is VERY important to know how to create effective eating plans by knowing calorie intake and diet needs and it can be quite simple to explain if done correctly)<BR>Also, his Cardio theories are quite good but it's  based on more testestorine than a lot of people are ready to begin with.  Bill talks about Maxing your Cardio in 20 minutes.  That sounds very, very alluring to the average lazy person that wants out of the gym fast, but, it's easier said then done.  I think a more moderate spread out cardio approach is better for starters. In my experience when beginners go \\"all out\\" from day one they tend to develop an aversion to exercise.  Again, BFL cardio can work, it's just a little too \\"cookie cutter\\" for everyone.<BR>Also, BFL almost ignores proper stretching, again the average \\"Joe-6-Pack\\" likes to hear \\"don't worry too much about stretching\\" but is that complete fitness?.<BR>Another area is this 6 set system.  YES, that can work for probably about 80% of the body but not for everything.  For example, I would suggest that for shoulders, if you want well rounded definition, you need to do at least 8-10 sets to include front, side andrear delts.  (WHATEVER HAPPENED TO ROTATOR CUFFS Bill?) You can't get all that in, in 6 sets total.  Any serious body builder knows that.  <BR>BFL is right on though with keeping the sets down to 6 for general puposes!  It is ridiculous to do 12 sets of biceps when you CAN effectively do 6.  I commend Phillips for pushing that.  It's just not going to work for 100% of the body all year round.<br />With that said, BFL is a LIFE CHANGER.  I think that it is so accessable to the masses, that it can affect millions of lives!<BR>I do recommend it.  I just feel like it has some areas that are too oversimplified.  For people who want to get more precision in their fitness knowledge I recommend getting \\"Hot Point fitness\\" to supplement BFL.  It's quite similar with a few additional insights that are helpful (precision eating and cardio).<BR>Good Luck and keep the momentum going!!	2002-10-17
