US	44240248	R2WJ1XAKMSQMI4	1859843654	245378939	In the Shadow of the Liberator: Hugo Chavez and the Transformation of Venezuela	Books	5	14	24	N	N	Hugo Chavez is an inspiring leader for Latin Am & the world	President Hugo Chavez has been a fantastic leader for all people with a progressive, social conscience. He inherited a land where the overwhelming majority of the population lived in dismal poverty despite being the 5th largest oil producing nation in the world.  A small, elite group of oligarchs, mostly white in a country largely mulatto and black, controlled the wealth and the country's valuable resources.  As Richard Gott makes clear in his excellent book, appropriately titled, that not only documents modern Venezuelan history, but brings us all the way back to the very beginning: Spanish colonization, resistence and finally, liberation at the hands of revolutionary Simon Bolivar. <br /> <br />Now I must get into some of the vile responses and outright lies that have been made by other reviewers of this book. Some of their comments, like repeating the same exact quote over and over again, makes me wonder if it's one than one person writing this.  Others define themselves as \\"Venezuelan exiles\\" who are now living in Florida. Let me tell you right now, if there are people going around calling themselves Venezuelan exiles and living in South Florida typing away on a computer, you better believe they are white and make up that top upper-income bracket that I alluded to earlier. Take a look at some of their obvious disdain and downright loathing of the poor, oppressed masses of poor Venezuelans, the overwhelming majority (thus showing their distaste for the Venezuelan people themselves) \\"I emphasize the word \\"educated\\", because it is no surprise that his demagogical approach results appealing to the lower-income strata of Venezuela\\" <br /> <br />Because Chavez nationalized the oil industry and decided to make Venezuela's resources to the benefit of the Venezuelan people, he has made enemies among the infamously right wing, and pro business corporate media in Latin America and its cousin in the United States, who relies on the general ignorance of most Americans on Latin America to defame a great leader.  First off, Hugo Chavez is NOT a dictator! The man has had 6 or 7 elections in the past 5 years and has won each and every won of them! And might I add, with overwhelming majorities to the tune of 58% and 60%. In the latest recall effort, that was defeated by nearly 60% of the vote, it was affirmed as being fair by international observers, including former US President Jimmy Carter.  NOW, let's compare that with the Bush regime and its \\"democratic\\" credientials.  2 Elections in 8 years. NO recall possible under the US Constitution (It was only possible in Venezuela thanks to the Constitution that the \\"dictator\\" Chavez made as a way of removing unpopular leaders and keeping them in check! Boy that Chavez! What a funny way of showing what a dictator is!) In 2000, Bush gets controversially \\"elected\\", loses the popular vote, no international observers, and needs the Supreme Court to do him in. Yet Bush and his reactionary allies on this board, have NO problem with calling Chavez \\"anti democratic\\" and \\"Totalitarian\\" <br /> <br />By the way, remember that coup of 2002? Supported by the Bush administration and the oligarchy? One of the first things the coup plotters did was DISBAND the Congress and the Supreme Court! Venezuela's democratic foundations. So who is the \\"authoritiarian\\" again? Not only that, but try asking the oligarchs where those coup plotters, those that tried to overthrow the democratically elected gov of Venezuela by force, are doing now? In America, they'd probably be sitting on death row. So where are they in Venezuela? In a mass grave? Sitting in a jail cell??? No! THEY ARE FREE! The Supreme Court of Venezuela let them go! And they walk as free men today! What a horrible dictator that Chavez is! An opposition media, an opposition mayor in Caracas, and COUP PLOTTERS GO FREE!   <br /> <br />Hugo Chavez is anything but what his opponents claim and for the love of God, please don't believe everything you hear in the corporate media..of from wealthy, right wing Venezuelan exiles. Read Richard Gott.	2005-04-04
US	44240248	RK2ENO53SERFJ	1859845835	486876158	Bush in Babylon: The Recolonisation of Iraq	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Tariq Ali is a fantastic writer	\\"Bush in Babylon - The Recolonisation of Iraq\\" is indeed, as the Rome Manifesto called it, \\"A Precious Jewel of a book\\"   <br /> <br />When searching for this book, I wanted a point of view that was not only critical of US foreign policy but critical from a non-Western point of view. It is truly eye-opening, agree with him or not, to read from an author who is not completely and fundamentally in the belief that the Western powers are just simply \\"Do gooders\\" that every once in a while, \\"Make a mistake.\\"   <br /> <br />Tariq Ali gives us a history of Iraq that destorys streotypes and our own (our meaning most Americans, myself included) ignorance on the rich history of this region of the world. It was not, as streotype would have you believe, a land of passive citizens living more or less happily under totalitarian rule. The reality of course, is something quite different. Ali gives us a history of rebellion, martyrs, and revolutionaries that nearly overthrew the corrupt, semi-colonial regime if not for a fatal error in allying with the secular Baaths. <br /> <br />Ali also, in a style both stylish and poetic, as well as powerfully dissident, completely disposes of the \\"jackals\\" and their arguments for war in Iraq. This war was about oil, control of natural resources BUT also, about imperial hegemony and asserting US control of a strategically crucial region of the world. And as for this \\"concern of human rights\\", the US government cares as much about human rights in Iraq as it did in the 80s and in Saudi Arabia today. (Just curious, but for the neo-cons and reactionaries, what's the excuse now for supporting this brutal dictatorship in Saudi Arabia? In Iraq, the excuse was \\"It's a Cold War man! Lesser of two Evils! Blah Blah Blah\\"...OK, so what's the excuse now? No Cold War, No Soviet Union, yet we still back this regime to the tilt. What are the apologists saying this time I wonder.) <br /> <br />Tariq Ali has written a very important, extremely well-written and most valuable book that not only gives us an important history of Iraq and the Middle East that we ought not forget, but also a highly critical (and highly entertaining) critique of US foreign policy. Ali's passion for humanity is moving and his contempt for fundamentalisms; both in the Middle East and in the West, is equally as essential. Well worth your time.	2005-04-04
US	44240248	R2YZDCUTAM8BO1	1567512526	687427378	Killing Hope: U.S. Military and C.I.A. Interventions Since World War II--Updated Through 2003	Books	5	39	49	N	N	Necessary reading	This is a most valuable book that details the criminal actions of our CIA. It tells the story that is never quite taught in our high school (or college) history books and is not &quot;fit to print&quot; in the, supposedly liberal, New York Times.<br />From our well-known destablization efforts in Chile, Cuba, and Guatemala to almost unknown operations in places like France, Australia, and Uruguay.  This book, with meticulous detail and backed by well-researched material, provides the reader with a devastating array of much needed information.  Even in places where I thought I had a pretty good idea of what the CIA had done, like in Chile for example, I was presented with many things I had no idea about: planting false articles in newspapers, serving as anti-Allende propaganda, disseminating what they knew were lies, economic destablization, it's all there and it's all pretty outrageous. <br />It is our duty to know what is done in our names. And this book goes a long way in allowing us to achieve this.  We can't change the past, but we can understand the anger of much of the third world and we can try to create a better one in the future.	2003-11-26
US	44240248	R2UAKAU7601368	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Franken + Chomsky =  MOORE!	Who else but Michael Moore could capture the outrage and anger of the Left while still being hilarious at the same time? Who can bring up such verboten topics like East Timor, Cuban Exile terrorism, and Bush's cozy ties with Saudi Arabia and still find his way into the mainstream media??<br />Michael Moore has proven that he is a wise politically as well as wildly entertaining -- Attacking the Democrats , urging them to be more progressive, while at the same time seeing the greater need in ousting Bush as well. <br />Not being content with speaking to the choir as some are he insists on the need to for like-minded folks to reach out to our apolitical and yes, even conservative friends and relatives.  While also being able to look at America's crimes but still affirming his love for his country and that his criticisms are there because he knows we can do a lot better.  <br />Bravo Micheal Moore!  Keep on fighting the good fight!	2003-11-22
US	44240248	R2ZQDS5P9G6LQJ	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A Classic!	Dan Brown's masterful new offering, The Da Vinci Code, is an intellectually stimulating and pulse-quickening triumph. The combination of completley unanticipated plot twists, fascinating artistic and historical facts, and the stunning manner in which Mr. Brown interweaves and interprets them is a monumental achievement. It is truly a rare offering that is both highly readable, educational, and extremely addictive.<br />This is a book that should appeal to anyone looking for a rare item: a thrilling page-turner that is both accessible to anyone but that does not insult anyone's intelligence. It will pump you full of adrenaline and knowledge. The Da Vinci Code will be the book that everyone is talking about for great reasons.<br />If they havent already!<br />Congrats Mr. Brown, your book was a pleasure to read!	2003-11-22
US	44240248	REX6ZMCDRTSRD	0896086569	732010921	Power Politics	Books	5	12	14	N	N	I was almost brought to tears.....	As someone who is admittedly and shamefully, completely ignorant about the current socio-political situation in India, I was nevertheless nearly moved to tears at the heroism of how so many displaced villagers gathered up the courage to protest the outrages of being forced to abandon their homes due to pointless and environmentally-harmful &quot;big dams&quot;<br />I also felt great outrage over how unfairly Roy was being persecuted by her own government and courts for simply writing what she believes in.  However, through her bravery, she never even contemplates leaving her country for greater personal (or economic)security but stays on to fight the good fight.  Truly commendable person. And this is a powerful book surely not to be missed.	2003-11-21
US	44240248	R37NZR7IQSQKLW	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Masterful!	With her &quot;The God of Small Things&quot;, Roy has clearly established herself as one of the great writers of our time.  Her compassion, creativity, and great imagination come out on nearly every page.  I endorse this book wholeheartedly and it surely deserves every award it has received with more to come! Definitely one not to be missed!	2003-11-21
US	44240248	R1SPZV8P0U72AE	0896087247	71159355	War Talk	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Fantastic writer!	I have truly fallen in love with Arundhati Roy!  A writer of international fame thanks to her masterful &quot;The God Of Small Things&quot; and if she wanted, she could have easily continued writing novels to make tons of money but no!  Instead she has committed to writing books which are strongly critical of the current political establishment and from a non-profit publisher no less!  <br />In War Talk, Roy is, as always, informative and passionate as she clearly lays bare the current administration's imperialist drives for power with such concepts as democracy and human rights used as mere facades for dishonest intellectuals everywhere.	2003-11-21
US	44240248	R5Y2X16RGEVX3	187617515X	21896344	The Cuban Exile Movement: Dissidents or Mercenaries	Books	5	6	14	N	N	A much needed book	The US media would have you believe that Cuban Exiles are a bunch of freedom loving , non-violent group that seeks only to free Cuba of \\"dictatorship\\"<br />This book proves them to be liars.  And proves it with their own words.<br />The authors interview Cuban Exile extremists and let the readers decide not from right wing Americans or Pro Castro Cubans, but decide from hearing them with their own words.<br />Exile terrorists have done thousands of terrorist acts in Cuba that have killed men women and children. Often done with the open support and approval of the US government.<br />And what did Castro do to get the Exile so upset?  Kick out the US-backed, corrupt Batista dictatorship run by the Casinos and Mob with American Capitalists owning all the resources of Cuba. <br />And what did Castro accomplish?  Near 100% literacy, a lower infant mortality rate than the US, Universal Heatlhcare system proclaimed by the World Bank as a \\"model\\" for the third world, free education through the university level, Free Housing, Guaranteed work, and the highest standard of living in all of Latin America and all this DESPITE US aggression, US Embargo, and Cuban Exile terrorism.  <br />While most of the Latin American countries that Cuba has a higher standard of living than, receives open US aid and support, Cuba receives open hostility and embargoes.<br />And the Exiles not only abandon their country but attack it and whine about Americans not doing enough to help them!<br />Real nice guys huh?	2002-11-24
US	44240248	R38NWKWGP79YAA	1583224726	50022979	Our Word is Our Weapon: Selected Writings	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A movement of Now.	Too often those of us who seek social justice for people who have been traditionally oppressed tend to just reminisce on the past.<br />However, this book proves that there is a great social movement that ordinary people CAN , RIGHT NOW make a diffrence about<br />The history of Mexico, like the history of Latin America, is a history of pain, struggle, and exploitation.  <br />Marcos shows us a movement that seeks to right some of the wrong, and leads a movement of the oldest of the old, the oppressed of the oppressed: Indigenous campesinos (farmers) of Southern Mexico.  Where pictures of Jesus Christ stand right there alongside of.....Che Guevara.<br />A people that have been traditionally been treated like dirt, for lack of a better word, now taking an inspirational and highly moving stand and demand an end to exploitation and a better way of life.<br />Through their charismatic and briliant leader, Marcos, he tells us the story of the people known as Zapatistas and their struggle for dignity.<br />The dignity of a people no longer willing to tolerate centuries of injustice.<br />What human being cannot be moved by such extroadinary courage?	2002-11-24
US	44240248	RZP8GFVKFGV4X	1875284923	154738669	Cuba and the United States: A Chronological History (new ed 1996)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Amazing and very important history of Cuba	Jane Franklin, one of the few honest writers on Cuba, gives us a extremely important history of Cuba.  As someone who is interested in the Cuban Revolution, I was particularly surprised at her numerous and lengthy citations of Terrorism on Cuba.  Cuban Exile terrorism from Miami, backed by the CIA with the full knowledge of the US government.  This terrorism has claimed thousands of lives which include foreign diplomats, tourists whose sole crime seems to consist of 'being at the wrong place at the wrong time', the bombing of an airplane of 1976 killing everyone on board, government officials, and of course, ordinary Cuban civilians.  <br />With Bush's jingoistic \\"war on Terrorism\\" this is a particularly useful resource for those of us that realize that the US has their own terrorists as well.  Bush's daddy even pardoned notorious , self confessed Cuban Exile terrorist Orlando Bosch, the man responsible for the 1976 airlplane bombing that claimed the lives of 76 men, women and children.  Even when the FBI and Justice Department classified him as a 'serieal terrorist', Bush still pardoned him.  Now , his son, Dubya, tells the world \\"If you HARBOR terrorists, you are one!\\"  I assume that Bush was not speaking in front of his father, the CIA or in the city of Miami at the time.<br />  Thanks to the prodding of extreme right wing Cuban Exile Congresswoman, Ileana Ros Lehtinen, this serial terrorist now walks in Miami among those that call him a \\"freedom fighter\\"  Remember the whole Elian debacle?  When Lehtinen and Cuban Exile congressmen staged huge rallies in Miami telling us how much they cared about THIS 6 year old boy?  But where is the outrage of all the little children that were in the airplane that Bosch had bombed?  As well as the other innocent children that have died as a result of Cuban Exile terrorism backed by the Congressman and the CIA?<br />Are you reading this and don't have any idea of what I am talking about?  Well, then you know why this book is soimportant.	2002-11-24
US	44240248	R1YSMEXAZF9N03	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	1	12	38	N	N	Verification?	Book Review of Bernald Goldberg's \\"Bias\\"  (and in response to a reviewer who called the book \\"verification\\")<br />Verification?  A conservative author telling conservative readers that he believes the media is biased is verification?<br />Noam Chomsky, has been arguing successfully for decades now of media bias as have many Progressives have been doing for decades. But he has received ZERO coverage from the mainstream press. It is incredible that people like Jerry Falwell can be on TV almost on a weekly basis but cannot find any time for this man or any other real Progressive voice.<br />If you want your Goldberg, fine. But why won't the liberal media give Chomsky, Zinn, Said, Finkelstein, etc the SAME time that they gave to Goldberg?  Of course, that will never do that, not even close,  because the Chomsky's  are virtually censored from the mainstream press while Brit Hume, Tony Snow, Fred Barnes, Bill O'Reilly, Lou Dobbs, Alan Keyes, Sean Hannity, E.D. Donahay, Rush Limbaugh, G. Gordon Liddy, John Carlson, Laura Schelessinger, Mike Reagan, Michael Medved, Kirby Wilbur etc. interview Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson, Pat Buchanan, Ann Coulter, Bernard Goldberg, Dinesh D'Souza, Peggy Noonan, Thomas Sowell  etc.as they complain about the liberal media.<br />Naturally, many conservatives will argue that these Progressives I mentioned are too extreme to be on TV. OK, so lets see what views are worthy enough to be on TV:<br />Ann Coulter: \\"We should invade their countries, kill their leaders and convert them to Christianity.\\"<br />\\"We are so good and so pure we would never engage in discriminatory racial or \\"religious\\" profiling.\\"<br />(How sweet!  Holy Ann would never engage in religious discrimination but would invade their countries and convert them to Christianity! How noble!)<br />\\"We don't need long investigations of the forensic evidence to determine with scientific accuracy the person or persons who ordered this specific attack.\\"<br />(\\"We jus' need to go get um!  Yee Haw!  And convert'um too! Funny soundin' religion yall got there, yall dont need it no more\\")<br />\\"The nation has been invaded by a fanatical, murderous cult. And we welcome them.\\"<br />(Is that you Satan? Just so you know, Coulter has a book out called \\"Slander-Liberal Lies against the Right\\", I am currently writing \\"Therapy anyone? -  Quotes from Ann Coulter\\")<br />Jerry Falwell:  \\"AIDS is the wrath of a just God against homosexuals. To oppose it would be like an Israelite jumping in the Red Sea to save one of Pharaoh's charioteers.\\"<br />(So, Christian Jerry sees homosexuals vs. Christians as being the equivalent of pursuing charioteers vs. fleeing Israelites. Sigmund Freud would have fun with that one!)<br />\\"I hope I live to see the day, when, as in the early days of our country, we won't have any public schools. The churches will have taken them over again and Christians will be running them. What a happy day that will be!\\"<br />(I hope I live to see the day when Conan O'Brian does a \\"If they mated\\" with Ann Coulter and Jerry Falwell, I think they would produce the Anti-Christ if given the chance.)<br />Pat Robertson:  \\"I think 'one man, one vote,' just unrestricted democracy, would not be wise. There needs to be some kind of protection for the minority which the white people represent now, and they need and have a right to demand a protection of their rights.\\"<br />(Getting back to Coulter's book \\"Slander\\", why would any Liberal need to lie with these kinds of quotes you give us?)<br />OK, the point is to show you how that THESE are the kinds of people that are on our television on a weekly basis while Progressives are virtually censored.  To argue that the media is liberal means either you are so blinded by the right you cannot see reality or don't know what  a real liberal/progressive is.<br />America is the only Democratic country in the world where one would be hard pressed to name a single Socialist newspaper columnist, Television personality etc. Wehave the most the most Fundamentalists in the Western World , by far. Do you really think crazies like Falwell and Coulter would be given the light of day in Europe? Progressives are virtually censored aside from a couple tokens like Moore and Nader which pale in comparison to the amount of right wing Conservatives given daily television appareances as mentioned above.<br />Do you realize that David Duke has received more television appareances than Chomsky, Zinn, Finkelstein, Said, Herman, Parenti, COMBINED?  That should pretty much close out any argument of a left wing media.c. We  have the most the most Fundamentalists in the Western World , by far. Do you really think crazies like Falwell and Coulter would be given the light of day in Europe? Progressives are virtually censored aside from a couple tokens like Moore and Nader which pale in comparison to the amount of right wing Conservatives given daily television appareances as mentioned above. <br />Do you realize that David Duke has received more television appareances than Chomsky, Zinn, Finkelstein, Said, Herman, Parenti, COMBINED?  That should pretty much close out any argument of a left wing media.	2002-11-19
US	44240248	RT4L7CBO8JJT4	0895261537	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	1	16	56	N	N	Whats so Wrong About America	Whats so wrong about America - The world's greatest terrorist state, Examples include Nicaragua, El Salvador, Vietnam, Cuba, Phillipines, among others. An Imperialist Country: Cuba, Hawaii, Phillipines, Southwestern United States. A country drenched in hypocrisy for standing for Democracy only when it suits their interest, condemning dictatorships that dont, and purporting dictatorship when it does. This is the main reason of why it is hated throughout the world. Osama hates us largely because of the dictatorship in Saudi Arabia, one of the most repressive in the world, largely supported by US government and at the same time we tell Castro to have elections and uphold Democracy! Do you know why neither Nixon or Reagan or any President before Shrub Bush-Lite was able to demand that Castro have elections? Because the US was supporting and in some cases overthrowing Democracy to prop up dictatorships for its own interests, mainly business interests and profits.<br />Examples include the overthrow of Democracy in Guatemala, Nicaragua, Chile, Columbia, Grenada, among others. Speaking of Cuba, Batista, the American supported Dictator, overthrew the Cuban Republic when it was apparent that he would lose his election and instead set up a military dictatorship, however, since this was helpful to US business interests and likely, interests of Organized crime, the US happily supported him.<br />Recent examples include Hugo Chavez and Venezuela and looking more likely, Yasir Arafat and Palestine. Two Democratically elected leaders, elected by overwhelming majorities and in Arafat's case, validated by international observers, being told by the US gov. that they should either change what told the people that elected them they wanted to do or be labeled insignificant. You read the papers, talk to the typical idiot American, they rarely will talk about how arrogant and imperialist it is to demand a Democratically elected leader , overhwhelmingly elected with a strong mandate, to back a coup against that leader, tell that leader to change, and then to ignore the will of the people. Colin Powell will not even say that if the New Elections in Palestine occur and Arafat is elected as, thanks to Bush making him look to Palestineans as a victim, he is expected to be, Powell refuses to say what would happen next. Condaleeza Rice tells Chavez to right his own ship which has clearly been going in the wrong direction. And this from an administration that was controversially elected and lost the popular vote telling leaders elected with 60% and 80% majorities to shape up or get out! How Arrogant! How Stupid! How better to anger people to attack you! How American.<br />Now Most Americans don't know a thing about this. This is only scratching the surface, men , patriots, like Noam Chomsky, have write dozens of books on the subject, mainly because the corporate, \\"free\\" press won't touch it. Thats why when Americans are confronted with foreigners that hate their country, they are completely set offguard about it! The ones that do realize it blame envy and the United Nations. You know, the UN is very ironic, when it was in its early days, the US could completely control it and thus it was shed in a good light in the US press and was popular with the public. Now, since it has included many more countries, particularly those in the third world, the US is often find isolated and out of touch with the rest of the world. Examples: Cuban Embargo, Israel. So therefore, it is increasingly unpopular with the US gov. as it fails to do what it wants, and thus, mysteriously, unpopular with Americans , especially Conservatives.<br />The recent detaining of people , including US citizens , without charging them of any crime and holding them in solitude indefinitely. The fact that we still have Imperialist bases in Cuba, Puerto Rico, etc. The suspension of the Freedom of Information act, one of the few ways people found a way to know whats going on in their gov, and Bush uses 9 11 as an excuse to do so. This is shameful and typical American Fascism. <br />Notice of course, I did not even get into racism, slavery, civil rights, discrimination, the struggle of unions and workers rights, immigrant rights, sexism, etc. Notice I did not even touch on a insane military budget, still based on Cold War levels, 15 times higher than its nearest competitor. The greed and corruption of big corporations, examples include Enron and WorldCom. Many more examples, however these are the two that are on TV so I would think most Americans would know about it.<br />I am American. I am ashamed to be one. I am ashamed to call myself American.	2002-06-27
US	44240248	RQUOKCHYRN82G	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	1	17	71	N	N	Are Conservative Schools Any Better?	I know, I know, making an intelligent criticism of a conservative book will get me unfavorable votes and the usual \\"commie\\" nonsense, but I just couldn't stop from telling the truth about this \\"new\\" neo-conservative.<BR>First off, I don't see how an author can have the nerve to critisize an institution for being too biased when he himself is the most biased person out there. His own website is a tribute to biased neo-conservative thought, with article after article after article by different reactionaries basically saying the same thing, I mean, don't you guys get bored after a while? Why is this relevant you ask? What does Horowitz say ought to be done to cure this terrible problem of liberal (bad word, remember) bias in our colleges? He recommends hiring more conservative, people like himself and those who write those articles on his webpage. However, everything we have seen from Horowitz shows that if conservatives were in power, would they in fact be moderate, tolerant or permissive of views different from their own?  Well, the answer to that is found by going to a William F. Buckley book review and having an opinion to the left of Pat Buchanan.  Remember Horowitz's article on \\"Why Reparations is a Bad Idea-Racist Too\\" won the hearts of so many conservatives as this poor neo-conservative was being rejected in school after school by the nasty liberal elite?  Sure you might be aware of that. But are you also aware what happened when liberals tried to do the same tactic to conservative schools like Bob Jones University, Liberty University, etc? Didn't think so. A liberal professor wrote a strong pro-choice article and sent to it to these conservative run schools and GUESS WHAT HAPPENED CONSERVATIVES OUT THERE??? LUCKY GUESS ANYONE? IT WAS REJECTED BY ALL!  And this was just a simple pro-choice article, a FAR less inflammatory article than David's work, in fact, John Doggett, a Black REPUBLICAN, yes, REPUBLICAN, even called Horowitz's article \\"half-truths and breathtaking demonstrations of ignorance.\\" AND \\"Unfortunately, much of what he says shows a breathtaking and dangerous ignorance of what it has been like to be black in this country during the past 50 years.\\"   A Republican said this! Honest, but still  A REPUBLICAN! (Source:[...])     I can also cite numerous legions of prestigous professors, intellectuals, and student organizations that have also heavily critisized the article but in a conservative room, I don't think they would matter very much.<BR>But if you got anything out of that last paragraph, please answer why it is that someone that has not shown the least bit interested in a fair discourse ought to be critisizing others for their lack of it, and why conservatives have the same right to do so when institutions run by conservatives do not offer a unbias view of things and arguably creates an even more bias atmosphere. You might ask Horowitz that next time he goes to a NASTY LIBERAL UNIVERSITY near you! Oh yea, I forgot, Horowitz is currently ON A SPEAKING TOUR OF THE SAME NASTY LIBERAL SCHOOLS HE LOATHS SO MUCH, so Horowitz, a neo-conservative, called by CNN and almost every other media outlet aside of Rush Limbaugh, a \\"controversial\\" author, someone thats been accused by Republicans as \\"insensitive to African Americans\\" is being allowed to speak to the possibly thousands of college students in the same schools he writes against!  Could you do that in the conservative schools?<BR>Also, we could go back in history to the pre-1960's days when conservatives DID INDEED run thing at almost every school. I don't have the room to get into here but it goes something along the line of complete control by white old men, limit of academic freedom and diversity, discriminaton against women, minorities, Jews , commies and all that good stuff can be found by looking up \\"The Opening of the American Mind:Canons, Culture, and History\\" by Lawrence W. Levine.<BR>And Finally, I would just like to know Why, oh why do conservatives waste so much time on these silly matters instead of talking about whats real? I mean really, most students are interested in partying, having a good time, getting drunk, getting lucky, and going to termpapers.com to get by, not intelligent political discourse, no matter if its a Republican, Liberal or Commie behind the stool. So why not talk about whats real, like instead of talking about what some silly left wing professor said today, why not talk about why college graduates are finding it increasingly difficult to find jobs, why the purchasing power of college graduates have declined, why the growing disparities between the wealthy and  everybody else, why radio stations and TV networks are being controlled by fewer and few hands, the same special interests funding our two major parties, the shift of unskilled labor to the third world, a growing military industrial complex that demands more money for defense yet ignores the fact that America spends more than 12 times the amount of our nearest competitor, why Americans pay more for prescription drugs than any other country in the world, corporate greed, Enron anyone? insurance greed that uses safety as an excuse to screw the drivers of America at every turn by using unrealistic speeding limits, having police and cameras monitor areas not where the most accidents are but where they can catch the most people thus raise their insurance rate, more Americans in jail than any other country, and most for non violent charges, ie simple drug possession, the drug war as an excuse to take more money from the taxpayers and to illegally dispose of unfavorable governments at the expense of Americans. These issues are very real and all this nonsense about if O'Reilly is conservative , Rather is Liberal, is just what Chomsky calls \\"Necessary Illusions\\" and it really is.	2002-06-26
US	44240248	R1KMPA6CBTX55W	0061318809	964780413	Bohemian Grove and Other Retreats: A Study in Ruling-Class Cohesiveness	Books	5	31	43	N	N	When will the media stop ignoring this story?	The Bohemian Club, a very elite club made up almost entirely, (the exception being Colin Powell) of rich, white, men who gather together in Northern California in late July.  Anyone that has looked into this Club knows how fascinating the information is on this story and how elusive it is to try to get information about it.  Let me just say how elite and how rich the members are that get into this club, our President, George W. Bush, his father, every Republican President since Hoover, Rumsfeld, Cheney, Powell, Gingrich, Andrew Card, Karl Rove, Walter Cronkite, many, many CEO's of numerous corporations, (I'm still trying to find out if any of Enron's people were Bohemian Club members)and more rich, white elite men.<br />The interesting aspect of all this is what exactly goes on there and how come most Americans have no idea about this place when you would think the media would be all over it.  There is high level security surrounding the club and it is located in a remote place in Northern California.  There are many, many rumors of strange activities there but some things are almost beyond doubt: Bohemians get drunk, it is comparable to a college fraternity, there is some gay activity by at least SOME of the members, some drug use, (which almost points to a huge hypocrisy since most of these \\"conservative, religous, family values\\" types have spoken out publically against gay rights, and have spent billions on a so called drug war)<br />Almost beyond doubt is the bizarre Pagan relationship with the Bohemian Club.  First off, it is in midsummer, which is considered a very important time in the Pagan calendar, there is a huge owl statue that has been photographed there, there are widespread rumors of some sort of sacrifice being made there ALTHOUGH the Bohemians state that it is not a live human, but just a dummy. I don't want to get into that argument, BUT my question is WHY HAVE SOME SORT OF HUMAN SACRIFICE THERE ANYWAY? Fake or real? How bizarre and strange is that?<br />There is a Bohemian Action Network there that makes regular protests against the Bohemian Club and until recently feminists have made protests there since no women were allowed to become members or work there, until recently. The Network's argument against the Club is not about the bizarre rumors but sticks to the more solid and mainstream argument that these elite and powerful people make speeches, Kissinger made one recently,and it is widely reported that in 68, Nixon convinced Reagan to stay out of the Republican primaries, and the 92, a Gulf War General told the Bohemians the actual number of Iraqi deaths but warned against telling the masses, (the other 95%), because we would not be able to handle it. That is a very common attitude at the elitist Club, that information and power should and ought to be put into the hands of the few since grassroots democracy would be dangerous, how dare the masses feel that they should rule.<br />Anyway, the Action Network argues that important policy speeches made in the Grove should not be private for the ears of the 2000 or so rich, white elitist men that are at the Club, but should be made public for all of us to hear.  A very convincing argument that is hard seriously debate.  But of course that is not likely to happen and the aspect of the Club most people will be interested in is what exactly goes on there, and how strange and bizarre are the practices there.<br />There, in a nutshell, is the Bohemian Club. The question is WHY isn't this unbelievably fascinating story being reported in the media. For those that may find this hard to believe at all, go to MSNBC webpage and search for Bohemian Club and you will find several articles on it. The Sacramento Bee and San Francisco Chronicle have also written articles about it.  On the FAIR.ORG webpage, you will find an article written by respected journalist , Jeff Cohen, (One of the guys on FNC's \\"Fox News watch, he's the REALLY liberal and left wing one! Ain't he great?) He writes how two articles from People and TIME magazine were trashed by the editory at the last minute for unknown and mysterious reasons, well probably not so mysterious if one thinks long enough.  Finally there is Alex Jones, and infowars.com, he's the man who claims, and I believe, snuck into the Bohemian Grove, and videotaped much of the activities there, of course hidden and from a distance, it appears legit to me and is truly a bizarre sight as men with hoods and torches worship the huge owl statue. If seeing that doesn't get you interested in the Club, Nothing will.<br />I hope this was not a waste of time and people will put want to find out more about this place and why it isn't being covered by the media and what exactly these priveleged, elitist hypocrites are doing and saying there.	2002-03-14
US	44240248	R2XAVU17NXHUAB	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	5	30	53	N	N	Chomksy is a pleasure for those that think.	For those that have not been brainwashed by the constant america-bush-war is good barrage by the media with corporate greed pulling the strings, Chomksy serves us with a powerful reminder of why America is so unpopular with the rest of the world and even with our supposed allies in Europe. Chomsky reminds all of us about America's terrorist activity and if there is one crititism to be made of him, is that he is too naive into believing that Americans would actually put as much value into the deaths of third world, dark skinned people as equal to the deaths of New Yorkers.  One can be ignored with the other must be avenged by awesome cruelty not even on the person that committed the act, not even on the organization that committed the act, not even the government that committed the act, but THE WHOLE COUNTRY THAT THE PERSON OR ORGANIZATION BELONGS even if that country was already in dire straits and that it would result in the deaths of thousands of innocent civilians.  But that is America.<br />America is a funny country as we so often attack the same people we gave weapons to when during the 80's. Why? To stop the Soviets, we didn't care about he actual fate of the Afghan people just as long as they didn't say they were Communist.  Human rights?  Can be ignored , what do Americans care about the conditions in third world countries unless we tell them to care of course if they become too left wing or go against American interests.  Then we need to bomb them, illegally depose the government, commit terrorist acts on innocent people, or impose a inhuman and widely condemned embargo on that country to teach them a lesson, only then will the American people care, when we want them to.<br />That is certainly American policy towards nations of the third world and the most important thing Chomsky uncovers, besides the obvious bias of the media in reporting terrorist events when the government wants us to know about them so they can have excuses for wars they always wanted,but the underlying bias Americans have in treating the deaths of Americans and the deaths of people in third world nations.<br />And how about the Northern Alliance? The Drug Lords of the Middle East now wholeheartedly supported by so called Drug Warriors of America that spend billions of dollars on a so called Drug War, I guess Bush is not thinking about fighting the drug war internationally, I guess he wants to concentrate on the home front.  Which is not surprising given his daughters habit to drink illegally and his own habit of drinking and past use of drugs when he was younger.  Not surprisingly, Bush has now made it so that students applying for federal aid to go to college must answer if they were found guilty of using drugs and if they answer yes, they will receive no aid.  The same thing Bush has done! Talk about major hypocrite!  And this is a guy that sneaked into Yale with SAT scores and a GPA that was lower that other applicants that were rejected and a so-called veteran that loves the military yet mysteriously found a way to the Texas National Guard BUT not only that, took a ten month \\"leave\\" while serving!!! What a joke!  Not that Gore was much better, but I truly feel sorry for a nation that would have voted for such a moron.  <br />Anyway, certainly read up on Chomsky's latest, as always highly recommended by one of our great thinkers of a time when so few of us actually seem to be thinking at all.	2002-03-11
US	44240248	R1BH0YM87A00VM	0451201507	608936577	Drudge Manifesto	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Drudge: Good website. Bad Book.	While I am a usual reader of Drudge's website which often tells stories that are hard to find or \\"discovered\\" before they are released to the general public, Drudge's book, however, is poorly written, hard to digest at times, and is just a bunch of rants of all the things he doesn't like in the world. I Just expected better from someone who I admire in some ways.	2001-05-03
US	44240248	R2OX6DS60R72KT	0060926430	350275263	People's History of the United States, A	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ONE OF THE ALL-TIME CLASSICS!	This book is one of those you will be telling the grandkids about! It is one you will read over and over again! It is one of those books that after reading a page, you will have to stop and reflect about what you have been heard in your life and more importantly, what you have not been told. This is an incredible book and I could not recommend it more passionately than I am...	2001-05-03
US	44240248	R354IHT39J2NOA	0452282101	976247392	The Debt: What America Owes to Blacks	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The Anti-Horowitz	Alas! A book that deals with the issue at hand and not by name-calling or divisive race baiting, but rather, an emotional and thoughtful look at the Debt America owes. Such horrors of America's treatment towards minorities has truly been reprehensible. Those racists that argue that they should not have to pay reparations because, \\"gee, whiz, I never owned a slave\\", those are the same arguments senior citizens make when they do not want to pay for public education. They say that since their kids are no longer using public schools or perhaps never used public schools, they should not have to pay for this service. Forgetting, what is best for society as a whole and selfishly thinking for themselves. They are both wrong. <BR>And isn't if funny the reaction White America gives when confronted with reparations? I mean, we live in a country that spends untold billions of our tax dollars on a military budget that is still on Cold War levels, 12-15 times that of the 2nd highest military budget, as for 9-11, how does an increase to an already highly overbloated military budget keep angry men with razor blades from getting on airplanes?  We also spend countless billions on corporate welfare by our government which is a time when conservatives will say the government ought to interfere with corporations. However, they should not be interfered with when that government demands less pollution, fairer wages, cutting loopholes for corporate taxes (ie Enron) thats a time when conservatives say government interference is not needed and people that contend it is needed are Communist. <BR>When the airlines industry needs bailing out, Uncle Sam is there to protect, when a worker is laid off by Enron, its the survival of the fittest. <BR> This government spends oodles of money on all these questionable practices that hardly gets a whisper of response from White America, but talk about something to mend slavery, one of the worst atrocities in American history, probably the worst, such asreparations, the reaction from White America is a tremendous outcry! \\"I Thought only big companies like General Motors and Enron are supposed to get our money! Not these lazy, welfare cheats! Get a job!\\"  No matter how you feel about reparations, thats very telling about white America, isn't it???	2001-05-03
US	44240248	R2V3C8T014Z9O1	0674076087	63813983	The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression	Books	1	20	160	N	N	Lets Be Fair	Studies show that Capitalism, whose crimes go far unnoticed and far more accepted, their number of deaths are even greater than that of Communism.  Also, just because a nation calls itself \\"Communist\\", doesn't make it so. Just as plenty of nations have called themselves Democratic but do not follow Democratic principles. The USSR was an aberration, just read Trotsky and his comments on the regime to get a better perception of this. Trotsky correctly predicted that the USSR and China was going to grow more and more Capitalist since it was a dictatorship of the Ruling Commisar Class and not true Communism.  I mean, we have to be fair and I hope that all the people who are the streotypical, apple-pie , America all the way die hard who only likes thinking in simplistic terms: We good, they really bad will read a \\"Black Book of Capitalism\\" book, lets see if they will.	2001-05-02
US	44240248	RVHJNRFALS64M	0385499310	833205540	Doing What's Right: How to Fight for What You Believe--And Make a Difference	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Tavis hits the nail on the head.	After reading Thomas Sowell and Jesse Lee Peterson (gasp, sigh, those smug pooh bahs really are something) I find a man, Tavis Smiley, that, what a concept, cares for his people. Smiley shows compassion not hurtful, unhealthy, and mean spirited criticism. But his solutions can help us all. Thats the great thing about those of us on the Left. Smiley's book is truly a great work full of ways for US, the common man to let our voices be heard since we all know the rich and corporations will have theirs hear. A great and inspiring read.	2001-05-01
US	44240248	R1CCYLWXU4M04X	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	1	10	146	N	N	I will get to the good stuff.	What does that title mean? Does anyone know? Anyway, this is a bad book, plain and simple, even if you happen to agree with what this person is saying, there is nothing new that right wing wackos haven't already been squawking about. Once again, Sowell shows his readers that his compassion do not lay with his own people even though a disproportionate number are in poverty, jails, stopped by police, in failing schools, high school dropouts, low paid, etc. What are his ideas towards solving these problems? Where are his answers? More tax cuts?<BR>But rather, Sowell's compassion rests with the majority, people who had every chance to succeed in life. Sowell does not see this fact. Sowell does not care about this fact. This book is just like his last one offerting nothing new and this is certainly the last time I will read a Thomas Sowell book. Another \\"pat on the back\\" for right wing conservatives, this is a book to throw in the trash.	2001-05-01
US	44240248	R97JVB7LQRAL0	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	1	10	46	N	N	One word: Disgusting!	...This book has numerous falsehoods and generalizations too numerous to mention all here. We all know there are profound diffrences to the way that America has treated whites and minorities. We know this. Everyone, but Horowitz does. He uses .left wing radicals, obscure radicals with almost no support from anyone, and uses that to paint a broad picture of the entire Left! Kind of silly, don't you think? This book is not for those with a even objective view of race relations. But a waste of time for non racists.	2001-05-01
US	44240248	R27SVQXU7V7H9W	0873481321	470939684	Eugene V. Debs Speaks	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Objective and Honest Look at a Great Man!	Jean Tussey's well written biography of the legendary Eugene V. Debs is a must read.  Conservatives will accuse this man of being &quot;un-American&quot;, but Tussey proves that Debs had more patriotism in one hand that Rush Limbaugh had in his entire body, yes the whole thing! Anyway, if you want to learn about a Socialist that cared for the people, a brilliant author and orator, a former Presidential Candidate that puts Bush and Gore to shame, and of course being thrown in jail after Amerika found out his views on WW1 were too hot to be heard in a &quot;free and democratic&quot; country.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R2WNW9THQ1KK1Z	0060921080	186682494	Declarations of Independence: Cross-Examining American Ideology	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The People's Historian does it Again!	Professor Howard Zinn, the People's Historian has exposed the hypocrisy of our Constitution. Written by sexists, racists, and  slave owners (and at least in one case, rapists.) The men, nationally cherished as &quot;heroes&quot; and &quot;great men&quot; they were the epitome of hypocrisy. Zinn exposes this.    Not only that, but Zinn exposes the hypocrisy of the Declaration of Independance and how it applies to daily American life. Thus, American &quot;freedom&quot; is no better than it was than we were under the King. This is a must read especially for those who have been brainwashed by a reactionary media.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R2EKR8YO1PBDWY	158322033X	840589660	Cutting Corporate Welfare	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ralph Nader is the best man for the job.	Ralph Nader has intelligence, convictions, heart, and character.  More of what I can say of Bush and Gore, not sending any sublinibabalbal messages of course. It would sure be nice to see a modern American political have the guts and courage Nader  has to STAND UP TO SPECIAL INTERESTS! What a concept! In his book, Nader brilliantly writes about corporate greed and welfare and who suffers??? We do!  The working man, the people. Wonder why only 49% of the American people vote? Leaving mostly the poor and lower classes left behind? Could it be that the Republicans and Democrats don't respond to their issues? These book is useful for those of us that love our nation but don't want to see it become the corporate welfare state it is oh so quickly becoming.  An excellent read.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	RIQ8T8TI5LCC8	0684864622	999961074	The Quest for Cosmic Justice	Books	1	12	123	N	N	Rants of the Priveleged Few.	Thomas Sowell, the black Republican, has finally shown his true colors. Never interested in the advancement of his people, always interested in keeping the status quo and the diffrence for the haves and have nots, Sowell shows little interest for the cause of social justice and offers no solutions, only complains and whines on behalf of white men, who have had every advantage from day one, to succeed in America.  <br />Critcising left wing ideas, which admittedly are not always correct, is not the answer to these problems. And although, not every single leftist idea under the sun is perfect, it is a far better alternative to what the GOP and the conservatives are proposing, big tax cuts to the wealthy, big loopholes for the corporations, foreign policy not geared on human rights or democracy as Venezuela has proven, but interested in purporting governments that bow to American political, and business interets. Alas, this is the staple of his book and of conservatism in general. Naysayers to the ideas of those who wish to bring resolution to the causes of social justice. But what of Sowell's ideas and solutions? He offers none	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R1LWZ7HODGEK9Y	1560251875	914537752	Che: The Photobiography of Che Guevara	Books	5	10	11	N	N	THE CHE WE KNEW!	Tired of reactionary propaganda? Want to see the Che that we know? The Che that cared in a world dominated by corporate interests that didn't care whatsoever? Than this book is for you. This looks at Che the human, not just the legend we have come to know and love. Che working in the fields with the common man, (Can't picture good ol Dubya doing that, can you?) These pictures exemplifies what El Che cared about: US! The people ignored by governments and their corporate backers.  The people in Latin America where a MAJORITY of which were poor. In many countries even today in Latin America, that is still the case.  A great look at those that know and love Che Guevera and those that still need to be introduced to the legend that cared.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R3L3AGHTPDZNK6	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	3	4	N	N	VIVA CHE!	Jon Lee Anderson's \\"Che Guevera\\" is a masterpiece. You know, some books talk about a subject and stick to it. This one tells the average reader, bombarded and blinded by a reactionary press, the things you didn't hear about but are the core of people like Che. Eisenhower Administration's \\"cozy\\" relationship with the notorious United Fruit. How the American Government cared more about exceeding the power of the already massive economy and the already very rich corporations, and to heck with the Latin Poor! This tells the true story of Latin America as a sexist and racist continent (Yes, very similar to Amerika) And one that has semi-colonized countries that bow down to American interests at all times. Anderson's Che offered hope and did more for the common man and did more for the poor than every U.S. President combined did for 50 years!	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R2DORC58QT0OB0	157886013X	189973821	A White Teacher Talks about Race	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Finally!  A book that deals with race relations honestly	This is a raw and heartfelt book that turns over some rocks en route to the truth. This tells the story of a white teacher, someone who grew up with certain priveleges, and how this person is forever linked to the world of a black man in America. Heartfelt stories of racism, prejudice, and also hopeful, courageous and positive stories as so many of these young blacks overcome these obstacles and lead productive lives. This is a tremendous book for our time that deals with race and especially important to those of us who may not understand or appreciate how the average black person in America lives and what he/she is forced to go through in America.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R3B4EU7KY0MI2W	0896086119	761007518	Rogue States: The Rule of Force in World Affairs	Books	5	13	23	N	N	Brilliant! No other word can do it justice!	Noam Chomsky is simply the master. His evidence is overwhelming. As usual, Chomsky's arguments are well-documented and persuasive. Chosmky is, in my opinion one of the greatest minds in the past 100 years. His ability to take the case of social justice to the average American, who has been blinded by a massive propaganda campaign by reactionary forces are truly commendable.  Chomsky is a true intellectual, a genious, a man of first-rate intelligence. Did I mention you ought to buy this book IMMEDIATLY??	2001-04-27
US	44240248	R3DXIYLJ8F8GWC	1567510205	584589786	Indians Are Us?: Culture and Genocide in Native North America	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A book that tells the truth.	Finally!  A book that tells the truth of how it was like to a Native American in a racist and bigoted Amerika. This book tells us about what Native Americans went through, how they lived, and how they were dealt with by a country that didn't want them. This is a tell-all book that pulls no punches. It is not for the faint of heart or flag-waving fools that never question Amerika's history. A real eye-opener. Highly Recommended.	2001-04-27
US	44240248	REWIY4ZTP6GB8	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	1	10	73	N	N	Horror-witz does it again.	A Radical Neo-Conservative born of a Radical Son. Whether you love or hate David Horowitz, we all must agree he sure loves attention and controvesy. Whether he's joining the Black Panthers, citing Marx or joining the racists in trying to abolish affirmitive action and reparations. Radical Son only makes one thing clear: Horror-witz is a attention-loving Radical whose views, no matter on what side of aisle, are always controversial and inflammatory. They seek to enrage or strike great passion in people thus creating a steady market of people that love or hate him and will be good for publicity and for buying more books. This book, however, like all of his radical left wing or reactionary right wing stances, are all a waste of time.	2001-04-26
US	44240248	R1RF2BRZS2A5VH	0465017444	308778483	Left Out: A Political Journey	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A great book written by a great man.	For more years than Rush Limbaugh has been alive, Martin Duberman has been writing about the cause of social justice for everyone. In \\"Left Out\\", he superbly shares his essays and thoughts over the last 35 years. Whether he's battling the neos over freedom for Gays and civil rights for blacks, whether he's twisting arms to write a book on the not-so-moral outlook on a good ol Southern boy, the works are solid and lively. A very clear and persuasive argument and reasoning why the Left is the only place left for those who care. Remember that from womens to civil to gay rights, the Left was on the right side and the conservatives were in the wrong. Do not miss this book thats not afraid to state that clearly and eloquently!	2001-04-26
US	44240248	RMECTPK4F5DR6	1557787883	323279141	From Rage to Responsibility: Black Conservative Jesse Lee Peterson and America Today	Books	1	5	38	N	N	Sigh! Another Self Hating Black writes a book.	Jesse Lee Peterson. An African American? Yes. An author? Yes. A man with a majority, now wait thats too kind, a man with significant, nope wrong again, here we go, a man with ANY SUPPORT from the African American community? NO. This is a feel-good book for those Republicans who want to at least pretend they want the black vote. This provides those Republicans with an excuse: Its not our fault, its theirs! If Republicans are content with single digit numbers from the black community, by all means, read this book.  <BR>Response to some of the critics: Not that I would think a conservative would put any credibility into the overwheliming opinions, of the African-American community, but my point was in stating that, was to make people think, \\"Gee, if 90-95% of Blacks reject this man and what he believes, maybe they're on to something! Maybe, just maybe, African Americans know what is right and wrong and needs to be changed within the African-American community a little, JUST A LITTLE, more than the average, Rush Limbaugh listener, right wing male with a laptop living in the suburbs.	2001-04-26
US	44240248	RP9JXD0PGNBDL	0452272068	69768333	Stonewall	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Excellently Researched- A Must Read!	This tells the story of the struggle of gays in America and the great Stonewall riots of the 60s that made Conservative America realize the existence of gay people and how they would no longer be treated as second-class citizens. (A story largely ignored and continued to be ignored by the mainstream press) and the boiling point. Stonewall is when gays strucks back and fought force with force. Violence with violence. No longer would they tolerate such abuses of their basic rights in supposedly \\"freedom-loving\\" America. Well-Researched, well-written, a great book and a must read for all!	2001-04-26
