US	44375481	R12JR2PW5YI1AK	3791316028	25073137	Dali : Catalogue Raisonne of Prints II Lithographs	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	As with Vol. 1, this is imperfect but still the best source available!	This book was a rather daring undertaking.  As you probably know many years and many lines of print were spent decrying the plethora of Dali forgeries and photomechanical reproductions of his works printed on pre-signed paper.  It was a scandal, it was scandalous, to be sure.  So, for instance, when I was involved with the sale of prints by Dali, an editorical choice was made to never ever sell a Dali Lithograph for the simple reason that there was just too much stink surrounding them.  In fact, I was under the impression that virtually all of his alleged work product of lithographs was phony partially because of his self-professed disdain for the medium.  This book disabused me of this notion because it is full of very early and often, I hate to say it, visually exciting and beautiful works by the man that really causes one to wish to own some.  This book does discuss the scandal surrounding Dali briefly, very briefly, and notes that the editors got far less cooperation from various galleries in the course of their research than they did for the first volume of the catalogue which dealt with the etcthings, etc.  No mention was made of the multi-million dollar judgment against Center Art Galleries in Hawaii, for instance, that was apparently responsible for a whole boat load of the inauthentic stuff.  Anyway, the book is broken up into three parts.  The introductory discussion, roughly 75 pages of well-done full color reproductions and roughly 100 pps. of cataloguing data recording edition size, printer, medium, etc.  I don't believe that any of the photomechanical reproductions produced by Center are included but I do notice a Center Art Gallery commissioned series or two.  In that vein, the page dedicated to known forgeries and unauthorized edtions is only about, well one half page.  This seems far too short, and the editors admit to the herculean task it would be to get more extensive and accurate information in print.  Suffice it to say that a lot of swamp land ground was not covered.  I'd recommend sticking strictly to the, ahem, book in your search for Dali Lithographs and let the sands of time sort out the sordid bits in another, different book.  This comes with my highest recommendation especially for print collectors.ground was not covered.  I'd recommend sticking strictly to the, ahem, book in your search for Dali Lithographs and let the sands of time sort out the sordid bits in another, different book.  This comes with my highest recommendation especially for print collectors.	2005-09-09
US	44375481	R2KBJWKWWPYIDB	3791312790	778868270	Salvador Dali: The Catalogue Raisonne of Etchings and Mixed-Media Prints, 1924-1980 (Art & Design)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Not perfect but the best available on the topic: A must own f/ collectors	This book was long overdue.  Granted, there is an earlier book published by Albert Field that attempted a catalogue raissonne but this one done with help from longtime Dali collaborator/confidant Robt. Descharnes is at least as good and perhaps better.  If you are a Dali print collector you are doubtless familiar with the rumors of forgery and fraud surrounding much of Dali's print ouevre.  If you are not, the introductory material in this book will help to bring you up to speed.  Fortunately, most of the flim flam material is off-set lithography and doesn't actually come within the purview of this book which covers only Etchings and Mixed-Media prints from 1924-1980.  In reality, this is the pithy meat of Dali's print work.  It is were a collector will find the most expensive and desirable prints and it is also where it showcases Dali's mastery of the drawn line.  The format of the book is an introductory discussion of Dali's print-making history and the evolution of his signature and choice of paper.  (Interestingly, there is an illuminating discussion of a couple of his most important print editions, especially the 'Chants de Maldoror' that any serious collector must become familiar with).  Then there is more than 100 pps of color plates that highlight a lot of his prints, and here is where I lodge my only complaint about the book and which, in my opinion, brings it down a notch.  For, the color reproductions at times have a slight, very slight, grainy-fuzzy quality to them which speak of less than stellar Book-plate reproduction values.  This is a shock because this is a Prestel publication printed and bound in Germany; other books from this publisher that I own are of extreme high quality.  Following the many full page color reproductions is an approximately 130 pps. raissonne with extensive edition information including dates, edition sizes, printers, publishers and media.  This is an excellent resource and also a beautiful, well-made art book even with the tiny demerit for less than perfect reproduction values, and a worthwhile purchase for people who collect prints, enjoy prints, and enjoy Dali's work in that order.ny demerit for less than perfect reproduction values, and a worthwhile purchase for people who collect prints, enjoy prints, and enjoy Dali's work in that order.	2005-09-08
US	44375481	R32ALWN8O9BLAT	0312238665	187984435	Rebels, Pretenders and Imposters	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I agree with first review about star rating but would qualify review.	The premise of the book is of course imposters and pretenders to the throne, various thrones and it is written by two curators at the British Museum.  This book does have some excellent reproductions of coinage of the pseudo-realms covered but hardly dwells on it.  Really they are just put out there as examples of historical ephemera from the 'kingdoms' claimed.  The book's structure is actually built around a few sub-headings that exemplify various manifestations of claims to crown or country using a number of techniqes:  Rebellion, in which a rebel overthrows the established authority in an area and proclaims a new nation; pretenders to the throne in which there is a disputed or competing claims to the crown with a pretender attempting to fulfill his 'birthright'; imposters and slave kings, the chapter heading pretty much says it all; dreamers and hoaxers which you can imagine about and finally 'the nation as pretender.'  While this topic could have been made quite fascinating, I think that the authors chose instead to condense much information in too few pages and also were unable to really spice up the tales.  Thus, while this book is interesting, especially to coin collectors I think, it isn't a really good read.	2005-08-20
US	44375481	R1235MTT3Y8QK7	0942666267	215811829	So-Called Dollars	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Interesting 1982 reprint of 1953 pamphlet in two parts.	Despite its very short length, only 20 pps., this pamphlet is packed with interesting photographs and information.  This book by Richard D. Kenney (not E. Kenny as mistakenly stated in this amazon listing) is formatted in two parts: Exposition & Commemorative Medals, and Bryan & Lesher Dollars, Miscellaneous Monetary & Other Issues.  The first part consists of approx. 106 entries.  Most, if not all, of these entries will be found in the best source for 'So-called Dollars' by Hibbler & Kappan but I believe that it is formatted in a way that makes it easier to read and refer to than the larger book.  This is because for each major medal featured, there is a couple of lines of important identifying information and some background information about the impression, issuance cost and sales format, etc. and then a run down of the various metallic compositions that the medal was offered in (Not always accurate because often not extensive enough to cover various metallic compositions, etc.).  The real novelty of this reprint of the original is that this article is what essentially kicked off this branch of exonumia....Hibler & Kappen in fact include a cross-reference chart that relates each entry here in the vastly superior HK Hardcover book.  Part II is good because it gives one two nice bibliographic entries identifying publications of the ANA for those who wish to get even more information on the Bryan & Lesher Dollars, and the Monetary & Other Issues (only 4 entries of this latter category).  Anyway, this is not an essential read as the Hibbler & Kappen book is, but it is a nice addition to your reference collection if you are a serious collector of this exonumia.	2005-07-29
US	44375481	R2H7G6YJ3DEKAP	1561585351	413886448	Renovating Old Houses: Bringing New Life to Vintage Homes (For Pros By Pros)	Books	5	143	145	N	N	If you think you need it, you probably do, and you should own it!	I got this on a recommendation from somebody who does work on interior walls of houses when I asked for an information source for stripping old wall paper and rerairing lathe and plaster walls.  If you've ever looked at 'how to' books on home repairs or re-models, you doubtless have found them either overly technical, unrealistically involved, unreadably boring or way off-topic.  If you own an old house and would like to do repairs on it but don't know where to begin or what to do, this is a great reference for pointing you in the right direction and getting you started on your project.  The really cool thing about this book is that the author has a knack for explaining things succinctly yet simply and then illustrating what he means with excellent photographs in a way that causes one to realize right away whether the project one proposes to do is realistically undertaken or better left to experts.  You can't imagine the disappointment one feels when one has begun a project that some flimsy how-to book (perhaps written to sell product) has promised to guide one through, only to discover too late that the problems covered are not at all the same ones being encountered.  Usually this occurs because the authors presuppose that they are dealing with an audience trying to fix their mid-60's home, mid-1960's that is, and not something about twice as old.  The the beauty of this book is that nearly every problem and project discussed is going to have you saying, \\"Wow, I've got that problem,\\" or \\"Man, I wish somebody had shown me that before,\\" or \\"What an excellent, elegant solution.\\"  Most of the other books I've consulted had me instead running off to a hardware store or a contractor to get the problem 'fixed' by simply getting rid of it and replacing it with something 'NEW.'  Finally, this book makes things look so straightforward that I believe it will give most readers the courage and encouragement they need to begin to tackle stuff they've wanted to but have been putting off for years because of their heretofore intractibility.ing off for years because of their heretofore intractibility.	2005-07-28
US	44375481	RETNKB8XC2FLV	0794819109	408016361	NGC Grading Guide for Modern U.S. Coins: Grading Tips - Census Reports	Books	4	11	13	N	N	I quite like this pricey 'ultra' modern resource: here's why	This book actually rates three stars because it is quite expensive for what you get, but it is still a really excellent resource for those who do one of three things:  1) collect Modern Commemoratives; 2) collect US Mint Bullion Coins; 3) collect Ultra Moderns (I say ultra moderns because until this book's new definition of moderns, traditional coin collectors deem all 20th century coins 'moderns'.  This one begins the count from the year 1965; although interestingly it includes the Proofs, which for this particular time sequence is very important.  This book is good in the sense that the Forward really makes one excited about collecting these ultras where it discusses the genre and explains that this is a legitimate area of collecting interest where one can build a substantial collection rapidly and for a relatively small cost.  In this day and age of inflated coin prices for some of the rarer and more desirable coins amongst even the traditional moderns, there has to be a niche for new comers, kids, etc. and this niche is it.  It is also good in the sense that it give census numbers of these coins as graded by NGC and explains how one should extrapolate certain of these numbers (for instance, that there is a great number of MS 68 Silver Eagles that go unslabbed because of the high minimum grade reqt. of submitters).  The reviewer below protested that this count is too narrow, but the point is that this is a book as published by NGC and doesn't purport to have the entire census universe numbers contained in it.  This is still nice because most coin collectors, such as myself, will subscribe to just one or two services and so will have access to those companies' census counts but not others.  So, while I have PCGS' pop. reports and ltd. access to ICG's, this NGC count is a handy reference for me.  I was especially pleased about two aspects of this book's layout.  The biggest one was the 'Rarities and Notable Varieties' notes section in which the 'key' coins are highlighted.  For instance, I collect Jeffersons but was not aware of the special, so-called 'specimen' coins minted in 1994 and 1997, both of which I will now look out for.  The other nice thing is the 'NGC Quick Tip' which warns the reader of certain quirks that one should look out for, for instance scraping on the Eisenhower Dollar on Eagle Feathers and Obverse, just as a coincidence, I had set aside a large number of these recently wondering what was up with this.  In future, I will focus in on those areas before making a purchase.  Finally, this book is the only handy reference I know that devotes an entire section complete with pictures of all of the Modern Commemoratives to date.  This latter sub-section of coins is one that may yet emerge as an important branch of American Numismatics.  For those of you who wish to get a head start, this is a good resource to turn to for now.  Oh, and finally, finally, for the very first time in a coin book an entire section is devoted to the Bullion coins that have been issued by the Mint and this area too is becoming ever more popular, and is one that I believe will get ever stronger in years to come (even stronger, in my opinion, than the Modern Commmemorative genre).  Anyway, even though this book is spendy when new, I can recommend getting it, possibly discounted, if you have an interest in any of the areas above that I have mentioned.lighted.  For instance, I collect Jeffersons but was not aware of the special, so-called 'specimen' coins minted in 1994 and 1997, both of which I will now look out for.  The other nice thing is the 'NGC Quick Tip' which warns the reader of certain quirks that one should look out for, for instance scraping on the Eisenhower Dollar on Eagle Feathers and Obverse, just as a coincidence, I had set aside a large number of these recently wondering what was up with this.  In future, I will focus in on those areas before making a purchase.  Finally, this book is the only handy reference I know that devotes an entire section complete with pictures of all of the Modern Commemoratives to date.  This latter sub-section of coins is one that may yet emerge as an important branch of American Numismatics.  For those of you who wish to get a head start, this is a good resource to turn to for now.  Oh, and finally, finally, for the very first time in a coin book an entire section is devoted to the Bullion coins that have been issued by the Mint and this area too is becoming ever more popular, and is one that I believe will get ever stronger in years to come (even stronger, in my opinion, than the Modern Commmemorative genre).  Anyway, even though this book is spendy when new, I can recommend getting it, possibly discounted, if you have an interest in any of the areas above that I have mentioned.	2005-06-25
US	44375481	RY8SAZ7WW975Z	0517159244	444684622	Three Picassos Before Breakfast	Books	3	5	5	N	Y	Buy this if you are interested in the genre, and it ain't 1/2 bad	This isn't the greatest memoir one will ever come across but it will do.  If the author comes off as a bit self-obsessed and vapid at times, she also is quite forthcoming, in her breathless style, with information about the stuff we really care about:  the places, names, approximate dates and genres of the art forgery creations of her notorious husband.  David Stein was a wheeler dealer art dealer who discovered that he had a knack for creating reasonable facsimiles of works in the style of established artists and an even better on for foisting these forgeries off upon supposed experts and connoisseurs as originals.  In part this was a function of the times:  The 1970's was a time when owning works of fine art became an integral part of announcing to the world that one had arrived.  As such, the demand for these pieces became frenzied, which drove up prices which caused a large number of fraudsters to create and peddle art fakes and forgeries in increasing numbers.  It even reached a point where the artists themselves became party to forgeries of their own works (For instance the signing by Salvador Dali of blank sheets of Arches Papier for a set fee per signature which then were printed with 'original lithographs' and sold as such).  Anyway, anybody who is interested in collecting works of art on paper by the major and minor artists of the so-called Modern School would be foolish if they did not read this and other books on the subject to gather some clues that may stand them in good stead in their hunt for authentic works.  This book also has some photographic plates of the artist at work and of some examples of his work.  This is a quick and easy read flaws and all that you should add to your collection, art collectors.	2005-06-23
US	44375481	R1B4XA6GX6CH0V	B00071W5D2	939597277	The Jefferson nickel analyst	Books	5	15	15	N	N	This is the single best book on the Jeff available.	This review pertains to the 2002 update of this valuable reference book. The book itself is softcover and approx. 90 pps. and about 8 1/2\\" x 11\\".  When this book was first written the author had just come off of a few years of buying and selling literally thousands of rolls of nickels.  These rolls were readily available due to the blow up of the coin roll craze of the 1960's and 1970's.  From this occupation, the author compiled a series of key facts about the nickels and produced this book.  I put this as the single most helpful book on coins that I own (this is a close choice, as Lange's Buffalo Book is beautiful and equally helpful, the tie being broken because I use the Jeff book on a regular basis, the Buff book gets consulted less often because I buy fewer of 'em, but I still highly recommend Lange's book---see my coinbooks list) because the author not only speaks to the specific characteristics of the Nickel through its iterations, updated designs, mint mark changes, strike characteristics between years and mints, etc. but he also includes helpful photographs of most of the changes that actually show what he is speaking about.  He also helpfully includes the major varieties with photos and discussions and does a better job at showing these than any other book I've seen.  Finally, the author breaks down the expected availability of Nickel rolls by year and Mint Mark.  More importantly, he makes predictions about the frequency of appearance of Five and Six Step coins.  Thus, one can look up the 1980-P to find out that availability of \\"uncirculated single coins is common, but rolls are seldom available; that appearance of Unc. coins is brilliant, satin to flashy and blazing; that some Proof-like examples exist; that the frequency of appearace of Five Step coins is 1:20 and that Six Step coins are very rare; finally that this date and subsequent issues using the same reverse are often seen showing die wear that can be extreme\\"....etc. and so on.  If you are serious about putting together a collection of Jefferson Nickels, this is a must own book.  I can't say it any more bluntly. (See other Nickels focussed books on my Listmania list: Coinbooks for Coonhounds).ous about putting together a collection of Jefferson Nickels, this is a must own book.  I can't say it any more bluntly. (See other Nickels focussed books on my Listmania list: Coinbooks for Coonhounds).	2005-05-13
US	44375481	R327G9YGGAT3OD	096285770X	404280310	Cameo and Brilliant Proof: Coinage of the 1950 to 1970 Era	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Get Ready To Become Very Interested In Proof Coins!!!	You are about to enter into a covenant with a devil:  The Ultimate Cameo Proof Coin.  After you have begun to read this book, which will initially picque your interest only because it is so beautifully made, you will fall hopelessly, madly in love with the United States Mint Proof Coin!  Yes, even though you don't like them or even know much if anything about them, the author of this book is going to take you on such a journey through the various proof coins of the 1950 to 1970 era that you are going to go out shortly after reading this book to seek out some nice proof coins, really.  I can't exactly tell you why I know this but trust me on it, you will.  I think it is partly because the author describes in such loving detail, date by date, denomination by denomination, what it is about a particular strike that makes one wish to own it, or at least to find it.  I think it is also partly because the author has done such a fine job of photographing the various stages of proof that one can literally use this book as a photograde comparison guide....alas, I did to mine and now know that I don't presently own any ultra-heavy cameo proofs, BUT I WILL....believe me, I will.  This is a definite addition to the coin reference library.	2005-04-18
US	44375481	REWFKNCOL187V	1892706024	690056466	The complete price guide and cross reference to Lincoln cent mint mark varieties	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This Gem is how ALL  such coin books should be written!	I stumbled upon this little gem at my local bookstore and was immediately blown away at how well-constructed the durned thing is.  I'm not talking about the physical characteristics, although I must say that I do like the fact that it is a spiral bound paperback, and slightly larger than a pocketbook.  What I mean is that it is chockablock full of inumerable nuggets of vital RPM and mintmark Variety information such that it seems to leave no aspect unexamined.  What is really cool about it is that the b/w photographic blow-ups are of Extremely High Quality so that, unlike in most coin books, one can actually see what the author is attempting to point out. (Note:  For an impossibly bad example, I mean excellent example of the impossibly bad, see 'the best of the jefferson nickel doubled die varieties....only thing unfunny is the high price that you will pay to get the lavishly photographed book whose beautiful pictures almost never show what the author purports to be pointing out).  Also, the book has a delightful feature titled the 'Most Wanted' which dedicates a whole page each of information and photo to a number of particularly good and rare varieties.  The book also has broken down the varieties into varieties so, for instance, there is a section on 'Over and Dual Mint Mark Varieties' and one on 'Non Doubled Mint Mark Varieties' both with heaps of excellent information.  Plus there are population reports, comparative raritiy charts, and all kinds of other great info that will leave the unbelieving reader in awe of the authors/editors.  I highly recommend this book even if you don't collect Lincolns:  I don't and I think this is a Super Book and an ESSENTIAL to own.	2005-04-18
US	44375481	R3LF1SDGCHP1U1	0967965519	92515890	The Best of the Jefferson Nickel Double Die Varieties 2nd ed.	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Flawed but helpful resource: Not enough bang for the buck	If you are interested in Jefferson Nickels and specifically Jefferson varieties then you ought to own this book.  Don't buy it with the impression that this is a comprehensive guide because, as its title implies, this supposedly covers only the BEST OF the Jefferson Nickel Doubled Die Varieties.  Even this title is a bit misleading as the resource pretty much ceases at the year 1971 (one '72 and an '81).  Up until that point, I'm happy to say, the catalogue does do a good job of highlighting a lot of the available varieties and what is especially nice is that it documents a LOT of the Proof Varieties which are neglected in other resource guides.  This book is also chockablock full of blown up photos that purport to show the doubling as well as key markers that help one to identify particular varieties.  Having said that, the photos, while a help are certainly not dispositive because they don't always clearly show what the authors are trying to point out.  In my opinion this is a flawed but helpful resource guide that will have to do until the third edition appears.	2005-03-17
US	44375481	R7THQNL590ICM	1880731657	152108411	The Complete Guide to Buffalo Nickels, 2nd Edition	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	I ain't Bufalloin' ya, this is the Best Coin Book I Own!!!	Hats off to the author and editors of this book, for it is EXCELLENT!!!  This is one of the best laid out, best produced and most thoughtfully written books on coins that I own and, indeed, have yet seen.  I highly recommend this to anyone who has an interest in Buffalos.  Yes, it is spendy, but with hardcover and good quality reproduction and paperstock (certainly not the highest quality, but good nonetheless), this has to take its place as one of the best values in the coin book world.  What I like about this book is that it lays it all out right from the beginning with a protracted but not uninteresting discussion of how the coin came about and including all of the technical/political issues facing the artist, engravers and minters, etc., including lots of pithy back and forth amongst them all as issues are resolved.  Next is a chapter on how to grade Buffaloes, one that discusses varieties and rarities and, importantly, then takes on the issue of fakes, frauds and counterfeits that attempt to mimic the rarities.  Finally, comes a coin by coin discussion singling out each year and mint with a discussion of relative rarity in various conditions, strike anomalies and, most helpfully, includes photographic examples of important varieties.  This is really a super and helpful reference book and I think you would do well to own.	2005-03-01
US	44375481	R2C8HI2S57X1GX	0965762645	847790169	Reefer Madness: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market (Uncorrected Proof)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Easy to read, entertaining and disturbing ethnosociology.	You'll be able to breeze through this book possibly because it is written by a chap who also writes for magazines which means he knows how to get to the point.  Reefer Madness is a book that takes on three seemingly unrelated topics and tries to tie them together in such a fashion that it makes a statement about contemporary American Culture.  I have chosen to give this book Four Stars only because, while I found the book quite interesting and the discussion engaging if disturbing, I came away unconvinced that these three things have are any more able to sum up the Nation's zeitgeist (or dysfunction), than any other three things that arguably illlustrate our schizophrenic cultural tendencies, say the Methamphetamine craze, rampant and pervasive white collar crime and our cockamamie foreign policy.  In section one the author discusses the odd juxtaposition of the widespread and safe consumption of marijuana and the draconian punishments and penalties doled out for its use, sale and growth. In the next, he describes the conditions surrounding an entire economy (agricultural America, California, however you want to break it down) that is dependent upon a huge pool of cheap and illegal labor and extrapolates it to our national economy.  In the final section he traces the rise and fall of two early pornographers, rather porn merchants, making the ironic connection between a publicly stated abhorrence of the trade with the rather massive amounts of money that the condemning parties spend on it for private use.  In a brief final chapter the author tells us that these three things are somehow emblematic of and a natural outgrowth of the small government mantra chanted by a new breed of Conservatives who praise free enterprise above all and condemn big government but whose policies actually enlarge the government in order to stamp out perceived ills while lessening government oversight for favored business ventures.  There is an internal contradiction in the argument and I think that you as the reader will pick up on it as you read along.  I think that the author would have been more successful if he had chosen to make this a book about right and wrong and the role that money plays to twist the result of the equation.  This point of view would be especially effective in that part of the book where he uses direct quotes from specific politicians who call for strict penalties right up to the death penalty for drug dealers and then who hypocritically intervene on behalf of their own children to free them from punishment after they have been caught, you guessed it, dealing drugs.  Perhaps doing this would have made the book less easy to read, certainly it would have made it less easy to write but it would have made it that much better.  Anyway, I think that it won't hurt you to buy and read this book.  Doing so will probably make you angry, it will certainly open your eyes to some things about our laws that will leave you disturbed and it may even help you to become a better citizen, all for less than ten bucks used.hink that you as the reader will pick up on it as you read along.  I think that the author would have been more successful if he had chosen to make this a book about right and wrong and the role that money plays to twist the result of the equation.  This point of view would be especially effective in that part of the book where he uses direct quotes from specific politicians who call for strict penalties right up to the death penalty for drug dealers and then who hypocritically intervene on behalf of their own children to free them from punishment after they have been caught, you guessed it, dealing drugs.  Perhaps doing this would have made the book less easy to read, certainly it would have made it less easy to write but it would have made it that much better.  Anyway, I think that it won't hurt you to buy and read this book.  Doing so will probably make you angry, it will certainly open your eyes to some things about our laws that will leave you disturbed and it may even help you to become a better citizen, all for less than ten bucks used.	2005-03-01
US	44375481	R1DLX5YU1ZP2PS	B0007DX8B8	22609132	So-Called Dollars: An Illustrated Standard Catalog with Valuations	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Still THE primary reference even after 40+ years	Forty plus years after this landmark reference was published, this remains the single most authoritative and comprehensive reference book on this fascinating branch of exonumia.  Although various attempts have been made to expand and update this reference (via a 24 pps. price supplement in 1984 among others), to date nobody has had the wherewithal to actually produce another book that can supplant this precious resource.  This state of affairs actually has its benefits, here's how:  The 1962 cut-off date and otherwise rather comprehensive coverage of the genre allows So-called Dollars collectors to actually 'collect the book.'  I've been told by a contemporary so-called dollars expert that this now costs six figures to do it right.  This book includes many photos of catalogued items, a brief historical background of the circumstances leading to the striking of the medal and mintage and composition numbers.  As I write this in 2005, it is still an excellent time to get on board the collecting bus as there are still excellent examples available at good prices in an area of numismatics that is fast being occupied by hard core numismatist purists who increasingly view the coin market as being dominated by speculators, investors and corporate coin retailers.	2005-02-08
US	44375481	R1UXVTP7Y7BXUP	B0006BZJOK	419866905	Complete guide for profitable coin investing and collecting	Books	3	0	0	N	N	I love these old coin investment guides, you may too!	The cover blurbs pretty much sum this book up: 'Railroad conductor reveals his simple system for pyramiding a several-dollar coin investment into one million dollars,' & 'Simple ten-year coin retirement programs.'  Still, I recommend this book to those who are serious about making money by investing/dealing/speculating in coins.  This is not because I believe the author has discovered a road to riches.  Actually, some of his information, thus his money making systems based on it, has little relevance to the coin market of today, particularly as it relates to  speculation in coin rolls and using a mail bid system to sell coins.  This book was published in 1969, afterall.  What the author does bring to the table is a way of looking at the coin market as an investment vehicle, a very cogent take on the ups and downs (booms and busts) of the coin market cycle and, most tellingly, contemporary pricing.  Yes, that's correct, one of the most sobering elements of this book is the lists of 1969 coin prices (often compared to earlier year prices) as they compare to today's prices.  I think that you will be quite shocked in some cases even if pleasantly so at times, and perhaps even frightened.  I need not say more but that if you get this or a similar book you will immediately understand what I am saying.  Also important is the author's discussion of certain manias concerning such things as the 1960 Lincoln small date in which some fortunate people made thousands of 1960's dollars in the beginning and others lost similar amounts when the bubble blew up.  Fast forward 30 years and think about the brouhaha surrounding the very first Delaware Quarters.  In other words, speculative coin bubbles are likely to happen at any time and the fast and adroit amongst us will end up making a lot of money.  Appropos of this, consider the author's discussion of Mint Set investing.  I'll say no more but if you are serious about speculating in coins, this book and others like it are an excellent means for getting cheap, quick market savvy that may help you to avoid losing significant amounts of money.nt means for getting cheap, quick market savvy that may help you to avoid losing significant amounts of money.	2005-02-05
US	44375481	R2NIH9IK0VJMWI	B0006EPCQ2	408019342	Custer Battlefield: A history and guide to the Battle of the Little Bighorn : Custer Battlefield National Monument, Montana (Handbook / Division of Publications, National Park Service)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting and worthwhile for the photos and diagrams	This is a publication of the US National Park Service sold to accompany a visit to the Custer Battlefield site.  I found it a worthwhile read even though I haven't visited the battlefield.  The author gives a broad historical outline of the events that lead up to what has become the only legendary battle in United States Military history.  This is important because, while everybody and his brother knows about, and probably believes he knows all about, 'Custer's Last Stand' (Small contingent of Indian braves act as decoys to lead Custer into a rapid slaughter by an overwhelming Indian force ) I believe that this narrative will certainly put that notion to rest.  In the first place, nobody knows what actually transpired....well, duh, there were no survivors (but for a horse; NOT Custer's horse) and second, the actual battle is thought to have lasted for a number of hours.  I won't spoil anymore hoary chestnuts for you but would like to say that the photographs of the Indians and soldiers directly involved in the battle and the contemporary photos of the battle site plus maps and diagrams make this a worthwhile purchase in and of themselves.  Three stars for the casual observer, four stars and above for the really keen.	2005-02-05
US	44375481	R39XZFM5UZHDP1	B00073BC3E	667081876	Went missing, II	Books	5	1	1	N	N	If you are reading this, you are going to enjoy this book.	Yes, that's correct.  You are going to like this book.  I know because the idly curious are just not going to find this title.  This is the expanded version of the original that was so popular that the author went back and researched shipwrecks/disasters on all of the Great Lakes.  This is a quite well-researched, well-written book that is told with a lot of interesting information such as quotes from witnesses, anecdotal evidence and gossip as well as good solid details from the official accounts.  The book, in approx. 222 pps., is illustrated with numerous 1/4 page B&W photos, and there is a short bibliography at the end of each 'chapter.'  I have to admit that much of the detail here is chilling stuff because there is something especially creepy and chilling about a ship that founders and disappears.  If I have any complaint it is on behalf of salvage and shipwreck divers because there is not as much location detail as a 1980's book might have included for such afficionados.  Anyway, this is an excellent book for those with a specific interest in shipwrecks.	2005-01-21
US	44375481	R1EQDUSZK9Q1K8	087349265X	384449661	The Standard Catalog of Hard Times Tokens 1832-1844: The Most Complete Catalog Ever Assembled of the Coin Substitures, Merchant Counterstamps and Satirical Scrip of the Jacksonian Period	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Amazongly informative resource jam-packed w/ critical info	This book focussing on a period of time which the authors state is known at America's First Great Depression, is one of the most well-constructed and well-thought out numismatic books I own.  It has loads of great photos (1000) accompanied by important information (relative rarity, size, metal, production year, 2000-01 auction results where applicable, and fascinating commentary that helps to identify or place the token in the genre).  According to the authors in their rather opaque and fuzzy introduction, these Hard Times Tokens took the place of circulating change because of a shortage resulting from the peculiar Jacksonian economic politics of the time (including the fight over a Federal banking system).  Hence their artwork and slogans often trenchantly reflected the contemporary politics prevailing (either in the form of satire or pure political sentiment).  In recognition of this, the authors dedicate an entire section of this book to the Satirical Hard Times Token genre, in addition to cataloguing the token issues along individual State lines.  Additionally, there are sections concerning Hard Times related Ephemera/Paraphernalia/Notes, so-called 'Store Cards,' and even Slave Tags.  The appendices contain information on the ever-expanding numbering system; an examination of the methodology used for identifying coin states and iterations; discussions on token designers and producers; and wonderful photographic blow-ups as examples.  As I said, this reference is jam packed with essential information.  As such, I highly recommend this book to seasoned collector and novice alike.  It rates 4 stars only because, for the price, it should be hardbound.  A new stand alone edition of this text has been released approximately every 5 years so this 9th Edition should remain current until the next prospective update in the year 2006/7.	2004-12-29
US	44375481	R3I5TZU4712J6G	B0006WWYFG	210483149	How you can keep on making big profits investing in coins / Harry J. Forman	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Past pricing info on mint sets/BU roll make this worthwhile	This is an interesting little book on a small number of levels.  In the first place, it has some pretty heavy weight endorsements.  Second, it is a nice snapshot of the coin market at publication date.  Third, it gives selective pricing info from the past and the then present on things that one doesn't often see this kind of data on: US Mint Sets/Proof Sets and BU Rolls.  The premise of this particular book is to build on an earlier one in which the author made specific recommendations on sets, rolls and a few coins which turned out to be amazingly prescient in many cases.  Here, the author builds his case for the next leg up of the new and used coin market and explains how he makes his calculations.  You will notice two things about this discussion whilst reading today.  A) Predictions that may be correct for a particular time can then become incorrect when imposed on a different time, e.g. today.  B)  Many of the then current prices are unexpectedly and profoundly higher than you can buy the same items for today.  Never fear, the author explains why this happens.  Like any market, the coin market is cyclical.  Since the turn of the century, we have seen a stonger and strengthening coin market.  It is possible, perhaps likely, that we will continue to see further price strengthening for some years.  If you are an investment minded coin buyer, it may be a good time to read a book such as this to help you to make decisions that could well help you to make some money and, more importantly, avoid losing great amounts.  I'm not sure that this is a must read but it is a must say on my part that doing so certainly won't hurt one and it may well help.	2004-12-20
US	44375481	RNFJZ0PYFQYII	0446345334	841281697	Child's Play	Books	5	25	25	N	N	This is a really good read!	I'm flabbergasted that nobody has chosen to review this book before.  This is my first exposure to Mr. Hill's writing and I am impressed.  Hill is an English writer of detective mystery fiction.  This book is one in a series that revolves around the workings of a pair of policemen based in Northern England, one of whom is a Rabelaisian, dyed in the wool Yorkshireman, the other a University educated middle class everyman.  Childs Play is a story that evolves around the entwined fates of two families and, of all things, a repressed homosexual cop.  When a mystery man appears graveside to claim the heritance of a prodigal son, things quickly spin wildly out of control when he and another complete stranger are killed within a week of each other in apparently unrelated incidents.  Complexity is added when an eager representative of a named party in the origingal deceased's will begins to cobble together an alliance in order to overturn the will, which makes any one of the interested parties a suspect in the murders.  Dalziel and Pascoe work together to puzzle the pieces and solve this fine mystery in an ending that is sure to have you curling your toes in anticipation and suspense.  I am giving this book five stars because it is truly well-written and the suspense becomes wonderfully excruciating as the author proceeds to weave a half-dozen seemingly disparate threads together into Gordian knot before cutting it.  My only objections to Mr. Hill's story telling is his penchant for throwing in obscure high culture references that seem oddly out of place and his willingness to place extreme pressure upon his audience's suspension of disbelief.  All in all though, this story will have you panting for more, I am quite sure.	2004-12-12
US	44375481	R1DBNG4UOLXXI8	9995781654	26817603	How to Make Money in Coins	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This contains info/perspective you won't see anywhere else.	It probably says a lot that the author of this book is still in business publishing his newsletter 35 years after this book was published.  This book came out at a very interesting time in coin collecting 'history' that is to say that the mid-1970's was a time of near chaotic market conditions in many investor markets what with the Nixon price controls, the Arab oil embargo, Carter Stagflation, decoupling of gold and the dollar, among other things.  Needless to say, many things have changed since then (for instance the author includes a long discussion of the coin teletype market).  Ironically, though, and a point made and predicted by the author, many things remain the same.  This book is directed at coin people who want to make money in an area that they enjoy and are knowledgeable about.  In fact, one of the basic tenets of this author's regimen is that one must accrue knowledge, knowledge, knowledge.  Knowledge about coin grading, knowledge about coin price history and knowledge about the coin market.  What makes this book stand out from any of the other current books out there today is that the author comes to the business from the standpoint of an Investor first, a coin hound second.  As such he has developed some rule of thumb risk-reward calculations that one can make before making a buy decision.  He also speaks to the psychology of the coin market and explains how and why he has reached his conclusions.  He discusses a method for testing coin price movements and demand and describes the market and calender times when buying and selling are statistically strong.  He also shares some very interesting insights into coin price relationships within and between coin classes.  Finally, he discusses the ways in which buyers and sellers cheat and get cheated and how to avoid the most common pitfalls.  I think that money spent on this book is money well-spent and even if, after considering the proposition, you choose to Not become a coin investor you will still gain some valuable information from this book.  Information that I am confident will help to pay for this book many, many times over.  Four stars only because the internet has allowed some different permutations in the coin market that obviously could not have been discussed by the author.  Having said that, so much of the discussion can be applied to today's discussion that this is a minor objection.some valuable information from this book.  Information that I am confident will help to pay for this book many, many times over.  Four stars only because the internet has allowed some different permutations in the coin market that obviously could not have been discussed by the author.  Having said that, so much of the discussion can be applied to today's discussion that this is a minor objection.	2004-12-12
US	44375481	R3L13Q4UTWYJE7	0394172213	58186272	Anthology of Japanese Literature from the Earliest Era to the Mid-Nineteenth Century	Books	5	30	32	N	N	It's difficult to praise this compilation book enough	I am a hater.  I hate compilation albums, retrospectives, anthologies, and Best of amalgamations.  Yet, I love this book.  I love it not only because of its broad scope and bright choices.  I love it also because the editor, one Donald Keene, has an an unusual and brilliant talent for choosing superb translations for each and every one of the entries in this book.  If you've ever stubbed your mind's toe on poor translations of the Japanese Haiku poem, you will appreciate how delicate a thing it is to translate from the Japanese that ineffable thing which induces awe, where a misplaced gerund would snarf it.<br />This bright and brilliant compote of literary plums (poetry, plays, stories and excerpts) will have you slavering if not palavering for more.  I think you ought to treat yourself to this, I already do!	2004-11-07
US	44375481	R3JMSPROXGDMA0	0393326608	3632665	Men-Of-War Life in Nelson's Navy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Essential companion to Hornblower, Kent, Roberts, et al fans	Wow, I wish this book were in print when I was busy devouring the Hornblower series and the whole panoply of books I read that dealt with the sailing war ships of the 18th and 19th centuries.  This handy little book written by a well-respected author of such nautical fiction lays it all out here for those who want to be able actually 'see' what the ships he has been reading about were really like.  O'Brian does a brilliant job of simply and succinctly describing the conditions and routines of the men who manned these man o' wars.  As an added bonus the full color reproductions of paintings, drawings and diagrams are absolutely SUPER.  If I were you, I would not hesitate to purchase this book.  You will not be sorry, of that I am quite sure.	2004-10-29
US	44375481	R2X2XZ2TR4GBG	078671364X	990786131	I'll Be Your Mirror: The Selected Andy Warhol Interviews	Books	3	11	12	N	N	U'mm, Uh, Oh Gee, I guess, this book is just okay, yeah!	First off, you will buy this book because you are a fan of Warhol and frankly you should buy it because it contains a lot of great stuff.  I was super excited when I opened this book because I get a kick out of the thought that Warhol was often gently mocking (well, taunting certainly) us with his obtuse and oblique responses to his media questioners.  The problem with not actually being able to see Warhol give these interviews is that it is impossible to know how much actually came from his own lips and how much was created to fit the agenda of the person writing or giving the interview.  For instance, whenever Warhol was with one of his co-conspirators he often allowed that person to interject an answer to a question on his behalf.  Also, many of these interviews were actually composed to fit a particular world view.  For instance, Mr. Malanga's interview of Warhol reads like something that Mr. Malanga wrote, probably with Andy's approval, and then submitted for print.  This is okay, but the really great stuff in an Andy Warhol interview is what actually issues from Andy accompanied by all of his funny mannerisms and quirks.  This sometimes does come through in a number of interviews contained in this book, particularly ones given to novices and young men but too often the interviews read flat and almost textbook like.  I don't want to turn you off to this book because I really believe that it is a worthwhile read.  I just don't want you to expect too much so that you won't be disappointed.	2004-10-29
US	44375481	RGN8FML4YQPRY	0933053061	709358669	Chihuly: Form from Fire	Books	5	25	25	N	N	I admit it:  This book has won me over.	This book  was produced in conjunction with a series of Florida exhibitions in 1993.  This book, filled with dozens and dozens of Full Color and full page reproductions in approx. 142 pps., really lays it out for the viewer in a way that, if you were either unfamiliar with or indifferent to Dale Chihuly's work, will make you a convert.  Really.  I fall into the latter category perhaps because, as the world famous art dealer Henry Geldzahler puts it in the foreward of this book \\" Chihuly's work is American in its apparent vulgarity, it brazenness and its fearlessness to move farther out west even if there is no further west to move to.\\"<br /><br />However, when one goes through the varous glass genres that the artist creates, Baskets, Sea Forms, Persians, Venetians, Ikebana, Niijima Floats and Macchia, among others, one begins to appreciate the sheer power and artistry that gets expressed in Chihuly's florid craft.  The publishers might have botched the operation if they had cheaped out on the book's production values, fortunately they did not and this 'Made In USA' book can takes its place among any other of your expensive, high-end coffee table (folio sized) art books.  As the reviewer states below, there isn't a lot of text here, just an introductory paragraph or two from the artist before each themed chapter but really, the art work says more than enough.  I can heartily recommend this book even if you do not collect glass work, and even if you haven't yet cottoned on to Mr. Chihuly's work.	2004-09-29
US	44375481	R3L51AGEAHI22L	4544024013	496642880	Inro and Netsuke: Tokyo National Museum Collection	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Shuda bin furukororu BUT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT ANYWAY!!!	Yes, that is correct.  This darn book should have been done completely in Color Plates but it was not.  In fact, there are only a  couple dozen full color plates which almost makes it worse because the reader gets to see what might have been.  Still if you love Inro, Netsuke & Ojime you MUST OWN THIS BOOK because, believe it or not, it encompasses the Complete Collection of such in the Tokyo National Museum.  Yes, that's correct, the TNM, bowing to complaints from visitors and academics that its public display case is disappointingly unable to show the entire collection, saw fit to catalogue the entire collection of 108 Inro and 565 netsuke for us to have and to hold in one dem fine book.  My book is the hardbound, original publication in which there is not a lot of text in English --also not a lot in the Japanese for that matter--just an introduction and then a complete list of articles including material, approximate date, subject  and whether it is from the 'Goh' Collection.  The book is photographed beautifully, with the Inro photographed front and back where there is a difference between the two, and there is often a miniature photo of the artist's mark dependent, I suppose, upon whether there is one.  The beauty of this collection is that many of these Inro are quite old, made before the objects were commonplace, and also that Mr. Goh was able to obtain many of his objects whole.  That is to say that his Inro come complete with accompanying Netsuke & Ojime.  Thus the original intent of the artist is there for us to see.  This is a really great book, I just wish that it was entirely in Color, thus just four stars for this five star book!	2004-09-20
US	44375481	R2B2LAVOHXMF1A	006097561X	907309066	Forgotten Fatherland: The Search for Elisabeth Nietzsche	Books	4	10	11	N	N	An engrossing read and highly recommended.	I should get one thing taken care of right off the bat:  The author's trip to an Aryan colony in Paraguay is only a pretext for a larger discussion of the rather interesting dynamic between the philosopher Nietzsche, his strong-willed if intellectually mediocre sister, and the rather tumultuous events swirling around fin de siecle Germany.  This has its good points and it bad points.  The bad first:  From the blurbs on the book one expects the author to recount a journey of unremitting horror, fascination and farce as he discovers the depraved Ubermen who still people a failed and fading 19th Century experiment in Aryan race politics gone awry.  This isn't what one finds.  In fact, the colony of Nueva Germania really acts only as an incidental prop or set-up for the real meat of the story:  What happens to Nietzsche the man, the myth and the philosophy under the willing and able hands of his manipulative and single-minded sister.  So, like a reviewer below, I would that the author had spent a bit more on the colony and its people and indeed his adventure and misadventures as he made his way to them and lived amongst them for a month.  I suspect that the author chose not to do this not only because he had a bigger fish to fry, but also because he is a bit lacking in the skills that the best travel writers possess which allow them to really string an audience along over every rut in the road, sore belly and improbable situation.  On the other hand, I believe that the author does an excellent job of describing the political foment that overtook Germany and eventually produced the Holocaust.  Before reading this book, for instance, I had no idea how prolonged and widespread was the phenomenon of active, political anti-semitism and what it meant for the likes of people such as these.  Furthermore, as I have never actually read the works of Nietzsche, but have been bombarded by incessant and inane references to most of his more quotable nostrums, I felt a definite familiarity with, albeit mixed with a strong dose of repugnance toward, his philosophies.  As such, after reading this book, I am definitely open to and perhaps a little eager to read his works and also thanks to the author am forewarned about what to watch out for.  This is to say that, and I don't want to ruin the story for you, it is a supreme irony that it appears that much of what is worst about the uses to which Nietzsche's writing have been put may be attributed to his sister's meddling but also that were it not for her monomaniacal quest to bring her brother and, by association, herself to glory, Nietzsche might have gone down in the annals of history as just another mad philosopher.  A note about the criticism made by a reviewer below about the author's interpretation and defense of Nietzsche's philosophical intent:  I believe that a closer reading of the present text will produce answers to these objections.  Of course, this begs the question of defining that shadow line between reality and insanity in the context of Nietzsche's works, but that is for another time and a different essay.  I think that you will enjoy this book if you fall into the following categories:  You enjoy voyeuristic travel journals/personality characterizations; you are interested in Nietzsche the man; you are interested in Nietsche-Forster the woman; you have an affinity for the cultural history of Paraguay/South America.  I don't recommend this to anyone else.rity with, albeit mixed with a strong dose of repugnance toward, his philosophies.  As such, after reading this book, I am definitely open to and perhaps a little eager to read his works and also thanks to the author am forewarned about what to watch out for.  This is to say that, and I don't want to ruin the story for you, it is a supreme irony that it appears that much of what is worst about the uses to which Nietzsche's writing have been put may be attributed to his sister's meddling but also that were it not for her monomaniacal quest to bring her brother and, by association, herself to glory, Nietzsche might have gone down in the annals of history as just another mad philosopher.  A note about the criticism made by a reviewer below about the author's interpretation and defense of Nietzsche's philosophical intent:  I believe that a closer reading of the present text will produce answers to these objections.  Of course, this begs the question of defining that shadow line between reality and insanity in the context of Nietzsche's works, but that is for another time and a different essay.  I think that you will enjoy this book if you fall into the following categories:  You enjoy voyeuristic travel journals/personality characterizations; you are interested in Nietzsche the man; you are interested in Nietsche-Forster the woman; you have an affinity for the cultural history of Paraguay/South America.  I don't recommend this to anyone else.	2004-08-14
US	44375481	R16F17C4DE085Q	1574323466	721492701	Gaston's Blue Willow: Identification & Value guide, 3rd Edition	Books	5	21	22	N	N	This book gives excellent value for money.	I bought this out of curiousity brought on by the possession of two subtley disparate pieces of Blue Willow ware about which I was curious as I was under the impression that the patterns were all the same.  This book immediately disabused me of this notion which is, in big part, why this is such a great reference:  Because it shows and describes a myriad of different vessels, wares, designs, and manutacturers in FULL COLOR with information that is relevant and helpful to both the novice and the professional.<br /><br />If you thought you knew quite a bit about the Blue Willow pattern, I guarantee that this book will humble you because the author presents such a broad range of items (with a present day price range) from USA, China, the UK and Japan, ranging from plates and saucers to cups and pots to spoons and utensils to platters and chargers to egg stands and vases that only the most serious collector can hope to have seen as much different material as found here.  There is also a helpful section on, believe it or not, reproductions.  I think that you will be quite happy with this book even if, like me, you do not collect the stuff.	2004-07-30
US	44375481	R15JM0T0YWIE9S	3895080802	482473248	Oceanic Art (English, German and French Edition)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Anthropology Meets Art Revue &amp; I Recommend It!	This massive, oversize, extremely weighty and well-made (Made In Italy) book is a very broad survey of so-called Oceanic Art.  This genre may be defined geographically as that area surrounding and surrounded by the Southern Pacific Ocean stretching from Irian Jaya (Indonesian Half of New Guinea), the Northern and Eastern coast of Australia stretching down to New Zealand, as far East as the Easter Islands and up North and West to the Sandwich Islands, and all of the vast number of islands that dot the surface of the ocean in between.<br />This is then, obviously, a huge undertaking and explains the sheer mass of this publication (along with the fact that the book's text is printed in the French, German and English languages).  It also makes it inevitable that some very worthy objects will be left out or overlooked.  I'll get to that but first would like to praise the author for having the foresight to place objects in the context of their cultural use, discuss the native flora and fauna (there is even a section dedicated to the ubiquitous betel nut) that go into the artwork (literally and figuratively), describe and explain the religious or secular significance of certain objects and speculate upon probable ancient migration patterns which peopled the region.  There is much information here that I am certain you will be exposed to for the first time, and there is a surfeit of excellent photographic reproductions of objects and the people who created them.  Because of the large scope of this survey it is likely that you will need to come back to it time and again as you make your way through the various island 'nations'.  You may also wonder if, for the same reason, this book has missed anything.  I think it has.  For instance, I was a little disappointed to see no so-called 'Story Board' carvings from the Palau Islands.  These are, as the name implies, carved pictorial representations of local legends, typically done in a single frame on a hand-carved board as long as four feet, and one foot high.  There is probably a good reason for this omission, but it causes me to wonder if there are not more categories, knife sheaths, for instance, that were also left out.  Still, one must trust the editorial judgment of the author if for no other reason than the overall quality of the book's content is so high that concern over possible ommissions somewhat recede into the background.  At present, this book is available right here on Amazon for a ridiculously low price below the issue price.  I strongly encourage anyone who collects art books to purchase this, as well as anyone who studies or is interested in the islands, people and cultures of the South Pacific, and anyone who collects books with an eye toward re-selling them for a profit as I predict that this book is one that goes into the 'rare' book category within a year or two.four feet, and one foot high.  There is probably a good reason for this omission, but it causes me to wonder if there are not more categories, knife sheaths, for instance, that were also left out.  Still, one must trust the editorial judgment of the author if for no other reason than the overall quality of the book's content is so high that concern over possible ommissions somewhat recede into the background.  At present, this book is available right here on Amazon for a ridiculously low price below the issue price.  I strongly encourage anyone who collects art books to purchase this, as well as anyone who studies or is interested in the islands, people and cultures of the South Pacific, and anyone who collects books with an eye toward re-selling them for a profit as I predict that this book is one that goes into the 'rare' book category within a year or two.	2004-07-06
US	44375481	R2MYZE803JIZX6	0870218433	281554789	The Mayflower and Other Colonial Vessels	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Rough sailing for any but the enthusiast.	Look, I would have bought this book no matter what because it is a topic that fascinates me.  Still, I admit that this book wasn't an easy read, mostly because this is more like a history as written by an engineer, if you can imagine that.  The book is written by a fellow who was primarily responsible for the making of a reproduction of the Mayflower from plans made through his research on what the Mayflower might have been.  Yes, that's right, and who knew it, there is no historical record that definitively describes the technical specifications of this hallowed vessel, nor is there even certainty about the pedigree and fate of the ship?  Thus the need to do extensive research about ships and boats of the time and then to approximate the plans of the ship using the best guess method.  The author takes us through his process for obtaining critical information and also briefly describes the making of the Mayflower II.  It was probably a natural extension of the author's research endeavours to gather information about all of the major types of vessels used by the early colonists and include them in book form and this book is the result.  A great thing about the book is that there is a fair number of very detailed line drawings of representative boats and also blueprint-style drawings of hull designs and sail plans of boats and ships that apparently teemed the coastal waters of Colonial America (and photographs of the Mayflower II under sail and under construction).  This is the right book for model ship builders, wooden boat enthusiasts and naval historians, others should own this book at their own discretion.	2004-05-19
US	44375481	R2G75EPWCG7ROK	067003214X	177308601	Patriots: The Vietnam War Remembered from All Sides	Books	5	19	22	N	Y	It's difficult to praise the book enough!	I'd like to begin this review with a few of the things that may have been left out in the reviews below.  First, although this is a lengthy book, it is constructed in such a way that it could be almost twice as long and the reader would wish for more (in fact the author states that he had to excise plenty of great material in the interests of brevity; I wish that he hadn't).  This is because within the broad chapter overviews he has condensed interviewee statements into spaces sometimes as small as a couple of paragraphs.  In fact, it is amazing how much pith the author is able to include in such abbreviated memoirs.  Second, as is hinted below, Mr. Appy has produced a book with the broadest time spectrum yet of the English language literature that has been produced on the war, that I am aware of.  Third, Mr. Appy has generously included a plethora of book titles within the body of the work and in the bibliography from both participants in his survey and books that he has used for reference.  Many of these books were new to me and I've read or passed on dozens of Vietnam War books in the past two years.  So, if you are on the hunt for new reading material this is a great resource.  Finally, one of the things hinted at but not specifically mentioned in reviews below, the unfolding of events in Vietnam and the way they were canned and served to the American public has some very disturbing parallels to the present Bush Administration's machinations in Iraq (No, I don't believe that Iraq is America's new Vietnam war, rather I suggest that the reader look toward Russia's involvement in Chechnya for a more apt simile).  Apart from this, the book's wide breadth of time and topic, and broad spectrum of views guarantees that, no matter how expert one fancies oneself to be on the Vietnam War, he will inevitably glean new information or insight into this little bit of Indochinese nastiness that was the Vietnam War (the American War in Vietnam).  I go so far as to make two additional predictions.  One is that those of you who either have children or are above the age of 35 will find yourselves with tears welling up in your eyes at least once in the course of the book.  The other is that you will find yourself reading some of the narratives here in this book in a state of either amazement or shocked outrage, perhaps both.  Finally, a quick overview of how this book is set up:  The book is arranged under 5 broad topics:  Beginnings, Escalations, Endings, etc.  Within these broad categories are smaller ones with headings such as War Heroes, Triage, Families At War, etc., and within these are the narrative accounts from various participants from all sides and from numerous different angles.  Often, the author has embellished these micro-accounts with a kind of preface and aftercommentary treatment, and while the going is at times quite heavy, at no point does this book cause one to wish to walk away from it.  What otherwise might have taken me a couple of days to read was a three or four day journey just because there was so much emotional debt to pay for all of the information contained in this book.  This trenchant read is a really, truly magnificent work that demands your attention, commands your respect, expands your mind and yes, wins your heart.tional predictions.  One is that those of you who either have children or are above the age of 35 will find yourselves with tears welling up in your eyes at least once in the course of the book.  The other is that you will find yourself reading some of the narratives here in this book in a state of either amazement or shocked outrage, perhaps both.  Finally, a quick overview of how this book is set up:  The book is arranged under 5 broad topics:  Beginnings, Escalations, Endings, etc.  Within these broad categories are smaller ones with headings such as War Heroes, Triage, Families At War, etc., and within these are the narrative accounts from various participants from all sides and from numerous different angles.  Often, the author has embellished these micro-accounts with a kind of preface and aftercommentary treatment, and while the going is at times quite heavy, at no point does this book cause one to wish to walk away from it.  What otherwise might have taken me a couple of days to read was a three or four day journey just because there was so much emotional debt to pay for all of the information contained in this book.  This trenchant read is a really, truly magnificent work that demands your attention, commands your respect, expands your mind and yes, wins your heart.	2004-05-09
US	44375481	RIVS0M0K6ROXG	0394423909	897249106	Contrarian Investment Strategy: The Psychology of Stock-Market Success	Books	4	10	12	N	N	4 Stars because author has an update: A Vital Read Still!	I admit to opening this book with a degree of scepticism because of its early publication date (1979).  Most of the older investment books that I have read just do not stand the test of time.  I am shocked and pleased to report that this one is different:  It remains a timely, interesting if not particularly lively read!  The really great thing about this book is that it covers a broad panoply of issues that saves one from having to buy other books such as, to paraphrase, 'The Madness of Crowds and the Delusions of....', or 'Against All Odds,' (a book about the nature of odds).  I would say 'A Random Walk Down Wallstreet' too, but I believe that this latter book is so important that one really must read it.  The author does one thing that no other book on investing that I have read has done which is to discuss the effect of mass psychology or 'groupthink' upon the decisions of market analysts, financial advisors, and investors.  Further the author convincingly demonstrates the why and how that fundamental and technical analyses fail to outperform the market, or even to anticipate market moves.  What makes this book an especially timely read to me (circa 2004) is that I believe that the conditions of the 1970's that the author comments upon have crucial similarities to the ones that we may soon be facing (wartime economy, inflationary pressures, statgnant job/wage growth, national self-doubt).  Obviously no two economic eras will be identical, but I believe that the author's incredibly insightful commentary at that time supplies we the present day audience with an awful lot of really good ideas and methods for building a successful approach to the new economics.  As to the author's system of 'Contrarian Investment Strategy,' I would put it to you that the ideas contained are not half bad.  In fact, I use a somewhat modified approach myself which, I am happy to say, seems to have stood me in good stead to date.  I would recommend this book to you and, without having read it yet, the author's undoubtedly good 1998 update; although, ironically, I suspect that this older version is going to be more relevant to the next decade than the updated version is.  We'll see.ead it yet, the author's undoubtedly good 1998 update; although, ironically, I suspect that this older version is going to be more relevant to the next decade than the updated version is.  We'll see.	2004-05-02
US	44375481	R35YMK01TXIN95	0930462572	560569114	Mercenary's Guide to the Rare Coin Market	Books	3	12	12	N	N	This book actually rates a weak four stars, here's why:	This is one of my favorite coin books on a number of different levels.  First off because it is first hand knowledge and opinion from a coin expert with years of experience.  The author makes no bones about the fact that his intention is to write a book that gives his audience the information it needs to go out and cherry pick coins that will greatly appreciate in value in a short period of time.  He doesn't spend much time trying to teach one how to grade coins or spot ringers; that this infomation is already possessed by his reader is assumed.  What he does instead is give cautionary advice on how to go about getting the best coins for the best prices available at the time without being cheated along the way.  He also, and this is what makes me love this book, compiles lists of all the major type coins and series that he believes should be collected with an eye to profit and then breaks down the rarities and desirables within each niche and warns the reader off those he believes won't make good 'investments.'  What gives his observations weight is that he is drawing on something like twenty years of his coin buying and selling experience and so can state with authority that he sees a certain coin once a year or once a month, etc.  Equally as interesting to me is that he gives lists of then current prices (circa 1982), of course with the admonishment that the listed prices are only indicative of relative values and can change up or down with alacrity and for no apparent reason.  Still, he uses past and then current pricing to demonstrate what a great investment coins have been and to bolster his view that there is a coming explosion in the price of gold.  Why is this interesting?  Why because the prices are, for the most part, so much higher than coin prices today (circa 2004), or at least little lower.  Not everything, obviously, for in an ironic twist the ultrararities which he steers the reader away from are today, unbelievably more expensive today than they were then.  This is not to disparage the author's views for, as he is quick to point out, nobody can foretell the future and he is only going on what he had seen to the point of his putting pen to paper.  There is some really weird political stuff in the book that veers toward the fringe but fits with the author's expectations of the national economy and the price of gold and coins but the reader can skim over or ignore that stuff.  Really, what this book is good for is to sober one up when he begins to delude himself into thinking that he's going to make millions in just a few short years after spending only thousands.  It also gives him an excellent referential database upon which to base his coin buying decisions and finally, gives one an excellent perspective upon vagaries, fads and fetishes within the world of coin trading and investing.  I think that anyone would do well buying this book, especially because there are presently many copies for very little money here on amazon.e then.  This is not to disparage the author's views for, as he is quick to point out, nobody can foretell the future and he is only going on what he had seen to the point of his putting pen to paper.  There is some really weird political stuff in the book that veers toward the fringe but fits with the author's expectations of the national economy and the price of gold and coins but the reader can skim over or ignore that stuff.  Really, what this book is good for is to sober one up when he begins to delude himself into thinking that he's going to make millions in just a few short years after spending only thousands.  It also gives him an excellent referential database upon which to base his coin buying decisions and finally, gives one an excellent perspective upon vagaries, fads and fetishes within the world of coin trading and investing.  I think that anyone would do well buying this book, especially because there are presently many copies for very little money here on amazon.	2004-04-26
US	44375481	R1DBCJKE1VVMKP	0375720502	682907855	The Official Guide to Coin Grading and Counterfeit Detection, 2nd Edition	Books	5	44	45	N	N	4.7 Stars for this must have book.	Please note:  This book was released only last month so I'm not sure how relevant the reviews below are.  I bought this at ANA's unveiling and must say that I believe that if you are going to buy one and only one book on US coins, this is the one that you must buy.  It is great because it is chockablock full of utterly usable and vital information on all of the things that you are interested in when it comes to grading coins and indeed in determining whether you are dealing with true coin of the realm or a counterfeit.  What makes this particular edition particularly cogent is its section on the State Quarters with photos to help with grading states MS-60 and above.  This book also has an excellent section on Commemoratives which is a big help.  Not all of the photographic plates are in color which is a shame because the black and whites are of absolutely no use when used to demonstrate the difference between an MS-67, and MS-66 and an MS-65: the photos are just not intense enough for one to really be able to see the flaws the editors are attempting to point out.  There are color pictures which are a great help in making this comparison but they are reserved, predictably, for high end gold coins.  My major beef with this and indeed all coin books to date is that the lowly, unloved Jefferson Nickel gets short shrift.  Yep, barely two pages of commentary and no really great photographic grading aids.  This is an especially jarring ommission in light of the newly released so-called Peace Nickel which, ironically, was launched at the same time as this book.  Anyway, but for the grainy black and whites and the unforgivable nickel ommission, this book rates Five Stars.  Buy it in any event.	2004-04-13
US	44375481	RJWG8IGMCCEI2	1579590195	169425078	Kilims: Decorating With Tribal Rugs	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Great, High Quality Pix &amp; Production Make Informative Book	The high quality of the photographic reproductions and the high book publication production values make this book.  If you've ever begun to look at so-called Persian carpets, you've no doubt been bewildered by the huge variation in price and quality in these things: Hand woven, powerloomed, hand tufted, machine made, vegetable dyes, artificial dyes, cotton, silk, wool, gabbeh, kilim, rug, Indian, Pakistani, Kurdish, Iranian -not to mention the various tribal and trade names for these things.  In other words there is just a head-spinning, mind numbing variety of &quot;Persian&quot; carpets available today and it is super easy to pay too much for inferior quality rugs without knowing a bit about them.  Thus, this book is a great first step toward finding some excellent floor covering for your home (and, as evinced by this author, for your pillows, furniture, walls and windows).  The book is done in roughly two parts.  The first half of the book is a discussion of the history of the rug, with a description of how rugs are made and what goes into them.  This discussion is accompanied by a large number of excellent color reproductions to inform the reader.  The last part of the book is given over to decorating tips also with many photographic examples, and while this part held little interest for me because I'm not into such things, I suspect a few of the author's many great ideas will be employed by a large percentage of those who read this book.  Don't expect a discussion of values, costs, etc.  Also, do not expect a reference guide to symbology or a guide to specific tribal motifs, etc.  Look for that kind of info instead in more formal studies or books about collectible carpets.  Having said this, the author does thoughtfully include a list of carpet retailers at the back of her book, a couple of whom I recognized as well-respected carpet merchants with international reputations.  Presently there is a fair number of this book available from Amazon sellers for less than the original publication price and as such I believe this presents an excellent value; kind of like paying for the author's output and getting the great pictures and high quality paper, binding and printing of the book for free.  I highly recommend this book to the beginning rug buyer, or perhaps a decorator who wants a great coffee table book for an excellent price.an the original publication price and as such I believe this presents an excellent value; kind of like paying for the author's output and getting the great pictures and high quality paper, binding and printing of the book for free.  I highly recommend this book to the beginning rug buyer, or perhaps a decorator who wants a great coffee table book for an excellent price.	2004-03-21
US	44375481	RE0IV74ZLONYH	1586481606	701797562	The Cat from Hue: A Vietnam War Story	Books	2	5	19	N	N	Great Title! Great Cover!! Great Bore!!!	Mr. Laurence certainly has a lot to say, as evinced by this hefty tome's volume.  Unfortunately for the hapless reader this lot is not well put.  Thas is to say that Mr. Laurence, while perhaps an exemplary television newsman and radio reporter, is not a particularly gifted writer.  Part of the problem may be the difficulty of reconstructing daily events in minute detail thirty years after the fact.  Having said that, it would seem that a great raconteur would have used the intervening thirty years between event and authorship to hone the tales he wishes to tell into finely crafted, razor-edge vignettes that would bring the experience and the characters alive for the author.  Sad to say, Mr. Laurence failed to do this.  So, I suspect that you, like I, will eagerly delve into this book, then plod through, then get bogged down in a swamp of wispy, vapid detail until finally tossing the book aside with a sigh heavy with unmet expectations and dashed high hopes.  At the end of it all, one must say to oneself, &quot;So, there is some stuff from the Vietnam war that simply is not worth recounting, and I have found it.&quot;  One of the promotional blurbs touting this book makes the comparison between this and Herr's book.  I believe that this is a pretty good comparison as neither is particulary well done; although, as between the two, I'd choose Dispatches.  I would recommend to you instead a two volume set (or the one volume compilation republishing) titled 'Reporting Vietnam' which is absolutely, jaw droppingly fine Vietnam War reportage which must not be missed.  Good Luck.	2004-03-06
US	44375481	R3K9CQDS50QNM8	0876372116	670217883	Major variety-oddity guide of United States coins, listing all U.S. coins from half cents through gold coins, fully illustrated, with values	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	4.8 stars for this Great Resource: 5 stars for 8th ed.	I stumbled upon this book by chance and couldn't believe my luck.  The reason I say this is that, while I find the world of error coins a fascinating one, it is rather tedious work poring over a coin if one has many of the same date and mint to look at but an unclear idea of what to look for.  Now, with the aid of this book I had a resource that pointed me in the direction of 'known' varieties and oddities for my particular year and mint.  In addition, it gave me ideas for things to look at even when there was no known variety/oddity listed.  This edition has over 3900 listings and is illustrated (photos) with many examples of specific anomalies and it has gauge, weight and mintage specs, as well.  While some of the things listed here probably amount to nitpicking, I'm glad for the chance to examine these nits.  I now find that I see things on coins that I never would have noticed if I had not found this book.  I've since upgraded to the 8th ed. which is a little better but no less difficult to find.  Really, the only difference  between them is that there is three more years data in the 8th ed., and the additional data seems less complete than that found in the earlier edition.  Thus, it won't make any difference to you if you don't collect modern varieties and you aren't missing much if you don't find the later version.  Plus, the 7th is a bit larger in physcial dimensions which makes it handier to use.  Who can't love a book that lists a 'crocodile on roof' or 'bandaid on nose' oddity?  If this book does nothing else it will get you thinking about the coins you examine in a more critical manner.	2004-01-06
US	44375481	R37G393C71SWVN	0307090973	322390717	The Official American Numismatic Association Grading Standards for United  States Coins	Books	3	13	22	N	Y	It's official so you must have it, obviously, but for what?	This book contains the official grading standards of the ANA so obviously it is a must own for people who wish to grade within the standards of the ANA.  I mean, that is why I purchased the thing but you know what?, I found that I didn't really need it...at least not this edition of it.  This is because the ANA is the, ahem, gold standard when it comes to grading coins so practically any current book that you buy concerning the grading of coins will use this information as the baseline.  Thus, you can buy books on the hobby that may focus on a topic more exciting to one and which are interesting reads as well, but which nevertheless will refer to the standards elucidated here as the starting point of any discussion of coin grade.  What I am saying is that the information contained here is critical to establishing a coin grade so you probably already know what you need to know about these standards from other coins books you have read which purport to help you to establish grade bcause they use this book as a jumping off point.  So, use this book as a reference manual, especially if you want to become a professional grader and all the while hope that the ANA comes out with an easier to read and more useful edition soon.  Either that or read the other books out there by well-respected coin experts who use these standards and help you &quot;how to use&quot; the standards laid down in this book.  The reason that I'd rely upon experts who write books on the hobby for such guidance is that they understand what makes one coin more desirable than another even though each ostensibly meet the objective standards contained in this book, and they tell you how they know and try to instruct you how to do the same.  The best way that I can demonstrate what I am talking about is that I bought a coin on ebay that was slabbed by NGC to be a 1938 D/S buffalo nickel.  I returned the coin to seller because the '8' in '1938' had been sheared off at the mint.  Yet, this coin was in MS-65 condition according to the standards laid down in this book.  Get my point?condition according to the standards laid down in this book.  Get my point?	2004-01-02
US	44375481	R3BFQIIBDG9G0I	0811717003	989898433	Street Without Joy (Stackpole Military History Series)	Books	3	20	46	N	N	Interesting in retrospect, of course but not a lively read!	I can't shower this book with effusive praise as reviewers below have done because I don't believe that this is a particularly captivating read.  Yes, Mr. Fall was prescient in the sense that he saw the ultimate futility of a colonial-style war waged against an indigenous population and yes Mr. Fall correctly predicted that USA would be as unsuccessful cowing the Vietminh as the French had been BUT....and this is a huge butt:  He did so only by taking a huge stab in the dark; multiple stabs actually as he had a number of different and differing reasons for the inevitability of a French/USA defeat in that theatre.  Among them were: inadequate resources thrown into the fight, non-traditional war theatre, a unifying ideology, a near-by haven state(s), a lack of will by the West to pursue a larger war (i.e. to fight Red China and the USSR if necessary).  In other words, all of the stuff that all of the rest of us trot out as plausible reasons for the implausible defeat of the world's most powerful nation by a bunch of pajama-wearing, rice farmers.  No searing insight here, then.  In fact, Mr. Fall tellingly fails to even address the most obvious linked questions, or even to pose them:  What is it about the Vietminh political ideology causes it to prevail?  What is it about opposing Vietnamese government politics' causes them to fail?  Also, Mr. Fall predicates his argument about the safe-haven as victory facilitater upon a model in Algeria-Tunisia that fails the smell test.  Are we really to believe that France lost Algeria because Tunisia allowed some revolutionaries to shelter there?  Is this good history?  I can't speak to the veracity of this line of argument but I must say that reading it in Mr. Fall's book was the first that I'd heard of such a thing.  To bolster his 'gotta get tough' argument he cites Israel's response to the Fedeyeen (yup, the Fedeyeen) in 1956 as a successful use of realpolitik muscle to permanently kill a problem.  Meanwhile, forty years later Israel is still fighting the same battle only with different players who, ironically, share the same ideology, and as in Vietnam, Israel wouldn't even be able to do so if the USA weren't annually pumping billions and billions of dollars into the economy to ensure that state's viability.  All of this aside, I could live with Mr. Fall's premises if only he were a gifted story teller.  While the chap does an adequate job of turning French military battle reports into understandable accounts for the lay reader, he does it without the spark of life that causes historical events to come alive for the reader.  Furthermore, it is difficult to parse just what it is that Mr. Fall is attempting in this book.  For, this is not a comprehensive history of the conflict; neither is it a warfare manual such as might be studied in a War College; it is not a reminiscence, nor is it a journal; 'tis not a polemic nor a paean.  Actually, I can't characterize it as anything but moderately interesting footnote commentary about the nastiness that occurred in Vietnam in the late 1950's and which promised to become nastier for the Americans in the 1960's.  I really can't recommend this to anyone but the most dyed in the wool Vietnam War voyeurs, such as myself.  To others, suffice it to say that this book is about the stuff that happened to the Americans in the Vietnam war only it happened earlier to the French instead.Israel is still fighting the same battle only with different players who, ironically, share the same ideology, and as in Vietnam, Israel wouldn't even be able to do so if the USA weren't annually pumping billions and billions of dollars into the economy to ensure that state's viability.  All of this aside, I could live with Mr. Fall's premises if only he were a gifted story teller.  While the chap does an adequate job of turning French military battle reports into understandable accounts for the lay reader, he does it without the spark of life that causes historical events to come alive for the reader.  Furthermore, it is difficult to parse just what it is that Mr. Fall is attempting in this book.  For, this is not a comprehensive history of the conflict; neither is it a warfare manual such as might be studied in a War College; it is not a reminiscence, nor is it a journal; 'tis not a polemic nor a paean.  Actually, I can't characterize it as anything but moderately interesting footnote commentary about the nastiness that occurred in Vietnam in the late 1950's and which promised to become nastier for the Americans in the 1960's.  I really can't recommend this to anyone but the most dyed in the wool Vietnam War voyeurs, such as myself.  To others, suffice it to say that this book is about the stuff that happened to the Americans in the Vietnam war only it happened earlier to the French instead.	2004-01-01
US	44375481	R3S5S15P4NPLWZ	3791318608	7258433	Hiroshige: Prints and Drawings (African, Asian & Oceanic Art)	Books	5	65	65	N	N	Superlative Art Book about Superlative Artist.	Quick, stop reading this review and buy this Hardcover book in New or Like New condition now, while you can.  For, this is one of the greastest modern so-called 'coffee table' art books that I have come across.  Too often these days one finds that such art books which should be large, lushly produced, lovingly put together and brilliantly written are unfortunately done with punk production values resulting in poor reproductions on cheap looking paper stock and accompanied by unedifying, often stultifying essays.  Not this one.  As I said above it is one of the most impressive art books that I have come across in twenty years of buying them.  It is printed and bound in Germany which in itself is commendable and noteworthy because it is quite expensive to produce a book there.  I am so glad they did because, as good as they are, Italy and Hong Kong, two places commonly used for producing today's art books, just don't do as good a job as Prestel has done in Germany.  This book was originally produced to accompany an exhibition at the Royal Academy of the Arts during 1997.  As such, it commanded a skilled and erudite staff of authors to craft both an accurate history and an illuminating commentary of the artist and his art.  They are: Matthi Forrer, author of a similar book on Hokusai; Suzuki Juzo, the author of the standard monograph on Hiroshige; and Henry Smith a Professor of Japanese History at Columbia U.  You will come back to this book many times over the years because there is so darned much information to absorb, visually and intellectually and because the publisher's top notch production values have accurately captured the spirit and beauty of Hiroshige's Woodblock Prints.  This is the sort of book that will be actively sought out by art book collectors in years to come.  This is why I say, buy it now, while you can at such a low price.  You won't be sorry.	2003-11-17
US	44375481	R3D7FQ6VJDM83O	1576870901	421517055	Andy Warhol: The Factory Years, 1964-1967	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Worth buying but only just: color photos a big plus!	It is not a little ironic that the photographic record of an artist as prolific and as wrapped up in making and taking film and photographs as Andy Warhol was suffers from a dearth of great photos of the scene of Andy Warhol, The Factory and his Superstars:  For real.  I mean, I would love to own a book that is just chockablock full of all of the characters, primary, secondary, tertiary and beyond who populate the pages of the many books about Andy Warhol and the Warhol Experience.  Unfortunately, there just doesn't seem to be any out there.  Most of the books by and about the actors in the Warhol drama are text-based with a few, often the same few, grainy, shadowy, poorly framed black &amp; whites.  This book is an attempt by one to bring together more and better photos that fans such as I desire.  It is a fair effort but only just.  The book is over-size or 'folio' form which is GREAT, and mostly photographs.  The text is composed of an opening statement of a couple of pages of over-sized type by the author followed by lots of photographs.  The essays contain some valuable information that have the ring of truth to them, but they also seem spontaneous, off-the-cuff and free associative and as a result are not easy to follow.  They are more blurted out than intoned, if you get me.  The book is printed in the UK on non-glossy heavy stock.  I'm unsure if this was done to save money or to impart a flat, gritty, industrial feel to the photos.  It is a different look than anything else out there about Warhol and I can live with it; although, I catch myself wondering what this book would look like if done on really expensive, glossy paper with top notch production values.  The author explains at one point that his photos were criticized by media critics for being odd and unconventional.  He states that today this is recognized as a somewhat ground-breaking and very original and excellent representation of the scene.  I think that they are a bit odd and unconventional.  There are some great shots there though, and the author gets some portraits of Edie Sedgewick that are heart-breakingly prescient in retrospect.  There are a couple great shots of Nico too and, of course, Andy.  I was pleased to see some good ones of Taylor Mead and Paul Morissey which is a refreshing change; although, I must say that it would have been cool to see how the author would have represented Andy's mother, Billy Name, and Andrea Feldman.  Oh, well, I suppose one must be happy with what one can get.  I believe that if you are a huge Warhol admirer such as I you would be mad to not own this.  If you are curious but indifferent to Warhol and the scene, right now as I speak you can buy this book right here on Amazon for a fraction of what it is worth and you should buy it NOW.  If you don't care for Andy Warhol or care about him this book will certainly not change your mind so don't bother.here are some great shots there though, and the author gets some portraits of Edie Sedgewick that are heart-breakingly prescient in retrospect.  There are a couple great shots of Nico too and, of course, Andy.  I was pleased to see some good ones of Taylor Mead and Paul Morissey which is a refreshing change; although, I must say that it would have been cool to see how the author would have represented Andy's mother, Billy Name, and Andrea Feldman.  Oh, well, I suppose one must be happy with what one can get.  I believe that if you are a huge Warhol admirer such as I you would be mad to not own this.  If you are curious but indifferent to Warhol and the scene, right now as I speak you can buy this book right here on Amazon for a fraction of what it is worth and you should buy it NOW.  If you don't care for Andy Warhol or care about him this book will certainly not change your mind so don't bother.	2003-11-16
US	44375481	R2AVU179PMIFNB	0312980442	435166304	On Point: A Rifleman's Year in the Boonies, 1967-1968	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Hooray for the Electric Strawberries!!!	There are darned few gems out there (A rumor of War, Caputo; In Pharoah's Army, Wolff; Survivors, Grant; Bloods, Terry; Reporting Vietnam, various) amidst the rubbish (Steel My Soldiers' Hearts, who cares; Charlie Company, various, Very Crazy, G.I., various) littering the landscape of the Vietnam War bookworld.  Not to mention all of the so-so books in between.  This is an odd little book because its writing style is so matter of fact and essay-like.  The author recounts his Vietnam experience from beginning to end and runs through these events as if he were writing a manual.  I guess that in a sense he really is.  The really great thing about this is that he includes details of daily wear, routine, equipment and its everyday use that is often left out in books about Vietnam.  A reader will learn a lot in the course of this book, not just about equipment either, for the author seems to be a naturally thoughtful person who has the gift of objective observation.  Despite the low-key and somewhat self-effacing manner, this author, unlike most of the viet vet so-called grunts I have known, continued his field friendships when he got 'back to the world.'  I think this says a lot about the sort of guy Hayes is.  Years from now I think that people will realize that Vietnam, even though we lost it, was probably the 2d most important war we've fought (revolution being the first, obviously; civil not being a foreign war but a police action, ha, ha) because it was, quite simply, a thinking man's war.  I mean this to include everything, the atrocities, violence, criminality, civilian murder, as well as the tactics, technology, psychology and strategy.  Hayes did well in this environment because, I believe, the fellow has a good head on his shoulders.  Shame on us for not having leadership with the same qualities.  Never mind, read this book and see why the American soldier is known and admired best not for his brute strength and bravery but for his resourcefulness and can-do attitude.  This is trite but if Hayes' account is at least 90 percent true, his conduct in the war can make us all really proud that he is an American.titude.  This is trite but if Hayes' account is at least 90 percent true, his conduct in the war can make us all really proud that he is an American.	2003-09-25
US	44375481	R551U204DS84N	0306805618	200361671	Survivors: Vietnam P.o.w.s Tell Their Stories	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Stupendous, Profound, Brilliant, Disturbing, Beautiful	This is one of the greatest books that I have read on the Vietnam War subject, and I have read many; its limited scope notwithstanding.  Ostensibly, this book is the graphic of the experiences of a discrete number of men kept captive by the VC/NVA command.  However, due to the complex subtleties of the book's structure, it becomes a bit more than this, especially because it encompasses a wider array of U.S. prisoners, and also Europeans, and South Vietnamese soldiers and mercenaries.  The author has chosen to extract excerpts of interviews that he must have given to those men who volunteered to speak with him.  The largest part of the book is given over to a group held in high mountain jungle camps in South Vietnam, and then of their march North to Hanoi and finally of theirs and others experiences in the so-called Hanoi Hilton.  We are privileged to experience the lives of these men through their own eyes.  We witness brutality, humiliation, bravery, cowardice, fear, humour, death, disease, insanity, depravity and, yes, love and friendship; both internecine and between the prisoners and their 'enemies.'  The Vietnam War was, for the United States, a complex situation to say the least.  The POW experience there does a wonderful job of conveying the complexities and difficulties this war posed for our society.  Suffice it to say that one is left with a sense of awe for the strength and forbearance of these 'survivors' (but for one of the men, Theodore Guy, whose understandably disturbing and distorted views are explored a bit later in the book).  One of the most beautiful aspects of this book is the testimonials that various POW's give to explain and ameliorate the weaknesses and 'failings' of their fellow prisoners.  I was also struck by the underlying humility with which the prisoners spoke of their own experiences, some of which involved personal valor and heroism that all but one of the prisoners left unsaid, only to have their secrets unveiled by a different prisoner.  I say that there is one stand out voice here that is filled with anger, hatred and braggadocio and that voice is Mr. Guy's.  It stands in stark contrast to the testimony of the other prisoners, and one can't help but think that the author intentionally included this point of view.  Guy was the senior officer in the so-called Hanoi Hilton for much of the time he was imprisoned and was unrepentantly gung ho during his tenure there.  He set up lines of communication between the prisoners in order to help give strength to his fellow Americans and to enforce his policies of resistance to the enemy and to maintain this united front.  He is embittered by the fact that a small contingent of the Americans there, members of the so-called Peace Committee, were cooperating with the enemy by making tapes and writing letters that condemned the American participation in the war.  He even went so far as to attempt to stir up a firestorm after he returned home by going to the press with allegations of treason against some of these now-returned prisoners.  Oh, and he also gets a few kicks in against his wife's activities while he was held prisoner.  What makes this unadulterated venom such a bad reflection upon Guy's character is that, while he despises these men for their weaknesses, he admits himself that he was guilty of doing very similar things, but of course he only does them after he has reached the end of his mental and physical limits.  It is an unfortunate truth that self-centered people are simply incapable of comprehending that different people are well, different.  To wit, every man has his breaking point, his was simply different than those he condemns.  Furthermore, he alone, in the telling of his initial capture incident tells of gung ho die hard heroic battle in the face of overwhelming odds.  It strikes one as darned odd that nobody else, even men who describe fighting to the end, try to make themselves look like heroes.  Anyway, you as the reader will be the judge of whether Guy's contrapuntal account strikes you as being somehow self-serving and inappropriate.  Oh, there are two other accounts in the book that are equally disturbing.  The first is of an American fellow who went over to the Vietcong.  One wonders what that guy was thinking, tellingly, the prisoners who knew him best offer very interesting insights into his motivations and character without being accusatory.  There is another account from one of the fellows that Guy hated most, John Young who was the 'chief' collaborator in the 'Hanoi Hilton.'  He activities seem to have been disliked by every one, even those who were sympathetic to the so-called Peace Committee.  I suppose that it goes to show that there just may be one in every crowd, and also that it is precisely for this that we should avoid placing our fellow countrymen into situations that can expose these fatal character flaws if at all possible.  Our nation lost a lot of currency in waging war in Southeast Asia, let us hope that we are not on the brink of doing the same now in the Middle East.e judge of whether Guy's contrapuntal account strikes you as being somehow self-serving and inappropriate.  Oh, there are two other accounts in the book that are equally disturbing.  The first is of an American fellow who went over to the Vietcong.  One wonders what that guy was thinking, tellingly, the prisoners who knew him best offer very interesting insights into his motivations and character without being accusatory.  There is another account from one of the fellows that Guy hated most, John Young who was the 'chief' collaborator in the 'Hanoi Hilton.'  He activities seem to have been disliked by every one, even those who were sympathetic to the so-called Peace Committee.  I suppose that it goes to show that there just may be one in every crowd, and also that it is precisely for this that we should avoid placing our fellow countrymen into situations that can expose these fatal character flaws if at all possible.  Our nation lost a lot of currency in waging war in Southeast Asia, let us hope that we are not on the brink of doing the same now in the Middle East.	2003-07-20
US	44375481	R3N3R8X8IQW3ZA	0345314964	685349929	Charlie Company: What Vietnam Did to Us	Books	1	7	13	N	N	Great Concept Poorly Executed.	I had such high hopes for this book.  The concept was a fine one: Follow the exploits of the members of a single company that served in the Vietnam war.  Apparently, this project was initiated by the Newsweek magazine and the result of that first effort was a series of awards for excellent reportage.  The authors attempted to expand the project for publication in book form.  Unfortunately, the scope of the project is so large and unwieldly that the result is a major disappointment.  The reason for this is that so many different people were required to compile the information of such a large number of people that the text has the feel of a third hand account written from a translation.  In other words, it reads like a committee report. Thus, it is difficult to form any strong opinions or acheive insight because there is no internal logic which governs the book.  Plus, many of the soldiers' stories seem to have been concoctions of incidents taken from a dozen different events.  Much of the personal information about the soldiers seems, well, impersonal.  If you would like to experience a successful execution of the concept, read the book 'Survivors' by Zalin Grant.  In it he covers the POW lives of a dozen U.S. prisoners and he does it brilliantly.  You will put that book down feeling that you have read something very original and very meaningful.	2003-07-20
US	44375481	R2DGB3J3CM908F	9998184096	339363427	The Mutiny on Board H.M.S. Bounty	Books	4	5	7	N	N	From the Horse's Mouth makes this a Must Buy!	You are going to buy this book, of course you are.  How can you not, for it is the actual book written by the notorious Capt. Bligh himself.  If you are the least bit interested in the voyage that became the Mutiny on the Bounty and its aftermath, you've got to get to it.  This book is fascinating not so much because of the description of the mutiny because Captain Bligh surprisingly has very little to say on the subject.  No, you'll find this fascinating stuff because it allows one a glimpse into life in the South Pacific hundreds of years ago, and how miserable a castaway crew can become.  You will also be able to form your own opnions about the sort of man Captain Bligh was. It is an interesting and challenging task to do so, however, because the man is careful to conceal most of his personality and emotions behind a rather dry and unimaginative journeyman's description of this adventure.  Actually, it is this mechanical and rather bloodless recitation of facts surrounding what was a most terrifying and terrific adventure that clues one in that Captain Bligh, despite being an extraordinary seaman was certainly obtuse and even a bit of a creep (pompous ass, at the very least);  at least he made my skin crawl at times.  He also caused me to marvel at his many skills and tenacity (orneriness?), and even he was unable to completely suppress his emotions and allow himself free rein to personalize a few of the incidents that occured along the way.  Few people could have accomplished his feat, that is to sail more than one thousand miles across the ocean in a small wooden boat filled with a hopeless and starving crew always teetering on the brink of disaster.  It's also funny that Bligh turned up in all sorts of places around the globe in his life time and one finds him sprinkled throughout history.  Did you know, for instance, that he commanded a ship under Lord Nelson in at least one of that man's most famous battles?  He also accompanied the famed Captain Cook on one of his famous voyages which is how he got the job on the Bounty.  I've ranked this only four stars because the book is really not a joy to read, Captain Bligh's skills most certainly lay in the nautical world.  In this day and age, he probably would have found a ghost writer to lively up his self.  Yet, this book is essential grist for the mill of Bounty hunters.of his famous voyages which is how he got the job on the Bounty.  I've ranked this only four stars because the book is really not a joy to read, Captain Bligh's skills most certainly lay in the nautical world.  In this day and age, he probably would have found a ghost writer to lively up his self.  Yet, this book is essential grist for the mill of Bounty hunters.	2003-07-14
US	44375481	R3SXY5CSZV5T8K	0609808559	50524520	The Official Price Guide to Mint Errors, 6th Edition	Books	4	5	5	N	N	4 Stars but only because of its explication of rating system	The review below lodges some valid and important complaints.  To wit, this book really is not a price guide as such as the 'guidance' is so broad as to be meaningless.  Also, it is quite difficult to look up specific varieties such as the one you may be holding in your grimy little paw, and it doesn't give enough up to date information on the populations of various errors.  Having said that, it is one of those I believe any nonprofessional coin collector ... coin scout should have for the following reasons:  Alan Herbert, the author does give examples of the broad panoply of mint errors that are out there, with description, level of rarity and, usually, a photgraph for visual reference.  More importantly, the book  includes a complete description of the rating system and all of the nomenclature surrounding the rating and identifying of various errors.  This information alone makes this book worthy of purchase.  There is other information here too, such as a simple, lucid and photographically enhanced description of the entire minting process that will definitely help you to get your head around the world of error coins.  To be sure, this book is deeply flawed and on that basis should probably draw only three stars, but I've looked and there just isn't that much literature on error coins out there for the casual coin collector.  So, if you want to fill out your knowledge of error coins but aren't a hardcore error hound, go ahead and get this book.  You won't be sorry, I'm sure (possibly a little disappointed though).	2003-07-12
US	44375481	R5FO6WEL88NL4	1566250617	229430	The Coin Collector's Survival Manual: An Indispensable Guide for Collectors and Investors	Books	3	25	27	N	Y	Don't expect too much from this helpful, easy read!	I've decided to add my, ahem, two cents worth, on this book because I have just finished reading another book by the same author titled 'How to make money in coins right now.'  I resisted buying the latter because I suspected, rightfully as it turns out, that there would not be much new information contained in it; Mr. Travers has a tendency to rehash a lot of his admittedly valuable and well-reasoned information advice.  This book covers a lot of ground, per the reviews below, much of it essential.  The single most valuable section, to my mind, is the in-depth discussion of coin grades as used by the professionals, and a discussion of recent changes made in grading standards.  Also helpful is the section discussing ways to spot coins that may not be as good as the 'look,' and why (toning, doctoring, cleaning, etc.).  I definitely can recommend this book as a stand alone purchase but would steer the interested buyer to another of Mr. Travers' books titled 'How to make money in coins right now.'  I say this only because each book covers a lot of the same ground but the other contains information crucial to the 'value' question that every coin collector has at the back of his mind.  Either will do, however, I just don't recommend purchasing both:  One or the other and spend the money you don't spend on a nice collectible coin.	2003-07-12
US	44375481	RSJVS950V1HDF	0609807463	271304978	How to Make Money in Coins Right Now, 2nd Edition	Books	3	69	69	N	N	Interesting but not essential, lots of the usual suspects	Mr. Travers is a prolific author, to say the least.  I seem to purchase a lot of his books even though I usually find myself thinking that the book at hand might have included more information, which is probably why I purchase a lot of Mr. Travers' books.  I'm certain that this is no oversight from the man.  Afterall, he makes his money by being meticulous in his own 'editorial' decisions, when looking at coins.  I mention this because this book is not exxentially different from his coin 'survival guide.'  In other words, you should buy one or the other but not both.  In my mind, the biggest difference between the two books is that in the survival guide Mr. Travers discusses the changes in coin grading standards; a topic so esoteric that this info is going to be barely relevant to the overwhelming majority of collectors.  In this book Mr. Travers includes a chapter of information that he tells the reader he has never disclosed in book form:  The 'When To Sell' chapter.  This chapter is useful, as most of Mr. Travers' advice is, but there is nothing really earth shattering in it, just good common sense advice, most of which can be parsed from the other book.  To distill Mr. Travers' views in this book, he strongly holds the belief that money can be made by buying undergraded but encapsulated coins and submitting them for regrades, and also by spotting hidden gems amongst so-called raw coins that are out there whose charms are apparent to the keen-eyed and well-informed, i.e. Gather as much coin knowledge esoterica as possible, look carefully at coins for things that countless others have failed to see, and buy gold coins when the price of gold is down and you can hardly fail to make money.  Oh, yes, and always go for quality!  The one thing that I find to be of enormous help in both books is the excellent and comprehensive discussion of coin grades from AU 58 through MS 70 (and, in this volume a corresponding discussion of Proof coins).  My problem with the capsule cracking scheme is that it seems like a mug's game.  This view, by the way, is shared by the subjects of the interviews with a couple of coin world heavyweights which are included in this book.  To sum up, any book by Mr. Travers is filled with helpful information, but this one has so much shared information with the survival guide that if you have one don't buy the other.  If you don't have either, my bias is for this one.racking scheme is that it seems like a mug's game.  This view, by the way, is shared by the subjects of the interviews with a couple of coin world heavyweights which are included in this book.  To sum up, any book by Mr. Travers is filled with helpful information, but this one has so much shared information with the survival guide that if you have one don't buy the other.  If you don't have either, my bias is for this one.	2003-07-12
US	44375481	RIZ632U5E9SYQ	0688153887	331165566	Touring Nam: Vietnam War Stories	Books	3	1	3	N	N	A bit uneven but definitely worth the price of admission	The conceit of this book is to take one along on a start to finish ride on a tour of Vietnam as experienced by the typical 'grunt.'  It's a pretty good idea and I believe that the editors did a fine job of selecting various essays, short fiction and brief sociologies to describe the process from induction through return to the &quot;world.&quot;  There are issues raised in this book that, unless you were a participant in the actual war, I am quite certain will be new to you.  I am thinking in particular about the issue of race and the relationship of the war to the Civil Rights movement in the United States and also, of course, the reactions of both blacks and whites to them.  There is a lot of day to day life experience included here too which is not always addressed in other literary sources on Vietnam.  Not every selection is golden however, and one may find himself, as I did, skimming some bits to get to the better bits but on the whole this is a good, solid effort that, for the price, definitely merits a purchase.  One critic below pans this book and recommends Tim O'Brien's book but, quite frankly, all of the best bits from that book are included in this one which means that you don't have to wade through the gaseous prose surrounding them in the original.  I would recommend a book titled 'Reporting Vietnam:  American Journalism 1959-1975.'  This is an utterly brilliant compilation that, rather than tracing the year in the life of the grunt, does a treatment of the entire American conflict.  It is filled with riveting stuff and will have you staying up through the night devouring it.	2003-07-11
US	44375481	RNUJ0Z2KUTQX2	0767904435	940216857	If I Die in a Combat Zone: Box Me Up and Ship Me Home	Books	2	38	65	N	N	Purple prose is a bit over the top yet excellent in parts	I'm not a big fan of Tim O'Brien's writing:  It's a stylistic thing.  I believe that he is neither a natural raconteur nor a gifted observer, either of which is what turns a book into a great read.  If you've read much at all about the Vietnam subjective experience you are bound to have come across bits of this book because in it O'Brien does show flashes of pure story telling talent and these bits have been excerpted and published as essays and short stories.  The premise of this book is an autobiographical look at the author's life leading up to and including his tour of duty in Vietnam.  In it he thoughtfully and sensitively addresses the plethora of social, martial and political elements whirling about the Vietnam theatre of war.  Unfortunately, he gets a bit tripped up in his attempts to showcase his Liberal Arts education by interweaving quotations from Socrates through Plato, Homer and various poets into the narrative.  I suppose that the point could be made that in doing so he is attempting to demonstrate on the one hand that war and its aftermath and injustice are inseparable and always have been and on the other hand that because of this the Vietnam war and its product is no more or less noble than any of the 'heroic' wars of legend.  I'd rather not argue that point, expecially in the context of a memoir of one man's single year of experience of the Vietnam War.  What I would argue is that O'Brien's attempts at literary flight fall flat, probably because they have the look and feel of a college essay, or mere highfalutin literary contrivance.  In my opinion, O'Brien fails to  bridge the gap between legend and the miserable year he spent working as a foot soldier and clerk typist in Vietnam.  If you would like to experience examples from each of the two archetypes I refered to above try, for great observational skill the book by Tobias Wolff on his experience in Vietnam titled 'In Pharoah's Army,' and for great storytelling Phillip Caputo's book 'A Rumor of War.'  You'll love them both, I'm sure.  As for this one, I would only recommend it to fans of puerile sentimentality (altho' who could expect more from a 21 year old?), and those who, like myself, want to expose themselves to just about everything out there on the subject that shows literary promise.  In the final analysis, this book promises much but delivers unevenly.War.'  You'll love them both, I'm sure.  As for this one, I would only recommend it to fans of puerile sentimentality (altho' who could expect more from a 21 year old?), and those who, like myself, want to expose themselves to just about everything out there on the subject that shows literary promise.  In the final analysis, this book promises much but delivers unevenly.	2003-07-10
US	44375481	R1T9CGCNB1Z27R	1883011906	94817990	Reporting Vietnam: American Journalism 1959-1975 (Library of America)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Semi-definitive 'Nam reportage is contemporary must read!	I say semi-definitive reportage because this brilliant compilation of news articles, magazine essays and excerpts from books is the distilled nectar from the two volume hardbound series issued earlier.  While I haven't read the above-mentioned 2 volumes, I have read enough other Vietnam material to authoritatively state that this book does a more than adequate, dare I say brilliant, job of crystallizing the plethora of intertwined issues that encompassed the Vietnam war and the world stage upon which it unfolded.  This book also offers some very unpleasant lessons to those of us who found our way to it due to the recent round of warfare commenced by the Bush Administration in order to save the world from Communism, ummm, I mean Terrorism.<br />For better or worse all of the other books I've read on the Vietnam war fall into two categories:  The \\"Minute History of ...\\" and the \\"My personal Hell in ....\\"  The problem with the former is that most people either don't have the patience or the desire to wade through all of the excrutiating details that went into the Vietnam war, and since any good history necessarily contains at least a majority of such unsavory bits, all of the 'good' histories of Vietnam rarely, I suspect, get finished.  Plus, even when well-done the story is told with such detachment that the reader's mind often wanders while his eyes glide over the text.  The problem with the latter style of narrative is that the events contained within are of such a narrow scope that no matter how powerful and well-written (see 'Rumor of a War' by Caputo, and 'A Boy's War' by Wolf, for instance), they are mere pinhole theatre.  'Reporting Vietnam' is unique, enlightening and vital because of the following factors.  First, the editors chose to paint a broad canvas of the war by choosing articles that tell not only firsthand of battles, POW camp, campaigns and day to day life but also of home such as the events of and reactions to the Kent State incident, a soldier's return to \\"the world,\\" and from Norman Mailer, his account of a Vietnam protest in Washington, D.C.  The volume also contains extended essays upon the history of Vietnam, its social structures, the conduct of the war and politics (in both USA and in Vietnam), the living conditions and infrastructure of both South and North Vietnam, reportage on the military excursions into Laos and Cambodia, and the effect that the protracted conflict has on tribespeople, peasants, urban dwellers, etc.  If one reads this book without more, he will be rewarded with page after page of top notch and fascinating writing.  If one chooses to seek answers to common complaints and unspoken questions of history regarding this war, I believe that he'll find some answers.  For instance, one of the most common complaints we hear from the diehards (inevitably nonparticipants?) is that we didn't win because we didn't go all out.  An answer is found in the article by one of LBJ's personal secretary's on his discussions with her about the war.  To wit, only the loonies seriously contemplated nuclear strikes and there was an ever-present threat that some escalation of the war would be the trigger-point for a world war with either or both the USSR and PRC. Also, we really, really were fighting all-out every time our young men and women were out there fighting (at least until the Nixon administration) and it is an insult to any who served in Vietnam to argue differently.  An uspoken question never asked or answered in my presence is why didn't the South fight?  The easy answer to this is that, of course the South fought, they just were overwhelmed by the Communists.  The more compelling answer which this book satisfactorily demonstrates is that the social structure and politics of South Vietnam were fundamentally incapable of sustaining protracted, successful war-winning conflict due to its inherent weaknesses (an \\"absence of ideology, tradition or a coherent nationalism\\" says Peter Braestrup in one article).  Finally, the question of whether we won or lost the war.  To put it succinctly, however inaccurately, we won every battle we fought, North Vietnam won everywhere else.  Finally, I believe that this book will lead one to the conclusion that the USA has once again set itself up for the very hard, obviously thankless and ultimately impossible task of saving the world from terrorism by sending US men and women to occupy foreign soil for these stated aims.  I base my belief on the contents of 'Reporting Vietnam' which convincingly demonstrate that ultimately no war can be won by proxy, and an occupying power's efforts and accomplishments are always temporary and superficial until and unless the proxy population take to heart the aims of the intervening power's program.  This was not done in South Vietnam, I doubt it is being done successfully in the Middle East.cle).  Finally, the question of whether we won or lost the war.  To put it succinctly, however inaccurately, we won every battle we fought, North Vietnam won everywhere else.  Finally, I believe that this book will lead one to the conclusion that the USA has once again set itself up for the very hard, obviously thankless and ultimately impossible task of saving the world from terrorism by sending US men and women to occupy foreign soil for these stated aims.  I base my belief on the contents of 'Reporting Vietnam' which convincingly demonstrate that ultimately no war can be won by proxy, and an occupying power's efforts and accomplishments are always temporary and superficial until and unless the proxy population take to heart the aims of the intervening power's program.  This was not done in South Vietnam, I doubt it is being done successfully in the Middle East.	2003-07-08
US	44375481	R1B4G7IQGZOKVL	1566251044	450780880	Travers' Top 88 Coins Over $100	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Valuable for more than just coin picks!  Here's Why:	This book is going to help two primary classes of people:  'rare coin' collectors and collectors of 'rare' coins.  Please indulge me with my distinction between the two.  The rare coin collector is the person who builds a collection of coins, based around, say, getting one of each year and mint mark of the Buffalo Nickel, for instance.  The collector of rare coins collects any coin that catches his fancy but which is distinguished by being extremely rare or highly prized within its genre, the 1955 Double Die Lincoln Cent, for instance.  This book is going to help the latter type of collector because the coin-world renowned authority on U.S. coins, Scott Travers, has chosen 88 coins and categories of coins that are either 'winners' i.e. highly desirable and much sought after and 'losers' i.e. much hyped as being desirable and sought after but which are not, or carry too much of a premium to be worth acquiring.  As a handy reference, this book is great for allowing one to get right to the point without having to do much of any research on one's own.  Travers exxentially crystalizes decades of his coin buying/selling experience into brief form explaining why he has picked or panned each subject.  These thumbnail analyses will be of help to the former type of collector to begin to understand what it is about an issue or series, mint state or condition, that creates demand and desire within a coin's niche.  If one begins to employ critical analysis such as Mr. Travers does in his explications, whilst examining a coin or investigating a new realm of the coin collecting universe, one can make informed decisions about constructing the most highly desirable agglomeration of any given coin genre by knowing which coins to aggressively hunt for and acquire and which can be collected at one's leisure.  After one has taught oneself to grade coins properly, this book is a must own for the entry level or, like me, just plain lazy collector of rare coins.  Highly Recommended!!	2003-06-13
US	44375481	RML654WGW99BG	0847819671	492385216	Unseen Warhol	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	4 Stars for every one else, 5 for hardcore Warholians	This book is a genuine pleasure to read, and a trove of insights into an Andy Warhol that really hasn't been masticated to death in every other book about Warhol.  It was compiled by two relatively late-comers to the Warhol scene (Ming Vase, and one of the Artistic Directors of 'Interview'), but it encompasses aspects of Andy from his first days in New York right up to the end.  The construction of the book is such that each chapter is based around the discussion of experiences and impressions of Andy and the Andy 'scene' by various individuals who worked with, socialized with, or dealt with Andy.  Some of these narrators are people so peripheral to Andy's orbit that only the hardcore Warholphiliac will recognize their names.  Others are people whose names come up in even the most casual examination of Andy Warhol's life and work, and a couple are people whom no one has heard of.  Because the authors know many of the subjects of the book the discussions can take on the aspect of intimate conversation.  This is nice, especially to one who has vicariously lived the events spoken of through deep immersion in the literature and media surrounding Andy Warhol and the Pop Art Explosion he detonated.  This is one of the best books about Andy that was not written by him, and if you are right into his art and life then it is a must read.  If there is any theme that the authors of the book wish to stress it is that Andy was a spiritual person.  I'm unsure if their efforts convinced me, but I must say that they revealed facets of the Andy Warhol experience that heretofore I was not aware of.	2003-06-13
US	44375481	RBPBFFB5D1OZI	0933372027	186656466	N.C.I. Grading Guide: A Step-by-step approach to the grading of uncirculated and proof coins	Books	2	26	31	N	Y	Avoid this unless you wish to collect early U.S. coins!	This book is woefully inadequate for anybody who wishes to learn to grade modern U.S. coins.  One explanation for this may be the 1990 copyright date because it quite simply leaves out critical information for certain collectible U.S. coins.  This book does have some vital and relevant information such as coin collecting nomenclature but this information is available in better, more helpful books.  Certainly, the sections dedicated to \\"High Points of Design\\" and \\"Visual Impairment Severity Levels\\" which use photographic blow-ups of actual coins to show points and areas of concern for the grading of coins are an excellent visual aid, and especially helpful regarding U.S. commemoratives which are thoughtfully included in the book.  However, the book lacks absolutely anything about the Kennedy Half Dollar and leaves out essential Visual Impairment Diagrams of the Jefferson Nickel; nothing for the Anthony Dollar either which, considering the fact that they are barely collectible in anything less than uncirculated conidtion, is probably forgivable, but still...<br />The book you want to buy right now instead, flaws and all, is 'Photograde.'  I would definitely avoid this book unless one is only interested in building a so-called type coin collection or U.S. commemoratives in which case this is a definite  buy.  Otherwise, wait for the inevitable update because this version is outdated!	2003-05-19
US	44375481	R3USRIZ9EWPIHA	0345216075	746789218	The Complete Book of Surfing	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Beyond quaint, kooky or camp, this is an cultural artifact	This 1965 (not 1969 as printed above) issued Ballantine paperback is an honest to goodness 'how to' book on the art of surfing, ummm, I mean sport of surfing. Back in the 1960's when people actually built things and were self-taught in their endeavours, as opposed to today's world when we buy everything off the shelf and can take courses on practically anything, a book like this was probably a godsend to every midwestern kook and gremlin wannabe out there, for this book literally covers everything from the history of the surfing, to how waves are made by mother ocean, to how man has contrived to ride them over time, to how one can do it today, circa 1965 and even to building a board of one's own. Oddly, for a paperback, the text is heavily sprinkled with really great photographic examples of such things as the 'quasimodo,' 'hanging five,' wake surfing, pearling, trimming, carving and stalling, keeping in mind that surf photography then was done with Brownies, Leicas and box cameras. It's all done in a tone of earnestness too which makes the book that much better. Anyone who has a love of and interest in the history of surfing should probably at least read this book and should probably own it. I mean, who knew that France has been an European surf mecca since the 1950's, or that so few spots in California were surfed back then (yep, primo California surf spots are mapped)? Finally one of the really great sections of the book is its discussion of modern surfboard design (with requisite diagrams). Let's face it, if you've read this far you're gonna buy this book, and you should!	2003-04-17
US	44375481	RVZWYDHWUVECD	1582018839	923840995	The Seeker	Books	4	27	27	N	N	This comedy of manners is undeservedly obscure!	It's probably no mistake that you are here reading this review as I can't imagine finding it without knowing something about either the book or the author.  I came across the book quite by accident from a lot of old paperbacks from the 1960's.  Apparently, the author was quite well-known in his time and even collaborated with Booth Tarkington on some work.  This story, published in 1915 might best be described as an American version of a Jeeves and Bertram Wooster novel (P.G. Wodehouse) only with Bertie turning the tables on Jeeves.  The premise is that an English manservant is won in a hand of cards by a wealthy family of the American West from the second in line to an English Earldom:  The heir needs money and the Americans need polish, or so thinks its matriarch.  Of course, nothing goes to plan and we soon find that the butler, his former 'charge' and the Earl himself are all easily won over to the American way of seeing things, much to the consternation and despair of those Americans back home  striving to be blue bloods in their own right.  The comedy, of course, is in the events which bring about this conversion and finally to the ironic and humorous 'crowning' event.  For fear of ruining the plot and the outcome, suffice it to say that parts of this book will doubtless have you  laughing aloud as the author throws every possible twist and turn he can into the road that leads to our erstwhile butler becoming a successful entrepreneur and one of Red Gap's (\\"the fastest growing city in the state if not the entire country\\") finest, and a true blue American citizen.<br />This story is especially interesting in light of recent world-wide events, what with the new climate of distrust and fear here in the United States and our recent pre-emptive military invasions of foreign countries, because the point the author makes in his story is a moral one:  That it is the traditional American values of egalitarianism, hospitality, unpretentiousness, hardwork, friendship and friendliness which make America great and these are what cause foreigners to strive to adopt American ways and even to wish to become American.  Fortunately, this comedy of manners come morality play doesn't become preachy or self-righteous as it exalts America to the world; however, it does have a somewhat disturbing amount of racially charged language which, although perhaps common to the time, is a bit unnerving to the modern, non-bigot reader.  Furthermore, about one fifth of the book drags in places where the plot contrivances become a bit much but, having said that, the many delightful passages in the book which have the reader laughing out loud for prolonged periods more than make up for the rough edges and dodgy bits.  This book is highly recommended to anyone who enjoys a good, smart farce and even more to those who are fascinated by snap shot literary glimpses into a bygone civilization and culture as certainly turn-of-the-century America is.riendliness which make America great and these are what cause foreigners to strive to adopt American ways and even to wish to become American.  Fortunately, this comedy of manners come morality play doesn't become preachy or self-righteous as it exalts America to the world; however, it does have a somewhat disturbing amount of racially charged language which, although perhaps common to the time, is a bit unnerving to the modern, non-bigot reader.  Furthermore, about one fifth of the book drags in places where the plot contrivances become a bit much but, having said that, the many delightful passages in the book which have the reader laughing out loud for prolonged periods more than make up for the rough edges and dodgy bits.  This book is highly recommended to anyone who enjoys a good, smart farce and even more to those who are fascinated by snap shot literary glimpses into a bygone civilization and culture as certainly turn-of-the-century America is.	2003-04-15
US	44375481	R1JI3BHEKEZOUR	1860742564	545651269	High Art: A History of the Psychedelic Poster	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Far out but not Outtasight!!!	First off, fair warning: If you think you might like to own this book then you should buy it now as this is a highly collectable book. Essentially, this is a survey of the 1960's era psychedelic concert/venue poster genre that sprang up in San Francisco before spreading throughout the USA and the world in the form of the 'black light' poster.<br />The author, a British music promoter who became a poster art aficionado, has done a good job of describing the development and rise of the genre as well as tying it into the overall history of the advertising art poster beginning in the 'Belle Epoque.' Within chapters, he singles out artists and their work and places them in the context of the movement. The national origin of the author is a factor here as it is obvious that the author has personal relationships with and has a more intimate knowledge of the British poster artists and art scene than he has with those of the American scene. Still, he does a more than adequate job covering the domestic American scene. This book weighs a ton because of the excellent, thick, paper stock it is printed on and because the English printer used lavish amounts of eyepopping brightly colored ink in its printing. As a sidenote, there is a fascinating section on acid blotter paper art with accompanying photographs, and a section on collecting psychedelic posters. PLUS, to get one's collection going, new copies of the book include a coupon for a complimentary psychedelic poster from Alan Forbes and the San Francisco Art Lab.<br />I rate this book only four stars because 1) due to its highly collectible nature, it should have been published in hardback also. 2) The author cites some work by an artist and then fails to picture/identify it. 3) This topic begs for a book at least twice a long as it is.<br />Still, I am quite certain that any purchaser will be more than happy with it.	2003-03-02
US	44375481	R23SS2OYSS5WKV	0307993612	6778640	Photograde: Official Photographic Grading Guide for United States Coins	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Spend coins on this, but find it in F-12 to save money.	This book is exxentially an extended version of the coin conditions/states table that you'll commonly find in coin magazines.  This book is much, much more complete and comprehensive as it covers all U.S. coins in circulation (no commemoratives) and has photos and key points of wear for each grade from About Good to About Uncirculated.  This edition also has interesting chapters concerning the cleaning of coins and artificial toning.  This reference is a great help to inexperienced collectors of USA coins who are building eclectic collections.  Don't feel that you need to buy this book new, the grading information is static and, as you will learn much from this book in a short time, it won't be used much thus used copies are likely to be in excellent condition.  Four stars because, as the young reviewer below states, color photos are sorely missed in this book.	2003-02-12
US	44375481	RHSRG9KRVCPCQ	0440153263	870666799	MARAUDER'S MOON	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A ripsnortin' yarn about range war, robbery and revenge!	Reading this book reminded me why I enjoyed Luke Short's books so when I was a boy.  This plot-twist laden and fast-paced shoot 'em up will have the reader on the edge of his seat as he burns through the pages of this well-told tale.  Our hapless hero is hurrahed into a hanging (his own) before fate intervenes and he finds himself caught up in a range war between two long time rivals who both want him dead.  Suffice it to say that in the end right overcomes might and no amount of treachery, double-dealing, outlawry or attempts on his life are enough to overcome the ingenuity and resourcefulness of our hero who saves the day, sells the ranch and gets the girl.  My only complaint is with the  very ending which should have occurred either a page and a half earlier or a page and a half later.  Hasta la vista	2003-01-29
US	44375481	R2WJGWDJ9I8XPN	4770011067	392520945	Hagakure: The Book of the Samurai	Books	3	24	31	N	N	Only for Samurai fetishists and Occidental Japanophiles!	Deliberate before purchasing this book unless you are a hardcore Japan fetishist. I know that most of the reviews here are glowing and I am nonplussed by this because, frankly, this book is definitely way too esoteric for most.<br />Hagakure is a compilation of the selected musings of a 'retired' Samurai as recorded by a disciple or admirer who visited him in his post-retirement gig as a Buddhist monk. These selections pertain to the day to day comportment of a 'good' Samurai, sweeping statements about how things work, and examples of good 'Way.' As this was dictated during the late 1600's, you can imagine how otherworldly much of this information is, and frankly this is the book's main attraction: The total alterity of a supposed way of life of a discrete segment of the population of historical Japan.<br />If one reads enough books about subjects Japanese, one is bound to run into excerpts of this book being quoted say, or displayed as chapter headings. This is because the book has some really excellent 'sound bites' that beg to be used as such. Sadly, this nugget-like structure makes a linear reading of the book a bit of a bore.<br />Also, if one reads the text closely (assuming that the translator has done a good job, and I am not sure that I would concede this point), one is forced to realize that either the narrator is not a particularly deep-thinker or that the scribe to whom he spoke did only a fair job of capturing the essence of the narrator's speech. One needs only to have read, from Japan, Sei Shonagon's brilliant 'Pillow Book' or 'The Story of a Rogue,' as I believe it is called, for the contrast between these truly perceptive and insightful efforts and those found here to cast this book in a very poor light. I highly recommend an excellent book by Hiroaki Sato titled \\"Legends of the Samurai\\" where, incidentally, I believe that Yamamoto is quoted, as an alternative to this as a means of getting the Samurai perspective.	2003-01-05
US	44375481	R7UU46169B6M8	0060960043	606103027	America	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Perhaps the only serious Andy Warhol discussion in print!	Anyone who is interested in Andy Warhol's interviews and written work knows that he had a penchant for giving seemingly inane off the cuff anwers to any question posed to him.  The beauty of his quips is that they are often amazingly insightful whilst simultaneously maddeningly flippant.  Interestingly, in books such as 'Popism' and 'A Philosophy...' we are told that Andy's input was minimal and that we mustn't consider them to actually 'be' by him, even though in these and in the Warhol artwork that others claim as their own, Andy's genius seems to permeate them.<br />One of the things that makes this book, 'Andy Warhol's America' interesting is that it leaves little doubt that virtually everything in it is from Andy himself (except perhaps the introductory paragraph which has the characteristics of someone speaking for Andy) because the material is just not commercial or avant garde enough for anyone to wish to claim it.<br />This is a book of snaps by Andy Warhol which nominally pertain to various chapter headings:  People, All-stars, Natural History, Vogue, etc.  Accompanying these is commentary by Andy.  Here, you will witness the only example I am aware of in which Andy makes unequivocal political statements, allowing us a glimpse of his world view.  While he is not strident, he is also not coy as in the McGovern political campaign poster he made in the 1970's.  This really seems to be Andy's voice.<br />In the photographs one is constantly wowed by the effective use he makes of his little poloroid:  amazing really.  He has a knack for seeing the ironic or dramatic or unusual and capturing it.  Especially gratifying are the shots which appear to be 'shot from the hip' yet somehow incorporate the oddly juxtaposed elements into an effective framework that 'gets' the subject he is shooting.  Perhaps because one knows they are by the great Andy Warhol one finds the photographs captivating enough so that one wouldn't miss the accompanying text and perhaps this is why few of them contain identified subjects.  It is also amusing that Andy had a better eye for capturing the male physique than he had for the female.<br />I rate this only three stars because the production seems more like a magazine than a soft-bound art book.  This may have been intentional, to wit creating a 'Vogue' magazine view of America or it may be attributable to the general decline in print production values that American bookdom was laboring under when this book was made.  Whatever it is, this books loses a star or two for being less well-made than one would expect at the price.w of them contain identified subjects.  It is also amusing that Andy had a better eye for capturing the male physique than he had for the female.<BR>I rate this only three stars because the production seems more like a magazine than a soft-bound art book.  This may have been intentional, to wit creating a 'Vogue' magazine view of America or it may be attributable to the general decline in print production values that American bookdom was laboring under when this book was made.  Whatever it is, this books loses a star or two for being less well-made than one would expect at the price.	2002-12-29
US	44375481	RZL65X6IZA8RE	0805031154	326826823	Mao: A Life	Books	2	10	23	N	N	This Mao, bu yao cos' bu hao!	Sorry, but I couldn't make it through this one.  A shame because the book began with such promise.  Alas, I got bogged down by the somewhat turgid and unimaginative prose which Short utilizes to kick the shins of the hapless reader with.  The book also suffers from an interesting method of making attributions, and the quirky and somewhat erratic use of old and new-style romanization.  Short says that he chose to use the old, Wade-Giles I suppose, romanization where the close association of the old name to the subject renders the name otherwise unintelligible.  Thus, it took me a double take to recognize Short's 'GMD' as the 'KMT' or KuoMinTang.  It also causes one's teeth to gnash when a paragraph contains different names transcribed in both romanization standards.<br />I feel that the author wished to make us to figuratively live the Long March and could think of no better way than to drone on and on around a central theme as a bee would buzz around a flower when it is unsure whether to land and take its pollen until we have quite forgotten what central point was being made.  In fact, when people ask I always admit to having survived it, the march I mean.  It would be absurd to claim to anyone who's picked it up that I had finished the book.  Here's why it is so bad:  If this is meant to be a scholarly treatise, this book should have been heavily footnoted and accompanied by an extensive and traditional bibliography.  If this book is meant to be popular history then it should be written in a lively manner that makes its point with grace, charm and wit and none of the hemming and hawing that Short seems to get caught up in.	2002-12-28
US	44375481	R1KRQ2YKHHBFQ2	0688175376	85549901	Angry White Pyjamas: A Scrawny Oxford Poet Takes Lessons From The Tokyo Riot Police	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Aikido you not, this is a good read!	It wasn't until I checked in to this review that it became apparent that many martial arts students are reading this book under the impression that it is somehow about the martial arts.  Well, it is I suppose, but not in the way one expects.  So, if you are considering the book because you want to learn all about learning a martial art or all about Aikido or even about learning Aikido, I'm not sure that this is the book for you, although it might help and besides it is so well written that you can't help enjoying yourself when you read it; so go ahead.<br />Still, this book is best for people who like to read travelogues; people who are interested in Japan and think they might like to go there to teach English or something; and for people who like to read stories about real life experiences by people who know how to tell them.<br />Ostensibly the story revolves around completing the so-called riot police training at a renowned Tokyo Aikido school.  Our protagonist is a super well-spoken and super talented liberal arts major from England living the life of a semi-itinerant ex-patriate with similarly situated and talented flatmates and together they undertake a year-long course of Aikido study that places them all in the context of a multi-national stew of the rawest neophyte martial arts student and the most over-cooked lump of gristle and bone Aikido teacher.  This, along with a host of added ingredients from the school where the author teaches English and the streets where the author interacts with the local populace is is the main course of this book.<br />This is a charming tale because the author has a knack for spotting the best and most interesting qualities of the people he meets and portraying them in a way that gives pleasure and informs one about say the contrast between Japan and the so-called West, or about the strength or weakness of a person and what about him seems to cause or accentuate this quality.<br />The author's description of the pain, desperation and humiliations that he has to endure in order to complete the course could be a bit of a burden and sometimes is except that he artfully uses this as a mere backdrop against which he paints the real canvas composed of various psychological portraits of the characters in his story.  These portraits while genuinely entertaining seem to be used by the author to create a composite of the human being, much as Homer does in 'The Iliad.'  This is to say that we are shown a broad panoply of the human condition: sadism, malice, envy, regret, love, affection, humor, pathos, pity, recklessness, disrespect, anger, humility and more, and since this plays out before us in the span of one short year one is overawed by the author's facility in recognizing, isolating and then presenting each quality to the reader in such a way that he is witness to the phenomenon of everyday interaction becoming terribly important and interesting.  This last bit brings me back to my initial thought that perhaps this book really is about learning a martial art.  For, at the end of it all, Twigger seems to have shown us that the truly successful student of martial arts is the one who removes his subjective self from his objective path and allows his spirit to overcome his ego.humiliations that he has to endure in order to complete the course could be a bit of a burden and sometimes is except that he artfully uses this as a mere backdrop against which he paints the real canvas composed of various psychological portraits of the characters in his story.  These portraits while genuinely entertaining seem to be used by the author to create a composite of the human being, much as Homer does in 'The Iliad.'  This is to say that we are shown a broad panoply of the human condition: sadism, malice, envy, regret, love, affection, humor, pathos, pity, recklessness, disrespect, anger, humility and more, and since this plays out before us in the span of one short year one is overawed by the author's facility in recognizing, isolating and then presenting each quality to the reader in such a way that he is witness to the phenomenon of everyday interaction becoming terribly important and interesting.  This last bit brings me back to my initial thought that perhaps this book really is about learning a martial art.  For, at the end of it all, Twigger seems to have shown us that the truly successful student of martial arts is the one who removes his subjective self from his objective path and allows his spirit to overcome his ego.	2002-12-28
US	44375481	R2YCJZK7VCUYYW	1573226882	326942117	Fever Pitch	Books	1	12	23	N	N	We want Hornby, not spot-faced, albeit sensitive git	Don't get me wrong, I love Hornby's writing and have since reading the short story that eventually became the movie 'About A Boy.'  Yet, I've tried unsuccessfully now two times to get through this self-described autobiographical journal of an adolescent soccer football fan. I've really, really wanted to love this book, last month when I put it down only 2/3's through and three years ago when I put it down 1/2 the way through but I just can't.<br />I can't because: 1) A sports fanatic doesn't need to be told what being a sports fanatic is like and a non-sports fanatic wouldn't get it even if he could give a damnation.  There is a fellow named Roger Angell who writes about baseball who can really make a non-fan interested in the game, so try him if you want to learn about sport. 2) This book really isn't at all about rooting for the home team, or even about the sport of soccer football. This is a book by and about a rather sensitive boy being brought up in 'metroland' by a divorced couple who finds that while he really cannot cope with his parents' separation he must because they are, afterall, separated. 3) Nick Hornby, while being an extraordinary talent when it comes to writing stories, is really not interesting as either a soccer football fan or a child.<br />If you really want to read about soccer football fandom find the effort by Salman Rushdie who conveys everything that Horny attempts in this book, only succeeds.  Having said that, you are probably going to read this book anyway because you are, like I am, fond of Hornby's other books. I've tried to warn you.	2002-12-12
US	44375481	RMN53I8HA1YSV	0646065432	176941032	Chopper from the inside: Confessions of the Australian Underworld's Most Feared Headhunter, Mark Brandon Read	Books	3	7	7	N	Y	Not bad, but definitely see the movie!	If you have just stumbled upon this book, you might be interested to know that there is now a movie about \\"Chopper\\" Reade, which is what got me to buy this book.  Frankly, as between the book and the movie, I prefered the movie but that was entertainment afterall, and this is reality, presumably.  'Chopper, From the Inside' is the autobiographical reminiscences of one of Australia's most notorious criminals.  This book actually helped to make Mr. Reade into something of a celebrity if not quite a hero in his native land.  One may ask oneself how a sociopathic brute of a man with decidededly homicidal tendencies could attain such status?  Well, I suppose that it helps that Mr. Reade has both the talent for telling a good story and a well-developed if dark sense of humor.  It helps too that the war Chopper wages is primarily directed at other members of the criminal world and the flotsam and jetsam that float into and out of this world.  In other words, he seems perfectly harmless so long as you, personally, don't cross him.  In addition, if he is to be believed, he is loyal to a fault, a romantic when it comes to the honor of his mates and lady friends, and just generally the type of fellow you would want around if it ever came to a bit of bother.  This isn't the kind of book that one walks away from with deep insights into the humanity that lies within all of us.  Rather, it is a well told tale of murder, mayhem, casual violence, friendship, loyalty, love, and honor, by and about a fellow who knows better.  It is this knowing better, that helps to explain why even when his activities go beyond the pale, the depravity seems logical and, in this protagonist's queer world, somehow fitting.  This book was an interesting read, but not quite good enough for me to pay full retail for the second installment of his story, if that tells you anything.	2002-12-08
US	44375481	R3DAJA3O0KRBNC	0399506136	84618580	Sanshiro	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Properly Poignant, Pungent and Powerful Prose!	I rate this irony laden story on par with Soseki's most important novel, 'Kokoro.'  Joseph Conrad's novels had to travel to Africa and the East Indies to establish the parameters within which the Japanese lived their daily lives as they grappled with the effects of Western Rationalism upon a nonindustrial society. Fortunately for world literature, Soseki Natsume was up to the task of documenting this transitional period with grace, wit, and sensitivity. Soseki's books generally are either serious ('Kokoro') or satiric ('Botchan,' 'I Am A Cat'), 'Sanshiro' is both and it is the better for it.<br />After graduating from a provincial school Sanshiro enters Japan's greatest university and encounters a number of Tokyo sophisticates, among them westernized girls, famed artists and writers, jaded academicians, dedicated scientists and his best friend Yojiro a lovable, well-meaning scoundrel who constantly throws his shy and self-effacing compatriot into the thick of things. Because there are so many elements that make up this heady mix, the reader has the choice of processing the story on many different levels. At the very simplest level it is about first love and disappointment, but it is also a commentary upon the effects of the new on the old, East meets West, the city vs. the countryside, the traditional and untraditional, youthful idealism and middle-aged disappointment. This probably sounds as though it might be tedious or pedantic, but really Soseki's treatment of the themes is gentle and a delight to read. For instance, when one of Sanshiro's heroes is disgraced by a well-meaning plan that goes awry, Soseki blunts the pain by riffng on the inscrutability of the 'philosophical smoke' streaming through his victim-hero's nostrils as he puffs on his pipe. A stream of smoke by which Sanshiro's roguish friend claims to read emotions. Also, when Soseki lampoons the intellectual conceits of his characters, he does it in a way that the reader must seriously consider each proposition before the joke becomes apparent. As to the pain of disappointment in love, this is always sad and heartfelt yet Soseki is able to ameliorate it by leaving the subject and the object of the heartbreak ambiguous as if either side may have been responsible.<br />This is imagined, but one begins to suspect that Haruki Murakami was influenced by this novel and even appropriates some of the themes found in it for his own: mysterious and alluring women who flit in and out of the story, odd scientific and philosophical theories as props, central character as passive witness. It is fun to imagine this and one begins to find other coincidences too. Anyway, it is just a thought, perhaps brought on by the coincidence that Jay Rubin, the translator who does an excellent job of bringing this text to life, also translates for Haruki Murakami.<br />Readers, this is one of the finer Japanese novels that I have encountered. The author often had me smiling, laughing, cringing, sighing and rooting for the various characters in this well told story.osition before the joke becomes apparent. As to the pain of disappointment in love, this is always sad and heartfelt yet Soseki is able to ameliorate it by leaving the subject and the object of the heartbreak ambiguous as if either side may have been responsible.<BR>This is imagined, but one begins to suspect that Haruki Murakami was influenced by this novel and even appropriates some of the themes found in it for his own: mysterious and alluring women who flit in and out of the story, odd scientific and philosophical theories as props, central character as passive witness. It is fun to imagine this and one begins to find other coincidences too. Anyway, it is just a thought, perhaps brought on by the coincidence that Jay Rubin, the translator who does an excellent job of bringing this text to life, also translates for Haruki Murakami.<BR>Readers, this is one of the finer Japanese novels that I have encountered. The author often had me smiling, laughing, cringing, sighing and rooting for the various characters in this well told story.	2002-12-06
US	44375481	R3F8NKZKYWU1XI	1881616908	128733923	Andy Warhol Prints: A Catalogue Raisonne 1962-1987	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Directed at the expert, fine for the fan, too!	I would like to add to the reviews below that this book is a pleasure to hold and to view because it is so well made.  If there is any 'art' book that should be made for posterity it is the catalog raisonne of an artist.  In this instance, the publisher has done the artist's audience a real service for, the book is beautifully printed and bound in Italy by Amilcare Pizzi; Italy seeming to have usurped Switzerland's place as the world's premier art book printer.  The pages are thick and glossy and the reproduction is top notch.<br />For those of you who are unaware of what a catalog raisonne is, it is meant to be a compilation and historical record of an artist's work that documents execution date, medium, size of image or plate, size of edition if a print, whether signed or unsigned, etc.  This information is used by artists, historians, collectors and dealers to attribute a piece of art and place it in the artist's oevre, and of course to aid in placing relative value on it.  Here too, the archivists, publisher, and editor have done a fine job of documenting the relevant facts.  This is especially important in the case of Warhol who was a serial printer, sometimes to the point of intentional promiscuity.  So, the fact that wherever possible relevant information is provided speaks volumes about the prodigious effort that must have gone into this undertaking.  I rate this book four stars because I fear that since this is the third edition, there will be yet another edition published that renders this one obsolete.  I understand this is precisely because Warhol was an inprecise documentarian, when he chose to do so at all, but I don't relish having to purchase another high dollar, though valuable book that is only slightly different from the one I already own.  For people who don't give a darn, the book rates a five.	2002-12-04
US	44375481	R2E0RK1JLQQO7A	0879516194	680590500	Legends of the Samurai	Books	5	68	70	N	N	A potentially life-altering read!	First things first.  Do not purchase this book if you are looking for a storybook collection of Japanese Samurai legends, for this is not what it is.  If I were to try to classify this in a genre, I would say it is a history book written for the lay person.  Hiroaki Sato is an extraordinarily gifted translator who has chosen to trace the history, or metamorphosis, of the Samurai consciousness from its primitive roots to the point at which it reached its very peak before giving way to the socio-economic tidal wave created by Edo-era Japn.<br />Sato's 'history' is not a linear depiction of events that he has marshalled into a unified narrative from a myriad of sources.  Rather, he has chosen to wear his editor's hat to select various primary sources and then translate them into the English as faithfully as he can without rendering them meaningless.  Many of the 'stories' he relates are translations of official Japanese histories (however fancifully told and embellished), among them some of the earliest extant written Japanese documents, also of autobiographies and memoirs of important Samurai men of letters.  Along the way he does a magnificent job of explaining to the reader the significance of certain lines of poetry, or literary references that crop up continually during the momentous and not so momentous exchanges between antagonists, friends, teachers and students, leaders and servants, etc.  Thus the tradition of speaking volumes in three short lines of poetry comes alive for the Western reader.  Much of the text is allowed to speak for itself, of course with Sato's guiding editorial hand to take us where he wants us to go.<br />One way that this form of non-narrative narrative plays out, for example, is in an explication of that super-famous story 'The Forty-Seven Ronin.'  Sato does not choose to translate one of the many dramatic stories that were written around the tale, but to first explain in dry and informative prose what occured and then to translate various contemporary critiques of the actual events.  Thus, we get a translation of the official report filed with the Shogunate by one of the officials who helped to adjudicate and administer the sentence, and criticisms of the hero and heroes of the story as well as a defence of and criticisms of the villain.  Utterly fascinating stuff, all.<br />Also, Sato allows the Samurai to unpack his mind and explain his aesthetic to us by translating select passages from books by Samurai explaining what it is to be a Samurai.  Sato's selection of trenchant philosophical gems will have the reader examining himself and resolving to live and think differently henceforth from the way he was before reading this book.<br />Criticisms:  This is not Sato's fault, but because he is translating from official histories, one's eyes can begin to glaze over from the long lists of difficult to remember, multi-syllabic, multi-word titles, names and place-names.  Thus a single person can have two or three titles, two or three names and be associated with two or three places and go into battle with a handful of like-titled companions against an array of similarly named foes.  This process is made even more difficult by the fact that Samurai might change their names and titles three or four times in the course of their lifetime:  One is never just 'Bob.'<br />I'm sure it was intentional, but the last entry in this volume really sums up all of the flaws and weaknesses of the Samurai system and aesthetic and places a fitting closure on the book when he describes the mayhem that occurs as a result of the death of a Daimyo.  The reader is left with perhaps a sense of awe, certainly a new perspective on a way of living life, and finally an appreciation of how cruel and senseless the code of the Samurai can be when taken to absurd extremes.  One closes the book with a completely different perspective of the Samurai than the one he had when opening it.contemporary critiques of the actual events.  Thus, we get a translation of the official report filed with the Shogunate by one of the officials who helped to adjudicate and administer the sentence, and criticisms of the hero and heroes of the story as well as a defence of and criticisms of the villain.  Utterly fascinating stuff, all.<BR>Also, Sato allows the Samurai to unpack his mind and explain his aesthetic to us by translating select passages from books by Samurai explaining what it is to be a Samurai.  Sato's selection of trenchant philosophical gems will have the reader examining himself and resolving to live and think differently henceforth from the way he was before reading this book.<BR>Criticisms:  This is not Sato's fault, but because he is translating from official histories, one's eyes can begin to glaze over from the long lists of difficult to remember, multi-syllabic, multi-word titles, names and place-names.  Thus a single person can have two or three titles, two or three names and be associated with two or three places and go into battle with a handful of like-titled companions against an array of similarly named foes.  This process is made even more difficult by the fact that Samurai might change their names and titles three or four times in the course of their lifetime:  One is never just 'Bob.'<BR>I'm sure it was intentional, but the last entry in this volume really sums up all of the flaws and weaknesses of the Samurai system and aesthetic and places a fitting closure on the book when he describes the mayhem that occurs as a result of the death of a Daimyo.  The reader is left with perhaps a sense of awe, certainly a new perspective on a way of living life, and finally an appreciation of how cruel and senseless the code of the Samurai can be when taken to absurd extremes.  One closes the book with a completely different perspective of the Samurai than the one he had when opening it.	2002-10-30
US	44375481	R3IYAJZXFC2K35	0375724893	742744503	Tokyo Underworld: The Fast Times and Hard Life of an American Gangster in Japan	Books	3	10	12	N	N	An enjoyable yet utterly forgetable romp thru seamy Tokyo.	First off, I believe that this book is definitely worth the price of admission as it is an engaging encounter with a part of urban Japanese society that one rarely has the opportunity to become acquainted with.  Having said that, the book suffers from some structural problems that leave the reader a little bit at loose ends by the time he reaches the end.  This book, although ostensibly about the 'Tokyo Underworld' is actually composed of three distinct threads of discourse.  Thread one is a semi-biographical tale of an extraordinary character from blue-collar New York City who, as a result of a post-world war II stint in the Army lands in and adopts Japan as his home and destiny for the rest of his life.  The book is semi-biographical because the biography seems to be a fusion of a free association telling of a life's story to the author by this character, and the author's own haphazardly researched, yet thoroughly entertaining description of the characters and events that crop up in the course of this story.  The second thread is an off-the-cuff social history of an area of Tokyo that went from urban blight to some of the most renowned and expensive real estate in the world, and is now somewhat equivalent to NYC's 'Great White Way,' or at least what an outsider imagines the GWW should be.  The third thread is an anecdotal description of the notorious Tokyo Yakuza and its alleged massive influence and sway over Japanese society from dark alleyways all the way up to the halls of power.<br />If this sounds like an awful lot of material to fit into one teeny tiny book, it is, and because it is the author has to make some compromises.  The compromises come in the form of cursory treatments of all three subjects, but done in such a glib and insousciant manner that the reader forgives the author his dilatory story line in return for the verbal ride.  This really is not a book about the 'Tokyo Underworld' so much as it is a fun topical read about a colorful 'GaiJin' of questionable character who, against all odds, becomes a notorious and successful figure during a particular era in a discrete section of Tokyo's entertainment district.tionable character who, against all odds, becomes a notorious and successful figure during a particular era in a discrete section of Tokyo's entertainment district.	2002-10-20
US	44375481	RCU39SRTOX0CX	0959789723	69752520	Good Keen Man	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Good Keen Read!	Kiwi Barry Crump is a natural-born raconteur.  Fortunately for New Zealand's pest control program of the 1960's he became, at the ripe old age of seventeen, a hired gun whose task it was to 'cull' the herds of non-native deer, boar and goat whose appetites defoliate the island nation and threaten any number of native animal species.  Such cull hunters had to spend months on end in the Bush with little or no contact with human beings other than the camp partner or partners that were assigned to each hunting territory.  Mr. Crump spends only as much time as necessary describing the gory details of his job (the killing being the least interesting part of it, he says), and flora and fauna in order to concentrate upon the niceties of living and working with a never-ending parade of eccentric and unique characters whose idiosyncracies send Mr. Crump's dry wit and sharp powers of description into overtime.  Oh yes, he also tells about his dogs, and one 'old friend' in particular who stands out as his most reliable and trustworthy companion through thick and through thin.  This book is a quick and easy read, although much too short; one wishes that Mr. Crump would go on forever.  Alas, it is not to be but during the short, sweet, time that the reader spends with the author, he is held completely in thrall.  I definitely recommend this book to anyone who enjoys good story-telling embellished by keen social obversation, don't look for anything deeply philosophical or sappy sentimental, however.	2002-10-20
US	44375481	RGBI5DDGDSKLU	1556133677	466914210	Geronimo's Story of His Life	Books	3	12	16	N	N	No Apache tears from this redoubtable warrior!	I really, really enjoyed reading this book.  Although I am not particularly fascinated by our aborginal American brethren, I do feel sorry for their plight at the hands of my ancestors and find myself in awe of those such as Geronimo who attempted to fight back against the inexorable tide of foreign inmigration to Indian lands.  As the American Indian did not have a written language (excepting the Cherokee, late in their history) it is nigh on impossible to observe the situation between the White man and the Indian from the Indian's perspective.  Thus it is almost like manna from heaven that one prescient being, in the form of S.M. Barrett, prevailed upon Geronimo to recount anything at all about his life story.  This book is disappointingly short because Barrett approached Geronimo toward the end of his life, and because the Indian chief deigned to tell his story on his own terms, in his own way, and only once each time that he began to speak.  Still, what little information Geronimo was willing to impart is vital and spell-binding and utterly fascinating.  Interspersed amongst Geronimo's bits and snippets of incidents in his life and descriptions of Apache cosmography and social structure is background information from the author and editor which help to place the story in the context of the White man's historical account of the Apache wars.  Obviously, such a short and unstructured narrative is wholly inadequate to illuminate a great man's life, but it still allows one to begin to form an opinion about a man who has by now become a legendary chapter in the story of the conquest of the American West.  An especially nice aspect of this book is the dozen or so photographs of Geronimo and members of his extended family.	2002-10-20
US	44375481	R1PNVNDQHFLT4O	0837182530	375055899	When the Going Was Good.	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Seminal Waugh + adventure travel = top flight period piece	This book is a 'Must Read' for the following lot of people:<br />1) Those who have an appreciation for Waugh's fiction.<br />2) Those who have an interest in colonial Great Britain just before the fall of the British Empire when, arguably, it was at its height.<br />3) Those who have traveled well beyond the &quot;It is Tuesday, this must be Bangkok&quot; scheme of things.<br />4) Those who enjoy social satire mixed with dry wit, and enlivened by a wonderful sense of the absurd.<br />5) Connoisseurs of the English language in its written form.<br />'When the Going was Good' is five travel episodes written in a period from 1929 to 1935, as abridged by the author for inclusion in this book.  These episodes range from a casual, meandering cruise of the Mediterranean Sea in 1929 to reportage on the invasion of Ethiopia by Italy in 1935 presaging the Second World War.  In between are the coronation of Emperor Haille Salasie Ras Tafare(the first Rastafarian), some random &quot;Globe-trotting&quot; beginning in Aden running through the Zanzibar coast and then down to the Congo, and finally an attempted trip from British Guyana down through Brazil.<br />Obviously, the really beautiful thing about any book by Evelyn Waugh is the concise, incisive, succint and often surgically precise use of the Queen's English.  What makes these gems particularly precious is that they are set in conditions that were considered laughably backward and dangerously primitive even for the standards of the early part of the 20th century.  Any such journey into the Dark Continent, and into the New World promises to be fraught with dangers and difficulties almost beyond description.  Fortunately for the world of literature these were met by an author who was up to the task of describing these incidents in a way that makes them interesting, funny, and illuminating.  Waugh has an uncanny ablity to use the slings and arrows that life sends one's way as weapons of satire and delight.  Perhaps the most delightful vignette in this book filled with delightful vignettes is his description of his adventures with the well-meaning but misinformed American theological professor who is the leading authority on the Ethiopian form of Christiantiy, and who meanwhile is totally confused by its religous rites.  Their time together takes them from the midst of the royal coronation to a field trip trek through wilderness to that church's holiest shrine in the company of a multi-talented fly by the seat of the pants Armenian chauffeur and an Ethipioan urchin whom they pick up along the way.  Suffice it to say that the material Waugh got in that one trip was of the sort that one could write an entire short book from, and indeed this is just what he did in the novella titled 'Black Mischief.'  Yes, that's correct, Waugh fans, the stuff of some of his books was captured right here on these pages during these travels and herein lies a treasure trove of details that one finds later played out in the novella mentioned above, in 'A Handful of Dust' and even 'Brideshead Revisited.'  Thus, reading these accounts of his travels really helps to bring alive those other stories which you have probably read and wondered about where he got his inspiration.  Finally, for history buffs, one gets to literally live the life of the colonial gentleman in the midst of these pages because Waugh, afterall belonged to the smart set and the smart set made up a significant portion, however small, of the colonial population that ran the British Empire.  So, when Evelyn goes travelling, he doesn't necessarily do it with a backback upon his back trudging to and fro.  No, he has a set of trunks and helpers, and old school ties that lead to introductions which in turn lead to social sitauations that develop into adventures and eventually become fodder for his travelogues.  The point being that because this was the author's life, we get to witness firsthand the life of Imperial Britain as it existed in the African colonies and British spheres of influence.  This is heady stuff and really a wonderful kind of social history that anyone from the avid social voyeur-ethnographic tourist to the fan of the British colonial empire should appreciate.<br />'When the Going was Good&quot; is a book that I can heartily recommend, and one that I took much pleasure from reading.nd British spheres of influence.  This is heady stuff and really a wonderful kind of social history that anyone from the avid social voyeur-ethnographic tourist to the fan of the British colonial empire should appreciate.<BR>'When the Going was Good&quot; is a book that I can heartily recommend, and one that I took much pleasure from reading.	2002-10-19
US	44375481	R938A09375078	4770019483	18300453	Confessions of a Yakuza: A Life in Japan's Underworld	Books	4	33	33	N	N	yakuza j'accuse	Okay, Okay, so the reviews below probably have said it all for me rendering this opinion moot but for the fact that I wanted to boost the star rating of this charming little book: A book that will have you wishing it was twice as long before you are half way through it.  This is ostensibly the autobiography of a dying, retired yakuza boss as told to his attending physician.  An interesting contrivance but not essential to the story at hand which is random, expertly told vignettes describing the life of a really extraordinary character whose life happens to revolve around the Japanese underworld.  Extraordinary I say because this was a boy born into a family comprising the then nascent Japanese middle class: the future \\"sarariman,\\" who nevertheless is so high spirited that he turns his back on what promises to be a life of relative ease (if only through dint of hardwork) for one of adventure.  Extraordinary because the fellow is six feet tall in a world where the average man's height is 5' 4\\"; extraordinary because he is a fellow who is not afraid to buck the rules of a hidebound society, even those of the underground world which embraces him after he has left mainstream society; extraordinary because he has the kind of personality that causes his superiors to become devoted to him and his inferiors to buckle under to his rule when it is time for him to lead, and finally extraordinary because the fellow has the uncanny ability to recite events in a page turning manner.<br />This Yakuza's confession is a look at Japan during its transition into the industrial age; a time when the country's view of itself as the land of the rising sun was just begining to take on the sinister overtones that led to the second world war.  So, while the primary objective is to describe the life of a Yakuza foot soldier and then boss, it also describes and encompasses the lot of contemporary common man who was caught between the exploitative daibatsu labor market that promised nothing more than a subsistance life and the repressive and whimsical powers of the governmental organs whose purpose seems to have been to keep order for the same.  This Yakuza describes a world in which the common man, unprotected by the powers of the land seeks security instead in the context of a web of interconnecting social obligations which protect and sustain him in return for his undying loyalty.<br />Japan has a wonderful tradition of humorous and outrageous autobiographies by such roguish characters that is unknown in Western literature and this book is a really, truly wonderful addition to that venerable line.<br />I recommend this book as not only a quick, light, easy and fun read but also a beautiful pyscho-cultural study of late Meiji era Japan, warts and all.han a subsistance life and the repressive and whimsical powers of the governmental organs whose purpose seems to have been to keep order for the same.  This Yakuza describes a world in which the common man, unprotected by the powers of the land seeks security instead in the context of a web of interconnecting social obligations which protect and sustain him in return for his undying loyalty.<BR>Japan has a wonderful tradition of humorous and outrageous autobiographies by such roguish characters that is unknown in Western literature and this book is a really, truly wonderful addition to that venerable line.<BR>I recommend this book as not only a quick, light, easy and fun read but also a beautiful pyscho-cultural study of late Meiji era Japan, warts and all.	2002-09-28
US	44375481	RJ5GX2KFFBWUN	0870118412	938282362	Return to Tsugaru: Travels of a Purple Tramp	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Tsugaru boogaloo	Osamu Dazai is an award winning author from turn-of-the-century Japan who lived a relatively short, somewhat tortured life before dying in a suicide pact with his mistress.  Although he has a number of original works of literature to his name this book was commissioned as one number in a multi-volume gazetteer showcasing the various islands and areas of Japan.  While I'm sure that the other numbers in this particular set were as dry as toast we are fortunate that Dazai uses this ostensible framework as a pretext to launch what is, in effect, an autobiographical novel.<br />The action takes place within a two week period of time in which the author leaves from his hovel in Tokyo on a walking and rail journey to visit the homes, towns, and friends of his childhood.  Dazai places himself within the context of his native Tsugaru by exposing his various personality quirks to the reader and relating them to vestigial traits handed down to him by the aboriginal and immigrant bloodlines that comprise the populace of the region.  He places himself within contemporary society by graciously and with sly humor, recreating the various meetings, drinking parties, meals and day trips that he shares with his friends and family who remain in his native land.  Each new town, each new meeting places him further and further back into his past until one realizes that he is effectively regressing to infancy and the penultimate meeting with his very first nanny 'Take' who now lives in the farthest most remote corner of the province (his memory).<br />According to the extensive and elucidating introduction, Dazai always claimed this travelogue as a novel, and as such, one realizes that in staking out that territory Dazai effectively transforms a section of geographical map into the psychographic diary of an artist, an individual, and a cultural specimen.  In Return to Tsugaru, Dazai exposes his soul to the gaze of the reader in literature equivalent of 3-D, for in it he expresses himself, his family, friends and His culture.family, friends and His culture.	2002-09-25
