US	44382291	R2B4JXS0FFJ63B	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Many things to different readers	Like many people I read this book in high school. I liked it better than many of the things I was forced to read, but now, decades later, I pick it up again...and discover that it truly is a masterpiece. <br /> <br />The best indication of that comes from scanning the reviews below. Some people see a myriad religious symbols. Others give it an existential interpretation. Some see defeat; others see triumph. Some see an allegory of Hemingway's life. Others see no allegory at all, but rather, a simple tale of a man doing his job with honor and respect. All from a single, short book. Hemingway's genius is that he wrote a story capable of so many interpretations: a story that speaks to readers more on their own terms than his. <br /> <br />So what do I see? Well, again, that reflects who I am. As a Christian, I see the Christian symbols. The old man, Santiago, is clearly a Christ figure. He even has disciples-or (in Hemingway's typical spare manner, *a* disciple (the boy). Even his name, which translates to English as \\"Saint James\\" reinforces this. But Hemingway leaves it to the reader to decide on whose behalf he suffers, and why.  But I am also a marathoner and Ironman triathlete. So, of course, I see something in this book cast in my own mold: a man who endures-who accepts pain as the inevitable cost of pursuing his goal. <br /> <br />The bottom line; whatever your background, I suspect that you'll find something to resonate with in this book. That's what makes it a masterpiece.	2005-08-06
US	44382291	RQWBTJQ8JZGTO	0684859238	378927219	To Have and Have Not (Scribner Classics)	Books	2	9	18	N	N	Mostly for academics	Hemmingway called this his \\"worst novel,\\" and while authors aren't always their own best critics, sometimes they are. Yes this book is Hemmingway. Yes, it has flashes of brilliance. It also has many of his favorite themes: the Gulf of Mexico, tough-talking self-contained men. Bars. Boats. But there's not much to it. <br /> <br />There are two problems. One is the loose-knit plot. Just to give one example: There is a maxim in drama that if you're going to show a gun (or a knife, or whatever) in the first act, you'd better use it in the third. This book opens with Harry Morgan witnessing a gunfight involving a bunch of Cubans who blame him for betraying them and threaten to get him eventually. Morgan eventually has plenty of trouble with Cubans...but they're not the same Cubans, and the threat goes nowhere. I kept waiting for them to come back, but apparently they were just window dressing. Which goes for much of the story. As a period piece on the way people behaved in Depression-era Key West bars (where most of it is set) it has some interest, but as a coherent story, it's seriously lacking. <br /> <br />That would be a minor problem if Morgan were more interesting. The story shows how he, a former cop, is drawn into a string of illegal activities because he sees no other way to keep his beloved boat and support his family. As it progresses, he gets angrier and more bitter, and the story could have worked as the tale of a man beaten down by the Depression and seduced by the lure of making better money than he could on New Deal public-works projects. But from the start, Morgan is utterly immoral. Within 20 or 30 pages, he's contemplating murder, including the murder of a friend who gets in the way. There's no tragic story here of a good man who loses his way, because Morgan is a stone killer at the start of the book-and gets progressively worse. <br /> <br />Bottom line: if you liked Bogie in the movie, you aren't going to like the protagonist of this book. So, unless you're really interested in watching how Hemmingway developed over the course of his career, give this book a pass. That said, if you do want to read the book, this is a handsomely done edition.	2005-08-01
US	44382291	R16GJ2JH3T83N	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Preface to an all-time masterpiece?	This book contains some major surprises, but they're so beautifully set up that they seem inevitable the moment they come. To say more about the plot would be criminal, so this review will be spoiler-free.  <br /> <br />All that really needs to be said is that this is by far the best since book 3. It's long, but the padding that inflated books 4 and 5 isn't present. Instead, Rowling proves that she knows what she's doing, has known all along, and probably has a final volume in store that might elevate the entire series to the level of  (is it sacrilege to say?) Tolkein. I'm serious: it's THAT good. There is action, genuine emotion, strong unflinching morality, and more than a hint that this will all gel into a true masterpiece in book 7. What more can you ask? <br /> <br />People like to say that the series has become increasingly dark. But that gives the wrong impression. This series is by no means dark fantasy, but as Harry grows, he is forced to deal with increasingly adult issues. In book 5, he was a sulky teenager with an irritating tendency to shout at people. Now, he's (mostly) learned to keep his temper in check. He's also grown into an undisputed leader: not a prefect, but captain of the quiddich team-exactly the action-profile that suits him. Except for his grouchy episode in volume 5, he's always been likable; now it's like (again, sacrilege) watching Frodo grow in Lord of the Rings. The Harry of volume 7 could be one of literature's great (and very believable) heroes. <br /> <br />Obviously, though, this book is a waypoint en route to book 7. It reaches a satisfying enough conclusion, but given the slow speed at which these books emerge, I found myself wanting an index. There are innumerable ties to prior volumes, and my middle-aging neurons can't remember the specifics. Rowling doesn't require us to remember them, but the book would be yet another level richer if I did. But that's hardly even a quibble. Future readers will gobble up the entire series the way I once did Lord of the Rings-and it's so well-knit that it's only the long wait between books that makes the details hard to recall. So, hurrah for Rowling: she's writing with an eye to posterity. Meanwhile, read it now. You can always read it again when book 7 appears.	2005-07-24
US	44382291	R7VPOA2YN4XZ7	0399152415	71579227	Hard Truth (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Flawed effort at depth	There's no such thing as a bad Anna Pigeon mystery. But after the triumph of \\"High Country,\\" this one's a bit of a disappointment. <br /> <br />The basic premise is simple. Anna is now in Rocky Mountain Park, where three middle-school-aged girls have gone missing. In the opening chapter, two of them walk out of the backcountry barefoot, terrorized and stripped to their underwear. Clearly, what we're looking at here is the worst of clichs: a sexual psychopath. But the girls' parents are members of a paranoid religious sect and the girls are quickly whisked to the commune before they reveal anything but vague hints.  <br /> <br />Parts of this book owe a lot to Jon Krakauer 's \\"Under the Banner of Heaven,\\" which is a nonfictional account of ultra-conservative, polygamous Mormon sects. But Barr is primarily interested in what can only be called spiritual evil, which Anna and a new friend named Heath face in several possible forms. <br /> <br />In \\"High Country,\\" Barr was also primarily interested in evil, although that time it was the capacity for evil that arises when self-interest is deeply enough challenged. Here she's looking at something else, and the book is considerably less successful. The flaws are several: <br /> <br />1. Although Anna discovers a lot of evil or potential evil, nothing comes of any of these discoveries other than the ones directly related to unmasking the villain. From a pure \\"mystery\\" point of view, that makes sense-they were red herrings-but if Barr wants to write the type of thematically ambitious book she seems to be attempting, she needs to quit dropping plot threads. <br /> <br />2.  Anna's new husband Paul (a sheriff/Episcopalian priest from whom her job has separated her a mere 3 days after their wedding) would make an excellent foil for Anna's examination of these issues, but Barr structures the plot so that the two of them never have an on-camera interaction.  <br /> <br />3. Anna's sister, Molly, would also make a perfect foil forthe discussion of psychopaths and evil, but Anna never calls her. <br /> <br />4. Part of the book is told through the eyes of Heath, an embittered paraplegic. Heath is an interesting character, but keeps referring to one of the girls as \\"the limpet\\" (because the girl initially clings to her) even when she knows  the girl's name. I don't buy that for a moment. Worse, Heath should be used to provide us with an outsider's view of Anna. That occurs initially (and, entertainingly, Heath reacts negatively to Anna) but Barr lets them make peace much too soon. It would have been be better to made the most of the opportunity to see Anna, with all of her strengths and flaws. <br /> <br />Finally, the deepest disappointment is the finish, which is basically your classic psychopath story. There's an extra (and very nasty) twist (involving yet another kind of spiritual evil) but ultimately, it's just another psychopath story because Barr never lets Anna link the various forms of evil into a coherent image. Maybe that's the whole point: there is no link. But if so, it's poorly presented. <br /> <br />Still, there's no such thing as a bad Anna Pigeon mystery. But you might want to wait for the paperback on this one.	2005-06-24
US	44382291	R3IXTX3WTG8QQB	0425199568	764741424	High Country (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Darkly challenging	Nevada Barr is at her best in Western settings, where her characters have room to roam. In this book, she returns to the west, but sets her story in a Novemberish Yosemite, hemmed in by clouds, trapped fog-like, barely above the treetops. A lot of reviewers of the hardback complained about that, but they've obviously never lived in a climate that can produce this kind of weather for two weeks at a crack. I do. It can chill you, right to the soul.  <br /> <br />Which is what this book is all about. The set-up is simple enough: Anna Pigeon, upwardly mobile park ranger, is working undercover in a swank hotel as a waitress, hoping to suss out the fate of four hikers who went missing and are presumably dead. But what this book is really about is evil: the human evil that, like endless November fog, can invade even sacred places like Yosemite; and the spiritual evil to which some people have surrendered more than others, but which is beneath the skin of us all. Opposing this, Barr sets a collection of women of varying degrees of spiritual and emotional innocence (and in some cases, intellectual innocence) and throughout, she uses undercover detective work as a metaphor for the loss and retaining of one's identity in the face of pressures that would make you someone you don't want to be.  <br /> <br />Basically, this is Barr's most ambitious work, and for about 350 pages it works stunningly. In the final 50 pages it comes partially unglued-one of the critical innocence-related plot threads gets dropped, and the behavior of some of the villains seems to have been altogether too convoluted, given their motives. For those reasons, I can't give the book a perfect score.  <br /> <br />Bottom line: This is a very good book. But beware, it's darker than the normal Anna Pigeon fare, and the normally sunny landscapes of Barr's natural world share in the darkness.	2005-06-12
US	44382291	R3VYT4AT95K21V	0618391126	941261274	The Perfect Mile: Three Athletes, One Goal, and Less Than Four Minutes to Achieve It	Books	5	3	5	N	N	The perfect running book	This has been justifiably compared to Seabiscuit. Lovingly researched and written, it tells the tale of three runners' pursuit of the four-minute mile. When I first heard of it, I couldn't see how there could be enough story for 300 pages. Then I read it and found out how mistaken I was. It's actually a trio of stories, each comprised of three parts. The first is the unhappy experiences of the three runners in the 1952 Olympics: experiences that set each on a quest to be the first to break the mile barrier. (Today's mile record is much faster, but modern runners have the advantage of high-tech tracks, shoes, and training techniques unknown to these pioneers.) <br />Part 2 is the tale of the three runners' individual efforts to be the first. Most of us know who succeeded.  Part 3 deals with efforts to get all three onto the same track at the same time in a head-to-head race-the &quot;perfect mile&quot; of the title. Amazingly, 50 years later, all three are still alive, and Bascomb had access to them to tell this wonderful story.<br />That said, non-runners may find too much detail. Me, I'm the coauthor of two running books and am fascinated to learn how these people trained. One, for example, ran 20 quarters at two seconds each slower than his target mile pace, with a quarter-mile recovery. I was pleased to discover that I could do that workout (based on my mile pace, not his!). But he did it every other day for a month! I'd die. <br />This is one of the best running books ever written.	2004-05-20
US	44382291	RZ2O80IRT0MRP	0842332294	321826248	Desecration: Antichrist Takes the Throne (Left Behind No. 9)	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Situational Ethics	In this book, the gloves come off and the Antichrist goes from mean to really mean, parodying every move made on Jesus's own trip to Jerusalem. To my taste, it's far too relentless. In the Garden of Eden, the serpent was subtle. Here, he's surrounded himself with incompetent minions who he keeps assassinating for their incompetence. This book does itself a disservice by portraying the Enemy as stupid. <br />I'm also getting tired of the Tribulation Force smart-mouthing everyone they meet. Apparently, a lot of people find that funny, but if you're on a life-or-death undercover mission, why taunt EVERYONE you encounter? And my Bible says something about loving your enemies, not treating them with contempt. <br />But the main problem with this book is that as the Antichrist turns up the pressure, the Tribulation Force gears up to fight back. Logically, it doesn't all make sense: we have scenes in this book where angels materialize to smite the Force's enemies for them, so why bother with those 50-caliber explosive rifles, especially when the other side has tanks? Instead of shooting, I'd be waiting for the angels. <br />Worse yet are the book's ethics. To me, putting faith into practice involves prayerfully trying to figure out your basic principles, then doing your best (with God's help) to put them into practice. But this book teaches something quite different. Two issues that keep coming up are whether Tribulation Force members should lie to the enemy's minions, and whether they can shoot them. A case can be made for either answer. But part of any sensible person's preparation for an ordeal such as these people face is figuring out their answers. These people don't, and to the extent they have views, they change with the situation. Consider this exchange from p. 274:<br />     &quot;Arms?&quot; Buck said. &quot;... Count me out.&quot;<BR>     &quot;You might change your mind if the GC opens fire.&quot;<BR>     I just might, Buck thought.<br />That comes prominentlyat the end of a chapter, so it's not simply an slip on the part of authors trying to write 12 books in a hurry. It's how they think one of their central characters would react in that situation. And it sounds a lot more like the &quot;if it feels right, do it&quot; attitude that characterizes the New Age, rather than Christianity. <br />If you want a book that better addresses human behavior in the face of apocalyptic events, try Connie Willis's Doomsday Book, a time-travel story centered on the Black Death. The people of that era really did believe the world was coming to an end, and reacted accordingly. It's a secular book (albeit by a Christian author), but I find far more of Christ in it than in this one. And you can get it for well under $10.	2004-03-04
US	44382291	RGLX2ZD702AU7	0842329293	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind No. 7)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Appalling Waste of Trees	This series started strongly enough to get me hooked, but since then it's gotten worse and worse. Or maybe it's just that it keeps doing the same things over and over. <br />This is the second half of what should have been a single volume. (The other half is Assassins). Each book spends hundreds of pages building up to an event that any reader of the series knows will occur-events that the book titles themselves telegraph. In Assassins, it's the assassination of the Antichrist. Here, it's his resurrection and overt possession by Satan. The authors attempt to build suspense by making us wait and wait for the prophesied events to occur. What they actually build is frustration. The Left Behind series is built around the premise that everything John of Patmos saw in the vision recorded in Revelation will come true exactly as he saw it. Therefore, all I have to do is remember a few verses of Revelation to know EXACTLY where these two books are headed. <br />In the hands of a more skillful author, that might not matter. But Assassins and the first 100 pages of this book assume you've never read a mystery novel or watched an episode of, say, Murder She Wrote. A huge chunk of the plot of both books centers around who kills the Antichrist. Assassins gave us two obvious suspects and a face glimpsed in a crowd, who looked like another suspect who is actually miles away. Dorothy Sayers (a fine, Christian mystery writer) would never resort to such an unfair plot trick. Worse, anyone who's ever read a whodunit knows the answer 150 pages before the assassination occurs, and is ready to climb the walls by the time that obvious suspect is confirmed.<br />Somewhere, someone decided that this was to be a 12-volume series. Presumably that was because 12 is a nice, Biblical number. But seven is also a Biblical number, and that would have eliminated the need for massive padding and false suspense. Three is also a Biblical number, and it would have been better yet. If by some miracle you're reading this review and not already hooked on this series, give it a pass. Your pocketbook (and the trees) will thank you. If, like me, you're hooked...well, at least it's good speed-reading practice. Sadly, there's not much to miss if you go too fast.	2004-02-25
US	44382291	R20BPIRLCDVWXG	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Great Premise, Mediocre Execution	This book, like the series it begins, takes a great premise...and fritters it away. The premise is that Biblical prophesies of the end times are true in the most literal possible sense. The opening chapters are good, as millions of Christians are carried to God in the blink of an eye, leaving behind little piles of clothing, rings, watches, false teeth-and driverless cars, planes, and buses. Also good is the way those who remain-the Left Behind of the title-seek to make sense of it all. A few recognize the event for what it is, but most turn to contrived explanations that exclude God: probably just what would indeed happen.<br />Then the story stumbles. It would be better if it were presented as something like Christian science fiction-an extended &quot;what if?&quot; scenario similar to C.S. Lewis's Space Trilogy, or Narnia, or The Great Divorce. Instead, we get sermons on the details of the prophetic interpretation underlying that &quot;what if&quot;-designed to show which details of the scenario the authors believe are predicted by scripture, and which they invented to fill gaps.<br />It doesn't matter whether you agree with the sermons or not. After a while, they kill the narrative in its tracks. Instead of a visceral story of people trying to come to grips with the Rapture, we get the start of a 12-book series, padded with hundreds of pages of sermons. As the series progresses, the plot also degenerates into a boring drone of car chases and narrow escapes. I am seven volumes into it and getting very tired of characters spending all their time running from things.<br />These books are best for Christians seeking an action-adventure alternative to oversexed secular literature, especially if you don't really care that the plotting and characters are somewhat clunky. But beware of using anything more than this, the first book, as an evangelical tool. Your non-Christian friend may be used to better plotting. <br />If you're looking for an action-adventure with a strong Christian character, try Alistair MacLean's Cold War spy novel, The Secret Ways. I don't know whether MacLean, author of Guns of Naverone, was a Christian, but he created an unforgettable Christian character.  <br />Meanwhile, Left Behind gets three stars: four for the premise but only two for the execution.	2004-02-10
US	44382291	R38MEN2KMRO7IT	0345413903	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Classic Delaware with Extra Milo	Let me start by saying that if you like the Alex Delaware series, you're going to like this book. All the elements are there: observant Alex, spinning his theories; the psychologists'-eye view of the universe; adult characters warped by childhood traumas. In addition, the book takes the series onto new ground. More than ever, we see Alex's weaknesses, both through his own eyes as he surveys the damage he's wrought to his relationship with Robin, his long-term love, and through those of his detective friend Milo, who serves as an alternative viewpoint character. We also see Alex contrasted to a superbly caring older psychologist named Bert-a colorful character who sees only magenta, black, and white, and who's appeared in at least one prior book.<br />But I can't give this book five stars, even though I myself am a professional fiction writer who owes a debt to Kellerman. There are two moderately large problems. <br />The first of the large ones is the decision to use Milo as an alternative viewpoint character. A book told entirely from Milo's viewpoint would be very interesting. But this one alternates Alex's first-person point of view with Milo's third-person viewpoint. It's an interesting experiment but inherently doomed. First-person POV weds the reader solidly to a single character. However interesting Milo's POV is (and he's a great viewpoint character), the switch from Alex is jarring. Kellerman is boldly attempting to break free of the mold he's cast for himself, but the mold is too strong.<br />The second problem is the Murder Book of the title. Other reviews have explained what it is, so I won't repeat. Suffice it to say that it's an extremely indirect attempt to communicate a message to Milo, via Alex. But it always felt like artificial-too much like a story in which a dying character, instead of naming his killer directly, reveals it in code. Kellerman needed to make me believe that the book's author had no option but to speak so indirectly. I didn't buyit. <br />Still, Kellerman is always a good read. He's an astute observer of culture, behavioral quirks, and the dark side of contemporary LA. Ultimately, it didn't matter that much that I didn't care about the villain's identity. In a book like this, it's the trip that matters, not the destination, and the trip wasn't bad at all. Four stars.	2003-10-23
US	44382291	R2XI351N6303RB	0380816849	168669536	Dead North: An Alaska Mystery	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Alaskan Highway Travelogue/Mystery	I sometimes think that Sue Henry should have been a travel writer. The best of her books mix murder with intricately described journeys in which learning the details of the trip itself are half of the reason for reading the book. If you're not interested in the trip, you're probably not going to be interested in the book. That is probably the reason for the hot-and-cold reviews this one has been receiving--especially because this book's topic, an RV journey up the Alaskan Highway, is considerably less exotic than the dogsledding stories that built the author's reputation.<br />Because they mix travel with mystery, Sue Henry's books tend to be relatively gentle stories in which pleasant but not deeply drawn characters provide amiable companionship for the armchair traveler. (If you want heart-pounding thrillers, read Dean Koontz.) Nor are they complex Agatha Christie - style puzzles. Oh yes, there's always a villain, sometimes a pretty cruel one, but Henry seems to be one of those people who genuinely likes most of her fellow humans, and she does not delight in giving readers a whole roomful of unsympathetic characters from which to attempt to identify the villain. <br />So is this book any good? That depends mostly on how interested you are in learning about the Alaskan Highway and RVing, because the reviewers below are correct in pointing out that the book is chuck-full of details that have no relevance to the plot. Nor are you going to find deep insights into human nature. Even the villain is a bit of a stock psychopath, although he does have other motivations. <br />The biggest flaw involves the plot machinations Henry needs to use in order for her characters to repeatedly cross paths as they move up the highway by disparate modes of transportation (RV, hitchhiking, pickup truck, bicycle, 18-wheeler) that should have them traveling at quite different paces. Also, none can be allowed to realize that anytime they want, they can separate themselves from this dangerous, traveling circus simply by holing up for a couple of nights as everyone else moves north. <br />Still, this is a fun read, and I'm already partway through the next book in the series. Fasten you seatbelts and enjoy the Alaskan Highway!	2003-07-30
US	44382291	R3F2QQRSLSSUWV	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Still Top of the Heap	As I write this, more than 3,500 people have already posted on-line reviews of book. That's got to be an even more dramatic record than the first day's staggering 5 million sales. What I've seen of the reviews fall into two camps: \\"Wow, more Harry Potter!!!\\" .... and ... \\"Too much Harry Potter (too long and disjointed).\\" Both are right. Neither distracts from a 5-star review. <br />This is thematically and emotionally the most complex of the books to date. So what if it reads like the middle of a longer work-that's exactly what it is. It answers a few puzzles (why aren't Harry's parents also hanging around with Nearly Headless Nick and the other ghosts?), raises new puzzles, visits old friends (and enemies), and introduces new ones. Rowling has the courage to let her character go through a difficult period as a surly teenager and takes the opportunity to drive home a message on the importance (and difficulty) of controlling one's temper. If her core audience gets the message, why complain that the learning process makes Harry a bit less enjoyable company than he's been before? This is a book whose author hasn't forgotten what it feels like to be a teenager.<br />There are a few quibbles. The first 200 pages are slow. The action doesn't really get going until we get back to Hogwarts and meet the new Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher. There's a subplot regarding Hagrid that comprises two chapters and has only the most indirect bearing on anything else (although I suspect that Rowling is likely to return to it in book 6 or 7). But those really are just quibbles. This book might have been more streamlined if Rowling's editors had been more assertive, but it still proves that nobody can beat her at this type of fantasy world-building. <br />Bring on Book 6!	2003-07-15
US	44382291	R1QODYVG9VTGGF	1891369288	295667549	The Runner and the Path: An Athlete's Quest for Meaning in Postmodern Corporate America	Books	4	5	5	N	N	It's Not About the Running Shoes	&quot;What would I do if I knew I only had one day left to live?&quot; writes Dean Ottati in a key passage of this book (p. 223). The answer he says, is that he would start by going out to run. &quot;During that run, I would smell each smell, the roses and the horse droppings, with equal joy. I would listen to the leaves rustling in the trees, and I would watch the red-winged blackbirds against bright yellow mustard flower . . . . I would run up the Mauler [hill] one last time. And I would thank it for remaining such a consistent challenge over the years.&quot;<BR> <BR>Those sentiments are the core of this book. It's not about running, it's about being a runner. The distinction is critical. I am a runner and author of running books. Ottati is a runner and has written a book that tells of how running has helped to shape his life. It's a good book: in places a great one. There are insights here about the importance of various aspects of our lives: hill running, career, family, corporate negotiations. I fluctuate between a four-star and five-star review, but some of the corporate lessons seem a bit obvious. But maybe that's just me...I abandoned that career path decades ago-about the time that I myself took up running, and my interest in corporate America is inherently limited.<br />Highly recommended to anyone struggling to make sense of their priorities.<br />Especially if you also happen to be a runner.	2003-07-15
US	44382291	R3TJAXRV5RXTRC	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Series Finale???	As I read this book, the thought that kept intruding that Tony Hillerman is no longer young (he'll be 78 this year). I strongly suspect that this book, which comes so strongly on the heels of  &quot;The Wailing Wind,&quot; may well be his last. <BR>  <BR>   Other reviewers have noted that this book adds nothing new to our understanding of the central characters. But it does leave them with fewer unresolved issues than prior books. Rather than being the cynical money-making effort depicted in some reviews below, this book appears to be a parting gift from an aging author who wanted to give the series a more satisfying closure than &quot;The Wailing Wind&quot; had left us with.<BR>     <BR>That said, it's not a great stand-alone book. The first chapter, which introduces the retiring CIA agent who will soon become the murder victim, is painfully cliched, seemingly cobbled together from bad spy movies and political thrillers. The mystery is obvious (partly because huge chunks of it are told from the villains' perspective), and except for a little bit of magic with maps, Leaphorn and Chee get no chance to show off their detecting brilliance. The setting, in southern New Mexico's &quot;boot heel&quot; region, is rendered generically, without the detail for which Hillerman is famous-as though he'd written it from maps and memory. Plot elements never connect, and there are gaps in the police procedure (most notably involving a car, which is missing in one chapter but has been fingerprinted in another chapter, with no mention that I could find of its being discovered).<BR>     <BR>The cobbled-together feel of this book, its lack of complexity, and its short length make me suspect that Hillerman's health is failing and that he rushed it to completion while he still could. Hopefully I'm wrong. Regardless, readers of the series this book should save this book for last-it's merely an epilog to a long and honorable series. If you've read all the books, this one is a must read. Ifyou've not, you'll be disappointed. <BR>     <BR>And if I'm right, thanks Tony, for making the effort to give us a parting gift.	2003-07-15
US	44382291	R21CLDZA9GMLXZ	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	2	8	12	N	N	About as subtle as a cream pie	As with his last several novels, this book reveals a John Grisham struggling to reinvent himself rather than simply retreading the legal thrillers that made him famous. My hat is off to him for the attempt. But literary novels require subtlety, and this one packs all the subtlety of a pie in the face, aimed at an easy target: the enormous legal fees attainable by the upper echelon of lucky litigators.<br />It's the story of Clay Carver, a burned-out public defender who finds a not-completely-ethical means of striking it rich. Very rich. Clay shoves his qualms aside and suddenly finds himself ogling private jets and other upper-crust trappings he supposedly despises. Suspense derives from the question of whether Clay's fortunes will continue to rise or whether the entire thing will crash-and if so, how badly. <BR> <BR>The seduction of a young lawyer by riches is a common theme in Grisham's novels, and still a good one. Unfortunately, the author's fondness for the clockwork machinations of the law and lawyers, which serves him well in his thrillers, induces him to distance himself too much from his characters. Here, that's a fatal mistake. Clay could be interesting, but Grisham never allowed me to care about him, especially because the book is full of &quot;cringe&quot; moments in which Clay does something so terribly wrong-headed I had to close the book and think about something else before reading another chapter.<br />And yet, somehow, Grisham kept me coming back. I can't quite figure out how, but that's why the book gets two stars rather than one. (I'd give it 2 1/2 if that were an option.) Also, as I watched Grisham decry the lure of lucre, I couldn't help but think about how much he himself has made on books and movies. Could Clay be a stand-in for an author who really wants to make better use of his massive bully pulpit? THAT would be in interesting story. Especially if Grisham ever learns subtlety. Because the man really does have something to say.	2003-02-10
US	44382291	R2G9QJZGS2OK5F	0864426860	318727899	Lonely Planet Iceland, Greenland & the Faroe Islands	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Top-notch guide for adventurous travelers	Since 1999, I have been to Iceland twice and Greenland twice, for a total of seven weeks--extremely unusual for an American. Those trips included extended excursions by bicyle, backpack, and cross-country ski, with some bus excursions as well. Throughout, this book was my primary guide. I found it reliable and an extremely good source of inspiration, particularly for hikes. <br />I cite my own experience because I clearly fall into the target readership for this book. Car travelers aren't the intended audience, and may be disappointed. This book presumes (as do I, even at age 49) that the best way to see Iceland is afoot, a-pedal, or on one of that nation's wonderful backcountry bus routes. If you're not prepared to carry a backpack onto or off of the buses, you'll probably prefer another guidebook.<br />My main quibble is with the maps, which were hard to locate when I wanted them, and not very detailed. But you can get great maps in Reykjavik, so that's only a minor problem.	2003-01-19
US	44382291	R2QOVN1M9JGDFY	055357227X	357027775	The Web	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Slow but not without interest	This is an extremely quiet, moody book that builds interesting characters in an interesting setting, but doesn't allow much to happen to them. It was my first Kellerman book, and despite my 2-star review, it won't be my last. Ideally, I'd have given it 2.5 stars. It's better than two, but not up to three. <br />Don't read this book for the mystery. The story deals with an extremely shocking crime, but somehow, the answer to, \\"Who done it?\\" is a big, \\"Who cares?\\" I think the problem is that the shocking mystery has an extremely pedestrian solution, producing an imbalance between the murder and its solution. That imbalance-which you can sense coming 100 pages in advance--pulls most of the tension out of the plot.<br />Far more interesting are the book's sub-themes. Kellerman-presumably because of his psychological training-is an astute observer of the dysfunctional manners in which people often interact. And this book is full of dysfunctional relationships, ranging from an embattled couple to an oddly disengaged father/daughter relationship. All of this plays eventually into the finale, but I found watching these people in action to be much more interesting than wondering about what secrets they were hiding.<br />One note, though, struck badly-not falsely, but irritatingly, in a way I fear might be characteristic of the series. Kellerman's psychologist-detective, Alex, is always addressing other characters by their first names, as in: \\"I don't think I can do that, Bill,\\" or \\"Why do you ask, Jo?\\" That type of first-name engagement helps the reader keep abreast of who's speaking, and it rings true for the psychologist character, but it feels very aggressive. It's as though Alex, by the false intimacy of calling everyone by their first names, is always trying to provoke them. Or maybe he's continuously \\"shrinking\\" them. Whatever the reason, after a while I wanted someone to stand up to Alex and make him stop doing it. Since he's otherwise one of the nicer-guy heroes in the detective genre, it's a particularly irritating habit.	2002-12-24
US	44382291	R1CMPGQD7876PN	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Best Since Jurrasic Park	Michael Crichton has been writing the same story for much of his career: Scientists meddle with Something Best Left Alone. That Something escapes, life as we know it is threatened, and the hero battles greedy corporations who think they can reestablish control and make billions by stuffing the genie back in its bottle.<br />Theres nothing wrong with recycling this old theme. Even the supposed original, \\"Frankenstein,\\" echoes the Greek myth of Icarus, whose wax wings melted when he flew too close to the sun. The success of such stories depends on the cautionary tale they attempt to tell, and this ones target is a good one: nanotechnology. Better, Crichton avoids the \\"gray goo\\" cliché in which runaway nanomachines eat up everything in their paths, like a plague of molecular locusts. Here, the real culprit is computer-driven nanotechnology that is capable of evolving so quickly that nobody can understand it, let alone control it.<br />To enjoy a Crichton novel, you have to be able to accept certain things as givens:<BR>     <BR>1. The story is a vehicle for the science. This one must contain at least 50 pages of exposition about computers, nanotechnology, and biology. Crichton would have made a good science writer.<br />2.  The story will start at the beginning and proceed in sequential manner (except, in this case, for a brief preface). \\"Prey\\" doesnt really get rolling for about 100 pages. <br />3. Characters are not Crichtons strong point. Here the protagonist is better developed than most of Crichtons leadsbut then he undercuts his \\"sensitive male\\" characterization by dashing off into the desert when the plot requires him to do so, risking his life repeatedly and never once questioning what will happen to his children if he dies. Too bad: there would have been a lot more tension if the hero had been more conflicted.<br />4.  Crichton has always been weak when it comes to endings. \\"Andromeda Strain\\" was a great book, but the ending is a severe anticlimax, and the same can be said about \\"Sphere,\\" \\"Congo,\\" and several others. I suspect that Crichton, a scientist at heart, has trouble venturing too far afield from reality. That makes for good near-future science fiction conceptsand poor endings.<BR>That said, this books ending is a pleasant surprise. Theres plenty of action, and a resolution that fits appropriately into the story buildupeven if there are a few disconcerting moments when you realize that youre seeing a movie outline  more than a book.<br />Bottom line: if you like Crichton, youll like this book. Conversely, if you dont like this book, dont buy any of his others.	2002-12-23
US	44382291	R2ICOYAB0R6CXF	0517221047	320922870	Three Complete Novels: "G" Is for Gumshoe, "H" Is for Homicide, and "I" Is for Innocent	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Superb Intro to a Great Series	This book combines three of the best of the alphabet series in a single volume. Better yet, the stories form a reasonably coherent trilogy, with recurring themes of Kinsey's rise and fall at California Fidelity, significant changes in landlord Henry Pitt's life, and Kinsey's own crisis of confidence. I can't say that \\"H,\\" \\"I,\\" and \\"J\\" wouldn't have made an equally good trilogy, but this is a good combo.<br />If, by any chance, you've not previously encountered Grafton or her heroine, Kinsey Millhone, this book should also be a great introduction. More than many fiction genres, mystery is a \\"writer's\\" genre-i.e., one that prizes well-drawn prose that brings settings and characters vividly to life. Partly that's because the field has a tradition of using mystery as an excuse for exploring unique cultures or settings (witness the success of Tony Hillerman's Navajo books, or Dick Francis's numerous forays into British horseracing). But also, it's easy to bury clues in the details of culture watching or the quirks of characters who may or may not be suspects.<br />Sue Grafton is one of the best of these writers currently active in the field-and these are three of her best books.	2002-09-03
US	44382291	RN6PTTAGA0X53	0061030643	751205471	The Associate	Books	2	0	0	N	N	OK for Beach or Airplane	Philip Margolin's books rarely demand much from the reader, but despite their flaws, they somehow manage to keep the pages turning. I picked this one up in an airport and finished it two flights later.<BR> <BR>That said, I can't recommend this book as anything more than an adequate potboiler. Margolin always seems more interested in the mechanics of the legal system than in developing believable characters or dialog, and in this book his trademark courtroom duels are relegated to the sideline. Even action sequences in which violence explodes unexpectedly fail to engage-a recurring flaw in Margolin's books, which are written on the intellectual level, rather than the visceral. If you don't believe me, read any of Alistair MacLean's books prior to Bear Island to see how a master can draw you so thoroughly into the action that the visceral trumps the intellectual.<br />Still, there are times when you don't want to be too thoroughly engaged in the action. I wouldn't want to read a Dean Koontz thriller when I'm relaxing on a beach or camping in remote woodlands. Books such as this one are perfect for occasions when you want something, but not &quot;too much.&quot;	2002-09-03
US	44382291	R1J32QN6VT6HND	0449221512	209550266	I Is for Innocent (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Best of Show!	There are no bad books in Sue Grafton's alphabet series, only varying degrees of good. That said, the series, to date, reached its peak somewhere around &quot;F&quot; or &quot;G&quot; and held its top form at least through &quot;L.&quot; This one is my pick for best of the lot-which is saying a good deal. The book features a temporarily subdued Kinsey (still smarting under a career setback encountered in a prior book), the usual cast of rich snobs, an unusually intriguing puzzle whose vital clues I spotted but nevertheless failed to piece together, some unusually likeable supporting characters, and a lot of Santa Barbara (oops Theresa) atmosphere.<br />Next time I point friends at the series, this is where I'll tell them to start. Highly recommended.	2002-09-03
US	44382291	R3L3OXTXC1S4VW	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	1	5	N	N	This Book Just Won the Hugo	On September 1, this book became the surprise winner of the Hugo Award for best novel of 2001. Given what books it beat out for that award, that's a high recommendation indeed. I myself haven't read it yet, but it's now high on my list. Amazon.com forces me to give it some number of stars, and there's rarely a Hugo winner that doesn't deserve five, hence the recommendation.	2002-09-03
US	44382291	R1CSOXYV04JJLT	0449003795	469684331	"P" is for Peril (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 16)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"P" is not for "Puzzle"�and never was	Late in this book, Grafton's detective, Kinsey Millhone, describes herself as \\"Philip Marlowe in drag.\\" She could equally well have said Sam Spade.<br />These books are not intended to set elegant puzzles. Their function is to walk us around Southern California while providing dry observations we readers wish we'd had the wit to articulate ourselves. It rings wonderfully true, for example, when Kinsey describes a neighborhood as looking as though it had been hit by an explosion at a Toys `R Us store. The mystery is simply the vehicle by which Grafton maneuvers Kinsey into situations in which her comments lead us, however briefly, to look at our world and its inhabitants it in a slightly different light. Measured by that yardstick, this book is as successful as any in the series-at least as reliable as Kinsey's much-loved VW Beetle.<br />Like the Beetle, these books are also period pieces. Grafton started writing them in the 1980s, but real-world time has progressed about five times faster than \\"Kinsey time.\\" This book is set in 1986, an era that an increasing number of people don't recall accurately. Kinsey can't call for help on a cell phone, for example, because cell phones didn't exist. For the same reason, she can't speed her detective work with web searches.<br />Grafton has always downplayed the differences between Kinsey's era and the present, but the time may have come to reverse that approach. By 1986, Kinsey could be writing her reports on a computer. Fax machines are looming, and modems were moving from 300 baud to the incredibly fast speeds of 1200 or 2,400 baud. It might be interesting for future books to have Kinsey struggle with the degree to which to \\"modernize\\" with technology that today looks unbelievable clunky.<br />Meanwhile, this is a good book. Sure, the ending is abrupt, but all of Grafton's endings are abrupt.  The killer is clear, the motive is clear, and Grafton's quick endings leave room for wry imaginings of how Kinsey manages to clean up the messes in which she inevitably lands.<br />Bottom line: this is a solid addition to the series-although I do wonder if 1980s California can provide enough cultural observations to support enough books to fill out the rest of the alphabet.	2002-07-29
US	44382291	R3DZVLAPTYU94S	0449223612	595466515	N Is for Noose (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	"N" is for "No-No" in the ending	\\"N\\" maroons Kinsey in a fictional town on the east side of the Sierra Nevada (note to Grafton: it's \\"Sierra,\\" not \\"Sierras\\"). Instantly a fish out of water, Kinsey learns about small towns at their gossipy worst while realizing (as usual in a Grafton mystery) that even the nice people might be nasty at heart. We don't lack for suspects--although in the first half of the book, we do lack for a crime--and there's a scene midway through that is definitely NOT for the squeamish.<br />I generally love Grafton's sly observations, but this book is a little too hard on small-town folk. A bigger problem is the ending. Kinsey is uncharacteristically slow at narrowing the suspect list; I was way ahead of her. But worse, the solution comes down to a convoluted code written by someone who had no reason to leave a coded message. You only do that with things like safe combinations or computer passwords that you don't dare write plainly, but are afraid of forgetting. Here, there was no risk that the code-writer would forget the information: and therefore no reason to write it down. Instead, the code exists only so Grafton can tantalize Kinsey (and the reader) with it: a serious plotting error.<br />I'd give \\"N\\" 2 1/2 stars if that were an option. Because it's Kinsey, it gets three.	2002-05-29
US	44382291	R3NKO0VP3UHN48	0380724073	636061578	Sleeping Lady: An Alex Jensen Mystery (Alex Jensen Alaska Mysteries)	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Good setting and characters but the plot cheats!	Having lived in Anchorage, I love much about Sue Henry's Alaska mysteries, which evoke the land and its people with obvious affection. But this is the weakest link in the series. <br />First of all, Henry is at her best when dealing with dogsledding, but here, dogs play little role. More importantly, though, this story lies to the reader. In an attempt to set a red herring, Henry allows a viewpoint character to see and do things the character (who has knowledge not yet available to the reader) wouldn't actually see and do. Sorry to be vague, but I don't want to disclose the secret. I went back and reread the vital section, though, and the book does indeed cheat. <br />I'm tempted to penalize this book by giving it a single star, but the setting, characters, and 99 percent of the story are at least 3 1/2-star material-and at least Henry tried to do something different, even if it doesn't work. Fans of the series will want to read this book; first-timers would do better to start with \\"Murder on the Ididerod.\\"	2002-05-29
US	44382291	R31AGLD9VB057F	0156001454	648977788	Winterdance: The Fine Madness of Running the Iditarod	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Mark Twain reincarnated	Gary Paulsen must have studied his Mark Twain. Like his 19th Century mentor, he's combined self-depricating humor, adventure, astute observation, personal honesty, and impecable comic timing into a page-turning mix that reads so easily you don't realize how hard this stuff is to write. The chapter \\"Major Wrecks\\" alone is worth the price of admission. Read that chapter aloud to a friend and find out just how perfectly he's set up each and every line.<br />Also (lest the reference to Twain be offputting to modern readers), this book is written in a concise, modern style: not a 19th Century retread, but the way Twain would be writing if he were alive today. I can think of no higher praise. This is, quite simply, one of the finest adventure travel books ever written.	2002-05-29
US	44382291	R263NP7U3K5V0P	0425183750	447087218	Blood Lure (Anna Pigeon)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Disappointing	This book starts well, then implodes. As always, Barr plays to her strengths: the delightfully grouchy Anna Pigeon, a good cast of supporting players, and the backdrop of another of North America's great national parks: Glacier/Waterton. The bear DNA studies that form the heart of the story are real-after the book was published, in fact, they generated important new findings (such as the fact that the park may have twice as many bears as was previously believed).<BR> <BR>What doesn't work well is the mystery. Partly, that reflects an old problem with this type of story: the reader knows there's murder afoot-otherwise there's no reason for the book-but Anna thinks she's on an assignment that has nothing to do with law enforcement. That means the reader is busy tabulating clues before Anna has any reason to recognize that anything odd is going on. But even when murder does occur, Barr chooses to blind her detective to the obvious identity of the murder weapon, even after practically rubbing the reader's nose in it. That's frustrating. Equally frustrating is the fact that the high-action finale is drained of much of its tension for those of us who've long ago figured out major pieces of what's going on.<br />Barr's numerous fans (of which I'm one) will enjoy 95 percent of this book and shrug off the rest. Her finales are always hit and miss. Newcomers should start with \\"Blind Descent,\\" which works much better on all levels.<br />One other note: Barr should force her publisher to provide better maps. In a book in which half the action occurs by hiking north, south, east, or west, it is inexcusable to be given a map on which the top of the page is west.	2002-05-29
US	44382291	RFDWJ0IS2UPWS	0812566785	376773427	Rainbow Mars	Books	1	6	8	N	N	Mixture of Old (Wonderful) and New (Lackluster)	Larry Niven has written some wonderful books featuring some of the best ideas in science fiction. This book is half-and-half. The wonderful part contains a handful of delightful short stories from his 1976 book &quot;Flight of the Horse,&quot; now sadly out of print. The not-so-wonderful is an almost unreadable new novella set in the same universe. Mars is popular these days, and Niven should have been able to do a smash-bang job of working it into the &quot;Horse&quot; universe. Instead, he wrote a lot of dismal dialog and murky exposition with none of the life of the older stories (which I eagerly reread, confirming that they've stood the test of time).<br />I could give this a mixed review: a compromise between five stars for the old material, and one star for the new. But save your money and look for a used copy of &quot;Flight of the Horse.&quot; And shame on Niven's publisher for not just reissuing a great older book and leaving well enough alone.	2002-05-29
US	44382291	R8XEC4TUMELBP	0380978369	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	2	7	10	N	N	Complex effort that left me cold	\\"Bones of the Earth\\" is nothing if not ambitious. And for dino buffs, it's a lot better than the latest \\"Jurassic Park\\" installment. Unfortunately, the dinosaur scenes are the best part-perhaps because they're the most comprehensible. The rest is a convoluted exercise in time loops and causality in which near-future scientists are given the secret of time travel (by whom and why is a major secret) but are inexplicably limited to using it only for the study of dinosaurs. The book mixes themes of predestination and existentialism with a mind-blowingly time-looped story of lust, love, and betrayal that ultimately left me too confused to care.<br />Overall, the theme seems to be an assertion of the value of acquiring scientific knowledge (and by implication, other life experiences) even though death will ultimately rob us of our earthly gains. \\"Bones of the Earth\\" ups that ante with the threat of a fate worse than death: being time-looped into nonexistence, so that all you are and all you've learned never existed in the first place. For scientists, that would also mean the undoing of all their research. Horrors indeed!<br />The idea is more interesting than the execution. There are too many poorly defined characters to keep track of (along with their past and future selves), and villains (fundamentalist Christians opposed to time travel) whose motivations simply don't stand scrutiny. The payoff, when it comes, isn't worth the wait. The dino chapters are OK. For the rest, wait for Swanick's next book.	2002-05-29
US	44382291	R38SOIFCEA935F	055326981X	408108623	The Practice Effect (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful lighthearted fun	Drama critics have long known that comedy is harder to direct and to perform than tragedy. The same goes for literature: being even slightly off the mark is all that it takes to ruin the endeavor. In science fiction and fantasy it's even tougher to write good humor because the reader first has to understand the &quot;rules&quot; of the culture or technology in which the story is set--and there's nothing worse than a joke that has to be explained. Connie Willis can pull it off, Robert Sheckley can pull it off...and so can David Brin.<br />This book is a treasure because it takes on that hardest of all SF writing tasks and hits a good solid home run. Read slowly to savor it...or better yet, do as I did and read it aloud to a family member who also appreciates good comic timing.	2002-05-27
US	44382291	R165M3PFC7HPGD	0345435281	796467564	Vitals	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Ambitious effort, but...	Greg Bear is a writer of considerable talent and vision--one who is always on my Hugo/Nebula \\"watch list.\\" This book doesn't make that grade, but it's not as bad as most people seem to think. It does, however, have some major problems.<br />On the positive side, what Bear has done is to produce a theory (infectious, mind-altering bacteria) that can truly support an X-File - magnitude conspiracy. Cudos to him for figuring out a way to do this. Unfortunately, I didn't buy that premise, even though Bear adds an afterward in which he cites scientific underpinnings for it. More importantly from a storytelling perspective, the resulting conspiracy appears to be unbeatable. That causes plotting difficulties and is (probably) the reason for the muddled ending. Bear appears to have written himself into a corner.<br />As for the story's darkness, mixed viewpoint storytelling, and less-than-perfect protagonist, don't read it if that's not your cup of tea. (I suspect that this book would have fared better if it hadn't had the misfortune to come out shortly after  9-11, when such a dark story is more disturbing than it would have been beforehand.) Overall, I would give this book three stars but for one other problem. It starts out being about life extension, segues into mind control...and never returns. There are complex reasons in the logic of the story why this occurred, but it's still unsatisfying.	2002-05-27
US	44382291	R2VUVKP58Q4CTS	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Pleasant visit with old friends	Reading Tony Hillerman's latest Leaphorn/Chee mystery is like sitting around a campfire with old friends. It's wonderful to catch up on each other's lives, share a few chuckes, and recall why you enjoy being together. But it's not the best way to meet new people.<br />Hillerman's books have always been more about Navajo lore and the vanishing-point vistas of a lightly populated land than about solving crimes. In the process, we've come to really care about Leaphorn and Chee, and the people and places that define their lives. This book has the feel of being the penultimate in the series--not quite the end, but close to it. The real question isn't who killed the gold miner whose body is discovered in the opening chapter; it's whether Chee will ever be truly happy, and whether Leaphorn will settle gracefully into retirement. Nor does Hillerman really have anything new to say about the Navajos; he's said it beautifully in more than a dozen prior books.<br />If you already love Leaphorn and Chee and the Southwest, you don't need my urging to read this book. If you're new to  Hillerman, start with an earlier book in the series. Then come back for a nice campfire chat with your new, old friends.	2002-05-23
US	44382291	RFBO80KEK5MEF	0375702105	146450130	T. Rex and the Crater of Doom	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good KT History for the Non-Specialist	The title of this book says everything you need to know about its literary style. It's a fun romp through one of the leading scientific controversies in modern geology and paleontology, told by one of the central figures. It is not a scientific treatise, but a book of scientific history, detailing the process by which geochemical &quot;detectives&quot; sorted through Nature's red herrings in the attempt to track down the object that murdered the dinosaurs. It's also a case study in the philosophical debate between catastrophe theories and gradualism in a science so marked by its long debate with certain groups of religious conservatives that it developed a reflexive antagonism to any suggestion that some events might not have taken place over &quot;geologic&quot; time scales. A world-altering meteor impact was not something the gradualists wanted to discover.<br />      Alvarez clearly believes that the discovery of a 65-million-year-old impact crater on Mexico's Gulf Coast has pretty much resolved the question of what killed the dinos, and he's written his book to an audience of like-minded folk. If you're on the fence, the book might convince you. If you're in the opposing camp, it won't-nor is that the book's purpose. Rather, Alvarez is out to tell a good story of the progress of science. If, along the way, he teaches a bit of geology and convinces a few readers that geochemistry and geophysics are &quot;cool,&quot; so much the better. Give this book to a high school kid with an interest in science-but read it yourself, first.	2001-12-29
US	44382291	RMTHX97AAKLW0	0380723638	202126623	Ill Wind (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Great setting, weak villain	Mesa Verde is fun. Anna Pigeon is a fun character, even if she's a bit grumpy. Her FBI counterpart is even more fun-I liked him the moment he showed up in &quot;A Superior Death,&quot; even if Anna then found him to be a bit of a buffoon. But somehow the pieces of this story don't come together as well as they do in the best Anna Pigeon mysteries, such as &quot;Firestorm,&quot; &quot;A Superior Death,&quot; &quot;Blind Descent,&quot; and &quot;Deep South.&quot; Maybe Barr was still learning her art when she wrote this one; the problem is that the villain isn't as well developed as the setting or the Anna Pigeon character (she had the same problem, in fact, in her first book, &quot;Track of the Cat&quot;). Anna, the park, the FBI guy, even her long-distance relationship with her sister Molly-all of these upstage the plot that's supposed to bind them together, producing the odd result of a book that's undercut by its greatest strengths. Still, there's no such thing as a bad Anna Pigeon book: just varying degrees of good. This one's at the lower end of the range.	2001-08-21
US	44382291	R8A2VUBBU1T67	0380725835	629097113	Endangered Species (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Marking time between &quot;Firestorm&quot; and &quot;Deep South&quot;	This story's a bit of a mess. There are too many characters to keep straight, none of the great set pieces such as the motorboat chase in &quot;A Superior Death,&quot; and a distinctly &quot;who cares&quot; attitude about the eventual unmasking of the villain. Just as Cumberland Island is a backwater in the National Park System, this book is a backwater in the Anna Pigeon series. Anna spends the story trying to figure out what to do about a difficult personal relationship, and Barr spends it as a combination of revisiting old ground  (fire fighting) and gearing up for a serious foray into the southern parks. Read &quot;Firestorm&quot; for a better story of fire fighting, and skip to &quot;Deep South&quot; for a better-developed take on the southern parks. Still, even a ho-hum Anna Pigeon mystery is good enough to keep the pages turning.	2001-08-21
US	44382291	R2TQ3YQFV2G6UC	0380725827	3388802	Firestorm (Anna Pigeon)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Makes you want to grab a pulaski and hit the fire line...	Anna Pigeon is a jack of all trades. Not only is she a park ranger with law enforcement training, but she's also an emergency medical technician and a trained firefighter. One wonders a bit how much time it took her to obtain all that training, and whether that's the norm for National Park employees, but quibbles aside, this is a superb book. Barr uses the drama of a fire to isolate her cast of characters in classic locked-room mystery fashion, then cuts them off from the outside world while Anna races against time to figure out who she can trust before she becomes the next victim. If there's a flaw it lies in the fact that a vital clue is a bit too obvious. I can't say more without giving away too much, but people who've read lots of mysteries will probably figure out part of what's going on simply from the way the story is constructed. Firestorm, however, is really a story of fire, firefighters, and the southern Cascades in the vicinity of Mt. Lassen National Park, and minor imperfections in the mystery barely detract from it at all. Highly recommended.	2001-08-21
US	44382291	RIBCJJ28Q2380	0380728265	707245221	Blind Descent (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great story of a real &quot;underworld&quot;	I really liked this book. The caving scenes are superb, Barr's not afraid to introduce plot developments that most writers would never consider, and she's willing to let suspicion fall on sympathetic characters that the reader (and park ranger Anna Pigeon) would rather classify as above doubt. Then, just when you begin to wonder if Barr can pull off an entire novel in the claustrophobic confines of a cave-even if it's one of the biggest caves in the world-she moves back above ground for a stint in Anna's beloved desert. Don't expect to be able to sit down 90 percent of the way through the book and deduce who's the villain, however. Some of the Anna Pigeon books present puzzles that can be solved in that manner, but this one is more of a police procedural, masquerading as a locked room (well, OK, locked cave) mystery. There's the classic, limited pool of suspects, lots of information about each one, an assortment of people who are clearly hiding things-and not enough information to unmask the villain until Anna herself is able to do so directly. You may be able to guess who did it, but you won't be sure until Anna is. Lots of fun, particularly for those who love caves.	2001-08-21
US	44382291	R2J1PXVPFXS5CE	0688085873	838714539	A Short History of World War II	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Good overview of impossibly complex subject	This book sets an impossible task...and very nearly succeeds. The rub is in the phrase &quot;short history.&quot; If there's one central lesson to be drawn from this book it's that World War II was immensely complex, with ramifications so vast that it's impossible to discuss them all at any depth in a &quot;short&quot; book. At 150,000 or so words, this book is a lot more than an outline, but it's still forced to abbreviate. If you're interested in details about any given campaign, or any given individual, you're going to be disappointed; if you have a favorite World War II topic or personality, you're bound to feel that it's been given short shrift. Even the most famous battles rarely rate more than a page or two. Where this book triumphs is in putting presenting the big picture--military, political, and to some extent cultural--and in drawing interconnections such as why the North Africa campaigns sucked the Allies into a nightmare slog down the Italian peninsula, or how Germany's conquest of Norway helped tip the scales in the Battle of Britain.<br />Overall, this is a masterful achievement. Is it flag-waving, as some would say? Perhaps--but remember, the author's writing from Nova Scotia, which gives him a Canadian-eye view that allows some detachment in his references to &quot;the British&quot; or &quot;the Americans.&quot; (Given the fact he was writing in 1980, that might also explain why he takes a dim view of De Gaule, whose post-war association with French Canada stirred many resentments.) <br />Stokesbury clearly views this war as the crowning achievement of &quot;The Greatest Generation,&quot; even if the book pre-dates that phrase. And maybe he's right. Highly recommended, especially to those wanting to put recent World War II movies into context.	2001-08-09
US	44382291	R2UUL4X0LU93SK	0767907566	172626279	All Elevations Unknown: An Adventure in the Heart of Borneo	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Good but not great	This is a good book, but not a great one, undermined by three difficulties, not all of them the author's fault. Problem number one is an excess of hype on the part of the publisher; Lightner's interweaving of two stories, even if separated by more than 50 years, isn't revolutionary. It is entertaining, however, and it works nicely. It's just oversold.<br />Nevertheless, the dual stories make the book. Lightner correctly realizes that his own climbing tale is simply too thin. His other main problem is that the World War II story is far more interesting, especially since most people have no clue about how the war was fought on Borneo. (My own reference library on World War II devotes two sentences to the island: the Japanese captured it; later the Allies took it back.) Lightner has done a wonderful job of bringing this little-known story to life, but by so doing, he emphasizes the thinness of his own tale, whose central conflict turns out to be between himself and the film crew who helped finance the expedition. The &quot;video  guys,&quot; as he calls them, want things in exchange for their money that change the nature of the climbers' goals. That's interesting...but not as much so as a world war.<br />The third problem is that in his efforts to bring the story to life, Lightner's gone farther than needed, by fabricating dialog, characters' reactions to each other, and additional perceptual material to fill in gaps in the narrative. He admits this, but it's an ill-considered approach to a story with drama enough to stand on its own if he'd made it clear which material is based on someone's memoirs, and which is interpolated. Not doing it in the traditional manner leaves the reader wondering how much of the story is real, and how much is guesswork. Worse, it casts doubt on Lightner's own tale. Every time he intercuts from the present to the past, he does so by having himself reflect on the World War II story. The third time he did this, I wondered: Is this also a device? Might he have been napping at the time, rather than thinking about World War II? And if so, what else in the tale is a device?<br />None of this destroys the versimilitude of the whole, but it does undermine it. But that said, it's a good book, recommended to those with an interest in adventure travel, history, and to a lesser extent, climbing.	2001-08-07
