US	44383955	R1C7NLFUM3LNZT	0316573671	237507753	Cardiac Angiography (Little, Brown Library of Radiology)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	coronary bypass surgery	If you are the type of person suffering from any type of heart rhythm, vein blockage, or pain malady, your best reference is to bone up on techniques used to resolve those issues.  Chances are quite strong that you will end up in the O.R. with one of the procedures described in this book, being put to use on you.  The more that you or your significant others know about the techniques or complications affecting life centered on the workings of the heart, the better off you will be.<br />Knowledge is the key to peace.<br /><br />OBTW: been there, done that. more than once.  If it's soon to be your trial, though it hurts (A LOT!!) blow in that little plastic thing with its ball and markings.  this will help greatly in getting the fluids out of your lungs.<br /><br />2nd thing would be to get up and walk around the floor (first few or 10 times are excruciating, but it (and you) gets better.  Cowboy up!<br />more walking and less coughing.  Having to cough is the absolute worst part of the whole ordeal!<br /><br />here's more of the rundown: the anesthesia messes up your sense of taste.  It's not the cooks fault, rather, it's you.  get the food down whatever it takes.  after open heart surgery, you'll have a battle scar that runs right down the middle of your chest, from the collarbone to the belly.  some people use it to show their rite of passage.  The process involves a small 'panel' saw that cute through the bone and cartilage of the sternum.  Those tissues and cartilage never reconnect.  You get closed up with high quality piano wire- 5 for most people; 6 if you are Merle Haggard of some other picker.  The bed at home doesn't work like the one in the hospital, so kind of grab your chest and roll up an outward at a 45 degree angle to get up and out of bed.  again, walk as much as you can.<br /><br />As much as people swear to fall into healthy habits or whatever, to keep from a repeat procedure, in no time flat you'll be back to your old habits.  You're only human.Many times, the problem is not your fault at all, but due to some variance or fluke in your anatomy.  (anomaly).  It's not like your not going to get over it.  Cardiologists know everything there is about the human heart, and certainly the techniques to fix the problem and get you standing once more so you can get back to work and be the pillar or resistance...	2005-06-21
US	44383955	R18TZU2KI5DU74	0900404132	12025562	A Traction Engine Miscellany	Books	5	0	0	N	N	steam tractors	This book has a detailed illustrated overview of steam-powered tractors.  Used in farming, mining, and construction, these contraptions filled the job before Diesels and Gasoline engines took over.    Profiles in the book include line drawings, manufacturers, specs, and types of uses.  The book is invaluable to any collector that has one in good enough condition to restore.  The downfall of these engines were that hardwater, and consistent fuel to power the boiler took their toll.    The grace of the USA is that people will expend herculean effort to develop or maintain equipment that is geared towards 'saving' labor, no matter how minute or futile the effort.  Fortunately, the steam tractor evolved into Semi Tractors and trailers, and modern locomotives.	2005-06-21
US	44383955	R37A9OA0CUHL4J	0070574723	546592551	Basic mathematics for electricity and electronics	Books	4	6	6	N	N	MATHEMATICS CONTENT	SOME CONTENTS OF THE BOOK ARE: <br />Topics include Mathematics: (hereafter \\"M\\"), a language, a tool, a teacher; Calculators and Computers to help you study M; Algebra- General numbers; Algebra- Addition and Subtraction; Polynomials; Signs of Grouping; Equations; Powers of 10; Units and dimensions; Ohm's Law- Series Circuits; Resistance- Wire Sizes; Special Product and Factoring; Algebraic Fractions; Fractional Equations; Ohm's Law- Parallel Circuits; Meter Circuits; Divider Circuits and Wheatstone Bridges; Graphs; Simultaneous Equations; Determinants; Batteries; Exponents and Radicals; Quadratic Equations; Network Simplification; Angles; Trigonometric Functions; Trigonometric Values; Solution of Right Triangles; Trigonometric Identities and Equations; Elementary Plane Vectors; Periodic Functions; Alternating Currents- Fundamental Ideas; Phasor Algebra; Alternating Currents- Series Circuits; Alternating Currents- Parallel Circuits; Logarithms; Applications of Logarithms; Number Systems for Computers; Boolean Algebra; Karnaugh Maps; and much more!  This book is geared towards the students of electricity, radio, electronics, and computers, whose need is to have an understanding of M principles directly applicable to electrical and electronic circuits.  Just as a carpenter that build a building with a tape measure and skilsaw, the engineer employs M as their primary tool.  Maybe this book is for you.  Depending on competition, you may be able to get it at a price that's right for you.	2005-05-08
US	44383955	R136TKFM0MMJ2N	0395624274	557890125	How to Make a Mummy Talk	Books	4	0	0	N	N	MUMMIES REVEALED! (through Forensics)	A decently written book, on a simplified plane, that explains basic concepts of archaeology to a middle school student, and older. An interesting synopsis of various facets of investigation, history, frauds and cons, transport, science investigations, and anecdotal recitals of interest. <br />I LIKE THIS BOOK BECAUSE it not only talks of mummies but of the process of mummification of various things, give experiments, and opens up insight into archaeological methods and goals.  written for the younger crowd, the older crowd can learn a few things.  The author has put a lot of information into the book, on a level that all can comprehend and appreciate.  <br />I once thought that Mummies were few and far between, but read later that there were so many mummies found in/on the Nile Plain, that those that weren't in Museums, were ground up into a medical powder that people swallowed (mostly Brits and French (probably the reason they are now so into Scotch and Cognac)) that made people far sicker than they were before the `cure'; and a goodly amount, say 30,000, were used to fire the boilers of the Egyptian Railroad (the mummy embalming and subsequent body dehydration rendered a fuel that had a high Btu coefficient).   <br />Topics include The Mummy Mythology Test; Where Mummies have Been Found; The Iceman; Flexed Mummies; Extended Mummies; Pet Mummies; Animal unfinished meals; Curses; The art of Artificial Mummy Making; Sand Mummy; Molded Mummies; Burial Tombs; Andean Finds; Scythian (Russian) Mummies; Mummies by Accident (or rather, \\"Be careful when walking through a Peat Bog); Frozen types; Tattooing; Tollund man; Forensic Examinations; Lindow Man; Mummies who get around; Mummy Dummies; Graverobbers; Doctors and their `cures'; Treasure Hunters and Antique Collectors; Mummy Magicians; Carnys and Sideshow Operators; Where to go to see a mummy.   <br />	2005-05-07
US	44383955	R3JSBLRUS157UB	0517500930	144572646	Glenn's Complete Bicycle Manual: Selection, Maintenance, Repair	Books	5	8	10	N	N	GLENN'S BIKE MANUAL FOR DECENT MECHANICS	11 chapters and 60+ subchapters about how to take care of your bike, inspect parts for corrosion and wear, and more.   <br />The How and Why book of bicycles.  Step-by-step instructions for complete disassembly, assembly, inspection, adjustment, and maintenance of American, European, and Japanese Built bicycles- hubs, stems, hanger sets, and all.  Each Task is supported with keyed Photographs and/or Detailed Drawings clearly depicting what should be done and how.  Tells you how to make an intelligent purchase, assemble, test, and adjust your new bicycle from Packing Crate to Comfortable Riding.  Explains how to fit your machine to \\"you\\" and how to maintain it for Maximum Efficiency.  Notes on Cross-country Touring in the US and abroad, and related regulations to educate you in advance.  A rather complete guide. <br />	2005-05-07
US	44383955	R9GGZLHQ9QJX6	B0006QN5C8	893292513	9-6 jacks or better video poker : a complete "how to beat the casino" discussion	Books	4	7	7	N	N	E-Z VIDEO POKER STRATEGY	Bob Dancer, a successful video poker and card poker player in his own right, has authored a series of books dealing with easy to follow video poker player technique.  Unlike the original books listed (1996), Dancer has completely revised (2003 & 2004) and added new information as part of a SIX-VOLUME set to cover roughly 32 video poker variations found at most Nevada Casinos.  The books are broken up into four skill levels: Novice or Beginner, and higher skill strategy for educated players that are looking for more challenge and higher payoffs.   <br />The best part is the text is easy to read and comprehend.  I keep a copy in the bathroom for reference, and after studying the book that covered my favorite game (Deuces Wild), I took the plunge and played $5 into $150 the first time out.  Instead of just sitting there plugging in coins, I found that I can actually enjoy the play and constantly people sitting next to me sit there wondering why I am getting paid and they are not.   <br />Another feature that Mr Dancer emphasizes is the avid use and memebership in slot clubs, as many of these will allow you to enjoy many perks and comps that used to exist across the board to all casino players; comps such as meal, play money credits, merchandise, gifts of all sorts, jackpot multipliers, show tickets, hotel rooms on the house, and various other come-ons that can be very interesting and elusive to other players. <br />Besides the books on Video poker, Bob Dancer also publishes other books about his experiences as a professional gambler, and software that you can purchase and load on your computer that will coach you as you learn valid methods to improve your game. <br />Mr. Dancer is also easily approachable and exhuberant.  If you are in Las Vegas, the author gives classes in local casinos once a week at no charge other than your own bankroll in a machine.  You would think casino hosts would cringe at a player that is sharing secrets, but to the contrary, they are happythat some player, Mr Dancer in this case, has figured out the programs, payback schedules, and other quirks that make gambling fun instead of a stress point that other experience when they lose out of ignorance.   <br />I like the Deuces Wild because it is one of the beatable forms of video poker, and actually has paid me far more than what I put into it, following Bob Dancer's advice.   <br />If you play video poker, in its varied forms, you cannot afford not to read and learn Dancer's strategies.	2005-02-25
US	44383955	R1W4UV8A98AKNB	B0006R7FYG	222842108	Deuces wild video poker	Books	5	3	4	N	N	E-Z VIDEO POKER STRATEGY	Bob Dancer, a successful video poker and card poker player in his own right, has authored a series of books dealing with easy to follow video poker player technique.  Unlike the original books listed (1996), Dancer has completely revised (2003 & 2004) and added new information as part of a SIX-VOLUME set to cover roughly 32 video poker variations found at most Nevada Casinos.  The books are broken up into four skill levels: Novice or Beginner, and higher skill strategy for educated players that are looking for more challenge and higher payoffs.   <br />The best part is the text is easy to read and comprehend.  I keep a copy in the bathroom for reference, and after studying the book that covered my favorite game (Deuces Wild), I took the plunge and played $5 into $150 the first time out.  Instead of just sitting there plugging in coins, I found that I can actually enjoy the play and constantly people sitting next to me sit there wondering why I am getting paid and they are not.   <br />Another feature that Mr Dancer emphasizes is the avid use and memebership in slot clubs, as many of these will allow you to enjoy many perks and comps that used to exist across the board to all casino players; comps such as meal, play money credits, merchandise, gifts of all sorts, jackpot multipliers, show tickets, hotel rooms on the house, and various other come-ons that can be very interesting and elusive to other players. <br />Besides the books on Video poker, Bob Dancer also publishes other books about his experiences as a professional gambler, and software that you can purchase and load on your computer that will coach you as you learn valid methods to improve your game. <br />Mr. Dancer is also easily approachable and exhuberant.  If you are in Las Vegas, the author gives classes in local casinos once a week at no charge other than your own bankroll in a machine.  You would think casino hosts would cringe at a player that is sharing secrets, but to the contrary, they are happythat some player, Mr Dancer in this case, has figured out the programs, payback schedules, and other quirks that make gambling fun instead of a stress point that other experience when they lose out of ignorance.   <br />I like the Deuces Wild because it is one of the beatable forms of video poker, and actually has paid me far more than what I put into it, following Bob Dancer's advice.   <br />If you play video poker, in its varied forms, you cannot afford not to read and learn Dancer's strategies.	2005-02-25
US	44383955	R3D4UIZCT2V0M2	B0006QN5BY	152305528	10-7 double bonus video poker: A complete "how to beat the casino" discussion	Books	4	2	3	N	N	E-Z VIDEO POKER STRATEGY	Bob Dancer, a successful video poker and card poker player in his own right, has authored a series of books dealing with easy to follow video poker player technique.  Unlike the original books listed (1996), Dancer has completely revised (2003 & 2004) and added new information as part of a SIX-VOLUME set to cover roughly 32 video poker variations found at most Nevada Casinos.  The books are broken up into four skill levels: Novice or Beginner, and higher skill strategy for educated players that are looking for more challenge and higher payoffs.   <br />The best part is the text is easy to read and comprehend.  I keep a copy in the bathroom for reference, and after studying the book that covered my favorite game (Deuces Wild), I took the plunge and played $5 into $150 the first time out.  Instead of just sitting there plugging in coins, I found that I can actually enjoy the play and constantly people sitting next to me sit there wondering why I am getting paid and they are not.   <br />Another feature that Mr Dancer emphasizes is the avid use and memebership in slot clubs, as many of these will allow you to enjoy many perks and comps that used to exist across the board to all casino players; comps such as meal, play money credits, merchandise, gifts of all sorts, jackpot multipliers, show tickets, hotel rooms on the house, and various other come-ons that can be very interesting and elusive to other players. <br />Besides the books on Video poker, Bob Dancer also publishes other books about his experiences as a professional gambler, and software that you can purchase and load on your computer that will coach you as you learn valid methods to improve your game. <br />Mr. Dancer is also easily approachable and exhuberant.  If you are in Las Vegas, the author gives classes in local casinos once a week at no charge other than your own bankroll in a machine.  You would think casino hosts would cringe at a player that is sharing secrets, but to the contrary, they are happythat some player, Mr Dancer in this case, has figured out the programs, payback schedules, and other quirks that make gambling fun instead of a stress point that other experience when they lose out of ignorance.   <br />I like the Deuces Wild because it is one of the beatable forms of video poker, and actually has paid me far more than what I put into it, following Bob Dancer's advice.   <br />If you play video poker, in its varied forms, you cannot afford not to read and learn Dancer's strategies.	2005-02-25
US	44383955	R2PIHNGVCJ1YY7	0321044851	943046577	Occupied America: A History of Chicanos (4th Edition)	Books	4	33	59	N	N	Mexicans have always been oppressed	R Acua's treatise of Mexican Americans (now called Chicanos or Pochos) includes what many would call 'the Underside of American History' (search title).  The fact is, America waged war against the Mexicans, using many of the same methods that we now accuse those of Iraq or Bosnia of using, and differs little from the 'ethnic cleansing or genocide of the modern world.  In school, most US Americans are given a glossed-over summary of key US propaganda regarding the history lessons that politicians want people to know, rather than an objective, 'tell-it-like-it-is/was' history that encompasses true social responsibility.  The wars waged against the mostly poor mexican countrymen, living in Mexican territory, under siege from an offensive US American anglo army, parallel little of the 'good american' reputation widely distributed today.  The author, in his extensive research, pulls up countless accounts of slaughter, rape, torture, mutilation, and abuse of mexican men, women, children, mostly incited as a sort of blood sport by American cavalry, enlisted men, volunteers, and associates, as well as the leveling of Mexican cities and towns just for target practice.  To add to the war crimes, most of the Americans involved, even the command of Zachary Taylor, were never brought up on any charges, nor even in the most slightest way, reprimanded for their actions.  Of course, if the truth were known by many, or the school kids of today taught the real truth, Perhaps people would have an entirely different view of what America Wants vs. what America will do to get it.	2004-08-27
US	44383955	R227R6WDU6P7QY	0961938250	510881810	Silverton Gold	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	gold in silver country	A very interesting book about a phenomenal gold mine NE of Silverton Colorado. Has a lot of photos, as well as the whole history of the mine. Miners almost 'killed' to get a job there as one of the perks was the highgrading of specimen gold. The management was of the opinion of \\"get your work done, then go specimen hunting.\\" Things were going along pretty good when, in 1978, miners hit a defect in the earth below Lake Emma, and the entire 28 acre lake drained through the mine, washing out most of the timbers and filling the mine with mud.<br /><br />The main tunnel, located at Gladstone, was flushed like a toilet, and people all over the place started dredging and working the creek below the portal to recover gold (I was one of them). The mine owner (now Echo Bay) hired security to keep people out and away from the mine, but even they, too, recovered nearly a dump truck load of very high grade gold ore, and sent it to Texas for processing.  After the 'flush', the mining company sent people into the mine to clean out the mud and muck, and rehab the workings, but the mud (consistency of wet concrete), in periodic slumps, completely destroyed the rail and trains, as well as killed a few miners (whose bodies were never recovered). The lake is still drained, but is plugged up. Perhaps one day, the mine will reopen and more highgrade gold recovered.<br /><br /> The book was written by a part time superintendent of the mine, and is a worthy work for his historical summary and inclusions. If you are a fan of the San Juans and Red Mountain mining districts, or a gold miner, or simply interested in mining history, this is a rare book you should add to your library.	2004-07-29
US	44383955	RUQ5B0G664UJG	0835927571	499307666	Handbook of Practical Microcomputer Troubleshooting	Books	2	1	6	N	N	BEYOND EXPIRED!	great book if you still own an Atari or Commodore.  nothing in the book applies to modern computers of 2004	2004-06-06
US	44383955	R2OLZ0X1U64RVF	0899333176	353112675	New Mexico Atlas & Gazetteer	Books	5	21	24	N	N	REVISED EDITION IS EVEN BETTER	Jack Purcell is pretty thorough in his review.  As for the nitpickers, if they really want to get names and numbers of backroads, they can contact the forest service and BLM, as well as the park service, who publishes maps of logging roads, and other limited use roadways.  At 1:250,000, who could expect a name or number tag anyway of off-the-beaten trail access roads anyway?  <BR>What's nice about the new edition is De Lorme has added graphics to note relief, rather than topo lines found on previous editions (Perhaps due to competition from Benchmark Maps).  I like the DeLorme Maps because they tend to be more detailed using a smaller resolution overall than other book maps (1:150,000 up to 1:250,000), and if one needs the detail offered in a 7.5 minute map, they have only to visit TopoZone.com to get really close, after locating the general area conditions on a DeLorme Map.  <BR>A great overall set to obtain, at the very least, get your state and every state that surrounds your own, and exploit it for true getaways and area studies!	2004-01-25
US	44383955	R1G4PUEGC3UQ02	0899333257	950385653	Arizona Atlas & Gazetteer (Delorme Atlas & Gazetteer)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	REVISED EDITION IS EVEN BETTER	Jack Purcell is pretty thorough in his review.  As for the nitpickers, if they really want to get names and numbers of backroads, they can contact the forest service and BLM, as well as the park service, who publishes maps of logging roads, and other limited use roadways.  At 1:250,000, who could expect a name or number tag anyway of off-the-beaten trail access roads anyway?  <BR>What's nice about the new edition is De Lorme has added graphics to note relief, rather than topo lines found on previous editions (Perhaps due to competition from Benchmark Maps).  I like the DeLorme Maps because they tend to be more detailed using a smaller resolution overall than other book maps (1:150,000 up to 1:250,000), and if one needs the detail offered in a 7.5 minute map, they have only to visit TopoZone.com to get really close, after locating the general area conditions on a DeLorme Map.  <BR>A great overall set to obtain, at the very least, get your state and every state that surrounds your own, and exploit it for true getaways and area studies!	2004-01-25
US	44383955	R2440GWIXWEW2S	1559500883	149269823	The Art and Science of Dumpster Diving	Books	4	20	21	N	N	make real money from other people's trash	This book is all about looking through others people's garbage cans, and finding something useful, valuable, or sellable.  A LOT of good tips, especially the part about dealing with good-for-nothing rent a cops or other nosy jokers looking to make you feel guilty about being gainfully employed in salvage.  Includes tips on how to minimize such confrontations and shakedowns.  The author of this book emphasizes that most people, rather than finding a way to recycle, just put their burdens in the Garbage can; perfectly good and useable stuff: jewelry, watches, money, coin collections, antique toys, reloading supplies, firearms, even brand new goods still in the original box- UNOPENED!    Carry some soap and water and clean up after a dumpster episode. not hard, maybe potentially lucrative to look.  Just watch out for body parts...(some people never find them; I seem to find lots).	2003-11-13
US	44383955	R36CIK7UQ86ZB	0316850241	904347155	War and Anti-War: Survival at the Dawn of the 21st Century	Books	4	1	2	N	N	what they didn't see coming in 1994	everything in this book is here now, as well as some newer insidious developments.  people no longer live private lives, what with a cell phone being able to track you around and all your conversations being heard and recorded, even if the phone is switched off. smart bombs, HAARP and atmospheric manipulation, every home infiltrated with myriad electromagnetic fields that disrupt human biological functions.  Soon everyone in the world will have some sort of ID card or implant, that will tell any scanner who you are, and include your banking and credit data, personal data, nationality, and convictions-- all accessed by some sort of infrared device.  the infrared devices now in use can tell how much paper money you have in your wallet, purse, or in the house of business, eventhough the scanner is inside of some car passing by your house on the street. No one is hidden anymore, video cameras scan just about any place, street, address, roadway, business, interior, exterior and can tell who goes where and what they do.  Computer programs unknowingly downloaded onto your hard drive can realy just about anything about you and your habits that you would have just as sonn kept hidden.  <BR>This books gets you into the mindset, if you are so naive to think none of this is real, but only sci fi...NOT!	2003-11-10
US	44383955	R2MYDTX2KHE03T	1560870753	67215698	Amazing and Wonderful Mind Machines You Can Build	Books	5	63	70	N	Y	quirky but fascinating	this is a really neat little book that focuses on gadgets that you can build, along with some that you only have to draw.  I have tried a few of these in the past, and for whatever reason, they work without a hitch; EVEN WHEN THEY SHOULD NOT WORK AT ALL.  SOME MACHINES IN THE BOOK ONLY NEED BE DRAWN, AND THEY WORK AS IF IT WAS AN ACTUAL PHYSICAL CONTRAPTION!<br />This book represents plans and 'machines' the author made himself, following plans from other inventors and experimenters.  He mentions other curious machines and theories, but, unfortunately for all of us, did not include any of those, as he felt they were 'unverified' by him.  It would have been an interesting trail to follow if he would have.  (Of course, for all of us tinkerers, how would it have been if Tesla had left simpler plans for us too?).<br />The ideas and machines in this book date from the 1950's. Even one of the 'battery-powered' ones does not need any batteries to work- just a schematic sketch of one!  Strange but true.	2003-11-10
US	44383955	R2JJBE2EEJP4U8	0813511186	352095898	Edison's Electric Light	Books	4	1	2	N	N	as inventors go...	Perhaps more detail has been written about Tesla, than his arch rival, Thomas Edison.  The former was in the real sense, an inventor, while Edison, for all intent, was a tinkerer; that is, he took objects and concepts and made them better or workable.  Sure, we have all heard about the Phonograph, and the Electric light bulb that Edison made workable, but most accounts summarize his dealings rather than scrutinize them.  <BR>The Authors of this book, wrote a highly detailed scholarly account of the 'inventor' Edison, in a way few other authors have ever accomplished. <BR>As for the Tesla/Edision rivalry, I think it fortunate that Tesla won over the world with A/C electric Current rather than Edison's D/C; makes for less electrocutions in the home.  Perhaps, fate was that all these inventors and tinkerers were at bat together, but I sometimes wonder what would have happened had they been spread out a little so that more detailed notes could have been made of their work and contribution.	2003-02-02
US	44383955	R237V9L936HBOB	0767906837	727827893	The Art of the Steal: How to Recognize and Prevent Fraud--America's #1 Crime	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	almost tempting to try the examples	Frank Abagnale starts off with some very interesting and specifiic details in a book that's pretty good reading.  Informative, and offering a few examples that likely work for con-men, the first 2/3 of the book are focused and follow a coherent course. In the final portion of the book, maybe just for filler, the author then muddies the course and gets ambiguous, giving us information that really does not explain or solve anything for the reader--it's vague and general themes that we all hear constantly, and the only real way to get the monkey off our back would be to climb into some hole and shut the computer off.<BR>Fortunately though, Frank offers a lot of good wisdom elsewhere in his book, and shows promise as a continuing author.  I thinks it's almost humorous just how blatantly daring somebody is to pull off these cons, and in broad daylight, so to speak.  People seem to have a hard time with simple details; any cop will tell you that, and simple things are what get us every time.<br />For a followup book, I would hope that Frank Abagnale, Jr., draft a bible of every known con game played out, in existence, and that bible become a household reference book everytime some joker calls us on the phone or sends us phony email.  It seems the elderly could certainly use some help in refreshing their power of discernment.  <br />In essence, the con plays are anything unknown; they are used every day and the cops are all too familiar with them.  By writing them down, maybe we could recognize a 'new one' for our own information, and be able to reference the 'old tricks' for our future reference and preservation.  <br />Frank certainly writes in a very understandable and informative manner.	2003-02-01
US	44383955	R3KXQKVEGSW10X	0830611592	988954316	How and Where to Prospect for Gold	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	BE OBJECTIVE IN YOUR SEARCH	oNE OF THE BETTER BOOKS WRITTEN IN A REALISTIC and objective manner.  Too many times, the prospector or miner gets $ signs in their eyes and greed sets in.  They find a chip of gold and begin to think the whole country is there waiting for them to scoop the hidden gold up by the shovelful.  Vern Ballantyne gives the reader vital information of how to explore, sample, and prospect in a manner that shows truth to the record, rather than GROSS OPTIMISM, and unwarranted hope.  <BR>If this is not enough, just ponder the fact that even with rich mines of the Old West, FAR MORE MONEY was put into the ground than was ever taken out.<BR>I have purchased nearly 50 copies of this book and given them away to my associates who wanted to get into mining; that's how much I believe in the good common sense presented here by this author.	2003-02-01
US	44383955	R3CDCK8KUPPI9L	B00005WQJN	946575192	Saints and Strangers	Books	5	12	13	N	N	PILGRIM GENEALOGY	SAINTS AND STRANGERS, Being the Lives of the Pilgrim Fathers &amp; Their Families, with their Friends and Foes; &amp; an Account of the Posthumous Wanderings in Limbo, Their Final Resurrection &amp; Rise to Glory, &amp; the Strange Pilgrimages of Plymouth Rock.  This is a key work regarding the Pilgrims, their names, places of origin, vital statistics, and family relationships and group sheets.  More, perhaps, has been written about the Pilgrims than any other small group in our history.  And yet they are extravagantly praised for doing that which they never even attempted nor intended to do, and through historical misinformation are given attitudes and attributes which they did not possess. The pilgrims are still confused with the Puritans who settled north of them around Boston Bay.  This biographical work will draw a true distinction between the real truth and the fallacy regarding the Pilgrims, which were as much a force in England and Holland before they crossed the waters, as when they finally came here to what would become the United States and made it their legacy.  Chapters include Plymouth Rock and the Pilgrim Saga; the Postmaster at Scrooby; Ye Lord's Free People; Scandal in Brownists Alley; At the Green Gate, Leyden; The Merchant Adventurers; A Waighty Voiage; Mutiny on the Mayflower; Babes in the Wilderness; New Plimoth Planted; Yellow Feather, the Big Chief; Cold Comfort for Hungrie Bellies; Liquidation of Wessagusset; Unsavorie Salte; the Undertakers; Purge of Joylity; Into ye Briers; Minister Trouble; The Pilgrim Company (a list of names, kin, and vital statistics); Officers of the Old Colony and of the Pilgrim Church (a roster); and more. This work has been written using excerpt from the colonists diaries and letters, and has as much to do with the background of who and what they were in England, and Why they left to embark on a new life, fronting untold hardships to become the white Ancestor Americans.  The period of History referred to in the book is generally the years 1600-1665.  Some of the name mentioned in the rosters are Christopher Jones; Isaac Allerton; Mrs. Mary Morris; Moses Maverick; Thomas Cushman; William Bradford; William Brewster; John Carver; George Laggatt; Francis Cooke; John Crackston; Moses Fletcher; Samuel Fuller; John Goodman; Degory Priest; Thomas Rogers; Edward Tilley; John Tilley; Thomas Tinker; John Turner; William White; Edward Winslow; John Billington; Gregory Armstrong; Richard Britteridge; Peter Browne; James Chilton; Richard Clarke; Humility Cooper; Francis Eaton; Edward Fuller; Richard Gardiner; Stephen Hopkins; Edmund Margeson; Christopher Martin; William Mullins; Henry Samson; Myles Standish; Richard Warren; Thomas Williams; John Alden; John Allerton; Thomas English; William Trevore; William Latham; John Howland; William Butten; Edward Dotey; and several more just in the Mayflower roster. Many of these men have their wives listed, and it seems that most had at least three wives.  Again this is a pivotal genealogical work for research on the early colonists, where &amp; when they were born, and how and when they died.is generally the years 1600-1665.  Some of the name mentioned in the rosters are Christopher Jones; Isaac Allerton; Mrs. Mary Morris; Moses Maverick; Thomas Cushman; William Bradford; William Brewster; John Carver; George Laggatt; Francis Cooke; John Crackston; Moses Fletcher; Samuel Fuller; John Goodman; Degory Priest; Thomas Rogers; Edward Tilley; John Tilley; Thomas Tinker; John Turner; William White; Edward Winslow; John Billington; Gregory Armstrong; Richard Britteridge; Peter Browne; James Chilton; Richard Clarke; Humility Cooper; Francis Eaton; Edward Fuller; Richard Gardiner; Stephen Hopkins; Edmund Margeson; Christopher Martin; William Mullins; Henry Samson; Myles Standish; Richard Warren; Thomas Williams; John Alden; John Allerton; Thomas English; William Trevore; William Latham; John Howland; William Butten; Edward Dotey; and several more just in the Mayflower roster. Many of these men have their wives listed, and it seems that most had at least three wives.  Again this is a pivotal genealogical work for research on the early colonists, where &amp; when they were born, and how and when they died.	2003-02-01
US	44383955	R3Q9AP22ZS8RWM	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	3	8	N	Y	cons make pretty good authors sometimes	A decent read but not long enough or detailed enough.  It would have been nice to have had a pic of the guy during the period just so the reader could envision him and seek out the flaws.  Frank is personable because he takes bold actions in performing his scams- (while the rest of us think about them but don't carry them out).    I am always in awe of con men because they pick up on things readily visible to them, but not so apparent to the average Frank.  They take these very simple observations and build up some ingenious plan that works for them (for a while anyway), in order to get money, trips around the world, and lots of chicks without a clue.  Just about anyone associated with a con man-in-action ends up looking in the mirror and discovering just how stupid and gullible they are or were.    Of course, to get the most out of this book, follow up with The Art of the Steal, just to glimpse simple things we all overlook.  Cons and fraud, like the prophecies in the bible, they are hard to see in current or future actions, but are plain as day when looking back.  So don't get too riled up when you get involved with one- just use it as experience	2003-01-06
US	44383955	R14H1LZCBW3DNJ	0397009860	611947219	Dealing with Cheats: Illustrated Methods of Cardsharps, Dice Hustlers, and Other Gambling Swindlers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Cheaters, Cheaters Everywhere	One of the best all around books on cheating history, from the times of Steamboat cardsharks, to dice pressers in the (then Modern 1973) Las Vegas world of gambling.  Many of the methods depicted are obsolete because slot machines and other games have gone to using a computer chip.  Even keno is automated now.  but it still talks about the elaborate and intricate gaffs that some conman thought up and implemented.  Book has pictures too!  Not so much of modern techniques, but very interesting and enlightening.	2002-12-26
US	44383955	R1MPL918WKOKVC	0901918032	895508427	Our Industry Petroleum	Books	5	1	2	N	N	British, but worldwide!	A rather nice book not only about the British Petroleum Company, but oil industries overall.  Has exceptional charts inside noting scientific and chemical data relative to various product compositions (such as gasoline varieties), American and Canadian oil fields, Ditto coal and gas fields, processing, transport, and so on.  Basically, anything and everything about most facets of the oil industry	2002-12-06
US	44383955	R3P4TX0E1OW9ZY	0914119095	356152019	Modern Tesla Coil Design Theory	Books	4	3	10	N	N	keep the computers far away	Like most information about Tesla, useful information can be gleaned from this book, but not all is revealed.  The more information that one has about Tesla and his inventions, all interact to educate the reader/technician/inventor.  This is necessary because most technical Tesla components have to be made and fashioned on the spot, and then tuned and calibrated to perform the desired function (it's not like you can go to Radio Shack and buy key Tesla components off the shelf).     Indeed, Tesla spent a lot more time making and trying out certain key components, than making the overall end invention of his tinkering.  There is some debate that Tesla was Autistic, and through quirks of nature, was able to focus on ideas and thoughts in ways most of the rest of us cannot. He probably was able to build the whole thing inside his head, and his challenges were not so much to know what would happen, but rather, how to make a physical model that would work as well as the intellectual model of whatever goal or interactive unit worked inside of his head.      Through the use and making of very complex components, Tesla later found that many of the end results, intended or not, were 'simple' oversights or side bars of his experiments, and these 'simple' technologies assumed a life all their own; sometimes overshadowing the more complex and intricate workings of the previously envisioned result.  He seemed to be extremely distracted by sidebars.  Working on something would spark interest in a side note or reaction, and there he would go, off on another trail.  Started 100 things, finished maybe 5. but gathered data that only added to his catalog of possibilities that obviously, no one but he could comprehend.    Here we are, amateurs and novices (compared with the Master Tesla), attempting to pick up the pieces from obscure notes and diagrams, and reproducing 'simple' actions, which are anything but simple.  This, the legacy of a true inventor, rather than a tinkerer, as was Edison.      Lest anyone think about journals and writings of Tesla becoming readily available, most acredited sources believe that 80% or more of his technical notes and works ended up in Belgrade, and with the last Croatian/Serbian war, their continued existence is doubtful.    Yet, with what few notes we have, our quest for knowledge and witness to the vast fields of thought and technology unmasked by Tesla is simply unfathomable to the informed. If psychic contact and all that stuff really worked, how is it that no one has taken notes and academics from Tesla?  It sort of makes you wish that Some other gifted autistic would focus on electronics, rather than piano.       Good luck in your quest, and be open to purchasing all you can about Tesla, the Genius Inventor.	2002-11-27
US	44383955	R33R1M6M8S6UE0	0743215362	869948861	Tesla: Man Out of Time	Books	4	6	7	N	N	can you ever know enough about Tesla?	Like most information about Tesla, useful information can be gleaned from this book, but not all is revealed. The more information that one has about Tesla and his inventions, all interact to educate the reader/technician/inventor. This is necessary because most technical Tesla components have to be made and fashioned on the spot, and then tuned and calibrated to perform the desired function (it's not like you can go to Radio Shack and buy key Tesla components off the shelf).     Indeed, Tesla spent a lot more time making and trying out certain key components, than making the overall end invention of his tinkering. There is some debate that Tesla was Autistic, and through quirks of nature, was able to focus on ideas and thoughts in ways most of the rest of us cannot. He probably was able to build the whole thing inside his head, and his challenges were not so much to know what would happen, but rather, how to make a physical model that would work as well as the intellectual model of whatever goal or interactive unit worked inside of his head.     Through the use and making of very complex components, Tesla later found that many of the end results, intended or not, were 'simple' oversights or side bars of his experiments, and these 'simple' technologies assumed a life all their own; sometimes overshadowing the more complex and intricate workings of the previously envisioned result. He seemed to be extremely distracted by sidebars. Working on something would spark interest in a side note or reaction, and there he would go, off on another trail. Started 100 things, finished maybe 5. but gathered data that only added to his catalog of possibilities that obviously, no one but he could comprehend.     Here we are, amateurs and novices (compared with the Master Tesla), attempting to pick up the pieces from obscure notes and diagrams, and reproducing 'simple' actions, which are anything but simple. This, the legacy of a true inventor, rather than a tinkerer, as was Edison.Lest anyone think about journals and writings of Tesla becoming readily available, most acredited sources believe that 80% or more of his technical notes and works ended up in Belgrade, and with the last Croatian/Serbian war, their continued existence is doubtful.   Yet, with what few notes we have, our quest for knowledge and witness to the vast fields of thought and technology unmasked by Tesla is simply unfathomable to the informed. If psychic contact and all that stuff really worked, how is it that no one has taken notes and academics from Tesla? It sort of makes you wish that Some other gifted autistic would focus on electronics, rather than piano.     Good luck in your quest, and be open to purchasing all you can about Tesla, the Genius Inventor.	2002-11-27
US	44383955	RCDHEFG8Q600W	0517278898	930098821	The Complete Encyclopedia of Illustration: Containing all the Original Illustrations from the Iconographic Encyclopedia of Science, Literature and Art	Books	5	2	4	N	N	lost engravings	A quality sample of a thousand, or so, engraved pictures.  With computer graphics, many facets of this art will become lost, because this book represents the best reproductions of tedious, labor-intensive 'photography' in the era before film photography and computer imagery.  All of the illustrations here probably started out as simple sketches that were turned over to a plate engraver for inclusion in a magazine or book, many in reference books for engineers and scientists, in order that the reader could follow along with the author's 'pictorial' narrative.  Were it not for the meticulous detail and precision of the enscriber, many accounts of historical value would be forever lost as many of the drawings in the book depict machinery, architecture, archaeological wonders and detail that are no longer used, made, or found in existence or in the Modern World.  Simply put, this is a phenomenal Book!	2002-11-02
US	44383955	R1N272UMFMI6IV	0874212545	583488657	Henry William Bigler: Soldier, Gold Miner, Missionary, Chronicler, 1815-1900 (Western Experience Series)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	mormon battalion soldier	Everyone in the LDS Church is told to keep a diary for posterity, yet only a few people do.  Henry Bigler did and his words about the march westward, the goldfields of California, and the treks eastward to Utah are some of the most prized words of the pioneers, mormon and non-mormon alike.  He describes things how they were, not some romantic notion or dream.  If only more people like H Bigler had written down a few chapters, we could have lived the moments through their words.  Actually a few people have written their memoirs of the gold country, but Bigler's writings are readable and enjoyable.  For another story about the West, it may pay the reader to find a copy of Alfred Doten's Journal.  The sad part about that one is the posterity sought to remove some of the morally or politically 'incorrect' passages, and part of Doten's record was deliberately messed up or destroyed.  But diaries and journals provide posterity with the truth about how things were, and the reader gains a glimpse and understanding about circumstnces that cannot be gained by any other means.	2002-10-09
US	44383955	R2YWXOCQ6PTTDA	0871964252	344948812	The Multilingual Commercial Dictionary (English, French, German, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	commercial terms in 6 languages	A dictionary for the GLOBAL consumer, businessman, seller, importer, exporter, Finance, Coomodities and Stcoks, etc.  Words in 6 languages: German, English, Italian, French, Portuguese, and Spanish.  Alphabetical by word or phrase (all languages), with five terms listed in the other languages below the listed term.  To deal in another country, one has to know the words in the contract, or get burned.	2002-10-09
US	44383955	R1SZEREX64GDOF	0831070730	17646649	Mexican Narrow Gauge	Books	5	8	8	N	N	book overview	MEXICAN NARROW GAUGE by Gerald M. Best, hardcover,180 pages,1968 Howell-North, 225 illustrations.  This is a RARE and VALUABLE book which covers extensive Mexican history of Railroading used to transport people, ore, and raw material around that country.  Mostly Steam Engines, some Diesels, and picturesque and challenging work environments.  Chapters include Major Narrow Gauge Systems; Mexican National Railway; Interoceanic Railway of Mexico; Regional Narrow Gauge Systems; Mexican Southern Railway, LTD; Hidalgo & Northeastern Railroad; Narrow Gauge Branches of the Mexican Railway; Narrow Gauge in Yucatn;  the Principal Narrow Gauge Shortlines; PNG Industrials; Mainline Operation under Government Ownership; Mexican Album: San Lazaro Station, Mexico City; A Day in the Life of Engine #263; the Cuautla-Puente de Ixtla Line; From Puebla to Cuautla East of the Mountains; En Route from Mexico City to Cuautla; Rosters; and Maps.  Contains photographs of many mining railroad engines and surrounding buildings, ditto for lumber trains that were destroyed by revolutionaries in 1914.  An absolute treasure, and out-of-print special book.	2002-09-09
US	44383955	R1GKZ93UX62YLX	1560850566	949794387	The Mormon Hierarchy: Origins of Power	Books	5	31	60	N	Y	Apparently truth isn't what "the only true church" is about!	D. Michael Quinn has written an excellent book here (as well as other books) that most LDS members should read and analyze.<br /><br />History and actions of the past are, in general, lost to the current generations of saints. Not for lack of information but because the mind of the regular modern saint is numbed and casual, and delving into doctrinal history is beyond their general comprehension or intention. There is no real way for any member of the church to distinguish the full scheme and organization of both the church and deeper doctrine, especially when such doctrine still remains secret, hidden, and suppressed by the power organization of the modern LDS Church.<br /><br />For church leaders, It is not 'convenient' for church members to know the real truth, hence the actions of the hierarchy to keep is under wraps.  To control the membership, a homogenized teaching plan has to condition the active member to become completely oblivious to the REAL TRUTH.  Not even the power group can inform the membership of the TRUTHS given to Joseph Smith, because their learning curve is no [better] than our own, and many walk in the same darkness as the rest of the membership.  To make the Church completely viable and organized, authorities changed the 'inconveniences/incompatibility' of original truth doctrine.<br /><br />By using a book full of errors (the Doctrine and Covenants) and suppressing other means to 'check and verify' the truth and correct revealed contexts, the book with errors becomes the book of truth; the real truths being now concealed and hidden away in a vault where only 15 people or so are authorized to read them.<br /><br />What they cannot change are the words in various diaries that original members and participants wrote, but they control that too by putting out propaganda that minimizes obscure clarifications and opinions to the contrary of the modern LDS version of Truth.  If that isn't enough, church leadership penalizes, or otherwise makes the member feel guilt for having an opinion contrary to the sanctioned truths.<br /><br />At face value, people vote democratically to sustain other members, yet if one comes out in opposition, they are whisked away to another room or meeting, and face spiritual discipline.  The goals that are set are humanly non-achievable, and in itself, set the member up for internal destructiveness for not ever doing enough to build or fortify the kingdom.<br /><br />Even Joseph Smith could not keep things under control, nor did he leave specific instructions in writing as to what the members should do in his wake.<br /><br />Given that most of the current members of the church are fairly recent converts, the majority of those may barely comprehend the reaches of repentance doctrine, and have not sufficient background to search out discrepancies of the past. As a church, it is probably very ironic that many ex-communicated fundamentalist Mormons likely have a better concept of the righteous working doctrines, and limitations, due to their heightened research of ALL church doctrines, than most Mormons in full fellowship.<br /><br />It is sad that good members and priesthood holders do not search out doctrinal truths; most just want a comfortable American life, and relationship with Gentile neighbors; any more than that, would be 'pushing the envelope' and creating decisive barriers between them, and members of the church.<br /><br />Yet this book mirrors precisely the sort of information and opinions that all LDS members should study, verify, and digest as part of their true heritage. Mike Quinn comes along and re-reveals important correlations of the past.<br /><br />Quinn's assumptions and opinions are valid and truthful, and reflect something hidden. That members would not study and assimilate an honest work like this goes against the Lord's admonition to seek out the truth in all forms; they don't want to; it scares some of them, and the fence sitters will have to fall one way oranother.<br /><br />With knowledge come the responsibility to make a decision, and most members want the routine status quo, rather than to really follow God?s mandates that may, in turn, jeopardize the members current community standard; both within, and outside of, church doings.<br /><br />In the book, the priesthood, temple rites, polygamy, and  even the actions of past saints are all called into question.  That Mormon Elders robbed, plundered, provoked, publicly ridiculed, derided, and even murdered those who did not strictly adhere to doctrines of Joseph Smith, makes what may seem like God's \\"One and Only True Church\\" a cult-like institution.<br /><br />The same doctrine a missionary uses to bring others into the fold, is not the same doctrine and organization that Smith expounded and delivered as the  \\"Restoration Doctrine\\".  Even the priesthood, which many teachers use to set us apart from the 'apostate' churches did not come into full being until 6 years after the church was restored in 1830.<br /><br />The various offices of the priesthood as found in the \\"TRUE church of 1835-44\\" are not the same in character, position, and duty,  as those in the modern church.  After all that, we are regularly taught that in order to be in good standing with the Lord, all good members have to bow before the political kingdom and pay homage to our patriotic duty and laws, giving the law of the land precedence over the Lord's laws.<br /><br />Indeed, in order to get a temple recommend, one has to be in good standing with the IRS, and other man-made institutions of enslavement.<br /><br />Read the book, decide for yourself, see how you were [misinformed], and how much of the truth you accepted as such may not be the REAL truth.  The author IS a Mormon, a Mormon scholar, and a Mormon Professor at a Mormon University.  By uncovering the real truth found in public and obscure diaries and other writings, he too has had to make personal decisions.  To really get a grasp of Gods revealed truths no longer practiced in Gods ONE TRUE CHURCH, one should read the rest of anything compiled by  D Michael Quinn.<br /><br />See how far the True Church has fallen, the leadership failed, and doctrines of truth originally revealed, become subverted.cision, and most members want the routine status quo, rather than to really follow God?s mandates that may, in turn, jeopardize the members current community standard; both within, and outside of, church doings.      In the book, the priesthood, temple rites, polygamy, and  even the actions of past saints are all called into question.  That Mormon Elders robbed, plundered, provoked, publicly ridiculed, derided, and even murdered those who did not strictly adhere to doctrines of Joseph Smith, makes what may seem like God's \\"One and Only True Church\\" a cult-like institution.      The same doctrine a missionary uses to bring others into the fold, is not the same doctrine and organization that Smith expounded and delivered as the  \\"Restoration Doctrine\\".  Even the priesthood, which many teachers use to set us apart from the 'apostate' churches did not come into full being until 6 years after the church was restored in 1830.      The various offices of the priesthood as found in the \\"TRUE church of 1835-44\\" are not the same in character, position, and duty,  as those in the modern church.  After all that, we are regularly taught that in order to be in good standing with the Lord, all good members have to bow before the political kingdom and pay homage to our patriotic duty and laws, giving the law of the land precedence over the Lord's laws.      Indeed, in order to get a temple recommend, one has to be in good standing with the IRS, and other man-made institutions of enslavement.     Read the book, decide for yourself, see how you were [misinformed], and how much of the truth you accepted as such may not be the REAL truth.  The author IS a Mormon, a Mormon scholar, and a Mormon Professor at a Mormon University.  By uncovering the real truth found in public and obscure diaries and other writings, he too has had to make personal decisions.  To really get a grasp of Gods revealed truths no longer practiced in Gods ONE TRUE CHURCH, one should read the rest of anything compiled by  D Michael Quinn.      See how far the True Church has fallen, the leadership failed, and doctrines of truth originally revealed, become subverted.	2001-12-17
US	44383955	R3RHL6O7VFJBQM	8401451248	444191027	El principio de Peter	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Como funciona una oficina en la actualidad	He leido ste libro y se usa como guia y biblia para todo obrero del mundo hoy.  Examina doctrinas de administracin, Gerencias, co-obreros, y poltica de oficina.  Si no se lleva bien con toda doctrina corporada, quizs ser de que no est tan enterrado de como realmente funciona su lugar y posicin.  Al estudiar ste libro, va a poder navegar mas bien entre los chismes, calumnias, maltratos, y confusion en su trabajo que se emanezca desde los supervisores.<BR>El Principio de Pedro (Peter) viene de un doctor del negocio que ha estudiado varias compaias y sus maneras de actuar, reactionar, y poner reglas para otros seguir; reglas que por lo menos, no los conduzcan a sacar mas produccin, sino a cozechar mas obstculos.  Muy informativos y recomendado.  Nota: el lenguaje del libro pueda a hacer que no lo comprenda todo muy bien, porque est escrito por un Doctr.  Sin embargo, busque un diccionario, y no solo se aumentar su conocimiento de como funciona el negocio pero tambien mejorar su vocabulario.	2001-10-21
US	44383955	R2HGCMWDJMDPT1	1560850604	478287682	The Mormon Hierarchy: Extensions of Power	Books	5	29	45	N	Y	LDS church and policies: The GREAT ENIGMA	D. Michael Quinn has written an excellent book here (as well as other books) that most LDS members should read and analyze. History and actions of the past are, in general, lost to the current generations of saints.<br /><br />Not for lack of information, but because the mind of the regular modern saint is numbed and casual, and delving into doctrinal history is beyond their general comprehension or intention. There is no real way for any member of the church to distinguish the full scheme and organization of both the church, and deeper doctrine.<br /><br />Mike Quinn comes along and re-reveals important correlations of the past, and people become afraid of reading and deciding for their selves, whether Quinn's assumptions and opinions are valid and truthful, and reflect something hidden.<br /><br />That members would not study and assimilate an honest work like this goes against the Lord's admonition to seek out the truth in all forms; they don't want to, it scares some of them and the fence sitters will have to fall one way or another.<br /><br />There are people that denigrate D Michael Quinn for his efforts.  Yet, there are many things about the History, Prophecy, and contemplation of World and Celestial events by the LDS membership and LEADERSHIP that just do not seem to add up or correlate with 'after-the-fact' review.  The most current prophet of the LDS Church has told countless people, members and not, to discount the teachings of prior presidents of the church, church history, mandates, old teachings and doctrines, and actions of key general authorities.<br /><br />The most perplexing thing is either one has to accept Joseph Smith's doctrine as true restoration, or Brigham Young's doctrine.  One cannot accept both, as they contradict each other.  If the latter Young's doctrine is accepted, then Joseph Smith's work, prophecies, and church organization has to be made null.  Who restored the true Church and the Real Church of Christ's Doctrine?  Whatever theorganization was during Smith's tenure, it would be apparent that Young changed divine rules and guides, thus apostasizing and changing the order that God set up through Joseph Smith.<br /><br />The Mormons, in spite of the promises of the Smith period, had now become a subjugated cult under Brigham Young.  Smith had even ordained 4 people to take charge of the Church in his absence or death, and yet Young, would not allow it and changed things around.<br /><br />That is why the Mormon Church is an Enigma, and the current leaders see to it that no key document can make its way out of the Salt Lake Temple Vault, into the hands of informed scholars, who by studying and reading these same documents, could prove a different course than the one taken since the founding of the church.  Even Mike found many contradictions and power struggles.  His mistake was revealing his concerns publicly, which caused the church leadership to kick him out of the fold.<br /><br />Church leaders discount the work by stating that for the human element, thoughts and directives are only 'human', and thus, mistakes were made but the work is still blessed in spite of flaws in the leadership.  Yet the words of the Doctrine & Covenants state that \\"this is a house of order...\\"  Either the organization is wholly correct, or the tenets preached represent an 'order' that does not exist.	2001-10-21
