US	44381728	R2HXJPQGATG6QI	0744004330	360494197	Mortal KombatÂ : Deception Official Strategy Guide (Signature Series)	Books	1	20	20	N	N	Incomplete, Innacurate, and hard to read	BradyGames strategy guides...always a hit or miss endeavor.  Unfortunately in the case of Mortal Kombat: Deception, this strategy guide soars far and wide into the 'miss' category. <br /> <br />For starters, the movement commands are tiny...so tiny in fact that you have to strain your eyes and hold the book close up to your face just to interpret the commands!  A good portion of the character's special moves are dead wrong, with either incorrect button or directional presses.  The combos listed are done very half-heartedly...instead of laying out the combo button by button, which is what strategy guides normally do, they opted to use only the name of the combo moves, which, if you bother using the guide, would result in you constantly consulting each of those moves to see what their button combinations are. <br /> <br />Fatality fans be warned...the guide barely has any of the character's finishing moves.  Most of the chracters who are listed have only one of their fatalities listed, and in some rare cases their 'hara kiri' move as well.  However, more than half of the 24 playable characters don't have any of their finishing moves listed, period.  And a few of the finishing moves listed are completely incorrect! <br /> <br />The strategies given for the characters are rather uninspired and half-hearted.  The authors have included a 'Kodex' in the back of the book as an excuse for not having more than half of the character's moves, stating that there are a series of codes on the BradyGames website that you use the Kodex to decpiher.  There happen to be no such codes on the website, further demonstrating the overall useless quality of this strategy guide. <br /> <br />I'm sorry to say that you are far better off just getting a strategy off the internet...this guide is ultimately unfinished and uninspired, and I was rather angry to have wasted my money on it.	2004-10-15
US	44381728	R2V5HNQQ6GJ8AE	0785113304	446741188	Spider-Man/Dr. Octopus: Negative Exposure	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Simply excellent	Having just recently began my interest in comic books again, I was no doubt eager to get back into the 'swing' of things with my life-long favorite, Spider-man.  J.M. Straczynski's work on Amazing has been excellent, but Spider-Man/Doctor Octopus: Negative Exposure really stands out as one of the best Spider-man tales I've read in a long time. <br /> <br />Spidey and Doc Ock are at it yet again, and Daily Bugle photographer Jeffrey Haight(wrongly misprinted as 'Jeff Brasi' on the back cover) is at the end of his rope with Peter Parker.  Jealous of the young photographer's success with Spider-man photos, Jeff wants desperately to make it to the front page, even if it means conspiring with an individual who is just a little more than dangerous... <br /> <br />This collected volume features some truly great artwork and color.  The characters all look distinctive and personalized, and the action sequences are clear and very well done.  The story itself is fairly deep and Jeff's internal monologue gives alot of insight to his character.  In fact, the story is much more about his dilemma than anything else...Peter/Spidey barely show up at all throughout the comic other than for those crucial moments in battle or encounters with Jeff.  The story itself is also more 'fantastical' rather than the 'real world' trend that Marvel has been following as of late.  This was a welcome change. <br /> <br />The timeline of this story will probably be confusing to most people...at least it was for me.  Negative Exposure does NOT correspond to any concurrent continuity in existing Spider-man titles.  What this actually turns out to be is an 'Untold Tale' of Spider-man.  The time period can be estimated somewhat accurately, as Peter and MJ are not yet going steady, and there is a brief if subtle mentioning of Gwen Stacy.  Peter is also still a young college student in this tale.  The only inaccuracies are the fact that Doc Ock has his up-to-date current look.  Complaints aside, this wasa great story, and if you don't already have the individual comics themselves, then I highly suggest picking this one up.  You will not be disappointed.  Coming from a life-long Spidey fan who is getting back into the swing of things after an 8 year hiatus from the comics, I can say that this is one of the best stories I've read in quite some time.	2004-09-23
US	44381728	RDOWPCVQ2TGCQ	0785112529	21308536	Venom Volume 1: Shiver TPB (Spider-Man)	Books	1	14	22	N	N	Oh, Marvel...what have you done?	Venom.  The very mention of that word has many different meanings for many different people.  But for most of us Spider-man fans, Venom is synonymous with a nightmarish, sadistic monster that nearly ended Spider-man's webslinging career on more than one occasion.  But that was the past...unfortunately Marvel's trend of inking and penning less-than-stellar story arcs for its classic characters has hit Venom harder than it ever has.<br />Many fans thought Venom was ruined when he became the 'Lethal Protector' and received a short run of several limited series...a few of which were quite good, but most of which were rather ridiculous.  However, Venom: Shiver certainly takes the cake.  The combination of writer Daniel Way and illustrator Francisco Herrera simply do Venom no justice whatsoever.  <br />For starters, the art is horrific.  It looks like something out of a cheap Saturday morning cartoon...Venom is apparently a shapeless, amorphous blob that ranges from being about the size of a man to the size of a small elephant.  The characters are all blocky and disfigured, with little detail save for the exaggerated bumpy and misshapen faces.  Oddly enough, the cover art for each individual part, all included in this TPB, was rather outstanding.  Why such great work wasn't applied to the actual comic is beyond me.<br />As for the story...well, if you've ever seen John Carpenter's 'The Thing'(1982), then you basically don't need to read this comic.  To say it was inspired by it would be understating it...to say it blatantly ripped it off would be much more accurate.  Everything from the arctic setting, military base with a 'secret project', to the mysterious dog, to the mistrust among the people...everything just seems completely ripped from Carpenter's cult horror classic.  And to top it all off, Venom is apparently being chased by the Men in Black...except this lone agent is a robot from another planet.  And it now seems that the Venom symbiote must survive by leaping from host to host, draining the host of all of its body fluids and killing it to survive, but also mimicking the host to keep itself disguised(again, a blatant rip off of The Thing)...funny, but that sounds more like a parasite than a symbiote.  I guess Eddie Brock's bond with the alien that we've known for the past 2 decades didn't count?  Or maybe this just happened over night...who knows what they're trying to do.<br />Overall this is one of the worst Marvel stories I have read in years.  The Clone nonsense with Spider-man turned me off to Marvel back in 1997, and if I wasn't such a fan of the Punisher, Captain America and The Ultimates(Avengers retelling), then this garbage would once again completely turn me off to Marvel Comics.  Shame on you Marvel, for ruining another classic character from my era.  Bloody, bloody shame!	2004-06-22
US	44381728	R336QW6FBPI5TT	0785109609	885504710	The Ultimates Vol. 1: Super-Human	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Humanizing the Superhuman	Not particularly fond of Marvel's Ultimate line, I usually approach any of Marvel's 'Ultimate' series with hesitation.  However, I was never that big into the Avengers, so I figured I would give The Ultimates a shot, and I was very pleased with the results.    Once again re-imagining and re-telling the story of one of their most famous super groups, Marvel captures a whole new dimension of story-telling with the Ultimates.  Making them seem like real, ordinary people with real problems is probably one of the best parts of the entire story.  Of course, there is plenty of action and fighting to go around too.  Alot of the character's origins and general appearences have been changed too.  For example, instead of Tony Stark having a terminal heart condition, he now has an inoperable brain tumor.  Nick Fury is probably the most dramatic change, in that instead of being a grizzled, cigar chomping World War II veteran, he's a blatant Samuel L. Jackson look-alike with attitude and spunk.  An interesting reworking of Fury, but I could've done without it, despite how it fits with the story.  Hank Pym and his wife Jan Pym, Giant Man and Wasp respectively, have marital problems, with Hank being an abusive, chronic alcoholic.  The entire comic seems to revolve around the telling of everyone's personal lives, which gives all the characters alot of depth.  Finally, Thor is the son of Odin from Asgard who has spent more than his fair share of time in a mental institution, and is now a peace-loving pacifist...until it comes time to defend the world.    From Tony Stark's pompous, rich jerk attitude to Captain America's good old American spirit, The Ultimates is definitely worth the read.  The interesting spin on the Hulk and other story elements make this one of the best Marvel re-tellings yet.  The only thing that bothered me was that the comic got a bit too political at times.  I appreciate seeing the inclusion of real-world problems into the comic, making it that much more realistic and adult, but sometimes it got just a wee bit critical and outspoken.  But all in all, The Ultimates was a fantastic read that I just couldn't put down.  When I got to the end I was thirsting for more, and The Ultimates: Volume 2 definitely delivers after this great introduction.  Great job from Marvel.	2004-05-22
US	44381728	R3SO400449K1JN	1569712778	55909428	Godzilla: Age of Monsters	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great collection of Godzilla comics	I've always been a life-long Godzilla fan...making sure to catch every flick for the past 22 years, and loving every one of them.  I was thrilled in the early 90's when Dark Horse comics came out with a limited run of Godzilla comics.  This TPB collects the first half of those stories, starting with 1987's King of the Monsters one-shot release, an original black and white Godzilla comic that was a huge hit with G fans.  <br />Following the story of a group of scientists called 'G-Force', Godzilla: Age of Monsters details Godzilla's initial attack in 1954, and begins years later with G-Force researching ways of incpacitating and studying Godzilla for the benefit of all mankind.  The stories range from very good to utterly cheesy...the same kind of cheese and ridiculous plot twist you would expect in any Godzilla film...the megalomaniacal space-apes, for example.  I wouldn't have it any other way, of course.  The writing and dialogue follows the Godzilla movie formula perfectly, making for an entertaining read.  The stories are mostly continuous, but some of them are independent of one another.  Heck, there's even one story that may as well be called 'Predator vs. Godzilla', except instead of an 8-foot intergalactic hunter going after humans, you have an group of 80 foot intergalactic hunters going after Godzilla.<br />These stories are like an 'alternate universe' storyline for Godzilla.  Much like every single Godzilla movie that has come out in the past decade, Godzilla's origin in this comic series is retold yet again, giving a different reason and account for his 1954 appearence, and making no mention of any movie that followed thereafter. <br />The art in this book is very good...Godzilla is represented faithfully as his mid 90's movie design.  The enemy monsters are pretty creative, and the action is well-illustrated.  But I have one, major gripe with this book.  Dark Horse took the cheap way out in publishing this TPB, and printed the entire book in black andwhite.  I distinctly remember the originals being in color, and in a book like this, the lack of color really detracts from the detail.  I would assume it was meant to keep consistency, since the original King of the Monsters book was in B&W, and the subesquent 1990's comic series was color, but I was very disappointed that they produced this TPB in B&W.<br />Otherwise, this is just a great comic that will please any G fan.  I definitely recommend this for your collection.  It was a joy to read.	2004-04-28
US	44381728	R1CHBZ61G1QND5	1569712786	406170005	Godzilla: Past, Present, Future	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Another great addition to Godzilla literature	The final part of the 1990's Dark Horse comic series, 'Past, Present, Future' has Godzilla fighting the familiar intergalactic space apes of previous movies, which was an added bit of ridiculous plot twist we Godzilla fans all know and love.  This book practically features 'Godzilla vs. Predator', but instead of the 8 foot intergalactic hunter going after humans, you have a group of 80 foot intergalactic hunters going after Godzila.  Interesting, and very different.<br />The main focus of this comic is Godzilla being transported throught he past, present and future, causing disasters such as the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in Pompeii, the sinking of the Titanic, and th 1909 San Francisco Earthquake.  A mad scientist, who looks like something out of a cheesy 1940's space adventure comic, is a rather ridiculous character, but like the first trade paperback in this series, the corny plot twist is a welcome and familiar aspect of Godzilla, but this was definitely the lowest point of the Godzilla storyline. <br />Unfortuantely, Dark Horse ended its Godzilla run before they finished it...so the final story ends poorly and abruptly, with Godzilla and G-Force about to engage in a huge fight...a fight which never comes, since the series ends.  I would've liked to have seen more Godzilla comics from Dark Horse, so if they ever decide to revive it, i'll be the first one to pick it up...though I sincerely doubt it will happen.<br />Like the first TPB 'Age of Monsters', this book has been published completely in Black & White...most likely to save money.  Its unfortuante, since the lack of color from the original comics severely detracts from the detail, making some of the art panels difficult to interpret.  Otherwise, the art is good, and the stories have the classic Godzilla formula to keep them up.  <br />As far as Dark Horse Comics goes...they have undoubtedly put out some of the worst comics ever conceived...I would dare say even probably the worst in the entire history of American literature.  Luckily, Godzilla does not suffer from that...it was a good run that ended too early and abruptly.  Definitely pick this one up for your collection.	2004-04-28
US	44381728	ROHF0F8AF75D2	1569719837	147162679	Judge Dredd versus Aliens: Incubus	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Outstanding in all respects	As a long-time fan of the Alien Versus lines, I was rather intrigued to see that the Aliens have branched out of their normal battles with DC superheroes and have made the jump to 2000AD's famous Judge Dredd.  Having read the entertaining but mediocre Predator vs. Judge Dredd last year, I had minimal expectations for this comic, but I was very pleasantly surprised.<br />Perhaps the most noteworthy aspect of this comic is the fact that the Aliens get the respect that they so damn well deserve.  Most of the \\"Aliens Versus\\" comics end up having the Aliens as mere cannon fodder for the hero.  Not so in this comic...the Aliens are a horrifying, unrelenting menace...exactly the way they're supposed to be.  The story is very well written too...I didn't think they'd be able to come up with a decent explanation as to why Aliens have sudden infested Mega-City One, but it was neatly and clearly explained.  Unfortunately I am not a Dredd reader, so alot of the Dredd lingo and references went over my head.  Don't be taken back by that though...even if you are not familiar with Judge Dredd, the story is an easy read, and the general principle of Judge Dredd is easy to grasp.  You don't really need to be an avid fan to understand the workings of it.<br />The artwork is very well done.  The Aliens look excellent, and the rest of the characters all look gritty and worn.  This is definitely one of the gorier Alien/Dredd comics, and rather tastefully done.  The action is also nicely depicted.  Following a similar trait that our beloved classic \\"Aliens\\" had, this comic focuses on story, and then explodes with great action scenes, then goes back to story, and then back to action, rather nicely.  It never gets boring, and its paced enough to keep you interested.  I found myself pushed to finish the story and read through the entire book in one sitting, which isn't something I usually do.  I was overall very satisfied with the story and I definitely feel its one of the best \\"Aliens Versus\\" titles that I've read in a long, long time.  <br />For most of my 21 years, I've been a comic book fan.  In the last 5 years or so, I can say with confidence that Dark Horse has put out some of the absolute worst comics ever written, particularly with their Alien and Predator stories, Versus or otherwise.  But Dredd vs Aliens was definitely a fine example of Dark Horse crossover writing.  There was no Resurrection inspired monstrosities, no ridiculous mutations, and no new gimmicks...the Aliens were the same mechanisms of death and destruction that the first 3 Alien movies painted them as.  I wouldn't have it any other way.  Kudos to Dark Horse and 2000AD for an absolutely thrilling and fun crossover.  This is well worth your money!	2004-03-16
US	44381728	R2N44XWJGV9RAP	1401200818	302612666	Batman: Aliens 2 (Batman (Graphic Novels))	Books	2	12	14	N	Y	Ridiculous	The first Batman/Alien crossover was phenomenal...with excellent art, a great story...and one of the most interesting aspects of all was that it spun off directly from a 'Dark Horse Presents' short Aliens story.  However, Batman/Aliens 2 suffers from what most other Dark Horse/DC Crossovers have done as of late...purely ridiculous storylines.<br />The story starts out well enough...early in the 20th century an explorer and his party high up in the mountains discover a hive of Aliens on Earth.  After mass casualties, the explorer returns...obsessed with the Alien he is carrying inside him, and making sure to preserve it.  Fast forward to the present, in Gotham...the explorer's underground facility is found, and huge plot hole or two later, one very old alien is loose in Gotham under the control of one of the explorer's cohorts, who herself is holding a dark secret.  <br />Decent enough, but when an organization raids Arkham Asylum for some of Gotham's worst (resulting in one of the most hilarious and memorable Joker lines in recent history), the story just takes a turn for the worst.  Soon, after another plot hole, we have Alien mutant hybrids running around that talk, wear army fatigues, and carry guns. <br />I almost threw the book down in disgust near the end, but I forced myself to finish it.  It was probably too much to ask to see a Batman/Aliens sequel that was as good as the original, which is the case with most comic book sequels, but they definitely could've done better than this.  It seems that Alien Resurrection not only ruined the movie franchise, but the comic franchise as well, in that this book has the same general idea: cloned, mutant Aliens that are horrible mockeries of the original creature.  I could've lived with Aliens that had taken some of the characteristics of the villains, but not the mockeries that were in this book.<br />Maybe I'm being too hard on it...it is a comic book after all, and comic books are all subject to fantasy and interpretation...but is it too much to ask to leave the Aliens the way they were meant to be, and not follow in the footsteps of the abysmal Alien vs. Predator vs. Terminator comic, or the Alien: Resurrection ideas?<br />I don't recommend this comic to anyone, unless they are die-hard Alien or Batman fans.  Even then, unless you like either Batman or Aliens no matter how awful the story is, you probably won't like this comic.  I'm very sorry to say that this is one of the worst Dark Horse/DC Crossovers I have ever read, and certainly one of the stupidest Alien mutations I've seen yet in the comics.	2004-01-17
US	44381728	RFLTUN38YY6IX	1569711674	700804854	Superman vs. Aliens	Books	5	15	17	N	N	One of the best Dark Horse/DC Crossovers	Superman/Aliens is definitely one of the finest examples of the Dark Horse/DC versus crossovers.  Combined with great story telling, great artwork, and many twists, this is one of the finer examples of crossover writing.<br />When a chunk of what appears to be Krypton is discovered drifting deep in outer space, Superman takes it upon himself to investigate, through means of Lex Luthor's space program, no less.  What he finds there is a horror beyond all imagination...what remaining people there were are long dead...victims of monstrosities beyond the likes of which Superman has ever seen.  With only one survivor there, his means of escape destroyed and his powers diminishing from being away from the yellow sun of Earth, hope fades fast for Superman and the lone survivor 'Kara'.  When a shocking turn of events overtakes them both, what will happen to the man of steel in the end?<br />This book has many great twists in the story, and the horror of the Aliens is very real...despite all his powers, Superman is quickly becoming weak, and the Aliens are quickly becoming a match even for Superman.  There is a sense of urgency and dread throughout the entire book, and the great writing will keep you glued to the pages all the way through the end.  This is the best DH/DC crossover to feature Superman yet, and I highly recommend it to any fan of Superman, Aliens and DH/DC crossovers.  You will not regret it!	2004-01-17
US	44381728	RC8ICFIO9XWSS	1569719632	437687953	Superman/Aliens 2: God War	Books	3	7	9	N	Y	Decent, but doesn't live up to the first crossover	Most crossover sequels never do live up to their predecessors, but as far as most DC/Dark Horse Crossovers have been as of late (completely abysmal), Superman/Aliens 2 is rather good.<br />Superman visits old friends on New Genesis, but a shadow of a threat looms in the form of Apokolips.  Darkseid has somehow managed to get a hold of Aliens, and he sees the creatures as a means of permanently wiping out New Genesis.  Testing the creatures on his own people first, Darkseid is satisfied with the results and launches a massive attack on New Genesis that fails miserably...or does it?  Soon, the thousands of beaten Apokolips soldiers have Aliens rip from their chests, to Superman's familiar horror.  Chaos ensues and the fate of New Genesis is in the hands of Superman and the New Gods.<br />This is a pretty good crossover...there are no ridiculous mutations or hybrids like in recent books.  Unfortunately, the Aliens are made a mockery of by the New Gods...the Aliens do not really get the respect they deserve, as they are easily fended off and beaten in most encounters.  The overall story itself serves as more development in the Apokolips vs. New Genesis storyline, but overall the Aliens factor in almost as a minor inconvenience rather than a horrifying threat.<br />It can't be expected of a sequel to live up to the predecessor in most crossovers, but Superman/Aliens 2 isn't a bad attempt.  The first crossover is one of the best DC/DH ever pulled off, and it would be hard to top it.  I enjoyed this comic and recommend it to any Superman/Alien fan, just don't expect the Aliens to do much.	2004-01-17
US	44381728	RYD4E3TXE2TJV	1569714762	294870836	Superman vs. The Terminator: Death to the Future	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Nice concept, but could'v ebeen much better.	Superman vs. Terminator was an inevitable crossover...what with Batman vs. Predator, which was probably the greatest DC/Dark Horse cross over ever, and other similar crossovers, Superman was bound to end up going head to head with the Terminator eventually...so was it good?  Well, yes and no.<br />Superman vs Terminator is just a bit too over the top...taking place presumably after the events of Terminator 2, the story begins with Sarah and John fleeing into Metropolis, being chased by Terminators.  Superman is on the scene right away, and he soon realizes that he's not dealing with any ordinary foes.  The story is decent enough, with some very nice art work.  Many of Superman's allies show up, including Supergirl, Steel and some others.  Of course, Dark Horse and DC, despite excellent crossovers in the past, have really managed to screw up their stories as of late.<br />Completely out of the blue, hundreds of Terminators start coming in from the future, and out of nowhere begin to get Jet-Pack upgrades, elastic body parts, multiple arms...presumably attempting to put an interesting spin on the story, but only succeeding in making it a little too silly.  Superman is then transported into the future to put a stop to it, while Supergirl, and even Lex Luthor, protect John and Sarah in the past...though Lex as usual has his ulterior motives.  While in the Future Superman runs into old allies, as well as a familiar enemy from the past serving as a powerful ally to the Terminators.<br />The overall concept is very interesting...but its just a little poorly executed.  While not anywhere near as good as the Batman Vs. Predator crossover, or Superman vs. Aliens, it definitely isn't anywhere near as bad as Aliens vs. Predator vs. Terminator, which was undoubtedly one of the worst crossovers ever.  Superman vs Terminator sits nicely in the mediocre range...it has very good artwork, very nice twists (especially at the end), and though it suffers from some silly additions, its overall a good read and a welcome addition to any collection.overall a good read and a welcome addition to any collection.	2004-01-17
US	44381728	R1NBUK1K7VH50U	1573441449	759679118	The Ultimate Guide to Cunnilingus: How to Go Down on a Woman and Give Her Exquisite Pleasure (Ultimate Guides Series)	Books	4	116	123	N	Y	A very useful book	This is a very good book, and it successfully managed to improve my sex life.  With the techniques learned in this book, you can definitely give your lover pleasure without pain.  The descriptions are short but to the point, and the techniques are what really get detailed in the book.  There are also some chapters that inform you about the dangers of cunnilingus, such as disease and the effect that bad hygiene can have on both people.  There are safety tips, cleanliness tips, and foreplay techniques.<br />While this book is helpful for both men and women, it was clearly intended for lesbians.  There's nothing wrong with that at all, but it just limits the information a man like myself can use.  Most, if not all the illustrations in the book involve two women, and about 1/3 of the entire book covers relationships between lesbian lovers, and techniques and activities that could only be done between them.  The author even stresses the fact that she is a lesbian, and that the book is intended mostly for that audience.  Despite that, the book is helpful to both men and women, and I thought that it was very informative, well thought-out, and the author wasn't afraid to use coloquial language...no 'beautiful flowers' or 'godesses' in this book...just general terminology and slang, making it easier to read and understand.  Definitely a great book for men or women looking to improve their sex life.	2003-10-31
US	44381728	R15Y2FY63HHJYS	0595192033	451256169	Reign of the Dead	Books	4	39	46	N	N	A gruesome, entertaining book.	Being a fan of Night of the Living Dead and other assorted zombie movies, I was very intrigued when I happened upon Reign of the Dead.  After reading it, all I can say is that I was thorougly impressed.<br />The story itself isn't very complex.  A man named Jim Workman retreats to the Blue Ridge Mountains for 3 weeks to get away from society for a while.  Going through divorce proceedings and a rough time on the job, he didn't want any contact at all with the outside world...no phone, no tv, not even a radio.  When he returns after his hiatus, he finds the world to be a very different, horrifying place.  From there, the terror and action begin.<br />While not the best writer in the world, the author certainly captures the essence of George Romero-esque zombies.  While there certainly wasn't much anything new in terms of zombie behavior that we've all probably seen in classic films, the author definitely keeps your attention with the details.  The descriptions and behavior of the ghouls in the book are very easy to picture, and genuinely creepy.  There were a few minor spelling errors and other grammatical mistakes, but nothing to suddenly become an English Professor and start ranting about.  They were so easy to overlook that you would have to be determined to find grammar errors to actually notice them.  The only real problem I had with the writing was that the chapters were so short.  There was over 100 chapters, each one no more than 1 or 2 pages long.  Some chapters were nothing but a single paragraph.  The writer could've easily just condensed many chapters into one, which would have made the book a bit more managed.  Since there were so many short chapters jumping to and fro, following multiple plots, it just felt very jumbled and disorganized.  Some of the characters are rather poorly conceived, and many of the names (Jim Workman, for example) just seem so made-up.  Despite that, most of the characters are very likable.<br />This book borrows pretty much everything you can learn from movies like Night of the Living Dead, Dawn of the Dead, and others, but reading and watching a movie are two completely different things.  I found some of the descriptions in this book more gruesome than anything I've actually watched in zombie flicks, yet at the same time it was not as over the top and disgusting as some of the scenes in zombie films.  However, there are some parts that are generally disturbing, and I would warn those that have a weak stomach about certain scenes.  I had to put the book down for a while after one particular scene in the prison that was a little too disturbing for my tastes.  It was definitely an unforgettable part of the book.  <br />The best part about it is that I absolutely could not put the book down.  It was a fairly short book, and I tore through it in only 2 days.  I finished more than half the book in one day, and the rest of it the next.  That may be attributed mainly to the fact that the book was so short, and the text was large, but it was also very gripping.  I had a strong urge to finish the book and I was very satisfied in the end.  My overall opinion of the book was that it was a great read, and something a bit different than what I usually read.  It was suspenseful, terrifying, gruesome and entertaining.	2003-10-27
US	44381728	R2NQSKNCKT1YHX	0743426908	625556247	Lord of the Clans (Warcraft, Book 2)	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	An excellent book, and my favorite of the series	Many who have been long-time fans of Warcraft know about the 'Greatest Adventure Game That Never Was'.  Warcraft Adventures: Lord of the Clans was a complete departure from the traditional strategy formula of Warcraft.  Becoming a point and click adventure, using cartoonish animated sequences, Blizzard Entertainment ultimately cancelled the ill-fated game due to quality assurance reasons.  However, this story was far too important to the Warcraft Lore to ignore, hence it was transformed into a novel.  And I must say, I am not only impressed with how the novel turned out, but I also personally feel that this is the best book in the series.<br />When a baby Orc, barely a year old, is found alone in the forests surrounding Durnholde, a cocky and scheming human named Blackmoore takes the baby in.  Entrusting the baby to his servant, Blackmoore plans to use the Orc to his advantage.  As 20 year pass, the Second War has long been over, and the once tiny and innocent baby grows up to become the mighty Thrall, raised in the care of cruel human masters, while his people whither away in deternment camps.  This tale spans Thrall's life from his tragic beginnings to his final victory.  Over the course of the book, familiar characters, such as the ferocious and mighty Grom Hellscream, play key roles in the development of Thrall and the story.  While I do not wish to tell any more about the story than I already have, rest assured that many more familiar characters make surprising appearences in this book, as well as some of the new characters in this book making appearences in Warcraft III.<br />Although I must agree with what others have said about the book being somewhat predictable, I found it to be a very intriguing read.  Much like Day of the Dragon before it, I found this book difficult to put down.  Perhaps the strongest aspect of this book was the raw emotion that went into it.  As I read this book, I found that I cared for Thrall so much that my emotions matched his.  Ican honestly say that this book did everything from make me laugh, to make me feel Thrall's rage, to utterly breaking my heart (and that's no easy thing to do).  The fact that this occurred only further proves how well this book was written.  <br />As with Day of the Dragon, all of the lore in this book was true to the Warcraft history.  Despite being done by different authors, Day of the Dragon and Lord of the Clans had no differences from one another.  Clearly Blizzard had controlling interests in the development of these books, and that is a very good thing.  I found Lord of the Clans to be very similar to Gladiator, as well as a few other films and books.  These similarities are not bad at all...they only lend to the overall quality of the book.<br />Those that took an interest in Thrall in Warcraft III and wanted to know of his humble beginnings will be able to do so with this book.  It ties in completely to the game and true Warcraft fans will love this book.  As a standalone book, once again I recommend that those not versed in Warcraft lore pass.  If interested, it makes for a great read, but only those familiar with Warcraft history will understand everything that occurs in the book.  This was definitely a great, moving book and I was very satisfied in the end.	2003-08-08
US	44381728	R23KVPVDUAQCRL	0671041517	502843733	The Last Guardian (Warcraft, Book 3) (No.3)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Another great addition to Warcraft Lore	Of all the books in the Warcraft line, I cannot say that this is my favorite, however it was one of the most intriguing.<br />Going way back into the days of the first Warcraft game, The Last Guardian tells the tragic story of Medivh.  Since it was not well explained in the first Warcraft game, I found the chronicle of Medivh and his apprentice Khadghar to be an excellent read, and very insightful to the long history of Warcraft.  <br />When the young wizard from Dalaran, Khadghar, is sent to Medivh's tower to be his understudy, young Khadghar is in for the greatest trial of his life.  The great magus himself, Medivh, welcomes Khadghar into his tower, and Khadghar becomes his apprentice.  The days and months that follow prove to be some of the most influential in the war against the Orcs.<BR>Since there are many twists and surprises in this story, I do not wish to further my synopsis.  Though it is vague, the general idea is there.  <br />This book is very different from the others, in that it does not really focus on the war between Orcs and Humans...it centralizes on Medivh and Khadghar.  Although the war is a crucial part, it is not the main subject of the book.  Instead, the book is entirely about Khadghar's trials within the tower and Medivh's struggle within himself.  It was very different...and very good.  I was pleased to see a story based on the early days of Warcraft.  There are familiar characters, and the book even dabbles into the origins of the half-orc Garona, a key figure in the first Warcraft, who unfortunately was never truly explained.  Her motives and origins were completely ignored in the first game, so much that even true, veteran Warcraft fans have probably long forgotten about her and her actions by now.  This book does a great job of explaining her, and her ties to Medivh and Khadghar.  Furhtermore, the book also successfully explains Medivhs re-emergence into the Warcraft 3 storyline.  Personally, I was extremely disappointed to see that the storyline with Medivh was ignored in Warcraft III: The Frozen Throne.  Though good, the expansion ignored both the Orcs and Medivh, which is troubling, considering how great The Last Guardian is, and how much it makes you appreciate and realize just what Medivh actually is.<br />I give this book only four stars because the book is packed with spelling, grammatical, and Warcraft lore errors.  While the errors of Warcraft lore are kept to an absolute minimum (there are no more than a handful, if even that), the sheer amount of spelling and grammatical, and even negligent errors are very noticeable and drag the book down as a whole.  Having read Jeff Grubb's work before, I can affirm that he is very prone to this.  Otherwise, this book was excellent, and I hope to see another Warcraft book in the future.,<br />As usual I recommend this book only to those versed on Warcraft lore.  However, this book is based in the early days of Warcraft...if there is one thing the author did very well, it was of keeping the story accessible to newcomers as well, since it is very descriptive, and doesn't refer too much to things that only seasoned Warcraft veterans would know.  Definitely a great read.  Finally, the origins and secrets of Medivh are revealed, and I was very impressed.	2003-08-08
US	44381728	R3LBAW7F7IY3V8	0671041525	895901061	Day of the Dragon (WarCraft, Book 1) (No.1)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	An outstanding read!	As a long time fan of the Warcraft games, ever since its humble beginnings in the early 90's, I have often wondered about the battles that you do not hear about or participate in during the game.  Day of the Dragon is an excellent story set in the final days of the Second War, after the tremendous victory of the Alliance over the Horde.<br />I found this book impossible to put down.  Normally, a book based on a video game would be received as silly and pointless.  Not so with Day of the Dragon.  The Warcraft saga itself has a huge, detailed story, which has always been the backbone of the games.  Bringing the story to novel form not only proves to be a great idea, but a huge success as well.  I felt strongly for the characters in this book, and everytime I told myself that I was going to read 'just a few more pages', I ended up spending another hour tearing through the book.<br />True fans of Warcraft have always appreciated the deep story, and Day of the Dragon delivers.  When the Second War ends, the Alliance forces begin to round up the last of the Orcs.  However, internal struggles within the Alliance lead to border disputes and even the threat of war between the once allied nations.  When a mysterious individual befriends noble King Terenas of Lordaeron, he is chosen to be the new leader of Alterac, a nation that betrayed and was ultimately subjugated by the Alliance during the height of the second war.<br />The Kirin Tor of Dalaran is alarmed that they have not been informed about this, and yet a bigger threat still remains.  The Dragonmaw clan still maintains control over the once free and noble Dragons.  The conclave of mages selects a young, trouble-making yet resourceful wizard named Rhonin to look into this matter, accompanied by a beautiful and devoted elven ranger.  Along the way, they will make new allies, and face new enemies...as well as a terrifying nemesis thought killed during the second war. <br />This book kept me reading from beginning to end.The author's storytelling is superb and all of the facts in the book are true to Warcraft lore.  There were virtually no inconsistencies, and the descriptive imagery strongly reminded me of the Warcraft games, and I was able to picture all of the events with ease.  My only gripe is that the ending seemed a little rushed, as if the author realized he was running out of time or nearing his limit and had to close several of the loose ends rather quickly.  Otherwise, the shocking twists and surprises in this book, combined with the excellent action sequences and engaging dialogue make this a great read for any true Warcraft fan.  I recommend this strongly to those versed in Warcraft lore however, since those unfamiliar with the games may find the read too confusing or difficult, with many questions that onlyWarcraft veterans would know.  Otherwise, this is probably one of the best books i've read in a while.	2003-08-08
US	44381728	R300DZ95Y0AA1	1569713456	728736754	Predator vs. Judge Dredd	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not too bad	First off...I can't really say I'm a fan of Judge Dredd.  Great concept, but I could never get into the comic.  Being a Predator fan and knowing a little bit about Dredd I thought it would be an entertaining read, and it actually was.<br />Far in the future, when a post-apocalyptic earth is mired in lawlessness, three 'Mega-Cities' come from the darkness.  The last remnants of humanity come together in these cities, and to enforce the law, the Judges are set loose on the streets.  When a Predator comes to Earth for the hunt, Judges start disappearing and are found to be the victims of the Predator's grislty hunt.  Dredd takes it upon himself to hunt this killer down, only he has no idea what he's up against, and it could very well be the fight of his life.<br />Its a surprisingly decent story...I wasn't expecting much out of it but it kept me reading.  I really enjoyed it, and the art work was pretty good too.  The cover is pretty hilarious...and don't worry, no giant Predator eats Judge Dredd.  But as for odd things, Dark Horse is usually right there with bizarre, almost ridiculous plot turns.  One of the characters in the book is a descendant of Dutch Schaefer, Arnold's character form the Predator film.  Dark Horse has a penchant for just putting these bizarre twists in their stories which don't make them better, but actually take the quality of the story down.  But overall, Dredd vs. Pred is pretty good and I recommend it to any Dredd or Predator fan.<br />Hopefully Dark Horse will improve its comics...Dark Horse has utterly ruined the Terminator comic franchise with ridiculous stories, and Predator and Alien have done nothing but take a big plummet the past few years.	2003-07-08
US	44381728	R15IHJ4P9NWWUP	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	0	2	N	N	An entertaining, intriguing book	Michael Crichton's latest work comes in a most unexpected way.  I found Prey to be a refreshing change from the usual Sci-Fi novel fare.<br />The book revolves around a man named Jack Forman, an unemployed but brilliant computer programmer who had created a 'Predator-Prey' software program.  After a series of bizarre incidents, Jack is mysteriously called back by his former employers to go to a lab in the Nevada desert.  Once there, Jack realizes the horrifying truth: his 'Pred-Prey' program has been used to create a new type of nano-technology that would be used by the government as a high-tech surveillance device.  But something has gone horribly wrong.  A large swarm of the nano-machines has escaped into the Nevada desert, and it is evolving at an alarming rate.  Not only is it learning to adapt, but it is also preying on living things to sustain itself.  The swarm must be destroyed, but doing so may prove more difficult than anyone had ever imagined.<br />Now you may be asking yourself &quot;So what's so scary about a cloud of microscopic machine particles?&quot;  Well, leave it to Crichton to make something like that scary!  The vague summarization I gave doesn't do the book justice.  Its more of a brief synopsis to pique your interest.  The book actually consists of 3 parts.  The entire first part of the book revolves around Jack's life as an at-home dad.  Huge problems are devoloping with his wife Julia, who he suspects is having an affair, and his inability to land a job is getting to him.  This entire section of the book is great because of the sheer amount of character development.  Many complain about this part of the book moving too slowly, but I found it to be quite interesting.  In fact, I wouldn't have cared as much about the character of Jack Forman had this section not been so thorough.  One reviewer throws a hissy fit over the interaction between Jack and his kids: a young teenage girl, a pre-pubescent punk little boy, and a baby daughter.  I mustsay I found nothing wrong with the dialog between them.  Anyone with kids could tell you that the dialog pretty much sums up your typical teenager and punk little kid with complete accuracy.  The character development alone is one of the book's best qualities.<br />After the first portion of the book, we are transported to the lab in the Nevada desert, where the action takes place.  I admit that when I first read the blurb about this book I was skeptical.  I approached it with limited interest, but once I started reading it I was intrigued.  By the second part of the book, Crichton hits you with so much technical and scientific information that its almost too much to take in.  But if you read through it and allow your brain to absorb it, the explanations become clear.  The concept of why the nano-swarm attacks and 'devours' its prey is explained...and even if you don't catch it, its not difficult to grasp.  Once you realize what the base structure of the nano-machines are, it becomes obvious why they must attack and devour. <br />Even so, there are details that are left out which would tend to confuse the reader.  Also, I found myself somewhat disinterested in a few of the side characters.  Crichton introduces them briefly but never goes into much detail about them, which results in a rather unconcerned attitude towards those characters.  Otherwise, the characters that have an impact develop over the rest of the book rather well.<br />The action in the book is pretty well done.  I felt a sense of urgency for Jack, and there were some parts during the book that made me cringe.  Other parts were exciting, others were nerve-racking, and most were just plain tense.  It was tough to put the book down, and when I got to the final third of the book I found myself reading non-stop until the end.<br />One of the most remarkable and impressive aspects of the book has got to be the Bibliography.  When you see how much painstaking research went into the book, you'll realize that all that technical mumbo-jumbo that Crichton spewed out on so many of those pages is actually relevant, and you'll appreciate the work that went into it and be able to take in all the knowledge.  It almost seems too incredible and ubeleivable to be real, but most of the information that Crichton put into the book was entirely accurate, which takes the book up a notch (and makes the future of technology seem not quite as safe anymore...).<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  Its never gets so technical that you just want to put it down, and it never really drags either.  Its definitely not another Jurassic Park, but its a worthy read nonetheless.  If you're looking for a book that will entertain and thrill you, then pick up Prey.  Its not going to be the next Great American Novel, and if you're expecting an utter masterpiece then you will be disappointed.  I see alot of criticism for this book that is just completely asinine.  Either people need to lay off the No-Doze or they just need to be able to keep an open mind and accept this book for what it is: a well-researched, science fiction/science fact adventure that will keep you reading til the end.  I won't go as far as saying that this is one of the best books I've ever read, but when I was finished with it, it just felt good to read an intriguing and entertaining book.	2003-06-21
US	44381728	R2449X84HIYQ8X	0415921392	977541428	The Routledge Historical Atlas of Presidential Elections (Routledge Atlases of American History)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent resource	Having the privilege of studying under Dr. Mieczkowski for 2 full years, as well as having worked as research assistant and having him as my Undergraduate advisor at Dowling College on Long Island, I can affirm to you that Dr. Mieczkowski is definitely a well-educated and intelligent person.  This book helps to prove that point.<br />I agree with other reviewers that the book did require some better editing.  There are noticable errors in it, particularly in the maps.  Otherwise, this book is very handy.  The summarizations of each election, dating back to the first ever Presidential election to the most recent Presidential election of 2000, are short, concise and well-researched.  Some of the more pivotal and landmark elections generally have more information.  The accuracy and detail of each summary definitely shows the extensive research that went into the book.<br />This book proved to be a very handy and crucial resource to me in my studies at Dowling College, and is an excellent resource to any Presidential or general American Historian.  Despite minor flaws, this is a worthwhile book and I highly recommend it to any professor looking for a secondary class resource or to any student looking for a resource to help them in their studies.	2003-06-18
US	44381728	R2G4ZL948OS275	1569715688	385812401	Aliens vs. Predator vs. Terminator	Books	2	27	28	N	N	huh?	Well I can't deny it...i absolutely love the Alien, Predator and Terminator.  So when I heard of the crossover that pit all 3 against each other, I was thrilled...until I bought it and read it, that is.<br />This is probably the most convoluted and bizarre story yet in the Aliens vs. Predator universe.  It hardly consists of any of the 3 fighting each other at all...at least not to the extent of which the cover and blurb on the back would have one assume.  The story tells of John Connor and the resistance defeating Skynet, only to have Skynet reawakened years later by Terminators that have gone into deep cover, posing as scientists.  To assure victory, samples of Alien DNA have been used to construct a new generation of Terminator, which the Predators see as a great threat of war.  <br />If it sounds ridiculous...it is.  The story is bizarre and goes in all different directions.  And worse yet...it spins off of Alien: Resurrection.  That alone makes me not like this comic, aside from the bizarre story and sub-par artwork.  The story even has Ripley 'become' a Predator.  So...she's human, she's Alien, and now she's Predator.  The book just gets worse and worse as you go on.<br />I suppose if you are a fan of any or all of the characters, like I am, it should pique your interest.  But the sloppy and senseless story combined with the elements that made Resurrection such a bad movie, not to mention the lack of attention paid to detail both in artwork and in story, just make this comic unreadable.  This is a crossover that had so much potential, and it could have been in so many different, better ways...but it turned out to be nothing more than an attempt to throw 3 popular franchises into one book as a cash-graber.  Buy this if you are a collector and want it for your collection, but don't bother reading it.  Otherwise just stay away from it completely.	2003-04-27
US	44381728	RWUYULDRSCD5K	0785110143	971039469	The Punisher Vol. 3: Business as Usual	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good, but no where near as good as the previous volumes...	The continuing saga of Marvel's toughest anti-hero  is as strong as ever, but this particular collection isn't quite as good as the previous two.    The first story alone warrants the 3 star rating...it is really good. The Punisher heads to South America to rescue a kidnapped mob leader and bring him back to New York, which will hopefully prevent a full-scale mob war between the families. Full of the trademark grit and dark humor associated with the previous Punisher stories, this is probably the best story in this particular volume. And poor Detective Soap manages to get himself into yet another scandalous situation...delivering some hilarious comic relief.     The next story features a 'team-up' between Punisher and Wolverine...and its hardly a team-up at all, more along the lines of a hilarious beatdown on Wolverine! This is the most bizarre but funny Punisher story yet, and is just a little bit too silly to be taken seriously. I wasn't particularly fond of the overall story but I'll look past it, since Punisher's 'mistreatment' of Wolverine had me laughing hard enough to go red in the face. Wolverine's trademark temper and the Punisher's no-holds barred approach to things make for an entertaining read, but it is the overall silliness of the plot that drags the actual story itself down.    The final story finds the Punisher heading to Northern Ireland to combat terrorism, based on a tip-off he received from an old friend in British Intel. Redeeming the rather dull Pun/Wolvie story before it, this is an intriguing and serious look at the reality of terrorism in Northern Ireland, and as usual is full of the trademark humor and gritty, dark attitude of the Punisher. Definitely a good read.    Overall this was a great volume, its just the writing in the crossover that really drags it down. It could've been so much better.  Nevertheless, I wouldn't say I don't like this volume, i'm just rather disappointed in it. Perhaps the next time will be better.	2003-04-15
US	44381728	R2B7O1ISJM1AXO	0785108394	882583669	The Punisher Vol. 2: Army of One	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Great series, but not quite as good as the first!	Following in the steps of the previous series, the Punisher is no less violent or dark.  But it lost a bit of its edge this time around.<br />Don't be confused...the story is still great.  A brief and rather funny, one-sided \\"team-up\\" between Spider-man and the Punisher against a familiar and unexpected enemy adds some great humor to the book.  The Punisher finds himself later heading to a remote island where a traitorous para-military American force is planning a horrible terrorist act to deal out some indiscriminate justice.<br />The Ennis/Dillon duo, along with Jimmy Palmiotti, manage to once again weave an engaging and action-packed story with its fair share of blood, violence, and wicked sense of humor.  Its a great book because it takes itself seriously, but at the same time has just enough humor to get you to laugh to yourself.  I would say this falls short of the standards set by the first one only because there are a few aspects about it that are a little silly, and some parts of the story just don't add up too well.  Nevertheless, in the end, we have a good, solid story with great artwork and entertaining characters.  Definitely worth the purchase.	2003-04-14
US	44381728	R28RH8UEH54PNN	0785107835	223439464	The Punisher Vol. 1: Welcome Back, Frank	Books	5	3	4	N	N	He's BACK!	After a long hiatus, the Punisher has finally been resurrected along with some of the other Marvel 're-tellings' that have been so popular as of late.  <br />Still on the hunt, the Punisher had vowed many years ago to get retribution for the wrongs done to him by the mob.  The Punisher sets his sights on the Gnucci family, a powerful mob family headed by 'Ma Gnucci.'  Along the way The Punisher encounters a new enemy simply called 'The Russian,' a goofy yet deadly Russian powerhouse that's nearly impossible to kill.<br />The team of Ennis and Dillon is outstanding.  I was excited to see the Punisher come back, and the team have done a fantastic job.  A combination of excellent writing and illustration, the Punisher stands out.  Like Most Marvel \\"Knights\\" and Marvel \\"MAX\\" series comics, \\"The Punisher: Welcome Back, Frank\\" is absolutely not intended for younger audiences.  Something I appreciate from Marvel as of late is its attention to those of whose who grew up with the likes of the Punisher and Nick Fury and others...these comics are clearly intended for us.  <br />The story in itself is great.  The writing is superb and the Punisher's internal dialogue always manages to generate a chuckle or two.  His attitude and demeanor are exactly what you would have come to expect of a man of his background: gritty, cold, emotionless...with a twisted sense of humor.  Hilarious side characters like 'Detective Soap' and 'Spacker Dave', and a few serious side characters add to the story overall.  This collection also includes 'The Punisher Destroys the Marvel Universe,' a short that has a psychopathic Punisher go on a quest to slay absolutely EVERY Marvel Character created!  This doesn't tie in to the main story however, think of it as a 'What If...' type of situation(where I beleive it was adapted from in the first place).<br />If you are or were ever a fan of the Punisher, then you cannot pass this up.  This is definitely a great comic collection, and one of the best I've read in quite some time, probably second only to \\"Fury.\\"  It's been a long time since the Punisher has had his day, and its about time this classic character returned.  Welcome back Frank, indeed.	2003-04-14
US	44381728	R22ODWG2FVBDA8	0785108785	685956280	Fury MAX (Fury #1-6)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the greatest comics I have ever read...period.	Seeing The Punisher return to fame was a great thing indeed.  So when I saw 'Fury' I was reminded of Marvel Comics way back in the day...when S.H.I.E.L.D. was teaming up with the likes of Spider-man and the Avengers, averting evil and keeping megalomaniacal super-villains at bay.  Kiss those memories goodbye...this ain't your daddy's Nick Fury.<br />In a trend that i'm really, really liking from Marvel Comics, Fury departs from the age old 'Good guys vs. Bad Guys' formula so common these days.  This comic has a great, involving story.  And it is NOT for the kids.  There is a warning right on the cover that it is intended for Mature Readers...a warning that should be taken seriously.  The violence in this comic could probably scar a kid for life...and that's one of the things I love about it.<br />An older and seemingly forgotten legend, Nick Fury is fed up with what S.H.I.E.L.D. has become: a massive technical corporation of suits, lawyers and computer prodigies.  The old S.H.I.E.L.D. is long gone.  When Nick Fury runs into an old rival from his past, who suggests they start their own little war on an island in the South Pacific, Fury finds himself torn between taking him up on that idea or throwing it aside.  But when Fury sees an uprising on Napoleon Island, and his 'pal' Gagarin standing beside a revolutionist leader, Fury takes matters into his own hands.<br />That's barely a taste if the whole story.  Like the rebirth of the Punisher, Fury is an ultra-violent, obscenity-riddled, action-packed, and very intelligent story.  I put comic books down a long time ago, but I can honestly say that Fury, like the Punisher, has exploded my dead interest back to life.  I honestly have not read a comic book this good in quite some time, and that's saying alot.  I enjoyed Fury even more than the Punisher.<br />The art in the comic is great.  Every character is well defined and lifelike.  Coloring is great, and there's subtle hints of symbolism that you'll find that just makethis comic a damn good read (think the 'fire in the eyes' scene from Platoon).<br />Overall, the comic is chock full of action, violence, profanity, gore, and a little bit of sex.  This is definitely a new direction for Marvel Comics, and I absolutely love it.  By all means...if you are even REMOTELY a fan of comic books, or if you are a fan of the Punisher or the classic Nick Fury comics, I very highly recommend this.  You will be shocked, and you will be impressed.  It will definitely keep you reading until the end, and I hope that Fury continues...this book had all the makings of a blockbuster movie.  Fury's Ramboish demeanor is great, I would take this comic over an action movie any day.  Superb job on Garth Ennis and Darick Robertson's parts.	2003-04-10
US	44381728	R1LUSQDXBRFV62	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the best and most entertaining books I've ever read	Who would have known that J.R.R. Tolkien's dark, war-ravaged epic fantasy Lord of the Rings would have sprung from such an innocent, light-hearted adventure?<br />When a peace-loving Hobbit named Bilbo Baggins has his humble home visited by the legendary wizard Gandalf the Grey and an entourage of 13 dwarves, Bilbo finds himself embarking on a quest that will take him all across the great lands of Middle Earth, meeting a host of characters and creatures both friendly and not, and stumbling across great treasures and wild predicaments.<br />I truly feel sorry for anyone who would dismiss the Hobbit as a \\"children's book.\\"  While it may have been intended that way, it hardly reads as so.  The Hobbit is intelligent, gripping, sophisticated and wondrous.  I found that I always had a smile on my face for the greater portion of the book.  Tolkien's vivid and often times comedic approach to Bilbo's situations help convey an intriguing and entertaining story that can be enjoyed by anyone.<br />The characters, for the most part, are very well developed.  The main characters (Bilbo, Thorin, Gandalf) get the most attention, but Tolkien balances the 12 remaning Dwarves and other side characters quite well.  Bilbo's encounter with Gollum is chilling and memorable, and the finding of the Ring seems so very insignificant in the grand scheme of things...yet who would've known that such an innocent discovery would have led to the tragic, dark and terribly evil events to follow in Tolkien's legendary Lord of the Rings?<br />This book should definitely keep you enthralled and reading to the very end.  Like I said earlier, though this may have been intended to be a children's book, it hardly reads like one at all.  I don't ever remember reading any books way back when I was a kid that were this epic, descriptive or intelligent.  All you need is an open mind with a little twinge of fantasy, and you'll definitely enjoy the Hobbit.  You can't read the Lord of the Rings without reading the Hobbit out of principle.  I don't know why I waited so long to read this book, but now that I have, I am very glad that I did.  It's probably one of the best books i've ever read.  I very highly recommend it to anyone remotely interested in fantasy.  Most of the fantasy today is inspired by The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings.<br />This Leatherette Collector's Edition of the book sports some illustrations inserted into key areas of the book,gold embossment on the cover of elvish 'moonletters' and runes, as well as a leather sheath for the book.  Definitely worthwhile for any Tolkien fan!  On a side note, if you REALLY want to add dimension and life to the characters, I suggest watching The Fellowship of the Ring and The The Towers either before or just after you read this book...Gandalf and Bilbo and company just have so much more personality afterwards!Hobbit out of principle.  I don't know why I waited so long to read this book, but now that I have, I am very glad that I did.  It's probably one of the best books i've ever read.  I very highly recommend it to anyone remotely interested in fantasy.  Most of the fantasy today is inspired by The Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings.<br />This Leatherette Collector's Edition of the book sports some illustrations inserted into key areas of the book,gold embossment on the cover of elvish 'moonletters' and runes, as well as a leather sheath for the book.  Definitely worthwhile for any Tolkien fan!  On a side note, if you REALLY want to add dimension and life to the characters, I suggest watching The Fellowship of the Ring and The The Towers either before or just after you read this book...Gandalf and Bilbo and company just have so much more personality afterwards!	2003-04-06
US	44381728	RBMO9DIJKZXVG	0671525557	429411950	Knee-Deep in the Dead (Doom, Book 1)	Books	4	33	33	N	N	A classic game, a sappy but entertaining novel	I remember the day I walked into Borders and saw this book on the shelf.  It was 1995 and I thought Doom was the best thing in the world.  So I bought it on impulse.<br />Capturing the the mood and tension of the game, Knee-Deep in the Dead is surprisingly good.  Full of action and comedy, the main character 'Fly' Taggart is actually a very likable character.  The mystery of the demon invasion and the horror that ensues makes for an entertaining read.  It's a wonder how the writer managed to screw up the series with Infernal Sky and EndGame so badly when this book turned out to be so entertaining.<br />In any case, the book follows the plot of the game pretty well, and ends with the door blown wide open for the inevitable sequel: Hell on Earth, which was also relatively well written.  <br />Credit must go to the author: A decent book based on a classic, mindless shoot 'em up slaughterfest that had little plot to begin with. I still think, 7 years later, that its a fairly decent book and great for a time-killer or weekend read.	2002-07-23
US	44381728	R3VQXY3PWR57SR	0671525662	856719424	Endgame: A Novel (Doom #4)	Books	2	7	14	N	N	Loses the idea behind Doom...	I remember reading this book when I was about 14 years old, I bought it the moment it came out.  That was about 6 years ago.  Looking back on it, I recall that it was confusing and convoluted, so I picked it up again recently.  My opinion hasn't changed a bit.<br />Completely departing from the very basic principle behind Doom, this book continues the off-the-wall plot of Infernal sky, taking our two main heroes into outer space, under the care of two alien beings called 'Sears and Roebuck', a stab at humor that works, but dumbs down the premise.  It turns out the 'demons' on earth are just weapons of a malevolent alien race that is at war with 'Sears and Roebuck's' own species, and humanity got caught in the middle by triggering the 'demon gate' on mars.  <br />In terms of the actual writing, I don't know whether the book is written for kids, or young adults, but it certainly seems a little too basic for adults.  In any case, I feel that the essence of Doom is lost in Infernal Sky and EndGame.  This novel ends abruptly, strangely, and makes very little sense in the end.  Where some find it to be an interesting new twist on Doom, I find it to be a confusing and convoluted book that is poorly written and ill-conceived.  Its entertaining, i'll give it that...but it ruins the essence of Doom.  Going from Hellspawned demons to alien creations?  That just doesn't cut it for me, sorry.  If it had stuck to the way Doom was intended, maybe it would've worked.	2002-07-23
US	44381728	R1N2J1G9AWP8S2	0671525638	69292221	Infernal Sky (Doom, 3) (No. 3)	Books	2	13	17	N	N	It goes downhill from here, folks...	Knee-Deep in the Dead and Hell on Earth were surprisingly great reads, but Infernal Sky marks the downfall of the Doom novel series.<br />Taking the battle from Earth to somewhere in outer space, we discover that the 'Demon Invaders' are actually the product of an agressive alien species.  A band of survivors on Earth get a transmission from an alien species claiming to be friendly, and the book steadily declines from there.  The group of heroes are transported to the home of 'Sears and Roebuck'(don't ask), a pair of alien beings who seek to help the group fight off the menace. <br />The author just seems to lose all grip he had on the concept of Doom.  The scary thing about Doom is the concept of battling Demons from Hell.  Revealing them to be simple creations of an alien species really doesn't sit well with me.  Everything that made the first two books good, such as tension, atmosphere and mystery, just disappears.  The story becomes convoluted and ridiculous, becoming more unbeleivable as it goes(as if that were possible) and just succeeds in dulling the senses.  Had I not been such a big fan of Doom back when I first read it, I would've put the book down before I was half-way finished.<br />I simply think the series could've been so much more.  The first two books were so entertaining, but Infernal Sky and Endgame just completely ruin it.  I'm sorry to say that a potentially good series was ruined before it really achieved its full potential.	2002-07-23
US	44381728	RW56JG2PD4HS2	1563890925	836079189	Batman Versus Predator: The Collected Edition (Dark Horse Comics)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A fun and thrilling cross-over	The title speaks for itself:  Batman vs. Predator<br />When a series of bloody, brutal murders suddenly strike an abnormally hot and humid Gotham city, the Dark Knight himself begins an investigation that leads to a near-fatal confrontation with the deadliest hunter in the universe, the Predator!  Totally unprepared for such a brutal onslaught, a severely beaten Batman must rely on more extreme methods to win...<br />Whether you like one and hate the other, or if you like both titular characters, you'll love this collection!  The classic atmosphere, drama and story element of the Batman comics is persistent throughout.  This particular story is also one of the bloodier Batman comics in its time, so this is clearly not one for the kids...<br />Probably one of the best aspects of this story is the mind games between the Predator and Batman.  The impact of the Predator on Gotham city is great, and after the first encounter leaves Batman almost crippled, the Predator has free run of Gotham.  Throughout this time, the Predator cleverly tries to lure the wounded bat from his cave, knowing that his prey has escaped him, and the Batman is, in fact, the greatest prey in this concrete jungle.  Some of the tactics involve manipulation of the bat-signal, to even a timely 'interruption' of an urgent phone call from the Commisioner to Batman himself!<br />As a fan of the Predator, and a former comic book reader, I can honestly say that Batman vs. Predator is one of the best comic compilations i have been able to pick up in quite some time.  While the two sequels it spawned were not quite as good, this particular story has enough atmosphere, story and action to keep you reading til the very end.  A great read if you are a comic book fan, and a MUST read for fans of either title character!	2001-12-17
US	44381728	R36T93T2ADIW8K	1569713723	862497865	Aliens: Kidnapped	Books	2	8	8	N	N	A mediocre Alien story at best	Most of the Aliens comic books have been great so far.  However, this particular story is not very interesting.  It begins when a band of smugglers go in to obtain some eggs from a Queen's nest.  When they arrive, they find that their comrades have all been killed, but also entirely stripped of their flesh and muscles, leaving nothing but bone behind.  The smugglers intrude on the angry queen, and after a brief scuffle, take one single egg that had been left untouched.  There is something odd about this egg however, as it is always secreting a strange substance.<br />When the egg is smuggled into a resort town on a distant planet, a playboy inadvertantly becomes the host for the facehugger in the infected egg.  After he is invited by a super-model to join her on a trip to her own personal resort, all hell breaks loose.  The alien egg had a flesh-eating virus.  Shortly after the chestburster hatches, it begins to spread the disease all across the resort. <br />Definitely not the best Alien comic i've read.  There is no real action, and the Alien doesnt live long enough to survive past the chestburster stage.  The story itself is also not very good.  It is a little convoluted and silly.  All in all, an Aliens short that definitely doesnt deliver based on the high expectations set from previous Alien comics.  This was a 2-part comic book and this book is the collaboration of the two.  Of you are an Alien fan and feel that you must own all the Alien comics for collector's purposes, then by all means buy it.  If you are looking for a new, interesting and action-packed story like all previous Aliens comics, then this is definitely not worth buying.	2001-06-21
US	44381728	RZ1O871JSOUT6	0553574930	161215457	Predator: Cold War	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not as good as the first book, but Predator fans will enjoy!	Concrete Jungle was the first novel in the Predator series, and probably the best.  Cold War tries to maintain that same feeling from the first book, but ultimately is not as successful.  The setting of the frigid Siberian Winter definitely delivers, and Predator fans may find it odd that the hunt is going on in such a cold area of the world, but that is explained by what seems to be a malfunction in the Predator ship that caused it to crash.  Now, the angry Predators have invaded a Russian Oil Pumping Station to find the materials needed for their ship, slaughtering ANYONE who gets in their way...<br />Call in Detective Schaefer.  Having first-hand knowledge of how to deal with the creatures after the New York incident the previous summer (the events in Concrete Jungle), General Philips abducts Schaefer during a drug-bust gone bad and brings him to a remote military outpost, where he is briefed on the situation.  When Philips promises to give information on his brother, Schaef reluctantly agrees to go along.  Soon the team of Detective Schaefer and Lt. Ligacheva, who lost most of her men in the initial Predator attack, must try to find a way to prevent the U.S. and Russia from launching all out war on each other to determine who gets 'custody' of the Predator ship, while at the same time fighting for their lives.<br />This book is very descriptive, and sets great environmental moods.  However, it fails to deliver the same feeling that the first book did.  There are also lots of questions that the book raises that are never answered which detracts from the story over all.  Other than that, it is a great read and Predator fans are sure to enjoy it.  The continuing story of Detective Schaefer and his quest to find out what happened to his brother is interesting and I hope to see more books in the future.  The Predator novels are all adapted from Dark Horse Comics mini-series, so we may actually see this continuing story in the future after all.	2001-06-21
US	44381728	R1M0TG6KHQ16KM	0553565575	90033443	Concrete Jungle (Predator)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An action-packed story that true Pred fans will love!	This book is a novelazation of the original Dark Horse comic.  It is far more descriptive and offers more background.  Can be considered the prequel to Predator 2.  It stars Detective Schaefer, Dutch's brother, a New York city homicide detective, who suddenly finds himself clashing head to head with a vicious alien hunter.  He recalls a story that his brother told him of a failed rescue mission in Central America where he lost his entire team.  He described a heavily armed creature that he battled, which the government covered up.  Could this be that same one?  There are many, many questions that are raised in this book, primarily the whereabouts of Detective Schaefer's brother Dutch, who disappeared shortly after battling the first Predator(see the first movie).  The story offers insight as to the habits of the Predators and possible solutions as to why they come here to Earth.<br />There are a few gripes with the book.  There is fairly poor grammar usage throughout and there are far too many questions asked, which detract from the story and will sidetrack the reader.  Detective Schaefer is also never named.  He is referred to throughout the entire book as 'Schaef' or 'Schaefer'.  Not a very big deal, but may annoy some readers.  It is also difficult to picture a blonde haired, blue-eyed Dutch(Arnold Schwarenegger)!!!  Other than that, there is not much else to say anything bad about that book.  The habits and behavior of the Predator are illustrated perfectly.  PRedator fans WILL enjoy this book!	2001-05-31
US	44381728	R2X4VC58U4E3E3	0312965737	905180108	Peter Benchley's Creature	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Simply a reprint of White Shark -- Dont buy if you own it	White Shark was made into a television mini-series for ABC and was re-titled 'Creature'.  DO NOT buy this book if you already own 'White Shark'.<br />The creature itself, a product of Nazi experimentation is awakened near a small island off the coast of connecticut.  A marine biologist soon finds himself fighting to save himself and the ones he loves from this bilogical weapon.  Most of us are familiar with the insane Nazi experiments conducted during WWII.  Attempts to re-animate the dead and create, quite literally, biological weapons in the forms of 'creatures' all were failures...as far as we know.  (Gamers may see similiarity between the video game Resident Evil and the real-life experiments of the Nazi regime in terms of 'Bio' weapons and 'zombies')  Read my review of White Shark for my full opinion on this book!	2001-04-30
US	44381728	RIF8F0T68LRHC	0312955731	905180108	White Shark	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Another great summer read	Don't let the title fool you, the shark is the last thing you have to worry about...  Frightening and involving, the story revolves around a marine biologist and a small island community which is suddenly being terrorized by unexplainable deaths and disappearences in the ocean.  The discovery of a fiercely territorial and pregnant great white shark gets the community in an uproar, but it soon becomes clear that it is not the great white making these attacks.  An aquatic creature, product of the nightmarish experiments conducted by Nazis during WWII in the search of more potent, biological weapons has been re-awakened.  Now it is up to the biologist, his friend 'Tall man', and a few others to put a stop to this creature. Terrifying and nerve-racking, the description of the creature and its movements and behavior is unforgettable.  YEt another fantastic summer read and a real page turner. The made-for-TV movie did this book NO justice.  Aptly renamed 'Peter Benchley's Creature', and then re-published under that name, the movie was completely awful.  The only good aspect about it was casting Craig T. Nelson (Of tv's Coach fame) as the main character, a good choice as he fits the role well.  Despite the atrocious movie, i strongly recommend purchasing this book.  Peter Benchley does it again!	2001-04-23
US	44381728	R11JP7GUF6N3FH	055357910X	69307456	Meg: A Novel of Deep Terror	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Incredibly entertaining! A real page turner!	Steve Alten's first published novel was excellent!  I agree with many other reviewers in that it is definitely a GREAT SUMMER READ!  Don't go to the beach if you are reading this book!  This book SCREAMS to be turned into a movie.  The descriptions and tension created by Alten keep you thirsting for more.  You would think that it is a very short book, when in fact you just cant put it down!  I read this book in the Summer of 1997.  I didnt want to go back to the beach again.  Another great aspect about it is that Alten provides an intelligent theory of what may have happened to the Megalodon, the gigantic prehistoric shark for which the book is named.<br />Alten's sequel 'The Trench' is not nearly as good as Meg, but i still highly recommend it.  IF you enjoyed Meg you will definitely enjoy the Trench.  <br />Steve Alten is a very good writer and I can't wait to read his next book, Domain!	2001-04-23
