US	44413569	R3I5UCXDUVHHK5	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	4	16	20	N	Y	Scrum-didlly-umptious!	Having lasted over fifteen years in the flavor-of-the-month-seeking world of television and overcome the objections of every idiot who dismissed it as lowbrow, The Simpsons has by now earned the status of an American institution, right up there with baseball, apple pie, and lying politicians.  With its enormous cast and the freedom that comes from its animated format, The Simpsons has become sort of a funhouse mirror for us all, reflecting and distorting the stupidity, shallow thinking, and hyprocrisy that are and probably always have been a part of everyday life.  Making constant use of irony, allusion, and satire, The Simpsons has also garnered from some the title of TV's smartest show, a claim I'd have a hard time disputing.  It's one of the few shows that give its audience some credit, assuming they have a basic grasp of history and literature and can grasp a joke that doesn't involve bodily functions or ethnic stereotypes.<br /><br />So, you might ask, what does this long-winded introduction have to do with anything?  Well, it helps to explain why a bunch of professional philosphers saw fit to give The Simpsons its own philosophy book, entitled, appropriately enough, The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer.  Just in case you had any doubts about how many levels The Simpsons actually functions on, this book should put them to rest.  The Simpsons and Philosophy is an expansive, comprehensive collection of (generally) highly accessible essays written by philosophy professors trying to use their love and knowledge of the Simpsons to introduce the show's viewers to some of the basic elements of philosophical inquiry.  The editors state flat out that they're not out to analyze the philosophical messages (if any) of Matt Groening & Co., but to use their discussions of the Simpsons as a springboard to get readers to delve deeper into philosophy themselves.<br /><br />On that level at least, the book is certainly a success.  These essays are consistently fascinating, connecting the show's messages to the thought of such heavyweights as Heidegger, Marx, Aristotle, Neitzsche, and Kant.  If you're a philosophical type, and you've been an enthusiastic Simpons-phile for as long as I have (I still have memories of watching the premiere of the first episode back when I was a lad of ten), you've probably watched most of the episodes so many times that you can dissect them at will, but this book still provides some nice reminders of why the show is so funny and holds up so well to repeated viewings.<br /><br />The show's much-discussed satirical edge naturally gets a great deal of attention here, but the book attempts to go deeper in examining the messages the show sends out.  For example, one particularly interesting essay, Paul A. Cantor's The Simpsons: Atomistic Politics and the Nuclear Family, raises a point that proves indisputable whether you've noticed it or not: even as the Simpsons relentlessly parodies every dearly held institution under the sun, from the family to government to religion, it constantly reaffirms their primacy in American life.  In a time of ever-increasing centralization and standardization, this essay argues, The Simpsons manages to remind people of the importance of the family and of local institutions.  Another highlight, James Wallace's A (Karl, not Groucho) Marxist in Springfield, takes that claim in an even bolder direction, arguing that The Simpsons's scattershot, equal-opportunity approach dulls its satirical effect and makes it just another perpetuator of the status quo of consumerism and exploitation.  You don't have to be a Marxist (I'm certainly not) to see his point.<br /><br />There's a lot more where that came from, as well.  Citing tons of specific examples, other highlights include discussions of what the show has to tell us about the Kantian notion of the moral life; what Mr. Burns has to tell us about the nature of happiness; how Lisa's experiences exemplify contemporary America's ambivalent attitudes toward intellectuals; whether Bart is a Nietzshcean overman; and just how ironic The Simpsons actually is.  As you may have gathered from the foregoing (woefully incomplete) list, The Simpsons and Philosophy hardly limits its scope to philosophy itself; instead it's a thoroughgoing examination not just of how The Simpsons reflects certain philosophical themes but of how it mirrors the time, place, and culture in which we live.  In other words, this book is far more than a dry philosophical inquiry; it's a cultural document in its own right, using the Funniest Show Ever to further illuminate the aspects of society that The Simpsons so sharply lampoons.  Needless to say, all Simpsons fanatics should check it out.rica's ambivalent attitudes toward intellectuals; whether Bart is a Nietzshcean overman; and just how ironic The Simpsons actually is.  As you may have gathered from the foregoing (woefully incomplete) list, The Simpsons and Philosophy hardly limits its scope to philosophy itself; instead it's a thoroughgoing examination not just of how The Simpsons reflects certain philosophical themes but of how it mirrors the time, place, and culture in which we live.  In other words, this book is far more than a dry philosophical inquiry; it's a cultural document in its own right, using the Funniest Show Ever to further illuminate the aspects of society that The Simpsons so sharply lampoons.  Needless to say, all Simpsons fanatics should check it out.	2005-08-04
US	44413569	R2PX04BMERQTIA	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Anarchy is order...or is it?	Befitting its lofty reputation in the graphic-novel genre, Alan Moore's V for Vendetta is a masterwork, a morality play of epic proportions, taking place in a possible futuristic England (actually, it's the late 1990's, but it was futuristic when the story came out) and bringing to life its author's frightful dystopian vision of a country on the brink.  David Lloyd's darkly minimal artwork perfectly mirrors the rot lurking under the orderly façade of Leader Adam Susan's fascist regime, a façade Moore's story penetrates to reveal the ugly truth that things are much as they are in any other society.  Corruption, intrigue, and double-dealing still rule the day, whether it be cops taking advantage of a naïve teenage girl trying to earn some extra money working a corner, the ambitious wife of a party official paying off a gangster to help ensure her husband's rise for her own ends, or a dirty old Bishop using his position to arrange for illicit sexual encounters with girls a bit, er, on the younger side.<br /><br />However, there a couple of true believers out there, namely Susan, who's abandoned any hope of luxury in order to devote his life to the Nordic race; and V, the book's title character, the unidentified terrorist trying to bring down the order that Susan and his followers have created to clear the way for a new, voluntary anarchist order.  It's the conflict between these two men and all they represent that frames the story, and while much of the attention is focused on V, there can be no V without a Susan, and the central tension between their ideals is always present.<br /><br />Now, the term \\"terrorist\\" has certainly acquired a decidedly negative connotation in this time and place, conjuring up images of Muslim fanatics piloting airliners into skyscrapers and planning God knows what else, and V does indeed commit some actions that could be considered reprehensible.  But as anyone who pays attention knows, one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter, and V seeks to bestow on the people of England the kind of freedom that few ever talk of, let alone achieve.  Hiding his visage behind a smirking Guy Fawkes mask, V is a sort of mix of the Phantom of the Opera and Fight Club's Tyler Durden, offering the people of England the tantalizing prospect of liberation from the prison that they themselves have created.  Transformed both physically and mentally by his harrowing tenure in one of the government's relocation camps after the post-Cold War ascension to power of the fascist Norsefire Brigades, V has now dedicated his life to performing stunning acts of violence and subversion, hoping to rouse the people of England from the comfortable chains they currently wear.<br /><br />Now, at this point it becomes necessary to distinguish between license, which many people the world over have, and freedom, which requires the kind of sacrifices that people in affluent societies like ours rarely contemplate. In this country, we talk of \\"freedom\\" (and launch wars in its name) while simultaneously paying confiscatory taxes and obeying ever-more restrictive laws, but V offers the real thing: the freedom that comes from having nothing to lose, from being ruled by principles rather than possessions.  It can be gained in strange places, such as the \\"prison\\" where V's young prot&eacute;g&eacute; Evey discovers hers, but it can never be bestowed or taken away from without.<br /><br />Of course, V for Vendetta leaves unanswered a crucial question, namely: do people really want freedom of the sort that V holds out?  Or do they just want order, comfort, and stability?  Under the rule of Susan, the people do have order, and uniformity, and propaganda disguised as entertainment (or is the other way around?) and a landscape unblemished by the sight of the yids, the darkies, the nancy-boys, and the beatniks.  Sad to say, that may be all they really want.  In V for Vendetta, V and Susan represent the two conflicting poles of mankind's desires, and it's not at all clear which one will win out.  It does, however, make for a pretty rousing read.and it's not at all clear which one will win out.  It does, however, make for a pretty rousing read. <br />	2005-07-07
US	44413569	R1KAKD2EMAMI6B	159330160X	816341345	The Empire Menaced: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Dearth Nadir	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Very interesting, methinks	Have you ever watched the ultra-revered Star Wars trilogy and just thought something along the lines of, Gee, everything's just a little too easy here?  I mean, come on: Luke and Obi-Wan are so innocent they practically squeak when they walk; Yoda's so impossibly wise he makes Gandhi seem like Stalin; the Emperor is as cartoonishly evil as Hitler, Mao, and Pol Pot combined; and in the end Darth Vader goes to being \\"more machine than man\\" in the words of Obi-Wan to loving father and redeemed hero.  Not to mention, the rebels, joined in Return of the Jedi by those adorable little Ewoks, are presented as pretty much the pictures of virtue compared to the stodgy old Imperial officers and their machine-like stormtroopers, even though we know little of either group's agenda.  If only real life were so cut-and-dried, we might not have to worry about electing tiresome prisses, windy demagogues, and petty tyrants to power on a regular basis.<br /><br />In other words, if anything's ripe for a good old-fashioned sendup, it's George Lucas's holy trilogy and its three-pack of recent prequels.  While it's certainly not the first such effort, Sean Miller's The Empire Menaced: The Unauthorized Autobiography of Dearth Nadir still scores plenty of points for creativity, ambition and wit.  Basically, The Empire Menaced is to the Star Wars movies what Shaun of the Dead was to George A. Romero's living dead trilogy: a parody of a sort, but one that takes its source material as a starting point to create its own world and its own inspired ideas.  To put it another way, where parodies like Mel Brooks's Spaceballs (still probably the best-known of them all) mostly just took broad (if sometimes funny) swipes at their target, the satirical slant of The Empire Menaced is more sidelong, injecting its author's skewed worldview into the Star Wars universe.<br /><br />It's all told through the viewpoint of the titular character, Dearth Nadir, later turned into Darth Vader in George Lucas's films (or electric shadows, as Dearth puts it), which apparently didn't get much right, especially the names of the principals.  It turns out ol' Dearth, tired of serving as lackey to the cranky, capricious Emperor, projected his consciousness out into space some 150 million years ago, or just in time for it to pass by our planet and get stuck in a primitive version of our Internet.  Dearth managed to learn about our history and culture while zipping around in the form of some packets of information in cyberspace, and eventually his experiences found his way into the mind of a young George Lucas, who ended up adapting them to the silver screen in greatly modified form.<br /><br />The picture of Dearth that emerges in these pages is, to put it mildly, significantly different than that of the Darth Vader generations of filmgoers have come to know and love.  This version isn't so much an embodiment of evil as a confused, philosophical, and deeply flawed individual, burdened by his tremendous gifts, insecure over his fatherless childhood and his ambiguous feelings for Queen Padthai Mandala, and tormented by relentless self-examination.  Fortunately, Dearth fits right into the parallel universe that Miller has created here: While the original trilogy was based on a stark good/evil contrast, episodes I-III (especially II) explored more ambigous moral territory through Anikin's gradual transformation into his Darth Vader alter ego, and The Empire Menaced basically takes that direction and runs relentlessly in it.<br /><br />To put it bluntly, the world Miller creates in this book is not a world of Right against Wrong, Good against Evil, Us against Them.  Instead, it's a good deal more mundane than Lucas would've had us believe.  The Jeteye are hypocritical guardians of the status guo, with an academy eerily reminiscent of an Ivy League school in its combination of feel-good egalitarian dogma and strict status-based social hierarchy.  The rebels, meanwhile, are tiresome Socialists spouting hackneyed leftist rhetoric.  The feared, vaunted Galactic Empire is here more a gigantic corporation than anything else, complete with a vast bureacracy and an Emperor who conducts corporate retreats in order to educate his underlings on the nature of evil.  Ranking second in command as he does in the movies, Dearth is keenly aware that he's just a cog in the vast machinery of the Empire, albeit an extremely powerful and important one.  In one of his many moments of brutal honesty, Dearth writes \\"Dearth Nadir wasn't, isn't a noble villain, a tragic anti-hero with a fatal flaw.  Look at the evidence.  He's a creepy state-sanctioned serial killer.  He's Mengele in snazzy black tights and a cape.  He's a carbonized chunk of radioactive fear with a half-life no longer than the shelf life of a Twinkie.\\"  Ouch.<br /><br />Ultimately, though, it's what Miller adds to his Star Wars takeoff that makes the book, as The Empire Menaced is chock full of high style, clever wordplay, heavy philosophy, and erudite allusions.  In one particularly memorable early passage, Dearth alludes to the dreaded Dearth Star \\"whip[ping] like a knuckleball through the vacuum of space,\\" launching a paragraph with more clever similes and metaphors than you'll find in some entire books.  There are also plenty of philosophical musings to be found, covering such diverse territory as love, the nature of free will, and the meaning of life; along with some references to modern Earthling debates ranging from globalization to the War on Terror (the desert planet inhabited by Muslims is a nice touch).  And you've got to love a book that can pull out a prolonged allusion to Dante's Inferno right after introducing a rapping, Ebonics-speaking Jar Jar Binks sendup named Jug Jug.<br /><br />While not everything works completely here (some of the sexual content is a bit gratuitous at best), The Empire Menaced is still one of the smartest, most innovative books I've gotten to read in a while.  Somebody else made a reference to David Foster Wallace in his review, and I think that's a pretty fitting comparison, as Miller shows a great deal of skill at incorporating all kinds of unconventional elements into his narrative without losing focus.  If you're a Star Wars fan, you should appreciate this book's alternate take on George Lucas's world and one of its leading characters, and even if you're not you still might get a chuckle and find some deep thoughts provoked at the same time.  Definitely a worthy read.iresome Socialists spouting hackneyed leftist rhetoric.  The feared, vaunted Galactic Empire is here more a gigantic corporation than anything else, complete with a vast bureacracy and an Emperor who conducts corporate retreats in order to educate his underlings on the nature of evil.  Ranking second in command as he does in the movies, Dearth is keenly aware that he's just a cog in the vast machinery of the Empire, albeit an extremely powerful and important one.  In one of his many moments of brutal honesty, Dearth writes \\"Dearth Nadir wasn't, isn't a noble villain, a tragic anti-hero with a fatal flaw.  Look at the evidence.  He's a creepy state-sanctioned serial killer.  He's Mengele in snazzy black tights and a cape.  He's a carbonized chunk of radioactive fear with a half-life no longer than the shelf life of a Twinkie.\\"  Ouch. <br /> <br />Ultimately, though, it's what Miller adds to his Star Wars takeoff that makes the book, as The Empire Menaced is chock full of high style, clever wordplay, heavy philosophy, and erudite allusions.  In one particularly memorable early passage, Dearth alludes to the dreaded Dearth Star \\"whip[ping] like a knuckleball through the vacuum of space,\\" launching a paragraph with more clever similes and metaphors than you'll find in some entire books.  There are also plenty of philosophical musings to be found, covering such diverse territory as love, the nature of free will, and the meaning of life; along with some references to modern Earthling debates ranging from globalization to the War on Terror (the desert planet inhabited by Muslims is a nice touch).  And you've got to love a book that can pull out a prolonged allusion to Dante's Inferno right after introducing a rapping, Ebonics-speaking Jar Jar Binks sendup named Jug Jug.   <br /> <br />While not everything works completely here (some of the sexual content is a bit gratuitous at best), The Empire Menaced is still one of the smartest, most innovative books I've gotten to readin a while.  Somebody else made a reference to David Foster Wallace in his review, and I think that's a pretty fitting comparison, as Miller shows a great deal of skill at incorporating all kinds of unconventional elements into his narrative without losing focus.  If you're a Star Wars fan, you should appreciate this book's alternate take on George Lucas's world and one of its leading characters, and even if you're not you still might get a chuckle and find some deep thoughts provoked at the same time.  Definitely a worthy read.	2005-06-29
US	44413569	R2I3FAVVG13ULY	0595237134	472266094	Nekkid In Austin: Drop Your Inner Child Down A Well	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A few more thoughts	Well, I've already written one fervently pro-Fred review on this site, but I'd still feel remiss if I didn't add some more of my thoughts to the pile, both to amplify what the guy below me wrote and to further refute what that one idiot wrote about Fred being a \\"racist\\" (do we even have a definition for that word now? It seems to mean about as much as the \\"alternative rock\\" label means in music by now). Anyway, much as some people might try to label him, Fred is a truly independent thinker, someone who's not bound by the conventions of any ready-made ideology. He's experienced a lot more of the world and its people than most of us could ever dream, and he's come away a refreshing perspective that doesn't smack of liberalism, conservatism, libertarianism, or really anything ending in \\"-ism.\\" To steal one of his own phrases from a recent column, Fred knows the people of other countries, and knows that they are people, a fact that often seems lost on his fellow Americans. Perhaps more to the point, Fred has enough experience with politics and the way the world works to see through the sloganeering, name-calling, and prejudice that so often substitute for debate in America (and probably everywhere else as well). In a world where people are constantly trying to give us easy answers, Fred is constantly questioning the conventional \\"wisdom\\" and trying to tease the truth out from the endless piles of rhetoric and deceit. Don't belive me? Here are just a few of the little bits of wisdom from his site (which I think are in this book, although I'm not sure how many of his columns made it in here):<br /><br />On the 9/11 attacks: \\"Our politicians and talking heads speak of 'a cowardly act of terrorism.' It was neither cowardly nor, I think terrorism. Hijacking an aircraft and driving it into a building isn't cowardly. Would you do it?  It requires great courage and dedication--which our enemies have, and we do not.\\"<br /><br />On patriotism: \\"To doubt the wisdom or necessity of a war, any war, is treason; any inclination to think for oneself is evidence of being in the enemy's camp. This is everywhere the rule.\\"<br /><br />On the so-called drug problem: \\"We're in Colombia and Mexico and Peru and God knows where because these folk work in the drug trade, and we have A Drug Problem. We have a drug problem because Americans want drugs. It's not Colombia's problem. It's our problem. Why don't we leave Colombia the hell alone?\\"<br /><br />On sex: \\"A man genuinely doesn't understand why he can't say to the young lady in the next cubicle, 'Hey, Jane, what say we go to my place at lunch for a roll in the hay?'  He may like Jane, think she's bright and fun, have no slight desire to exploit, use or degrade her.  They may have been friends for years.  But if he made what would seem to him a perfectly reasonable suggestion, she would explode and file at least a dozen lawsuits.\\"<br /><br />There are tons more such penetrating insights on Fred's site (updated with new column every ten days or so), from which this book and his other one are drawn. In a generally irrational world, Fred is a rare voice of reason (and a funny one at that), which explains why the mainstream media won't touch him with a twenty-foot pole. Honest discussion of taboo subjects is rare these days, which is all the more reason Fred deserves some of your time.r, is treason; any inclination to think for oneself is evidence of being in the enemy's camp. This is everywhere the rule.\\"     On the so-called drug problem: \\"We're in Colombia and Mexico and Peru and God knows where because these folk work in the drug trade, and we have A Drug Problem. We have a drug problem because Americans want drugs. It's not Colombia's problem. It's our problem. Why don't we leave Colombia the hell alone?\\"     On sex: \\"A man genuinely doesn't understand why he can't say to the young lady in the next cubicle, 'Hey, Jane, what say we go to my place at lunch for a roll in the hay?'  He may like Jane, think she's bright and fun, have no slight desire to exploit, use or degrade her.  They may have been friends for years.  But if he made what would seem to him a perfectly reasonable suggestion, she would explode and file at least a dozen lawsuits.\\"    There are tons more such penetrating insights on Fred's site (updated with new column every ten days or so), from which this book and his other one are drawn. In a generally irrational world, Fred is a rare voice of reason (and a funny one at that), which explains why the mainstream media won't touch him with a twenty-foot pole. Honest discussion of taboo subjects is rare these days, which is all the more reason Fred deserves some of your time.	2005-06-26
US	44413569	RPLJU23FZEF0K	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Economics for the ignorant	Emerging from a profile that one of its authors (journalist Stephen J. Dubner) wrote about its other author (economist Steven D. Levitt), Freakonomics transcends the tired politicking that we're so often subjected to and reaches for a deeper understanding of the world than the great majority of politicians and talking heads can provide.  Much like Michael Lewis's brilliant Moneyball did for baseball, Freakonomics takes a subject (okay, a bunch of subjects), dissects it, and holds it up in a completely new light that will have you rethinking much of the conventional \\"wisdom\\" that's been pounded into your head.  It's wildly addictive and incredibly fast paced (I read this book in less than 72 hours, and I'm not a fast reader), and Levitt and Dubner present their ideas in manner that's never less than utterly concise and direct.<br /><br />Although some of what it puts forth may appear complicated, Freakonomics rests on a fiendishly simple premise: if you can penetrate the rhetoric, propaganda, and obfuscation that permeate everyday life to an utterly ridiculous degree, then it's possible to develop a legitimate understanding of how the world works.  And since economics, as the authors stress, is at bottom the study of the incentives that drive human behavior, it's uniquely suited to help bring about such an understanding.  Another key point that's made repeatedly is that while morality explains the way the world should work, economics deals with the way the world *does* work, which is why Levitt is able to take such a rigorous and logical approach to the subjects he addresses here.  And it's quite a list of subjects at that, as Levitt applies the methodology of economics to fields as varied as criminology, real estate, education, sumo wrestling, and white supremacism.  In all cases, though, Levitt comes to some interesting and generally counterintuitive conclusions, with plenty of evidence to back them up.<br /><br />If there is a prevailing theme here, it's that much of what we like to attribute to human efforts is in fact determined more by genetics, by random chance, or by some remote cause that nobody even saw coming.  In other words, we have a lot less control over events than many of us like to pretend.  Fortunately, once we get over our faulty logic and specious reasoning, the book suggests, answers are everywhere.  For example, while the precipitous drop in crime during the 1990's was attributed to a multitude of factors (gun control, better policing, the bursting of the crack bubble, etc.), Levitt offers a much more mundane explanation: nationwide legalized abortion in the wake of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision, which prevented thousands of future criminals from being born.  Elsewhere, Levitt and Dubner examine what makes a \\"perfect\\" parent by analyzing the test scores of children from a variety of backgrouds, and comes to a conclusion sure to shock \\"experts\\" and obsessive parents everywhere: good parenting certainly doesn't hurt, but a child's academic performance (whether that child is black, white, or other) is determined largely by genetic factors, most notably IQ, and not by how many books are in a kid's home or by how many museums that child was taken to.  As the authors stress, some of the conclusions they reach may inflame some tempers, but Levitt's research isn't concerned with morality or politics, but with facts.  Of course, since facts are often in short supply from the more \\"conventional\\" media, its fact-based approach is precisely what makes Freakonomics such a worthwhile read.hat much of what we like to attribute to human efforts is in fact determined more by genetics, by random chance, or by some remote cause that nobody even saw coming.  In other words, we have a lot less control over events than many of us like to pretend.  Fortunately, once we get over our faulty logic and specious reasoning, the book suggests, answers are everywhere.  For example, while the precipitous drop in crime during the 1990's was attributed to a multitude of factors (gun control, better policing, the bursting of the crack bubble, etc.), Levitt offers a much more mundane explanation: nationwide legalized abortion in the wake of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision, which prevented thousands of future criminals from being born.  Elsewhere, Levitt and Dubner examine what makes a \\"perfect\\" parent by analyzing the test scores of children from a variety of backgrouds, and comes to a conclusion sure to shock \\"experts\\" and obsessive parents everywhere: good parenting certainly doesn't hurt, but a child's academic performance (whether that child is black, white, or other) is determined largely by genetic factors, most notably IQ, and not by how many books are in a kid's home or by how many museums that child was taken to.  As the authors stress, some of the conclusions they reach may inflame some tempers, but Levitt's research isn't concerned with morality or politics, but with facts.  Of course, since facts are often in short supply from the more \\"conventional\\" media, its fact-based approach is precisely what makes Freakonomics such a worthwhile read.	2005-05-29
US	44413569	R1AJ5SYK6U5DC3	0785261478	968590434	Bad Trip: How the War Against Drugs Is Destroying America	Books	4	27	27	N	Y	Governmental uselessness exposed (again)	If there's one cliche that has been blatantly overused in the past few years, it's that our government is fighting a \\"war on drugs.\\"  Sure, the government is pretending to wage it, but we all know the war on drugs has been over for years, if it even ever existed in the first place.  How exactly can we have a war on something so many people seem to want?  Next thing you know, the government will start telling people they can't gamble, or pay for sex, or smoke in a privately-owned bar (whoops).  Anyway, Joel Miller adds plenty of fuel to the raging debate over the drug war with Bad Trip.  This short, direct, and intelligent volume should convince anyone who hasn't been indoctrinated up to their eyeballs in governmental propaganda that the war on drugs (like most wars) isn't worth fighting.<br /><br />In one rather entertaining early segment, Miller takes the reader on a glimpse of the drug war's early days, illustrating the roots of the current mess in the first half of the 20th century.  There's plenty of unintentional comedy to be found when Miller discusses some of the attitudes regarding drugs (including alcohol) that were commonly held back in the twenties and thirties.  In one especially uproarious moment, in 1938 the Commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics actually wrote, \\"an overdose of marijuana generates savage and sadistic traits likely to reach a climax in axe and ice-pick murders.\\"  And then of course, there was Reefer Madness, the classic 1936 movie where a little toking resulted in PERMANENT INSANITY.  Now, having been around some pot smokers myself, I can say for sure that while marijuana use may result in giddiness, the telling of off-color jokes, and the consumption of junk food, it does not lead to violence or insanity.  Sadly, though, the ridiculous beliefs outlined above continue to inform the drug laws even in these more \\"enlightened\\" times, and Miller does us all a favor by casting light upon them.<br /><br />Of course, it's not drugs themselves that cause so much crime, it's the illegality of drugs.  If people can't obtain drugs through legal means, they'll just get them elsewhere, very likely from violent gangs.  Every halfway-informed person knows the same thing happened when alcohol was prohibited and gangsters took over the market, but apparently our politicians are slow learners (duh).  Essentially, Miller writes, the drug war is bound to fail due in large part to simple economics.  Drug dealers, he writes, are profiteers, while drug warriors are mere bureaucrats.  Since the sale and use of drugs are prohibited, the government creates a black market in which any willing person with some brains can turn an easy profit.  Therefore, the dealer trying to make a buck will always be ahead of the DEA agent who's getting paid anyway.  As Miller details in the chapter on drug smuggling, the tighter the noose of prohibition gets, the more inventive dealers get in the quest for money.<br /><br />Most tragically, though, since the drug trade is entirely voluntary and there are no victims to file complaints, governments have to resort to ever more proactive and draconian measures in order to catch dealers and users.  Warrantless searches, no-knock military-style raids, blanket traffic stops, and utterly unjustified confiscations have made a mockery of everybody's Constitutional rights while doing little or nothing to stem the flow of drugs.  Miller provides us with a laundry list of innocent people who have been robbed, terrorized, and even killed at the hands of overzealous (or outright corrupt) drug warriors.  In many cases, governments have established a giant network of informants to fink on friends, customers, and even classmates, often going so far as to entrap people into breaking the law.  Not to mention, the travesty of mandatory-sentencing laws has filled our jails with non-violent \\"criminals\\" who take up space that could be used for slightly more dangerous folks, like, say, muggers, burglars, and rapists.<br /><br />Ultimately, Miller writes, the war on drugs amounts to nothing more than a war on freedom.  There are plenty of other institutions in society, such as the family and the church, that can help prevent people from abusing drugs, but government prohibition merely creates a whole slew of new problems for all of us.  Accepting the fact that other people are going to do things you don't like is a necessary part of living in a free society, one that mature people are going to have to get used to.  After all, I don't think people should watch reality TV or listen to Celine Dion, but I manage to get over it.  Miller finishes with a quote from Thomas Sowell that sums up the issue better than I ever could: \\"What do people get out of using drugs?  I don't know...but there is all the difference in the world between deciding that you don't want to do something and trying to force other people to live your way.\\"  Amen.urglars, and rapists.   <br /> <br />Ultimately, Miller writes, the war on drugs amounts to nothing more than a war on freedom.  There are plenty of other institutions in society, such as the family and the church, that can help prevent people from abusing drugs, but government prohibition merely creates a whole slew of new problems for all of us.  Accepting the fact that other people are going to do things you don't like is a necessary part of living in a free society, one that mature people are going to have to get used to.  After all, I don't think people should watch reality TV or listen to Celine Dion, but I manage to get over it.  Miller finishes with a quote from Thomas Sowell that sums up the issue better than I ever could: \\"What do people get out of using drugs?  I don't know...but there is all the difference in the world between deciding that you don't want to do something and trying to force other people to live your way.\\"  Amen.	2004-11-16
US	44413569	R1KY8XD2BL0561	140396727X	693089266	The Bush Betrayal	Books	4	21	26	N	N	I'm still not voting for Kerry	If \\"The Bush Betrayal\\" serves no other purpose, it should make one thing convincingly clear: it's not just liberals who should hate our current president.  Attacking Dubya from a libertarian point of view, James Bovard demonstrates just how far the Bush administration has strayed from traditional conservative principles.  Covering a wide range of issues, Bovard rattles off a train of abuses that dwarfs those that caused our founding fathers to revolt.  Someone with either a very low IQ or a very low opinion of the American public recently referred to Bush as a \\"big-government conservative,\\" and after reading this book I can only conclude that that description makes about as much sense as calling someone a \\"small-government communist.\\"  In fact, after reading this book most people might be hard-pressed to find much difference between Bush and your typical dictator, aside from some vague lip service to freedom.<br /><br />In chapter after depressing chapter, Bovard reveals in detail how Bush's presidency has given us one statist disaster after another.  In the wake of the September 11 attacks, Bush used people's renewed faith in the government to justify an unprecedented expansion of its power, an expansion that affects all of us in very real ways.  Even many Republicans have spoken about against Bush's expansion and abuse of government power, but it obviously hasn't done much good as the budget deficit has skyrocketed and we've become even less free than we were under Clinton.  If you've ever wondered just how useless and inept our federal government is, this book is an invaluable read.<br /><br />This book should prove especially disheartening for those who think the Republican party represents any sort of legitimate alternative to the Democrats' long-standing support of big government.  In fact, if anything, Bush has made the situation worse, as he seems to be in a competition to see which party can waste taxpayer money faster.  Bush's continuation of farm subsidies and his expansion of Medicare have have taken literally hundreds of billions of dollars out of the pockets of Americans, with much of the money benefitting farmers and retirees who aren't exactly needy themselves.  Couple these colossal wastes of money with Bush's expansion of the completely unnecessary Americorp \\"stipended volunteer\\" program, and you've got an administration so good at sticking guns to people's heads in the name of \\"compassion\\" that they could be named honorary Democrats.<br /><br />It only gets worse from there, too.  Steel tariffs, education reform, the Patriot Act, the War on Drugs, campaign finance reform, the invasion of Iraq, airport security, you name it: Bush's measures have made Americans less safe, less free, and less financially secure in just a few short years.  In fact, it seems the only things the Bush administration has done well are robbing and terrorizing the masses, which of course is all that governments really excel at anyway.  However, the Republicans are supposed to rob and terrorize less than the Democrats, not more.  Big government doesn't work no matter who's running it, and that's not going to change.<br /><br />So, what can be done in response to the massive waste, fraud, and corruption of the Bush years?  Sadly enough, the answer is probably nothing.  Those committed to freedom and limited government certainly have nowhere to turn, as it's painfully obvious that neither party will rest until America has been turned into Sweden, with all the runaway taxation such a transformation implies.  As Bovard himself writes in the book's conclusion, \\"trying to end misgovernment in Washington merely by changing the ruling political party is like an alcoholic trying to solve his problem by switching from Whiskey to rum.\\"  Maybe Americans need to start rethinking their faith in democracy and contemplating a return to our country's republican roots.  Unfortunately, that probably won't happen until it's already too late.  Until then,we're probably all better off watching sports, drinking beer, and pretending the federal government doesn't exist.Until then, we're probably all better off watching sports, drinking beer, and pretending the federal government doesn't exist.	2004-10-22
US	44413569	R2TJNCI7CAZAL6	0316919810	392375238	Oblivion: Stories	Books	3	91	98	N	Y	Wallace writes; you decide	It's pretty tough for a writer to balkanize popular opinion the way David Foster Wallace has.  It seems that for everyone who views Wallace as a literary genius, there's someone else who thinks he's a self-indulgent bore who appeals only to the pretentious.  In truth, Wallace is neither; he's just a writer who takes chances with his work and is apparently willing to accept the occasional failure along with his successes.  More a journey than a destination, Wallace's fiction relies heavily on such devices as unconventional narrative structures, punishingly dense and convoluted prose, dazzling verbal trickery, and clinical attention to detail.  All that aside, though, Wallace isn't just a showoff, as there's an unmistakable human element to his fiction.  Buried among the endless detail of these stories are some moments of profound insight and sympathy for the characters he's created to go with Wallace's innovative style and encyclopedic knowledge of just about everything.<br /><br />A prime example of all things Wallace is this collection's opening story, \\"Mr. Squishy,\\" which is about 65 pages long but reads like at least 100.  In one respect, this story is an insider's view of the ad industry, complete with descriptions of various market research strategies and examinations of the minutest details of a focus group assembled to test out a new snack cake.  On another level, though, the story examines the professional and personal frustrations of its protagonist, a focus-group coordinator who could be a symbol for any number of inconsequential white-collar workers the world over.  And of course, there's some trademark Wallace weirdness in the form of  a costumed wall-climber with some bad intentions and a highly ambiguous ending that resolves exactly nothing.  In other words, it's kind of like a miniature version of \\"Infinite Jest.\\"<br /><br />The next story, \\"The Soul is Not a Smithy,\\" continues in this vein, starting with an elementary school student's daydreams while a substitute teacher descends into madness in front of his class before connecting them to the disappointments of his father's middle-class existence.  The brilliant \\"Another Pioneer\\" is an examination of the nature of knowledge and belief revolving around the story of a long-ago young genius whose intellectual development eventually became too much for his fellow villagers to handle.  The title story takes the arguments between a middle-aged guy and his wife over her accusations of his snoring and turns it into a penetrating look at the complexities that result from the confluence of marriage, parenthood, and aging.<br /><br />Wallace apparently decided to save the best for last, though, as the 90-page closer \\"The Suffering Channel\\" easily ranks among his most fascinating work.  At turns poignant, hilarious, bizarre, and profound, the story takes a look at office politics, small-town dreams, and the modern literary world, all centered around a handyman who can create sculptures in a literally incredible manner.  It's everything Wallace can be when he's on, and why readers should be willing to tolerate his occasional overreaching.  Those who don't like what Wallace does can say what they will, but his successes are more brilliant than most precisely because he aims so high that he doesn't always reach his mark.  You can't have Wallace's brilliance without his shortcomings.  To be perfectly, honest, you have to just read the man's work and come to your own conclusions.while a substitute teacher descends into madness in front of his class before connecting them to the disappointments of his father's middle-class existence.  The brilliant \\"Another Pioneer\\" is an examination of the nature of knowledge and belief revolving around the story of a long-ago young genius whose intellectual development eventually became too much for his fellow villagers to handle.  The title story takes the arguments between a middle-aged guy and his wife over her accusations of his snoring and turns it into a penetrating look at the complexities that result from the confluence of marriage, parenthood, and aging.   <br /> <br />Wallace apparently decided to save the best for last, though, as the 90-page closer \\"The Suffering Channel\\" easily ranks among his most fascinating work.  At turns poignant, hilarious, bizarre, and profound, the story takes a look at office politics, small-town dreams, and the modern literary world, all centered around a handyman who can create sculptures in a literally incredible manner.  It's everything Wallace can be when he's on, and why readers should be willing to tolerate his occasional overreaching.  Those who don't like what Wallace does can say what they will, but his successes are more brilliant than most precisely because he aims so high that he doesn't always reach his mark.  You can't have Wallace's brilliance without his shortcomings.  To be perfectly, honest, you have to just read the man's work and come to your own conclusions.	2004-10-16
US	44413569	RYN899S2B5JNT	1891620398	118875723	Taboo : Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports and Why We're Afraid to Talk About It	Books	4	23	33	N	Y	Brave and important writing	Although it's not often discussed, among those who pay attention the wildly disproportionate success of black people in major sports is a reality so obvious it's just taken for granted these days.  I've been watching the NFL religiously since I was about 11, and in that time I haven't seen a single successful white running back, and even the number of black quarterbacks is increasing as the game gets faster.  Here in Massachusetts, nobody even wonders what country the Boston Marathon winner will come from, just which Kenyan will finish first.  And of course, whites in the NBA are virtually nonexistent, except as backup centers.  As its subtitle suggests, \\"Taboo\\" poses two central questions.  First, why are black athletes so overrepresented in the above sports, and several others for that matter?  Is it biology or culture?  And why can't we have a reasoned discussion of the facts without accusations of \\"racism\\" being tossed around?<br /><br />Fortunately, Jon Entine is committed to providing a comprehensive treatment of race differences and sports, and this book covers its subject with an approach that combines anthropology, sports history, and a bit of sociology to boot.  Entine represents the full spectrum of opinion on this issue, giving racial demagogues on both sides enough rope to hang themselves before getting down to the facts.  It's not until late in the book, in the chapter \\"Winning the Genetic Lottery,\\" that Entine really gets into the genetic differences that give blacks an advantage over their peers in certain sports.  As he notes, anyone has to put in a lot of work to become a star athlete, but \\"all the hard work in the world will go for naught if the roulette wheel of genetics doesn't land on your number.\\"  And Entine sites all sorts of evidence that that roulette wheel has landed in Africa more than in other places: sleeker musculatures; faster patellar tendon reflexes; higher levels of plasma testosterone; higher percentages of fast-twitch fibers; and in the case of East Africans, most notably Kenyans, much higher levels of running economy.<br /><br />The book's case for why black athletes dominate sports, or at least many of the more popular ones, is certainly compelling.  Of course, the book's second proposition, why we're afraid to talk about said dominance, is a bit trickier.  In an effort to get to the bottom of the issue, Entine provides an exhaustive discussion of American sport's racial history and the obstacles that blacks have had to overcome over the past century or so.  Around the turn of the century, as Entine shows, black access to sports, and everything else for that matter, was restricted by the common belief among whites that blacks were inferior morally (ummm, probably not), mentally (the jury's still out on that one), and physically (whoops!).  Detailing the struggles of legendary black athletes from Jack Johson to Jesse Owens to Joe Louis, Entine writes that while the ultimate success of blacks in sports did manage to shatter the myth of white physical superiority, blacks wound up saddled with a new stereotype: their athletic success was merely a sign that blacks were a more primitive type of human than everyone else, with more brawn and less brains.<br /><br />Of course, as Entine puts it, intelligence is \\"the elephant in the living room\\" when it comes to talking about race in sports, as black athletic success has led to the stereotype that IQ and athletic ability must be inversely proportional.  As the book ultimately concludes, that's why there's so much reluctance to talk about this subject.  After the horrors of World War II and the Holocaust, there was suddenly a rush to emphasize the shared humanity of all peoples, and this universalist ethic has ruled mainstream science to this day.  Since studies of race differences have been used by people like Hitler to justify so much hateful nonsense, the current orthodoxy goes, it's better to just ignore the evidence of differing capacities even when it's staring us right in the face.  Of course, just because racists have often distorted race science for their own nefarious ends doesn't mean it's all invalid.  After all, failure to acknowledge reality is itself a prejudice whether it's well-intentioned or not, and nobody benefits when the elites try to prevent an objective analysis of the facts.<br /><br />Although it can get a bit too politically correct at times, \\"Taboo\\" is still largely a candid and thorough analysis of a divisive and compelling topic.  Entine's writing sytle is extremely straightforward for such complex subject matter, making the often tricky science of genetics, evolution, and society accessible to just about anyone who's interested.  For sports fans it ranks right up there with Michael Lewis's brilliant \\"Moneyball\\" in the pantheon of thinking man's sports books.  And for those who are just interested in controversial subjects, this book is still worth reading.acities even when it's staring us right in the face.  Of course, just because racists have often distorted race science for their own nefarious ends doesn't mean it's all invalid.  After all, failure to acknowledge reality is itself a prejudice whether it's well-intentioned or not, and nobody benefits when the elites try to prevent an objective analysis of the facts. <br /> <br />Although it can get a bit too politically correct at times, \\"Taboo\\" is still largely a candid and thorough analysis of a divisive and compelling topic.  Entine's writing sytle is extremely straightforward for such complex subject matter, making the often tricky science of genetics, evolution, and society accessible to just about anyone who's interested.  For sports fans it ranks right up there with Michael Lewis's brilliant \\"Moneyball\\" in the pantheon of thinking man's sports books.  And for those who are just interested in controversial subjects, this book is still worth reading.	2004-08-07
US	44413569	R3HGFGGRSOE1C	0595151094	546633796	The Great Possum-Squashing and Beer Storm of 1962: Reflections on the Remains of My Country	Books	5	25	30	N	Y	Fred for President!	Perhaps no writer going these days demolishes the liberal scourge as well as Fred Reed.  In this collection of essays from his website, Fred On Everything, this longtime reporter sheds light on the issues confronting America with his own brand of political incorrectness, or &quot;truth&quot; as it used to be called.  Although this book does contain some entertaining personal anecdotes, Fred's at his best when he's taking on the conventional &quot;wisdom&quot; propagated by modern America's elites.  In witty, down-home prose that's typically as hilarious as it is insightful, Fred dispenses a constant stream of facts and common sense, which is of course the perfect antidote to the drivel spouted by the parasites that inhabit the fringes of our society.  Although I'm far younger than Fred and I don't know any America other than the one we live in right now, he does write very convincingly of a culture in decline and the actors who are bringing it down.  &quot;The Cultural Vandals Come to Roost,&quot; along with Thomas Sowell's classic &quot;Barbarians Inside the Gates,&quot; is probably the perfect description of the state America finds itself in these days.  Fred hands out plenty of other indictments, as well.  He's certainly got some easy targets, ranging from feminists to race hucksters to grief therapists to welfare queens.  Fred takes them all on, with the kind of colorful and straightforward writing you won't find in your local newspaper.  Want to hear the truth about what we call democracy in this country, and why it doesn't work?  Pick up this book.  Voting, and why you shouldn't do it?  It's right here.  Why our schools and universities are such a mess?  Fred knows, and he writes about it so clearly that you'll know too.  Have you ever suspected that multiculturalism might be a bad idea?  So has Fred, and his writing on the subject is the most intelligent and unbiased I've ever read.  Basically, unless you insist upon being completely ignorant and deluded for your entire life (a state often glimpsed among those who vote for Democrats), then you owe to yourself to buy this book, and check out Fred's website the first chance you get.  I've read some of these essays five times (or more), and they don't get old.  I'm morally opposed to voting, but Fred Reed is one guy I wouldn't mind seeing in office.your entire life (a state often glimpsed among those who vote for Democrats), then you owe to yourself to buy this book, and check out Fred's website the first chance you get.  I've read some of these essays five times (or more), and they don't get old.  I'm morally opposed to voting, but Fred Reed is one guy I wouldn't mind seeing in office.	2004-07-18
US	44413569	RV0IJZPZX9DK6	081799582X	189816345	Barbarians inside the Gates and Other Controversial Essays (Hoover Institution Press Publication)	Books	5	56	59	N	Y	Thomas Sowell=5 stars.  No, make it 10	While I've read plenty of work by plenty of writers influencing my beliefs on one issue or another, Thomas Sowell's writing has had a much more profound influence on my thinking: it's changed the very way that I view the world around me.  As America becomes more divided and less free, Thomas Sowell is one of the only places I can reliably turn for an interesting dissident voice.  In this collection of remarkably succint and insightful essays, Sowell pokes at the foundations of the prevailing ideologies of the day until the whole house of cards comes tumbling down.  Although he's typically assigned the simplistic label &quot;conservative,&quot; Sowell's analyses go well beyond the tired, often irrelevant divide between the &quot;left&quot; and the &quot;right.&quot;  Sowell isn't trying to get elected or win any popularity contests, and he doesn't have an ideological axe to grind; he's just a guy with a great deal of respect for logic, truth, and the founding ideals of this country.  Indeed, Sowell dispenses with the drivel spouted by politicians of both parties as he cuts through what he calls the &quot;mush&quot; that typically passes for informed debate these days.  Sowell has written much about the self-satisfied &quot;anointed&quot; who hold so much power and shape so much of the debate in this country, and he launches a frontal assault in these essays against every bastion of their power.  No one is spared from Sowell's disdain for our self-appointed betters: politicians, welfare statists, race hucksters, feminists, the media, the judiciary, and most of all the educational establishment that has sold generations of kids down the river in the name of feel-good &quot;progressive&quot; ideas.  Although he typically writes with the utmost restraint, Sowell can be outrageous and sometimes even hilarious, as in this little nugget: &quot;Liberals love to say things like, 'We're just asking everyone to pay their fair share'.  But government is not about asking.  It is about telling.  The difference is fundamental.  It is the difference between making love and being raped, between working for a living and being a slave.&quot;  There are plenty more such penetrating insights to be found here, along with an avalanche of facts, to go along with Sowell's justified contempt at America's modern-day elites.  If you read Thomas Sowell and you're not quickly converted to his way of thinking, well then, as someone once said, &quot;You can't handle the truth!&quot;about telling.  The difference is fundamental.  It is the difference between making love and being raped, between working for a living and being a slave.&quot;  There are plenty more such penetrating insights to be found here, along with an avalanche of facts, to go along with Sowell's justified contempt at America's modern-day elites.  If you read Thomas Sowell and you're not quickly converted to his way of thinking, well then, as someone once said, &quot;You can't handle the truth!&quot;	2004-07-05
US	44413569	R2YH90JSA8EIIA	0312284659	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say In America	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Freedom 101	Since I live in Massachusetts, it took me awhile to hear about Larry Elder, so this book was actually my introduction to his beliefs.  But man, what an introduction.  \\"The Ten Things You Can't Say in America\\" is a systematic, all-out assault on the Marxist super-state that America is quickly becoming.  Like Rush Limbaugh before him, Elder does have a bit of a tendency toward polemic and fuzzy generalization (he is a radio show host, after all), but his incendiary writing style is ideal for entertaining while it enlightens.  With the relentless logic of the trained lawyer that he is, and drawing on sources ranging from Booker T. Washington to Milton Friedman to Chris Rock, Elder pokes holes in a series of leftist dogmas.  Many of the themes laid out in Thomas Sowell's classic \\"The Vision of the Anointed\\" are echoed here, and Elder peppers his assaults on the liberal vision with plenty of personal anecdotes and hard facts that you won't find on the network news.<br />If there's one idea that's repeated throughout this book, it's the superiority of free markets to political measures in dealing with the \\"problems\\" faced in America today.  Racism and sexism?  Blacks and women don't need anti-discrimination laws, they just need to make it unprofitable to discriminate against them.  Health care?  If there's a crisis, it's because government regulation has distorted incentives and interfered with supply and demand.  The Drug War?  Government has created a drug problem out of thin air by creating a black market.  Illegitimacy?  It's our country's biggest problem, and the government has created it through a welfare state that subsidizes irresponsibility with the tax dollars of the responsible.<br />The political left has gotten away with this craziness, according to Elder, because they're firmly in control of the government and the media.  As anyone who pays attention knows by now, the Republican and Democratic parties are virtually indistinguishable, with both sides willingly participating in the steady advance of socialism in America.  Elder sarcastically (and hilariously) sums up the differences between the parties by noting that the Republicans want to take a pocketknife to a problem requiring a machete, while Democrats don't even think there's a problem.  And of course, the media can be counted on to advance the big-government agenda every chance they get.  The media's leftist bias has been noted over and over, but some of Elder's revelations are still surprising as he describes just how much the media tries to twist the national debate on issues ranging from the welfare state to race relations to gun control.<br />If there's any one chapter in this book that resonates most, it would have to the one with the attention-grabbing title \\"Gun Control Advocates-Good Guys With Blood on Their Hands.\\"  It's virtually impossible to get straight talk on this issue from the maintream media (as Elder painstakingly illustrates), but Elder presents an avalanche of facts to prove that government restrictions on gun ownership increase crime at the same time as they decrease freedom.  And as he points out, those in favor of gun control have to get by a little thing known as the Second Amendment.  Elder obviously gives our founding fathers a bit more credit than the political left does.<br />While \\"The Ten Things You Can't Say in America\\" is by no means a scholarly work, it's nonetheless very useful in drawing attention to the liberal fallacies that many people have come to take for granted.  On every subject Elder addresses, he illuminates the underlying truth and strikes a convincing blow for freedom and honesty.  Elder's treatment of the issues confronting America in the 21st century is wide-ranging, approachable, and eminently sensible.  Let the debate begin.ngly participating in the steady advance of socialism in America.  Elder sarcastically (and hilariously) sums up the differences between the parties by noting that the Republicans want to take a pocketknife to a problem requiring a machete, while Democrats don't even think there's a problem.  And of course, the media can be counted on to advance the big-government agenda every chance they get.  The media's leftist bias has been noted over and over, but some of Elder's revelations are still surprising as he describes just how much the media tries to twist the national debate on issues ranging from the welfare state to race relations to gun control.  <br />If there's any one chapter in this book that resonates most, it would have to the one with the attention-grabbing title \\"Gun Control Advocates-Good Guys With Blood on Their Hands.\\"  It's virtually impossible to get straight talk on this issue from the maintream media (as Elder painstakingly illustrates), but Elder presents an avalanche of facts to prove that government restrictions on gun ownership increase crime at the same time as they decrease freedom.  And as he points out, those in favor of gun control have to get by a little thing known as the Second Amendment.  Elder obviously gives our founding fathers a bit more credit than the political left does.<br />While \\"The Ten Things You Can't Say in America\\" is by no means a scholarly work, it's nonetheless very useful in drawing attention to the liberal fallacies that many people have come to take for granted.  On every subject Elder addresses, he illuminates the underlying truth and strikes a convincing blow for freedom and honesty.  Elder's treatment of the issues confronting America in the 21st century is wide-ranging, approachable, and eminently sensible.  Let the debate begin.	2004-07-03
US	44413569	R2WILHBF9EPCFN	0060959258	670475841	Black Mass	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Depressing but fascinating	Written by two veteran Boston reporters, &quot;Black Mass&quot; is a story of crime and corruption that turns into a gripping tale of good intentions gone awry.  Taking place on the mean streets of South Boston, a mere twenty miles or so from where I've lived my whole life, this book tells of a violent intersection of cultures: the tribal culture of Irish America, the often-closed culture of the Federal Bureau of investigation, and the violent culture of organized crime.  And unfortunately, it's all true.  At bottom, &quot;Black Mass&quot; presents a haze of divided allegiances and moral ambiguity, that may well shake your faith in our government-appointed protectors.<br />Looming large over the whole story is the imposing figure of James J. Bulger Jr., or &quot;Whitey Buljah&quot; as he is more commonly known around these parts.  Long before the Bloods and Crips were household names, Bulger emerged from a culture where street gangs were omnipresent and career options for adults were mostly restricted to the Armed services, politics, factory and police work, or crime.  Unfortunately, Whitey Bulger never quite outgrew the gang culture of his youth, and he proved exceedingly skilled at the crime profession.  As intelligent as he was soulless, Bulger graduated from street enforcer to bank robber (with a stint in Alactraz along the way) to organized crime kingpin with his hand in all things illegal as the head of the vicious Winter Hill Gang.  Along for the ride was the aptly nicknamed Stevie &quot;The Rifleman&quot; Flemmi, a barbaric killer whose Mafia connections made him a perfect stoolie in the Boston FBI's war against the Mafia.<br />It was in 1975 against the backdrop of the FBI's battle with La Cosa Nostra that FBI agent John Connolly, who emerged from the same projects as Bulger, crafted a plan to bring Whitey and Flemmi into the Bureau's fold as informants.  It sounded like a sweet deal for all those concerned: Bulger and Flemmi got to take out the Winter Hill Gang's competition, and the FBI got a well-placed ally in its effort to bring down Boston's ruling Angiulo family.  Unfortunately, it didn't quite work out that way.  The FBI did manage to bring down the Angiulos, due largely to its now-legendary wiretapping operation at Gennaro Angiulo's headquarters, but Bulger and Flemmi remained connected to the FBI long after they had outlived their usefulness.  In fact, as this book makes clear, the two gangsters greatly enlarged their stature in Boston's underworld during the 1980's, and they did it with the full knowledge and even collaboration of the FBI.<br />As O'Neill and Lehr explain, the shared South Boston origins of Bulger and Connolly, which seemed like such an asset back in 1975 when Connolly was recruiting Whitey, ultimately became a liability.  Coming from a tight-knit, tribal culture like Southie, Connolly couldn't exactly be counted on to maintain his objectivity in dealing with Bulger, whom he even came to refer to as a &quot;good bad guy.&quot;  An even deeper problem, though, was John Connolly himself: a smooth-talking lady's man who liked the high life a bit too much, Connolly eventually became virtually indistinguishable from his prized informants.  Hanging out with Bulger and Flemmi and accepting their gifts, Connolly didn't just look the other way while Bulger, Flemmi &amp; Co. enlarged their empire and the bodies piled up; he was an active assistant in their operation.  Although they were frequently pursued by the Massachusetts State Police, local detectives, and even the DEA, the two gangsters were virtually untouchable.<br />Perhaps even worse, O'Neill and Lehr make it clear that the FBI's mishandling of its two prized informants went beyond John Connolly's corruption to encompass a massive institutional failure.  With Connolly corrupted and a series of supervisors compromised, the Bureau's guidelines for oversight of informants became essentially null and void.  Falsified reports that exaggerated Bulger and Flemmi's usefulness while understating their criminal activities became the norm, and even those in other law enforcement agencies who suspected something amiss had their efforts blocked.  One painful lesson to be drawn from this book is that the law is only as strong as those who enforce it.  When those charged with stopping crime drift to the other side, where do we turn then?Bulger and Flemmi's usefulness while understating their criminal activities became the norm, and even those in other law enforcement agencies who suspected something amiss had their efforts blocked.  One painful lesson to be drawn from this book is that the law is only as strong as those who enforce it.  When those charged with stopping crime drift to the other side, where do we turn then?	2004-06-19
US	44413569	R8I1MDI7QJO79	0300101996	11119780	Affirmative Action Around the World: An Empirical Study	Books	5	100	107	N	N	Thomas Sowell&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;God	As anyone who regularly reads Thomas Sowell's syndicated columns knows, he's long been one of America's most prominent dissident voices, black or white, approaching every subject he addresses with relentless reason and thorough research.  With his latest book, &quot;Affirmative Action Around the World,&quot; Sowell jumps right into the debate over one of the world's most controversial subjects: ethnic preference programs.  Of course, we all know about Affirmative Action here in the U.S., but as Sowell demonstrates, similar programs can be found in countries all over the world.  With his trademark honesty and meticulousness, Sowell explores the results of affirmative action policies in five countries: the United States, India, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Sri Lanka.  This book echoes many of the themes found in Sowell's classic &quot;The Vision of the Anointed,&quot; so you may want to check out that book before moving on to this one.<br />As Sowell states many times throughout the book, his main objective here is to examine the actual effects of affirmative action programs, not the goals or rationales behind them.  To put it another way, he sets out to answer the questions that most people don't even ask.  The chief problem, in Sowell's view, is that the assumption underlying affirmative action programs is fundamentally flawed.  It's just assumed by those advocating such measures that any intergroup disparities in performance must be caused by some sort of systematic discrimination, and a little government intervention is needed to even things out.  However, as Sowell notes, such differences have been found all over the world all through history.  In virtually any country, a statistically significant group of Chinese, Japanese, or Jewish people will out-earn the majority population, even though they typically have little to no political power.  It's been the same with other groups in other countries, regardless of whether they were in any position to discriminate against anybody.  It's gotten so ridiculous that in Canada, citizens of Japanese descent have been referred to as a &quot;privileged&quot; group, even though they're a tiny percentage of the population and have suffered horrendous treatment there.<br />Another major flaw Sowell points out is that proponents of group-preference policies see the whole matter as a zero-sum game, where some of the benefits that one group has &quot;unfairly&quot; gained can simply be taken and given to another group.  However, these people, whose mindset you can read all about in &quot;The Vision of the Anointed,&quot; fail to account for all the unintended consequences that such policies can produce.  Race relations can become frayed as coercion replaces cooperation (as they have in America), members of newly disadvantaged groups can leave the country and take their money and skills with them (Malaysia), and ethnic violence and even civil war can break out (India and Sri Lanka).  Even worse, if governments were to stay out of the way, everyone could benefit, as in the 1940's and '50's in this country when white income rose and black income rose even faster with no affirmative action.  Instead, government meddling often turns what could be a positive-sum game into a negative-sum one.<br />Perhaps most disastrously of all, once set in motion group-preference policies tend to take on a life of their own.  In all five of the countries Sowell discusses, affirmative action programs are supposed to be in effect for a limited time and cover a limited group of people, but they eventually take on a life of their own as the demands of the privileged groups become ever more radical.  In many countries these policies have come to cover more and more groups, often being expanded to more than half the population and always being extended past any timetable set for their expiration.  And in all cases, the more privileged members of the preferred groups have reaped almost all of the benefits.  This is another theme Sowell covers in &quot;The Vision of the Anointed&quot;: the people who set these policies in motion may mean well, but in believing they can control the course of the events they've set in motion they assume more knowledge than anyone has ever had anywhere.<br />I think the main lesson to be taken from this book is that multi-ethnic societies *can* work, but not with a powerful central government distributing benefits in what essentially amounts to a racial spoils system.  In the kind of free-market society advocated by libertarians, where people are free to associate with whomever they see fit, racial tensions could be defused or at least minimized even if there are large disparities in achievement between different groups.  As Sowell notes, there have always been achievement gaps in various countries the world over, but these gaps typically don't lead to major tensions or violence until they're politicized by demagogues who stand to gain from encouraging strife (think Jesse Jackson).  It's just too bad more people, regardless of race, don't listen to voices of reason like Sowell.other theme Sowell covers in &quot;The Vision of the Anointed&quot;: the people who set these policies in motion may mean well, but in believing they can control the course of the events they've set in motion they assume more knowledge than anyone has ever had anywhere.  <br />I think the main lesson to be taken from this book is that multi-ethnic societies *can* work, but not with a powerful central government distributing benefits in what essentially amounts to a racial spoils system.  In the kind of free-market society advocated by libertarians, where people are free to associate with whomever they see fit, racial tensions could be defused or at least minimized even if there are large disparities in achievement between different groups.  As Sowell notes, there have always been achievement gaps in various countries the world over, but these gaps typically don't lead to major tensions or violence until they're politicized by demagogues who stand to gain from encouraging strife (think Jesse Jackson).  It's just too bad more people, regardless of race, don't listen to voices of reason like Sowell.	2004-05-29
US	44413569	R2AZWCE84Z6S3H	0761526463	268587681	The Real Lincoln: A New Look at Abraham Lincoln, His Agenda, and an Unnecessary War	Books	4	77	95	N	N	Ouch...looks like Abe wasn't so honest after all	In my 25 years I've read exactly one book in a single day, and that book was &quot;The Real Lincoln.&quot;  In a clear and concise writing style, Tom DiLorenzo has rendered a devastating revisionist critique of this country's &quot;greatest&quot; president.  Those who have been subjected to endless Lincoln worship from grade school on will surely be surprised by this in-depth look at ol' Honest Abe and the agenda he hid behind all his lofty rhetoric.  As DiLorenzo stresses numerous times, Lincoln was a great politician and lawyer, but left much to be desired as a statesman.<br />In the book's early chapters, DiLorenzo sets about debunking the image of Lincoln as the &quot;Great Emancipator.&quot;  In reality, as proved by numerous quotes, Lincoln was a committed white supremacist who supported Illinois's ultra-harsh Black Codes designed to protect the state's white work force from black competition.  He repeatedly stated that he had no intentions of disturbing the institution of slavery where it existed, and actually favored either the continued oppression or deportation of the country's black population.  The Emancipation Proclamation, far from being some sort of principled stand against slavery, was a military measure stemming from the North's desperate military situation at the time.  As Lincoln's secretary of state, William Seward, noted sardonically, &quot;We show our sympathy with slavery by emancipating slaves where we cannot reach them and holding them in bondage where we can set the free.&quot;<br />Although DiLorenzo succeeds in thoroughly destroying the &quot;Great Emancipator&quot; myth, he does substitute a new and more accurate label for Lincoln: The Great Centralizer.  DiLorenzo presents the reader with a Lincoln whose real agenda was the devastation of states' rights and constitutional government in order to pave the way for the Whig/Republican agenda he had favored his entire political life: high protective tariffs to benefit Northern business, government subsidies for internal improvements, and a nationalized banking system.  As DiLorenzo convincingly demonstrates, Lincoln's real aim was to eliminate the right of the states to secede, which had been taken for granted up to that point in American history.  With the defeat of the South, the last check on Washington's authority was removed, and the path was cleared for increasingly greater intrusions of federal power.<br />And as if that's not bad enough, DiLorenzo discusses some of the shadier aspects of the conduct of the war itself.  Lincoln, he writes, has done more to turn the U.S. Constitution into a dead document than anyone else.  Arbitrary arrest, the suspension of habeas corpus, massive restrictions on freedom of speech and assembly, and even the deportation of the Peace Democrat Clement Vallandigham were all part of the Lincoln's systematic campaign to silence any dissent the war generated in the North.  In imposing such restrictions on basic freedoms, Lincoln helped to establish a precedent for every totalitarian regime that followed.  Perhaps even worse, the Civil War helped inaugurate the concept of total war, evidenced by the by the shameful treatment of Southern civilians by Northern soldiers (many of whom were foreign criminals sent here when the prisons in their native countries were emptied).  Sherman's and Sheridan's armies left a trail of destruction and destitution in their wakes, and since Lincoln was known to micromanage the war effort, DiLorenzo claims it's all but impossible that these activities occurred without his consent.<br />Now, in all fairness, it should be pointed out that DiLorenzo is a free-market economist, not a historian, and this book is more a polemic than a true biography.  At the same time, though, DiLorenzo's background in economics enables him to launch into a discussion of just what Lincoln's centralization scheme has given us: high taxes, protectionist tariffs that benefit preferred businesses at the expense of consumers, an activist Supreme Court, and staggering levels of government waste.  This book is more proof that a little historical revision can be a good thing every now and then.  With &quot;The Real Lincoln,&quot; DiLorenzo hasn't just laid waste to an icon, he's made a convincing case for liberty (and not the fake kind George Bush talks about endlessly either).of consumers, an activist Supreme Court, and staggering levels of government waste.  This book is more proof that a little historical revision can be a good thing every now and then.  With &quot;The Real Lincoln,&quot; DiLorenzo hasn't just laid waste to an icon, he's made a convincing case for liberty (and not the fake kind George Bush talks about endlessly either).	2004-05-29
US	44413569	RWNENX0MDOD56	0465089941	469991966	The Vision Of The Anointed: Self-congratulation As A Basis For Social Policy	Books	5	29	36	N	N	It's all about Sowell	They say the road to Hell is paved with good intentions, and if half of what Thomas Sowell says in &quot;The Vision of the Anointed&quot; is true, then the political left is leading us there at a record pace.  With his lively mind and devastating pen (or I guess it would be a keyboard, heh), Sowell disdainfully lays waste to every politically correct sacred cow he can get his hands on in 260 pages.  In every chapter, Sowell demolishes some bit of liberal &quot;wisdom&quot; with his meticulous research and relentless logic.  Sowell is a staunch conservative, bordering on libertarian (I am a libertarian, so take that to mean what you will), and after reading this book's all-out assault on liberals it's easy to see why.<br />Now, plenty of commentators have taken on lefties before, but Sowell may have been the first to connect all the dots and present all of their disastrous ideas as the logical outgrowth of a single vision, what he calls (duh) the Vision of the Anointed.  Who exactly are the Anointed and what is their vision, you might ask?  Well, there are lots of them, and they tend to be concentrated in powerful and influential institutions like academia, the media, the courts, and of course, elected office.  Their vision is of a world where nothing is impossible, and all &quot;problems&quot; can be &quot;solved&quot; by those with the superior wisdom and virtue necessary to do so, if only they're given unlimited power to carry out their programs.  Naturally, the government is the best instrument for bringing their vision to bear, with little to no regard for the actual desires of actual people as expressed through the workings of free markets.<br />As Sowell makes clear, often stopping to name names, these people have constructed their own worldview, which has precious little to do with the world in which we live.  You've probably heard a lot of the buzzwords they use: &quot;rights,&quot; &quot;public service,&quot; &quot;social justice,&quot; &quot;progress,&quot; and on and on they go.<br />These terms are all very clever when it comes to cutting off reasoned debate; after all, who can be against rights, social justice, or progress?  Unfortunately, we live in an imperfect world populated by imperfect people, and any benefits conferred by the Anointed on one group must inevitably come at the expense of another, possibly quite larger, group.  While the Anointed like to talk of solutions, in Sowell's Tragic Vision there are only trade-offs.  The actions of the Anointed may produce some largely illusory advantages for their mascots, such as bums, criminals, and minorities, but huge numbers of other people typically get the shaft as a result.<br />The book's powerhouse second chapter is an especially powerful example of the practical results the Vision of the Anointed has for the rest of us.  Sowell examines the colossal failures of 1960's-era liberalism (although socialism might be a more accurate term), and discusses how exactly the Anointed were able to bring them about.  He identifies a common theme to the Anointed's plans: first, they identify a &quot;crisis&quot; that can't be proven to exist, then they prescribe a &quot;solution&quot; that can only be produced through categorical government action, and when their solution only makes things worse they dismiss all evidence much like a man putting his hands over his ears yelling &quot;I'm not listening!&quot;  Sowell specifically discusses how the Vision of the Anointed was expressed during the 60's in the areas of poverty, crime, and teen pregnancy.  In each area, as Sowell demonstrates quite conclusively, there was no serious problem until massive government intervention created one.  And as a quick look at statistics on social pathologies like crime and illegitimacy will tell you, we're still dealing with the results today, especially among the poor and minority people these policies were supposed to help.<br />And so it goes, with Sowell's brutal honesty exposing leftist chicanery at every turn.  I think the most important point readers should get from this book is just how disconnected from reality the Vision of the Anointed has become.  If we don't start taking a more rational approach to our problems soon things could really get ugly, as the leftward drift of the past few decades must inevitably produce an opposite reaction.  Ideas like Sowell's provide some important clues for finding a way out of the current mess while there's still time.ftist chicanery at every turn.  I think the most important point readers should get from this book is just how disconnected from reality the Vision of the Anointed has become.  If we don't start taking a more rational approach to our problems soon things could really get ugly, as the leftward drift of the past few decades must inevitably produce an opposite reaction.  Ideas like Sowell's provide some important clues for finding a way out of the current mess while there's still time.	2004-05-08
US	44413569	R1KHGFQAAY2KV7	0609804618	852111366	Our Dumb Century: The Onion Presents 100 Years of Headlines from America's Finest News Source	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A tour de force of history	\\"Our Dumb Century\\" is, simply put, the most entertaining book I've ever had the pleasure of reading. On every page, covering each year of the 20th century, The Onion's crack team of writers bring their devastating sense of irony to every important and not-so-important event that a history enthusiast could ever want to think of. No prominent figure, from Hitler to Stalin to Nixon, is spared as the Onion launches a full frontal assault on lies, hypocrisy, stereotypes, and various misdeeds with the irreverent wit that has made its website an internet mainstay for close to a decade and running. You might think one would have a hard time laughing aloud at news of wars, genocides, and other high crimes, but you just need to take a look at the below headlines to understand what I'm talking about:<br />\\"The Machine: Will It Replace the China-Man?\\"<br />\\"Stalin Announces Five-Year 'Everybody Dies' Plan.\\"<br />\\"Dastardly Japs Attack Colonially Occupied U.S. Non-State.\\"<br />\\"Stock Market Crashes; Debacle Linked to Jews, Negroes, Catholics, Anarachists, Foreigners, Women Voters.\\"<br />\\"'The Man' hurt by Black Panther Accusations.\\"<br />\\"Kennedy Slain by CIA, Mafia, Castro, LBJ, Teamsters, Freemasons.\\"<br />\\"Mr. T Releases 'Pity List '86.'\\"<br />And there's lots, lots more where that came from. Despite a few scattered moments of tastelessness, \\"Our Dumb Century\\" is chiefly one hilarious story after another, relentessly lampooning the foibles of human nature and the train wreck that American culture has become of late. I've reread some of these stories as many as ten times, and they never cease to be funny.  Sometimes (most of the time, actually), life becomes so absurd that the best way to deal with it is just to laugh, and The Onion has always been extremely useful for just that purpose. \\"Our Dumb Century\\" manages to cast the light of irony on some truly dark times, which is an achievement that should not be discounted.	2004-04-14
US	44413569	R1B9CNL6TXYJKV	0930073029	156045134	For a New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Food for thought	I've long had somewhat of a libertarian streak in my thinking (one of the few A's I managed to get in high school was for a 15-page paper defending Dr. Kevorkian), but before reading this book I could scarcely have imagined that there existed such a systematic and comprehensive treatise in support of liberty.  In &quot;For A New Liberty,&quot; the late Murray Rothbard makes a powerful case for abolishing the state and allowing individualism to reign.  Rothbard's ideology exists completely outside the tired rhetoric of this country's &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right,&quot; instead laying out a new course in line with the classical liberalism that came to prominence around the eighteenth century.  If you never vote in elections because you think the major-party candidates are all basically the same, this book may well provide the alternative you've been looking for.<br />Dispensing with such ideologies as democracy, fascism, and communism, Rothbard reaches back to the tradition of the early American Republic to find support for his views.  The American Revolution, he writes, &quot;resulted in governments unprecedented in restrictions placed on their power,&quot; and the forces of big government triumphed only when the libertarian Democratic party was split over slavery.  Rothbard is not at all ambiguous about what the post-Civil War statist order has brought:  war, militarism, protectionism, and government-sponsored corporate monopoly, none of which benefit the great mass of people.  While it may seem odd to see the son of Jewish immigrants championing the unfashionable ideals of our Founding Fathers, Rothbard makes a powerful case for a return to our country's roots.<br />In place of a tax-financed government parcelling out benefits to its subjects, Rothbard advocates a free and voluntary society based on individual property rights.  The right of property, whether in one's person or in material objects, is the right from which all other rights proceed: freedom of speech, of religion, of assemly, of the press, and any other right you can think of.  If the state can abridge property rights, by extension it can abridge any other right.  Rejecting the idea that a government can be a guarantor of liberty and security, Rothbard substitutes an axiom of nonaggression, claiming that property rights are of necessity inviolable and violence, theft, and coercion of any kind are inherently criminal.  Rather than utilitarian concerns, Rothbard's belief in  nonaggression is grounded in his perception of morality, making it perhaps the only consistent, workable moral absolute that mankind has yet developed.  However, Rothbard hastens to point out that his doctrines would advance the material as well as the moral well-being of society, and comes up with plenty of evidence to back up his claim.<br />In his early section on the State, Rothbard provides the reader with the ultimate devastation of the view of government as a force for good.  His chief target is the double standard by which governments routinely get away with doing things that would be roundly condemned if private individuals or groups were to commit them.  In Rothbard's view, any aggression against the person or property of another is immoral and illegal, and he sees the state as the ultimate aggressor against property rights.  Only the State is allowed to trample on the rights of individuals, which it justifies with euphemisms like &quot;war,&quot; &quot;taxation,&quot; and &quot;consciption.&quot;  For these terms, Rothbard substitutes, respectively, &quot;mass murder,&quot; &quot;robbery,&quot; and &quot;slavery.&quot;  And given the fact that governments the world over (ours included, though communist systems are of course much worse) spent the twentieth century engaging in activities that made the September 11 attacks look like a street mugging, Rothbard's thesis bears contemplating whether you agree or not.<br />So, what exactly are the implications of the libertarian anti-state, free market ethos?  Well, Rothbard thought of several, and much of the book is devoted to an application of his ideals of individual liberty and absolute property rights for a free society.  Education, crime, monetary policy, eduation, pollution, and on into infinity: Rothbard claims these have become problematic issues because of government involvement, and only the libertarian principles of voluntarism and free trade can fix them.  Rothbard argues that the free market has worked so well because it encourages competition, which gives those who provide any service an incentive to consistently please their customers, a motivation that a government monopoly lacks.  No reasonable person would conclude that the provision of food and clothing should be nationalized; so why, Rothbard begs the question, is the State allowed to exert so much control over education, police protection, roads, or anything else for that matter?  Rothbard can't think of a reason, and argues that government should never be allowed to interfere with the genius of the market.<br />Running through Rothbard's thesis is one nagging question: are his ideas workable?  He claims that they have worked (see his discussion of Ireland's libertarian history prior to its conquest by Britain), and they can work again.  Rothbard also hastens to point out that even if they're not perfect, libertarian societies would hardly be capable of the massive levels of violence and oppression that governments carry out on a regular basis.  Rothbard's tour of American foreign policy and its imperialist bent over the past century is especially sobering and enlightening for his discussion of the destructive potential of ANY state, &quot;democratic&quot; or otherwise.  Admittedly, many of the ideas contained in this book could be considered &quot;radical,&quot; but far more pernicious ideas have come to dominate large parts of the world (Communism, anyone?).  Considering some of the truly wacky ideas out there, Rothbard at least deserves to be heard.  So read, and decide for yourself.  Even if you're not converted to libertarianism, I can offer a virtual guarantee that your outlook on the world will be reoriented.state, free market ethos?  Well, Rothbard thought of several, and much of the book is devoted to an application of his ideals of individual liberty and absolute property rights for a free society.  Education, crime, monetary policy, eduation, pollution, and on into infinity: Rothbard claims these have become problematic issues because of government involvement, and only the libertarian principles of voluntarism and free trade can fix them.  Rothbard argues that the free market has worked so well because it encourages competition, which gives those who provide any service an incentive to consistently please their customers, a motivation that a government monopoly lacks.  No reasonable person would conclude that the provision of food and clothing should be nationalized; so why, Rothbard begs the question, is the State allowed to exert so much control over education, police protection, roads, or anything else for that matter?  Rothbard can't think of a reason, and argues that government should never be allowed to interfere with the genius of the market.  <br />Running through Rothbard's thesis is one nagging question: are his ideas workable?  He claims that they have worked (see his discussion of Ireland's libertarian history prior to its conquest by Britain), and they can work again.  Rothbard also hastens to point out that even if they're not perfect, libertarian societies would hardly be capable of the massive levels of violence and oppression that governments carry out on a regular basis.  Rothbard's tour of American foreign policy and its imperialist bent over the past century is especially sobering and enlightening for his discussion of the destructive potential of ANY state, &quot;democratic&quot; or otherwise.  Admittedly, many of the ideas contained in this book could be considered &quot;radical,&quot; but far more pernicious ideas have come to dominate large parts of the world (Communism, anyone?).  Considering some of the truly wacky ideas out there, Rothbard at least deserves to be heard.  So read, and decide for yourself.  Even if you're not converted to libertarianism, I can offer a virtual guarantee that your outlook on the world will be reoriented.	2004-01-03
US	44413569	R24E3HRS0UDRY	076152553X	349784694	The Tyranny of Good Intentions: How Prosecutors and Bureaucrats Are Trampling the Constitution in the Name of Justice	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Not a masterpiece, but a necessary read	Though it's by no means an epic political treatise, &quot;The Tyranny Of Good Intentions&quot; is still a real eye-opener for those who think the government is always looking out for its citizens' best interests.  Written in a straightforward style befitting its status as an entry-level text, &quot;The Tyranny Of Good Intentions&quot; catalogues a seemingly endless succession of governmental violations of the rights it's supposed to be protecting.  Roberts is an occasional contributor to the hardcore libertarian website lewrockwell.com, and he and Stratton write with the same obvious devotion to preserving freedom that Roberts brings to that site.  Their thesis is  rather simple, but extremely important: Roberts and Stratton believe that the Rights of Englishmen, which have long been assumed to provide Americans a guarantee against governmental oppression, are being steadily eroded by an increasing emphasis on Benthamite utilitarianism.  This shift in priorities, they say, puts us all in danger as increasingly totalitarian measures are enacted to advance such utopian crusades as the war on drugs and radical environmentalism.  The authors bring a libertarian emphasis on property rights to their writing, and they dilligently catalogue how these rights are violated by an overzealous and often unscrupulous bureaucracy.  In an especially ominous development, they say, government bureacrats have actually assumed the power of making laws themselves, bypassing the restraints of our legislative process entirely.<br />As the law has ceased to be a means for protecting people from the government, the results have become disastrous for law-abiding Americans.  The war on corporate crime has produced massive violations of attorney-client privilege, environmentalism has destroyed businesses that had nothing to do with pollution, and the war on drugs has led to outright confiscation of innocent people's property on a grand scale.  Everywhere, traditional protections like the presumption of innocence and the prohibitions on retroactive laws and crimes without intent have fallen by the wayside.  And accountability is absent, as there's nowhere to appeal for protection from the government.<br />Although &quot;The Tyranny Of Good Intentions&quot; can get rather depressing, it's still obligatory for all those interested in freedom and how governments tend to restrict rather than expand it.  If you really want a scholarly and important work of libertarian theory, you should check out Murray Rothbard's &quot;For A New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto&quot; (which I'm still working my way through at the moment).  That said, this book is a useful companion piece demonstrating how all Americans are endangered when Rothbard's principles are ignored by power-hungry governments.  Even if, as the book's title suggests, the wars on drugs, pollution, and corporate crime are motivated by good intentions, we should all question whether these intentions should be entrusted to the federal government.umption of innocence and the prohibitions on retroactive laws and crimes without intent have fallen by the wayside.  And accountability is absent, as there's nowhere to appeal for protection from the government.  <br />Although &quot;The Tyranny Of Good Intentions&quot; can get rather depressing, it's still obligatory for all those interested in freedom and how governments tend to restrict rather than expand it.  If you really want a scholarly and important work of libertarian theory, you should check out Murray Rothbard's &quot;For A New Liberty: The Libertarian Manifesto&quot; (which I'm still working my way through at the moment).  That said, this book is a useful companion piece demonstrating how all Americans are endangered when Rothbard's principles are ignored by power-hungry governments.  Even if, as the book's title suggests, the wars on drugs, pollution, and corporate crime are motivated by good intentions, we should all question whether these intentions should be entrusted to the federal government.	2003-12-21
US	44413569	RTHS25C3JCW16	0393057658	346106080	Moneyball: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Essential for nerds everywhere, sports or otherwise	If, like me, you're one of those hopeless stat geeks who never get tired of &quot;who's better?&quot; discussions, &quot;Moneyball&quot; may well be right up your alley.  Chronicling how the cash-strapped Oakland A's regularly compete with the huge-spending likes of the Red Sox and Yankees, &quot;Moneyball&quot; sets out to demonstrate that how plentiful your resources are isn't as important as how you use them.  In one sense, it's about how A's general manager Billy Beane, himself a washout as a player, manages to build successful teams on a tight budget with a bunch of guys even I haven't heard of.  But in another, deeper sense, the book is about how any enterprise can be improved if it's remade along rational lines.<br />Beane's business plan for the A's rested on a bold premise, namely that much of the traditional &quot;knowledge&quot; accumulated by baseball insiders was, well, b.s..  After all, Beane had tanked in his professional career after being tagged as a can't miss prospect, so how much could scouts know?  Beane's plan, while radical, was also so fiendishly simple it's hard to believe it wasn't more common.  Under Beane, the A's started judging prospects not by how athletic they were, or how good they looked in a uniform, but by how well they had performed in games.  And if that meant hiring a group of Harvard graduates like assistant GM Paul DePodesta to pull names of college players off a computer, so be it.<br />Of course, the A's also faced the problem of money, since their payroll had to be kept at about 40 million dollars, or 15 million less than Alex Rodriguez makes.  The solution?  Treating the team like any other business, Beane and co. used cutting-edge research and technology to break players and stats into parts.  Since they couldn't afford highly desired players, the A's had to figure out what was most important and go after it.  And if the research is to be believed, it's the ability to get on base by any means necessary.  On-base percentage takes on an almost mythical importance in &quot;Moneyball,&quot; with the A's searching relentlessly for guys who could get on base and do it cheaply.<br />It's this aspect of the book that gets the most attention, and quickly becomes the most fascinating.  Lewis emphasizes how the A's front office, with plenty of help from stat guru (but don't call him a statistician)  Bill James, was able to look at numbers and find the underlying truth.  As Lewis makes clear, it's not just looking at numbers that determines a player's value, it's looking at the *right* numbers.  Lewis often draws parallels to the business world, and these comparisons serve to illustrate how one can make a killing with superior knowledge and counterintuitive thinking.  It was strategies derived from the research of stat geeks that enabled the A's to improve their record in 2002 despite losing three of their top players to free agency.<br />Lewis also takes some time out from the analytical stuff to paint a vivid portrait of Beane himself.  Lewis lets us see him plying his craft in the draft room and at the trading desk, demonstrating the shrewdness of a swindler.  He often appears to be playing a different game from his colleagues, which is exactly what Lewis wants us to think.  And we get to see Beane's (sort of) human side while he works out, and stresses out, during games.  His frequent profanity-laced tirades and incessant tobacco chewing may not be too savory, but Beane is clearly just like the rest of us in at least a few ways.<br />Lewis gives us snapshots of some other, secondary characters as well.  There's Paul DePodesta, Billy's Harvard-educated sidekick.  There's Jeremy Brown, the overweight college catcher who was scarcely rated as a prospect despite having set records at Alabama.  There's Scott Hatteberg, who was cast off by the Red Sox but given a new life in Oakland thanks to his ability to get on base.  Finally there's Chad Bradford, the submarine-throwing pitcher who became apremier setup man with an 84-mile-an-hour fastball and a delivery that scraped the mound.  We get to know all of these guys, and why they fit so well into the A's scheme.<br />Lewis also happens to be a pretty damn good storyteller, with a an engaging and uber-readable style.  Bill James said baseball statistics fascinated him because they had the power of language, and Lewis's discussion of this seemingly boring subject demonstrates why.  By framing a book about baseball in the language of business, Lewis makes his story accessible to enthusiasts of both.  Not to mention, the book is worth reading simply for Lewis's brutally hilarious description of Jeremy Giambi's outfield play.  High comedy, friends, high comedy.<br />I don't think &quot;unputdownable&quot; is a word, but if it were it would definitely be applicable to &quot;Moneyball.&quot;  I could even be convinced to say this is the best sports book I've ever read, and I've read some good ones.  You don't necessarily have to agree with the A's strategies to enjoy the book, but you may well find yourself turned into a stat geek by the end.  And for all you dolts out there saying Billy Beane had nothing to do with drafting Barry Zito, Tim Hudson, and Mark Mulder, it's right there on page 39 from a member of the A's scouting department: &quot;Billy made us take Zito.&quot;  So that's one down right there.e a premier setup man with an 84-mile-an-hour fastball and a delivery that scraped the mound.  We get to know all of these guys, and why they fit so well into the A's scheme.<br />Lewis also happens to be a pretty damn good storyteller, with a an engaging and uber-readable style.  Bill James said baseball statistics fascinated him because they had the power of language, and Lewis's discussion of this seemingly boring subject demonstrates why.  By framing a book about baseball in the language of business, Lewis makes his story accessible to enthusiasts of both.  Not to mention, the book is worth reading simply for Lewis's brutally hilarious description of Jeremy Giambi's outfield play.  High comedy, friends, high comedy.<br />I don't think &quot;unputdownable&quot; is a word, but if it were it would definitely be applicable to &quot;Moneyball.&quot;  I could even be convinced to say this is the best sports book I've ever read, and I've read some good ones.  You don't necessarily have to agree with the A's strategies to enjoy the book, but you may well find yourself turned into a stat geek by the end.  And for all you dolts out there saying Billy Beane had nothing to do with drafting Barry Zito, Tim Hudson, and Mark Mulder, it's right there on page 39 from a member of the A's scouting department: &quot;Billy made us take Zito.&quot;  So that's one down right there.	2003-10-16
US	44413569	R18HBISMZNLMK7	0316921173	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	4	25	28	N	N	You're in bizarro world now...	With \\"Infinite Jest,\\" David Foster Wallace has created an exhaustive, and exhausting, look at modern life.  Set in a twisted but strangely recognizable near-future North American semi-dystopia, the book sets forth Wallace's own post-apocalyptic vision.  Wallace's future hasn't been ravaged by nuclear war, but rather by Americans' increasing dependence on material possessions, controlled substances, and above all, entertainment.  Although you have to navigate through Wallace's myriad (and often entertaining) rhetorical excesses to find them, this book is filled with profound statements on the nature of choice and the pull of addiction.<br />The radically non-linear plot is centered on a likably dysfunctional family named the Incandenzas.  James Incandenza (aka Himself), a tennis-academy founder and wannabe film artiste, has killed himself by sticking his head in a microwave before the book's action, leaving his promiscuous wife and three sons: the emotionless tennis/lexicographal prodigy Hal, professional football punter Orin, and the deformed but endearing Mario.  Their everyday problems may be removed from what most readers experience, but Wallace still manages to make the Incandenzas, including the late and eccentric Himself, into relatable characters in one way or another.<br />Himself has also left another legacy in the form of \\"Infinite Jest,\\" an entertainment cartridge (the book takes place after conventional TV has given way to all-cartridge viewing) so addictive that it turns the viewer into a mindless zombie with no desire whatsoever to do anything but watch the film again.  A group of murderous and legless Quebecois separists (the Wheelchair Assassins, who provided the inspiration for my reviewer name) are trying to get a hold of a master copy of this tape to distribute throughout the newly created Organization Of North American Nations.  If this cartridge sounds like a metaphor, it's because it is.  It isn't hard to guess that Wallace probably feels modern-day notions of entertainment are rotting our brains and free will even as we speak, albeit a lot more slowly and insidiously.<br />The plot isn't the main attraction here, though.  It merely serves a springboard for some inspired weirdness.  Not even Chuck Palahniuk displays such a gift for alternating between the profound and oddball as Wallace.  In one scene, two characters are having a philosophical debate about the nature of choice in modern-day society.  In another, Wallace is expounding on Orin Incandenza's gift for punting a football (as a raging football fan, I found this passage especially enthralling).  In another, we get to see how the United States ceded its toxic waste-infested Northeast corner to Canada to form O.N.A.N.  What do these three passages have to do with each other?  Little to nothing, but they're all gripping just the same.<br />Wallace devotes long passages to the state of America life in his near future and how it got that way.  His descriptions of the evolution of entertainment from TV to viewing cartridges displays a remarkable perception of how entertainment works and what people want from it.  Wallace occasionally delves into winding, wordy descriptions of Himself's film work, which apparently straddled a fine line between profound and pretentious.  Himself's films, with names like \\"Blood Sister: One Tough Nun,\\" \\"Baby Pictures Of Famous Dictators\\" and \\"Good Looking Men In Small Clever Rooms That Utilize Every Centimeter Of Available Space With Mind-Boggling Efficiency,\\" serve as catalysts for speculations on what people like Himself hope to achieve through film, how others view it, and what our views of entertainment say about us as individuals.<br />The book, as this site's editorial review mentions, contains an enormous cast befitting a work of such magnitude, and Wallace has a knack for creating flawed, but likeable, characters.  Much of the action takes place at a tennis academy and drug addicts' halfway house in the fictional Massachusetts town of Enfield, and Wallace paints vivid portraits of the residents of both of these institutions.  Everyone is this book seemingly has some sort of issue, whether in their past or present, and there are few if any characters here who could be described as completely \\"normal.\\"  But that's part of what makes reading this book fun.<br />Of course, the most attention-grabbing aspect of the book is Wallace's stunning verbal dexterity.  This guy can seemingly make words do whatever he wants them to do, and I often found myself enthralled by passages that had little if anything to do with any conventional plot mechanism.  Wallace's description of an amazingly abstract and complex tennis-academy game called Eschaton may not serve any real purpose in the narrative, but it had me glued to the pages just the same.  He even manages to make tennis, a sport in which I have no interest whatsoever, seem fascinating because he writes with such a wide-ranging scope and grasp of detail.<br />Of course, with a book this long (about a thousand pages), what I've written is just an overview.  Everyone can get something different out of this book, and if some of the less enthusiastic reviews on this site are any indication, some people will get nothing out of it.  But you still owe it to yourself to read it and find out for yourself what it holds for you.  So if you have an extra three months or so on your hands, \\"Infinite Jest\\" is definitely worth your time.assachusetts town of Enfield, and Wallace paints vivid portraits of the residents of both of these institutions.  Everyone is this book seemingly has some sort of issue, whether in their past or present, and there are few if any characters here who could be described as completely \\"normal.\\"  But that's part of what makes reading this book fun.<br />Of course, the most attention-grabbing aspect of the book is Wallace's stunning verbal dexterity.  This guy can seemingly make words do whatever he wants them to do, and I often found myself enthralled by passages that had little if anything to do with any conventional plot mechanism.  Wallace's description of an amazingly abstract and complex tennis-academy game called Eschaton may not serve any real purpose in the narrative, but it had me glued to the pages just the same.  He even manages to make tennis, a sport in which I have no interest whatsoever, seem fascinating because he writes with such a wide-ranging scope and grasp of detail.  <br />Of course, with a book this long (about a thousand pages), what I've written is just an overview.  Everyone can get something different out of this book, and if some of the less enthusiastic reviews on this site are any indication, some people will get nothing out of it.  But you still owe it to yourself to read it and find out for yourself what it holds for you.  So if you have an extra three months or so on your hands, \\"Infinite Jest\\" is definitely worth your time.	2003-10-11
US	44413569	R2JJGCBPSXCTHC	1566634849	220278489	Forged in War: Roosevelt, Churchill, and the Second World War	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Titles...who needs 'em?	In &quot;Forged In War,&quot; Warren Kimball seeks to shed light on the relationship between Franklin Roosevelt and Winston Churchill that was, well, forged in World War II.  For those who are interested in what happens away from the battlefield, this book provides an intriguing behind-the-scenes look at cooperation between two Great Powers.  After a brief discussion of the two major players and their characters, the book plunges into the meat of its subject, namely the political and military cooperation between America and Great Britain during and after the war.  Essentially, the narrative is divided into three (somewhat overlapping) parts.  The first segment covers the events leading up to the war and FDR's decision to enter it; the second, the struggles to defeat Germany and Japan; the third, the diplomatic maneuvering over postwar arrangements once the defeat of Germany had been assured.  It's the third part that's most prominent, and also most interesting, as Kimball delves into a discussion of how the prosecution of the war effected, and was effected by, competing visions of the postwar world.  The upheavals caused by wars tend to have a dramatic impact on the way the world looks after they're over, and &quot;Forged In War&quot; is a comprehensive examination of how Roosevelt and Churchill (and Stalin for that matter) attempted to exert their control over these upheavals.  Although Kimball obviously has a certain level of admiration for Churchill and Roosevelt, he makes it clear that for both men practicality overrode principal; as Roosevelt said, he was not a Wilsonian idealist, and the same held true for Churchill.  At the same time that the two Western leaders were finishing off Germany militarily, they were also positioning themselves to prevent Soviet domination of Europe at war's end.  A central focus of the book is the massive series of formal and informal discussions that eventually culminated in the acceptance of Stalin's axiom: whoever liberated a conquered country got to impose on it their own political system.  In this sense, probably the most impressive aspect of the book is the extent to which Kimball captures the intermingling of political and military considerations that can occur during wartime.  Kimball has a straightforward and sometimes entertaining writing style that prevents his narrative from getting too bogged down in detail, so most should find reading this book pretty easy.  For history buffs, &quot;Forged In War&quot; gets a high recommendation.nquered country got to impose on it their own political system.  In this sense, probably the most impressive aspect of the book is the extent to which Kimball captures the intermingling of political and military considerations that can occur during wartime.  Kimball has a straightforward and sometimes entertaining writing style that prevents his narrative from getting too bogged down in detail, so most should find reading this book pretty easy.  For history buffs, &quot;Forged In War&quot; gets a high recommendation.	2003-06-22
US	44413569	R1OIFUX47VILSV	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	5	27	33	N	N	Fun with faith	No less an authority than Ralph Waldo Emerson said one of the chief failings of contemporary Christianity was that it emphasized the myth of Christ over the actual historical figure of Jesus.  Fortunately, Christopher Moore has decided to present us with his own vision of Jesus's human side, as told by his resurrected best friend, Levi bar Alphaeus who is called Biff.<br />Moore has a well-earned reputation as a silly writer, but with &quot;Lamb&quot; he manages to apply his bizarre sense of humor to some more serious subject matter.  &quot;Lamb&quot; is a sort of strange combination of adventure, religious satire, screwball comedy, and heavy philosophy.  At turns it's funny, at other turns it's plaintive, and sometimes it's just odd, but it's always a fun read.  After meeting as kids in Galilee, Biff and Jesus (or Joshua, as he's known in this narrative) embark on an epic journey that takes them all over Asia and back again.  Joshua struggles to figure out how to fill his role as the Messiah, learning along the way from wise men and Buddhist monks.<br />Moore, as one could imagine from a writer with his imagination, has a lot of fun constructing his own version of Jesus's world as it existed two thousand years ago.  He fills his narrative with innumerable humorous details of everyday life (the kids playing a game of &quot;stone the adulteress&quot; is one especially hilarious moment), and it's amusing to hear Biff tell how he and Joshua brought the world such inventions as sarcasm, cafe latte, and Judo.<br />Silly as it can be, &quot;Lamb&quot; is surprisingly thoughtful, even touching, at some moments.  Even though he's the son of God, it's still easy to symphathize with Joshua's struggle to find his way in life.  Moore also makes &quot;Lamb&quot; a tale of friendship, capturing the complexities of the relationship between Joshua, Biff, and Mary Magdalene (Biff loves Mary, Mary loves Joshua, Joshua can't know woman, so you get the idea).  Really, though, it's the philosophy and theology that make this book.  As presented by Moore, Joshua has a completely inclusive view of religion, heavily indebted to Eastern thought (especially Buddhism).  Against the skepticism of those who know him, even the Apostles, Joshua sets out to save the souls of all people, not just the Jews who have been &quot;chosen&quot; by God.  I was a history major in college, and I can say with reasonable certainty that the world would've been a better place if more people subscribed to the tolerant view of religion set forth in &quot;Lamb.&quot;  It's too bad that many of those who call themselves religious don't know or care enough about the teachings of Jesus, but &quot;Lamb&quot; is a good reminder of what he stood for, especially if you want a laugh.the philosophy and theology that make this book.  As presented by Moore, Joshua has a completely inclusive view of religion, heavily indebted to Eastern thought (especially Buddhism).  Against the skepticism of those who know him, even the Apostles, Joshua sets out to save the souls of all people, not just the Jews who have been &quot;chosen&quot; by God.  I was a history major in college, and I can say with reasonable certainty that the world would've been a better place if more people subscribed to the tolerant view of religion set forth in &quot;Lamb.&quot;  It's too bad that many of those who call themselves religious don't know or care enough about the teachings of Jesus, but &quot;Lamb&quot; is a good reminder of what he stood for, especially if you want a laugh.	2003-03-11
US	44413569	R26FCSSKKRLJL9	0140186832	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	259	275	N	N	A tough read, but more than worth it	I'm always up for a good challenge, whether it be in books, music or movies, and from what I've heard Joyce is about as challenging as they come in the literary world.  However, since it seemed like &quot;Ulysses&quot; or &quot;Finnegan's Wake&quot; would be a bit much to start with, I found myself reading &quot;A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man&quot; as an introduction to his work.  And although I found this book about as easy to get into as Princeton, it was about as rewarding as well.  &quot;Portrait&quot; is certainly anything but a light read.  Joyce's meandering narrative and serpentine prose can be confusing to say the least, and on more than one occasion I had to read a sentence about five times in order to figure out what I had just read.  For all its verbosity, though, &quot;Portrait&quot; is an essential read because the story of Stephen Dedalus carries so much resonance.  I'm about the same age as Stephen was in this story, and I can relate pretty easily to his search for answers.  Growing up in Ireland around the turn of the twentieth century, Stephen faces existential questions that should ring true for a young person coming from any culture at any time.  He tries to find satisfaction by giving in to his lust, and when that doesn't work he goes all the way to the other end of the spectrum in seeking fulfillment through religious devotion.  In the end, however, neither of these extremes provides Stephen with the answers he's looking for.  Stephen's story demonstrates one unfortunate fact of life: when you're seeking meaning, there are no easy answers.  Ultimately, as Stephen tells his friend Cranly, he decides that his solution is to &quot;express myself in some mode of life or art as freely as I can and as wholly as I can,&quot; even if it means making mistakes or being spurned by society.  In &quot;A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man,&quot; Joyce outlines some important ideas that have since become prominent in literature, notably noncomformity, self-expression, coming of age, and the nature of religious belief.  This book may not have been perfectly written, but since Joyce was aiming so high it's easy to overlook any imperfections in his style.  &quot;Portrait&quot; was written with plenty of intelligence and soul, so it's easy to see why it's still read after all these years.ity, self-expression, coming of age, and the nature of religious belief.  This book may not have been perfectly written, but since Joyce was aiming so high it's easy to overlook any imperfections in his style.  &quot;Portrait&quot; was written with plenty of intelligence and soul, so it's easy to see why it's still read after all these years.	2003-02-16
US	44413569	R17TXAL5PAQG50	0060976624	408140508	Thank You for Smoking	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Great satire, so-so thriller	Nick Naylor, the protagonist of Christopher Buckley's \\"Thank You for Smoking,\\" gives new definition to the term \\"antihero.\\"  Despite his position, he's not really a bad guy.  Sure, he makes six figures a year lying through his teeth as the chief lobbyist at the Academy of Tobacco Studies in Washington, but he's not really making anybody smoke cigarettes.  As he explains it, he's just moderating between two competing groups, namely the cigarette companies and the anti-smoking zealots.  Besides, someone's got to pay the mortgage and his son's prep-school tuition.  Even he realizes that his rationalization sounds like something a Nuremberg defendant might say (\\"I vas only paying ze mortgage\\"), but it takes a certain courage to go on TV and say there's no demonstrable link between smoking and disease.  Perhaps Buckley's greatest achievement here is that he can take a guy who lies to sell cigarettes and make him into a sympathetic figure.<br />Nick Naylor's life provides the basis for Buckley's often hilarious look at the \\"neo-puritanism\\" of mid-nineties America and the attempts of tobacco companies to fight it.  And although I hate cigarettes, I think a book like this needed to be written.  Anybody who's ever been repulsed by those ridiculous \\"Truth\\" ads where a bunch of obnoxious young people harass those who make and sell cigarettes should get a good laugh at Buckley's portrayal of the sanctimonious forces of political correctness.  As Nick tells Oprah Winfrey in one uproarious scene, cigarette opponents aren't above manipulating children and trying to tell everyone else how to think.  And anything that takes the wind out of the sails of political correctness is fine by me.<br />Much of the book's humor comes from Nick's lunch meetings with his friends in the Mod (an acronym for \\"Merchants of Death\\") Squad.  Composed of Nick, alcohol lobbyist Polly Bailey, and one-armed gun advocate Bobby Jay Bliss, the Mod Squad is sort of a combination support group and mutual admiration society.  In the presence of their own, the three death merchants can work on their PR strategies, discuss their latest misfortunes at the hands of the neo-puritans, and compare just how much death they've caused and how hated they are.  In one particularly humorous scene, Polly and Bobby Jay are saying how much hate mail they get, and Nick just scoffs and says, \\"HATE mail?  ALL of my mail is hate mail.\\"<br />Of course, even satires need plots, so Buckley throws in some intrigue regarding a plot to have Nick killed.  When a team of killers kidnaps Nick and covers him in nicotine patches, Nick finds himself suspected by the FBI of having done the deed himself as a PR stunt.  In an effort to clear his name, Nick eventually traces the attempt on his life to a conspiracy in the upper levels of the tobacco lobby.  Although this plot had possibilities, it felt somewhat underdeveloped to me.  At a mere 272 pages, \\"Thank You for Smoking\\" isn't quite long enough to function effectively as both a satire and a thriller.  The plot's pretty interesting, I just would've like to see a little more space devoted to it.<br />Still, this book is worth a read.  It's fast-paced, well written, and remarkably perceptive.  More than once I found myself laughing out loud at the absurdity of it all.  If an avid non-smoker like myself can find himself rooting for a tobacco lobbyist, than anyone can.ration society.  In the presence of their own, the three death merchants can work on their PR strategies, discuss their latest misfortunes at the hands of the neo-puritans, and compare just how much death they've caused and how hated they are.  In one particularly humorous scene, Polly and Bobby Jay are saying how much hate mail they get, and Nick just scoffs and says, \\"HATE mail?  ALL of my mail is hate mail.\\"  <br />Of course, even satires need plots, so Buckley throws in some intrigue regarding a plot to have Nick killed.  When a team of killers kidnaps Nick and covers him in nicotine patches, Nick finds himself suspected by the FBI of having done the deed himself as a PR stunt.  In an effort to clear his name, Nick eventually traces the attempt on his life to a conspiracy in the upper levels of the tobacco lobby.  Although this plot had possibilities, it felt somewhat underdeveloped to me.  At a mere 272 pages, \\"Thank You for Smoking\\" isn't quite long enough to function effectively as both a satire and a thriller.  The plot's pretty interesting, I just would've like to see a little more space devoted to it.  <br />Still, this book is worth a read.  It's fast-paced, well written, and remarkably perceptive.  More than once I found myself laughing out loud at the absurdity of it all.  If an avid non-smoker like myself can find himself rooting for a tobacco lobbyist, than anyone can.	2003-02-01
US	44413569	R2YSNWQV80WMMN	0743202120	692090769	War in a Time of Peace: Bush, Clinton, and the Generals	Books	5	4	4	N	N	About as exhaustive as you can get in five hundred pages	I became a fan of David Halberstam's through his sportswriting, but since I have a longstanding interest in history and current events, I decided to check out some of his political writing as well.  Having read this book, I'm glad I did.  In \\"War In a Time of Peace\\" Halberstam attempts to summarize and analyze the key components of American foreign policy from 1989 to 2001 in a (relatively) brief and user-friendly five hundred pages.  And it's a rousing success.  Halberstam obviously has a profound understanding of the vast array of forces that shape modern-day politics, and he has an engaging writing style that keeps things moving right along.<br />The main thrust of the book is an examination of the effect the end of the Cold War had on U.S. foreign policy.  Much of Halberstam's discussion focuses on two related themes: first, the decline in importance of foreign policy in American politics following the removal of the Communist threat; and second, the loss of clear-cut foreign-policy philosophies and objectives without the Soviets as an enemy.  Halberstam proves his first thesis quickly enough with this fact: the first President Bush, despite his successes in the Cold War and the Gulf War, couldn't get himself reelected in 1992 in the face of the Clinton campaign's \\"It's the economy, stupid\\" logic because the American public didn't care as much about foreign affairs as it had even five years ago.  The second theme of the book, regarding the ambiguity that accompanied foreign policy in the nineties, is reflected in the debates over just how and how much the U.S. should get involved in battles in faraway places like Somalia and (especially) the former Yugoslavia.  Central to these debates was a fundamental question: should America, with its overwhelming military might, use its military as a police force in areas in which it lacked a vital national interest?  In the wake of Vietnam, this was not an easy question to answer, and it loomed large over many of the Clinton administration's important foreign-policy decisions.  Halberstam goes to great lengths to discuss the complex mix of factors that influenced these decisions in the Clinton years: American electoral politics, international politics, the internal machinations of the military, American public opinion, changes in journalistic practices, advances in military technology, Bill Clinton's personal problems, the legacy of Vietnam, and much more.  Halberstam also gives the reader biographical sketches of many of the major American political and military players, as if to try to explain the impact their own experiences had on their views. He's sympathetic to these people, but at the same time Halberstam has a keen understanding of their weaknesses and how they worked against them.<br />I'm not really what you'd call a foreign politics or current events aficionado, but I think that may be why I found this book such a good read.  It has enough detail to provide a comprehensive overview of American foreign policy in the post-Cold War period, without getting too bogged down in minutiae.  At the same time, Halberstam demonstrates a remarkable perceptiveness in tracing the links between events and personalities that shaped America's actions.  Highly recommended.n administration's important foreign-policy decisions.  Halberstam goes to great lengths to discuss the complex mix of factors that influenced these decisions in the Clinton years: American electoral politics, international politics, the internal machinations of the military, American public opinion, changes in journalistic practices, advances in military technology, Bill Clinton's personal problems, the legacy of Vietnam, and much more.  Halberstam also gives the reader biographical sketches of many of the major American political and military players, as if to try to explain the impact their own experiences had on their views. He's sympathetic to these people, but at the same time Halberstam has a keen understanding of their weaknesses and how they worked against them.  <br />I'm not really what you'd call a foreign politics or current events aficionado, but I think that may be why I found this book such a good read.  It has enough detail to provide a comprehensive overview of American foreign policy in the post-Cold War period, without getting too bogged down in minutiae.  At the same time, Halberstam demonstrates a remarkable perceptiveness in tracing the links between events and personalities that shaped America's actions.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-21
US	44413569	R2P3S4VJN787BF	0393322157	805709963	Glue	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Welsh gets serious	Although \\"Glue\\" contains lots of the sex, drugs, and violence that can be found in other Irvine Welsh books like \\"Filth\\" and \\"Trainspotting,\\" it also finds Welsh seemingly trying to inject some more meaning into his writing.  And for the most part, it's successful.  The book follows four friends, Billy, Gally, Terry, and Carl, at ten-year intervals from their childhoods in the Edinburgh projects to their mid-thirties.  With all four men getting a turn to narrate and some third-person narration as well, Welsh gives us a look inside the heads of each one, and we get to see how they're shaped by their working-class urban background.  Welsh has a knack for crafting believable characters who are flawed but sympathetic, and \\"Glue\\" is no exception.<br />As \\"Glue\\" wears on and Billy, Gally, Terry, and Carl get older, their lives become more difficult and complicated.  As teenagers, they're preoccupied with little more than getting girls into bed and taking part in soccer riots.  By the book's conclusion, they've had to confront the realities of adulthood: changing social mores, marriage, kids, jobs, drugs, crime, street morality, death, and more.  And although the four men are joined by the bonds of friendship, Welsh also gives the reader an idea of the often complex and self-serving nature of these relationships.  I think what Welsh was essentially going for was an examination of how life's complexity and ambiguity only grows as people get older, and he nails it.<br />Of course, it wouldn't be an Irvine Welsh novel without loads of profanity and graphic prose, and there's enough of that here to keep just about anyone entertained.  Much like a Chuck Palahniuk novel, \\"Glue\\" is full of set pieces that are both revolting and hilarious at the same time (Terry's partner in crime getting covered in excrement is one prominent example).  But at more than 450 pages covering a thirty-year period, \\"Glue\\" also aims to be more epic in scope than the typical Welsh or Palahniuk book.  I don't like this book as much as the utterly hysterical \\"Filth,\\" but it's nice to see Welsh trying to add some more nuance and meaning to his work.on't like this book as much as the utterly hysterical \\"Filth,\\" but it's nice to see Welsh trying to add some more nuance and meaning to his work.	2003-01-12
US	44413569	R1OVNYB9KUO6NJ	0380792745	948903576	The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not too substantial, but definitely enjoyable	\\"The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove\\" is sort of like a good episode of \\"Seinfeld.\\"  You may not learn much reading it, and it certainly won't make you any wiser, but you'll probably wind up thoroughly amused.  There isn't as much lurking under the surface here as there is in, say, a Chuck Palahniuk novel, but it's hard to deny Christopher Moore's vivid imagination and sense of humor.  For a fast-paced, good-natured story with plenty of twists and turns, \\"Lust Lizard\\" is just about perfect.<br />The book concerns a sleepy California town, Pine Cove, that gets an unexpected visit from an ancient carnivorous sea monster seeking an old bluesman who has come to play at the local saloon.  At the same time, the guilt-ridden town psychiatrist has taken her unsuspecting patients off their anti-depressants, and the combination of suppressed serotonin levels and the monster's presence turns the town's libido way up.  What ensues is a likably wacky tale of vice, greed, and lust, where pretty much everybody is nursing a secret, a checkered past, or both.  The book draws its humor from an abundance of sharply-drawn characters and outrageous situations, and Moore has a direct and witty writing style that makes for some easy and entertaining reading.  The parade of offbeat characters includes a weed-addled town constable, an aging former scream queen, a group of religious zealots, a pharmacist with a strong affinity for marine mammals, and a lot more.<br />Overall, \\"The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove\\" makes for some excellent, semi-light reading.  It does sag a bit in the middle, but it gets its momentum back in time for an unpredictable and chaotic conclusion that ends everything on a high note.  Moore seems to have a knack for crafting characters, such as constable Theophilus Crowe, that are both flawed and symphathetic at the same time.  I generally go for somewhat heavier reading, but if I'm in the mood for some levity I now know where to look.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-11
US	44413569	R1V4RS1IYL6R8Z	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Palahniuk's first triumph	I was braced for this book by having seen its film adaptation about seven times before I read it, but I can only imagine what reading this book must have felt like for the uninitiated.  Much like the bare-knuckle brawls its characters stage, \\"Fight Club\\" is a no-holds barred look at the nihilism that lurks just beneath the facade of our modern society.  With American culture now obviously placing heavy emphasis on consumerism and status, it's interesting to see what one man thinks it may be breeding.  And I can't think of a better man to deliver the message than Chuck Palahniuk.  As most now know, \\"Fight Club\\" centers around a group of disillusioned young men who pummel each other on a regular basis in order to fight the numbness of living in a superifical society.  And as this and all of Palahniuk's subsequent novels prove, he has a gift for creating both striking sentences and memorable characters.  The most memorable character here, of course, is Tyler Durden.  He's a one-man wrecking crew of sorts, using Fight Club to aim at nothing less than the total destruction of society. In Tyler's view, the world is so far gone that there's nothing left to do but start over.  Countering his extreme pessimism is his alter ego, the narrator, who obviously symphathizes with Tyler's beliefs but can't quite commit to his methods.  The struggle for supremacy between these two personalities forms the crux of the novel, with the fate of American civilization perhaps in the balance.  By the end, the book has gotten a little out of control, but the read getting there is about as compelling and thought-provoking as they come.	2002-12-01
US	44413569	R1IK2FVLUUTIAS	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Hard-hitting, obscene, and very, very funny	\\"Choke\\" may not be Chuck Palahniuk's best novel, but it's certainly his funniest.  His previous novels had their moments of humor, but \\"Choke\\" really turns it up a notch.  This book's graphic, nihilistic prose and Palahniuk's talent for coming up with the perfect sentence had me laughing almost nonstop throughout.  Of course, since this is a Chuck Palahniuk novel, there's also a message buried below the strange plot and twisted humor.<br />\\"Choke\\"'s hero, Victor Mancini, isn't really a hero at all.  Rather, he's a brilliantly crafted antihero, who seems to represent the cynicism and aimlessness that are often associated (rightly or not) with gen-xers.  He's a med school dropout who works a horrific job at a simulated colonial farm, goes to sex-addiction workshops to pick up chicks, feigns choking in restaurants to get people to send him money, and spends time assuaging his guilt by visiting his mentally deteriorating mother in the hospital.  Oh, and he just might be the Messiah.  To go with Victor, Palahniuk has also assembled a memorable supporting cast: there's Denny, Victor's chronic-masturbator friend; the collection of stoners who work with him at the farm; and Paige Marshall, the \\"Doctor\\" who lets Victor in on the secrets contained in his mother's diary.  Or does she?  In Palahniuk's world, the next big surprise might be just a page away.<br />\\"Choke\\" may also be the easiest of Pahlaniuk's novels to get into.  The pacing is quick, and there are enough savagely funny scenes to keep you turning the pages to get to the next one.  In between the funny parts, though, there's plenty of Palahniuk's typical examination of identity, perception, and societal roles.  I think that's what I like most about Palahniuk's fiction: it's highly funny and eminently readable, but often thought-provoking at the same time.  I really don't think you can go wrong with any Palahniuk novel, but I would put \\"Choke\\" and \\"Invisible Monsters\\" at the top of my list.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-29
US	44413569	R2NURRHI3GJ5G4	0393318680	603345732	Filth	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Inspired weirdness	\\"Filth\\" is doubtless one of the most brilliantly sick books I've ever had the pleasure of reading.  It's disgusting, offensive, obscene, and loads of fun.  Detective Sergeant Bruce Robertson of Edinburgh, the book's protaganist and nattator, deserves to go down in history as one of fiction's great antiheroes.  He's a highly unpleasant character, a bigoted Machiavellian who looks down his nose at all those around him without showing much reverence or respect for anyone or anything.  He spends most of the narrative drinking, doing cocaine, abusing his authority as a police officer, angling to get a promotion by any means necessary, covertly tormenting his poor co-worker Bladesy, and having lots and lots of sex.  The narration, delivered entirely in Scottish dialect, is littered with profanity (apparently they're big fans of the \\"C\\" word over in Scotland) and describes Robertson's personal life down to its most grisly details.  Although Bruce Robertson is not at all a likeable person, I think what makes him such an appealing character is that for all his abrasiveness, he's still rather believable.  Sure, he's somewhat of a caricature, but at the same time he's a sort of perverse everyman.  I mean, who knows how many people like Bruce Robertson are out there, playing nice to our faces while never letting on their true thoughts and maybe even plotting against us?  I'm willing to bet that there are many such people.  Detective Sergeant Robertson is just one hilarious example of the type of misanthropic person that the world is probably full of.  I also like the idea of having Bruce's tapeworm do some of the narrating, especially towards the end of the book; it's an innovative way of filling the reader in on the back story and it's often pretty funny as well.  The only part of this book I didn't like very much was the ending, as it was the one thing I didn't want to see happen.  Oh well, this is still a hard-hitting and humorous read.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-23
US	44413569	R1L8U3BE2FWSU5	0415921988	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Sobering and thought-provoking	In \\"Me Against My Brother,\\" Scott Peterson tells a terrifingly too-real tale of three ravaged African countries.  On its surface, \\"Me Against My Brother\\" concerns the events in the war-torn countries of Somalia, Sudan, and Rwanda.  Familiar concepts like war, genocide, and famine are prominently discussed, but they are really just a backdrop for the true story.  For all the talk of battles, massacres, and starvation, \\"Me Against My Brother\\" really tells a very human story about the ethical failings of people.  At its heart, the book examines the culpability for the horrific events it describes, and finds plenty of people to blame, Americans included.  Ultimately, the issues discussed in this book are not just African issues, but universal ones.<br />The first segment of the book, covering events in Somalia, mainly addresses the failures of US and UN peacekeeping missions (tellingly, Peterson frequently puts the words \\"Peacekeeping\\" and \\"Peacekeepers\\" in quotation marks).  Peterson describes how what was supposed to be a simple mission to keep the peace and alleviate a famine turned into an all-out mission on the part of the US and UN to catch warlord Mohammed Farah Aidid, whatever the price.  Quickly, and without a clear-cut reason, the US and UN forces conducted a bungling military campaign that resulted in the deaths of countless innocent Somalis, foreign press, and 18 American servicemen in the firefight immortalized in \\"Black Hawk Down.\\"  Through the examination of the ridiculously excessive and unncessary measures taken by forces who were allegedly to keep peace, Peterson provides a glimpse into the reasons for anti-American sentiment that seems chillingly relevant in these times.<br />The section on Sudan focuses mainly on the endless cycle of violence between the Muslim north and Christian south.  Peterson tells of how certain hardline factions in the north hijacked the political process and used religion to justify a never-ending war (this should sound familiar to anyone who reads headlines).  The relentless cycle of violence and the tales of unthinkable suffering that come from it only serve to underline the utter pointlessness of the conflict.  As the book says, the war has now become an end unto itself; people live solely for the war and know no other way of life.<br />The concluding section on Rwanda concerns itself mainly with the 1994 genocide in which as many as 1 million Tutsis were massacred by the Hutu majority, often with nothing more than clubs and machetes.  Perhaps even more depressing than the genocide, however, are the stories of the American politicians who skirted the obligation to act by playing word games in order to avoid using the word \\"genocide.\\"  Ultimately, though, the story of Rwanda turns into a rumination on the very nature of evil.  So many Hutus were involved in the killing, often butchering women and children by hand, that one can only conclude that there are a great deal of people capable of perpretating such atrocities under similar circumstances.  The tales of the Rwandan genocide force us to confront the fact that a similar dark side lies in most, and perhaps all, people.  As British doctor Ian Palmer says in the book's final chapter, the genocide exposed the dark side that we are all afraid to see, and Rwanda is within every one of us.<br />All in all, \\"Me Against My Brother\\" is a terrific and illuminating book.  Peterson deserves to be commended for providing an unflinching potrait of events in Africa during the 1990's.  The issues discussed here can be applied to pretty much any conflict, though, because they're part of what it means to be human.  If more people would think seriously about the events described here, then perhaps such tragedies could be prevented in the future.to anyone who reads headlines).  The relentless cycle of violence and the tales of unthinkable suffering that come from it only serve to underline the utter pointlessness of the conflict.  As the book says, the war has now become an end unto itself; people live solely for the war and know no other way of life.  <BR>The concluding section on Rwanda concerns itself mainly with the 1994 genocide in which as many as 1 million Tutsis were massacred by the Hutu majority, often with nothing more than clubs and machetes.  Perhaps even more depressing than the genocide, however, are the stories of the American politicians who skirted the obligation to act by playing word games in order to avoid using the word \\"genocide.\\"  Ultimately, though, the story of Rwanda turns into a rumination on the very nature of evil.  So many Hutus were involved in the killing, often butchering women and children by hand, that one can only conclude that there are a great deal of people capable of perpretating such atrocities under similar circumstances.  The tales of the Rwandan genocide force us to confront the fact that a similar dark side lies in most, and perhaps all, people.  As British doctor Ian Palmer says in the book's final chapter, the genocide exposed the dark side that we are all afraid to see, and Rwanda is within every one of us. <BR>All in all, \\"Me Against My Brother\\" is a terrific and illuminating book.  Peterson deserves to be commended for providing an unflinching potrait of events in Africa during the 1990's.  The issues discussed here can be applied to pretty much any conflict, though, because they're part of what it means to be human.  If more people would think seriously about the events described here, then perhaps such tragedies could be prevented in the future.	2002-08-08
US	44413569	R1FK3Z858M2DHG	0679729941	133815702	Hitler and Stalin: Parallel Lives	Books	4	52	56	N	Y	A grueling but rewarding read	\\"Hitler and Stalin\\" places two of history's most destructive figures side by side, telling their stories both individually and (periodically) in comparison.  Bullock's technique makes for some mighty interesting reading, with a thorough examination of just how so many people came to their deaths through the whims of two men.  Using their political careers as a window into Hitler's and Stalin's personalities, Bullock emerges having drawn a portrait of the similarities and differences between the two men, and how their characters led to the the events that defined their lives.  The book also paints the lives of the two men in human and historical terms, making sure to document just how they managed to cause suffering on such a grand scale.<br />From their humble beginnings, Bullock examines how Hitler and Stalin managed to gain positions of absolute power over their respective countries.  Stalin is portrayed as an almost shadowy figure, spending his early career lurking in the background behind the public figure of Lenin, waiting his chance while expertly playing the game of power politics.  Hitler, on the other hand, is depicted as a gambler, taking chances he wasn't expected to take, attempting to seize power through calculated boldness and his fiery public persona.  With both men, however, Bullock stresses how they succeeded by going just a little farther than others, capitalizing on their enemies' perceptions of what they would and would not do.<br />Another comparison Bullock draws between Hitler and Stalin lies in the men's complete lack of anything that could appropriately be described as human feeling or comparison.  To both, as Bullock says, other people were simply objects to be manipulated or obstacles to be eliminated.  To Stalin the objective was getting and keeping power, to Hilter achieving his wild dreams of a German empire, with neither goal leaving any room for consideration of others.  It seems to be this one characteristic, above all others, that Bullock sees as motivating the two dictators' action.  The starving of the Russian peasants, the Holocaust, the purges, and the massive suffering of the war are all presented by Bullock as just extensions of Hitler's and Stalin's personal missions. He refers at one point to how casually Stalin was able to send to their deaths men with whom he had long worked, as if it required no more effort than the stroke of his pen.  By discussing how easily both Hitler and Stalin brought such suffering upon others, Bullock provides a chilling view of just how inhuman these men were.<br />Bullock tells the tale of these two despicable, yet compelling figures with an expert balance of detatchment and emotion.  Although he typically discusses his topic in a very matter-of-fact manner, he will occassionally pause and tell tales of the horrors of collectivization, or the purges, or the Holocaust, bringing an appropriate tone of righteous indignation to these events.  Clearly, Bullock's intention in attempting to get inside these men's heads is to expose how truly evil they were, rather than attempt to put down some psychobabble to explain their actions.  And one can't help but be moved in his epilogue, where he discusses his experiences in Jerusalem at the Holocaust memorials.  If this book has a problem, it's its incredible density, but this is a very minor flaw.  4.5 stars.lock sees as motivating the two dictators' action.  The starving of the Russian peasants, the Holocaust, the purges, and the massive suffering of the war are all presented by Bullock as just extensions of Hitler's and Stalin's personal missions. He refers at one point to how casually Stalin was able to send to their deaths men with whom he had long worked, as if it required no more effort than the stroke of his pen.  By discussing how easily both Hitler and Stalin brought such suffering upon others, Bullock provides a chilling view of just how inhuman these men were. <BR>Bullock tells the tale of these two despicable, yet compelling figures with an expert balance of detatchment and emotion.  Although he typically discusses his topic in a very matter-of-fact manner, he will occassionally pause and tell tales of the horrors of collectivization, or the purges, or the Holocaust, bringing an appropriate tone of righteous indignation to these events.  Clearly, Bullock's intention in attempting to get inside these men's heads is to expose how truly evil they were, rather than attempt to put down some psychobabble to explain their actions.  And one can't help but be moved in his epilogue, where he discusses his experiences in Jerusalem at the Holocaust memorials.  If this book has a problem, it's its incredible density, but this is a very minor flaw.   4.5 stars.	2002-05-22
