US	44415913	RJYN9E9P7XKFN	0971759502	327170423	By Way of Deception: The Making of a Mossad officer	Books	4	96	109	N	N	Half the Story	One thing you should know about this book is that in the sequel, The Other Side of Deception, Ostrovsky admits that some of the info in By Way of Deception was deliberately inaccurate and meant to serve as a message to the Mossad that they want to leave him alone or he will reveal the real info.  The Other Side of Deception also reveals his true reasons for writing an expose, not so much idealism as it was self-preservation (if he weren't Machiavellian, do you think they would have made him a case worker?). <br /> <br />To address another reviewer's doubts: he was given protection by the Canadian government.  And he acted quickly to make sure he had a lot of publicity so any sudden death would be carefully investigated with the Mossad being the obvious suspect.	2005-01-22
US	44415913	R2F1ZHPEPCPKV2	0060746734	799934454	The Connection: How al Qaeda's Collaboration with Saddam Hussein Has Endangered America	Books	1	33	95	N	N	Yes, Virginia, There IS a Santa Claus	OK. So all these years everyone thought that Osama Bin Laden, an insane Islamic extremist who considers, e.g., Christianity and secularism to be a blight upon the world, hated the guts of Saddam Hussein because Iraq had a completely secular government with, e.g., Christians in high-ranking positions (not that they treated every religion well in Iraq, but they were far better than, say, Saudi Arabia).  But Hayes has proof that this was all just an act the two carefully orchestrated over the years in between their insane rants.  Why does Hayes believe this?  Because someone in the White House wrote a self-serving memo suggesting that Osama and Hussein were POSSIBLY allies after stretching flimsy evidence in a manner that US intelligence agencies completely rejected.  Frankly, Rumsfeld does a better job in his attempts to redefine the word &quot;torture&quot;.  And never mind the fact that Al-Qaeda has become more active in Iraq since Saddam was kicked out, or the fact that almost every 9/11 hijacker came from Saudi Arabia.  It was all Iraq's fault, and the fact that the Bush family has strong business ties with Saudi Arabia has nothing to do with the fact that Iraq was chosen as the location of the Bush Doctrine's gala showcase.  And to give you a good idea of Hayes' sophisticated knowledge of all things Middle-East: he publically stated that he believes that Iran has never used or possessed any illegal WMDs.<br />Hayes should stick to writing books about how Christine Aguillera and Kelly Osborne are the very superduperest bestest of friends (Vanilla Ice said so! Shhhh! I've got it right here in a letter he wrote to Eminem!).	2004-06-22
US	44415913	R2HYZMG1T9ODJ5	0060286288	57898197	Little Lit: It Was a Dark and Silly Night...	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Great for Kids	While the first two Little Lit books appealed equally to adults and children, it would appear that this third book will appeal more strongly to children.  Maybe the editors felt guilty about starting battles between parents and children over who got to read their books first.  It isn't that the stories are any less intelligent.  And most of the artwork continues to be quite stunning (although William Joyce's contribution is my least favourite, he does an excellent job of imitating the art of Winsor McCay).  The problem appears to be with the book's theme: silliness.<br />All of the stories (except for the fun Basil Wolverton reprint) are entitled \\"It Was a Dark and Silly Night\\", and are quite nonsensical. Maybe adults are too serious to appreciate silliness unless it is hip or postmodern.  Kids, however, never seem to grow tired of silly stories, perhaps because they are good at engaging the imagination. But regardless of the reasons why this book is less enjoyable for adults, you could do far worse than giving young children a copy.  <br />Desipte the fact that this book will appeal more to younger readers, I still enjoyed some of the stories.  The entry by Lemony Snicket and Richard Sala begins with awkward narration, but its humourous take on the yeti legend is interesting and has a great, bizarre punchline.  The story by Neil Gaiman and Gahan Wilson is slight, but it should be able to cheer up anyone (I've always had a soft spot for silly monsters).  And Patrick McDonnell, whose contribution's silliness is matched by its lyrical beauty, demonstrates why he is currently the only person producing a consistently good comic strip for newspapers (Mutts).<br />However, my personal favourite is the story by Kaz.  With its extremely surreal imagery and humour, this one reminded me of some of the more outrageous, anarchistic Looney Tunes cartoons of which I was especially fond, such the one that takes place in the land of the Dodo bird.  Except for its length, and the fact that it is kid-friendly, this contribution would not be out of place amongst Kaz' Underworld cartoons.<br />The only story I wish was left out is the one by Joost Swarte, but I've never liked his work.<br />I doubt any adult will enjoy everything in this volume (these books are for children at any rate), but I still highly recommend this book to anyone who has kids and to those adults who like to remember what it was like being a kid.	2003-10-26
US	44415913	R1NOCJIIGMU15K	0823050211	455421599	Spy Vs. Spy: The Complete Casebook	Books	3	4	28	N	N	...vs. Spy vs. Spy vs. Spy...	I always loved Mad Magazine, whether it was for its sometimes brilliant satires or just for its whacky zaniness.  But Spy vs. Spy has always been my least favourite of its features.  There is some creativity at first in its Rube Goldbergesque depiction of complex schemes involving cross and double-cross.  However, try reading more than 5 of the strips in one sitting and the repetition of its themes becomes more and more unbearable.<br />Perhaps it was a brilliant attempt at metafiction with the goal of illustrating the pointlessness of violence through its repetition, or an illustration of the nature of intelligence agencies whose sole raison d'etre appears to be to create and sustain their own enemies in order to perpetuate their existence (look up the histories of Reinhard Gehlen, Batista, the Shah of Iran, Air America, Bin Laden, and Saddam Hussein to learn how the CIA has contributed to the world).  Or perhaps the total interchangeability of its characters belies the absurdity of the world's conflicts which are all rooted in meaningless trivialities (skin colour, religion, nationality, etc).  However, having read reprints of some of Prohias' unsophisticated (albeit extremely courageous)political cartoons from when he was still a resident of Castro's Cuba, this would appear highly unlikely.<br />Any one of Sergio Aragone's \\"marginal drawings\\" from Mad has far more contextual complexity than every Spy vs. Spy strip put together.	2003-07-29
US	44415913	R3KTGVYKMUEV5D	1589821122	291436296	Father's Touch	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Educational	This is not the type of book I would ordinarily read.  Books on child abuse tend to be either too depressing, self-exploitative, or resort to too much pop psychology without managing to give any real insight.  However, these are all things which \\"Father's Touch\\" has managed to avoid.  Despite the horrible subject matter of this book, Donald D'Haene manages to draw you into his story with his very cinematic writing style and manages to illustrate how horrible child abuse is without ever resorting to lurid details. And, most importantly, Donald uses his story in a very constructive manner.<br />One of the things which is often most confusing to people who haven't been the victim of child abuse is how such things can go on without being detected or why people in such a situation don't just try to escape it.  The fact is that many people try to escape, but due to lack of support, fail, while others are so psychologically torn down that they feel incapable of escaping.  Donald manages to create an understanding of how this happens, illustrating how often abuse builds slowly over time, how the abuser manages to assert himself over others until they feel powerless, and how abuse can even begin to seem a normal part of life or something to be taken for granted, like the fact that the sun will rise in the morning.<br />This book also does an excellent job of illustrating how necessary it is for there to be a strong social support system for those who are not able to help themselves.  Often, victims might not know there is any alternative available.  Some cities are filled with homeless children who have found living on the street to be their only means of escape.  Donald did not ultimately resort to such drastic measures himself, but his early attempts to get help often just resulted in the sort of social rejection which does drive many victims into feeling complete hopelessness and even self-blame.  <br />And this book couldn't have come at a better time with the few support structures in place here in Ontario, where the events in this book take place, being threatened by massive cuts in funding being made to pay for unrealistic tax breaks promised during the last provincial election.  We are now seeing shelters for abused women and children being closed down when instead more should be built.  It is also ironic that Donald was not given any help by anyone he turned to in Aylmer years ago, but now the protection system is being attacked by critics in Aylmer who see the authorities' early intervention in another recent case as a form of persecution!  Sure, the system is open to abuse, but as \\"Father's Touch\\" illustrates, such \\"interference\\" is often necessary.  Critics in the Aylmer area would be especially well advised to read this book.  <br />Sadly, in Aylmer, there is still a great deal of abuse which goes unchecked due to the presence of some very isolated communities, much like the one described in \\"Father's Touch\\", and there is now a cult in town which advocates that any child showing any sign of independent thought should be \\"beaten into submission\\".  What happened to Donald is still happening in to others, and is actually finding acceptance by some merely because it is physical instead of sexual abuse.  Hopefully, this book can create more understanding for the victims and encourage others to give the victims their support.	2002-09-16
US	44415913	R2ZQAPLPZYGPF7	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	3	16	33	N	N	What "Liberal" Bias	I, personally, am sick of hearing the term \\"Liberal bias\\" being applied to the media.  Yes, the mainstream media is EXTREMELY biased (just look at any story on the middle-east), but to label this bias as \\"liberal\\", as this book attempts, is very inaccurate. Sometimes the media has an extremely strong right-wing slant, as when a story might effect the major media's other interests, e.g. G.E.'s defence contracts (try to catch the T.V. Funhouse cartoon on censorship that G.E. ironically forced Lorne Michaels to edit out of reruns of Saturday Night Live on the same topic). But neither is it fair to say that the media has a \\"facist\\" bias.  What the author fails to recognize is that mass media is a BUSINESS, and the bias is usually towards what sells, or what will avoid expensive lawsuits (even 100% true stories could cost a fortune in legal fees), and not towards any particular ideology.  The reason why left-wing pressure groups sometimes succeed in influencing media is because they can mobilize against the media, although it is more often the rich and powerful who have interests in the status quo who hold most sway.  See the movie \\"The Insider\\" for an example of such corporate pressure on CBS (it is hard to define the anti-smoking movement as either \\"liberal\\" or \\"conservative\\", although the censorship was definitely pro-business/anti-lawsuit).  Sure, this book appears to make valid points, although they are mostly anectdotal and confined to a relatively small percentage of the media, but beware anyone like this author who throws around overlysimplistic catchphrase terms like \\"liberal bias\\".  Read this book only as one person's experience of the media business and not a dissection of media itself (where are such issues as the concentration of 99% of the media into two or three conglomerates with interests conflicting with the truth?).  Read Noam Chomsky instead for a more sophisticated look at the media.	2002-02-08
US	44415913	R93OSZ00TN8XE	0878164065	528406957	Lost Girls, Book 1	Books	5	14	18	N	N	WARNING!!!	The bad news it that this book is part of a series that was not completed before the publisher went bankrupt. However, Top Shelf is planning on publishing (finally after over 10 years of waiting) the full series in three hardcover collections and will make a slipcase available as well to store them in. It is my belief that this volume here only constitutes part of one of the planned Top Shelf collections, so buying this older softcover version will not likely save you any money.  However, if the few chapters that have already been serialized in the now defunt Taboo anthology are any indication, this is some of Moore's best work.	2001-11-29
US	44415913	R2TQB68O1L7X25	0844222526	566712224	Das Max und Moritz Buch: The Original Verse and Drawings of Wilhelm Busch with Language Notes (Language - German) (German and English Edition)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Morality Plays	This book is part of a genre of cautionary tales that was big in Europe, especially Germany, around the turn of the century that had its roots in fairy tales (the REAL ones, told by old wives living in dark forests, not those that were collected and sanitized by Perault, Disney, et al.)  What distinguishes these stories from more traditional fairy tales is that punishment is not meted out by supernatural forces or angry Kings. Instead, the characters meet their just desserts as the result of some sort of irony.  Like most books in this genre, Max and Moritz begins by accounting the cruelties committed by a couple of sociopathic children in cute rhyming verse (adding to its effect) with accompanying illustrations, then towards the end shows how their actions backfire, leading to their own horrible demise.  Although these books were innocently meant to scare children into behaving, the ironic nature of the villians' demise actually suggests that they are not being punished for their actions, but are just victims of a cruel, chaotic world themselves.  If only they put more thought into their cruelty, they could have gotten away with it.  However, this is the reflection of an adult.  As a child, this book both fascinated and scared the (...) out of me, making it far more effective than any fairy tale.<br />This book is of particular interest because the characters of Max and Moritz are the clear inspirations behind the Katzenjammer Kids, a newspaper comic strip that was popular throughout much of the 20th century.  This book is considered a classic of this genre.	2001-11-06
US	44415913	R3NWSWX4JPNFU2	0970936303	658276685	Legal Action Comics	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Should be Better	This book was put together in order to fund the defence of cartoonist Danny Hellman whose freedom of speech is being attacked by the subject of a harmless satirical e-mail (cartoonist Ted Rall) via a $1.5 million libel suit.  Hellman created his satirical e-mail as a response to Ted Rall's accusations, published in the Villiage Voice, that Art Spiegleman is some sort of dictator who controls the cartooning industry in New York (apparently Rall reserves greater freedom of speech for himself).<br />Considering that the contributers include Doug Allen, Gary Leib, Sam Henderson, Johnny Ryan, Michael Kupperman (AKA P. Revess) etc. (see above for some more impressive names), this anthology should be a lot better than it actually is.  Unfortunately, much of the book is taken up by reprints from publications that are likely already owned by anyone interested in this book.  The Allen and Leib work is mostly reprinted from Idiotland, the Doucet is from Idiotland and Dirty Plotte, most of the Millionaire is from Dirty Stories Vol. II, etc.  Also, most of these reprints are not even the various artists' stronger works. As for the new stuff, when it isn't taking (often funny) stabs at Ted Rall, it tends to be lightweight and silly.  For example, James Kolchalka has a series of useless one page stories about a frog getting an erection while looking at various inanimate objects (like a phone), and many others are dumb stories about &quot;Dirty&quot; Danny Hellman playing (neither real nor realistic) pranks. Thus most of the strips by, e.g., Sam Henderson (normally a hillarious cartoonist) are just plain stupid.<br />There is enough standout material (e.g. Michael Kupperman's strips (although for some reaons they print one of his really short strips twice) and Johnny Ryan's) and it is for a good enough cause that it is definitely still worth getting, but most fans of its fantastic lineup will be disappointed.  Ultimately, this book reminds me of one of the Small Press Expo's annualanthologies: thick and worthwhile, but still very hit and miss.	2001-11-05
US	44415913	R3TQXG9F697ZJM	1561632929	359557016	Casa Howhard: Vol. 1	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Exquisite	This adult graphic novel by Baldazzini (Moebius only writes an introduction) is one of the best I've seen yet.  It is about the inhabitants of a condo who all happen to be sexually promiscuous shemales (the story itself sometimes implies that they were born this way, a physical impossibility, but it is a comic book).  The characters are all so gorgeous and feminine that even someone like myself who finds the reality unappealling will enjoy it.<br />Before reading this graphic novel, I was only familiar with Baldazzini's pinups which tend to be deceptively simple in style but extremely elegant and accomplished.  Many influences, mostly turn of the century (art nouveau, noir, etc.) can be seen, although it does sometimes also have a futuristic quality.  Some pinups in the style I'm used to fill out the last pages of this collection.  However, his artwork for the main story is a bit more cartoonish, but still has a great deal of elegance about it and is very beautiful.  The storyline is very simplistic (just a lot of sex scenes with little plot), but as Moebius notes in his introduction, all of Baldazzini's characters are filled with a wonderful sense of guiltless innocence.  As a result instead of the usual sense underlying most graphic novels that everything taking place is somehow dirty or illicit, Baldazzini's work has a sense of joyfulness and good clean fun to it (despite its extremely graphic nature) that makes it a pleasure to experience. This gets my highest recommendation.	2001-11-01
US	44415913	R2851L7TZ6MSIA	1561631531	885937661	Angel Claw	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Get It for the Art	Yes, the story by Jodorowsky, instead of being one of his better surreal works, is merely an attempt to connect together a bunch of black and white drawings by Moebius that are unconnected except in theme, and, as a result, it would have been better if the publishers instead used the pages devoted to the text to print more Moebius artwork, but if you are a fan of Moebius, this is a nice collection of some great artwork printed in large a size on good quality paper. It doesn't get 5 stars because of the wasted pages.	2001-10-26
US	44415913	R2NROY2CQ1XRY1	1563897520	895082929	I, Paparazzi	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very Entertaining	I, Paparazzi is a graphic novel that is relatively unique in format.  All of the artwork consists of photography that has been digitally altered (with added special effects, etc.).  While this is an interesting gimmick that is used here quite appropriately given the subject matter, it is not always perfectly executed.  For example, the colours can get garrish and the layouts are not always the most visually pleasing, but the effort that has been put into this title is worthy of admiration.<br />I, Paparazzi doesn't have the emotional depth of McGreal and Phillips' Veils (another highly recommended graphic novel in photographic format), nor does it have the beautiful lyrical paintings of Rebecca Guay which provided a nice break from the photographic art, but overall I did find this graphic novel to be more entertaining.  The story is about a paparazzi who winds up on an X-Files/Robert Anton Wilson inspired adventure that is a lot of fun to read.  To add more depth to the story, the author explains why the main character (and others) became paparazzi and defends the lifestyle pointing out, e.g., that it was a drunk driver who killed Princess Di and the fact that stars on their way up warmly welcome paparazzi until they reach the point where they, unlike most of society, no longer have to struggle to support themselves.  Being photographed by paparazzi after deliberately placing yourself in the public eye is a small price to pay for such comforts.<br />The characters are all quite interesting, the dialogue is enjoyable, etc., making this a great read.  Those who aren't familiar with McGreal et al's work might want to put off getting this graphic novel until it is available in a cheaper softcover, but I personally found the hardcover format worthwhile.  And given the rarity of photographic comics (at least in North America), it also makes an interesting conversation piece.	2001-10-11
US	44415913	RIB9XDIGH9Z1K	0380807904	606105498	Snake 'n' Bacon's Cartoon Cabaret	Books	5	4	5	N	N	You May Remove Excess Grease with Paper Towel	For those of you who, like me, discovered the work of P. Revess through his occassional appearances in the Zero Zero anthology: this is the same guy. In fact, a couple of the stories in this book were also published in Zero Zero (which were themselves reprinted from other hard to find publications). So if you enjoyed those stories, you'll love this whole collection which is equally surreal and laugh-out-loud funny. For those who haven't read his work in Zero Zero, the reviews below give good descriptions.	2001-08-28
US	44415913	RE4D443OKFXOD	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Vimes Rules!	Pratchett's Disc World series started out as a very silly (and very funny) fantasy series in which the plot did little more than give him a setting for his Pythonesque sense of humour.  However, as the series has progressed, his characters have become better developed and so have his storylines.  The Rincewind stories still tend to lean towards the earlier, sillier days, but in books like the Fifth Elephant the humour has become more subtle overall (although there is still silliness and laugh-out-loud humour), and has also started to become more satirical, making fun of society and its faults and making brilliant psychological observations.  The stories centering around Vimes, captain of the City Guard, have become the best series-within-a-series, especially the scenes in which he interacts with the Patrician, a character straight out of Machiavelli.  <br />As with most Vimes stories, there is a lot of genuine suspense and a great mystery tale although the focus in this book is more on political intrigue. The book is set in Uberwald, a land straight out of old horror movies set in Europe or like the black forests of fairy tales, filled with Vampires, Werewolves and Dwarves (with the usual Pratchett twists).  Not only that, but Uberwald is a land without laws where Vimes' position in the Ankh-Morpoork city guard is meaningless.  We also get to learn more about Angua's (the female werewolf's) family and history as well as see some developements in her relationship with Captain Carrot.<br />A brilliant and highly entertaining mix of fantasy, humour, satire and suspense, this book is highly recommended.	2001-08-17
US	44415913	R28TBU20634D37	1561632465	879430904	Girl: Body Heat: The Erection Collection	Books	1	6	15	N	N	There's fantasy, and then there's [bad].	I am a big fan of erotic artwork, and I love it when the artist allows his or her imagination to go wild.  Erotic comics don't have to be fully realistic, so artists can, e.g., bend the rules of gravity.  But come on!  Like most other guys, I like largely proportioned women, but why does Taylor feel the need to draw his women so that they look like they have had very poorly done breast implant surgery?  Actually the cover depicted above is the most realistic art I've ever seen by him, but look at the woman on the bottom right-hand side of the cover.  That's how his characters almost always look: completely stiff and made of hard plastic...	2001-08-16
US	44415913	R1V253HS4RB9EX	1561632317	879430904	Girl	Books	1	25	43	N	N	Do you want that in plastic?	Hey, I like large breasts and erotic artwork as much as the next guy, but Kevin Taylor's work is not particularly good or imaginative and all his women look like they should sue their plastic surgeons for doing such a LOUSY job on their breat implants!  Sure, drawing are fake, but do the characters have to also LOOK fake?	2001-08-16
US	44415913	R2XXBLG79U2M7X	1560973536	673771035	Housewives At Play	Books	5	18	18	N	N	FUN	Rebecca, in my opinion, is the greatest artist of the Sapphic arts around.  She is an excellent craftsman with a very realistic style, has a lot of imagination and a great sense of humour that adds instead of distracts from the erotic qualities of her art, and she is really into the subject matter as well (women at play while the men are away).  And her women are not just sexy, but also very beautiful and realistic (two qualities that elude most erotic cartoonists).<br />Those who like the second volume (More Housewives at Play) should definitely order this one when it gets back in stock.  The art on this first volume isn't quite as clean and crisp as the second volume's, but on the other hand the women in this volume are more varied and seem less like they have come from a cookie cutter (the only weakness with volume 2).  All the other great elements are here, including the humour that can still be enjoyed when the reader isn't feeling frisky.	2001-08-16
US	44415913	R1OPVVR27QM3OO	1891830244	606588308	The Soap Lady	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Haunting	This book is a pleasant surprise.  As the works collected in Marbles in My Underpants illustrate, Renee French is very capable of producing stories that wonderfully capture the surrealism of childhood.  However, unlike Marbles, this book is far more innocent and avoids her usual themes of sex and death, and manages to be delightful instead of depressing.  That is because in this case instead of writing about childhood for an adult audience she has created a book for children that can also be enjoyed by adults.<br />The Soap Lady is in the format of a hardcover children's book (large illustrations with minimal text) and contains some of her best artwork ever.  The blue and white illustrations have a haziness and surrealistic atmosphere to them although they are in her usual cartoony style, but here the art's cuttiness does not have a disturbing undertone to it.  The story itself is about a young boy who has the habit of getting himself muddy befriending a woman who is made entirely of soap.  They have lots of fun playing together, creating artwork on trees, etc., until they are discovered by some nasty children who report their friendship to the adults (who of course don't want their kids playing with a freak).  It has a bitter-sweet yet happy ending unlike most of French's works (which tend to be depressing).  Overall, the book is a wonderful examination of friendship and tolerance, and the joys of imagination, not to mention cleanliness, and will have you longing for the days when you felt free to go outside and just roll in the grass.	2001-08-14
US	44415913	RX6RLMP00R6PW	0867195126	32662902	The World of Jack Chick	Books	5	25	39	N	N	Amazing!	Jack T. Chick is a very strange and well-meaning but offensive man who for the past 50 years has been distributing &quot;religious&quot; tracts in the form of small comic books about how everyone is damned to go to Hell unless they have the exact same beliefs and lifestyle he has.  According to him, not even Catholics who supposedly believe in Jesus are safe from the Lake of Fire since in his opinion Catholicism is a false religion with the Pope conspiring to damn as much of the population as possible.  Ironically, I believe many (perhaps the majority) of Chick's biggest fans are those he numbers among &quot;the damned&quot;, namely people who are only interested in his works solely as humourous kitsch or sources of insight into a strange paranoid mind, not to mention those who collected his works because for a while they were the most violent and sexually exploitative comics around (not to mention some of the best drawn and written). But Chick doesn't care: in his mind, he has done his duty to attempt &quot;saving&quot; others by distributing his rants.<br />Fowler has, in this book, created the ultimate reference to Chick's works.  Included are guides to identifying and purchasing different printings of Chick tracts and comics, synopses of every tract Chick ever published, even outlines of the slight variations between different versions of each tract (e.g. changes in dialogue made to reflect changes in culture or Chick's increasingly open hostility to Catholics).  Also included is a paranoid History of the World According to Jack Chick pieced together from all of his tracts (including how the Catholic church supposedly created Islam as a means of destroying the Jews), interesting quotations, a list and synopses of parodies (by Dan Clowes, etc) and articles and books written about Chick, a biography of the secretive Chick pieced together from various sources, a history of his publishing company, etc.  And, although Fowler is rightfully critical of Chick and his perverse world view, he is balanced, noting, for example, that Chick also has his good moments, e.g., his enlightened attitude towards racial minorities.<br />Also included in the edition I own was an envelope containing 5 actual Chick tracts, including one that is horrifyingly homophobic, one that is both extremely violent and moving (illustrating both how exploitative his comics actually are and the very real concern he could show for the world's victims), and a couple outlining his strange philosophy of salvation (i.e., it doesn't matter how much good or bad you do during your life: as long as you &quot;accept Jesus as your saviour&quot; during the last nanosecond of your life (so long as it is not through a &quot;false religion&quot; like Catholicism or Mormonism) you will be accepted into Heaven instead of cast into the Lake of Fire).  Also included is the Zulu version of one of the last two tracts mentioned above illustrating how some foreign editions are tailored towards the culture they are targeting as well as Chick's enlightened attitude towards minorities (e.g., portraying angels as black).  But be warned: apparently the availability of these bonus tracts is on a first come first serve basis and you won't receive any of the 5 when the publisher runs out of its own supply (however, they can be obtained cheaply directly from Chick's company).<br />This book is highly recommended to any Chick fan, new or old, who doesn't take his work seriously (I'd be sad to find anyone who does).  Those who already own Dan Raeburn's issue of The Imp focusing on Chick should also get this book, which is more accurate and detailed and focuses more on the works instead of on speculatively analyzing Chick's psyche.	2001-08-13
US	44415913	R1YAXSTJGNQ3FD	1560974168	494245069	Underworld Vol. 4: Duh! (v. 4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hillarious	This is a collection of comic strips created for underground papers by Kaz.  Besides having a great, dark counter-culture sort of sense of humour, Kaz, who formerly did lots of work for Art Spiegleman's Raw magazine, is a master draughtsman, putting more imagination into gag strips than most artists put in their most serious works.  His influences are obvious, especially Bushmiller's Nancy and Seger's Popeye, but he also brings his own unique, surreal vision to his work.<br />Kaz's world of urban decay is filled with criminals, con-artists and freaks who, while often dirty and despicable, are also quite cute.  Kind of like a cross between Lenny Bruce and the Smurfs.  Most of the humour is quite escapist, but there are a few wry, biting comments on American culture that manage to avoid being preachy.  Kaz's Underworld is the second best humour strip I've read in years (Dry Shave being the best).	2001-07-18
US	44415913	RXONH8C6I9GY6	0385265204	485017291	Cartoon History of the Universe Volumes 1-7	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun and Educational	This volume of world history in comic book form is priceless! The artwork is not the greatest, but it is certainly competent and accomplishes its job.  But what makes this book worthwhile is its alternative take on history.  Instead of focusing on stories about famous conquerors (although they are not ignored), it is about what history must have been like for the average person, all with a rather biting, cynical sense of humour.  For example, it shows WHY Socrates was hated so much (because, like such 1960s gurus as Timothy Leary he helped turn young people into rebellious thinkers who questioned the sacredly held opinions of their parents, whether or not Socrates did so intentionally).  Gonick turns historic figures into living, breathing people instead of mere acts or ideas.<br />The Cartoon History doesn't quite reach the level of social criticism of A People's History of the United States, nor will it tear down your current understanding of historic events, but it still manages to be very iconoclastic merely by pointing out the silliness of humans throughout history (illustrating how little we've changed!) and through its more 'common person's' perspective.	2001-06-26
US	44415913	RU3JG05QMNF00	1560973218	157936136	Crumple: The Status of Knuckle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Men Are Such Pigs!	In Dave Cooper's latest graphic novel (collected from Zero Zero where it was serialized), the lead character, Crumple, seems to be the only decent male left in the world.  Sure, he is awkward around women thanks to the interaction of his shyness and sexual drive, but he is a nice guy who treats women as equals.  Unfortunately his more confident male friend (as well as the few other males in the story) are complete and utter pigs.  As it turns out, however, the women have the upper hand because their sexuality gives them power over man.<br />This is the background for Cooper's satirical and surreal look at the Battle of the Sexes and what happens when males are rendered useless thanks to a bizarre alien intervention.  Of course, neither sex gets off too easily.  Only the most intolerant of man-haters would consider the ultimate fate of male-kind tolerable despite how disgusting some of the male characters are. And the male reader should ask himself why the females would be willing to resort to such an outcome.  This graphic novel should have both males and females questioning their unconscious attitudes towards the opposite sex. Sure many of the characters are stereotypes of both males and females, but only to raise the point that either extreme of Male Chauvanism and Capital F Feminism is intolerable. Cooper's deceptively cartoony style is very effective in adding to the mood of this nightmare.	2001-06-26
US	44415913	R2HDOB16CS6JXM	1563891921	709571921	Enigma	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Mind Twisting	It is impossible to really review this book's plot very well without giving away surprises, but the surface plot is about a man encountering characters straight out of the pages of his favourite, although shortlived, comic book series he read in the early 1970s while growing up called &quot;Enigma&quot;.  The comic book itself was the very surreal creation of a comic artist who was clearly the product of the late 1960s counter-culture.  The first villian to appear is called &quot;The Truth&quot;, and his power consists of driving people insane by telling them some hidden truth (geared towards each individual).  Other villians include a group of men dressed up as clowns who break into peoples' homes and drive people into committing suicide through some sort of reverse feng-shui (they rearrange their victim's furniture in such a manner to create a suicidal mind-state).  The hero of the series teams up with the comic book's creator, who has an unwanted cult following (literally) now that his creations are coming to life, and the two of them also track down the Enigma to learn his secret.<br />The whole series deals with such concepts as &quot;reality&quot; and responsibility and other issues I can't really give away without ruining part of the plot.  As one reviewer's title notes, it could be described as post-modern existentialism.  This is a brilliantly written, beautifully drawn mind-expanding piece of work.	2001-06-19
US	44415913	R19G61XEHRVB4E	1563892545	585387350	The Big Book of the Unexplained (Factoid Books)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Not Meant to Win Over People in Denial	This book is usually advertised as a companion to the Big Book of Conspiracies. Although both are written by Doug Moench, this is not really true. There IS some crossover (for example the BBOC deals with some supposed coverups of UFOs, and UFOs are featured prominently in this book), but only superficially.<BR>As noted by one harsh reviewer below, this book does not go very far into presenting evidence. However, I know that many of the stories covered in this book are actually just as well-documented as most historical facts having read about them elsewhere (in fact, when I lived in Waterloo, Ontario, I lived down the block from the owner of the famous crystal skull depicted in one of these stories). And if you require more proof, there is an extensive bibliography. What Doug Moench does is use his limited space (the comic book format is not very good for presenting vast reams of evidence) to give a nice overall picture of paranormal mysteries. He even manages to point out various patterns, connecting together incidents usually only covered in isolation. And this is an important contribution, after all by now people who actually pay attention to evidence should have reached the point where they are more interested in understanding the phenonmena described instead of just trying to justify their beliefs. Of course, some of the stories herein are based merely on testimony given by witnesses, but eyewitness testimony is considered the strongest form of evidence by the courts and is still enough to get people sentenced to jail for life in this country (meanwhile fingerprints are only circumstantial). What matters is the credibility of the witnesses, how many unconnected individuals corroborate each other, and whether or not there is an ulterior motive for such testimony.  Besides it would be ridiculous to reject all data on the basis of a few charlatans (after all we still believe in science depsite apparent hoaxes like cold fusion).  And for every redneck there is still the occassional Jimmy Carter and Neil Armstrong who have also reported witnessing UFOs. If all people could be so readily dismissed for what they say or write on other subjects, no field of knowledge (history, science, etc.) could exist! But I prefer to be amongst the camp of people who, e.g., do not have to personally build and explode atom bombs or travel back in time 56 years to Japan to believe that the bombing of Hiroshima occured (the photographs, consistent testimony, etc., is enough for me).  This book does (and it admits so) go out on the limb occassionally, but it does also point out some incontrovertible facts that skeptics just choose to ignore.  But even if you lean more towards skepticism, this is a highly entertaining and well-illustrated book that is far more credible than the Warren Commission or most newspaper coverage of the Middle-East.	2001-06-15
US	44415913	R3KSFMUQC03VY9	1563892189	34672546	The Big Book of Freaks (Factoid Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Worth the Price of Admission	Written by repected cartoonist, Gahan Wilson (appropriately so since he is a direct descendant of P.T. Barnum), this is a fascinating look at the history of freaks in real life and in the media and treats the subject with a great deal of reverence and respect.  Wilson goes beyond merely presenting the histories of various famous freaks, but also examines why we are so fascinated by them and laments the fact that with advances in genetics they may be a dying breed (with the exception of self-made freaks like those in the Jim Rose Circus).  <br />Wilson begins with the historical roots of the sideshow, with the wild speculations about possible creatures that might exist in the days when much of the world was unexplored, to the fake freaks created for medieval carnivals and self-mutilated beggars, to the modern circus and portrayals in movies such as Tod Browning's &quot;Freaks&quot;.  In addition to such articles on specific themes are the histories of particular individuals ranging from the famous (the Elephant Man) to the not-so-famous (a &quot;Lobster Man&quot; who committed a murder in a Florida town composed almost entirely of retired circus freaks).  The stories range from the heartwarming to the heartbreaking, the humourous to the serious, and include romance and adventure, but all of them treat the unusual individuals who are their subjects as human beings, with all the same potentials as well as the character flaws of any person, and avoids being exploitative.  My personal favourite is the article drawn by Ivan Brunetti illustrating how ALL human beings are freakish and are constantly undergoing strange transformations.  <br />The accompanying illustrations are also superb.  This is definitely one of the best in the Big Books series.	2001-06-15
US	44415913	R3SVASU9MJJTU5	0060286245	926515352	Little Lit: Folklore and Fairy Tale Funnies	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Fun for All Ages	Good writing and good illustration always have universal appeal. Unfortunately this is something that has been forgotten in the comic book industry lately.  It used to be that you could find comics that were fun reading for people of all ages, but that is a rarity these days in which comics are largely marketed to either an adult audience or to adolescent males who equate being &quot;adult&quot; with reading about violence and aggression and anatomically incorrect women in tights.  This book (ironically labelled &quot;Comics aren't just for adults anymore&quot; in an echo of DC Comic's mid-1980s &quot;Comics aren't just for kids&quot; ad campaign) is a nice reminder of the way things used to be.<br />All the stories are wonderfully written and illustrated.  The &quot;Jack (and his Mother) and the Beanstalk&quot; would have been better if it diverged less from the traditional in my opinion, but &quot;The Princess and the Pea&quot;, which takes hillarious stabs at the original story while being beautifully illustrated in a traditionally romantic style, is effective at poking fun at itself.  Most of the stories have obvious morals and can just be taken at their face value, and therefore can't be read on a different level by adults, but they are still enjoyable.  The one exception to this is Chris Ware's wonderful original (though depressing) fairy tale and his board game (the instructions are priceless!) which utilizes his usual sardonic and cynical sense of humour very effectively, and I agree with the reviewer below that Charles Burns' Bosch inspired double-page spread might be a little disturbing to adults, but seen through innocent eyes I believe kids will find it more humourous.	2001-06-14
US	44415913	RUDDNDZHNIEZK	0916397408	92920132	The Ghastly Ones & Other Fiendish Frolics	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Poetic Injustice	Out of all of Sala's works I have read so far, this is the most clearly inspired by Edward Gorey.  Although Sala's art has a style all its own, this book copies the usual Gorey format with a series of illustrations (one on each double-page spread) accompanied by rhyming text telling short, humourous nasty stories (the same sort of tongue-in-cheek horror fun for all ages of a Vincent Price movie).  I personally prefer Sala's short stories aimed at an older audience in traditional comic book format, but this book is still a howl.<br />In this collection are four stories:<br />&quot;The Ghastly Ones&quot; is about a bragging master detective detailing the modus operandi of a rogues gallery of fiends he has locked to the lascivious delight of a boy obsessed with crime.  &quot;The Morbid Musings of Malcolm de Mulch&quot; is about a young man obsessively contemplating the many ways he might unfortunately meet an untimely demise.  &quot;The Skulkers&quot; is a series of portraits of various fiends not unlike the first story, but the mini-poems are each told from the fiends' own points of view.  Lastly &quot;Beware, Beware&quot; is about an old woman warning her young grandson that they best keep themsleves locked indoors because of all the dangers that face them in the city at night.  All but &quot;The Skulkers&quot; (which isn't really a story) has a twisted twist ending.<br />My one complaint is that it takes only minutes to read through the whole book, but it is still one that will be treasured by fans of Sala or dark humour, and I'm sure most young readers would get perverse delight from it as well.  This is the type of fun book that encouraged me to read books when I was young because it is so &quot;cool&quot;.	2001-06-13
US	44415913	R1O45EGVWBO0KQ	0816039798	814899696	The Encyclopedia of Serial Killers	Books	5	8	8	N	N	RETRACTION	I must apologize to the author of this book.  When this book popped up on my recommendations list I mistook it for another book with the exact same title and an extremely similar cover I had recently encountered.  However, last night to my extreme embarrassment, I discovered my mistake.  This book does indeed report accurate and up-to-date information on David Berkowitz, and although the articles on each person/subject is necessarily short for the book to be comprehensive without being unwieldly large, the summaries are quite good for their length. I still recommend buying Maury Terry for a more complete overview of Son of Sam (or other books with greater focus on various persons), but this book is still a good introduction. <br />It is unfortunate that I mistook this book for another that is deceptively simlar but of far lower quality.	2001-06-08
US	44415913	RWJX629JBXEVQ	0922915393	472263585	The Octopus: The Secret Government and Death of Danny Casolaro	Books	5	41	44	N	N	The Murder of a Hero	Danny Casolaro was a relatively wealthy individual who decided he wanted to become a writer.  He already had a few articles published in various magazines when he first learned about the PROMIS software.  Basically, PROMIS is a database program with amazing flexibility and statistical abilities and can also be used to predict future trends, submarine locations, etc.  This software was developed by private individuals with some help in funding by the U.S. Department of Justice.  However, the government decided to [take] the program instead of paying for it and began to market it as their own.  This information is widely known and well-accepted and much documentation of this exists (including a successful lawsuit by the software developers that was later overturned on the flimsiest of grounds through the interference of the powers that be). However, when Casolaro set out to write an article about the robbery of the PROMIS program by the government, potentially to sell it to a computer magazine, the deeper he dug, the more sinister things became.<br />First of all, he learned that the DOJ had a backdoor added into the program so that the U.S. could access the files of whoever they sold the PROMIS program to, including the governments of Israel and Canada.  This led to further revelations and meetings with various informants that further revealed a complex web of deceit leading down some surprising avenues.  Casolaro now changed his plans to writing a novel, perhaps even presenting it as fiction in order to avoid scaring off publishers.  But before this happened, Casolaro was found dead from what was an obviously staged suicide and many of his notes disappeared.<br />This very well documented book (that also verifies and is verfied by information published elsewhere) chronicles Casolaro's story, citing many excellent sources, including court records and affidavits.  It also attempts to recover and recount some of the information about the conspiracy Casolaro began to call \\"the Octopus\\" because of its many, long-reaching tendrils.  While it is not always clear Casolaro was on the right track (Casolaro himself often took note of what information seemed manufactured to mislead and discredit him), it is clear he was onto something big given his subsequent murder and its sloppy coverup.<br />Casolaro might have led a comfortable life as a mediocre writer publishing the occassional article, but because of his sense of justice and the need he felt to uncover the truth, he was ruthlessly murdered.  This book is a wonderful epitaph to two courageous men (including co-author Keith who mysteriously died from knee surgery).	2001-06-04
US	44415913	R37NENR6PQ13RQ	1569714932	299306070	Grendel: Black, White, and Red	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Great, but Who Cares?	This is a collection of short stories about Hunter Rose, the first character in Matt Wagner's Grendel mythos to have been possessed by the dark force known as Grendel.  Each of the short stories are beautifully illustrated in diverse styles by such talented artists as Teddy Kristiansen, Tim Bradstreet, Mike Allred, Matt Wager, etc. in a wonderfully clever black, white and red colour scheme.  The black and white helps bring out the noir mood of the stories (and is well suited Grendel's black and white costume), while the red highlights such items as the blood and roses closely associated with Hunter Rose and Grendel.  This technique is not fully innovative (see Miller's Sin City series and some arthouse movies), but is well done here.  The stories are all by Matt Wagner and are, of course, well written. Unfortunately, some aspects of the stories rob them of their full power.<br />First of all, if you are nonfan and not familiar with Grendel/Hunter Rose, those stories whose purpose is mainly to flesh out his history are not very meaningful.  You get a glimpse at his story, but that's it.  Secondly, if you are a fan familiar with the characters, the fact that they were only around for a extremely brief, although brilliant run and are now a long dead and forgotten part of the mythos in more recent stories also renders the increased background of Hunter Rose less meaningful (and no new insight into the Grendel entity itself is offered).  It is not unlike the black character in Kubrick's version of the Shining: sure, he was interesting in the beginning, but there was no point bringing him back into the story just to get killed by an axe.  Mayber Wagner will prove me wrong when he finally takes back control of the series.<br />Fortunately, I believe it is still possible for readers, even casual ones, to get caught up in the short stories whose focus are more upon nonrecurring characters (thus we get their complete story).  However, while those stories are effective examples of noir literature, they are all too brief for the reader to get as tied up with the characters as one would wish and the supernatural/superhero aspects of these stories also take away from their effectiveness.<br />Matt Wagner covered noir territory far more effectively in his Sandman Mystery Theatre series.  Still, this collection is a rather handsome volume.	2001-05-30
US	44415913	R1NQSTL2SOKEWE	1563896974	628025598	Swamp Thing VOL 03: The Curse	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Best of Swamp Thing	This collection reprints the best issues of Swamp Thing.  For those not at all familier with the character, it is an excellently written and drawn comic about a good swamp monster battling evil (and is much better than that description makes it sound).<br />Notable in this third volume of the series, which reprints the beginning of the &quot;American Gothic&quot; story arc, is Moore's greater use of social critique, elevating these stories above mere entertaining, well-written horror stories.  By combining fantastic horrors to such real-life horrors as racism and sexism, these stories are far more effective than any in the earlier collections at terrifying the reader.<br />In &quot;American Gothic&quot;, Swamp Thing is sent scurrying to different parts of the U.S. by a manipulative figure (Jon Constantine) to battle all of the classic horror figures (vampires, werewolves, zombies, etc.), but each are handled in an absolutely brilliantly unique and new manner.  For example, there is a whole town of vampires living underwater, completely shielded from the sun, in the process of, for the first time, living communally and cooperating to breed a second generation of vampires that are more powerful and horrific (the dedication of the vampires to family is contrasted by the dysfunctional families of the normal humans).  The title story, &quot;The Curse&quot;, is a unique Werewolf story, tying in the monthly transformation according to the phases of the moon to the menstrual cycle.  The Curse was controversial due to its misinterpretation by illiterate readers as being a sexist comment on PMS when in reality it is an extremely feminist story condemning society for its male-driven fear and shunning of the feminine, and the subjugation of women into sexual objects or housewives.<br />The American Gothic story arc does not conclude in this issue (although the individual stories can be enjoyed on their own) so hopefully a volume 4 will follow.  <br />By this point, Moore was also using word games in his text more frequently (read carefully) adding an extra level of enjoyment.  This collection also contains the first appearance of Jon Constantine, and it is a period I miss. Here Constantine is a totally mysterious, manipulative character whose only real power is his mysteriously obtained knowledge and who always adds an element of dark humour (he is still a great character, but far less mysterious, and he now has magical skills, the extent of which appear to change from appearance to appearance).<br />This collection represents, if not Moore's best, then the best of Swamp Thing.	2001-05-28
US	44415913	R8N0FCGJ28AC2	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	5	72	86	N	N	A Must Read	This book is an excellent primer for teaching readers or viewers of any media the tools of critical thinking and is filled with contributions by such distinguished writers as Noam Chomsky and Richard Metzger.  <br />Although the book is filled with much interesting factual data, Russ Kick (the editor) in his introduction notes that it is much easier to tear down the sacred cows of society than it is to replace them with the absolute truth.  For example, Howard Bloom in his second article falls into the very same trap regarding media reporting that he is trying to warn people against with a rather biased, misleading and one-sided presentation of the situation in the Middle-East.  Despite the fact that what Bloom does choose to convey is truthful, what he omits is damning, and he is in complete error in suggesting that the overall perception created of Arabs by the media is that of the victim when in reality, with the exception of works by such writers as Chomsky and Fisk that have been the subject of negative campaigns, Arabs have been represented throughout media history as terrorists.  And sometimes the authors admittedly only raise questions about beliefs without really disputing them (as in the article Is Jesus A Myth? which fails to really refute evidence of the historical figure).  However, the vast majority of this book is well researched and supported, and serves a useful purpose even when it is only raising questions instead of presenting answers by fighting against the supression of truth.  Thus while the article on evolution does not present a new and more accurate theory, it does show scientists as the frauds they are in supressing findings that raise questions about our current understanding of evolution instead of trying to reconcile the apparently harmful data in order to come up with a better understanding of the process as per proper scientific method.<br />The first article, by Howard Bloom, is an excellent summary of social psychology studies regarding the forces of conformity and how they can blind people from even obvious, indisputable truths (I got to personally witness recreations of some of these experiments as a psychology student). The second section of articles then shows how the media can and does, both deliberately (through purposeful disinformation) and through error (usually from laziness, incomplete reporting or lack of knowledge by the reporter on the subject matter), misreport the truth. One example is the FBI citing a humour article warning of a number of made-up computer viruses (e.g. the Clinton virus, which destroys itself when it can't decide which of two files to infect) as if it were about real viruses, and said FBI report then being used as source material in newspaper and university articles exaggerating the threat of computer viruses, and by computer security companies with a financial interest in exaggerating the problem.<br />Following this series of articles illustrating how common misconceptions can arise both innocently and more insidiously, are chapters dealing with more specific instances of disinformation and misinformation and attacks on common misconceptions.<br />This is one of the best books of this nature I have ever read.  Must reading.	2001-05-28
US	44415913	RNO2T4J6TTSQD	1563893606	365058099	The Big Book of Martyrs (Factoid Books)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Informative	It is my experience that this is the least popular of the Big Book series, usually because it treats its subject matter with a more serious tone than all the other books.  However, being an information junkie who also appreciates good art, I feel that this book does a good job of delivering on both.<br />While I have never been accused of being the best of Christians, it is my opinion that this subject matter deserves to be treated seriously and respectfully given that it often involves telling the stories of people standing up for their message of love and peace at the threat of violence (a lesson less tolerant Christians can learn from).<br />Many of the saints should not be subject to criticism, regardless of the imperfect record of the Catholic church.  That being said, not everyone who has been granted sainthood is really a saint.  For example, some were mere barbarians respected by the Catholic church for their zeal in slaughtering innocent people of different faiths. But this book, while being respectful of the title of saint, does not cower from pointing out these occassional pieces of hypocrisy.  Also included in this book is a chapter dealing with saints who were purely fictional (and are even recognized as such by the Catholic church) including the still popular St. Christopher (of the medallion fame), but I'd be surpised at anyone taking this as an attack on their faith.<br />Since this book is about the history of saints and the process (and politics) of cannonization, it is factual regardless of one's personal faith or lack thereof, but I am sure it appeals to Christians the most.  But the interesting stories and artwork are worthwhile for anyone to experience, and, yes, even the nonreligious can find inspiration in tales of people standing up for their beliefs in the face of persecution, including those who have been targeted by the Catholic church.	2001-05-28
US	44415913	R1V86VIEOO68KQ	1560600322	46513193	Words Without Pictures	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hunt This Baby Down!	Words Without Pictures is a nicely designed paperback collection of prose stories and poems written by people known primarily for writing or drawing comic books.  With the exception of the introduction (by Matt Feazell of &quot;Zot in Dimension 10 1/2&quot; fame) which reverses the concept of the book by being pictures without words, and spot illustrations of the authors by John Bolton, there are no drawings.<br />The stories range from good to excellent.  With the exception of Neil Gaiman's infamous story about V.D. which has been reprinted several times, including in his colleciton Angels and Visitations, none of the stories have been reprinted to my knowledge.<br />All the stories are by people who were at the vanguard of adult comic books at the end of the 80's.  Included are stories by Steve Bissette (graphic horror, of course), Jon J. Muth (poetic, of course), Ann Nocenti, etc.  The best and longest story, and one that is worth the price of admission all on its own, is by Alan Moore.  It is a vey strange and exotic story about a young woman in the orient undergoing a process that will put her more deeply in touch with her unconscious mind in order to turn her into a sort of Shaman.  This story should appeal to fans of Moore's Promethea.<br />This book, which serves as an illustration that some in the comic book industry deserve as much acclaim as any other in the field of literature, will be treasured forever and make your friends jealous.  It is worth the trouble hunting it down.	2001-05-28
US	44415913	R1JD68C8GN1U7R	0966891627	733580193	Thanks For The Memories ... The Truth Has Set Me Free!  The Memoirs of Bob Hope's and Henry Kissinger's Mind-Controlled Slave	Books	1	69	141	N	N	Disinformation, Comedy or Tragedy?	I don't know what to make out of this book.  It is either: 1) deliberate disinformation written by a government agent designed to undermine serious attempts by people like Alex Constantine to expose CIA experiments (including their publically admitted MK-Ultra program) by creating the impression that proponents of such theories are insane, 2) written a woman who is truly a victim of such a program BUT who has been set up to create a book full of easily discreditable fantasy in a disservice to herself and others like her, or 3) a deliberate piece of satire. The book has been clearly marketed as fact, so I lean towards scenario #1 or 2 as the most likely origin of the book.<br />The possibility that this book falls under scenario 1 or 2 prevents me from reviewing it as a comedic satire. And given the possiblity of scenario #3, I am reluctant to ridicule the author who may, indeed, be a victim.<br />Even if it is disinformation (deliberate or not), this book says something interesting about the agencies behind it and the gullible readers who choose to believe this drivel. Imagine, what is basically little more than a hardcore porn novel filled with little else than graphic scenes of rape and humiliation (involving orgies with celebrities and politicians) written in the style of a deliberately erotic novel being embraced by the self-same Christian soldiers who campaign tirelessly against all pornography, including that of a less unhealthy and consensual nature!  Because that is what this book is, however you interpret its origins: one hard-core sex scene following another depecting an (oft-times) underaged girl being forced into sex acts against her will.  It is as if some readers are willing to deceive themselves into believing the utterly ridiculous (and, yes, almost comedic) events depicted in the novel because it is the only means by which they can justify buying this pornography.  (&quot;We're not buying it for the sex, we're buying it because it illustrates an American Tragedy!&quot;)  What nonsense!!  If the readers want to embrace someone for crusading against thought control by the government, then they should be embracing the Alex Constantines of the world.<br />I do not like any of the politicians or celebrities slandered by this book (there are far more well-documented facts that may be used to condemn or criticize each of them), so I enjoy seeing them slagged on some level.  But this is not the way.<br />This book, however you look at it, is nothing more than disgusting exploitation.merican Tragedy!&quot;)  What nonsense!!  If the readers want to embrace someone for crusading against thought control by the government, then they should be embracing the Alex Constantines of the world.<br />I do not like any of the politicians or celebrities slandered by this book (there are far more well-documented facts that may be used to condemn or criticize each of them), so I enjoy seeing them slagged on some level.  But this is not the way.<br />This book, however you look at it, is nothing more than disgusting exploitation.	2001-05-28
US	44415913	R2ISLSS25RH1I	0943151031	993167326	Lenore, Vol. 1: Noogies (Issues 1-4) (v. 1)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Ewwww Cute!	A lot of gothic humour comics have been flooding the market recently, but Lenore is one of the best.  Lenore is basically about a dead little girl who neither ages nor matures and is filled with oodles of innocent curiousity about the world around her. This often leads her to do gross things (she has had a long line of dead pet cats), and she is very amoral in her childlike innocence, but she is so damn cute you just can't help but forgive her for the sick things she does. Seeing her throw a tea party and invite all the nearby walking-dead or doing a happy little dance at a funeral will leave your mind conflicted over whether you should retch or sigh. And unlike most recent goth comics, this one doesn't take itself at all seriously.  Not great art or literature (Gorey and Sala still reign supreme at dark humour comics), but a fun little diversion.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	R220L7UEJ2YRBO	0943151090	76996071	Something At The Window Is Scratching	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Not Lenore	This book is filled with cute little horror-edged original poems and illustrations by the creator of the Lenore comic book. To give you an idea, the poems are along the line of the old song about the Old Woman Who Swallowed a Fly most people got to sing in Kindergarten. I definitely had fun reading it, but unlike Lenore there were no laugh-out-loud moments. I would have prefered it if the poems were more profusely illustrated in comic-book style instead of just containing one or two accompanying drawings encompassing the whole narrative of each poem. For example, imagine only getting a picture of the Old Woman swallowing the fly, but not the pay-off of her exploding after swallowing a horse. Dirge's ability to draw illustrations that are equally gross, cute and funny is not used to full effect here. Dirge is far more funny when he is writing his character Lenore instead of trying to produce third-rate Edward Gorey.  Buy Lenore instead or stick to artists like Gorey.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	RHOZVK43MD0H8	0941613658	85799680	Alan Moore's Songbook	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sing With Alan	This isn't really a songbook since there are no musical notations.  What it is is a collection of song lyrics from Moore's music (he actually heads an obscure band in England I've never had the fortune or misfortune to hear) accompanied by illustrations that I believe are all collected from issues of the now defunct Negative Burn anthology series.  As poetry, its fine (not great) and covers all of Moore's usual territory (e.g. one or two about Victorian serial killers).<br />The accompanying illustrations range widely in quality.  Some artists (e.g. Art Adams) are fine drawing comics, but aren't the greatest as black and white text illustrators.  Others are just plain mediocre.  One of the most interesting contributions is by Neil Gaiman (didn't know he could draw that well until I saw this book) that is, not surprisingly, abstract.<br />Basically, if you are not familiar with any of the above names, this is not likely for you.  But if you are a fan, this is an interesting little collectible curiosity.  Not great, but obscure and fun to shove in the face of other Alan Moore collectors in order to watch them turn green with envy.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	RSSQI0QAT06EV	0930289552	93409299	Black Orchid	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good Beginning	Black Orchid was first released at approximately the same time as Sandman #1 and was the second major work by both Gaiman and McKean after Violent Cases.  As a result, it was the North American audience's first real exposure to their work.  This made reading it the first time especially interesting, not knowing what to expect from the two creators, but with their current greater familiarity, the experience of reading Black Orchid is now less exciting.  Also, since they did not have their reputations yet, a lot of big-name characters such as Batman and Swamp Thing make distracting cameo appearances for the obvious reason of attracting readers when they would have been better left out.<br />McKean's artwork in this book goes for more of a photorealistic style that was more distinctive from Bill Sienkiewicz's work than Violent Cases, but is far less interesting than McKean's more recent and more surreal work, and with the exception of a few photographs is less multimedia and more straight painting.  Furthermore, the scenes taking place in the city are largely black, white and gray, and not until the action moves to the jungle do you get brilliant flashes of colour.  This was done purposely for dramatic effect, but also makes much of the art less interesting than usual.  McKean himself said he was glad when he started painting the jungle scenes because he was getting utterly bored painting the rest.<br />Gaiman's story itself presents an interesting contrast between modern, patriachal, business-driven society with the beauty and serenity of the natural world.  The plot itself is typical of Gaiman's writing, with a great deal of build up leading the reader to expect some great, violent confrontation only to result in an almost anticlimatic ending in which clearer heads prevail and violence is largely avoided.  Here this pattern works especially well to contrast the testosterone-driven action of operatives under the employ of Lex Luthor trying to capture Black Orchid forscientific dissection, including her abusive lover from her previous life, giving chase and the feminine manner in which Black Orchid resolves the situation by avoiding conflict. This story is much quieter, more idylic than most of Gaiman's more famous work, in that it doesn't confront you with obscure references and the fantastic on every page.  That being said, it is not particularly thought-provoking or entertaining, but it is beautiful enough to earn a good rating.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	RTBKNQ6DWDG0K	0930289560	874348021	Batman: Arkham Asylum	Books	5	103	114	N	N	Not a Superhero Comic	I am sure I am going to confuse a lot of Batman fans with this review and I expect a lot will rate this review as not useful, but this book is NOT a superhero comic, and it would do it a disservice to review it as such.  It is instead a psychological theory presented as a superhero comic that will appeal more to fans of Eraserhead than to fans of Batman.  The first thing to note about this book is that Batman is not mentioned in the title for a reason.  Although Batman is in the book and Arkham Asylum is where all of his criminally insane adversaries are kept locked up, this is not a book about Batman engaging in physical battles. Batman only serves, on the one hand, as the eyes and ears of the reader so that we can explore Arkham in all its details, and on the other, as a representation of the conscious mind.<br />Basically, Arkham serves as a Jungian metaphor for the mind, and all of its inmates represent the hidden aspects of the unconscious, with the Joker representing (in my opinion) the Trickster archetype whose role is to challenge and tear down the conscious mind, often with humour, and sometimes at the risk of destroying it.  Batman himself serves to represent the conscious facade (i.e. those parts of one's personality people present to the external world while trying to suppress the unconscious) trying to keep the inmates (the unconscious) locked behind walls. Therefore Batman, with his mask, trying to keep the inmates in the Asylum is the perfect metaphor for Jungian psychology.<br />However, as the artist, McKean, has pointed out in interviews, Batman himself is not the picture of rationality, dressing up like a bat to fight crime, just as Jung points out the Facade is not a totally sane representation of the Self.  Therefore, as Batman (the conscious) continues to try to fight back against the inmates (the unconscious), cracks begin to show in his character.   According to Jungian theory, the truly sane person can face their unconscious and accept it aspart of their personality instead of suppressing it and mistaking their public facade as their true identity.  The Joker basically sums up Jungian theory by noting that it is the people outside (like Batman, presenting a false public persona) who are the real inmates.<br />As usual, McKean's multimedia art is spectacular, and noone is better at representing imagery straight out of dreams and the unconscious than he.  Morrison's writing is less emotionally involving than his other works like the Mystery Play, reading more like an intellectual exercise, but McKean's art helps make up for the lack of the script's impact.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	R2LW9IGB9E86K6	1563897474	492757294	The Quotable Sandman: Memorable Lines from the Acclaimed Series	Books	1	32	45	N	N	A Waste	The Sandman series if filled with wonderful quotations.  However, owning the whole series I felt there was no point in getting this book for the quotations.  Instead I bought it for its self-described impressive lineup of artists.  Mistake.<br />Out of the approximately 95 pieces of art, many of them were blow-ups of panels from the comic book.  While these panels were drawn by good artists, they seem out of place reproduced here outside of the context of the full page of artwork of which they were originally part.  The rest of the artwork, although excellent, consists mainly of REPRINTS of art that has appeared in the various Sandman-themed galleries, but cropped to a smaller size and printed on cheaper paper (thick, unglossy and somewhat rough like construction paper).  There is one drawing by Gaiman (not bad, but not great) which I believe is published for the first time here.  There were maybe only 3 other pieces which I believe came from some of the Sandman trading cards that I vaguely recognize but don't already own.  Basically all the artwork consists of portraits of characters from the series, vs. representations of dreamscapes, and so I assume they will be less interesting to non-Sandman fans (though I doubt any will ever hear of this book).<br />As for the quotations: they are mostly as wonderful as I remember them. But that's the problem.  I remember them.  And many of them are less interesting outside of the context of the story.  And many of them are only interesting because they remind you of a particular story and aren't all that impressive on their own.<br />This book may still be of interest to those who do not own the various Sandman gallery comics for its indeed excellent artwork, but only then.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	R2WC9X6MVL60CR	1560600314	46513193	Words Without Pictures	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Track This Down!	Now here's an interesting obsurity worth hunting for.  Basically, it is a nicely designed paperback collection of short stories written by comic book writers and artists who were at the vanguard of ground-level comics in the late 80s/early 90s, but completely in prose (the exception is the cute and amusing introduction by Matt Feazell of &quot;Zot in Dimension 10 1/2&quot; fame that is completely comprised of pictures without words).<br />Included is Gaiman with an infamous story about VD that has been reprinted several times, including in his collection Angels and Visitations.  Other stories are by Steve Bissette (graphic horror, of course), Jon J Muth (poetic, of course), Ann Nocenti, etc., none of which I am aware of having been reprinted.  But the longest and strongest story, clearly worth the price of admission by itself, is by Alan Moore.  I won't attempt to explain Moore's bizarre, exotic plot beyond saying that it is about a woman being subject to a procedure that will allow her to tap into her unconscious mind to a greater extent than the average person which fans of Promethea will likely enjoy.<br />The quality of the stories and poems is uneven and can at times be accused of pretentiousness, but they all range from good to excellent.  This book serves to prove that comic writers can be just as good as any other style of writer, and it will be treasured forever by those who manage to get a copy.	2001-05-25
US	44415913	RVCZDS3XZRZU0	0922915229	168400838	Cult Rapture: Revelations of the Apocalyptic Mind	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fearless	Where other reporters are afraid of letting their opinions be known, Adam Parfrey, in his exploration of the fringes of society, is fearless.  At times he does seem a bit mean, but come on, he is printing what everyone is thinking!  Included in this collection are tongue-in-cheek reports on women sexually obsessed with Elvis, the history of big-eyed waif velvet paintings, the Unarians (who prophesized that the Space Brothers would land in their UFOs and save the world in 2000 -- are they still around?), Bo Gritz (the man who Rambo is based upon) and, yes, a group that encourages the empowerment of the handicapped through sex.  There are other articles on various charlatans and conspiracy theories,including an excellent one on Waco (Fact: did you know that every ATF agent killed at Waco worked as security for Bill Clinton while he was governor?!?).  My personal favourite is an interview with Shelby Downard, my all-time favourite &quot;paranoid&quot; (I can't wait until his collected works are released in 2002 by Feral House!).	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R3MF3PSBVV725Y	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interesting Concept	The Island of the Day Before is basically one half a science fiction novel written from the point of view of society several hundred years ago and one half timeless romance. <br />The story takes place during a time period when new methods to calculate longitude were becoming increasingly important with the increase in exploration of the new world. The narrator of this book spends much of the novel exploring then current theories of how to calculate longitude, some of which are now easy to laugh at (such as the use of sympathetic wounds on dogs), although all the theories may have seemed logical at the time. <br />The most interesting misunderstanding in this novel, however, is regarding the international dateline.  The narrator of the novel is stranded on a ship wrecked off the coast of an island through which the international dateline passes. Passages in which the narrator describes how he wound up in such a position alternate with passages in which he describes his attempts to reach the island in the belief that if he passes through the date line that he will travel back in time a day and, e.g., be able to save the life of his companion who drowned the day before. However, while this misunderstanding is humourous, Eco's portrayal of the narrator's desire and need for his theory to be true is rather poignant.  Unfortunately, the science can get a bit thick at times and I did find it a bit difficult to wade through some of the longer discourses on astronomy, but it was still worthwhile to make the effort.<br />Making the effort worthwhile is a back story that reads like a cross between Dumas and Poe, filled with strong romance and intrigue.  Amongst the plot elements are dopplegangers, conspiracies, and such characters as Cardinal Richleu.  As with most Eco novels, it is helpful if the reader is actually interested in history.  However Eco is talented enough at bringing historical periods to life that even the most casual historian will be interested.<BR> <BR>Ultimately, I did not find this book as intellectually stimulating as Foucault's Pendulum, but it was more emotionally powerful. I very much look forward to Eco's next novel.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	RLBYHCWYB6P7O	0922915288	823766659	Psychic Dictatorship in the U.S.A.	Books	5	94	99	N	N	Frightening	I do not agree with everything is this book.  For example, while I do agree that False Memory Syndrome has been abused in order to cover up real crimes, false memories have also been used to convict innocent people.  I have a degree in psychology and the main reason I decided not to go into the profession is because of my disgust with much of it, including its many manufactured \\"diseases\\".  However, there is still much that is valid with the profession and I have witnessed people being given indisputably false memories under experimental conditions. But this, of course, does not mean every memory is false (in fact, this supports his overall thesis).  One has to be careful in criticizing anything with too broad a brush stroke.<br />That being said, this is a very thoroughly researched book on the history of mind control experiments, especially in the U.S., with references to, e.g., articles written by Nobel Prize recipients. This book blows the lid off of violations of human rights committed by the U.S. government and others, adding to the damage done by the CIA's already damning public admissions about their MK-Ultra program (and only about 5% of the MK-Ultra files avoided destruction in an attempted coverup before it was discovered by the public!).  Even if you reject half of the data and conclusions in this book, what is left is not only extremely informative but terrifying.<br />It is clear from Alex Constantine's writing that he is not a sensationalist, but is genuinely outraged at the injustices committed by the government and wishes to expose them.  While this quest may, in my opinion, at times blind him when he is assessing his data, much of it is indisputable and I consider him to be a courageous advocate for the freedom and dignity of human beings and not a charlatan or a phony like many other authors.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R31Y0MWZQ89O6C	0878162372	137979583	Black Cat Crossing	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Die Laughing	Richard Sala's more recent works have consisted of long, convoluted noirish plots that are still fun to read, but I have always had a preference for his shorter, more tightly plotted works of the sort found in this collection.  Sala's stories work simultaneously as tributes to and satires of 1930s hard-boiled detective stories and horror movies, with dark and humourous mysteries involving strange trenchcoated characters, hunchbacks and mad scientists directly out of Bela Lugosi or Humphrey Bogart films.  Sala's black and white artwork is also somewhat reminiscent of Edward Gorey and pulp illustrations, but completely unique.  <br />If you are into psychotronic films, you will love Sala's work.  One of the best stories in this collection was actually written by Tom DeHaven, the novelist of Freaks Amour, but all the stories are great and will bring childhood memories of secretly watching black and white midnight movies on your TV way past your bedtime.  FUN!	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R16RN6BI0G8EEQ	0871353091	902264744	Elektra: Assassin (Marvel's Finest)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Masterpiece of the Medium	Elektra is a character originating from the Daredevil comic series who has been killed off and resurrected several times, and the government agency S.H.E.I.L.D. also has a long history in Marvel, but don't let this discourage you.  Fortunately this series stands on its own and all you need to know is in this collection, so if you generally dislike Marvel comics this is not an issue.  This was published during Epic comics' woefully short height when they truly published comics for adults instead of just more violent Marvel comics.<br />I must admit that the plot of this story is not exactly one of great literature.  A popular politician running for President is possessed by the antichrist who wants to destroy the world with nuclear anihilation and only Elektra who is out to assassinate him knows this and she has just escaped from an insane asylum.  Meanwhile, ultra-advanced government agencies as well as the minions of the antichrist are out to stop her.  But Miller and Sienkiewicz elevate the work over its pulp plot.<br />The painted artwork by Sienkiewicz is simply stunning and, other than Stray Toasters, is his largest and most self-contained work (Big Numbers having been aborted, and his work on the New Mutants, etc, being only partial stories).  For this alone, the collection is worthwhile.  However, it is also a masterpiece of the graphic novel genre.  The artwork meshes perfectly with the writing creating an experience unique to comics as opposed to an illustrated novel.  The artwork helps create a psychological depth and abstractions not possible in the narrative alone in a vocabulary unique to comics and not as possible in movies or books.  Thus, just as it is impossible to fully recreate the experience of music in the written word, Elektra cannot be accurately translated to any other medium.  <br />While there have been better comics, few match Elektra: Assassin in its ability to explore the storytelling potential of the graphic novel and still maintain a story that is more than mere surrealism (Sienkiewicz's Stray Toasters, which also accomplishes this is superior, but less available).  More work like Elektra is needed as an injection to wake up a medium that is now largely dominated by movies set to paper (e.g. Ennis' Preacher).	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R1N11WB9S73AD8	0922915571	642760150	Apocalypse Culture II	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not for the Weak Stomached	On rereading my original review I realized that I wrote it too soon after finishing the book and reacted to it on a more emotional than intellectual level. I am still of the opinion that this book is not as good as the first Apocalypse Culture in that it is more disturbing than thought-provoking (the first book was both). I do believe that in order to completely understand culture and society, you have to understand its darker aspects as well as the light.  Unfortunately, here, the articles (vs the first book) don't shed as much light on society as it does on particular individuals, nor does it really contribute much beyond the first book.  The essays in #1 on art, for example, shed more light on culture and the purpose behind disturbing art than the artist profiles featured in this book.  Once the emotional impact of some of the articles wears off, you are not left with any better understanding of the subject matter. A rare exception is the article by Peter Sotos, a descent into the mind of a pedophile (an article in which nobody should be able to find humour), which is equally disturbing and thought-provoking, instead of just the former.<br />Overall, the articles present a disturbing, nihilistic view of society. For example, included is the real-life story (including graphic photos) of a one-time cannibal who has become a beloved celebrity in Japan with many TV appearances, thus it says as much about how sick society can be as it does about the man. (He does appear to be fully remorseful over his act which appears to have been the result of a now absent mental disturbance (thus the reason why he is walking free), but I still find the fact that he can and does cash in on the fame he received from his crime disgusting).<br />There is a bit of levity, however, in such articles as the one about Mr. Awesome, the ultimate egomaniac, who, e.g., has his own costume and specially decorated automobile, has offered a certain bodily fluid to Madonna, and tries to convince everyone that they can make a fortune by investing in publishing his comic book about his life. In fact, having had more time now to reflect on the book, there is more humour in it than I originally remembered, but the more depressing articles are the ones that stick more strongly in the mind.<br />I still recommend this book, but not as strongly as number 1, which gets 5 stars.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R1WSKLWL5V6CFH	082304632X	293198727	Collected Sandman Covers, 1989-1997	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful	If you are reading this, I will assume that you are already a fan of either Dave McKean in particular or Sandman in general.<br />Included are all the covers from the Sandman series minus the logo, publisher and price indicia, UPC codes, etc., thus showcasing these wonderful works of art in the format they deserve. Also included are some extra pages of art used to fill out the Sandman trade paperback collections.  Even if you own the whole series, it is a worthwhile buy.  But what makes the collection particularly unique is the inclusion of a brand new true story by Neil Gaiman and McKean about how the ficitonal world of the Sandman intruded upon their lives during the planning stage of the series.<br />As other reviewers have noted, the artwork is worth viewing on its own merits and deals with universal themes from the unconscious, so even if you don't know what the heck Sandman is it is worth a look.  This is surrealism at its height by a master of many artistic media including painting, collage and computer graphics.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	RSP4AOR4BTP92	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	4	6	13	N	N	For Comic Book Fans Only	This book suffers from the same problem as most superhero graphic novels: It won't mean much to you unless you are already familiar with the character and his/her history.  If you are not familiar with Batman and his history, or are only interested in Alan Moore because of such works as the Watchmen or From Hell, this only gets 2 stars as it is the weakest work I have ever read from the otherwise amazing Alan Moore (the Bolland artwork is fantastic, but not enough to save the story otherwise).  Other than its insights into the two characters (Batman and Joker) it has nothing interesting to say.  However, if you are familiar with Batman, this is an interesting and entertaining look at the eternal battle between Batman and the Joker and its underlying psychology, and is one of the first works to note that such characters as the Joker would not have arisen in the Batman universe if Batman himself did not exist (a sort of yin/yang thing).   And seeing Batman and Joker sharing a laugh over a joke is a wonderful moment, but only if you are familiar with the two.<br />This book is also interesting for its rare retelling of Joker's origin (again, only of real interest to Batman fans).  The only other one I am aware of is from the 1930s or 40s.  It is also the story in which Batgirl gets raped and becomes handicapped.  Much better than other Bat-crap like Knightsfall.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	R30AMGQZYB25YH	0930289226	50556715	Swamp Thing Vol. 1: Saga of the Swamp Thing	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Revelation	This is a collection of Alan Moore's first Swamp Thing stories, and are amongst the first comics to be published for adult readers by a major comics publisher.  The stories do lack the sophistication and literary merit of Moore's best works.  And, of course, Moore's ingenious reinterpretation of the character's history will mean nothing to those who had not been fans of Swamp Thing before Moore took over, but unlike most collections of comics about a popular character, this is irrelevant.  These stories work well on their own as brilliant entries into the horror genre and can be enjoyed by readers of such authors as Clive Barker.<br />The illustrations by such artists as Steve Bissette, John Totleben and Rick Veitch are still masterpieces and remain superior to most of the artists who are popular today.  Unfortunately, the art in this collection suffers from changes in printing techniques since the stories' original publication, leaving the colours a bit too bright and garish in contrast to the moody story and artwork.  However, it is difficult and expensive to get the originals so this is something one can live with.	2001-05-22
US	44415913	ROSMGMB6NTNPM	0679726489	555960912	The Complete Monty Python's Flying Circus : All the Words, Volume 2	Books	5	2	4	N	N	It's....	a wonderful collection of the scripts to the BBC television series.  The only thing missing are the animated sequences by Terry Gilliam, but I can't see those translating well into the written word.<br />Even if you have all the videos, this book is worthwhile.  Seeing the skits played out in your mind without any limitations in budget or special effects or with audience laughter is often superior to watching the TV show, especially since many of Python's skits are driven largely by dialogue or easily imagined visuals (e.g. the Parrot sketch).   Even the more surreal skits can be more surreal when imagined from the scripts.<br />Don't be silly. Buy it.	2001-05-18
US	44415913	R2Z6UXQ79KSVZF	0922915148	769507509	Secret and Suppressed: Banned Ideas and Hidden History	Books	5	62	64	N	N	For the Openminded	This book doesn't pretend to be 100% true.  The editor Keith even warns to the introduction of some articles that this or that particular one may be deliberate disinformation.  However, as he notes in the introduction to the book, most media is unwilling to even allow the public to consider ideas that are counter to accepted dogma and make up their own minds, and the purpose of the book is to stimulate debate.  <br />Some of the articles are extremely well researched and beyond dispute and in the vein of the Project Censored book series, like one proving that the Jonestown Massacre was NOT a mass suicide but a mass murder (drinking poison Kool-Aid does not leave bullet holes in one's back).  There are more questionable but still interesting articles, e.g. one on how Aids was invented by the government to eliminate blacks and gays, but with some clearly factual background.  A, what I assume, is a brilliant social satire written from the point of view of &quot;The Conspiracy&quot; called &quot;Quiet Weapons for Secret Wars&quot; which one realizes, after reading for a while, is about how the monetary system ITSELF(vs. Capitalism, etc.) may be seen as a tool of social control.  There are also paranoid rants of varying worth, but the most indisputely brilliant of them being by Shelby Downard which may be easy to dismiss on an intellectual level, but is very effective on an emotional level.  <br />Also included is a brilliant essay &quot;Is Paranoia a Form of Awareness?&quot; written by the only person to have published a book about Lee Harvey Oswald BEFORE the Kennedy Assasination (about their life in the Marines and as guinea pigs for MK-Ultra) that notes that the so-called average person is usually in a state of denial and also notes his own experiences with the Garrison investigation (depicted in the movie JFK).<br />And don't place any importance into the fact that there is a swastika on the cover.  There is also a cross, a crescent, and other symbols that have beenused to control the masses on the cover.  The fact that someone who hasn't even read the book missed the point further illustrates the book's necessity.	2001-05-18
US	44415913	RIAE8JHMZR8KO	0679748253	950349469	Beautiful Losers	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful	Beautiful Losers is really a poem disguised as a novel.  The farther you get into the book, the more stream of consciousness it becomes.  Basically, it is about a man who has suffered great loss finding redemption amidst the turmoil of 1960s Quebec.  It also is the story about an indigenous woman obtaining sainthood during the turmoil of the age of exploration.<br />The only criticism I have ever heard when discussing this book with others is that it is vulgar (and only from one person), and he completely dismissed the whole book on this basis.  That completely misses the point.  It does get vulgar, but the novel is about ordinary people finding enlightenment within the physical world, with all its blood and detritous, and finding hope amongst suffering vs. going up into the mountains and seeking a guru or denying the body as evil like the Cathars.  It is about the spirituality that can be found even in the physical world.  As a result, if you read it in a bad mood, it may at first reinforce your mood, but it will ultimately pull you out the other end and help you get through.<br />The book is disturbing at times and requires careful reading, but it is ultimately beautiful.	2001-05-18
US	44415913	R1JONOIYUOGUTQ	0679721274	195441892	The Complete Fawlty Towers	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Good, but GET THE VIDEOS INSTEAD	In some ways I prefer reading the scripts to Monty Python's Flying Circus over watching the original TV series (e.g., your imagination does not have the severe budget limits of the show). But reading the scripts to Fawlty Towers, while a fun experience in itself, is not as good as watching the show.  The show did have as good of a set as it needed, and the script loses something without getting to see the wonderful physical comedy of the Basil Fawlty and Manuel characters.  I don't honestly know if I would find the book as funny without picturing John Cleese's expressions from various episodes from memory.  As a result, while I give the book 5 stars for its side-splitting humour, I would still recommend getting the videos instead.	2001-05-18
US	44415913	R3SHTZXM0PBSEJ	0743417321	659759443	Cabal	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Disappointing	I picked up this book expecting much better from Barker who, even with his less serious work is still a very effective writer. Unfortunately, this book was pure fluff. Basically, Boone, the main character, is convinced by his psychologist that he is a serial killer (guess who really is) and winds up having the law after him. He runs, his girlfriend follows him, his psychologist follows her, he becomes the messiah of a cult made up of monsters living in hiding under a graveyard in Canada after he is bitten by one of them, and there are battles with local villagers and the psychologist. This book can be read quickly in one afternoon and strikes me more as being one of Stephen King's weaker novellas or a movie treatment than a Barker novel (it WAS made into the movie Nightbreed). Even Barker's shorter works are more suspenseful and interesting. Still, it is fun, light reading, but if I wanted to experience a B-movie plot I would have rented a movie instead of spending the afternoon reading a book from someone I expected much better from.	2001-05-17
US	44415913	R2Z5W14MPLEW9S	0440500702	976631306	Schrodinger's Cat Trilogy	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Mind Expanding	This trilogy is structured to be the literary equivalent of quantum theory. For example, each part deals with a different potential universe, all similar to each other and our own, but with slight differences.  So in one universe, for example, Carl Jung, vs. James Joyce, is the author of Ullyses (both being well versed in the same symbolism).  Subplots begun in one universe are taken up in the next, like the influence of quarks. The main difference is that society in each subsequent universe is slightly more enlightened, therefore only the last Earth escapes total destruction at the hands of terrorists (or, like Schrodinger's cat, the Earth is alive, dead, or in a state of potential). Along the way, there are interesting lessons in Economics (noting, e.g., how we take money for granted as a part of society, but it isn't a necessary part of society, but just a construct), Sociology, etc.  And it is filled with great, laugh out loud humour, sometimes Pythonesque.  Without the help of the Illuminatus Trilogy's co-author, this book is far less literary, but it is filled with as many ideas in fewer pages.  This is the best introduction to Wilson's work, fictional or non-fictional.  Highly recommended.	2001-05-17
US	44415913	R2OYA4EZRQP2D1	0440203198	764401873	The Messianic Legacy: Startling Evidence About Jesus Christ and a Secret Society Still Influential Today!	Books	5	43	47	N	N	Must Read for Fans of Umberto Eco	When it comes to writing about history from 2000 years ago through the Dark Ages, a lot of speculation is necessary.  Literacy was low so there weren't many written records to begin with, and the church, etc., had a lot of control over what information could be dispensed.  As a result, a lot of speculation over this period is necessary.  Baigent, et al., recognizing this, for part of the book examine Biblical history using the oldest surviving records as a basis point instead of church doctrine or the latest translation of a translation, etc, of a pieced together, largely edited, and largely oral history called the Bible.  Therefore, while their speculations may be as historically sound as anyone else's, some will denounce them as blasphemous.  The rest of the book then seeks to at least verify that their interpretations of the Bible have existed long throughout history by trying to determine the beliefs of certain secret societies who claim to be guardians of &quot;The Truth&quot;.<br />However, now instead of being impaired so much by a lack of records, the authors are forced to speculate about the secret societies' beliefs.  Despite tracking down sources within a secret society, the authors' job is made difficult by the fact that such societies not only keep their secrets secret, but also fractionalize, engage in internal political struggles and have their own debates about dogma.<br />Like Foucault's Pendulum, which this inspired, this book is ultimately a detective novel about various writers trying to get inside the minds of secret societies and running into various obstacles.  It may dissapoint readers who want all their answers handed to them (and the authors don't even pretend to have them), but life is not that simple.  Sometimes knowing what the right questions are is just as important.  This is a fun, interesting, thought-provoking, mind-expanding book.	2001-05-17
US	44415913	R3W2TEVKH00IKQ	0312131496	734088572	The Psychotronic Video Guide To Film	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Not Leonard Maltin	Just some warnings: If you are just searching for movie ratings, this is not your book. Weldon occassionally lets you know which movies he absolutely loves or hates, but he usually keeps his overall opinion to himself, choosing instead to describe the movies with neutrality (although frequently in a humourous manner). But it is the best reference book for learning about strange, weird, anti-establishment, etc., movies that usually only get one dismissive line of description in more commercial guides and will have you running back and forth to video stores.  But WARNING: this book is a sequel to the Psychotronic Encyclopedia and only overlaps it when new information has come to light about a previously listed movie.  So, for example, Psycho 2 and up are listed, but not the original (which is in the &quot;Encyclopedia&quot;).  Also, it only covers movies up to approx. 1996.  I assume a third book with updates will eventually come out.	2001-05-17
US	44415913	R3LHA31NQ3H2N	0425127931	942931748	The Damnation Game	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great First Outing	The Damnation Game was Clive Barker's first full-length novel.  Therefore, in many ways it is closer to the type of story he wrote for the Books of Blood collections than the dark fantasy he has written since Weaveworld.  It also owes a lot to Stephen King in my opinion (though not as much as Cabal), but it still has Barker's distinctive touches making it superior to most of King's works.  There is less moral ambiguity in the Damnation Game than his later works.  For example, the villians are clearly villians, as opposed to, e.g., the other-dimensional salesman in Weaveworld. Barker also nicely balances scenes of pure psychological horror with disturbing scenes of gore.  And it has one of the most interesting cannibals I've come across outside of Hannibal.  Not as thought-provoking as his later work, but far more entertaining.	2001-05-17
US	44415913	R32ZTE7PP3LWRH	0394754417	406072874	Hardboiled Defective Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Nihilistic Fun	Out of all of Burns' work, I don't consider this his best, but it is definitely the most fun.  El Borbah, a character based upon El Santos, the star of popular Mexican Action films, is a fat dude in wrestling tights and mask who solves crimes and kicks ***.  While the world runs down in chaos around him, El Borbah just wants to earn a buck fighting crime.  Includes stories re. the next step after body-piercing, genetic engineering and fast food chains, and other sorts of weirdness.  BUY THIS or the Fantagraphics reprint NOW!	2001-05-16
US	44415913	RFC79IEYACB51	0375406921	392405614	David Boring	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Not Boring	Falling halfway between the surrealism of &quot;Like a Velvet Glove Cast in Iron&quot; and the realism of &quot;Ghostworld&quot;, David Boring is a story about a young man who, on the one hand, has an inability to adapt to change because of his obsessiveness, but who nevertheless remains stable no matter what is thrown at him because of his very faults (although that means remaining constantly dissatisfied with life).  I don't believe that David Boring (whose name I assume is a nod to the great Superman artist of the 1950s Wayne Boring) is meant to be as interesting as the events around him, but is meant to illustrate a person stuck in a rut no matter what goes on around him.  Instead of moving on to a new girlfriend, for example, he continues to obsess about the one who has just dumped him, and instead of living his own life, he obsesses about his father through his old Yellow Streak comics.  What makes this story depressing is that many of us can see a little of ourselves in David Boring.  But underneath it all, David Boring is, at least, a survivor.  It is this sort of imposed self-examination that makes this an important and effecting work of literature and the accompanying artwork by Clowes is simple but moody and emotional.	2001-05-16
US	44415913	R2VKDUI1CZQQM2	0062734172	212117278	Everything Is Under Control: Conspiracies, Cults, and Cover-ups	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not for "Nuts"	Robert Anton Wilson first became associated with conspiracy theories after publishing his \\"fictional\\" Illuminatus trilogy which he used to illustrate how people filter information from the world around them in a manner dependant upon their social and cultural imprints,  thus if you tend to believe in conspiracies, you can interpret most data so as to confirm your theories and ignore info that contradicts them.  Of course, many who don't believe in conspiracies, etc., are guilty of the same thing in reverse... Wilson himself tries to tread the middle ground, pointing out in his personal opinion of various theories what seems to be fact, fiction, or merely plausible but not conclusive, and with a great deal of wit and openminded skepticism.  You may disagree with some of his opinions, but the basis for them is still rational.<br />Since his trilogy, Wilson has been accused of being a part of the conspiracy, of being an alter ego of Timothy Leary, etc., so you know he is careful.  But another result of his fame is that he has been the recipient of many interesting theories from those either accusing him or believing him to be a sympathetic ear, thus this book is filled with many interesting theories not as famous as the JFK assassination.  Therefore, while this book lacks in-depth coverage of theories that have already been covered to death, this makes the book a more interesting addition to the large number of books already existing on the subject, especially with its theoretical background (neuro-linguistic programming, etc.).<br />Not perfect, but highly recommended even to those not generally interested in conspiracy theories.	2001-05-16
US	44415913	R1SZPP27U85YCX	0060951168	383293249	The Fairly Incomplete and Rather Badly Illustrated Monty Python Songbook	Books	4	4	6	N	N	For Silly Glee Club Members Only	This book is filled with lots of hillarious song lyrics, ranging from the witty to the weird and silly and is useful if you feel the need to sing along to some of your favourite Python songs while listening to a Python* CD, especially when you come across parts where it is difficult to understand what they are singing. Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend buying this book. The artwork is interesting**, but is not worthwhile in itself, and just reading the lyrics is less rewarding than listening to the songs.  And none of the songs are new.  So if you just like LISTENING to Python CDs and don't feel the need to join in***, there is no point in buying the book.  Furthermore, if you want it for playing the songs on the piano, as some of the other reviewers point out, it is often difficult to read, and it is also impossible to prop up properly without causing some damage to the spine (of course if you don't care, you could just cut out the pages, etc.).<br />*Not recommended for singing along to death metal bands...	2001-05-16
US	44415913	R3027R160R5LRZ	0609808206	8978973	The Official Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide, 31st Edition	Books	1	19	37	N	N	Not for People Who Care About Comics	To get my biases out of the way: I am of the opinion that comics should be collected for their entertainment value and not as an investment. Even then, collectors need protection from price gouging, so if the guide actually played the role of protecting collectors by helping establish what a good price is for each comic it would be of some use. However, it has earned the nickname of the \\"Overprice Guide\\" for a good reason, and as a result isn't even of much use to investors, let alone collectors.<br><br>1. Many comic stores use the latest guide as an excuse to raise their prices as much as possible regardless of their own experiences of supply and demand. Many stores will even charge over the priceguide listing suggesting that the demand has continued to rise since the book was published when the opposite is usually true. Then, in a vicious cycle, the next guide reflects these changes. Speculators taking note of brief trends in the price guide will also temporarily incr!ease demand and decrease supply of the listed comics by buying them out, thus lending the Price Guide some artificial legitimacy through self-fulfilled prophecy. This sort of thing then usually winds up collapsing in on itself when speculators try offloading their hoards of speculative treasure and wind up flooding the market with titles with little actual demand. Look for example at the death of Superman issues or the brief Valiant craze. Hot titles one year are found collecting dust in bargain bins the next, thanks in part to the speculative market supported by the price guide.  By basing its own listing on irrational market activity, Overstreet (which is unfortunately the most influential guide) contributes to this problem.<br><br>2. It is easy to compare two editions of Overstreet's Price Guide one or two years apart and find many listed prices that have dramatically decreased because the Guide has fallen into the trap of reflecting brief trends. The Guide is obsolete almo!st as soon as it comesout. The only areas in which the Guide IS useful are for titles whose trends have been well-established over many years (e.g. old EC comics, Action Comics #1, etc.) and how many can afford that?  Sure, the rolling average helps a bit, but most irrational inflation occurs with new titles that haven't yet been listed and therefore are immune from the rolling average.  The rolling average then helps keep these titles listed at an inflated price even while the market tries to correct itself.<br><br>3. If you try TRADING, let alone selling, a comic to a comic store, you can only expect a small percentage of the priceguide list (unless it is a classic collectible) because the store will refuse to gamble on the possibility of selling the latest overpriced dud or probably already has it in stock or doesn't need it wasting valuable space that could be put to better use.  If the Overstreet, as it claims, reflects the market accurately, customers should get better !rates on trade.  They don't because THE OVERSTREET HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH ACTUAL RATES OF DEMAND.<br><br>4. If the book were truly for collectors, it would list as many lesser known titles as possible. But it doesn't. Many titles that aren't trendy are not even listed, and I'm not referring here to totally obscure self-published mini-comics and their ilk, but to well respected alternative and underground titles, etc. Thus the Price Guide is very incestuous, keeping some titles in the limelight and others in obscurity.<br><br>5. For a book that is half full of paid advertisements, the price is horrible. It seems like the book could be free and the publisher would still make a profit. The advertisements aren't even much of a service. You can locate most of the stores listed for free on the internet or, if you're visiting a new area, find a larger number of local stores listed in the yellow pages. Why should the buyer pay for largely useless paid advertisements?<br><br>I consider! the price guide a sad, unfortunate waste. Buy some comics instead and enjoy yourself.	2001-05-11
US	44415913	RDT8FSRYDDQ76	1561841536	78607629	Rebels & Devils: The Psychology of Liberation	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Uneven and Not Useful	...<br />Included in the first edition were excellent essays by such well-known and controversial figures in the field of Liberation Psychology such as Robert Anton Wilson and Timothy Leary. Of course anyone who challenges the widely held sacred cows of society will be controversial. Unfortunately, none of these essays added anything to their solo works which deal far better with their individual theories.  The remainder of the book included a juvenile, poorly drawn and written and incomplete comic book story about a voodoo man, and a large load of pseudo-mystical crap, and the braggings of various writers about what big rebels they are in the style of pretentious junior highschool student diaries.  <br />Of course Wilson has pointed out that engaging in any behaviour that challenges societal imprints can help liberate a person from the neuroses of society, therefore even engaging in &quot;pseudo-mystical crap&quot; can help, so some may find even those parts of the collection useful, but I'd rather not trade society's imprints for that of some self-appointed guru.  Overall the book was only worthwhile if you were interested in eventually becoming initiated into the mysteries of the Order of the Golden Dawn.<br />Given the publisher's history with other books, I do not expect that the second edition offers any improvement.  So if you are interested in Psychological Liberation but not mystery cults, then be warned: the first edition is worth avoiding and I am sure the same is true for the second.	2001-04-27
US	44415913	R3F3LPOH6MWFWV	156097172X	526973753	The Complete Crumb Vol. 11: Mr. Natural Committed to a Mental Institution!	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Crumb Fans Rejoice	This series is called the &quot;Complete Crumb&quot; for a reason.  It is a collection of his complete works.  As a result, some people who enjoy some of his work might not enjoy all of his work, but different strokes for different folks. Only the most diehard fan will find 100% of Crumb's works enjoyable.  However, anyone buying this series is most likely already a diehard fan, and more casual readers can try out his regular format books quite cheaply to get a taste of his style or buy a more thematic collection to play it safe.  As usual, Fantagraphics has published a collection living up to its extremely high standards of quality with excellent printing and reproduction values that will be treasured by fans of the comic arts.	2001-04-24
US	44415913	R2U4ZC0MWRQATK	1562012045	145083806	The Coed and the Lady	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Disappointing	I found that this book was a bit too radical in some respects for my taste, for example women being used (albiet consensually) as toilets, and moreso than the cover description indicates.  At least it did not have rape or mutilation.  However, I do recognize that not everyone has the same taste when it comes to what turns them on, no matter how depraved it may be. But there are weaknesses with the novel that I believe almost everyone, no matter what their taste, would find disappointing:<br />1. There is no real seduction.  Every woman in the novel appears to consider almost every sex act they engage in something normal and everyday.  I would prefer to see an &quot;innocent&quot; girl seduced into her first lesbian act, but they just jump right in.  That takes away from the frission.<br />2. The descriptions are rather surface.  Just Girl A does this, Girl B does that, plus dialogue.  There are no particularly great descriptions of what any of the characters look like or what they are thinking.  Nor is any of it all that inventive.  It is just porn without the passion except for the occassional vocalizations.	2001-04-24
US	44415913	R2API16D7DDPVM	0946790043	239781030	Strangehaven Vol. 1: Arcadia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I Would Move to Strangehave if I Could	This is the first collection of one of the best independent comic series being published these days, which unfortunately comes out too infrequently.  With its excellent dialogue, character development and almost photorealisitc black and white art, it is like a light-hearted alternative to From Hell.<br />Combine the Prisoner with Twin Peaks, subtract all the secret agents and a lot of the darkness and add some romance and humour and you have Strangehaven. A normal guy winds up lost and enters a little villiage in the middle of nowhere filled with eccentric characters and can't seem to find his way back to &quot;civilization&quot;. There is a murder mystery involving a cult clearly based on the Masons which has been slowly unfolding over the years, but so far this has remained largely in the background as we get to know each of the characters and their wonderful little quirks and histories (things only really take off near the end of Volume 2). <BR>Frankly, I would be satisfied with the series even without the mysteries thrown in given the town's interesting inhabitants and their stories.  Like me, I'm sure you'll find yourself wishing you could move to Strangehaven, a village filled with the beauties and delights of scenic small-town living but without any of the boredom.  However, the mystery is a nice bonus that will keep you guessing and speculating (Who is the woman in the fishtank?  Is that Alan Moore lookalike really an alien?  Is Strangehaven really just a small remote village?)	2001-04-23
US	44415913	R13VG0CGA0C439	0919359086	7577772	Cerebus, Volume 1	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Indispensable	Cerebus, originally to be titled Cerberus but for a printing error, is one of the most important comic books ever published. Begun in the late 1970s as a parody of Marvel Comic's version of Conan the Barbarian by an employee of Now and Then Comics in Kitchener, Ontario, Canada, it quickly grew into a unique entity. Filled with sophisticated plots, emotional depth and (not counting the earliest issues) exquisite artwork, Cerebus quickly became the standard against which all other titles were measured (that is, by people who had outgrown immature power fantasies about men in tights). <br />Cerebus is of extreme historic importance. Sure, there were underground comix before, but nothing matching its scope in straightforward storytelling. The undergrounds were pretty much a dying breed and offered few titles representing the unique vision of one artist. Most were just anthologies with short stories whereas Cerebus became a projected 300 issue epic. Cerebus blazed the trail for the modern self-published, independent comics movement, and alternative publishers like Fantagraphics by encouraging increased creator control artistically and financially. Even the mainstream publishers couldn't ignore his influence, creating such imprints as D.C.'s Vertigo. Even Alan Moore's Swamp Thing couldn't have existed pre-Dave Sim. Cerebus was also important for introducing the concept of a comic epic with a beginning, middle and end with a complete creative vision, vs. a title taken over by whatever writer and artist is handy with the characters never aging or developing. Such ideas as Neil Gaiman's 75 issue Sandman story arch are built upon Sim's innovation.<br />Unfortunately, the earliest issues in this collection (which are still important for introducing the characters) were poorly drawn and written before Sim turned the series into the serious-but-humourous epic it now is, but half-way through, his brilliance begins to show with more complex tales of political intrigue.  If it weren't for people like Sim, I would have given up modern comic books many years ago. Sure, some fanboys who do not read novels try to pass off some books such as the Crow as real art, but trust me, even if you don't usually read comics, buy this. This is serious art and serious literature.	2001-04-22
US	44415913	R13KI6TFRA3HL2	1563890976	903735067	Death of Superman (Superman (DC Comics))	Books	1	14	22	N	N	The Worst Sort of Prostitution	This book is solely the result of economic concerns.  In the early 1990s, the comic book market was doing very well financially, but not artistically. Comics somehow became linked in the minds of most people with card collecting, and comics became a commodity mostly collected for potential future revenue instead of artistic merit. Meanwhile, a bunch of talentless hacks led by such &quot;artists&quot; as Rob Liefeld and Todd McFarlane, left Marvel Comics in droves to create Image comics so they could have more creative control. Did the comic industry use this opportunity to get out of the artistic ghetto? NO. At Image, the general formula became having large, brainless characters violently pound the crap out of each other for little apparent reason and adolescent boys, trying to seem mature, bought them by the barrel-full for their violent content. &quot;Investors&quot;, seeing this trend, bought up these comics to seal in vaults to sell later (they hoped) at inflated prices. And sales of such titles as Superman without as much blood and guts dropped.<br />Did D.C. counter by hiring better writers and artists? NO. They decided: let's kill off Superman, get tons of free publicity, cater to the lowest common denominator, and prey upon the greed of market speculators. Ironically, the storyline attempts to make the occassional &quot;relevant message&quot; about the evils of violence while capitalizing upon it in a brainless story with mediocre art of two characters trading punches for dozens of pages while wrecking vehicles and homes.<br />Now the comic market has largely collapsed back to normal, most speculators wound up losing money on their investments once they stopped artificially creating demand and scarcity, McFarlane is now making tons of money off of other people's work while doing none himself(which was his complaint about Marvel), and nobody seems to know where Liefeld is anymore. And, surprise!, Superman is alive again.  Was this an act of daring storytelling and dramatic risktaking? NO. They got the increased sales they were looking for (at least temporarily) and brought Superman back to life making the whole exercise artistically pointless.  They are still pulling the occassional gimmick, like (temporarily) changing his costume and powers and people still eat it up.  Avoid this baby like the plague.	2001-04-22
US	44415913	RAUTG3UDD9HQT	0816039798	814899696	The Encyclopedia of Serial Killers	Books	1	5	15	N	N	Warning	I cannot give an informed review of most of the book.  However, while glancing through it at a bookstore I noted that the chapter on Son of Sam was horribly out of date and as a result I did not buy it.  It is now well recognized (since the early 1980s by the NYC DA's office, relatives of some victims, etc.) that while David Berkowitz committed some of the &quot;Son of Sam&quot; crimes, there were actually several Sons of Sam, members of a cult operated by Berkowitz's neighbour, Sam Carr, who had ties to drug dealers.  The cult also had possible connections to the Process Church, and perhaps even the Manson family.  The story about talking dogs was made up by Berkowitz to cover for the rest of the cult, and he took the fall for all the murders having &quot;only&quot; committed a couple of them.  Even A&amp;E, which is often reluctant to take controversial views, had a documentary approx. 2 years ago supporting the cult angle.  Read Maury Terry's The Ultimate Evil instead of this poorly researched chapter.<br />As far as I know the rest of the book is more accurate, but not having read it out of prejudice, I cannot comment.	2001-04-20
US	44415913	R249P5IAHWGH9S	0345433017	32508504	Creepy Susie: And 13 Other Tragic Tales for Troubled Children	Books	2	6	14	N	N	Not Worth the Price	I am a big fan of black humour, but Oblong lacks the style and sophistication of an Edward Gorey, the cuteness of Roman Dirge, or the social critique of Jhonen Vasquez.  The story &quot;Debbies&quot;, for example, does take an unoriginal stab at cliques (see the movie Heathers), but is very weak as satire.  It does reminds me of the fun I had as a little kid telling gross and ridiculous stories around campfires (it is, after all, very juvenile), however at $25 for one panel of art per page it is not at all worthwhile.  Perhaps if it came out as a thin, cheap comic book I would buy it, but only then.	2001-04-20
US	44415913	R3EW571YAH5RWS	074341733X	468106638	In the Flesh	Books	5	5	12	N	N	What's wrong with the U.S.?	One of the reasons why I feel lucky to be Canadian is that we get a lot of the best that both the U.S. (because of our proximity) and Europe (because of our closer cultural ties) have to offer.  Because of this, all 6 volumes of Clive Barker's Books of Blood were availabe here under that title instead of half inexplicably being given a different title, with the original cover paintings by Clive Barker, and all have been largely available here either in the original six volumes or in 2 trade paperbacks reprinting #1-3 and #4-6 respectively.<br />I am sure that if enough fans in the U.S. put in the effort, the american publishers could be convinced to release the whole series as it should be in the U.S.  It is worth the trouble.  When I first read them 15 years ago they were the best horror stories I had ever read, and I still love them.	2001-04-16
US	44415913	R1VWL187IAHHO8	1889539058	717885996	Facetasm : Creepy Mix-And-Match Book of Face Mutations	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Facetastic	Remember those books you played with when you were a kid where on each page would be an ordinary drawing cut into three sections, but if you turned only one or two of those sections to a different page, you would create a new picture meshing together two or three different scenes?  This is the same basic concept, but geared towards adults with the hearts of children (in their desk drawer).<br />Combining their skills are two of the greatest renderers of the strange and grotesque, Charles Burns and Gary Panter.  My one complaint, however, is that what really made this type of book great as a kid was that you could take the ordinary and make it extraordinary and bizarre, however with Facetasm, each original picture is already bizarre as is.  This takes away from the fun of such subversive acts as, e.g., combining a picture of a macho testosterone filled body builder with those of a dainty ballerina and a withered old man.  Here, the artists themselves have already committed the acts of subversion with each original drawing.  But it is still fun to play around with and it contains great artwork by both contributors.	2001-04-15
US	44415913	RT3ZJ0A7JXUQK	0878161783	300357303	Blood Club/Featuring Big Baby	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Classic Burns	This is archetypal burns.  In this case, one of his favourite characters, Big Baby, is sent to summer camp where amongst a population of mainly pre-pubescent boys he discovers sex and becomes caught up in its mysteries. Compounding the usual mysteries surrounding sex is the secret being kept hidden by one of the camp's counsellors.  Big Baby does wind up solving the camp's secret, however, being an innocent, Big Baby does not come out of his experience fully comprehending what has just happened.<br />Although the adult reader will no longer find so much of what is happening to Big Baby mysterious, Burns manages to make us remember what it was like living in a world where much was hidden from us by adults and a sense of mystery underlied much of day-to-day life; a time when dirty jokes were something you laughed at nervously because you understood their taboo nature, but did not fully comprehend what they meant.  And the reader is left wondering whether or not it is a good thing that life is no longer so mysterious after all.	2001-04-14
US	44415913	R3L5S1IBHFFYFI	087816250X	812688534	Charles Burns: Modern Horror Sketch Book	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Table Sketches	While I am a big fan of Charles Burns, his art loses some of its effectiveness in the absence of a storyline.  Sure, there are the usual deformed creatures, but gone are the themes of lost innocence and childhood confusion over sex and parental morals that add to the creepiness of his illustrations.  The drawings are enjoyable, but for the most part they appear to have been quickly sketched on napkins while awaiting dinner in a dark restaurant.  This is for diehard fans only.	2001-04-14
