US	44498121	R1GLX7L8OTBJAJ	0743245547	213360041	Chill Factor: A Novel	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Chilling Romantic Suspense	Brown delivers an eerie tale of a serial killer in this, her latest suspense thriller.  The setting is the wintry mountains of North Carolina, near the small town of Cleary, where five women have disappeared without a trace over the past two years.  With her divorce from local police chief Dutch Burton, Lilly Martin is cleaning out their mountain cabin retreat before she travels back to her Atlanta home.  But her car careens off the road on her way down the mountain, and she hits Ben Tierney, a travel writer whom she met the previous summer.  The two are stranded in Lilly's cabin, as Tierney recovers from his injuries, and romantic tension heats up between them.   <br /> <br />    As police and the FBI continue to search for the abductor, nicknamed Blue for the blue ribbons he leaves when he takes his victims, the storm rages on.  Certain clues leave Lily wondering if the man she is sharing her cabin with might be her greatest fear.  Could Tierney be Blue? <br /> <br />    Brown's small town cast of characters comes alive in quiet Cleary, North Carolina.  From the local high school football coach to the mild mannered pharmacist, it is clear that many of Cleary's residents have dark secrets, and one of them just might be the notorious Blue.  The mystery is expertly crafted; leading readers on a white knuckled ride complete with plenty of red herrings.  The conclusion is tumultuous and explosive, the perfect finale to this bone chilling thriller.  <br />	2005-08-22
US	44498121	RMI61K92RJUM9	0399152806	739064537	Superstition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Explosive Romantic Suspense	<br />    Robards' latest romantic suspense novel ripples with chills as suspense as a serial killer re-emerges after a long absence.  Reporter Nicky Sullivan returns to her native Pawley's Island, South Carolina, to film a segment for her Chicago news show.  She visits an abandoned mansion, the site of the brutal murder of teenaged Tara Mitchell fifteen years ago.  As the crew begins filming, with the presence of Nicky's mother, psychic Leonora James, frantic screams pierce the air, and murder makes a reappearance at the mansion. <br /> <br />    Local Chief of Police, former New Jersey vice cop Joe Franconi, seeks to solve the murder before the killer strikes again.  As romance heats up between Joe and Nicky, he fears for her safety, as she is determined to finish her news segment at the mansion, despite receiving threatening messages from the killer. <br /> <br />    Sultry summer nights provide the perfect setting for this eerily chilling novel, complete with ghosts and a sadistic killer.  The romance heats up alongside the terrifying suspense, leading readers to a nail biting explosive conclusion.   <br />	2005-08-22
US	44498121	R365UCW2JRAO6B	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Enthralling Vampire Novel	Kostova's lengthy debut novel involves a thoroughly intense modern-day search for Dracula amidst the underpinnings of the history behind his legend.  In 1972, a sixteen-year-old student is living in Amsterdam with her professor father Paul when she discovers in his library a letter addressed to \\"My Dear and Unfortunate Successor\\".  Paul explains the letter through first person reminiscences of events that happened some decades prior.  The author of the letter, Paul's former mentor, Professor Rossi, had disappeared without a trace when Paul joined forces with Rossi's daughter Helen to locate the missing man. Paul's journey to find Rossi is intertwined with his search for Vlad Tepes, the Impaler, a fifteenth century ruler, (AKA Dracula)whom Paul believes may be Rossi's abductor.  The journey to locate Rossi is cleverly detailed as Helen and Paul travel from the U.S. to Istanbul and Bulgaria, as the author brings to life each locale, brimming with fascinating detail.   <br /> <br />    Alternating chapters return the reader to 1972, when the teenager leaves Amsterdam to search for her father, whom she believes is in grave danger, though he is merely away on a business trip.  Paul's quest to find Rossi and his daughter's decades later trip to find Paul offer interesting parallels, as both protagonists encounter mysterious vampire-like personas throughout their respective quests. <br /> <br />    Given that both Paul and his daughter's journeys are written in the first person, the reader may experience some confusion at the onset of the novel.  As the plotline of the read continues to flow, father and daughter's stories become more distinct, firmly engaging readers in the mystery behind the legendary Dracula.  Kostova's extensive historical research into both the myth and historical accuracy regarding Dracula add impressive detail to this original, smoothly plotted novel, which craftily combines elements of paranormal with real life experiences.      <br />	2005-07-03
US	44498121	RCMLM0N6P4UA9	1590866002	647042226	Blood Memory (Brilliance Audio on Compact Disc)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Intriguing Suspenseful Novel	Catherine \\"Cat\\" Ferry has left the wealth and privilege of her home in Natchez, Mississippi, to work as a forensic odontologist in New Orleans.  As she assists the NOPD in solving serial murders, she examines the multiple bite marks on each victim, clear indicators of the brutality of the crimes.  When panic attacks leave her unable to continue to work, she returns to her Natchez home only to discover old bloodstains in her childhood room, possibly stemming from her father's murder over twenty years ago.   <br /> <br />    Determined to unearth the truth behind her father's murder, Cat seeks to reacquaint herself with the father she never knew, the man that died at the hands of an intruder when she was only eight.  Her quest soon becomes mired in dark family secrets as her father's murder becomes inexorably linked to the New Orleans serial killings.  With the help of her married lover, NOPD Detective Sean Regan, the father of her unborn child, Cat learns the identities of the murderers, but not before she find herself the target of a stalker intent on killing her. <br /> <br />    Nail-biting suspense is the mainstay of this captivating novel that simultaneously focuses on unsolved crimes and unspeakable abuse.  While the length of the audio might be a deterrent for some (it totals sixteen CD's), the narrator's superb execution of the accents and various personas provides hours of riveting entertainment forming a truly memorable and intriguing audio. <br />	2005-05-27
US	44498121	R1K4W1FWIDO231	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Eerie Suspense	As a master of chilling suspense, Koontz sets the stage for his latest, an eerie tale that supercedes reality.  Jimmy Tock was born in Snow Village, Colorado, in late summer of 1974.  At the moment Jimmy was born, his grandfather Josef died in a nearby hospital room.  Prior to his death, Josef predicted five future dates on which his grandson would face mortal danger.   <br /> <br />    Jimmy enjoys a content if uneventful life until his twentieth year, a year in which the first of the five terrible dates is predicated.  As he and his parents attempt to thwart fate and protect Jimmy, they come to the realization that destiny is beyond their control.  When the future dates arrive with their impending doom, Jimmy must to learn to weather these five momentous events that directly link to the day of his birth. <br /> <br />    Alternately scary and mysterious, Koontz's novel is superior to other in the suspense genre through its believability and intensity.  This page-turning read will attract fans and newcomers alike with its ability to totally immerse readers in the astounding events in the life of Jimmy Tock, as the secrets of the past are creatively unveiled.   <br /> <br />	2004-12-17
US	44498121	RCDSMD1CAVDSZ	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating Suspense	Retired Navajo police lieutenant Joe Leaphorn is asked to help with the investigation when Hopi Indian Billy Tuve is arrested and charged with murder.  When a store owner is murdered during a robbery, Billy becomes the chief suspect, as he tries to pawn a diamond similar to the one stolen in the robbery.  But according to Billy, an elderly Native American man gave him the diamond years ago, after meeting Billy in the Grand Canyon.   <br /> <br />    But diamonds aren't endemic to the Grand Canyon.  Decades ago, two jets collided in mid-air over the Grand Canyon, and all on board were killed.  One passenger, John Clarke, was carrying a briefcase full of diamonds when he perished.  His illegitimate child, Joanna Craig, has come to the Grand Canyon to locate her father's bones and prove her parentage.  The trustee of the non-profit trust administering her father's estate wants to prevent her from finding the bones and hires a henchman to simultaneously stop Joanna and locate the missing diamonds.   <br /> <br />    Hillerman interjects plenty of fascinating Native American history along with captivating suspense.  It is a race to the finish as Billy's cousin Cowboy Dashee, Sergeant Jim Chee, and Bernie Manuelito search for the diamonds and Clarke's missing arm.  Pitted against fierce thunderstorms, they must find the diamonds before the henchman does in this no-holds barred intense mystery. <br /> <br />	2004-12-17
US	44498121	R2JRDD44KJTS1T	0060584009	77217173	Metro Girl (Alex Barnaby Series #1)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Entertaining Romantic Suspense	After ten successful Stephanie Plum novels, Evanovich switches gears slightly as she introduces readers to a new heroine, Alexandra \\"Barney\\" Barnaby.  Barney, a Baltimore girl, has a mundane job working for an insurance company, though she spent her high school years and college summers working in her dad's garage.  Her sedate life goes into a tailspin when younger brother Bill calls from Miami in the middle of the night informing her that he's leaving Miami for a while.  Barney has been bailing her younger brother out of trouble for most of her life, and this time is no exception when he ends the phone call with a choice expletive right before the line goes dead. <br /> <br />    Upon arrival in Miami, Barney discovers that Bill is nowhere to be found, and Sam Hooker, a NASCAR driver, claims that Bill escaped Miami on Sam's boat.  The chase is on, as together, Barney and Sam search for clues to Bill's disappearance while avoiding the goons that are constantly after them.  With a healthy dose of testosterone, Sam is an engaging character, repeatedly referring to himself as \\"NASCAR guy\\", though his sense of humor overrides his male chauvinistic failings.  Romance simmers below the surface while Barney and Sam manage, time and again, to outwit their pursuers. <br /> <br />    Evanovich's latest has it all-entertaining characters, classic wit, romance, and a slice of mystery.  Barney is every bit as charismatic as Evanovich's Stephanie Plum, albeit in a uniquely original manner.  Fans of Evanovich's recent release will hope for future installments featuring the zany Barney Barnaby.  <br /> <br />     <br />	2004-11-22
US	44498121	R1VVXHPHR5CQ4C	0743245539	718505481	White Hot	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Smoothly Plotted Suspense	Prolific author Brown returns again with this mix of romance and mystery set  in the sultry bayous of Louisiana.  After the apparent suicide of her brother Danny, Sayre Hoyle travels from her home in San Francisco to Destiny, Louisiana, her childhood home.  Sayre has not had contact with her family since she left Louisiana ten years ago as she bears hatred and resentment for her father Huff Hoyle, owner of the local iron foundry. <br /> <br />    Though she anticipated that her visit to Destiny would be short and sweet, Sayre finds herself unwittingly attracted to the Hoyle family attorney, Beck Merchant, a friend of Sayre's womanizing brother, Chris.  When a local detective begins investigation Danny's death, believing that it may have been murder, Sayre decides to stick around town, in hopes of bringing Danny's murderer to justice. <br /> <br />    As sparks fly between Sayre and Beck, their steamy, sensuous love scenes represent forbidden attraction for Sayre, who sees Beck as just another good old boy loyal to her father.  But Beck's sincere behavior towards the wife of a severely injured foundry worker belies his good old boy status, and Sayre's initial attraction to Beck begins to develop into something much deeper. <br /> <br />    When Huff's network of loyal men begins to break down, picket lines form, and Sayre must decide whether her resentment of her father is her true motivation for seeking justice and fair treatment for the foundry workers.  Intrigue and suspense continue to build as old secrets are revealed, as the novel comes to its stunning conclusion.  While Brown's latest is smoothly plotted, the last chapters seem almost rushed in an effort to fill in the missing details behind the mysteries and romance.  Fans will be pleased with this latest Brown effort that while well-done, is not her best to date. <br />	2004-09-22
US	44498121	R2CRTR3MLEV64Q	0345453824	572584022	Murder List	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Entertaining Romantic Suspense	Julie Garwood has consistently wooed readers with her captivating romantic suspense.  Her latest effort focuses on Chicago hotel heiress, Regan Hamilton Madison, who agrees to help her journalist friend, Sophie, expose Dr. Lawrence Shields, a self-help guru who has bilked lonely women out of their fortunes. Regan and Sophie attend a weekend seminar hosted by Dr. Shields where each conference attendee must write a \\"murder list\\", a list of people they wish dead, and purge them from their minds by burning the list.  Forgetting to destroy her list, Regan leaves the conference and is accosted by a man as her injured knee buckles beneath her.  Though she escapes her pursuer, Regan is horrified to receive e-mails and faxes indicating that her assailant has her murder list and is systematically eliminating those persons on the list. <br /> <br />    Detective Alex Buchanan is assigned body guard detail to protect Regan from her tormentor.  Though attraction sizzles between them, he is reluctant to mix business with pleasure, especially since he is leaving Chicago to take a position with the FBI in Boston.  The somewhat stilted dialogue between Regan and Alec seems superficial until they decide to act on their mutual attraction. <br /> <br />    The suspense is at its best as Alec and fellow detectives attempt to find the man killing those on Regan's list and making her the ultimate victim on his murder list.  Though the identity of Regan's pursuer is revealed precipitously, the breathtaking conclusion is gripping.  While not Garwood's best effort, fans should be pleased-the tried and true relationship between a beautiful woman and her bodyguard hasn't failed yet.       <br /> <br />	2004-09-22
US	44498121	R1P0AQO5D80CBD	0446533475	457990569	Secret Smile (French, Nicci)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Chilling Psychological Thriller	Author French (LAND OF THE LIVING) chills readers with her latest psychological thriller when a love affair goes bad with alarming repercussions.  Miranda is a house painter living in London and enjoying a new relationship with boyfriend Nick when she learns that her ex lover, Brendan Block, and her sister Kerry are now a couple.  A true charmer, Brendan has won over Kerry's parents and claims that Miranda is still having trouble getting over him.   <br /> <br />    Brendan's continued presence in Miranda's life disrupts her relationship with Nick. When Miranda allows Brendan and Kerry to stay in her flat while they are house hunting for their own home and planning their upcoming nuptials, disturbing incidents have her questioning her own sanity as Brendan burrows further into her life.  Though Miranda becomes suspicious of Brendan's role in the death of a family member, he is able to convince her family and the police that her behavior towards him is obsessive. <br /> <br />    Twists and turns fill the pages of this expertly penned thriller.  Fans of true psychological thrillers will be pleased at the unexpected outcome revealed with the breathless conclusion. <br /> <br />	2004-07-28
US	44498121	R7IZ31038DL1C	0345453433	317138666	Kiss Me While I Sleep (Howard, Linda)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enthralling Romantic Suspense	Howard's latest romantic suspense thriller hinges on an Alias type theme when Lily Mansfield, a twenty year veteran CIA assassin, turns rogue and kills a man without the CIA's approval.  Because Salvatore Nervi orchestrated the murder of Lily's closest friends, Averill and Tina, and their daughter Zia, Lily exacts revenge by poisoning Salvatore's wine, assuring his swift death. <br /> <br />    Though Lily becomes severely ill after imbibing only a sip of the tainted wine, her maladies enable her to buy enough time to escape from Paris and return there unnoticed by the Nervi family.  But her rogue actions do not escape the notice of the CIA, especially when Agent Lucas Swain is sent to Paris with the orders to take her out of the game.  The two meet and become allies, when Lucas presents himself as a gun for hire, not CIA.  When Lily agrees to take a job bombing a Nervi laboratory that is manufacturing a vaccination which will make millions after they release a deadly avian-flu like virus on the human population, Lucas is her cohort, as they plot the laboratory's destruction.  As Lucas and Lily's business relationship turns personal, the love scenes are sensuous and suitably steamy, though the two fear that their love affair will end all too soon. <br /> <br />    Non-stop suspense poised against well-developed romance fills the pages of this captivating novel.  Likely Howard's best work to date; readers won't be able to put this one down.   <br /> <br />	2004-07-26
US	44498121	R1J9J8P54ZSUSS	0399152024	113911653	Bait (Robards, Karen)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Captivating Romantic Suspense	Robards returns once again with a pulse pounding novel of romantic suspense.  Maddie Fitzgerald has just taken over her own advertising agency.  Traveling from St. Louis to New Orleans, she hopes to land the biggest account of her career.  But in New Orleans, she is attacked in her hotel room and barely escapes her assailant.  Enter F.B.I. Agent Sam McCabe.  On the trail of a serial killer who calls McCabe and leaves him clues as to the identity of the next victim, McCabe discovers that another Maddie Fitzgerald was murdered in New Orleans on the same night that ad exec Maddie escaped. <br /> <br />    Wary of the F.B.I. for personal reasons relating to her past, Maddie tries to avoid McCabe?s questions about her attacker.  But McCabe is continually persistent and follows Maddie back to St. Louis and saves her life when a sniper tries to kill her in her car.  As McCabe and other agents are assigned to protect Maddie at her home, electrically charged attraction heats up between the two, and McCabe must decide if he wants to get involved with the woman he is assigned to protect. <br /> <br />    Non-stop suspense amidst sensual romance heats up the pages of this captivating novel.  Robards adds a touch of humor to the mystery when Maddie is forced to care for Zelda, the dog belonging to the owner of her newest account.  Top rate suspenseful action and sizzling romance form the backbone of this spectacular read, one of Robards? all-time best.  <br />	2004-07-22
US	44498121	R1KYCD8OB1WLJU	0060504137	477717228	The Color of Death	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Captivating Romantic Suspense	Lowell's romantic suspense novels are always consistently spectacular, and her latest is no exception to this rule.  Jewel cutter Kate Chandler is determined to discover why her half-brother, Lee Mandel, disappeared while acting as a courier transporting some very expensive sapphires.  Though the FBI believes that Lee just disappeared with the merchandise, Kate is convinced that he met with foul play.  She discovers one of the stones Lee was carrying at a local dealers show in nearby Phoenix.  Kate switches the authentic stone with a fake in order to examine the valuable gem to prove that it was the same one in Lee's possession.<br />     While in the process of replacing the real stone and retrieving the fake one she had left in its place, FBI Special Agent Sam Groves catches her in the act and believes her to be a thief until she convinces him that the gem in her possession is synthetic.  Sizzling heat builds between the pair, as he investigates her brother's disappearance and begins to believe that Lee may have been murdered.  Rumors run rampant concerning the organized heists and murders of gem couriers.  And when Sam believes that someone on the inside of the FBI investigation is responsible for leaking info about Kate, his confidential informant, he provides her with personal protection 24/7.<br />    Sensuous romance and captivating suspense are Lowell's forte, and she excels at both in this gripping read.  Though the suspects of the various criminal acts may seem obvious at first glance, carefully readers will be surprised at the novel's conclusion, a fitting ending to a page-turning summer read.	2004-07-01
US	44498121	R2XTAVTGFG3ZM8	0425194779	215433535	On the Edge of the Woods	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Crafty Novel of Gothic Suspense	Ms. Tyrrel's debut novel is filled with sensual romance set against the backdrop of an old home replete with a haunting history.  When San Francisco architect Stacy Addison decides to buy a mountain home away from the bustle of the city, she finds the perfect property in the Sierra Mountains.  Though in a state of disrepair, the price is right, and Stacy purchases the beautiful rambling home whose former elderly owner, Mrs. Shapiro, is now residing in a nursing home.<br />    Stacy is immediately attracted to her new neighbor, photographer Brand Vandevere, who lives in a nearby remodeled barn with his cousin Tess and housemate Saul.  Upon learning that Brand had originally wanted Stacy's home for his own, Stacy remains conflicted about her feelings for him, as his moody, brooding nature confuses her.  The suspense continues to escalate when Stacy receives threatening phone calls at her apartment and architectural firm in San Francisco, and she is forced to permanently relocate to her new home.  <br />   The attraction between Stacy and Brand ignites in a sizzling love scene at a fourth of July picnic, but Brand leaves for a hiking expedition soon afterwards, and his off again/on again girlfriend Alana is a constant presence at the barn.  Stacy alternates between missing Brand and wondering if he is the person behind the vicious phone calls, even as she becomes disturbed by the constant premonition that someone is coming into her home while she is absent.  This crafty novel of romance and suspense culminates in a breathtaking conclusion that will leave the reader eagerly anticipating this new author's next novel.	2004-05-27
US	44498121	R3JGDE6H3H0866	0446529435	832867874	The Promise of a Lie	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Terrific Suspenseful Novel	Therapist and author Dr. David Remler has a successful Manhattan practice but feels a void since the untimely death of his pregnant wife several years ago.  New patient Samantha Kent confides to David that her husband is an abusive rich and powerful man who will stop at nothing to claim custody of their young child should she leave him.  Sam has had thoughts of killing her husband, but David doesn't believe that she will act on those impulses.  <br />    After a chance meeting outside the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Samantha convinces David to let her fix him dinner at his apartment, and doesn't act on his desire for her, promptly escorting her home following dinner.  Later that evening, in the early hours of morning, Sam phones David and indicates that she has killed her husband.  Acting purely on instinct, David travels to Sam's address only to discover her dead husband.  With the imminent arrival of the police, David explains how he has arrived at Sam's home.<br />    But this cut and dry case increases dramatically in complexity when David is arrested for the murder of Conrad Birch, Samantha's husband, and when the real Sam Kent appears, she is not his client.  As high powered attorneys attempt to prove David's innocence, he pins his hopes for acquittal on locating the elusive woman impersonating Samantha Kent, thereby proving the existence of his mystery client.  Suspense escalates to a fever pitch when the judge in David's trial receives a mysterious envelope which has the power to help his case.  With plenty of red herrings thrown in, the reader will be stunned at the cataclysmic conclusion which is certain to make many readers a fan of author Howard Roughan.	2004-04-21
US	44498121	RXSIWWSIH80T3	0451208595	606864129	Wedded Bliss	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Superb Regency-era Romance	Humorous and romantic, Ms. Metzger's latest Regency-era romance features strong-willed heroine, Alissa Henning, widowed wife of a duke's disinherited younger son.  Alissa cares for her two young sons, her teenaged sister, Amy, and William, the young son of her absent neighbor, Robert Rothmore, Earl of Rockford after Rockford's estate manager ran off with the earl's spinster sister.  In a bold move, Rockford, after visiting his abandoned estate, proposes marriage to Alissa if she will continue to look after his son William and his heir Hugo, in exchange for his providing for herself, Amy, and her two fatherless boys.<BR>  <BR>    What begins as a marriage of convenience turns into much more when Alissa and her brood travel to London shortly after Robert abandons her for London on their wedding night.  With the tumult caused by four young boys and their puppies, Rockford is forced to change his solitary lifestyle, as he admits Alissa and their combined brood into his life and his heart.  A subplot involving a lecherous old nobleman questing after Alissa's sister Amy strengthens Robert's feelings for his newfound family in this enthralling stand-out historical romance.	2004-04-18
US	44498121	R3QPVAIFOKBIB9	0316603570	335598141	3rd Degree	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Pulse-Pounding Suspense	Third in the Women's Murder Club series, (1ST TO DIE and 2ND CHANCE), Patterson's latest finds Detective Lindsay Boxer of the San Francisco P.D. witnessing a horrific bombing of a residence after her morning jog.  The residence belonged to Morton Lightower, a CEO of X/L/Systems, who made money from selling stock in his company the same day that his investors lost money.  Lindsay's subsequent investigation of the crime becomes more significant when her journalist friend Cindy Thomas of the CHRONICLE begins receiving threatening e-mails from the purported terrorists signed \\"August Spies\\".  As more prominent, well-to-do businessmen are killed, Lindsay seeks to find a connection between the crimes, as her search leads her to Berkley and its revolutionary days of the 1960's.  <br />    Suspense is never in short supply, and Patterson has added an element of romance when the Deputy Director of Homeland Security, hunky Joe Molinari, arrives in town to work with Lindsay and put together the pieces of this fascinating criminal puzzle.  With global leaders heading to San Francisco for a G-8 conference, the feds and S.F. P.D. work closely together to apprehend the culprits behind the anti-establishment terroristic threats in a pulse pounding race against time.  Author Patterson's short, on point chapters hold the reader's attention until the last page is turned.	2004-03-25
US	44498121	R1RBZFN2TTKV	0316000647	657855247	Absolute Friends	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Provacative Spy Novel	Le Carre brings readers one of his most provocative novels to date, when former British spy Ted Mundy spends his days conducting tours of one of Mad King Ludwig's Bavarian castles.  With a flashback to his earlier days, Ted recalls meeting friend and fellow supporter of Communism, Sasha, in Berlin, a friendship never totally forgotten, when Mundy decided to join Sasha's spying efforts years later and create a double life from his British diplomatic service.  But it is Sasha's present-day reappearance at Ludwig's castle that changes Ted's future, as Sasha introduces him to Dimitri who mysteriously wants to fund Ted's now defunct language school in Heidelberg to turn it into an unusual Counter University.<br />    Just who is Dimitri, what type of school is he interested in starting, and is Sasha a dupe, or is Ted Mundy the one to take the fall when a former CIA operative hones in?   Author Le Carre draws the reader into Mundy's world of clashing ideals and cultures, from the deserts of Pakistan to the subversive politics of Berlin in the 1960's to present-day Germany, where no-one is exactly who they seem, even Mundy, who grapples with his own identity.	2004-02-20
US	44498121	R39W6YW7BRD7ZC	0066211247	145502276	Ain't She Sweet?	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Captivating and Witty Romance	Sugar Beth Carey is back in town.  After a fifteen-year absence and three husbands later, Sugar Beth returns to the small town of Parrish, Mississippi, to claim her inheritance from Aunt Tallulah, the carriage house belonging to Sugar Beth's childhood home, Frenchman's Bride.  Desperately seeking funds to help support her mentally disabled adult step-daughter, Sugar Beth searches the carriage house for a precious painting hidden by her deceased aunt.  But there is hell to pay, as Sugar Beth has nary a friend in Parrish, and Frenchman's Bride is now owned by Colin Byrne, her former English teacher that was bounced after she accused him of sexual misconduct.  Even her long ago friends, the Seawillows, have deserted Sugar Beth in favor of her step-sister Winnie, after Sugar Beth abandoned them years ago.  <br />    In this complex study of small town relationships, Sugar Beth must learn to co-exist in a town that has abandoned her as its golden girl, even as she faces Winnie, the woman she humiliated as a girl who married Ryan Galantine, the man Sugar Beth discarded years ago.  While the sparks fly between Sugar Beth and Colin, he is determined to exact his revenge for her role in getting him fired years ago.  Hiring Sugar Beth as his housekeeper seems to be the perfect humiliation, but underneath Sugar Beth's witty banter, Colin is surprised to find a woman as desirable for her looks as her strength of character.  Ms. Phillips latest never ceases to entertain in this novel that creatively combines steamy romance with a captivating plot line.	2004-02-18
US	44498121	R3B9Q105S5O470	0446530980	861999493	The Zero Game (Meltzer, Brad)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Satisfying Political Thriller	What if staff members of U.S. Congressmen placed bets on whether certain portions of bills before Congress would be passed?  And just what happens when the stakes become too high, resulting in murder?  That is precisely what author Meltzer explores in his latest novel of political thrills and chills when Congressional staffers Matthew Mercer and Harris Sandler bet on the passage of a former South Dakota gold mine sale in an Appropriations bill.  When a Congressional page absconds with Matthew and Harris' betting money, one of them makes the mistake of following the \\"page\\" and becomes the murder victim of wildcard hit man Martin Janos.  <br />    But the suspenseful journey really commences when the remaining staffer finds Senate Page Viv Parker's stolen nametag near the site of the murder.  Fearing for his life, he enlists the help of seventeen-year-old Viv Parker, as together, the two attempt to find the significance of the land deal, traveling to South Dakota to solve the mystery behind the formerly defunct gold mine, all the while eluding the wily Janos.  The pulse pounding adventures of this duo are imbued with a sense of realism from author Meltzer, who once served as an intern on Capitol Hill.  Full of twists and turns, Meltzer's latest is a thriller complete with the scary reality of the underbelly of politics.	2004-02-17
US	44498121	R3N6UEBCJOGBJM	0345443209	659066638	Out of Reach	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fascinating Thriller	Patricia Lewin, author of highly acclaimed novel BLIND RUN, returns again with her latest, a thriller whose main protagonist is a CIA operative.  Dr. Erin Baker, a Georgetown University professor, is also a CIA agent, working undercover to ferret out possibly terrorist sentiment among the students there while also caring for her young niece.  When a small girl is abducted from the park Erin visits for her morning run, the ice cream vendor working there that day trigger's memories of a magician present at a Miami park where her sister, Claire, was abducted nineteen years ago.  Though recovered four years after her disappearance, Claire has suffered from psychiatric difficulties ever since.  Convinced that the ice cream vendor is the magician that took her sister, Erin approaches FBI agent Alec Donovan, as the two attempt to put the pieces together and search for other missing children.<br />    Ms. Lewin's complex plot ties together the disappearances of children with a slave ring, and a powerful German businessman, General William Neville.   As Alec and Erin search together to connect General Neville and the child snatcher in his employ to the abduction and sale of children, their lives remain in constant peril, until the novel's surprising conclusion.  With the popularity of espionage plots in both visual and written media, this newest novel from Ms. Lewin should prove fascinating for those enthralled with the subterfuge of covert operations.	2004-01-24
US	44498121	RTC88706AJZNQ	0743223551	716197705	The Kills	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Well-constructed Suspenseful Read	Fairsteins heroine, Alex Cooper, prosecutor in charge of Manhattans Sex Crimes Unit, returns once again with sidekicks Detective Mike Chapman and Detective Mercer Wallace.  With a rape prosecution against defendant Andrew Tripping on her plate, Alex becomes concerned when she feels that the victim, Paige Vallis, a thirty-six-year-old investment banker, hasnt been entirely forthcoming.  Frustration becomes Alexs constant companion, as she seems unable to interview Andrews young son, Dulles, who was present during the alleged rape.<br />    With her own decades of experience in the position held by protagonist Alex, Fairstein enlivens this novel with a sense of realism compounded with both the difficulties and triumphs of the career of a prosecutor, as well as the close relationships formed with the police detectives, a prosecutors closest allies.  <br />    And when Alex begins investigating the murder of a poverty-stricken McQueen Ransome, an elderly woman in Harlem, she learns that McQueen had led quite a fascinating life, dancing around the world and later becoming mistress of the infamous King Farouk of Egypt.  And according to Spike Logan, a graduate student interviewing her about her life experiences, Queenie helped herself to some of Farouks rare collection of valuables when she left his palatial home.  <br />    As the crimes against Paige Vallis and McQueen begin to form a connection, Alex encounters some frightening moments of her own, as she is stalked in Manhattan and at her home on Marthas Vineyard.  With clues mounting in the continuous investigations of these two crimes, Alex begins to fear for her life in this craftily constructed novel replete with mystery and suspense.	2004-01-22
US	44498121	R3MUTZPH4QHP3V	0743436679	460904465	The Bone Vault	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Stand-out Novel of Suspense	Fairstein once again draws on her own experiences with protagonist Alexandra Cooper, who works as the head of the Sex Crimes Unit of Manhattan D.A.'s Office, a position previously held by the author.  A party at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art soon leads to a murder investigation when director Pierre Thibodaux enlists Alex's help to find out why an ancient Egyptian sarcophagus, awaiting shipment to Egypt from a New Jersey pier, inexplicably contains the well-preserved remains of a young woman, not an Egyptian princess as presumed,  but a twenty-first century woman.  <br />    When the photograph of the deceased woman identifies her as Katrina Grooten by Thibodaux's assistant, Cooper and Detective Mike Chapman attempt to discover who would have had access to the sarcophagus in which she was buried and why anyone would have wanted the young museum employee dead.  Working at the Cloisters, where the Met housed its medieval art, Katrina was part of a project that included the Museum of Natural History in a joint bestiary exhibit studying ancient monster type beasts.  <br />    While the varied descriptions of the museum exhibits and the vastness of the holdings may serve for dry reading, Ms. Fairstein keeps the pace flowing with her study of the interpersonal relationship between Detective Chapman and Alex, in an especially touching reminiscence of the aftermath of September eleventh.  Fairstein's first-hand knowledge of the Manhattan D.A.'s office allows her to imbue her main character with realism, as she chronicles Alex's complex and ever expanding caseload.  This truly stand out read will have readers reaching for more Alex Cooper novels and eagerly anticipating future ones.	2004-01-20
US	44498121	R1ALY1LIWZDWLV	0399150730	996286807	Truth or Dare (Krentz, Jayne Ann)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Smoothly Plotted Whispering Springs Novel	Ms. Krentz's latest is another chapter in the Whispering Springs saga, as interior designer Zoe Truax and her new husband, Ethan, try to make a go of their fledgling marriage.  While Zoe competes with fellow designer Lindsey Voyle for a decorating gig, her psychic powers lead her to some disturbing conclusions, as she witnesses some negative energy in a model home she is helping design.  Several plotlines carefully mesh together, as friend Arcadia fears that her supposedly dead husband may find her, Zoe searches for the source of her psychic episodes, and Ethan becomes the target of a murderer.  Yet readers will not only be attracted to the smoothly transitioned story line-the characters are both believable and likeable, making this second Whispering Springs novel(after LIGHT IN SHADOWS) a must read.  One can only hope that Ms. Krentz's literary pursuits will include more novels in the Whispering Springs series.	2004-01-02
US	44498121	R2H44LCYSENLKY	0553584413	876323830	My Favorite Thief	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Captivating Historical	Third in Ms. Monk's series that began with THE PRISONER, this latest read focuses on Miss Charlotte Kent, ward of the Marquess of Redmond, who, while at a social function, stumbles upon The Dark Shadow, a clever burglar, in the process of stealing jewels.  As a youngster, forced to steal by her long absent father, Charlotte sympathizes with the thief and becomes his willing hostage as she helps him escape detection.  Though he was cloaked in a mask, Charlotte later recognizes her abductor as none other than Harrison Payne, Earl of Bryden.  <br />    With the release of her felonious father, Archie, from prison, Charlotte fears for the safety of her family, when Archie threatens to harm her family if she doesn't pay him the outrageous sum of five thousand pounds.  Fearing for the safety of those close to her, Charlotte refuses to ask her ward for the money, and her home for indigent women has barely enough income from donors to cover necessary expenses.  Charlotte's bold request of Harrison to steal jewels to help pay off her father changes the tenor of this novel, as Harrison quickly becomes enamored of this partially lame woman with her quiet reserve.  <br />    But a burglary gone awry has Charlotte wondering if Harrison is the true legendary burglar or if he has another agenda.  As circumstances bring them closer, both physically and emotionally, fate takes an unusual twist, as these two unlikely lovers seek solace in one another.  Ms. Monk's original story line, coupled with very likeable characters, gives this novel star quality.	2003-12-30
US	44498121	RFW4EOL0QOGU	0553803484	307659188	The Murder Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Chilling Novel of Suspense	Charles Todd ventures into this stand alone novel after critically acclaimed success with his Ian Rutledge series.  In this midst of World War I, in 1916, young Francesca Hatton returns home to the Valley from London when her grandfather, Francis Hatton, has a stroke.  With the death of her grandfather, Francesca is left alone, as her five cousins all previously perished in the War.  And at the heart of the novel is a Murder Stone, where Francesca and her cousins played as a child, the same stone which her grandfather's will requests that she send to Scotland.  When Richard Leighton descends upon the Hatton estate, claiming that Francis Hatton was responsible for the disappearance and murder of his mother when Richard was but a child, Francesca's innate defense of her beloved grandfather soon wavers, after she discovers he owned two other estates that she knew nothing about, one of which was a home for orphans.  With the arrival of fortune hunters in the guise of a Mr. Walsham and a Mrs. Passmore, claiming to be Francesca's former nanny, the plot thickens, as Francesca seeks to discover more about the grandfather she adored.  Fast paced twists and turns keep the reader enthralled until the novel's chilling, though somewhat unsatisfactory conclusion, bestowing upon the reader yet unanswered questions.	2003-12-24
US	44498121	R2XTS2582GMQ4B	1551667363	475927242	The Snow Bride	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Healthy Dose of Holiday Cheer	Prolific romance author Debbie Macomber brings readers a new Christmas tale, complete with a trip to snowy Alaska.  Tired of being taken for granted by her boss and love interest, Brad Fulton, Jenna Campbell throws caution to the wind and travels to Alaska to meet her on-line pen pal Dalton Gray.  But when her flight lands in Fairbanks, and Dalton isn't there as planned, her surly seatmate, Reid Jamison, agrees to take her to Beesley, Dalton's hometown, until he discovers that Dalton is the man she is meeting.<BR>Because Dalton jilted Reid's sister Lucy, Reid \\"kidnaps\\" a furious Jenna and takes her to his home in Snowbound.<br />   Humor and romance ensue as Reid and Jenna find themselves fighting an unlikely attraction between this burly pipeline worker and a sunny California girl, as a snowstorm forces them to maintain an air of civility in Reid's humble cabin.  Quirky old-timers Palmer and Addy add comic relief to this fluffy Christmas confection, especially when Brad, Dalton, and Jenna's often married mother, Chloe, all show up in Snowbound.  Whether one is snowbound or not, Ms. Macomber's latest provides welcome holiday cheer, away from the hustle and bustle.	2003-12-20
US	44498121	RZJYWPR6A30CA	0345447409	149850483	Until Dark	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Terrific Suspense	Suspense is never in short supply when a serial killer targets soccer moms near Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.  When FBI agent Adam Stark asks sketch artist Kendra Smith to use her artistic skills to provide a composite of the suspect, she agrees despite her previous romantic involvement with Adam.  <br />    As the murders continue, the suspect is able to alter his appearance, making him more of a threat.  And in an unusual twist, Agent Stark discovers that the victims are all wearing  gold cross necklaces and hair clips similar to Kendra's.  The suspense continues to build and becomes multidimensional when the serial killer leaves a clue relating to the murder of Kendra's brother Ian over a decade ago.   While the romance between Adam and Kendra seems underdeveloped, the chilling murders, complete with the astounding conclusion, transform this novel into a pulse-pounding read.	2003-12-09
US	44498121	R3FJH3QDEI5VO8	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Compelling Romantic Suspense	Not only is Linda Howard's latest novel filled with suspense and sizzling attraction, but the thematic element of emotional anguish throughout this read gives this novel a multidimensional quality.  Milla Boone's life is almost perfect at the novel's onset, as she adores both her physician husband David and their six-week old son Justin.  But a trip to the marketplace in Mexico where they are living ends in disaster when Justin is stolen from her arms, and she is stabbed in the kidney.  <br />    Fast-forward ten years when Milla has founded Finders, an organization dedicated to helping locate missing persons.  Because of Milla's single-minded determination to find Justin, her marriage ended in divorce just a year after her son's disappearance. Milla's sorrow at the loss of her son is a palpable thing, ever present in her life, only somewhat dimmed when she is able to locate another missing child.  <br />    When an anonymous tip mentions Diaz, Milla travels to Mexico, believing that he may be the man who stole her child.  Through her encounters with Diaz, Milla learns that he had nothing to do with Justin's disappearance but is a paid assassin, working for both the Mexican and U.S. governments, and he has agreed to help her find the men responsible for Justin's kidnapping.  An unlikely connection between two lost souls blossoms into an attraction that neither Milla nor Diaz can deny.  <br />    While the careful reader will soon discover the likely suspects in Justin's disappearance, the continued suspense, coupled with the mystery surrounding Diaz, gives this novel a cloak and dagger effect.  And the heartfelt anguish that surrounds Milla in her search for Justin gives rise to the compelling conclusion in this read, most likely Ms. Howard's best effort to date.	2003-11-19
US	44498121	R305ZL4RL2CGXJ	0312301995	724784491	The Distant Echo (Mcdermid, Val)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Superb Thriller	Award winning British author Val McDermid chronicles a murder at St. Andrews, Scotland in 1978 and the long-lasting effects twenty-five years later.  Returning home from a late night party in St. Andrews, college students Tom, Alex, David, and Sigmund, stumbled over the snow and onto the blood-soaked body of Rosie Duff, a barmaid at a local pub.  Though medical student, Sigmund \\"Ziggy\\" tried to staunch the flow of blood, Rosie was dead by the time Alex returned with help.<br />    While the narrative may seem lengthy, every bit of it shows how the discovery of Rosie's body caused the lives of these four men to spiral out of control, never to be the same again.  Ziggy's homosexuality is revealed, causing a rift with his friends David and Tom.  Tom finds salvation and later becomes a minister.  Alex seeks solace with David's younger sister, Lynn, whom he later marries.  David later marries a much younger Helene and distances himself from his family.  And at the crux of this fractured friendship is the thought that each man believes that one of the others may have been responsible for murdering Rosie.<br />    Fast-forward twenty-five years, when two of the four friends are killed under suspicious circumstances.  Though Alex suspects that someone is taking revenge for Rosie's murder, he cannot convince the former officer assigned to the case, Jimmy Lawson, that his family's lives are in danger.  Racing against the clock to find the true identity of Rosie's killer before any more murders are committed, he encounters many obstacles, the least of which is the fact that evidence relating to Rosie's murder has mysteriously disappeared.<br />    The ever present suspense constantly leaves the reader guessing and wondering as to the identity of Rosie's killer.  And while the revenge killings twenty-five years later seem very cut and dry, nothing is truly as its seems.  Ms. McDermid has spun a very twisted tale, the culmination of which will leave the reader stunned in this expertly crafted thriller.	2003-11-12
US	44498121	RV12TZS5IG2SE	0399150889	291900082	Tribeca Blues	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Taut Suspense	In this third installment in Fusilli's Terry Orr series, Fusilli explores Orr's quest for vengeance for his wife's death five years earlier.  As a P.I., Orr is still hunting the mentally ill Ray Weisz whom he believes pushed his infant son's stroller onto the path of a New York subway train causing his wife Marina to follow, plunging both to their deaths.  But his quest his put on a temporary hold when friend Leo dies, and Terry and his teenaged daughter Bella travel to The Big Easy for Leo's funeral.<br />    Taut and complex, Fusilli's tale is full of unexpected curves, especially when Orr discovers from an eyewitness to his wife's death, that she was kissing an unknown man, and Weisz possibly tried to stop the stroller's ominous descent onto the subway tracks.  Not only does this unexpected disclosure stun Terry, it alters his quest for vengeance and allows him to open up to patient girlfriend Julie.<br />    At the request of his deceased friend Leo, Orr tries to locate Leo's long absent wife Loretta, whom Leo believes caused financial disaster in their New York restaurant business, forcing Leo to buy the pathetic bar he owned until his death.  But Loretta somehow ties into the circumstances surrounding Marina's death, and Orr isn't sure anymore who was responsible for Leo's financial demise.<br />   Fusilli has penned a novel that constantly hovers in the gray, where there is no black or white, no right or wrong, and many of the characters are constantly crossing the line, especially Terry, as he attempts to seek closure in the death of his wife.  The tightly written plot line will leave even readers unfamiliar with his series eagerly seeking a sequel.	2003-10-19
US	44498121	R2NW2HU3SI2WAE	0743245423	732518745	Last Car to Elysian Fields: A Dave Robicheaux Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Non-Stop Suspense	Detective Dave Robicheaux is back again, though in the somewhat quieter community of New Iberia, Louisiana, away from his bad memories of The Big Easy.  Living alone in a rented house, with his step-daughter away at college, he begins investigating a recent attack on his friend Father Jimmie Dolan, a somewhat renegade priest whose latest cause is a campaign to shut down drive-through daiquiri shops.  <br />    But the violence against Father Jimmie is just the tip of the underbelly that Dave and old friend and P.I. Clete Purcel soon discover.  Beginning the investigation into the fifty-year-old disappearance of Junior Crudup, a Creole who vanished while working on a prison work gang at Castille LeJeune's mansion, Dave finds that ex-IRA member Max Coll is a hit man ordered to kill the good priest, and former love interest Theodosha Flannigan can't be trusted.   Burke weaves a tangled web with his cast of characters especially when the owner of the daiquiri shop that served an under aged girl killed in a car accident is found shot to death in the shop's parking lot.  And the weapon that killed the shop owner is registered to William Guillot, a builder with connections to Merchie Flannigan, husband of Theodosha, daughter of Castille LeJeune.<br />    Think complex, multifaceted, and fascinating suspense-it's all there in this latest installment in the Dave Robicheaux series that connects the wealthy good old boy Castille to the likes of porn producer Fat Sammy Figorelli.  Readers are likely to eagerly anticipate the next installment in this series with its well-developed characters and endless twists and turns.	2003-10-18
US	44498121	R27ARB3PQS07KM	0399151060	728441185	Remember When	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Contemporary Romance Meets Futuristic Romantic Suspense	Nora Roberts combines her skills as a contemporary romance author with her alter ego, J.D. Robb, who writes futuristic romantic suspense in this single two-part novel.  Part I involves Laine Tavish, attractive owner of a small Maryland antique shop.  But when her father Jack's ex-partner Willy tracks her to her business before he is killed in a traffic accident, Laine finally realizes that her past as the child of a con artist has reared its ugly head.  Private investigator Max Gannon also meets Laine, as he believes that she may know where Jack hid the diamonds stolen in his most recent heist.  In this crafty mix of suspense and romance, Max and Laine become allies personally and professionally as they try to discover where Willy might have hidden the diamonds during his brief visit to Laine's shop, as they must also elude Alex Cross, the mastermind of the heist who wants to recover all of the diamonds.  <br />    Fast forward to year 2059 when Lieutenant Detective Eve Dallas is investigating the murder of a woman who was house-sitting for her friend, Samantha Gannon, an author who wrote a book about the meeting of her grandparents, Max and Laine, and their investigation into recovering the diamonds, though the one quarter belonging to Alex Cross was never found, and he died in prison.  And when Samantha's cleaning lady is found murdered, Eve and wealthy entrepreneur husband Roarke believe that the murders are somehow connected to the missing gems, as they seek to locate the whereabouts of Cross' son. No holds barred suspense, terrific romance between Eve and <BR>Roarke are carefully combined with references to the technological advances in the not too distant future.	2003-10-16
US	44498121	R1FPDYHUV87I17	0743453484	492214240	Beachcomber (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Slizzling Romantic Suspense	Ms. Robards is at the top of her game with her latest novel  packed with a touch of humor, plenty of steamy romance, and eerie suspense.  Philadelphia attorney Christy Petrino is hoping to get some semblance of normality back into her life after she learns that her former fianc Michael, head of her law firm, is using his business as a front to lauder mob money.  With a promise to mobster Uncle Vince to make a delivery of a briefcase at Ocracoke Island, North Carolina, Christy hopes to free herself and her mother and sisters from the mob's undue influence.<br />    Poor Christy soon realizes that not only is the mob after her, but a serial killer wants her dead after she sees his latest victim along the beach shortly before the killer slits the victim's throat.  With the help of buff beach neighbor Luke Rand (who is secretly an FBI agent), Christy manages to escape the deadly clutches of the killer in several pulse-pounding episodes.  Feeling guilty for using Christy as bait to snare Michael, Luke tries to avoid his attraction to her while attempting to get along with his fellow agent and polar opposite, nerdy Gary.<br />    Christy's assertion that someone is watching her is never ending as she feels that she can't even trust the local sheriff to protect her.  Feeling safe only in Luke's arms, the two embark on a sizzling affair that threatens to go bust when she discovers his true identity.  Fast-paced thrills and chills with sensual romance will keep readers glued to the pages, despite Luke's endless assertions that he can't understand why other bikini clad women don't attract him as Christy does.	2003-09-15
US	44498121	R2U44XWFZ40TYF	031298460X	529940744	Complete Abandon	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Sizzling Sensual Romance	While Ms. Holt is rapidly achieving fame in the romance genre, it is clear that her sensual romances are not just an abundance of love scenes with a little plot added.  In her latest, she very credibly integrates romantic interludes between an unhappy viscount and a deceased vicar's daughter with the caring nature that also binds the two in friendship.<br />    Though Emma Fitzgerald decides to ask John Clayton, Viscount Wakefield, to rescind his eviction notices, she never thought she would agree to sexual interludes with him in exchange for his rescission powers and his visits to the tenants.  But agree she does, and the two soon learn that there is more to their relationship than the sensual promises of the bedroom.  And while Emma is a thoroughly refreshing heroine in a subgenre where most young virginal females are submissive, she is no simpering miss, as she barely earns her keep for her invalid mother and young sister caring for neighbors and delivering babies in the village.  <br />    With sensual love scenes between John and Emma amidst their verbal sparring, the plot continues at a fast pace, as John must determine the nature of their relationship before he returns to his mistress in London.  Though the new local vicar's sensual proclivity for young girls seems a little over the top, the ever evolving romance between the two lovers is as entertaining as it is steamy.	2003-09-13
US	44498121	R233KF4D7AH1LZ	0399150560	200095985	Blindside (FBI Thriller)	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Fast-Paced Thriller	Though well-know for her many historical novels, Ms. Coulter has engendered many fans with her contemporary Sherlock and Savich series.  Married FBI agents Lacey Sherlock and Dillon Savich take somewhat of a back seat in this latest Coulter novel, but they play an important part, nevertheless.  When friend and former FBI agent, Miles Kettering is devastated when his six-year-old son Sam is kidnapped, Sherlock and Savich are soon on the case, especially when Sam miraculously escapes the Tennessee cabin where he was hidden by his captors.<br />    Discovered running in the rain by local Sheriff Katie Benedict and her young daughter, Keely, Sam is quickly brought to safety in Katie's home where his father and Savich arrive soon after.  But the suspense is far from over, as the kidnappers are relentless in their pursuit of Sam, despite the combined protection of several law enforcement agencies.<br />    Together, Katie, Miles, Savich, and Sherlock discover that one of the kidnappers has a sister living nearby, Elsbeth McCamy, the wife of the ultra-pious Reverend McCamy, pastor of the Sinful Children of God Church.  While the good Reverend and his wife repeatedly deny any involvement in Sam's kidnapping, the coincidence of the close proximity of the kidnapper's cabin to his sister's home is too obvious to be ignored.  <br />    Thrilling suspense continues with a bizarre twist when the purpose behind the kidnapping is finally revealed.  With the ending packing another punch, true to Ms. Coulter's white knuckled novels, the read isn't over until the final page is written, as unbeknownst to lovers Miles and Katie; danger lurks around the next corner.	2003-08-22
US	44498121	R3KU8SKHI2HT11	0743456335	753332767	A Man to Call My Own : A Novel (Lindsey, Johanna)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spicy Twin Romance	Prolific romance author Johanna Lindsey's latest novel is a sizzling romance with a healthy dose of humor added to the plot.  When identical twin sisters Amanda and Marian Laton are forced to move from their Massachusetts home after the death of their father in the late 1800's, they are unprepared for the adventure at their Aunt Kathleen's Texas ranch.  Chad Kincaid, ranch employee and son of a neighboring rancher escorts the women on their final leg of the journey, convinced that Amanda is the desirable one, while Marian is the bookish shrew.<br />  But Chad's first impression of the two women is categorically wrong, as an unlikely twist finds Marian dressing dowdily so that men won't be caught in the beauteous Amanda's net if they dare to notice Marian first.  Add in Chad's confusion over the fact that he thought that he made love to Amanda (though it was really Marian), and he just might be honor bound to marry the self-centered Amanda, unless he can persuade Spencer Evans to beat him to the altar.<br />  Though the plot theme that a young Victorian era woman must marry to claim her inheritance is hardly a new one, Ms. Lindsay has put an interesting slant to this idea with the immense greed of Amanda versus the solitude seeking of Marian.  Spicy romance between Chad and Marian keeps that pace at a fast clip, as Chad discovers the beauty and caring soul Marian keeps hidden behind thick ugly spectacles. (thebestreviews.com)	2003-07-30
US	44498121	R2AKRZ35E2WW5B	0892967811	256182121	Cyanide Wells	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific Mystery With Well-Developed Characters	Award winning author Muller takes readers on a journey filled with deception, secrets, and murder.  Matt Lindstrom is owner and operator of an excursion boat in Port Regis, B.C. when an anonymous phone call informs him that his wife, Gwen, who disappeared fourteen years prior, is alive and well in Cyanide Wells, California.  This news brings back painful memories for Matt, who was implicated in his wife's disappearance, resulting in his estrangement from friends and family.<br />  Matt's trip to California takes him to the newspaper office of the SOLEDAD SPECTRUM, where he acquires a job as a photographer, under the assumed name of John Crowe.  Through research, Matt discovers that Gwen, known in Cyanide Wells as Ardis Coleman, wrote a Pulitzer Prize-winning article in the SPECTRUM, on the murder of a local couple.  Through his new employment, Matt sees Ardis from a distance and becomes friendly with her partner, SPECTRUM owner and editor Carly McGuire.<br />  When Ardis suddenly disappears, taking her daughter Natalie with her, Carly soon learns of Matt's true identity, and an unlikely alliance forms between the two, as together, they attempt to solve the mystery of Ardis, who has led all those who love her on a road filled with lies and deception.  Ms. Muller's ability to write fully dimensional characters amidst a very suspenseful read with complex twists and turns creates a first rate fast-paced mystery.	2003-07-27
US	44498121	R22ES9ZXXD74WX	0743233468	912119362	Bare Bones: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fascinating Suspenseful Mystery	In her sixth Temperance Brennan novel, art once again imitates life as Kathy Reichs writes about forensic anthropologist Brennan, who, like Reichs, is employed in North Carolina and Quebec.  When Tempe goes to a picnic near Charlotte, North Carolina with her college-aged daughter Katy, Boyd, Tempe's estranged husband's dog, digs up skeletal remains.  With the discovery of human bones amidst bear remains, Tempe's anticipated vacation with Montreal detective Andrew Ryan, comes to a sudden halt.<br />    With the beach trip on the back burner, Ryan joins Tempe, as she investigates the burned remains of the baby belonging to a drug dealer's girlfriend, a fiery plane crash, and more bear and human remains in a latrine pit near Boyd's initial skeletal discovery. While the various investigative sites seem unrelated, Tempe's intuition tells her that they are all somehow connected, as she comes across a complex weave of drug trafficking and illegal exporting of animal parts.  <br />    Ms. Reichs' technical knowledge of forensic anthropology adds fascinating information to this novel chock full of murder, mystery, and a dash of romance.  With so many twist and turns and death threats against Tempe, this novel is a sure winner with fans who want a no-holds barred suspenseful mystery.	2003-07-21
US	44498121	R15ZOO3R68HYES	0399150536	110785101	Fireplay	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Compelling Suspenseful Novel	Third in Ms. Chazin's Georgia Skeehan series, the latest installment finds this fire marshal for the FDNY resurrecting ghosts from her past, including the fire where her father was killed and the reappearance of her long-lost boyfriend, the father of her eight-year-old son Richie.  But the crux of the novel centers around a fire at trendy Caf Treize, that resulted in the death of two veteran firefighters and led Georgia and her partner, Randy Carter, to investigate `Freezer', aka Michael McLaughlin, former member of the Irish gang, the Westies, and all-around extortionist.  <br />    McLaughlin is as street-wise as he is savvy, as he turns to the FBI to protect him from the FDNY, claiming to help the feds find Coyote, a ruthless member of the Green Warriors, who use terroristic acts to aid their leftist environmental causes.  While Georgia's sense of justice is sometimes at odds with her duties as a fire marshal, she shows a greater maturity in this latest read than in previous novels, especially when she is asked to go undercover as Freezer's girlfriend, much to the dismay of her boyfriend and boss, Mac Marenko.<br />    Georgia must face some difficult choices when she finds out that her ex, Rick, might be involved with the mob and seems to know the members of the Green Warriors.  Could he be a suspect in a recent arson, and does she want him to meet the son he abandoned eight years ago?  <br />    Georgia, the tough but loving woman and fire marshal, gives the reader insight into the emotions involved in the valiant profession of firefighting, even as she vows to arrest McLaughlin for his horrific crimes. Always suspenseful and compelling, Ms. Chazin's novel, written with her inside knowledge of the FDNY, puts Georgia on a par with April Woo, Leslie Glass' NYPD detective in her critically acclaimed April Woo series.	2003-06-27
US	44498121	R3MQNE0IKXMPBT	0060527048	585986262	To Marry the Duke	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining Historical	In her first title for Avon Books, Julianne MacLean explores England of the late nineteenth century, when aristocrats were compelled to wed American heiresses to fill their rapidly depleted coffers.  When Sophia Wilson entered the \\"marriage mart\\" in England, her mother expected her to acquire a husband with a title, while she wished to marry for love.<br />    Though initially attracted to James Langdon, the Duke of Wentworth, Sophia is warned away from his dark brooding looks by a fellow American heiress who previously landed an earl.  While the budding romance between James and Sophia begins as physical attraction, they each appeal to the other as their friendship develops, something that is often omitted in many historicals.  Though James desires Sophia, his determination not to let his passions rule his life like his father's cause him to proceed with extreme caution towards his wife after they are wed.<br />    Predictably, strife ensues when James keeps Sophia at a distance, and she is determined to show her love to him despite his aloofness.  But their formality towards one another exudes just enough romantic tension as to propel the story line, not overtake it.  Readers can eagerly look forward to the next installment in this series with Sophia's younger sister, Clara, being the next American heiress heroine.	2003-06-25
US	44498121	R1Q8KBKA9XPTJ1	0451208153	976461395	The Iron Rose	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting Twist on the Pirate Romance	The early seventeenth century finds Ms. Canham's characters adrift on a ship at sea in a novel that cleverly combines historical accuracy of the nautical world of the times with a new twist on the pirate romance.  This time, the privateer is the heroine, Juliet Dante, only daughter of Simon Dante, the infamous Pirate Wolf, and the hero is the pampered English Duke of Harrow, Varian St. Clare.  <br />    Coming to the rescue of the English ship Argus on which Varian is sailing, Juliet's ship, The Iron Rose, captures the Spanish ship Santo Domingo as it attacks the Argus.  Side by side in battle, Juliet and Varian complement one another, but conversation leads to arguments as they struggle to fight their attraction amidst a witty play on words and a test of both strength and will.  When Juliet sails to her island home, introducing Varian to her privateer parents and brothers, their intellectual sparring leads to an affair, the impact of which neither expected.  And when Varian realizes that his mission to promote the King's quest for peace between England and Spain is a foolish one, he must decide whether to turn tail or join the ranks of the privateers in outwitting the deceitful Spaniards.<br />    Though this read takes some time to gain momentum, the depth of feeling between the protagonists coupled with the vividly created scenes of seventeenth century life at sea leaves the reader completely immersed in a world with mortal danger on the high seas and lusty romance in the bedroom.	2003-06-23
US	44498121	R1JJSRNSQVSAD9	0060542667	440243219	The Water Dancers: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Compelling Historical Fiction	While the thematic element of star-crossed lovers is definitely not a new one, Ms. Gamble's characters are written with a depth of feeling that is revealed with a subtlety that makes this novel stand out from others of similar plot-line.  The reader journeys back to 1945, on the shores of Lake Michigan, where seventeen-year-old Native American Rachel Winnapee works as a maid at the summer home of the March family.  Her duties change quickly when the younger March son, Woody, comes home from World War II, with part of one leg missing, and the promise of morphine shots to fill his upcoming days.<br />    At the request of Mrs. March, Rachel becomes Woody's nurse, and it is her zest for life that lifts Woody out of his depression and begins their secret affair, their blissful moments of happiness written with an expression of joy that is suitably absent from the rest of the novel.  With Woody slated to take over the bank when his father retires and marry the ethereal blonde Elizabeth, there is little future for Rachel and Woody, when their summer of bliss suffers an abrupt ending.<br />    Spanning almost three decades, this read is a testament to the enduring power of real love amidst the trappings of cultural differences and prejudices.  And the compelling force that gives impetus to this novel is the gradual revealing of long buried lies and secrets proving the humanity of all the players, regardless of wealth or social status.	2003-06-19
US	44498121	R1C11KZ4VKELRK	0399150439	893493496	Naked Prey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Taught Suspenseful Mystery	Sandford's latest finds his hero Lucas Davenport working for the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension with his long-time boss Rose Marie Roux working as the head of the state's Department of Public Safety.  In his capacity as political troubleshooter for the governor, Davenport and partner Del head to the northwest corner of Minnesota where a black man and his white girlfriend were discovered hung from a tree.<br />    The small town of Broderick, Minnesota, has secrets of its own, with many of the residents very close-mouthed about the operations of the very successful local auto body garage and the charitable \\"nuns\\" who make frequent trips across the Canadian border. Tough twelve-year-old Letty West, who carries a twenty-two and sets muskrat traps, is the only person who witnessed a vehicle near the hanging site and leads Lucas and Del around town.<br />    Taut and twisted plot lines intensify, as the \\"lynching\\" murder seems to be solved, but the body count continues to rise.  The dark, wintry Minnesota night forms the perfect backdrop for the continuing crime spree, as Lucas and Del make the breathtaking connection between several criminal enterprises.  Eerily suspenseful, Mr. Sandford's latest is the most recent in a long-line of tightly woven and brilliantly composed cop mysteries.	2003-05-26
US	44498121	R2831D3IA5D4IR	0743437128	661143336	Wild Orchids: A Novel (Deveraux, Jude)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Captivating Novel	Author Jude Deveraux is no stranger to romance novels, as her romance books have appeared on many a bestseller list over the years. With her latest, she deviates from the quintessential romance between two beautiful people to diverge into a tale of a mysterious murder in a small North Carolina town.  <br />    Famed author Ford Newcombe has settled into a small town to try to begin writing again after the death of beloved wife Pat.  He fires assistant after assistant, as they never seem to measure up to his standards.  After meeting Jackie Maxwell at a local party, he decides to offer a job to this very forthright woman who is currently a research assistant for a local professor.  When her wedding to fianc Kirk becomes a no-go, she shows up on Fords door to take the job he has offered.  Though Ford has been researching ghost stories to write his next book, he is intrigued with Jackies tale of a woman who was covered in stones because she was in love with the devil.<br />    Fords journey to discover the truth behind Jackies unlikely tale leads the pair to the small community of Cole Creek, North Carolina, where Jackie lived as a young child.  Taking up residence in a Victorian-style home, Ford continues his research while Jackie assists him and indulges in her passion for photography.<br />    The true crux of this read is the mystery behind the death of the devil-loving woman.  As Jackie and Ford penetrate the townspeoples silence concerning this legendary tale, Jackie discovers some surprising truths about herself especially her visions of tragedy before they occur.  And romance is merely a byproduct of their close association as the twenty-something fitness enthusiast Jackie finds herself attracted to the famed writer Ford, despite his less than washboard abs and kooky extended family.  A truly unique and captivating read, Ms. Deverauxs latest will hold the readers attention despite the somewhat anticlimactic conclusion.	2003-05-21
US	44498121	R2GBVO3J7OMGTF	1551666731	427563954	Home Before Dark	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Expertly Crafted Novel	Many a historical romance author has tried to make the crossover to contemporary fiction.  In rare instances, authors excel equally in both genres, and Susan Wiggs is one of those rare exceptions.  With her latest novel, she explores the bond between sisters Jessie Ryder and Luz Ryder Benning.  <br />    After almost sixteen years traveling the globe on photojournalism assignments, Jessie is back to see her beloved sister Luz, three nephews, and fifteen-year-old niece Lila, who is actually the baby Luz and husband Ian adopted from Jess who took off years ago.  Through the pain of separation and untold secrets, the sisters try to fit into each other's lives again, as Luz and Ian must decide whether to tell rebellious Lila the truth of her birth.  And even Jessie has some secrets regarding Lila's conception.  Amidst this very realistic glimpse into one family's drama is the surprising romance Jessie finds with local pilot and widower Dusty Matlock, who has a tragic story of his own.<br />    Expertly drawn characters set against the beautiful Texas landscape are the life force of this compelling novel.  Not only is the reader entranced by the unearthing of past secrets, but present-day secrets come to light in this thought provoking read with a unique and believable view of one family's ability to stay together despite personal trauma and tragedy.	2003-04-27
US	44498121	R10SI8RJOYUE8W	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Expertly Written Mystery	In the summer of 1954, U.S. Marshal Teddy Daniels and his partner Chuck Aule travel to the Ashecliffe Hospital for the criminally insane on Shutter Island off the coast of Massachusetts.  They are searching for Rachel Solando, a patient who mysteriously vanished out of her locked room.  Stonewalled at every turn, the marshals are frustrated when one of the facilitiy's leaders, Dr. Cawley, refuses to honor their request for patients'and doctors' records.<br />  With the eerie reappearance of the missing Rachel, a violent hurricane ensues. As  Teddy searches for patient Andrew Laeddis, the firebug who started the fire that killed the marshal's wife Dolores, he learns that  no one remembers having seen or heard of this missing sixty-seventh patient.  With a sense of foreboding, Teddy's dreams are expertly woven into his reality as he discovers the nature of the hospital's use of hallucinogenic drugs.  And when his partner goes missing, Teddy is determined to find Chuck and flee the island.  Fearing for his sanity, Teddy begins to suspect that no one can be trusted, and he may never be able to leave the island.<br />  With a nightmarish reality, author Lehane ensconces the reader into the very heart of a mental hospital gone awry, with experimentation on human subjects.  Actual events are intertwined with hallucinations in a fast moving plot that leaves the reader wondering how many patients actually descended into insanity after entering the hospital.  Brilliantly executed, this novel will leave the reader transfixed with its breathless conclusion.	2003-04-24
US	44498121	RE9CMFHO8WDW4	0312265778	414570088	With a Vengeance	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intense Suspense	In a profession where there is no such thing as a dull day, Maggie O'Brien is an emergency room nurse as well as a medic for the St. Louis SWAT team.  The child of a violent ex-cop father, Maggie refuses to carry a gun when on duty as part of the SWAT team, choosing instead to employ her negotiating skills.  <br />    Compassionate and smart, Maggie is a credit not only to her gender, but to her profession as well. And when crazy Montana Bob holds a wounded police officer hostage after threatening to boil a neighborhood cheerleader, it is Maggie who comes to the rescue.  But when Bob dies of superficial injuries, Maggie begins to wonder if the certifiable former FBI agent wasn't hit with a moment of sanity when he divulged some information shortly before he died.<br />    Readers cannot help but feel an affinity for Maggie as she jumps headfirst into every situation, whether it is an ER trauma, or a shakedown of a meth lab.  And while her on again off again relationship with childhood pal and cop Sean Delaney adds a touch of romance, it is the issue of whether or not Maggie can trust him, that gives their relationship a very real feel.<br />    At the core of Maggie's hectic life is her belief that someone is killing the less than stellar citizens of St. Louis, including delusional Bob.  Some patients, including those under her care, have died for no apparent reason, and many of them were on the List, a running list of names kept by the emergency room personnel naming the people really getting on everyone's bad side.  Intense and highly suspenseful, Maggie's search for the killer of killers earns her pariah status in both her jobs and puts both her reputation and life on the line, as she is considered a possible suspect.  Readers beware as you ride alongside Maggie in her gripping search for the killer(s) among her friends and lover as no one is above suspicion. ...	2003-04-21
US	44498121	R200S1B3NZ7U21	0743206061	789567455	The Second Time Around (Clark, Mary Higgins)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Suspenseful Thrill-Ride	As the author of twenty plus novels, Mary Higgins Clark tirelessly invents new plotlines amidst the theme of murder and suspense.  In her latest, Nicholas Spencer, the charismatic leader of the medical research company, Gen-stone, is presumed dead when his plane crashes into the ocean.  <br />    On assignment with WALL STREET WEEKLY, reporter Carley DeCarlo is trying to discover why Nick apparently embezzled funds from his own company and misrepresented to investors the apparent success of Gen-stone's cancer vaccination.  In a unique twist to this story, Carley tries to be empathetic to Lynn Spencer, Nick's widow and Carley's estranged stepsister.  Add in a sub-plot where Lynn's mansion is burned, and she barely escapes, and you have a novel where no one is above suspicion.  Did Nick fake his own death knowing his company was going belly up, or was his demise carefully orchestrated by moles wishing to take over his company?  <br />    Intensely gripping, Ms. Higgins Clark's latest leads the reader on a roller-coaster ride of thrills as Carly uncovers clues in Nick's disappearance using her gently probing investigative skills.  And as she realizes that her discoveries might have put herself and others in harms way, her rekindled romance with an old high school crush might quite possibly save her life. ...	2003-04-18
US	44498121	RK9KHKMXNR6IM	0399149848	93143308	Birthright (Roberts, Nora)	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Captivating Romantic Suspense	Nora Roberts' prolific generation of novels has run the gamut from witchcraft on the New England coast to futuristic mysteries sizzling with attraction.  Her latest endeavor carries uniqueness all its own, with its crafty combination of suspense and sensual romance.<br />    Archaeologist Callie Dunbrook's current assignment is to supervise a dig at an Antietam Creek, Maryland construction site.  Finding human remains over five thousand years old, Callie needs more help at the site.  When that help comes in the form of her sexy ex-husband Jake, Callie is furious with her supervisor, even as she continues to fight her attraction for Jake.  While locals are angry at their loss of employment with the construction halted, seemingly innocuous pranks turn into murderous \\"accidents\\".  Coinciding with the archeological find is the claim by local businesswomen Suzanne Cullen, that Callie is really her long-lost daughter, stolen as an infant.  <br />    Tough, beautiful, and brilliant, Callie is the epitome of a strong female lead character.  Her romantic sparring with Jake creates a sexual tension that keeps an even pace with the mystery, as Callie discovers that the accidents at the site may be related to her unearthing of her past including an illegal adoption ring.  Earthy, compelling characters are the driving forces behind this mystery/romance, entrancing the reader from the get go, in a package that is quite possibly Ms. Roberts' best effort to date...	2003-03-31
US	44498121	R2BGII6TUSFDK2	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining Historical Fiction	Known for his terse, simply worded mystery novels, Patterson deviates greatly from the norm to pen this historical tale of romance and deception in eleventh century France.  With a first person account of poor innkeeper, Hugh De Luc, Patterson probes the force behind a relic of the crusades and the loss of lives when greed consumes those who desire this relic.<br />    Leaving behind his young wife Sophie, Hugh journeys east to join the crusaders in their quest to quench the Turks.  With the passage of two years until his return, Hugh discovers that his wife is missing, and a band of marauders murdered the son he never knew. His vengeful path leads him into the arms of Lady Emilie, a lady in waiting to Anne, wife of Stephen of the duchy of Boree.  Training as a jester, Hugh travels to Treille to confront Lord Baldwin, the man he holds responsible for Sophie's abduction.  With his wit and charm, Hugh infiltrates himself into Baldwin's home as a jester and subsequently leads the people of his hometown to defend their property.<br />    Mystery fans beware, for the only mystery element present here lies in the discovery of Sophie's tormentor and the knowledge of the relic that Hugh doesn't even know he carries.  But his fast-paced tale, devoid of eleventh century language, proves true to Patterson's quick plot summaries and enigmatic characters.	2003-03-28
US	44498121	R2X64SX42NGUUB	0060185708	680960032	The Reluctant Suitor	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Flowery Historical Romance	Hailed by many as the founder of historical romance, with her debut novel THE FLAME AND THE FLOWER thirty years ago, famed author Kathleen Woodiwiss woos readers once again with her latest, a tale of passion and deception.  Embarking on a familiar plotline, this regency-era novel tells the story of beautiful Lady Adriana Sutton, the twenty-two -year-old contractually bound in marriage to Lord Colton Wyndham, the seventh Marquess of Randwulf.  <br />    Sixteen years after rejecting this contract of marriage, Colton, the war hero, has returned to claim his title upon the death of his father.  Unbeknownst to him, his sire reinstated the contract during Colton's lengthy absence.  While Adriana has every intention of fulfilling the ninety days of courtship required under the new contract, Colton isn't sure he wants to be manipulated once again when he learns of the latest agreement.  Admittedly, this novel is off to a slow start, with the lack of romantic tension between Colton and Adriana.  And the standard villain of this novel in the persona of Roger Elston, is originally portrayed as more of a nuisance than any real threat.<br />    No one excels more at flowery prose than Ms. Woodiwiss, and it is her style of writing that holds the reader's interest at the somewhat sluggish start of this novel.  When the romantic sparks begin to fly between Colton and Adriana, secondary plotlines keep the reader hooked with implications of an unknown pregnancy and suspicious murders.  And the loose ends of the novel are neatly tied together making this if not a superb read, a very good one.	2003-03-25
US	44498121	R1Q22V8PP4QDX0	0446528412	35363538	Wages of Sin (Williamson, Penelope)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Captivating Suspense	A former author of historical romances, Penelope Williamson has successfully transitioned to suspenseful mysteries.  Her latest revisits 1927 New Orleans where two teenaged girls have gone missing, and one has been found murdered.  Detective Daman Rourke solved this murder when he arrested Titus Dupre, a young black man soon to be executed for his crime.  <br />    Rourke's investigation of another disturbing murder leads him to an abandoned macaroni factory where he finds local priest Father Patrick Walsh dead from crucifixion . Disturbingly, Father Walsh was a priest at the parish where Rourke's brother Paulie also serves.  Rourke's life is further complicated by the fact that his lover, film star Remy Lelourie, is receiving obsessive mail and phone calls from an unknown source.  In a bizarre twist, young women keep disappearing, and all of those young women that have either disappeared or been murdered happened to belong to a club that idolized Miss Lelourie.<br />    Daman Rourke's sultry New Orleans is brought vividly to life, from the bordellos of the quarter to the mansions of the high society as they divest their hidden secrets.  Steamy love scenes between Damon and Remy underscore the free spirit of the 1920's, especially after the repressed sexuality of the Victorian era.  And as the two mysteries seem to become intertwined, the suspense is brought to a fever pitch reaching the novel's stunning conclusion.	2003-03-24
US	44498121	R25DJB5CE1ZWC6	0553584405	969258472	The Wedding Escape	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enthralling Historical	Following the tender love story of THE PRISONER, Ms. Monk revisits Haydon and Genevieve Kent's family of orphaned children in her latest novel, which tells the tale of Jack Kent.  Though some twenty years have passed since Jack became the ward of Haydon and Genevieve, the Marquess and Marchioness of Redmond, he is still unable to come to terms with his inauspicious beginnings, from imprisonment for petty thievery to moments of extreme poverty.<br />    When American heiress Amelia Belford chooses Jack's carriage to escape from her arranged marriage to the aging Duke of Whitcliffe, Jack feels compelled to abet her in her journey to London where she believes her true love waits.  While researching the sabotage of his fledgling shipping company, Jack also discovers that Amelia's \\"true love\\" no longer pines for Amelia or her money. <br />    As Jack and Amelia escape to his home in Scotland, he reveals his well-hidden tender nature to her, and she proves that she can survive without the trappings of her wealthy upbringing.  The depth of their mutual love instills within Amelia the confidence to obtain employment, and Jack is finally able to realize that his unspeakable childhood has not forever tainted him.  But the journey to true love is never a straight path, as Jack and his siblings don disguises on their mission to recover Amelia when she returns to her parents' London abode.<br />    <BR>   Ms. Monk's affection for history shines through in her carefully researched accurate details of the late nineteenth century.  With the addition of a subplot concerning the whereabouts of Jack's biological father, she has penned a novel whose depth is enhanced by its realism.  Add in a cast of enigmatic characters and a moving and sensual romance between two unlikely lovers, and you have a novel that is sure to garner more fans for Ms. Monk, whose novels never fail to enthrall her readers.	2003-03-05
US	44498121	R2G11A626EGLB5	0399149759	396777762	Flashback (Barr, Nevada)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Page-turning Mystery	Park ranger Anna Pigeon returns once again, as she flees a marriage proposal from Sheriff Paul Davidson to take a temporary assignment as a supervisory ranger at Dry Tortugas National Park on Garden Key, one of the multiple Floridian islands off the Florida mainland.  <br />    With the disappearance of fellow ranger, Bob Shaw, one evening, an ocean search with the team of Anna, Bob's wife Teddy, maintenance men Daniel and Mack, and boaters Cliff and Linda leads to a new discovery.  On the ocean's floor is a recently exploded boat, and amongst the wreckage are Bob's shoes and pieces of his patrol boat.  As the team continues to search for Bob amidst dangerous underwater conditions, new questions arise in Anna's mind as to the sunken boat's expedition.<br />     While each present day chapter ends with a cliffhanger, the alternate chapters offer mystery as well with their focus on letters written by one of Anna's ancestors.  Anna's sister Molly has sent her letters that were written to their great-great grandmother from her sister, Raffia, whose husband Joseph was a Union Army captain at Fort Jefferson, on Tortugas, when the Fort housed Union prisoners.  Raffia and her teen-aged sister Tilly's aid to a Confederate prisoner led them to become acquainted with the infamous Dr. Mudd, convicted of aiding John Wilkes Booth in the assassination of President Lincoln.  With the insufferable Florida heat and fear of possible prison uprising, Raffia's letters result in a mystery of their own, which Anna feels compelled to solve.<br />    Ms. Barr vividly brings to life the surrounds of Garden Key, both in present day and in its past as a Civil War era prison.  With twists and turns around every bend, the reader is led on a white-knuckle ride echoing the ghosts of bygone days as well as their impact on the world of the twenty-first century.  Nevada Barr is certain to engender new fans of her Anna Pigeon novels with this latest page-turner.	2003-03-02
US	44498121	R1EI5SGRO2V48Y	0399149260	352444935	Final Justice (Badge of Honor)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Entertaining Police Procedural	Author of numerous military novels, W.E.B. Griffin continues in his ever-popular Badge of Honor Series with this latest tale of newly minted Sergeant Matt Payne of the Philadelphia P.D.s Homicide Division.  Though he never knew his biological father, a cop who was killed in the line of duty, Matt wants to follow in his footsteps after earning his degree at University of Pennsylvania.  Nicknamed, The Wyatt Earp of the Main Line for his repeated involvement in shooting incidents, Matt finds himself assigned to investigate the apparent rape/murder of a young woman.  <br />    Well-versed in the internal workings of The Philadelphia Police Department, Mr. Griffin can quote both statutes and correct police procedure.  While admittedly the reading of such can be extremely dry, Griffin has integrated statutory law into the fast paced story line involving the meshing of the lives of the members of the P.P.D. <br />    As Matt investigates the young womans murder, he also becomes apprised of a fast food robbery gone badly and the parallel to real life tale of a convicted murderers extradition from France.  Though Matts intelligence earns him promotion to sergeant, his connections to the hierarchy of the P.P.D., through his powerful attorney stepfather, make for interesting interaction between the mayor and various police commissioners.  And lets not forget young Paynes sexual escapades with an attractive female and detective to his association with a films stars pretty assistant.  <br />    Teeming with accurate details and plenty of interdepartmental rivalries, Mr. Griffins latest is a thrill ride from the get go.  W.E.B. Griffin is quickly proving himself the one of the foremost authors of police procedurals of the twenty-first century.	2003-02-24
US	44498121	R2DXS7E78E7MKF	0671525751	187406427	Someone to Watch Over Me : A Novel	Books	5	8	14	N	N	First-Rate Romantic Suspense	After a two-year wait, Ms. McNaught latest has finally arrived, to the delight of romance readers and McNaught fans.  While Ms. McNaught initially achieved critical acclaim for her historical romances, she smoothly made the transition from historicals to contemporaries.  And with this recent novel, she has imbued the romance with suspense that will keep the reader turning the pages late into the night.  <br />   Broadway star Leigh Kendall is traveling to a late night rendezvous with her husband, Logan Manning, at a cabin he recently purchased for them in the Catskills.  With the snowfall making the roads slippery, Leigh is forced off the road by another car, and her car plunges down an embankment. Miraculously, she survives the accident with few injuries but is bewildered when the police and hospital staff have no knowledge of her husbands whereabouts.  <br />    When Leigh returns home to her Manhattan apartment, she relies on the support of her housekeeper Hilda and part-time borrowed bodyguard, OHara.  Michael Valente, a business associate of Logans and purported criminal, attempts to offer Leigh his friendship and support as the police search for the missing Logan.  As Leigh begins to warm to Michaels charm, she treasures his loyalty to her, especially when the police discover that Logan was not the loving husband he pretended to be.  <br />    Anyone who has ever read a McNaught novel knows that she has a stellar ability to encompass in totality the attraction between the main protagonists. Without using much explicit language, the romance sizzles with the subtlety of the characters body language and carefully worded innuendo.  Not only does Leigh find love with the strong yet caring Michael Valente, but also Lieutenant Mack McCord begins romancing Detective Samantha Littleton.  <br />    Through the use of fascinating and yet multi-layered characters, Ms. McNaught has created a novel that is as strong in its use of romantic elements as itis in suspense.  With a backdrop of the cutthroat world of New York Theater and financial empires, the list of suspects in Logans disappearance is as varied as it is long.  While the romance keeps the pages filled with attraction, the mystery keeps the suspense building until the final page is turned on this first-rate novel.	2003-02-18
US	44498121	R9J2T29BXB1DD	0515134643	306078346	Love me Forever	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Touching and Passionate Historical Romance	Author Donna Fletcher transports the reader back to sixteenth century Scotland in this tender tale of love between a battle-scarred warrior and an emotionally damaged widow.  When widowed Brianna Cameron, sister of clan leader Ian Cameron, is injured in a coach accident, Royce, a man bearing the facial scars of battle, rescues her.  As both Brianna and Royce spend time in his cottage recovering from their injuries, their trust of one another gradually evolves into love.  As their time of idyll comes to a close with the arrival of one of Ian's men searching for Brianna, Royce decides to accompany her to Ian's home.  But Brianna's reunion with her brother is met with some dissention, as she learns Royce's true identity.   Can she still trust what her heart reveals to her?<br />    The true mastery of this romance commences with the gentle caring touches Royce bestows on Brianna, as he cares for her during her convalescence.  And the ensuing love scenes are both sensual and touching, as the two lovers discover their mutual attraction.  The gradual evolution of their romance instills believability into this relationship and its ability to endure upcoming challenges.<br />    While Brianna fears that their love is too good to be true, her marriage to Royce is marred by the reappearance of her abusive husband, Arran.  Royce steals her safely away to his home, while Ian decides Arran's punishment for his betrayal of the Cameron clan.  Time will tell whether Brianna and Royce's relationship can survive the reappearance of her \\"dead\\" husband.<br />    Sensual and romantic, this novel is a beautiful tale of a once-in-a-lifetime love.  Donna Fletcher is quickly establishing herself as a gifted writer of historical romance.	2003-02-16
US	44498121	R1ZPHT9OYAQB5K	0425188299	363819894	A Grave at Glorieta (Harrison Raines Civil War Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fast-Paced Civil War Mystery	Author Michael Kilian continues his Harrison Raines series, as the Secret Service agent and his partner Joseph Leahy journey to New Mexico to investigate reports of a rebel invasion there.  Though the two agents become separated in New Mexico, they are both in close proximity to Glorieta Pass where the Union, under the command of Major Chivington, drives the Confederate forces back and burns their supply wagons.  <br />    Noting the rebels' retreat while trying to free Leahy from jail where he is accused of being a horse thief, Harry makes the acquaintance of Isabel Almaden y Cortes, daughter of Don Luis, a Union hero at Glorieta.  When Don Luis is murdered at his home, Harry seeks to discover the identity of the murderer.  Passions run high, as shades of gray blur lines of loyalty, and someone seems to be searching for the gold that Harry discovered abandoned near the bodies of a man and woman.<br />    Gripping and intense, the pace of this novel increases in speed as Harry and Indian friend Tatou are attacked when they unearth the grave of Don Luis near Glorieta.  Inspired by the actual 1862 Battle of Glorieta Pass, this novel brings into focus a clear picture of the division of familial loyalties and subterfuge that were so much a vital part of the U.S. Civil War.	2003-02-14
US	44498121	R1LPRDXGKB2E16	0553584898	3755952	Almost a Princess	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Suspenseful Regency Romance	Historical romance author Elizabeth Thornton never fails to shine as she fills her novels with passionate romance amidst a compelling mystery.  This latest regency romance reacquaints readers with the Devere family, specifically the Earl of Castleton, Case Devere.  Having served England in the Spanish campaign, Case is presently aiding the Special Branch in investigating a murder similar to those committed by Gideon Piers, a renegade army officer who supposedly died years ago.  <br />    The search for links to Piers leads Case to the Ladies Library in London where he questions Miss Jane Mayberry about her friendship with Letty Gray, Piers' sister.  Unwittingly, the earl is drawn to the bookish Miss Mayberry, whose independent nature both confuses and attracts him.  Pulling the reader into the storyline, this author follows the unorthodox courtship of Case and Jane, as suspense mounts and secrets are revealed.<br />    When crimes are committed against those close to the earl, it becomes clear to him that Jane could become the next victim.  Will his skill, honed on the battlegrounds of Spain, save Jane and himself before it is too late?  An admirable heroine and suspense around every corner make this novel one of the best from an author whose books should be purchased based on her name alone.	2003-01-28
US	44498121	R1ORPTWHJMLQK	0316341118	537841158	Forever: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Compelling Historical Sci-Fi Novel	Writer Pete Hamill, New York City resident, and writer for various NYC newspapers, combines elements of fantasy in this work of historical fiction that tells the  tale of one man's immortality.  Born in 1723, in Ireland, Cormac O'Connor is the son of an Irish father and Jewish mother.  After both parents have died at the hand of the Earl of Warren, Cormac is determined to avenge their deaths. Aboard ship journeying to New York City to find Warren, he meets Kongo, an African sold into slavery.  And Cormac's kindness to the young African grants him with the slave's friendship.  <br />    Amidst the slave and Irish rebellion in New York in the 1740's, Kongo grants Cormac the gift of immortality in a cave, per the condition that he always remain on the island of Manhattan.  Leaving Manhattan would assure him immediate death and  ban him from entrance into the Otherworld.  Only when he meets and makes love in the cave to a dark-skinned woman with spirals on her skin can Cormac journey to the Otherworld.  <br />    Hamill has deftly portrayed the hopelessness of both the African slaves and the Irish indentured servants of the mid-eighteenth century, even as he reminds readers of the rarely-mentioned slaves who fought in the Revolutionary War without reaping the benefits of abolition.  While New York's past comes alive, no one could accuse Hamill of being a romantic, as his vivid descriptions of a nineteenth century New York with no running water and epidemics of cholera leave little room for the poetry of love.  This sense of realism gives an earthy feel to this novel whose only downfall seems to be that the reader is never really given much insight into Cormac's personality.  But overall, this read is a fascinating combination of sci-fi and history culminating on that tragic day of September 11, 2001.	2003-01-26
US	44498121	R194FTTNB2NF7T	0743453468	422431630	Whispers at Midnight (Robards, Karen)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Sultry Southern Suspense	Karen Robards is truly a master of the romance genre, alternating from historical to contemporary novels.  Her latest suspenseful novel takes the reader to the small town of Benton, Georgia, in the heat of the summertime.  <br />    Carly Linton has returned to her hometown to claim the old home she inherited from her deceased grandmother.  Ready to start anew, she has journeyed with friend Sandra from Chicago, as they plan to open a bed and breakfast leaving behind memories of painful divorces.  But the first familiar face Carly sees is Matt Converse, now the town sheriff, and then, the childhood friend who slept with her after prom and ignored her afterwards. It is said that there is a fine line between love and hate, which would clearly explain Carly's simmering anger, even after a twelve-year period.  <br />    When the two women take up residence in the old mansion, they decide to install new locks and a security system, convinced that a burglar was present the day they arrived.  The suspense builds, as both Carly and Sandra still seem fearful of the dark old home, and the possibility of an intruder seems both imminent and certain.  <br />    But the real crux of this read is the attraction between commitment-phobic Matt and Carly, delivering some really steamy love scenes.  Still, the likelihood of a lasting relationship between the two seems to strain credulity.  Though they practically grew up together, the evolution of their personalities over the past twelve years seems to be forgotten as bedroom scenes begin before they even get to know each other again.  <br />    That withstanding, the suspense packs a powerful punch amidst the sultry Georgia summer nights.  Hints of dead bodies, crimes of long ago, and a murderer following Carly catapult this read into a sizzling page-turner.	2003-01-16
US	44498121	R170YCFIJUCGVB	0399149384	814568729	Light in Shadow (Whispering Springs)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Terrific Romantic Suspense	Crafty romantic suspense writer Jayne Ann Krentz is back again, this time with a tale chock full of greed, deceit, and unlikely romance.  Interior designer Zoe Luce is quietly living her life in Whispering Springs, Arizona when a client asks her to redesign the master bedroom of his residence.  But Zoe sometimes feels things that others don't, and the walls in this room \\"scream\\" that something terrible happened there.  <br />    Deciding to hire a P.I. to trace the whereabouts of the client's ex-wife, Zoe hires Ethan Truax, who just took over his uncle's one-man P.I. business.  Two more unlikely lovebirds would be hard to find, but Ms. Krentz credibly shows that while they are physically attracted to one another, their underlying integrity is what makes their relationship click.  <br />    And finding the locale of the missing ex-wife is just the beginning of this suspenseful novel, as Zoe hires Ethan to discover who is blackmailing her to prevent them from revealing that she changed her name after she and friend Arcadia Ames escaped from the rest facility, Candle Lake Manor.  Committed to the Manor by her deceased husband's family, Zoe is intent on staying free until she can expose her brother-in-law's role in her husband's death at the next board meeting.  <br />    With believable romance, spellbinding suspense, and several intertwined plotlines, this latest from author Jayne Ann Krentz is one of her best yet.	2003-01-03
US	44498121	R1IGUXGN4K1B0E	0515134392	406782058	Twisted Shadows	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Sizzling Romantic Suspense	While Ms. Potter achieved success in romantic fiction through her historicals, she has proven her versatility with her recent foray into romantic suspense.  In her latest, she explores organized crime and Tracy Merritta's escape from her life as wife to the heir of the powerful Boston Merritta family.  Thirty-four years later, Samantha Carroll is working at her western art gallery in Colorado when two men enter and inform her that her biological father, Paul Merritta, is on his deathbed and wants her to fly to Boston to meet him.  <br />    But Sam had no idea that the recently deceased man she grew up calling \\"father\\" was not her biological relation.  When Merritta's henchmen also reveal that she has a twin brother, Nick, Sam can't understand why her mother, Patsy Carroll (Tracy Merritta)  has lied all these years.  And when Sam is injured at her home in a bungled burglary attempt, she decides to go to Boston to meet the brother she never knew.  <br />    Sparks fly when Sam meets FBI agent Nathan McLean, who helps save her brother's life after a car accident.  While Nick has distanced himself from the family by taking the surname Merritt, he and Nathan have been at loggerheads for years over Nick's alleged mob ties.  As Sam is understandably torn between loyalty to her newfound brother and her attraction to Nathan, her angst is portrayed credibly and not overdone.  <br />    When the attempts on her life become more frequent, Sam must trust Nathan to keep her from harm's way as they take a perilous journey  to find Sam's missing mother.  Fraught with danger at every turn, this read grips you with its suspense and holds your attention with the sizzling romance.	2002-12-23
US	44498121	R2O8P1772G6SQU	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Spellbinding Futuristic Possibilities	Crichton's latest, a combination of scientific technology with fictional futuristic possibilities, is a thrill ride from start to finish.  Jack Forman, househusband, is looking for another job while taking care of his three children.  Wife Julia is a vice president at Xymos, where they are using nanotechnology, manufacturing molecule-sized devices, such as cameras, that can be inserted into the bloodstream to view all areas of the body. Convinced Julia is having an affair, Jack notices her tremendous mood swings and late working hours.  <br />    Hired as a consultant at Xymos to fix problems on a program that he designed, Jack travels to their manufacturing facility in the middle of the Nevada desert.  Switching identities from the neglected suspicious househusband, Jack suddenly becomes immersed in technology gone awry.  Lack of proper venting at the plant has caused particles to be released into the environment, where swarms are created and seem to be multiplying.  The technological aspects of this novel become more complex, adding depth to this read which increases in pace, thereby immersing the reader in Jack's fight to destroy the predatory swarms before they destroy him and others.  The plausibility of Crichton's nanotechnology transforms this brilliant novel from mere sci-fi into a frightening look at future technology.	2002-12-18
US	44498121	R2QV5MMDTLDLYY	0804119724	447468621	Into the Night (Troubleshooters, Book 5)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	INTRIGUING ROMANCE	Chock full of sizzling romance, military heroes, and captivating suspense, Ms. Brockmann's latest is as good as they come.  White house staffer Joan DaCosta is arranging for the President to visit a California naval base to honor the bravery of the SEALs of Team Sixteen, when they were on a clandestine mission in Afghanistan.  Upon meeting SEAL Mike Muldoon, Joan is smitten with his good looks, even as she tries to dismiss her attraction to him because of their six-year age difference.  <br />    But Mike is as tenacious in his pursuit of Joan as he is in his military training, and she finds it difficult to resist his charm, especially when he aids Joan in her visit to her reclusive mentally ill brother.  Joan tries to avoid interacting with Mike when he agrees to play escort to the President's lovely but over imbibing daughter Brooke.  Joan and Mike are thrown together again, as she tries to implement damage control with regards to Brooke's drunken behavior.  Could Mike and Joan's one night together ever result in a more lasting bicoastal relationship?<br />    Not only is the romance scintillating, but subplots of terrorism and a relationship between an Arab American and a neglected Navy SEAL's wife add depth to this novel.  Add in the flashbacks to the World War II love between Joan's grandparents, and you have a read that is as fast-paced as it is intriguing.	2002-12-16
US	44498121	R1HBVMRV3ZGXB1	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fast-Paced Mystery	Mr. Patterson's enigmatic D.C. detective, Alex Cross, is back again.  This time, his childhood friend and fellow detective, John Sampson, has asked for Alex's assistance.  Ellis Cooper, a friend of Sampson's from his army days in Vietnam, has been convicted of a horrible triple murder, just outside of Fort Bragg, North Carolina.  While DNA and other substantial evidence definitely points to Cooper, Sampson is convinced that his old friend could not have committed such brutal crimes.<br />  As the two detectives travel to North Carolina, they are unable to uncover enough substantial evidence, which could exonerate Cooper.  But his time on death row is slowly running out, and Cross and Sampson begin searching for similar murders where seemingly innocent military men have been convicted of heinous crimes.  Their search leads them from the campus of WestPoint to the shores of New Jersey and the Georgia woods.  Danger seems to follow their every move, as they encounter the stonewall of silence imposed by the army as well as the brutality of some very determined killers, whose crimes seem to be rooted in the jungles of the Vietnam War.<br />  Patterson's first person account as told by Alex Cross details the seemingly normal life of Alex and his family juxtaposed against the seamier side of his life as a detective.  As usual in Patterson's novels, the hunt for the true killer mastermind is a fast-paced roller-coaster ride full of twists and turns as both clues and the body count mount.	2002-11-19
US	44498121	R37PXYZOW4VIE	0440237130	25356256	Whirlwind Affair	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enthralling Historical	Fans of Ms. D'Alessandro will recognize Lord Robert Jamison as the younger brother of Austin, the Duke of Bradford, and the hero in a previous novel, THE WHIRLWIND WEDDING.  Lord Robert's assignment is to escort the lovely American widow, Mrs. Alberta, \\"Allie\\" Brown, to Bradford Hall to visit her childhood friend Elizabeth, Austin's very pregnant wife.  Unbeknownst to Robert, Allie sailed to England to return the last of her lying deceased husband's ill-gotten gains, namely an old ring engraved with a family crest.  <br />    The cool composed widow informs Robert that she needs to attend to some business in London before journeying to Bradford Hall but fails to disclose the nature of the business.  While her secretive nature is intended to put an emotional roadblock between Robert and herself, the two are nevertheless, drawn to one another, amidst some rather dangerous London encounters.  And when impending danger to those around her forces Mrs. Brown to disclose to Robert the true purpose of her London journey, their emotional bond becomes stronger, even though Allie is resistant to ever trusting a man again. But Robert is not without secrets of his own.  Will his failure to disclose his past prevent the two from forming a bond in the future?<br />    Ms. D'Alessandro's unique style encompasses passionate romance with light-hearted humor, enthralling the reader to the very last page.  Believable characters with flaws and scars make this novel a true winner, not to be missed.	2002-11-18
US	44498121	R1S9HVWS50Z12H	0399149392	363923998	Chesapeake Blue (Quinn Brothers)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wonderful Return to the Chesapeake Bay	Long-time fans of Ms. Roberts will recognize her latest as the fourth installment in the Quinn family series set amidst the beauty of Maryland's Chesapeake Bay.  Seth is the youngest of the adopted Quinn brothers and the grandson of Ray, the man who adopted him.  But when Ray was killed in a car accident mere months after he Seth's mother Gloria sold Seth to him, the brothers Quinn stepped in to raise the emotionally damaged ten-year-old. <br />    Growing up amidst the lively Quinn clan, Seth is able to foster his love of art even as he aids his new family in the boat building enterprise.  Adulthood brings with it the promises of fame and fortune as Seth, the artist, takes a tour of Europe. To avoid demons of his past and revel in the security of family, he decides to return home to Maryland with the intention of making that his permanent home.   And while his charming good looks have heralded a beacon to many a young woman, he has never met anyone like Dru Whitcomb, a D.C. transplant who owns a local florist shop.  Dru's past relationships have taught her to be wary of men, but Seth seems to have a way of breaking down her barriers to begin to establish a relationship between them, only to find those demons knocking on his door again.<br />    Ms. Roberts has written a novel that immediately immerses the reader into its every page with a sense of realism that gives one the feeling of being a bystander in this small Maryland community.  The power of love is an often-used theme of this author, whether it be romantic love or strong bond of family and friends.  And a critical point employed in this novel, which puts Ms. Roberts in a league of her own, is the fact that while romance is a crucial part of the plot line, the sub-plots are not just an added attraction, but a major force in building the romance.	2002-11-11
US	44498121	R2FXAFG3PIWKC1	1590520432	387934481	True Honor (Uncommon Heroes, Book 3)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Enthralling Romantic Fiction	Increasingly popular author Dee Henderson has received critical acclaims for her romance novels with a Christian theme.  Her latest, book number three in the uncommon heroes series, is another winner, chock full of espionage, twisted plot turns, and a view of the life of a CIA agent.<br />    Darcy St. James has been retired from the CIA for two years, but when fellow agent Gabriel calls her back to service for one assignment, she cannot refuse.  Agreeing to meet former Russian spy, Sergey Alexandrov, at a Florida hotel, Darcy embarks on her assignment.  But when the meeting goes awry, Sam Houston,a Navy SEAL she just met, come to her aid. <br />    Darcy's views on retirement are suddenly and irrevocably altered when two days later, planes crash into the twin towers.  With the sudden deaths of some CIA colleagues added to the Trade Center disaster, Darcy decides to come out of retirement and help her former agency anyway she can.  Her intelligence efforts lead her to repeated encounters with Sam, and their relationship seems to flourish, despite time and distance constraints.  Can their relationship survive this war on terror, as they treasure the little time they can spend together?  <br />    Ms. Henderson has succeeded admirably in building stepping stones of romance and intrigue with a plot that thickens as the novel progresses.  Most fascinating is the bird's eye view of an intelligence agent's work, and the countless hours of investigation and surveillance that are essential when trying to locate the perpetrator.  Mixed in with the creative story line are scripture references that have direct bearing on the Sam and Darcy's lives.  Fans of Christian romance will be pleased with the characters' focus on their faiths.  And those readers of all romance fiction should find much to like in this enthralling novel where the biblical passages show a hidden depth of the main players.	2002-10-22
US	44498121	RPH2GON5OU5CU	0440237556	77429998	The Dark Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 5)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Excellent Time-Travel Romance	Quickly becoming the master of time travel romance, Ms. Moning follows KISS OF THE HIGHLANDER, Drustan's tale, with her latest work, the story of his twin brother Dageus MacKeltar.  Though Dageus traveled through time to save his brother, doing so for personal reasons was in violation of an ancient pact.  As punishment, Dageus is consumed with thirteen evil ancient beings that threaten to take over his soul.  Ironically, his only relief from the dark spirits occurs when he is engaged in sexual activity.  <br />    When Chloe Zanders' employer asks her to take an ancient book over to a client's New York apartment, she reluctantly agrees.  Dageus, the client, is absent when she first enters his penthouse and discovers among recently stolen museum artifacts,  other objects attesting to his sexual proclivity.  Caught snooping under his bed, Chloe is mortified with the appearance of Dageus, the most handsome virile man she has ever met.  His refusal to let her leave renders Chloe with unwitting feelings of attraction and bewilderment from this utterly fascinating man.  <br />    Helplessly falling under his spell, Chloe journeys with Dageus to visit his identical twin brother in Scotland. As Chloe and Dageus journey back to his sixteenth century world, she learns of the dark force that threatens to claim him and desperately hopes that with her love and help, they can defeat the evil that wants to consume his soul.<br />    Ms. Moning writes some of the most sensual love scenes in historical romance, and this latest read is proof positive of that fact.  Much to her credit, the sexual encounters are well integrated into the plot line and exude feeling, eschewing the gratuitous sex often found in romance novels.  This is quite possibly her best work to date, chock full of romance, time traveling suspense, and eerie mysticism.	2002-10-20
US	44498121	RI5VYSEG7GP9W	0446529532	392723784	Susannah Morrow	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating Historical Fiction	The year is 1691 in Salem Village, Massachusetts, and fifteen-year-old Charity Fowler's mother, Judith, is encountering difficulty in childbirth.  Lucas, Charity's father, must brave the weather to go to town to await the arrival of Susannah Morrow, Judith's sister.  Upon the death of Judith, Susannah acts as a mother figure to Charity and her six-year-old sister, Jude, while the baby Faith is nursed at neighbors.  <br />    But Charity once again befriends the girls that her mother had warned her away from.  Even as these girls pretend to practice harmless tricks and gather to whisper stories, rumors of witchcraft abound.  And when these same young women appear to be possessed by the devil, they begin pointing accusatory fingers at so-called witches with Susannah's name at the forefront.  <br />    The complexity of this tale is compounded by Charity's guilt over a secret her mother took to the grave as well as Lucas' inexplicable attraction to Susannah.  This crafty mix of fact and fiction eerily details the almost unbelievable widespread hysteria caused by the devious actions of a few young girls.  The true beauty of Ms. Chance's novel is that she has chronicled this story in such a way that shows that characters' actions are timeless and have repeated themselves in similar scenarios throughout history.	2002-10-20
US	44498121	RZ65FT3T7JHVT	0553801929	562039873	Dark Horse	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Page-turning Suspense	Elena Estes is a former member of the Palm Beach Narcotics Squad.  Leading a life of solitude at the guesthouse of a friend, she has spent the last two years reliving the nightmare that ended her police career.  Her unauthorized move at a drug bust resulted in the death of a colleague and life-threatening injuries for Elena.  <br />    But when twelve-year-old Molly Seabright asks for Elena's help locating her missing sister, Erin, Elena reluctantly decides to come to the young girl's aid.  Finding herself once again immersed in the Palm Beach equestrian world of her youth, Elena reinvents herself to become a woman in the market for a horse.  Her inquiries lead her to Don Jade, a trainer suspected of misdeeds in the past, and the man for whom Erin worked as a horse groomer before she disappeared.  <br />    Ms. Hoag's deft skill in creating mysteries provides readers with a whole host of suspects, all of whom seem to have something to hide.  Tomas Van Zandt is a Belgian horse dealer who preys on the naivet of young innocent women as well as older lonely ones.  Paris Montgomery is the too nice assistant trainer to Don Jade with pieces missing in her story.  And there is the dysfunctional Seabright family, Molly's stepbrother Chad who had a fling with Erin, much to the disappointment of his domineering father, Bruce. Molly's mother, Krystal, is a blonde kewpie doll woman who defers to her husband's every wish.  <br />    As Elena explores the various avenues available to her, she makes the acquaintance of a Detective Landry, who at first dismisses her interest in the case because of her past history with the police department.  As the clues and the body count mounts, he develops a reluctant respect and attraction for the brash Elena.  <br />    Ms. Hoag's first-hand knowledge of the bright and dark sides of the Florida horse world lends a unique credibility to this read.  As she develops the characters as possibly suspects, the suspense mounts carrying the reader ona quest for the answers to Erin's kidnapping.  Beware, the tale isn't over until it is over, with enough twists and turns to keep the reader up long into the night.	2002-10-14
US	44498121	R13CP75QDFN0VJ	0446527041	487696263	The Crush	Books	5	17	20	N	N	PageTurning Romantic Suspense	Sandra Brown delivers once again with this compelling tale of revenge and obsession.  Career criminal, Ricky Lozada, is stalking Dr. Rennie Newton, a brilliant and beautiful surgeon at a Fort Worth, Texas hospital.  A professional hit man, Lozada was acquitted of murder by a jury where Rennie was the foreman.  Though Rennie voted to acquit based upon the evidence, she was constantly aware of Lozada's incessant stare, which lead to his sociopathic conclusion that he and Rennie had some type of bond.<br />    When Dr. Lee Howell, a colleague of Rennie's, receives the promotion she wanted and then is subsequently murdered, Rennie becomes Detective Oren Wesley's prime suspect, especially when the Detective discovers that Rennie has been receiving roses and phone calls from Lozada.  Oren decides to bring in Wick Threadgill, a former Fort Worth police officer on indefinite leave.  Wick's desire to see Lozada pay for the murder of his brother has the potential to help Oren nail Lozada, as long as Wick keeps his temper in check.<br />    But with a classic Brown twist, Wick becomes enamored of Rennie, though she fights her attraction for him, alluding to secrets behind her sanitary life free of attachments of any kind.   And when Lozada discovers that Wick is interested in Rennie, the hit man's obsession becomes even greater, leaving a terrified Rennie wondering what his next \\"gift\\" will be.  <br />    Ms. Brown has succeeded in masterfully crafting characters whose depth is slowly revealed as she sheds light on their destructive pasts, i.e. Rennie's change from promiscuous teen to a solitary adult, Wick's derailment of the investigation into his brother's murder, and Lozada's resentment over his ill brother's preferential treatment.  The gritty reality of one woman caught between two enemies adds to the suspense of the novel taking the reader on a wild ride that you won't want to miss.  A true page-turner, this is romantic suspense at its very best.	2002-10-10
US	44498121	R32OJAY19SHX08	0345447174	793787087	Midnight Confessions	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Romance and Mystery Combined	Quickly becoming known for her intelligent historical romances, Ms. Proctor's most recent endeavor scintillates with forbidden romance and mysterious intrigue.  The summer of 1862 in occupied New Orleans is fraught with conflict as Yankee General Benjamin Butler appropriates housing and incurs the disdain of the people of New Orleans.<br />    Widow Emmanuelle de Beauvais decides to visit her parents' grave along with Henri Santerre, a doctor at the hospital where she works.  When a silver-tipped arrow kills him, the murder draws the attention of Union Major Zachary Cooper , Provost Marshal.  While initially drawn to the beautiful widow, Zach comes to admire her for her bravery and intellect as she continues on at the hospital despite the fact her knowledge and practice of medicine is scowled upon by members of her class.  <br />    As murders mount, and Emmanuelle appears to be the prime suspect, Zach falls helplessly under her spell.  But will she be the next victim, or is she really a consummate actress and murderer?<br />    Ms. Proctor has craftily combined suspenseful murder mystery with electrically charged romance.  While the Civil War era has been explored by many an author, Ms. Proctor deviates from the use of the southern belle heroine to focus on a stalwart, intelligent woman.  And she doesn't sugarcoat the unconventional behavior of some of the characters, thus creating believability that further enhances this read.  Ms. Proctor is a truly gifted writer whose books will sell based on the name of the author, alone.	2002-09-28
US	44498121	R1EI1IBAICHKI4	0743410602	166848421	Irresistible (Banning Sisters Trilogy)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Enthralling Historical	While author Karen Robards has successfully ventured back and forth from the sub genres of historical romance and romantic suspense, her primary strength still lies in historical romance.  <br />    Continuing in the saga of the Banning sisters, Ms. Robards explores the life of middle sister, Lady Claire Banning Lynes.  It is 1813 England, near Clair's home, Hayleigh Castle, when she finds herself hunted by would-be kidnappers and clinging to the side of a cliff overlooking the ocean.  But her descent to the beach is fraught with disaster, as she is mistaken for a spy and captured by Colonel Hugh Battancourt.  At first reluctant to believe that Clair is not the sought after Sophie Towbridge, changed circumstances force him to reevaluate his opinion.  <br />    Rarely do historical romance authors introduce heroines who fall in love with someone else while still entered into an unhappy marriage.  Ms. Robards has deftly handled this matter, rendering Claire a believable character, as a young woman who tries her best to resist Hugh's charms, though her marriage to David is a loveless one.  <br />    But Claire's resistance begins to wear thin as she is forced to share Hugh's cabin as they make the Channel crossing to France. While romantic tension mounts as quickly in their swaying cabin, the tension of a war torn country is all too apparent when the ship reaches French shores.<br />    Sensual love scenes, undercurrents of espionage, and the hope for another installment in this series, will leave the reader searching for future and past releases by this powerful writer of historical romance.	2002-09-26
US	44498121	R3M4LN0NE8B0CH	0515133655	489968932	Tempting	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Emotional Historical	In London in 1867, Simon Belleville is somewhat of an enigma, a truly self-made man, and no one acquainted with him would guess at his auspicious origins.  Only in his mid-thirties, he gained his fortune through hard work and clever investments, a far cry from his poverty-stricken childhood.  <br />    Heading up Her Majestys Morality and Vice Commission, he leads a raid on Madame LeBows brothel, where he discovers an abused woman in the attic.  Feeling compassion for the slight young girl, Christine Tremayne, he takes her into his home.  As the compassion turns to attraction, Simon begs his friend Margot to take Christine into her school for young ladies, as she may be a hindrance to his political career.<br />    But as the months pass at the girls' school, and Christine, the dairymaid, has a slow metamorphosis into Christine, the lady, she gains the attraction of a suitor who does not see her as marriage material.  Posing as his cousin, Christine journeys with Simon to his country estate where he assumes the role of tutor.  As his political aspirations war with his thawing heart, Simon must make some life altering decisions with regards to his feelings for Christine.  <br />    Ms. Tarrs credible historical research lends an air of believability to this read thereby making the characters come to life.  Steering away from the formulaic rake of a hero, this author has shown her hero with a very different, vulnerable side, that he has hidden to the world.  For a love story as magical as it is moving, Ms. Tarrs latest is hopefully, a portent of her novels to come.	2002-09-23
US	44498121	R26AKRU8OZEJ2G	0345453808	317621417	Killjoy	Books	4	2	7	N	N	Nail Biting Romantic Suspense	Like many romance authors, Ms. Garwood has turned her attention to the sub genre of romantic suspense.  Her successful transition has proven her skill and versatility as a writer, and this latest novel is no exception.  <br />    Though merely a data entry specialist for the FBI, Avery Delaney is very good at her job.  Her analysis of crime scene data actually enabled her to predict the next time and locale of a bank robbery.  Needing a break from her stressful job, she decided to join her Aunt Carrie, a successful Hollywood agent, at Utopia, a top notch Colorado Spa.  But when her Aunt fails to show at the expensive paradise, Avery meets someone else who is also looking for Carrie.  Believing that a hired killer, Monk Edwards, is after Carrie, John Paul has his own personal reasons for helping Avery find her Aunt before her time runs out.<br />    As the adventures of the Avery and John Paul unfold, Ms. Garwood deftly weaves into the mesh secrets of their pasts, especially Avery's.  Shot and left for dead by a boyfriend of her mother, Jilly's, eleven-year-old Avery miraculously recovers from her injuries but not without some deep emotional and physical scars.  Abandoned by Jilly as a  baby, Avery was raised by her grandmother and Aunt Carrie.  And John Paul's secrets are slowly revealed as his  military expertise becomes a presence when the pair tries to evade Monk's deadly bullets.<br />    Fans of Ms. Garwood will recognize John Paul as the brother of Theo, one of the main characters in her prior read, MERCY.  Brooding but sensitive, John Paul is the perfect ex-military operative, tough, but with a sensitive side that only the right woman can reveal.  With the sizzling chemistry between them, their race to find Carrie while eluding the clever Monk, is a nail-biting thrill ride certain to appeal to a broad range of fans of romantic suspense.  Readers searching for the true who-done-it type of mystery may be disappointed in this one as the suspense lies in the thrill of the chase and the connection between the players.	2002-09-20
US	44498121	R3IKMQP7VI64N7	0373292198	844266611	Border Bride (Harlequin Historical Series, No. 619)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Medieval Romance	Having once journeyed east to the Holy Land, Conway ap Ifan is once again in his Welsh homeland, posing as a bard and working for Empress Maud, Lady of the English, to try to maintain a peace and gain favor with the border lords should the Empress succeed the throne.  But at Glyneira, Con finds Enid, the girl from long ago that he has never been able to forget.  <br />    Thirteen long years has not dimmed his memory of this beautiful girl, now woman, with children of her own.  Though once promised to marry a prince, she is now the widow of the deceased owner of Glyneira, and may soon be the bride of Macsen ap Gryffith, a border chief.  While Enid is not immune to Con's charms, she recalls his wanderlust and desertion of her in past years.  And the powerful secret she holds in her heart may shatter her peaceful existence if Con lingers too long at Glyneira.<br />    Ms. Hale has definitely done her homework in this well researched historical ripe with vivid depictions of the dwellings of the times, as well as the customs and disputes for lands.  And the descriptive nature doesn't overshadow the romance and meshes well with the enduring love between Con and Enid.	2002-09-16
US	44498121	RQ7EUXCBWFQDY	0804119953	401355792	The Ways of Grace	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Touching Romance	Linda Frances Lee, best known for her emotion-filled historicals, ventures into the contemporary arena with this latest novel.  Looking out of his brownstone apartment late one winter night in Manhattan, Jack Berenger spies a weeping woman sitting alone on a bench.  Somehow, he feels drawn to this woman dressed in a wedding gown, who, for all appearances, seems to have abandoned her wedding.  As Jack ventures outside, he and the woman recognize a vulnerability in one another, and Jack leads her to his apartment, where a passionate night ensues.  <br />    Grace Colebrook, the crying bride, hardly recognizes herself anymore.  She abandoned her fianc at the altar, after having discovered him in flagrant delecto outside the church.  And she is certainly not a one-night stand type of girl and never even gave Jack her name when she left abruptly after their sizzling encounter.  Unbeknownst to Jack, she knows all about him, as she lives in the apartment above him, and was informed by a neighbor that he is an E.R. doctor at St. Luke's Hospital.  To top it off, her job at a toy manufacturing company comes to an abrupt end, and her socialite mother and sister continue to disparage her character and encourage her to reconsider marrying Walter, her errant fianc.<br />    As Jack continues to fight his attraction to Grace and painstakingly maintain control of his life, Grace embarks on a new business, even as she gains temporary custody of her orphaned seven-year-old cousin, Ruth.  Ms. Lee deftly addresses the emotions surrounding Jack and Grace as they learn to trust one another and redefine their relationship.  With Grace, readers find a likeable heroine, who is able to face adversity with both tenacity and charm.  Linda Frances Lee has successfully made the transition from historical to contemporary romance with the finesse of a truly gifted writer.	2002-09-13
US	44498121	RZUPSL1DKENX4	0312284683	347731978	Faking It	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Witty Romance	Best-selling author Crusie is back again with a witty novel replete with steamy love scenes and a humorous look at the ups and downs of relationships.  Matilda \\"Tilda\\" Goodnight is struggling to keep her family art gallery afloat as she is commissioned to paint murals for various private patrons.  <br />    Enter Davy Dempsey, con man extraordinaire, who wants the money that former lover, Clea Lewis, stole from him.  As Davy rents an apartment from Gwen, Tilda's mother, he and Tilda hit it off from their first encounter in a closet.  Tilda is at the home of Mason, a friend of her deceased father's, to locate a painting she forged years ago.  And Davy is there looking for his money that Mason's squeeze, Clea, snatched from him.<br />  Sounds zany-it only gets better with Tilda's sister, Eve, or \\"Louise\\", her alter-ego, that sleeps with Davy's fellow con-man and thief, Simon.  And there is Ford a \\"hit man\\" who is after Davy upon orders of Clea.  But Ford seems interested in Gwen, even though her teen-aged granddaughter, Nadine,discovered that he was under contract to take Davy out.<br />    Ms. Crusie's latest is another in a long line of fabulous reads filled with quirky relationships amidst a roller coaster ride of plot twists and turns and spicy bedroom scenes.  This one is definitely not to be missed.	2002-08-26
US	44498121	R2O24NVHFYMIND	0345440412	807327931	Magnolia Creek	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Emotional Historical	In the spring of 1866, with the aftermath of the Civil War, a destitute Sara Collier Talbot returns to Magnolia Creek, Kentucky.  She seeks shelter at the home of her sister-in-law, Louzanna Talbot.  Though Sara left Kentucky in disgrace over a year after discovering that her husband Dru had been killed in the war, Lou welcomed her back with open arms.  <br />    But Dru has in fact survived the war, and struggles with his damaged male pride when he learns that Sara hasn't spent recent years pining away at the Talbot family home.  For her journey west to Ohio resulted in a surprise that Dru never expected when he dreamed of his homecoming.  As Dru and Sara try to maintain a platonic truce, she hopes for his forgiveness even as he struggles with his attraction to her.  And when a devastating tragedy involves the whole town, Dru, the physician, and Sara, the healer, must employ all their skills to save as many lives as possible.<br />    Ms. Landis is a standout in the sub-genre of historical romance, not merely for her page-turning stories, but also because her novels are filled with the emotional angst appreciated by many romance readers.  Once again, this latest novel is filled with emotional conflict and an intense story line.  While the drama is not quite as compelling as previous reads, fans of Ms. Landis should not be disappointed.	2002-08-23
US	44498121	R2C2S6WC5ZPPI7	0553801406	988712650	Lake in the Clouds	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Carefully Crafted Historical	Third in the Bonner family series, following INTO THE WILDERNESS AND DAWN ON A DISTANT SHORE, this latest installment in Ms. Donati's historical saga lives up to reader's high expectations following the first two novels.  Set in the early 1800's in Northwestern New York State, Lake in the Clouds is the Bonner's family settlement.  Near the fictitious village of Paradise, west of Albany, Nathaniel Bonner, his second wife Elizabeth, and their eight-year-old twins Lily and Daniel, struggle to maintain their principles of equality amidst a world of hatred and prejudice.   Nathaniel's daughter Hannah, from his first marriage, is half Mohawk and half white and has apprenticed under the local physician, Dr. Richard Todd.  As Hannah journeys to New York City to learn the practice of administering the small pox vaccination, Nathaniel and Elizabeth must deal with a complication of their own.<br />    A fugitive slave woman is discovered on Lake in the Clouds, and freed slaves and friends of the Bonners, Curiosity and Galileo Freeman , ask for the Bonners' help.  Though their family may be at peril, the Bonners along with Hannah's aunt and uncle, Many- Doves and Runs-from-Bears, must decide what action to take next when a bounty hunter and childhood friend of Hannah's appears in Paradise. <br />    Rich historical detail enhances this novel, thereby creating realism that adds power to a story line involving the almost insurmountable obstacles faced by early American settlers.  Though romance is found in the ever-changing relationship between Nathaniel and Elizabeth Bonner, Ms. Donati's latest unveiling of the early nineteenth century world dispels notions of romanticism of the times.  With a multitude of life-threatening illness and lack of medical care, life on the frontier and in the cities was filled with peril.  But the enduring quality of this captivating tale lies in the strength of its characters, as they must face each new challenge with a reliance on friends and selfthat is not often found in today's world.	2002-08-20
US	44498121	R2PD7HWGRFA4UG	0345444825	229325241	The Wedding Dress: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lyrical Historical Novel	Reminiscent of a nineteenth-century journal, Ms. Ellis' tale of three sisters in 1865 Virginia is a nostalgic novel of war's devastation and triumphs.  Young war widows Julia Atwater Lovejoy and Victoria Atwater Whitmore are determined to elevate the spirits of their seventeen-year-old sister Claire.  They decide to spend their fall and winter days at Oak Creek Plantation piecing together a wedding dress for Claire with the hope that by spring, she will find a beau.  <br />    The arrival of Sergeant Monroe Tacy, wartime friend of Julia's deceased husband, William, elevates the spirits of the elder Atwater women as they see in Monroe a potential husband for Claire or an escort to the women's Savannah cousins.  But Monroe is more than the deliverer of a message from William as he helps the women of Oak Creek survive the winter with his hunting and repairing skills.  As the approach of spring brings new surprises, the Atwater women prove that they are no simpering southern belles.  <br />    This lyrical first person account of Julia's post Civil War life is enlightening of the emotional and physical repercussions of war without subduing the read with gory details.  <BR>Ghostly images give an ethereal quality to this novel highlighting the value of family and friendships, proving that love can survive even amidst the most difficult of circumstances.	2002-08-17
US	44498121	R2OKDQKAXALFVS	0385335350	230297888	A Summer to Remember	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Heartwarming Regency	Those readers familiar with Ms. Balogh's regencies will recognize Lauren Edgeworth, the jilted bride from ONE NIGHT FOR LOVE.  One year after Lauren's betrothed left her standing at the altar, she is determined never to wed and is currently a companion of the enceinte Duchess of Portfrey.  As members of the ton view Lauren as an ice princess, Kit Butler, Viscount Ravensberg, sees her as a challenge he cannot refuse.  A betting man, Ravensberg bets his fellow rakehell friends that he can procure the lady's hand in marriage.  Credibly honest, Kit informs Lauren that his family expects him to wed soon, and he doesn't want them to choose a bride.  Lauren agrees to the sham of a betrothal for the summer only so that her family will not continue to attempt to formulate her future.<br />    While the pretense of a betrothal to benefit both parties is not an unusual plot, Ms. Balogh deviates from the usual precipitous succumbing of passion.  During her summer at Kit's family home, Lauren and Kit find simple pleasure in their kindness towards one another as their caring natures lead to the greater complexities of a loving relationship.  Lauren's discovery of self through Kit's eyes is the emotional pinnacle of this heartwarming read.  Though the love scenes are explicit, there is a poetry here that few authors are able to achieve.<br />    One of the most prolific regency writers, Ms. Balogh is once again in top form with this latest read that is proof positive that her novels only keep getting better and better.	2002-08-16
US	44498121	R2O9FLBKWQ37CZ	0399148779	18749417	Eleventh Hour (An FBI Thriller)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Enthralling Suspense	Readers familiar with Ms. Coulter's FBI couple, Savich and Sherlock, will be pleased, as the husband and wife team makes a reappearance in this cleverly scripted novel.  When Father Michael Joseph is found murdered at his confessional in San Francisco, his identical twin brother, FBI agent Dane Carver, wants some answers.  With the help of a homeless woman, Nick Jones, and Inspector Delion, of the San Francisco P.D., Dane searches for a killer, who, apparently confessed his murderous sins to the deceased priest.  When Nick discovers that the killer is parroting a television show, THE CONSULTANT, the Feds entangle themselves in the investigation, complete with car chases and nerdy TV. studio execs.  <br />    The complexity of this read is enhanced by the underlying mystery surrounding the true identity of Nick Jones, the well-spoken \\"homeless\\" woman who is obviously running away from someone or something.  Is she a target because she witnessed Father Michael Joseph's murder or because the someone she is running from is out to kill her?  Dane seeks answers as he keeps Nick by his side, and sparks fly between the two.  <br />    Dual compelling mysteries enhance the anticipation in this creative version of a who-done -it.  The slight disappointment near the novel's conclusion occurs with the completely separate resolution of the two intertwined tales.  Fans of Ms. Coulter's Savich and Sherlock series will be captivated, and readers new to this series will likely be intrigued as well...	2002-07-31
US	44498121	R35Y6XA2C9JVMY	0765340291	947192452	East of the Sun, West of the Moon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	In Depth Look at Personal Relationships	Leigh Fallon is feeling smothered in her marriage to Bob, a Congressman who masterfully takes her for granted and belittles her. When she discovers that Bob has been cheating with an aide, Leigh decides to act on her attraction to Erik, a Norwegian foreign exchange student staying in her home. Though Erik is thirteen-years younger than her youthful forty, Leigh has been attracted to him since her college aged son introduced them. <br />But her affair with Erik comes with a price. When it is discovered, Bob makes sure that their three children thoroughly blame their mother. Twenty-year-old Mark is disgusted that his mother had a fling with his friend Erik. Eleven-year-old Aaron seems confused by his mother's behavior. And fifteen-year-old Melissa goes on a dating rampage just to prove her dislike of her mother. As circumstances intervene and prevent Erik and Leigh from being together, she makes a new life for herself working at a Georgetown art gallery. Will they be able to get on with their lives without each other? <br />How refreshing to find a novel portraying love and romance for a forty-something woman who is definitely not past her prime. And the real clincher is that a younger handsome man finds her more attractive than other women his own age. In a world where women over thirty are often found lacking, Ms. Bellacera's novel shows that a woman's maturity gives her depth and inner beauty not often found in her twenty-something counterparts. With a sense of true realism, this read explores the complex nature of relationships, both romantic and familial. This three dimensional read is a novel to be savored.	2002-07-29
US	44498121	RNLAXA0FJMWGZ	0743204700	471518023	An Accidental Woman	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Emotional Feel-Good Read	Readers of Ms. Delinsky's LAKE NEWS are reacquainted with Poppy Blake, a resident of Lake Henry, New Hampshire.  Paralyzed from the waist down in a snowmobile accident years ago, Poppy manages well enough on her own but is reluctant to let down her guard.  <br />    When the FBI arrests friend Heather Malone for a murder that she supposedly committed, under a different name, fifteen years ago, Poppy is devastated.  But she is no more upset than Micah Smith, Heather's companion whom she has loved for the past four years.  And as a mother to his motherless children, Missy and Star, Heather has excelled.  Micah doesn't know how he will survive while Heather awaits extradition to California, as she was his helpmate in their maple sugaring business and in his life.<br />    Enter Griffin Hughes, writer and friend of Poppy Blake.  When learning of Heather's unthinkable arrest, he arrives back in Lake Henry to offer his help.  At once wary and attracted, Poppy allows Griffin into her home as long as nothing he does is motivated by pity.  Griffin's investigative contacts prove helpful as he aids attorney Cassie in her search for evidence to vindicate Heather.  <br />    Ms. Delinsky delves deeply into the many facets of human emotion.  No emotional stone is left unturned. From Micah's sense of anger over Heather's betrayal to Poppy's reluctance to forgive herself, the reader is given a bird's-eye-view into the thoughts and hearts of the players in this close-knit community.  Add in the fascinating look at the winter maple sugaring process with the uniting of the residents of Lake Henry, and you have a truly feel good novel.	2002-07-27
US	44498121	R11I7TYWYQHIC3	0312284497	17904010	The Chase: A Novel	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Crafty Romantic Suspense	Veteran romance author Brenda Joyce once again ventures into the sub genre of romantic suspense with stunning results. Claire Hayden's life seems perfect on the surface-a beautiful home in San Francisco with a ten-year marriage to David, a handsome attorney. But their marriage isn't exactly happily-ever-after, and when David is found murdered at his fortieth birthday party, Claire is consumed with guilt and despair. <br />After discovering that David's business associate, Ian Marshall, isn't who he seems to be, Claire demands answers. Ian isn't just a business associate-he works for the Bergman Holocaust Research Center and hunts Nazis. At present, he is searching for Lionel Elgin, a British man who was a Nazi spy. As Elgin is top on the list of suspects in David's murder, Claire needs answers and finds herself in the thick of things. Why was David involved with a Nazi fugitive, and why was he killed with a WWII antique knife? <br />Claire seeks to find answers as she accompanies a reluctant Ian as he searches for Elgin. And when the two find themselves in danger from an assassin as well as their attraction for each other, the pages really begin to heat up. But with their newfound love, Claire is still unable to totally trust Ian as Claire's father is at the top of Ian's list as the true Lionel Elgin. <br />While the romance between Ian and Claire is a little precipitous, their newfound attraction for each other adds spice to this read. With the mystery as the prime focus, the novel shines brightly, especially with the chapters referencing the long ago incidents in WWII England, shedding light on the present mystery. A sure winner, this one will captivate the mystery reader who enjoys the splash of romance.	2002-07-24
US	44498121	RJFTAASQUVQZZ	0066211336	18853628	Daughter of the Game	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Suspenseful Historical Mystery	Ms. Grant's extensive knowledge of the regency period pays off in this mystery/spy novel with a touch of romance. In the year 1819, Melanie and Charles Fraser return to their London home after a party to learn that their six-year-old son, Colin, has been taken. The Frasers have only days to locate the legendary Carevalo Ring, known for the power it gives the bearer. The Marques de Carevalo will stop at nothing to get the ring back into his family's clutches and believes that it will enable him to seize power from the current Spanish government. <br />But a mission gone awry seven years prior left Charles' military operation without the ring, and he and Melanie must employ their previous knowledge of espionage to locate the missing jewel before time runs out for Colin. To do so, long hidden secrets about their respective pasts must come to light thereby threatening the very force of their marriage. Traveling from crowded gaming halls to bawdy brothels and picturesque Brighton, the pair's endurance is tested as they refuse to give up until the ring is found. <br />Though the read appears slow moving initially, it quickly picks up pace as the players journey to find the next clue to locate the ring. Interspersed is a surprisingly candid interplay between Melanie and Charles as they reveal events of their past long since buried. The depictions of events and places are descriptive enough to pull the reader into the novel without overshadowing the captivating suspense that is the mainstay of this read. A true original, this is one read not to miss.	2002-07-01
US	44498121	R36610SHCNUQ62	1551669218	350335975	Prospect Street	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Romance with a Little Mystery	Married for fifteen years to a man who directs a right-wing organization, Faith Bronson leads a charmed life.  With the requisite beautiful children, a fourteen-year-old girl, Remy and an eleven-year-old boy, Alex, Faith has few complaints as wife, mother, and homemaker in their elegant northern Virginia home.  <br />    When she discovers her husband, David, at their West Virginia cottage with another man, her carefully built world crumbles around her.  Forced to move to her mother's Georgetown home on Prospect Street, Faith begins renovations there as she researches the kidnapping of her baby sister from the house some thirty years prior.  Eccentric neighbor Dottie Lee fills in the gaps of Faith's research as Faith begins a relationship with Pavel Quinn, dot-com guru and fellow Georgetown resident.  <br />    Ms. Richards deftly integrates all aspects of Faith's existence into one neat package.  A new love interest, a troubled teen-age daughter, and disturbing facts about her older sister's kidnapping keep this novel brimming with tension.  As the pieces to the puzzle of the thirty-year-old mystery begin to fall into place, Faith must come to terms with her husband's homosexuality and learn to trust again.  Multifaceted, this is a read that will appeal to a reader searching for mystery, romance, and personal struggles all in one page-turning read.	2002-07-01
US	44498121	R1YR3YZ4YGSAMH	0743451716	971497052	Leave No Trace	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Intensely Gripping Suspense	Ms. Nyala has successful made the transition between her previous non-fiction work (POINT LAST SEEN) and this current fictional tale of a woman struggling to survive in the Australian desert. Joining her research scientist boyfriend, Paul O'Malley, in the Tanami desert of Australia, Tally Nowata relies on his desert knowledge for survival. Though she works search and rescue in the Grand Tetons, nothing has prepared Tally for her quest to survive when Paul fails to return from a trip to replenish supplies and pick up his ten-year-old daughter Josie at the airport in Alice Springs. <br />When Tally discovers Paul's body in his Land Rover, her hope of survival plummets. With little food or water, she is unsure that she can survive the journey to the nearest village. That journey is further complicated when she discovers a feverish Josie hiding in the back of the vehicle. As Tally and Josie trek across the desert, they find that they are not alone. In pursuit of them are ruthless members of the drug trade whom Paul had the misfortune of stumbling upon <br />Ms. Nyala's gripping description of the search for food and water takes the reader deep into the desert land fighting for survival. It is a world permanently etched in the reader's subconscious, complete with sandstorms, wild dingoes, and deadly heat. And amidst this life or death struggle is Tally's awakening to the protective maternal instincts that she never thought to have. With descriptive prose carefully balanced with Tally's conflicting inner demons, this is a read to be savored.	2002-06-24
US	44498121	RSCVK5QSXL4TW	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Well-crafted Paranormal Romance	Ms. Roberts delivers a wonderful novel yet again with this final installment in the Three Sisters Island trilogy. As one of the descendants of the original three witches who created Three Sisters Island, off the coast of Massachusetts, Mia Devlin is a powerful witch in her own right. Owner of the successful Caf Book, Mia contents herself with magic and her friendships with Nell and Ripley, the other women who complete the circle of three. <br />Beautiful, in control Mia is thrown a curve when Sam Logan returns to town. Ten years ago, he left, vowing never to return, and crushed Mia's youthful heart. But Sam is back to stay and run his family's hotel on his own terms. Inevitably, Mia and Sam meet again, and she agrees to a relationship with him as long as her heart remains uninvolved. <br />As fate intervenes, Mia becomes attuned to an evil force threatening those she loves and all she holds dear. With the approach of the summer and a full moon, Mia, Nell, and Ripley must face their greatest test yet. Will Mia let Sam aid her with his own paranormal skills, or is she destined to face the demon alone? <br />While the previous two novels in this trilogy provide further explanations of the characters' relationships, this read gives enough background info to those with no prior knowledge of the three witches. The romance between Sam and Mia is both sensual and sweet as their love matures from its adolescent beginnings. And the mystical element of magic adds a unique and pleasurable touch to this work of fiction.	2002-05-30
US	44498121	R1PQZOBT1VCFAS	0345433319	541544893	Midnight Voices	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Eerie Suspense	Suspense and murder set against the faade of an eerie New York apartment building form the backdrop for this latest novel from veteran author John Saul.  When Caroline Evans' husband is murdered while jogging, her world is turned upside down.  Trying to raise ten-year-old Ryan and twelve-year-old Laurie on the meager salary of an antique store employee, Caroline barely has enough money to survive. When she meets Tony Fleming, her circumstances seem to improve.  <br />    Upon their marriage, Caroline and her children move into Tony's apartment in The Rockwell, an ancient apartment building abounding with rumors of dead bodies and ghouls.  Though many of the residents other than Tony are elderly, they seem unusually friendly towards the children even as Caroline begins to redecorate Tony's apartment.  But Ryan's outspoken aversion to his kindly step-father and Laurie's nightmares put a damper on Caroline's newfound happiness.  And when Laurie's sickness comes on the heels of the illness of their young neighbor Rebecca, Caroline begins investigating Tony's sacred study.  The secrets she discovers there give Caroline a chilling sense of foreboding as Laurie's evil dreams intensify and she weakens further.<br />    Mr. Saul has craftily executed the quintessential suspense/horror novel with the normality of the book's beginning being marred by the introduction of terrorizing elements.  The mystery is a gradual evolution captivating the reader's attention.  The only drawback is the somewhat abrupt ending after such a spellbinding build-up.	2002-05-28
US	44498121	R20F415P7R6ZC3	0345455622	175194009	Lady Killer/Secret Admirer (2 Books in One)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Historical Romance with a Mystery Twist	Ms. Jaffe presents a new voice in the sub genre of historical romance with her latest duo of sixteenth century mysteries. In the first, a vampire novel, Miles Loredan, Viscount Dearbourn is averse to complying with his betrothal contract to marry Lady Mariana Nonesuch. When Miles meets the beautiful sleuth, Clio Thornton, cousin of Mariana, he employs Clio as a ruse to keep her in his protection. For the Vampire of London has returned, though Miles thought he had killed him three years prior. <br />The love scenes are very sensual amidst the backdrop of the wealthy splendor of sixteenth century English nobility. And the mystery of the bodies left behind by the vampire adds a unique twist to the traditional historical romance. <br />On the flip side of this book is another sixteenth century mystery in which Lady Tuesday Arlington is considered the prime suspect in her husband's murder. Lawrence Pickering, earl of Arden, and England's primary investigator of smuggling begins to follow Tuesday's every move, as she has painted the murder scene where her husband was found. When Tuesday continues to paint more murder scenes, Lawrence starts to become involved with her romantically, though he is bemused by her knowledge of the crime scenes. Is the real murderer stalking Tuesday, possibly using her paintings to stage the backdrop for murder? <br />Descriptively intimate love scenes are frequent and varied throughout this read. The romantic tension is palpable and reminiscent of Judith McNaught. Add in the mysterious murderer/secret admirer, and you have a true page-turner.	2002-05-26
US	44498121	R7RELK9AND0YU	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enduring Suspense	Murder, drug trafficking, old friendships, and mafia-like connections are but a few elements that tie together to make this a thriller until the final paragraph. <br />Growing up in northern New Jersey, Will Klein had always admired his older brother Ken. But Ken has been gone for eleven years, presumably dead, after he was accused of murdering Wills former girlfriend, Julie Miller. On her deathbed, Wills mother, Sunny, confesses that Ken is alive and shows Will a recent photograph of Ken. <br />Not sure where to turn, Will seeks solace in his relationship with girlfriend, Sheila Rogers, a volunteer at Covenant House, a NYC runaway shelter where Will works alongside his friend and yoga guru, Squares. And when Sheila turns up missing with the FBI hot on her tracks, Wills world is turned upside down. Kens former neighborhood buddies, John Asselta, the Ghost, and Philip McGuane enter the picture with their violent desire to locate Ken. <br />Believing his brother to be innocent, Will embarks on a quest to locate Ken as well as the missing Sheila. What he does uncover is devastating evidence that everything he has always thought to be true is not at all what it seemed. <br />Mr. Cobens writing is straightforward, no flowery prose here. There is never-ending suspense as mysteries are unraveled and secrets are revealed. The relationship of the supporting characters to one another is like a puzzle that needs that missing piece before the picture is crystal clear.	2002-05-18
US	44498121	R5Z16HCJ5ZTU9	0440236940	270118303	The Secret Lover (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 6)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Superb Historical Romance	Ms. London, well known in the romance genre for her popular series, Rogues of Regent Street, acquaints readers with Sophie Dane, the younger sister of a former rogue, Julian Dane. The year is 1836, when Sophie elopes with Sir William Stanwood, unaware that he would physically abuse her. Eight years later, Sophie has survived a scandalous divorce and is a traveling companion to Honorine Fortier, a free-spirited French-woman with whom she has traveled the globe. But to Sophie's dismay, Honorine wishes to journey to London where Sophie must relive her sordid past and face the members of the ton. <br />Spending her London days in a nearby park, Sophie spies an attractive man across the pond. As he soon becomes aware of her studying him, the two societal outcasts become friends before they become lovers. He just happens to be Caleb Hamilton, the illegitimate son of Will Hamilton, father of Trevor, Sophie's apparent suitor. While Sophie attempts to discover the nature of Trevor's attraction to her, he does everything possible to prevent Caleb from having any contact with their ailing father. Adding substance to the plot is Honorine's interest in Will and her ability to aid his recovery from a seizure disorder. <br />But as the affair between Sophie and Caleb progresses, Caleb becomes reluctant to keep theirs a secret relationship. Will Sophie succumb to familial pressure to marry Trevor, the legitimate heir, or follow her heart before Caleb is lost to her forever? <br />Ms. London has created protagonists who stand apart in the romance genre with a very profound love found in a relationship both believable and enviable. The elements of romantic tension are sufficient to thicken the novel's plot without creating so much strife as to detract from the read. And the supporting characters are especially colorful, from the free-spirited Honorine to her traveling companions, Fabrice and Roland. In the sub-genre of historical romance, Ms. London is one of the very best.	2002-04-30
US	44498121	R3FI66OP7BYNSK	0743206045	991690611	Daddy's Little Girl	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Page-turning Suspense	Ever popular fiction writer Mary Higgins Clark has written yet another spine-tingling tale in this latest read. As a slight deviation, the victim's sister tells the story in the first person. Twenty-two years ago, fifteen-year-old Andrea Cavanaugh was brutally murdered near her home in suburban West Chester County, New York. Her sister, Ellie, seven-years-old at the time, has shouldered the blame for not telling her parents where her sister might have gone on that fateful night. With the subsequent breakup of her family and her mother's alcoholism, Ellie has grown up remembering her father's \\"why didn't you tell us?\\" <br />Now, Ellie is twenty-nine-years-old and an investigative reporter in Atlanta. She returns to her childhood home on the eve of the release of her sister's murderer. Determined to prevent the killer to be exonerated with a new trial, Ellie starts a web page and begins to uncover startling new facts concerning her sister's killer. Though she faces opposition from members of the town who believe in the man's innocence, Ellie continues in her quest. But Ms. Higgins Clark has created a character the reader wants to champion even as her life becomes endangered when she journeys too close to the truth. <br />As the clues mount in this non-stop adventure, Ellie's relationship with her estranged father and half-brother becomes a factor in their effort to protect her from becoming a victim. Clue by clue, the identity of the murderer becomes solidified, but the reader still wonders if Ellie is not being misled. A brilliant read, suspenseful until the very end.	2002-04-19
US	44498121	ROJBZMO1GMW9L	039914840X	818968546	Three Fates	Books	5	60	64	N	N	Thrilling Romance	Nora Roberts is at it once again, turning out another thrilling novel complete with a satisfying story line and sensuous romance. In 1915, the LUSITANIA sank off the coast of Ireland, ostensibly taking with it the first of the Three Fates, small silver statues collectively worth a fortune. But Felix Greenfield, a thief, had the fortune to steal the Fate from collector Henry W. Wyley and survived the sinking of the ship. <br />Fast-forward to the present when Felix's Irish descendant, Malachi Sullivan, attempts to recover the first Fate from Anita Gaye, owner of Morningside, a New York antiques dealer, who duped him of his treasure. In this quest, he pursues Dr. Tia Marsh, mythology expert and an heir to the Wyley fortune. With Tia's knowledge concerning the three female Greek statues, Malachi thinks she just might help his search for the remaining two Fates. Tia's fragility is craftily combined with her brilliance to highlight her strong characteristics, which continue to emerge when Malachi follows her back to New York. <br />Brother Gideon Sullivan embarks on his own Fate-seeking quest when he locates Cleo Toliver in Prague. Cleo, a down-on-her luck dancer working at a strip club, just happened to have an ancestor who supposedly owned the second Fate. Even as Gideon and Cleo embark on a wild affair, some men that think that Cleo may have something they want, chase them through Prague. <br />Enter Jack Burdett, owner of a multi-million-dollar security agency, who takes a trip to Ireland and visits Rebecca Sullivan, sister of the biblically named brothers. Is Jack's interest in Rebecca of a business nature as he enjoys a pleasure tour in her family's boat? <br />When the Sullivans, along with Cleo and Jack, descend upon Tia's New York apartment, the three couples must combine their efforts to locate the Three Fates and prevent them from falling into the wrong hands. As the romance heats up, the pairs find that their past and futures are inextricably linked to the Fates. <br />Fast-paced adventure enthralls the reader following the fascinating players as they travel across Europe and back to New York again in this sizzling romance. Ms. Roberts' ability shines as she creates six unique and appealing characters whose differences accentuate their strengths.	2002-04-03
US	44498121	R7MQ4VAJ3O79M	1551668971	938803170	Hurricane Bay	Books	5	5	5	N	N	First-Rate Romantic Suspense	The Florida Keys is an idyllic paradise that harbors a murderer in this latest romantic suspense from Ms. Graham. When Kelsey Cunningham takes a vacation from her busy job in Miami, she agrees to spend the week at the Florida Keys duplex of old chum Sheila Warren. But Sheila is missing, and none of Kelsey's old friends seem concerned, as Sheila is somewhat of a free spirit. And Kelsey must, once again, confront Dane Whitelaw, an old flame and the last person to see Sheila alive. <br />As Kelsey and Dane attempt to discover Sheila's whereabouts, each is unwilling to trust the other, and Dane appears even more evasive, because his secrets would have disastrous effects if they became known. Their attraction becomes more volatile, and they are unwilling partners as their search for a possible serial killer leads them to Miami's strip clubs and the home of Sheila's sleazy stepfather. <br />The cast of supporting characters adds depth to the read as it increases the number of suspects implicated in Sheila's disappearance. There is Cindy, the enterprising fitness dynamo who owns a t-shirt business. Nate, Kelsey's ex, runs a local bar, and admits to having once had a relationship with Sheila. Larry, Sheila's ex, never really got over the divorce. Izzy may be Sheila's supplier, but no one knows for sure. And Jorge makes mysterious boat runs as he dumps cargo overboard. <br />The suspense is superb: it builds slowly and begins to spin out of control as the killer gets frightened that someone is getting too close to the truth. Readers won't be disappointed when this page-turning read packs one wallop of a conclusion.	2002-03-25
US	44498121	R1XRX2D02GQTP5	0066214440	416657694	Enemy Women: A Novel	Books	5	51	53	N	N	A Southern Woman's Civil War Journey	Award-winning poet Paulette Jiles enthralls readers with this, her first novel, a gripping tale of love and survival among the destruction of the Civil War. In southeastern Missouri, Adair Colley and her two young sisters are left alone when the Union Militia arrests their father. Leaving their partially burnt home, the girls set out on foot to search for their father. <br />But Missouri is a state divided, with renegade rebels led by Colonel Tim Reeves, and the Union Militia destroying all in the name of martial law. When Adair is arrested on false charges of aiding the confederate \\"enemy\\", she is taken to a prison in St. Louis and must leave her sisters behind. Crafty and resourceful, Adair manages to survive amongst the female population of the General Ward, despite threats from other inmates and the evil-doings of the matron. <br />While in prison, Adair attracts the attention of Major William Neumann, who promises to request her release in return for a signed confession. As the frequency of their meetings increases, their clever banter gradually changes into a union of like souls, amidst the horrors of the war. When they must each go their different ways, time will tell if love is strong enough to withstand their separation. <br />Lyrical prose capturing both the beauty of the Ozarks and the destruction of human life all around forms the framework in this alluring read. The texture is further enhanced by the snippets of Civil War history interspersed with fictional elements. And the focus on a Civil War Missouri is both refreshing and educational, no antebellum homes here, mostly just poor farmers with nary a plantation in sight.	2002-02-24
US	44498121	R1VZNVPXW9SC6B	0373291914	829285409	My Lady'S Trust	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enthralling Historical	Laura Martin has done her best to ensure that she does not stand out as she lives quietly in an English village. When her Aunt Mary died, Laura occupied herself by using her knowledge of medicinal herbs to heal others. Tragedy strikes when Squire Everett's young guest, Kit Bradsleigh, is shot in a hunting accident. Widowed Mrs. Martin is asked to tend to the injured man and remain at Everett Hall during his convalescence. <br />Desperately trying to appear drab, Laura hopes to escape the notice of Kit's visiting older brother, Hugh Mannington Bradsleigh, Earl of Beaulieu. But the attraction between the two is cleverly subtle, thereby increasing its effectiveness. And Mrs. Martin's kindness and herbal knowledge has not escaped the notice of rich supporting characters, Lady Elspeth, Beau's sister or Squire Everett, the aged noble who is much taken with Laura. As the attraction between Beau and Laura reaches the boiling point, she once again withdraws to the safety of her cottage. Will she trust Beau and reveal her deepest secret, which could place her in grave danger? <br />A gradual awakening of romance supported by a cast of well-written characters provides the backbone in this page turning historical. Ms. Justiss is well on her way to making her mark in the genre of historical romance.	2002-02-19
US	44498121	RECNWQH793V76	0446516570	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Suspenseful Journey Across Vietnam	Vietnam veteran and author Nelson DeMille reacquaints his readers with Paul Brenner, former CID investigator and primary character of THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER. The year is 1997, and his former boss, Colonel Karl Hellmann, asks Brenner, who completed two tours in Vietnam, to investigate a thirty-year-old crime that occurred there. <br />Allegedly, in February of 1968, a U.S. Army captain shot a U.S. Army lieutenant and killed him. The only witness was a soldier for the North Vietnamese army, named Tran Van Vinh. In a letter to his brother, Tran Quan Lee, Tran Van Vinh describes the occasion. An American soldier discovered the letter on the body of Tran Quan Lee and recently unearthed it in an old trunk and sent it along to Vietnam Veteran's of America. Paul's mission is to locate Mr. Tran Van Vinh and discover if he remembers the murderous incident. <br />Reluctantly agreeing to this mission, Paul flies to Saigon where he meets up with American Susan Weber who claims to be making contact with him to aid a friend. Susan's savvy knowledge of Vietnam helps Paul as he journeys across the countryside, ostensibly as a vet and tourist reliving old memories. As an airport confrontation with Colonel Mang leaves a cloud of suspicion over Paul, Susan's relationship with Paul aids his attempt to lessen Mang's suspicion. Paul's reawakening journey across Vietnam is not a history lesson, but a craftily worded journey that leaves the reader grasping for more in anticipation of the next clash with police and finally, the discovery of Tran Van Vinh. <br />Seasoned veteran Brenner is fully aware that there is more to this mission than meets the eye, but what, he has yet to discover. And Susan proves to be an enigma, as her abilities to squirm out of the most difficult of situations, are inconsistent with her status as an ivy-league American businesswoman. As Paul and Susan approach Tran Van Vinh's village near the Tet holiday, they must decide whether love and trust are codependent. <br/>With seven hundred plus pages of text, many a reader might be concerned that the description of places and battles in Vietnam would cause the read to drag. Not so, as De Mille is a skilled enough author to carefully integrate the present and past in a combination that encourages the reader to seek the compelling conclusion.	2002-02-02
US	44498121	R28OXO3O49ZHQ8	044661078X	938881243	Passing Through Paradise	Books	5	17	19	N	N	More Than Just Romance	Well-known for her historical romances, author Susan Wiggs once again delves into the contemporary venue in this moving read complete with healing hearts and and simmering mystery. <br />Widow Sandra Winslow moves into the old beach home along the coast of Rhode Island. The home, given to her by her grandfather, is all that she has left after the death of her husband, Victor Winslow. By all accounts, Victor was the consummate politician and perfect husband and son. Only Sandra knows what happened on the bridge that fateful February when the car she was driving careened off the bridge and landed in the frigid water below. Though Victor's body was never found, Sandra survived and was exonerated at the inquest. But the townspeople and media feel otherwise as the author credibly exhibits their disdain, making it believable and not overdone. <br />Feeling the pressure to start anew, Sandra enlist the aid of \\"handyman\\" Mike Malloy to restore the beach home so that she can sell it and move on. But she wasn't bargaining on her attraction to Mike, at first in an elemental way she hasn't felt before. There is more than just physical desire, though, as Ms. Wiggs develops their attraction in such a way that they reinforce the empty spaces in each other's lives. <br />Their emotional baggage seems almost insurmountable, with Mike's difficulties as a single divorced dad, and Sandra's conflicting feelings concerning her apparently happy marriage. In a compelling parallel to Sandra's own parents, who are considering divorce, Mike and Sandra must learn to work through each others differences to achieve a relationship worth saving. Complex characters, a hunky hero, and a constant undercurrent of mystery, lend creativity to this novel that is so much more than a formulaic romance. A must read!	2002-01-30
US	44498121	R4IXCZY9SQ7QP	0743237188	434448992	Fall On Your Knees (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Haunting First Novel	In her debut novel, Canadian author MacDonald lures readers with her amazing insight into the human soul and its darkest secrets. She visits the town of New Waterford, Cape Breton, an island near Nova Scotia. <br />Near the turn of the twentieth century, ambitious young piano tuner James Piper meets thirteen-year-old Materia Mahmoud. Against the wishes of her Catholic Lebanese parents, the two marry, Materia is disowned, and they set up housekeeping in a house her father had built for them. Previously pampered Materia finds difficulty adjusting to married life, even more so after she becomes pregnant. It seems as if her only friend is neighbor Mrs. Luvovitz, the wife of the Jewish town butcher. With the birth of Kathleen, Materia encounters feelings of guilt for her inability to bond with her daughter, the joy of James' life. <br />As their marriage continues unhappily, Materia gives birth to two other thriving children, Mercedes and Frances. Though she does her best to mother them, part of Materia is missing, as James grows increasingly disgruntled with her. And while the years roll by, the Piper family seems to face more tragedy than triumph as life continues on with more births, deaths, and purposeful self-destruction. <br />Ms. MacDonald hooks her readers with the resonance of her characters, explored in such a way as to expose their various layers. With every character, there are many faces, none all good or evil, each providing a different face to the world. And the combination of religions, Catholic, Protestant, and Jewish, is creatively meshed with the every day world of the times, often to justify actions taken or not taken. This is definitely a read not to be missed, whose characters will fill the heart and soul for a long time to come.	2002-01-28
US	44498121	R17T46T31EOGAL	0451202996	443461985	Gracelin O'Malley (Gracelin O'Malley, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Riveting Historical Novel	In 1840's Ireland, young Gracelin O'Malley comes of age in a country torn apart with rebellion, disease, and famine. Married at the tender age of fifteen to local squire, Bram Donnelly, Grace's ascent into adulthood is rapid and heart wrenching. Though her new husband is able to provide her with a material security previously unknown to her, his abusive behavior causes her endless misery. <br />And when the potato crop is destroyed by disease, Grace tries to help the starving population of the countryside. Bram's discovery of her good deeds results in an explosion of his temper, and Grace returns to the bosom of her family. Tragedy continues to strike as more countrymen succumb to death and disease, and landlords like Bram fear for their lives when they continue to evict their tenants. Rebellion is on the rise, as men like Grace's brother and friend Morgan organize groups of followers to combat the injustice done them by the English. <br />But author Moore has painted Grace as a heroic woman who continues to hope as friends and family are taken from her. Despite her misfortunes, she clings desperately to a thread of happiness, as she and her daughter Mary Kate continue to live day-to-day in difficult times. <br />An emotionally deep novel, filled with intense moments of self-sacrifice, Ms. Moore's work of historical fiction will entrance the reader with its deeply haunting beauty. The lyrical voices of the long-dead Irish people will live forever through this wonderful novel, as readers eagerly anticipate the continuation of Grace's saga.	2002-01-26
US	44498121	R3G37JH6WPDT7Q	0670894494	939558795	The Passion of Artemisia	Books	5	71	74	N	N	Wonderful Artistic Journey	As the best-selling author of GIRL IN HYACINTH BLUE, Susan Vreeland once again stuns readers with a lyrical depiction of a woman destined to follow her artistic dreams. As an early seventeenth century artist under the tutelage of her artist father, Orazio Gentileschi, Artemisia experiences tremendous humiliation as she faces her rapist in papal court. Though Agostino Tassi, a colleague of Orazios, had raped Artemisia, she is forced to endure a degrading public examination to prove her accusations. With her ruined reputation, Artemisia leaves Rome to wed Pietro Stiattesi and move to Florence. <br />Together, Pietro and Artemisia indulge in the art of painting, but unfortunately for Pietro, it is Artemisia who gets the most recognition, first with a commission from the nephew of the famous Michelangelo, and later from Cosimo de Medici. Though Artemisia and Pietro have a daughter, Palmira, Pietro becomes resentful when Artemisia gains admission to the Accademia dell Arte del Disegno before he does. <br />The all-encompassing descriptive prose leads the reader back into seventeenth century Italy, following Artemisia and her daughter as they journey to Genoa, Venice, and come full circle back to Rome. With the incredible artistic backdrop of the timeless treasures of these cities, the author often makes a religious connection to the magnificent works depicted there. <br />And for anyone who ever wanted an eyewitness view into an artists soul, this novel is the perfect venue. Even a non-artist can begin to understand the depth of emotion and lifetime experiences that go into an artists creativity. Most enduring though, is Artemisias triumph in a time when women were treated in a most inferior manner.	2002-01-18
US	44498121	R2OJ99EY4V8MSS	0399147926	289151149	Smoke In Mirrors	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Clever Tale of Murder and Mystery	Multi-talented author Jane Ann Krentz's latest is a novel of mystery and murder set in an eerie old home replete with antique mirrors. <br />As librarian Leonora Hutton learns of the car crash that killed her half-sister Meredith, she begins to clean out Meredith's apartment. There she encounters Thomas Walker, a former \\"friend\\" of Meredith's who is convinced that she embezzled from his sister-in-law's memorial fund at Eubanks College in Wing Cove, Washington. And the only link between his sister-in-law, Bethany, and Meredith, is that they both worked at Mirror House, the college alumni association building. <br />When Leonora receives information concerning her sister's offshore bank account, she agrees to share that with Thomas in exchange for his getting her a job at Mirror House. Upon learning of Thomas's brother Deke's suggestion that Meredith and Bethany may have been murdered, Leonora wants to investigate. What she soon discovers is a house full of sinister-looking mirrors, a snake-oil therapist, and an attraction she never expected. While the romance heats up between Leonora and Thomas, they find themselves in danger as their investigation brings them closer to the truth. The carefully orchestrated love scenes are a wonderful addition to this read thereby making up for the minimal description of Thomas and Leonora. <br />Though the reader may feel cheated with the shallow characterization of the main characters, the mystery will carry this novel through to the finish. With the page turning suspense, be prepared for the final clincher- it's a winner.	2002-01-10
US	44498121	R21T7KGA0G41IO	0446609250	9987642	Swear by the Moon	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Mysterious Historical	In 1798 England, eccentric Thea Garrett lives with her cousin, Modesty, in a town house in London. Having been the victim of scandal some ten years prior, Thea is content to relish her independence and has vowed never to trust a man again. <br />But in a private meeting with her brother-in-law, Alfred Hirst, events spiral out of control, and Thea is afraid that she might have accidentally killed Hirst. Hours later, Patrick Blackburne visits Thea at her residence, and she recognizes him as the man that saw her fleeing the scene of her ominous encounter with Hirst. Against her better judgment, Thea is forced to trust Patrick, as the two begin their search for Hirst's true killer. <br />Though the attraction between Thea and Patrick is very real and electric, their relationship develops very precipitously. Because their attraction lacks depth, they seem to be merely characters on paper rather than real people. Nevertheless, the mystery is fast-paced and intriguing, as Thea and Patrick face danger in their quest to uncover plots to commit murder and blackmail. <br />Though this work seems to fall short of Ms. Busbee's usual standards, the suspenseful element helps overcome deficiencies of the characters thereby rendering it an averagely entertaining read.	2002-01-05
US	44498121	R1QORKRZ5CI10N	0449006379	734231472	Lord of Fire	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Exciting Historical	This first of a two book series, Ms. Foley's latest novel is a passionate tale of romance and redemption.<br />    Regency England finds spy Lucien Knight holding another one of his debauched house parties at Revell Court.  Unbeknownst to Lucien, innocent Alice Montague has journeyed to his estate to locate her errant sister-in-law, Caro, and bring her back to Glenwood Park to care for her ill son, Harry.  Before finding Caro, though, Alice meets Lucien, who, at first believes her to be an enemy spy.  When discovering her true identity, Lucien finds that he does not want her to leave.  With a devious plan in place, he asks Alice to stay with him for one week, while Caro returns to Glenwood Park.  <br />    As Alice reluctantly warms to Lucien, their attraction, while physical, evolves into an emotional entanglement that changes both of them.  In a tear-jerking sequence of events, both Alice and Lucien come together as they escape from the loneliness of their lives.  But a major impediment to their blissful existence arrives in the form of Claude Bardou, Lucien's French nemesis.  Forced to choose between Alice and revenge, Lucien faces his difficult past as page-turning romantic tension wars with sizzling romantic attraction. Can Lucien stop Bardou before he wreaks havoc and destruction on England?<br />    Intensely emotional and extremely passionate, this is a read for those who love multi-faceted characters whose attraction is anything but simple.  Ms. Foley successfully pairs an unlikely hero and heroine in a relationship that at first seems an impossibility.  Following close on the heels of this superb read is LORD OF ICE, the story of Damien, Lucien's identical twin, a decorated colonel suffering from flashbacks of war.	2002-01-02
US	44498121	RNSVZZ0TH86H3	0671786539	756884641	To Trust a Stranger	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Terrific Suspense	Suspenseful and sexy, Ms. Robards' read is a thriller with non-stop action providing hours of glued-to-the-pages entertainment.<br />Former South Carolina beauty queen Julie Carlson suspects that her mega-bucks husband, Sid, is cheating on her. As she follows him one night, a farcical set of circumstances leave her clad in skimpy pajamas, stranded in Charleston's red light district without a car and with a transvestite named Debbie as her only companion.<br />Debbie is really Mac McQuarry, a P.I. who went undercover to locate a client's cheating husband. When Mac aids Julie out of the jam she is in, Julie discovers that Debbie is really a man, but she assumes that he is gay. Not bothering to correct her, Mac lets Julie think what she will, adding an element of humor to this intense read as Julie finds herself fantasizing about Debbie aka Mac.<br />Soon, Julie discovers that her life may be in danger, and Mac is probably the only one that she can trust. Swallowing her pride, Julie tries to overlook the fact that Mac omitted the truth about his sexuality and his previous association with Sid. In a heart-stopping race for their lives, Julie and Mac are on the run from the police, the mob, and a hit man. Can they find safety before they both end up dead?<br />Combining the excitement of a mystery with the spice of a romance, Ms. Robards has, once again, firmly established her position in the genre of romantic suspense. And all the characters, most especially Mac and Julie, are so realistically written, thereby increasing the credibility of this read. A MUST READ!	2001-12-30
US	44498121	RYXP3VZY46Z2B	0743439724	386088520	A Knight in Shining Armor	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Enchanting Romance	First published in 1989, this read stands alone as a classic love story in the genre of romance. Recently updated to reflect the author's writing expertise, this well-loved novel is certain to become a favorite of those new to this spectacular love story. <br />On vacation with her surgeon boyfriend, Robert, and his difficult daughter, Gloria, Dougless Montgomery is tired of being the woman unlucky in love and life. When Robert and Gloria once again mistreat Dougless , they leave her stranded at a church in England. Drawn by her sobbing against his tomb, Nicholas Stafford travels across time from the sixteenth century to appear at Dougless' side. Though she is convinced that Nicholas is an actor living his part, she soon begins to believe that he really is from the past. As, together they travel the countryside trying to discover who betrayed Nicholas in the 16th century, Douglass patiently introduces Nicholas to modern culture in a touching and comedic turn of events. As they begin to fall in love, they begin to wonder if their love is even possible. Can they change history and prevent Nicholas from being falsely accused of treason? <br />As Dougless travels back to the sixteenth century, she soon discovers that Nicholas doesn't remember their being together. She carefully breaks down his defenses even as she enchants members of the Stafford household with her eclectic twentieth century repertory of songs and games. Even as their love comes into full bloom again, Dougless wonders if she can help Nicholas change history and be remembered for the remarkable man that he was. <br />With such a likeable heroine and to-die-for hero, this read is a romance to be savored again and again. Even as it highlights the awesome power of love, it is filled with just enough history to enlighten the reader without overburdening them with unnecessary details. A truly dazzling read!	2001-12-25
US	44498121	RZW67P0ZPT1BZ	1551668734	884888116	Season Of Miracles	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Pleasing Holiday Diversion	Author Heather Graham, who also writes as Heather Graham Pozzessere, introduces the reader to her newest work of fiction, ripe with the paranormal, a possible killer, and passionate romance. <br />Enter the clan Llewellyn, a powerful New York family running a profitable company. Patriarch Douglas is getting on in years, and widowed granddaughter Jillian is viewed as his favorite choice to lead the company in the future. When Douglas hires handsome Robert Marston to help oversee the company and keep a close watch on Jillian, other family members become rather resentful. The relationship between the cousins is often difficult to keep straight and slightly too quirky for this read. Nevertheless, they all become suspects in Robert's book as Jillian encounters one too many \\"accidents\\". <br />The attraction between Robert and Jillian is a definite highlight of this read, as it is well-executed, not too explicit, and innovative in design when they discover that they may have known each other in a past life. When Jillian begins to have strange dreams of fire, Robert becomes more convinced that he must stay by her side. And as they discover an old history book and meet with a psychic, Robert and Jillian learn that they now may have a chance to right the wrong of a past life. <br />Highlighted as a pre-Christmas tale, this is a light read with just enough mystery and miracles to keep the reader in a holiday mood. Though not Ms. Graham's best, overall, this is a fast-paced work of fiction sure to provide diversion from the frenzy of the holiday season.	2001-12-23
US	44498121	RUH7K6EVI64Y3	0312979088	945953471	Unforgivable	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Captivating Romantic Suspense	Romantic suspense is at its very best with this latest read from Ms. Wainscott. Wrapped up in one terrific package is a rampant serial killer, a controlling husband, a beaten-down wife, and a handsome mysterious loner all connected in this intricate and suspenseful plot. <br />With the reappearance of \\"Spooky Silas\\" Koole, Katie is reminded of the girl she used to be before she married local vet and her savior, Ben Ferguson. After her mother died, Katie lived with another family and was befriended by Ben who had aided her when Gary, the bully, injured her kitten. Now, after nine years of marriage, Katie is but a shell of her former self, complacent and pleasing, no longer the spirited girl Silas remembered. <br />Even as Silas warns Katie to trust no one, the serial killer strikes again, leaving no body, and Silas is the main suspect. And fear strikes Katie, as the list of possible suspects cleverly emerges: Is it Gary, the kitten abuser and gruff cop, Harold, the creepy \\"art\\" dealer, Silas, who empathetically feels the killer, or Ben, the town hero and control freak husband? <br />As love emerges between loner Silas and a damaged Katie, it becomes so much more than just romance, mainly a culmination of life-long love deepening into mature adult love. As they begin to trust one another, Katie is forced to question her marriage, her mother's death years before, and her life, as she has known it for the last nine years. <br />Ms. Wainscott's latest is a masterpiece of mystery, chock full of suspense, and brimming with romantic attraction. Readers unfamiliar with this rising star's work will definitely want to check out this latest suspenseful novel.	2001-12-20
US	44498121	R2PSAVUGGBVGKS	0843949422	899481619	Eden	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Entertaining Civil War Era Historical	In 1863 New Orleans, Eden LeGrand leads a dual life. Though she is a volunteer at the Homeless Haven Orphans' Asylum, she is also aiding covert confederate operations. When Reverend Logan Matthews stops some Yankee thugs from harming Eden and the children at the orphanage, she sees in him her knight in shining armor. Their mutual attraction is an obstacle to Logan, who is in reality a Yankee spy searching for his missing brother. <br />In a somewhat predictable turn of events, Logan and Eden are forced to marry to save her reputation. Though passion-filled nights follow, Logan knows that all to soon, their idyll will have to end, as he plans a trap for Adrian Forrester, a suspected reb spy who runs the orphanage. Can their marriage be saved when Logan reveals his true purpose to Eden who sees their life together as nothing but lies and deception? <br />The attraction between Eden and Logan and their sizzling love scenes keep the reader questing for more in this entertaining historical. While the characters, at times, seem to lack depth, the engaging plot appears to make up for this shortcoming. Fans of Civil War era romances will definitely want to check this one out.	2001-12-19
US	44498121	RB6O5UNT3G7GU	1551668297	31359607	Deadly Grace	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Excellent Who Done It	In January of 1979, in Havenwood, Minnesota, a fire consumes a lakeside home and the body that was discovered inside. Grace Meade, former British special agent and war widow of Yank, Joe Meade, is now dead. Her daughter Jillian, a Smithsonian historian, is in a psychiatric ward of a local hospital after a suicide attempt. <br />Enter FBI agent Alex Cruz, who wants to interview Jillian Meade, as she is a last-known contact of two British women who were murdered prior to their homes being set afire. Was Jillian responsible for setting the fires in England and at her mother's home despite the fact that the police carried an unconscious Jillian out of Grace's home as the fire raged? While Alex's questions go unanswered, Jillian is not talking to anyone but is furiously writing in a journal provided by her psychiatrist. <br />First begun as a narrative, this read details Alex' progress in his investigation as he comes face to face with the interesting folks of Havenwood, especially Nils Berglund, acting Chief of Police and Jillian's former boyfriend who seems to carry a torch for her still. As the read moves on, every other chapter consists of Jillian's journal, a first person account of her European investigation of her mother's past. The journal entries are cleverly integrated with the main plot line keeping the reader enthralled and continually questing for the answers to Grace Meade's death. <br />And when Agent Cruz is able to access Jillian's journal, he begins to fit together the pieces of the puzzle in this engaging read. Tales of Nazis, British and American spies, and lost German gold add fuel to the fire of this raging inferno. Those who love a well-crafted who-done-it with a thoroughly surprising ending will want to rush out and purchase this read, which is certain to generate new fans for Ms. Smith.	2001-12-19
US	44498121	R3ON4YPR3QQDXQ	0451204786	849201227	Gifts From the Sea	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Definite Keeper	Rachel Best is always watching the sea near Truro, along the Atlantic Coast, searching for her husband lost at sea months before. When a whaleboat washes ashore with a man lying inside, Rachel is almost afraid to hope that the man is Richard, her husband found alive. Unfortunately, the man is Captain Jared Mitchell, sea captain of a whaling vessel who asked to be set adrift from his ship and drank himself into oblivion. <br />Refusing to believe in Richard's death, Rachel doesn't welcome the attraction that she feels for Jared, a big gruff, hairy man so unlike her blonde husband. As Jared recovers in her parents' cabin, he loses his heart to Belle, Rachel's precocious five-year-old daughter. Though incensed that Jared rents her husband's cabin from her family, Rachel can no longer deny her attraction to the handsome captain who has opened his heart to her daughter. Their relationship would be such a sure thing if only Rachel could let go of Richard. Will she be able to let go of the past before it is too late? <br />Full of intense emotion and love scenes set among the tempestuous background of the sea, Ms. Goodger's captivating writing is at its best. And the unanswered questions behind Richard's death add a pleasing element of mystery to this tale. And for those romance readers, who devour romantic tension, prepare for a literal feast as this read thrives on romantic adversity. Though the tension in this read proves to hold the reader's interest, the only drawback is that Rachel and Jared's constantly thinking that the other does not love them gets a little overcooked. However, this is definitely a read to be savored again and again-a keeper.	2001-12-19
US	44498121	R2K359U1523PKB	0843949422	899481619	Eden	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining Civil War Era Historical	In 1863 New Orleans, Eden LeGrand leads a dual life. Though she is a volunteer at the Homeless Haven Orphans' Asylum, she is also aiding covert confederate operations. When Reverend Logan Matthews stops some Yankee thugs from harming Eden and the children at the orphanage, she sees in him her knight in shining armor. Their mutual attraction is an obstacle to Logan, who is in reality a Yankee spy searching for his missing brother. <br />In a somewhat predictable turn of events, Logan and Eden are forced to marry to save her reputation. Though passion-filled nights follow, Logan knows that all to soon, their idyll will have to end, as he plans a trap for Adrian Forrester, a suspected reb spy who runs the orphanage. Can their marriage be saved when Logan reveals his true purpose to Eden who sees their life together as nothing but lies and deception? <br />The attraction between Eden and Logan and their sizzling love scenes keep the reader questing for more in this entertaining historical. While the characters, at times, seem to lack depth, the engaging plot appears to make up for this shortcoming. Fans of Civil War era romances will definitely want to check this one out.	2001-12-14
US	44498121	R3K8X8VZJWETJ8	1551668297	31359607	Deadly Grace	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent Who-Done-It	In January of 1979, in Havenwood, Minnesota, a fire consumes a lakeside home and the body that was discovered inside. Grace Meade, former British special agent and war widow of Yank, Joe Meade, is now dead. Her daughter Jillian, a Smithsonian historian, is in a psychiatric ward of a local hospital after a suicide attempt. <br />Enter FBI agent Alex Cruz, who wants to interview Jillian Meade, as she is a last-known contact of two British women who were murdered prior to their homes being set afire. Was Jillian responsible for setting the fires in England and at her mother's home despite the fact that the police carried an unconscious Jillian out of Grace's home as the fire raged? While Alex's questions go unanswered, Jillian is not talking to anyone but is furiously writing in a journal provided by her psychiatrist. <br />First begun as a narrative, this read details Alex' progress in his investigation as he comes face to face with the interesting folks of Havenwood, especially Nils Berglund, acting Chief of Police and Jillian's former boyfriend who seems to carry a torch for her still. As the read moves on, every other chapter consists of Jillian's journal, a first person account of her European investigation of her mother's past. The journal entries are cleverly integrated with the main plot line keeping the reader enthralled and continually questing for the answers to Grace Meade's death. <br />And when Agent Cruz is able to access Jillian's journal, he begins to fit together the pieces of the puzzle in this engaging read. Tales of Nazis, British and American spies, and lost German gold add fuel to the fire of this raging inferno. Those who love a well-crafted who-done-it with a thoroughly surprising ending will want to rush out and purchase this read, which is certain to generate new fans for Ms. Smith.	2001-12-11
US	44498121	R4IZPCA6QUJ6V	0451204786	849201227	Gifts From the Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Definite Keeper	Rachel Best is always watching the sea near Truro, along the Atlantic Coast, searching for her husband lost at sea months before. When a whaleboat washes ashore with a man lying inside, Rachel is almost afraid to hope that the man is Richard, her husband found alive. Unfortunately, the man is Captain Jared Mitchell, sea captain of a whaling vessel who asked to be set adrift from his ship and drank himself into oblivion. <br />Refusing to believe in Richard's death, Rachel doesn't welcome the attraction that she feels for Jared, a big gruff, hairy man so unlike her blonde husband. As Jared recovers in her parents' cabin, he loses his heart to Belle, Rachel's precocious five-year-old daughter. Though incensed that Jared rents her husband's cabin from her family, Rachel can no longer deny her attraction to the handsome captain who has opened his heart to her daughter. Their relationship would be such a sure thing if only Rachel could let go of Richard. Will she be able to let go of the past before it is too late? <br />Full of intense emotion and love scenes set among the tempestuous background of the sea, Ms. Goodger's captivating writing is at its best. And the unanswered questions behind Richard's death add a pleasing element of mystery to this tale. And for those romance readers, who devour romantic tension, prepare for a literal feast as this read thrives on romantic adversity. Though the tension in this read proves to hold the reader's interest, the only drawback is that Rachel and Jared's constantly thinking that the other does not love them gets a little overcooked. However, this is definitely a read to be savored again and again-a keeper.	2001-12-08
US	44498121	R2J419MSQY9LDZ	0380819627	424656513	In My Wildest Dreams (Governess Brides, Book 4)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Cleverly-Written Historical	Ms. Dodd once again revisits the Distinguished Academy of Governesses in this delightful and thoroughly enjoyable historical.<br />    The year is 1847, and four years have passed since Celeste Milford, the gardener's daughter, left Blythe Hall in Suffolk, England.  After receiving training as a governess and traveling the globe in that capacity, Celeste returns to be the governess to Mr. Garrick Throckmorton's young charges.  As she continues her quest to capture the heart of Ellery, the blonde-blue-eyed younger son, Celeste has numerous encounters with Garrick, the staid older brother.  But hilarity and more deep-seated emotions follow as Celeste realizes that maybe Ellery isn't her soul mate, after all.  And Garrick's planned seduction of Celeste to keep her from Ellery and his betrothed threatens to overwhelm his carefully controlled persona.<br />    With a possible spy in their midst and Celeste's ability to translate the Russian language, she unknowingly becomes Garrick's pawn in a dangerous game.  Only Ms. Dodd's clever prose could convince the reader that Celeste has a total change of heart towards Garrick as she begins to rethink her life-long infatuation of Ellery.  <br />    As Ms. Dodd has the unique ability to combine humor with sensuality, her latest is one of her best yet, full of steamy romance and a refreshing dose of quirky situations.  And for readers weary of the most handsome hero always attracting the heroine, Celeste's attraction to Garrick becomes a true lesson in love, as she proves that beauty is more than skin deep.	2001-12-04
US	44498121	R7CX4LZFHH517	0821769944	831947530	A Gentleman's Bargain	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Pleasing Historical	In 1887 San Francisco, Claire Aldrich finds herself running short of funds. After her elderly employer passed away in Cincinnati, Claire ventured to San Francisco to find her brother, Donald, her only living relative. A twist of fate brings Claire to the Landauer Hotel where she seeks to find employment. But the part owner of the hotel, banker Garrett Monroe, meets Claire and finds her the perfect solution to his dilemma. <br />With his grandmother's failing heart, Garrett feels a duty to succumb to her pressure to get married. If Claire will agree to pose as his fianc, he will hire a private investigator to locate her missing brother. Having no desire to marry, Garrett is surprised at the feelings that Claire seems to awaken in him. While she is staying with his grandmother at his home on Nob Hill, Garrett finds it difficult to stay away from her and decides that he would like to make her his mistress when their charade is concluded. But Claire will be no man's mistress, even as she fights not to be swayed by Garrett's powers of seduction. <br />While the attraction and subsequent love scenes between Garrett and Claire are both passionate and steamy, the characters lack the depth that would catapult this read above the ordinary. Garrett is portrayed as the typical male hero, tall, dark, rich, and handsome and chock full of arrogance. And Claire is the nave, yet feisty virgin. Though many superior novels contain characters of this ilk, the personalities in outstanding romances are so complex and many-layered thereby turning the read from run of the mill to sublime. Overall, though, Ms. Waddell's latest is a pleasing read with a touch of mystery and suspense as the novel draws to its conclusion.	2001-12-02
US	44498121	R2PQ6GPOXDJQ2L	0380815699	162151197	The Nightingale's Song	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Truly Wonderful Historical	New author Kathleen Eschenburg has penned a novel that is proof positive that her work is a superb addition to the romance genre. Ripe with emotion, complex characters, and a poignant love story, Ms. Eschenburg `s debut is a read to be savored. <br />In 1874 Baltimore, Maggie Quinn is a twenty-six-year-old teacher at St Columba's Orphanage. Orphaned at the age of twelve, when her mother died on board a ship from Ireland to America, Maggie found shelter with Father Fitzhugh at the Orphanage. Gordon Kincaid, a Virginia southern gentleman, visits St. Columba's to claim the child he never knew that he had. Five-year-old Clara is a special favorite with Maggie, who has nurtured the young girl since she was an infant. And Maggie is an enigma to Gordon, a man hardened by the brutalities of war, who sees a unique combination of naivet and Irish backbone in Maggie. <br />When Gordon asks Maggie to marry him and accompany him and his daughter to his Virginia estate, Maggie is completely unprepared for what she must face. There is Gordon's difficult twelve-year-old son from his first marriage, bigoted neighboring landowners, and their prejudiced society wives. <br />While adjusting to her new life, Maggie is forced to face her past . Remembering that her real father never married her mother, ostensibly because of class differences, Maggie wonders if she can ever fit into Gordon's world without hurting him in the process. <br />The complex pasts of the hero and heroine add depth to their many-layered personalities. And the vitality of supporting characters such as Sister Bernadette and Father Fitz add the finishing touches to this incredible read. For an emotional read that is certain to keep the reader glued to the pages into the wee hours of the morning, this novel is a sure-fire winner.	2001-11-29
US	44498121	R2R412XCQWZ5ZL	0515132020	724927014	Heaven and Earth (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	102	110	N	N	Terrific Romance with a Dose of Paranormal	In this, the second installment of the Three Sisters Island trilogy, Ms. Roberts has once again hit the jackpot in this clever mix of romance, wit, and witchcraft. <br />Deputy Ripley Todd was a little irritated. Outsider MacAllister Booke had just rented Mia Devlin's yellow cottage for the duration of his stay on Three Sisters Island, off the coast of Massachusetts. Bad enough that Ripley wanted to rent the cottage to escape her home and newlywed brother, Zack, and his likeable wife, Nell. But Mac is visiting to conduct research on witchcraft and its history on the island. As legend would have it, three witches who separated it from the mainland created Three Sisters Island. Nell, Ripley, and Mia are descendants of the original three, only Ripley shows great disdain for the power she was born with. <br />In a crafty mix of the paranormal complete with visions and dreams of the past, Ripley comes face to face with her ancestor and senses a dark force that could destroy all that she holds dear. As the romance between the bookish Mac and Ripley builds, she is forced to let down some of her tough gal defenses and learns to trust him and their love. And the steamy love scenes will melt the pages as Ripley's supernatural powers take her attraction to Mac to a whole new level. Only time will tell if Ripley will join forces with her fellow sisters, Mia and Nell, to bind together and repel the evil that threatens to destroy them as it did their predecessors. <br />Fascinating characters, a picturesque seaside town, and paranormal events form the foundation in this riveting read. Even the romance reader not enamored of the supernatural will find the allure in this latest from Ms. Roberts, who just keeps getting better and better.	2001-11-28
US	44498121	R1L7B2WNN44RST	0312979495	415364412	Tempt Me Twice	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not Her Best	In 1812 England, Kate Talisford and her younger sister, Meg, are forced to move to a smaller dwelling after the death of their father, Professor Henry Talisford. Both girls are startled when Lord Gabriel Kenyon appears on their doorstep after accompanying their father on his expedition to Africa four years prior. Kate is especially embarrassed, recalling her previous declaration of undying love for Gabriel and promised seduction if he would convince her father to abandon his expedition. But Gabriel hasn't forgotten Kate and finds her more attractive than he did four years ago. <br />As he informs the girls that he is now their guardian, he warns them away from Sir Charles Damson. Gabe believes that Sir Charles is responsible for Henry's death and subsequent theft of a valuable artifact that Henry discovered. Romantic tension sizzles between Gabriel and Kate as Meg and Kate accompany Gabriel to his grandmother's estate and begin their search for the missing artifact. <br />Though the love scenes are sufficiently steamy, the romance seems a little contrived as Gabriel hardly seems the type of man to carry a torch for a sixteen-year-old girl for four years and then give up his wandering for her. And, while Yasmin's reappearance in England could tie up some loose ends and supply some angst to Gabe and Kate's relationship, the reader is left in the dark concerning the exotic Yasmin's seduction of Gabriel and subsequent association with Sir Charles. Fans of this author will recognize Gabriel as the younger brother of Michael, the hero in ROMANCING THE ROGUE. Avid readers of Ms. Dawson Smith shouldn't be too disappointed with her latest read, but it probably won't generate a lot of new fans.	2001-11-25
US	44498121	R1IBBXFSDC60HV	0553581236	587754980	The Perfect Princess	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Page-turning Regency	Ms. Thornton delivers yet again, in a flawless combination of romance, suspense, and mystery in this page-turning regency. <br />Lady Rosamund Devere, daughter of a duke, is seriously bored with her courtship by Prince Michael of Kolnbourg. Turning down his proposal, she sees no end to her life as a duke's daughter, always-deferential treatment thereby increasing her feeling of isolation. On a whim, Rosamund accompanies her friend, Callie, to Newgate to visit Richard Maitland, a former chief of the Special Branch sentenced to hang for committing a brutal murder. Believing in his innocence, Callie decides to provide Maitland with moral support on the eve of his hanging. As events go awry, Rosamund is caught in the crossfire and becomes Maitland's hostage as he engineers his escape. <br />Thrown together in a wild chase across the English countryside, Richard and Rosamund are drawn to each other despite their difficult circumstances. Ever the loner, Richard discovers respect and trust for the woman who nurses him back to health as she begins to believe in his innocence. Though their relationship could be strained by class differences, Ms. Thornton has cleverly engineered a common ground upon which their attraction can thrive. <br />Complete with all the elements of superb regency, Ms. Thornton's latest includes the tortured hero and the sheltered, but resilient heroine. With the inclusion of the subtle and deliciously evolving mystery as Maitland strives to clear his name, this read quickly evolves into a historical that is definitely a cut above the rest. And the love scenes, while powerful, are not very explicit, thereby satisfying those regency readers who wish to stay true to that sub-genre.	2001-11-21
US	44498121	R30NOYFB4Q2F8P	1575667878	933960891	Moonlight Becomes Her	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Captivating Romance	Ms. McKinney once again proves her status as a leader of the romance genre in this captivating tale of redemption and revenge. <br />In 1883 New York City, Mystere Rillieux is a toasted member of the Four Hundred, the elite of the city. Along with her Uncle Paul, she is able to bewitch those around her. Unknown to her social acquaintances, though, Mystere is actually the mysterious thief, Lady Moonlight, who has committed jewel thefts under the very noses of the wealthiest. <br />But railroad magnate, Rafael Belloch , is more than suspicious that Mystere is the masked woman that robbed him two years prior. When Rafe discovers that Mystere and her \\"uncle\\" aren't exactly who they appear to be, he must decide whether to expose them, even as he is powerless to stop his attraction to Mystere. And the attraction between Rafe and Mystere is a highlight of this novel- constant sparring and evasion of their true feelings lends a volatile aspect to their relationship keeping the reader glued to the pages. So while Rafe must decide whether to destroy the very society that abandoned his parents, Mystere must choose whether to leave thieving and Paul behind, and continue searching for her missing brother, Bram. <br />Ms. McKinney's latest is a historical that is sure to please the most discerning of romance readers. With the addition of supporting characters such as the high societal matriarch, Caroline Astor, the lines between true personality and society personality are carefully blurred. Even Rafe and Mystere can't always tell whether the other is speaking their true feelings or only spouting what society wants to hear. And the intrigue of the missing Bram and Mystere's true identity, though only partially explored in this novel, leaves the reader questing for more answers in an apparent sequel to this read.	2001-11-18
US	44498121	R22NXVLR69BLM6	0385315279	983256815	The Fiery Cross	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Fantastic Epic Novel	In this fifth installment in the Outlander Series, Ms. Gabaldon once again wows readers and fans alike as they come face to face with the eighteenth century world of Jamie and Claire Fraser. <br />Time-traveler Claire is now firmly ensconced in the year of 1770, after making her last trip through the stones in the 1960's. Claire is now a physician and living on Fraser's Ridge in North Carolina with Jamie, their daughter Brianna, her husband Roger, and their son Jemmy. But colonial tempers are on the rise as the governor calls Jamie to lead a militia against possible insurrection. As Claire and Roger accompany Jamie and his troops, Brianna, Jemmy, and the other inhabitants of Fraser's Ridge are left to care for the land. Ms. Gabaldon pulls no punches as she expertly relays the tragedies and triumphs of the times, from the realism of death and disease to the love between Jamie and Claire, which transcends space and time. <br />Intricately woven into the plot line are such adventures, the impact of which will occur later in the reading of the novel. For instance, the importance of a slave's demise at Aunt Jocasta's wedding celebration or the discovery of an abandoned baby at Claire and Jamie's campfire are seemingly minor events, which will become important as the journey unfolds. A born story-teller, Ms. Gabaldon has the unique ability to transport the reader to another place and time, as if they are, too, living in the eighteenth century. The only disappointment occurs when the novel is finished, and the reader is forced to part with the enigmatic Jamie and his resilient wife Claire only to eagerly anticipate the next chapter of their life-long journey together.	2001-11-12
US	44498121	R1UCWCOQSDSJEQ	0312869967	158131111	Knight Errant (War of the Roses)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fantastic Time Travel Romance	As a time travel novel that is sure to please, this fictional work embraces such a vividly detailed description of medieval life that the reader is transported back in time along with the heroine. <br />Robyn Stafford, young Hollywood executive, decides to surprise her British boyfriend, Collin, by flying to England to share in his birthday celebration. Imagine her surprise when his wife, Bryn, is also at the celebration. After lodging with Collin's sister, Jo, and her daughter, Joy, Robyn decides to hike near the Welsh border only to meet a fifteenth century knight who is Edward Plantagenet, earl of March. After a brush with Edward's enemies and a few moments of passion, Edward leaves Robyn with his white rose, and she returns to Jo's home to share the tale with her. <br />With the aid of a witch, Robyn is transported back to 1460 England, where she encounters evildoers and ancestors of Collin, Jo, and Joy. Forced to travail England on foot and horseback before she is reunited with Edward, Robyn is faced with tremendous adventure and not a little danger. <br />Combining a history lesson of the War of the Roses with this narrative tale, the reader is treated to a realistic view of medieval life, complete with unthinkable sanitary practices and lice-ridden food. As the mysteries of witchcraft are creatively explored, Robyn learns her new craft from medieval friends Jo and Joy. And the notion of a fairy-tale prince is kept alive in Edward, the man of every woman's dreams-sensitive, kind, fair, and handsome. Readers will be reluctant to part with Robyn and Edward and will eagerly anticipate the next two installments in this fantastic epic series.	2001-11-06
US	44498121	R2QUCSJGDYAK8V	0743412753	147232801	No Way Out	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Superb Romantic Suspense	In Ms. Kane's latest, the suspense just gets better and better as the plot thickens, and there are more sinister characters than previously thought possible.<br />Mystery and evil are prevalent forces, even in the town of Leaf Brook, New York, a suburb of New York City. Second-grade teacher Julia Talbot is very observant when it comes to children, and she senses a change in Brian Stratford, Mayor Stephen Stratford's son. Brian's withdrawal could possibly mean that things at home aren't as they should be, but Connor Stratford, Brian's uncle, refuses to confide in Julia, even as their attraction mounts.<br />But, when Brian's favorite baseball cap goes missing, and his missed schooldays turns into an indefinite school vacation, Julia becomes really concerned. Though she has continued seeing Connor, she becomes heartbroken when she discovers that he may have been using her so that she won't pry into the indomitable Stratford family saga.<br />Using her magic wand of creativity, Ms. Kane carefully combines the undercurrents running throughout this novel. Just how is Stephen's gambling problem related to Phillip Walker's bid to rent and police the city's municipal parking lots? Will Stephen be able to keep alive his hardnosed father's dream for him and run for State Senate, at the very least? And will the threats against Stephen's family become reality?<br />Along with the undercurrents is a very classy romance between Connor, the jaded venture capitalist, and Julia, the idealistic elementary school teacher. The attraction is superb, with just the amount of tension to keep the reader's interest. One of her best yet, Ms. Kane's latest is sure to keep the reader hooked.	2001-10-30
US	44498121	R2B70TTTYCJPXB	1551668440	933517522	Snowfall	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Superb Romantic Suspense	A beautiful author, a mysterious serial killer, and a hunky bodyguard are just a few of the elements that make this novel superb romantic suspense. Caitlin Bennett, wealthy mystery writer, has been receiving threatening letters, which don't seem serious to the police until she is pushed into the path of an oncoming truck. When her editor Aaron Workman learns of her \\"accident\\", he contacts his stepbrother, ex-cop and security company owner Connor McKee. <br />Upon Caitlin's release from the hospital, Connor returns with her to her New York penthouse apartment to install a security system and keep guard over her. Connor and Caitlin have never gotten along and continue to struggle to be civil to each other as Caitlin's letters become more threatening. When the police become involved and a link between Caitlin's case and several murders becomes apparent, Connor becomes more protective than ever. The evolution of romance between Caitie and Mac is rather inventive as intense animosity turns to desire. Can Mac protect Caitlin from the unknown threat before it is too late? <br />Ms. Sala has penned an intensely suspenseful novel with both depth and substance. Supporting characters abound including Aaron the editor, Kenny, the publicist, and several of New York's finest (police). With skillful writing, suspects are carefully eliminated from list of possible criminals until the reader is left with only one likely perpetrator. And the connection between Caitlin and the evildoer is intricately woven into the plot line and adds another dimension to this read. For sure-fire romantic suspense, Ms. Sala's latest can't be beat.	2001-10-29
US	44498121	R2LSIRZWB0ZUUP	0821770918	507284609	No Place For A Lady (Zebra Historical Romance)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Wonderful Western Historical	In 1888, Lady Elizabeth Summersby leaves London to travel to Colorado where she is to wed Dirk Ballinger, the father of her unborn child.  Though they only met once at a London ball months ago, Dirk agreed by letter to marry Elizabeth upon her arrival at his ranch. But the stage on which Lady Elizabeth is traveling with her maid, Molly Riordan, is held up, and Ray Lovejoy, half-brother to Dirk, kidnaps the pregnant lady.<br />   Thinking that Molly is a disoriented Lady Elizabeth, Dirk marries her after he discovers her at the site of the abandoned coach.  When he discovers her true identity, they are already wed, and they are forced to keep her identity a secret as together they search for the kidnapped Lady Elizabeth.  <br />   With the magnificent setting of the Rocky Mountains around them, love evolves between Molly and Dirk, even as his previous promise to Lady Elizabeth threatens to keep them apart.  And along with the romance are several elements of intrigue:  Will Molly find her father?  Just who is the true father of Elizabeth's child?  And where did housekeeper Ida and rancher Clyde meet before Ida came to Ballingers' ranch?<br />    Warm, tender romance with just the right amount of tension makes this a read to be savored.  Molly Riordan's Irish wit and stubbornness make her a heroine to be proud of; as she risks her heart to be with the man she loves.  And Lady Elizabeth, as a supporting character, is colorful in her own right, as she is forced to swallow some of her arrogance to become the woman of her destiny.  Readers will want to keep watch of this rising star of historical romance.	2001-10-28
US	44498121	R19V8ZQJKTQGDV	0312282060	757947270	Murphy's Law (A Molly Murphy Mystery) (Molly Murphy Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Clever and Witty Mystery	First in a new series, this novel follows Irish immigrant Molly Murphy to New York and gives an excellent depiction of immigrant life there at the turn of the twentieth century.  <br />    Molly Murphy is forced to flee her small Irish village when she accidentally kills the local landowner's son who attempts to rape her. Fleeing to England, she comes across Kathleen O'Connor, a woman who is sailing with her two children to America to meet her husband.  As Mrs. O'Connor has tuberculosis and would be refused admission to the U.S., Molly agrees to take her place and escort the children there herself.  But when colorful character O'Malley is murdered after arrival at Ellis Island, and Molly is a prime suspect, she must do her own investigative work to prove her innocence.  <br />    As the reader shares in Molly's discovery of the sights and smells of early twentieth century New York, Molly travels the wintry city on foot searching for clues to the identity of the murderer.  The only advantage she discovers in her new land is her acquaintance with Detective Daniel Sullivan, the handsome Irish-American who first considered her a suspect.  In a clever combination of wit and mystery, Molly seems to get in one scrape after another, only to be bailed out by the attractive police captain.  As it becomes apparent that Molly's life may be in danger, the reader is left to wonder if Daniel can save her in time.  <br />    Ms. Bowen can do no wrong with a heroine as likeable as Molly with her combination of clever wit, curiosity, and determination.  Lessons of history relating to corruption of Tammany Hall and the poverty of many immigrants are pleasingly inserted in the storyline to lend an air of reality to the read.  With true mystery, colorful characters, and a splash of romance, future installments in this series can be eagerly anticipated.	2001-10-27
US	44498121	R22SHQKQ2RHHLZ	0446609625	397950675	Under Suspicion	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mystery with a Touch of Romance	Museum curator Anna Lundgren is excited about the new Mayan exhibit-she is hoping that the newest acquisition will be a success. However, she becomes a little disturbed when a local reporter, Reed Howell, dredges up Pocal's Curse, a curse on the exhibited jade dagger discovered at an ancient burial site. Howell also suggests that the curse could follow Anna, as her father was killed in an earthquake sixteen years ago near the burial site where he was working. <br />With the murder of museum security guard Eddy Malacek and the theft of the jade dagger, suspicion falls on Anna. Clarence Tebbins, Tampa P.D., and Gil Garcia, St. Pete P.D., begin working the investigation. As clues consistently point to Anna, she becomes the prime suspect. Even when Gil discovers someone running away from Anna's home, he and Tebbins believe that she may be working with an accomplice. Their continued suspicion of Anna sometimes borders on the absurd, especially when she suffers a knife wound after being attacked. <br />The continuing mystery surrounding the disappearance of the dagger, heavily guarded by a top-notch security system, adds another element to this read. And the appearance of Nancy, Anna's identical twin, is especially appealing when the two agree to switch identities in an effort to unbalance the murderer and thief. The reader is left with the ultimate question-can the killer be found before he decides to end the curse in the only way he knows how, by extracting the beating heart of the descendants of the one who initiated the curse, a.k.a. Nancy and Anna Lundgren? <br />Ancient artifacts, a mysterious museum theft, and spooky curses definitely add to the allure of this novel. Never knowing where the killer will turn up next, the reader is kept glued to the spine tingling pages. While the mystery is more than adequate, the romance between Gil and Anna is rather short-changed considering that this novel is billed as a romance. Readers wanting the scales tipped in favor of mystery over romance will not be disappointed.	2001-10-21
US	44498121	RCAHO9OQT7LIJ	0399148248	358896248	Midnight Bayou	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fabulous Romance with a Touch of Paranormal	Ms. Roberts' latest, in a long line of best-sellers, is sure to be a hit-how can it miss with romance, a haunted plantation house, and a tale of long-ago murder and betrayal. <br />Declan Fitzgerald is bored with his life in Boston. Having recently broken it off with his fianc, he decides to ditch his law career and purchase Manet Hall, an old plantation home near New Orleans. He first visited there when he and his college buddy, Remy, entered the dilapidated mansion years ago. Employing his woodworking skills, Declan starts renovation of the mansion. <br />Not long after he moves in, strange things begin to happen. Doors slam, clocks chime, and a baby cries. With the help of Miss Odette, a neighbor in the bayou, and research in history books, Declan is able to discover that the house has a dark history. Near the turn of the century, Abigail, a young Cajun servant, married Lucian Manet, heir to the estate. Their life together is cut short, when, shortly after the birth of their child, Abigail is discovered missing, and matriarch Josephine implements the rumor that Abigail ran off with a man who later killed her. Brokenhearted, Lucian \\"accidentally\\" drowns, and his twin, Julian, also dies young. <br />When Declan meets Lena, descendant of Abby's daughter Marie Rose, and granddaughter of Odette, he is completely mesmerized. She is the owner of a New Orleans bar and everything he ever wanted in a woman-she's smart, tough, and beautiful. Although the attraction is mutual, Lena guards her heart, as she senses that her feelings for Declan could lead to heartache. <br />Even as the reader is treated to glimpses of the 1899 Manet Hall, Declan begins dreaming of it. Cleverly interspersed with present day events is Declan's ability to feel and sense Abby's distress as he dreams of long-forgotten times. Lena, too, has eerie dreams and encounters of the past, and in an unusual twist, she senses Lucian's thoughts of old. As Declan and Lena face their desire for one another, will fate intervene a second time, and separate the lovers forever? <br />Ms. Roberts' latest is a sure-fire winner. The mysteries of the bayou abound as the ghosts tell the tales of forgotten times. Hauntings seem to increase as the renovations progress, and emotions between Declan and Lena hit an all-time high. Some readers may have trouble with the idea of reincarnation, especially with Abby living in Declan, and Lucian in Lena. However, the wonderful flow of the narrative, rich with fascinating characters, definitely outweighs any aversion to a twist on the paranormal.	2001-10-17
US	44498121	R3DNJLFEL1RMLK	0066211085	43010755	Rebecca's Tale: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb Mystery	In this novel following in the footsteps of the famous REBECCA by Daphne du Maurier, Manderley is revisited in 1951, twenty years following Rebecca's death. <br />Colonel Julyan, former magistrate for the districts of Kerrith and Manderley, had previously been involved in the inquest where Rebecca's death was ruled a suicide thereby exonerating her husband, Maxim de Winter. When a mysterious parcel arrives bearing Rebecca's notebook along with a postcard of her as a young child, the Colonel is forced to recreate his memories of Rebecca and Manderley where she lived. Adding to the reopening of old wounds is the presence of outsider Terence Gray, who seems to have a single-minded interest in the mystery of Rebecca's death. <br />As Mr. Gray becomes the talk of Kerrith, and spinster ladies link him to Ellie, the Colonel's unmarried daughter, the Colonel receives more interesting parcels. Ellie, Gray, and Julyan are caught up in a web that is so intricate in its weave, the reader will not want to miss a word of their tale as hidden truths of the past are disclosed. Gray leads the reader on a merry journey in his quest for self-discovery leading to Rebecca and her haunting legacy. From her journals and first-person accounts of encounters with Rebecca, she remains as much an enigma as she did in Ms. du Maurier's novel. <br />As the intensity of this read increases, so does the complexity of its characters. Those inhabitants of Manderley, who appear at first very commonplace, become so much more as the many layers of their personalities are carefully revealed. For a superbly crafted read with much mystery, some romance, and a pinch of the paranormal, REBECCA'S TALE is a must-read.	2001-10-16
US	44498121	RT2BNF4A5X6LL	1551668378	189431499	Halfway To Heaven	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Wonderful Lyrical Romance	Author Susan Wiggs departs from the Great Chicago Fire setting of her recent novels and takes the reader on a journey to late nineteenth century Washington. There, the reader is treated to a heart-warming romance and a bird's -eye view of the politics of the times. <br />Miss Abigail Cabot, daughter of Senator Franklin Cabot, seems to be an utter social failure, always causing some disastrous event at important gatherings. At a recent wedding, her deformed foot nearly gave way just as the scoundrel, Virginia Congressman, Jamie Calhoun, rescued her. <br />Charmer Jamie notices Abby's adoring gaze falling on Lieutenant Boyd Butler, son of the vice-president. But Boyd has eyes only for the beauteous Helena, Abby's sister. As Abby agrees to pen Helena's letters to Boyd, she discloses her heart's innermost feelings, and Boyd falls in love with the letter-writer. Jamie decides to aid Abby in transforming herself into someone desirable by Boyd, even as Jamie shows interest in her studies of astronomy. Jamie's friendship with Abby blossoms, even as he needs to convince himself that he is only acting in his self-interest -to attain the support of Senator Cabot for anti-railroad legislation. <br />Rounding out this intelligent romance are supporting characters such as Professor Rowan, neighborly nutty professor and object of Helena's desire as well as Princess Layla, the woman who had chipped away at Jamie's heart. <br />Ms. Wiggs has set her romance apart from the rest as she alludes to the secrets in Jamie and Abby's hearts that they must unravel as the surface tension between the two leads to a deeper emotion. In a genre where beauty is often paramount, Abby and Jamie's view into each other's souls is augmented only by their support of each other's most passionate causes. For a lovely lyrical read, Ms. Wiggs' latest creation is not to be missed.	2001-10-13
US	44498121	R57U591G7G21X	0399147799	501345308	Death In Paradise (Jesse Stone Novels)	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Superb Mystery	Robert B. Parker once again scores a winning run with his third novel in the Jesse Stone series. Former L.A. homicide detective Jesse Stone is now Chief of Police in Paradise, Massachusetts after alcohol ruined both his detective job and his marriage. When the body of a young girl is found in a lake during one of Jesse's softball games, Chief Stone must use his well-honed investigative skills to find the killer. <br />Just as Jesse feels the need to lead his softball team (he once played in the minors), he must lead his police force in his quest to find the killer of the unidentified girl. Just to name a few on the force, there is Molly, with her Irish-Catholic sense of humor, a perfect combination with Jesse's dry wit. And Suitcase Simpson is only too eager to please his Chief though his experience with surveillance is nil. <br />As Jesse follows the trail of clues to discover the murderer's identity, his personal life is carefully revealed. His dependent relationship with his ex-wife, Jenn, is inextricably intertwined with his alcohol problem. And there is Lilly, the high school principal he is seeing seemingly to avoid loneliness. <br />Mr. Parker has penned another sure success, one of his best yet. The mystery is nothing short of excellent, as previously unrelated characters become suspects caught in a web that begins to unravel as their connection to each other is exposed. And Jesse is portrayed as a very real hero, a man who seems rather sure of himself to his peers and to women, but a man who battles quite a few demons in private.	2001-10-11
US	44498121	R1K4HEH50PDB2A	0515131679	175740429	The Gingerbread Man	Books	5	121	129	N	N	Romantic Suspense in the Truest Sense	In a departure from the fantasy element of earlier novels, Ms. Shayne has delivered one of her best yet, a novel rich with spine-tingling mystery and an abundance of suspense. <br />Syracuse police detective Vince O'Mally oversteps the bounds of his profession and becomes too involved in his latest case. Two children are found murdered, and the only clue he discovers is an old library edition of THE GINGERBREAD MAN. That one clue leads him to Dilmun, New York, a small town on Cayuga Lake. <br />There, Vince encounters Holly Newman, last-known borrower of THE GINGERBREAD MAN, and secretary to the Dilmun Chief of Police. Vince and Holly's paths keep crossing, and he senses that she could provide a connection to his recent case. Holly, deftly portrayed as the fragile, yet strong heroine, can't decide whether she is attracted to or disturbed by the very forthright Vince. <br />Suddenly, many of Holly's old fears return as strange happenings grip the town of Dilmun leaving Holly and Vince in the eye of the storm. With a truly skillful manifestation of clues and possible suspects, the reader is kept guessing as much as any of the players. As Holly and Vince get closer to the truth and to each other, an eerily familiar series of events forces Holly to come to terms with her past. Can they catch the killer before it is too late? <br />In some novels, the suspense is over long before the book is finished. Not so in this case, as the answer to \\"who done it?\\" is made known when it should be, at the novel's conclusion. The nail-biting conclusion will leave readers white-knuckled for some time to come. <br />True romance readers won't be disappointed, either, as the love scenes become more memorable because they are not overplayed. With sizzling love scenes and suspense that just won't quit, Ms. Shayne has created a praise-worthy novel truly deserving of its classification as romantic suspense.	2001-10-03
US	44498121	RFBYY7Q3VWLSY	0449005186	956472087	The Bride of Willow Creek	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Western Historical	Humorous, sensitive, and emotional are but a few terms used to describe this latest read by Ms. Osborne, who seems to have a special knack when it comes to western historicals.  <br />    Angie Bertoli Holland was furious when Sam Holland left her in Chicago, shortly after their elopement ten years ago.  When her domineering father refused to accept their marriage, Angie let Sam leave for undisclosed locations in the west.  But when Angie finds herself penniless and homeless after her parents' deaths, she goes to Willow Creek, Colorado to find Sam and seek a divorce.  <br />    True to romance novel form, both Sam and Angie blame the other for the unfortunate turn of events ten years ago.  However, spice is added to the pot when Angie discovers there is no place to stay while awaiting the divorce except with Sam and his two young daughters, Lucy and Daisy.  <br />    Providing complexity to Angie's character is her daily struggle with her feelings for Sam as well as loving his endearing children and coming to terms with Laura, their dead mother.  And she and Sam are both faced with the ultimate decision of all, whether to repeat their mistakes of ten years ago or swallow their pride and reach for the brass ring.  <br />    The interesting cast of supporting characters, from the neighborly Molly and Can Johnson of Willow Creek to the Govenors, Laura's wealthy controlling parents, further enhances this read.  Following in the footsteps of SILVER LINING and I DO, I DO, I DO, Ms. Osborne's latest is not to be missed.	2001-10-02
US	44498121	RHSSMGN968XTY	0446527785	916864624	A Bend in the Road	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Terrific Novel of Love and Loss	Best-selling author Nicolas Sparks delivers once again in this heartwarming tale of tears and triumph. <br />As a young widower, Miles Ryan finds little joy in life as a deputy sheriff in the small town of New Bern, North Carolina. Forced to raise his young son, Jonah, alone, Miles was devastated when two years prior, his wife Missy was killed in a hit and run auto accident. Because the killer was never found, Miles has never found closure as evidenced by the file he keeps on Missys death. <br />Life seems to improve for Miles when he meets Sarah Andrews, Jonahs new teacher. Though Sarah was hurt by her previous divorce, she sees Miles as someone she could trust. Miles and Sarahs attraction to one another is both gradual and realistic as they begin to emerge from their old fears and heartaches. <br />In a heart wrenching and clever twist of fate, circumstances intervene and threaten to destroy this couples newfound happiness. Emotions ride high as the reader is kept guessing until the last page is finished as to whether love can really overcome all. <br />A BEND IN THE ROAD is a fine addition to a long list of previous best-selling novels. With memorable characters facing real life problems, readers will be reluctant to part with Miles and Sarah as their story comes to a gripping conclusion.	2001-09-28
US	44498121	RLIPNPRS9B0R7	0843949082	82672764	To Meet Again	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting twist on the historical	Established author, Elaine Barbieri, has written another romantic saga of two lovers destined to be together. <br />Thea Radcliffe leaves the Georgia clay behind as she travels to Wyoming in 1882 to live with her aunt, Victoria. Still devastated by the loss of her fianc, Wade, as he was shot at the altar two years prior, Victoria plans to start anew. But, in a romantic twist of fate, the stagecoach on which Thea is traveling is robbed, and the robber's eyes are the same as Wade's. And when he shows up at Dr. Victoria's door, injured and needing assistance, the resemblance is uncanny. <br />Thea must reconcile her feelings for Wade with Quinn Banning, an outlaw and a dead ringer for her deceased fianc. Though many historicals address the concepts of love and loss, few heroines face finding a new love that looks identical to the lost one. In a clever reawakening, Thea must find the strength to love Quinn Banning, the whole man, the outlaw, as he is the man who loves her in return. <br />Subplots of romance between supporting characters as well as mini-mystery searching for stolen gold add another dimension to this read. Additionally, there is the ever-present doubt as to Quinn's true identity. Fans of Ms. Barbieri won't be disappointed when looking for a pleasing fast-paced romance.	2001-09-26
US	44498121	RW6V2Z46AA93V	1551668386	988408599	The Conspiracy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Page-turning Romantic Suspense	Best-selling author Jasmine Cresswell has created another suspenseful thriller complete with an American traitor brokering arms to terrorists. <br />U.S. State Department employee Verity Marlowe has spent the past six months wallowing in self-pity and neglect as well as establishing an ongoing relationship with a bottle of vodka. After her husband Sam's death, Verity began an onward spiral of neglect until the ghost-like appearance of her husband Sam. Though apparitions are rather unconventional in romantic suspense, Sam adds a lighter touch enabling Verity to pull her life back together again. ... <br />Though the discussion of terrorists and middle-eastern politics seems a little too detailed at times, it is a necessity in forming the foundation on which this novel is built. Further enhancing the element of mystery are the discussions that Michael and Verity have as they piece together the puzzle of the traitor's identity and try to discover the motives behind the crimes committed. For a truly gripping tale of espionage and mystery that just doesn't quit, THE CONSPIRACY is a certain winner.	2001-09-23
US	44498121	R3REMZDYZELQFZ	0380808307	474037079	Just Imagine	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Tension-filled Historical	This historical, chronicling the stormy attraction between a Southern woman and a Yankee war hero, is actually a revision of RISEN GLORY published in 1984. <br />At the conclusion of the Civil War, Kit Weston travels from South Carolina to New York to kill the only man that stands between her and Risen Glory, the plantation that she stands to inherit upon his death. Major Baron Cain, Union &#8220;Hero of Missionary Ridge&#8221;, was deeded the plantation by his wayward mother, Rosemary, who also happened to be Kit&#8217;s stepmother. <br />Believing that Kit is a boy, Baron hires her to be his stable boy. When Cain discovers his mistake and learns her true identity, he decides to send Kit away to finishing school. Not only does Risen Glory belong to him, but, in a coincidence true only in romance novels, he is also Kit&#8217;s guardian. <br />Though Kit despises Baron, she agrees to do as he suggests. If not, he has promised that he will sell Risen Glory. But three years later, at the tender age of twenty-one, Kit returns to South Carolina to see the prospering of her plantation. Tension between Cain and Kit is like an electric storm, as they are constantly sparring amidst the sparks of attraction. <br />The cast of supporting characters are the condiments to this Yankee/Southern sandwich. There is Sophronia, a freed former slave and friend of Kit&#8217;s and Magnus, also a freed slave who is both friend and employee to Cain. And one could hardly forget the ever-proper Miss Dolly, Kit&#8217;s slightly batty, aging Southern belle chaperone. <br />In the tradition of the tension filled romance novel, Kit and Baron are the perfect protagonists, coming together in their moments of passion, though they are distant and constantly at each others&#8217; throats any other time. Ms. Phillips weaves a delightful mix of tears, laughter, and passion into this memorable historical, another novel in her growing list of exceptional reads.	2001-09-20
US	44498121	RHVMC53K79H1O	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Terrific Romantic Suspense	Following in the footsteps of HEARTBREAKER, Ms. Garwood's previous novel of romance and suspense, MERCY pits Theo Buchanan against an unknown evil threatening the life of the beautiful Michelle. <br />Dr. Michelle Renard encounters Theo first at a party in New Orleans where she meets him and subsequently saves his life when she operates to remove his appendix. Michelle enchants Boston-based Justice Department attorney, Theo Buchanan, when he sees her after his surgery. After her father invites him to go fishing in Bowen, Louisiana, Theo travels there only to discover that Michelle's clinic has been ransacked. <br />Enter the subplot-members of the sinister Sowing Club, John, Dallas, Preston, and Cameron, friends forever who amassed a large fortune in shady investment deals. When they become involved in \\"mercy\\" killing, the four need to cover their tracks. Where are the documents that could destroy them? <br />In an intricate plot twist, Michelle becomes the target as the four are given reason to believe that she is the recipient of some documents that could be particularly damaging to them. Can Theo protect her as their two lives become inextricably combined? <br />Ms. Garwood has proven once-again that she has successfully made the crossover from historicals to romantic suspense. The motivation of the Sowing Club becomes increasingly evil as the members lose all notions of morality and will go to any lengths for greed. The scenes are fast-paced, the characters colorful and enigmatic as Michelle and Theo encounter the many dangers of the bayou. For a sure-fire winner, MERCY can't be beat.	2001-09-14
US	44498121	R358VBMM98C902	0553802380	89887514	The Next Accident	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Suspense in the Truest Sense	In her fourth novel, Lisa Gardner has written about a twisted killer who develops a relationship with his victims and then goes in for the kill. <br />FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy isnt convinced that his daughter Mandy was solely responsible for the drunk driving accident in which she was killed. So Quincy hires P.I. Rainie Conner, a former cop whom he had previously worked with in Washington State. Though a past relationship between the two is cleverly hinted at, the nature of their involvement remains a mystery as the story line develops. <br />When Rainie arrives in Virginia to investigate Mandys accident, she discovers that there was someone in the car with Mandy when she died. Soon, Quincy begins receiving threatening phone calls. The victim count climbs as their connection to Quincy is established. In a plot cleverly crafted with twists and turns, Quincy is almost incontrovertibly linked to the crimes. Will he be able to anticipate the killers next move before he claims another victim? <br />With terrifyingly satisfying suspense, this novel is the quintessential example of a fabulous thriller. Until the mystery is uncovered in the final chapter, it is totally unclear as to the identity of the culprit. Brilliant in its execution and plot development, THE NEXT ACCIDENT is a novel not soon to be forgotten.	2001-09-12
US	44498121	RZGG1FR2EZCX5	044023655X	631228888	Kiss of the Highlander (The Highlander Series, Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fantastic Time-travel Romance	As Ms. Moning's fourth novel, KISS OF THE HIGHLANDER is a time-travel transporting the reader back and forth between the sixteenth century and the present one. <br />Gwen Cassidy embarks on a tour of Scotland hoping to find a man in the process. Instead, she finds herself in the midst of nicotine withdrawal on a bus filled with senior citizens. While hiking, she falls through a hidden hole into some type of cavern and lands on a man. As she examines him, she discovers that he is not dead but merely sleeping. <br />Awakened after a five hundred year slumber, Drustan MacKeltar attempts to convince Gwen that he is truly from the past, but she merely thinks him a little addled, though he is the most attractive man she has ever seen. A healthy dose of humor combined with sizzling attraction makes for some irresistible reading as Gwen and Drustan go clothes shopping and rent a car to take him back to the castle that was once his home. <br />With eerie mysticism, Drustan, as a druid, is able to catapult the two back in time to discover what happened to his clan. The sparring between Drustan and Gwen is fast-paced and ripe with innuendo as Gwen tries to convince the sixteenth century version of Drustan that she traveled five hundred years back in time with him. Will their love prevail, as the intricacies of time travel seem a constant impediment? <br />Ms. Moning has written a truly original novel carefully combining love and laughter in such a manner as to make this a fantastic read. As the air crackles with attraction between Drustan and Gwen, they learn to discover a common ground between them, as they are truly centuries apart. Readers can eagerly anticipate DARK HIGHLANDER, the story of Dageus, Drustan's twin brother	2001-09-09
US	44498121	R5P0NPCQ4YABF	0451204492	6275646	The Promise	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A Historical with Memorable Characters	Moving from medieval Scotland to eighteenth century England, co-authors Jim and Nikoo McGoldrick have penned a novel, which will certainly elevate their popularity in the genre of historical romance. <br />Rebecca Neville was forced to flee London in 1760 for fear that she had accidentally killed her lecherous employer, Sir Charles Hartington. Fortuitously, she is almost run down by a passing carriage whose lone occupant decides to help her. Elizabeth Wakefield needs a companion and asks Rebecca to aid her in her journey to the colonies with her newborn son, James. Weak from childbirth, Elizabeth does not survive the voyage, and Rebecca is forced to raise James on her own. <br />Employing the skills she obtained at Mrs. Stockdale's Academy for Girls, Rebecca is able to make ends meet for herself and Jamey. She also skillfully fends off any amorous advances by inventing a fictitious Mr. Ford, her now deceased husband. Though Rebecca is a woman to be greatly admired for her ingenuity and fortitude, she is at times a little too sweet, with no apparent faults. <br />Nevertheless, Rebecca does well for herself and Jamey until ten years later when an agent of his father's tracks her to Philadelphia and asks that the boy return to England to live with his father, Samuel Wakefield, Earl of Stanmore. Rebecca travels to England to make sure that James is well settled and meets the coolly aloof Stanmore. <br />The development of the relationship between Rebecca and Stanmore makes this novel a step above many historicals. While Rebecca doesn't initially agree with the manner in which Stanmore relates to his son, she can't help being attracted to him. And while he is at first attracted to her beauty, he slowly begins to see beneath the surface and wants her for more than her physical attractiveness alone. <br />Villainous characters such as Louisa Nisdale, the jealous former lover, and Squire Wentworth, Stanmore's evil neighbor who dabbled in the slave trade, add a sinister element capable of tearing the lovers apart. And the historical depiction of the slave trade provides a unique addition to this novel primarily because the subject is not usually addressed as an eighteenth century English problem. <br />For a sure winner with characters you won't want to leave behind, THE PROMISE can't be beat.	2001-09-05
US	44498121	R10J42MKDEXMX5	0679824243	3669335	Mummies in the Morning (Magic Tree House, No. 3)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Spooky Book	Jack and Annie help Queen of the Nile, Hutepi, travel to the new world.  They helped her find the Book of the Dead and lead her to the Underworld to get her to the next life.<br />  The book was very interesting because Jack and Annie help Hutepi read pictures that make up words.  It was pretty cool to read about a ghost queen that couldn't see very well!	2001-09-02
US	44498121	R962T1QGKAFKX	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fabulous Romantic Suspense	In a unique twist, the title of this novel actually refers to the title of the manuscript submitted to the editor of a publishing company. Throughout this read, we are given excerpts of ENVY, as each chapter is finished and given to Maris Matherly-Reed, editor and daughter of Daniel Matherly, of Matherly Publishing Company. <br />Though Maris discovered the manuscript among a pile of soon-to-be discarded unsolicited manuscripts, she is completely enthralled. She is initially unable to locate the author as he or she only included the initials \\"P.M.E.\\" and the address as St. Anne Island, Georgia. As part of the mystery within a mystery, Maris spends a great deal of time locating this elusive author and trying to delve beneath his gruff exterior. Parker Evans appeals to Maris, though his crassness shines through. The many layers of his personality as well as obvious secrets between him and handyman Mike add another element of mystery. <br />Add to the mix of mysteries, Noah Reed, Maris' husband of almost two years who is yearning to rule Matherly Publishing. His placating attitude towards Maris leads to her unhappiness, and she is not sure that he can be trusted. Even from a reader's perspective, Noah is cannily written as a character that may have a side hidden to the world. <br />As the story line of the manuscript unfolds, it cleverly meshes with the main plot of the novel. Maris makes some great discoveries on St. Anne Island, about herself, Parker, and her relationship with Noah. <br />This unusual work of fiction within fiction makes for a deliciously crafted read. With all the twists and turns of a mountainous road, ENVY will keep the reader hooked until the road levels out on the other side.	2001-08-31
US	44498121	R3FRYS76BEOBHG	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Chillingly Realistic Suspenseful Thriller	Internist Tess Gerritsen's medical knowledge adds an eerie realism to this novel of mystery and suspense. As the lone survivor of serial killer Andrew Capra, Dr. Catherine Cordell escapes the horror she lived in Savannah to go to Boston and starts to put her life back together again. Though she rarely goes anywhere besides the hospital and lives in a very secure apartment, she is able to function very adequately in her position as a surgeon at Pilgrim Medical Center. But her sense of relative security is short-lived as a new serial killer emerges in Boston, and the killings are uncannily similar to those, which occurred in Savannah two years ago. Okay-Andrew Capra is dead, shot by Dr. Cordell, his almost-victim. Thus begins the quest for the new culprit. The endless possibilities add to the allure of this novel: Dr. Cordell, perhaps, a copycat killer, someone avenging Capra's death? Enter Boston's finest, \\"St. Thomas Moore\\", the detective who still brandishes a wedding band two years after the death of his wife, Jane Rizzoli, lone female detective out to prove her worth, Darren Crowe, resident male chauvinist. Moore and Rizzoli are a fine addition to this cast of characters-Moore struggles with his attraction to Catherine while Rizzoli struggles to succeed in a male -dominated profession while trying to understand her jealousy of Catherine. THE SURGEON plays like a finely tuned piano, each chord blending in harmony leading to the final resolution. The skillful use of medical terminology as well as the knowledge of anatomy, while somewhat gruesome, adds a chilling sense of reality to the murders. And, as the clues unfold, leading to the identity of the killer, the reader experiences a sense of dread as to who the next victim will be. Lights will stay on all night for this novel that is impossible to put down, and once finished, you won't want to sleep in the dark.	2001-08-28
US	44498121	R33TKAJM62U741	0440236029	354906424	Lilies on the Lake	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Interesting Plot Falls Short	Though they haven't seen each other in ten years, Portia &quot;Pip&quot; Merriem and John Henry Lovell come face to face again on a houseboat in the middle of the Nile amidst a strife-filled Egypt of 1836. When Portia's companion dies in childbirth, John Henry plays the gallant and steps in to marry Pip and provide for the child.<BR>It is almost inconceivable that John Henry would have pined away for Pip all these years after her last callous treatment of him. Selfish to the core, she believes that John H. married her because of her noble birth (he was only a lowly farmer's son). Pip goes so far as to suggest John H. wants to &quot;humiliate&quot; her by asking her to live in a gatekeeper's house at Manleigh Park where he is the steward.<BR>Portia is such an unlikable heroine that it is difficult to believe that she acts the way she does merely to resist a man controlling her life. Even harder to believe is that she has a sudden and total transformation on Christmas Day making her happy with her life and in love with her husband.<BR>Predictably, that love doesn't seem to last long as soon as Pip sees that John H. hasn't been totally truthful with her. In keeping with her true nature, she refuses to see him and calls him &quot;the most horrible deceitful man on the face of the earth.&quot; While the initial plot shows promise, it seems quite a stretch to think that a self-made man such as John Henry would continue to harbor love for Pip considering her horrible treatment of him years before as well as her abominable behavior towards him after they married. Though the spiritual element adds a nice touch, Pip's lack of humility would seem to preclude her relying on a higher power.	2001-08-26
US	44498121	R3TQ7CB1SM08B1	0515131113	723913230	Season of Storms	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Intense Romantic Suspense	In 1920's Italy, Galeazzo D'Ascanio was unable to see the performance of his wonderful play, Il Prezzo. Celia Sands, his beautiful English mistress and star of the play, vanished without a trace the night before the opening performance. <br />Now, some eighty years later, Alessandro 'Alex' D'Ascanio, grandson of Galeazzo, has contacted Celia Sands, a struggling young English actress, asking that she perform the lead in Il Prezzo, a never performed play. The Forlani Trust is restoring Il Piacere, Galeazzo's magnificent villa on Lake Garda, and the play will be performed at an outdoor theater there. <br />Celia isn't certain that she should take this role, since it appears that she is desired merely because she possesses the same name as the original Celia. But her mentor, pseudo-guardian and director Rupert does his best to quietly persuade Celia to take this part. And Celia ventures off to Italy and the disquiet of Il Piacere. The maid thinks that Celia's room has ghosts of its own even as Celia seems drawn to Alex whose comings and goings lend an air of mystery to the place. Add to the mix Daniela Forlani, whose possessiveness of Alex alludes to Francesca, Galeazzo's wife, who was jealous of his relationship with Celia. <br />Written in the first person, SEASON OF STORMS is a top-notch suspenseful novel that evolves into a truly riveting read. The mystery is not in the form of cliffhangers but a more slow-paced discovery of clues that will fall into place like the pieces of a puzzle. Rich with evocatively descriptive language, SEASON OF STORMS will transport you to another place, where murder and ghosts are a distinct probability.	2001-08-23
US	44498121	RB8W1R09ZZP0P	0525946071	57754926	A Moment in Time	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Somewhat Entertaining Romance	In an effort to placate her mother, Valerie Rochelle decides to accept Teddy de Mornay's marriage proposal. Teddy and Valerie have been dating since college, and Marguerite, Valerie's mother, always assumed that they would marry and join their French Huguenot blood. Val does seem uneasy about the engagement and Teddy's petulance when she has an emergency call at Stonelair, an enormous estate in need of her veterinary services for one of their horses. <br />Much to her surprise, Wyn Conrad, the owner of Stonelair, wants Val to be the only veterinarian to handle the animals at his estate. Though Val's colleagues are somewhat bent out of shape at the notion, they agree to give her carte blanche at Stonelair, considering the profit it would bring. <br />But Val has never seen Mr. Conrad close-up and has always dealt with his manager, Santo Ducci, an odd giant man who reminds her of \\"Mr. Clean\\". According to Teddy and Marguerite, Conrad has mafia connections, and they warn Val to stay away from Stonelair. When Val finally meets Wyn face to face, she is surprised to find that she actually likes him and is able to see beneath the disfigurement he suffered in a polo accident. <br />As pets of Val's friends turn up dead, Val becomes convinced that she is the actual target, but from who? And when Wyn's horses are deliberately poisoned, Val can't imagine who would be responsible. Is someone jealous of her burgeoning relationship with Wyn? <br />Though this novel is a source of some entertainment, the plot seems to fall a little flat. Val is just a too-perfect heroine, very caring, exceedingly forgiving, without a mean bone in her body. The attraction between Wyn and Val seems to be a little undercooked with not enough attention paid towards the development of their relationship. All in all, this is an okay read, with an interesting twist at the conclusion.	2001-08-19
US	44498121	R12UML4YB99KLS	0525946071	57754926	A Moment in Time	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Somewhat Entertaining Romance	In an effort to placate her mother, Valerie Rochelle decides to accept Teddy de Mornay's marriage proposal. Teddy and Valerie have been dating since college, and Marguerite, Valerie's mother, always assumed that they would marry and join their French Huguenot blood. Val does seem uneasy about the engagement and Teddy's petulance when she has an emergency call at Stonelair, an enormous estate in need of her veterinary services for one of their horses. <br />Much to her surprise, Wyn Conrad, the owner of Stonelair, wants Val to be the only veterinarian to handle the animals at his estate. Though Val's colleagues are somewhat bent out of shape at the notion, they agree to give her carte blanche at Stonelair, considering the profit it would bring. <br />But Val has never seen Mr. Conrad close-up and has always dealt with his manager, Santo Ducci, an odd giant man who reminds her of \\"Mr. Clean\\". According to Teddy and Marguerite, Conrad has mafia connections, and they warn Val to stay away from Stonelair. When Val finally meets Wyn face to face, she is surprised to find that she actually likes him and is able to see beneath the disfigurement he suffered in a polo accident. <br />As pets of Val's friends turn up dead, Val becomes convinced that she is the actual target, but from who? And when Wyn's horses are deliberately poisoned, Val can't imagine who would be responsible. Is someone jealous of her burgeoning relationship with Wyn? <br />Though this novel is a source of some entertainment, the plot seems to fall a little flat. Val is just a too-perfect heroine, very caring, exceedingly forgiving, without a mean bone in her body. The attraction between Wyn and Val seems to be a little undercooked with not enough attention paid towards the development of their relationship. All in all, this is an okay read, with an interesting twist at the conclusion.	2001-08-19
US	44498121	R9PUEMGMJ1MRM	0804119511	168651540	What to Do About Annie?	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Deliciously Humorous Romance	Annie Goldman is not in the best of moods. First of all, she is a maid-of-honor in her friend Mary's wedding, and she's \\"dressed like an rose-tinted marshmallow\\". Secondly, the priest officiating is none other than Joe Russo, Mary's brother, \\"Father What a Hunk\\". Joe was the love of Annie's life when he broke up with her fifteen years ago to enter the priesthood. <br />Joe has never totally gotten over Annie. When Annie miscarried fifteen years ago after Joe had promised to marry her, he felt that he was being punished by God and left her to become a priest. Now he has decided to leave the priesthood-his heart is not fully committed to it. <br />But Joe isn't ready to give Annie up now, even though she wants nothing to do with him. When he gets a job working as a youth counselor in the building next to Goldman's Department Store, where Annie works, the two can't help but run into one another. Sparks fly, and ex-priest Joe and unconventional Annie become an item. Obstacles get in the way as Sophia, Joe's mother, dislikes Annie and wants her son to marry a more conventional Italian girl. And Annie is only half-Italian, with ever-changing hair colors and flashy clothes. Will their love endure these tests, and can Annie ever learn to trust Joe again? <br />For a delightful read, with a healthy dose of humor interspersed with enigmatic characters, this is a sure winner. The conflicts between Annie's family and Joe's family are hysterical as each parent is only trying to do the best for their child in their own quirky way. The supporting characters are as developed as the main characters thereby making this novel more than superficial and definitely an entertaining read. Readers may recognize Mary from Ms. Criswell's previous work, THE TROUBLE WITH MARY and can look forward to lawyer Angela's story in THE TRIALS OF ANGELA.	2001-08-17
US	44498121	R2BWXOB8BQFKT8	0446609943	213222268	The Switch	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Deliciously Suspenseful Read	Identical twins Melina and Gillian Lloyd agree to switch places for the evening. Gillian pretends to be Melina when she escorts astronaut Christopher \\"Chief\\" Hart to a dinner banquet. The two don't part after dinner, but instead spend most of the night together. But nothing could have prepared Chief for the following morning when he discovers that Gillian was viciously murdered, and he may have been indirectly responsible. <br />Though the Dallas Police Department finds Gillian's murder an open and shut case, Melina is not convinced. Neither is Hart, as together, they embark on a quest to discover the real reason that Gillian was murdered. In doing so, they place themselves and whoever they touch in grave danger. <br />Believable characters, an intricate story line, and climactic suspense make this a read to be savored. In a unique twist to this novel, the inclusion of twins as an essential element manages to keep the reader guessing and leaves the hero in a tortuous dilemma as he reconciles his feelings for both twins. Suspense at its very best, THE SWITCH constantly reveals seemingly unimportant clues that make the ending crystal clear.	2001-08-16
US	44498121	R2FR0CTP62GZ3P	1551668432	434390435	The Texas Ranger	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Interesting Romantic Suspense	In a twist of fate, Texas Ranger Marc Brannon meets up with Josette Langley, the woman he has spent the past two years trying to forget. As an investigator in the Texas Attorney Generals Office in Austin, Josette is assigned to work on a possible mob hit case involving multiple jurisdictions. Much to her dismay, she has to go to San Antonio, and her partner in the investigation is Brannon. <br />Marc is unable to forget that the last time they met, there was a courtroom between them, and Josie was insinuating that Marcs best friend and lieutenant governor, Bib Webb, had a motive for murder. Not to mention the fact that on their last date, Marc walked out on Josie in a huff over issues surrounding their intimacy. <br />As their investigation brings them into greater danger and closer to the murderer, walls of the past come crumbling down. But will this be enough to give them a chance for the future? <br />Though the story line has a nice flow, and the dialogue between the main characters is more than adequate, the plot seems to fall a little flat. The hero is always described in the most complementary of terms, while he constantly berates the heroine for her frumpy clothing. Most disappointing, though,is Brannons constant return to the subject of sex and Josette's fear of intimacy in almost every discussion that he has with her. While not Diana Palmers best, THE TEXAS RANGER will not dishearten Palmers true fans.	2001-08-12
US	44498121	R2EK1TIDVT7K53	0743412788	179923501	To Tame a Wild Heart (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fantasy-filled Scottish historical	In a tale combining myth with nineteenth century Scottish history, Ms. Fobes has created a unique read. <br />The Duke of Argyll lost his wife and daughter, Sarah, to a tragic carriage accident in 1796. In 1813, Edinburgh, Scotland, Colin Murray, Earl of Cawdor and heir to the Duke of Argyll, discovered an emerald just like the one worn by the deceased Duchess of Argyll. Mr. Murphy, a Highland farmer, pawned the ring after he took it from Sarah, the orphaned girl he found wandering the moors seventeen years before. <br />When the Duke locates Sarah, he deems her his daughter and asks that she return with him to Inveraray, his ducal estate. Reluctantly, Sarah agrees to return, though she has no memory of the Duke as her father. And Sarah doesn't want to leave behind the animals that she has learned to communicate with using her pan flute. <br />At the Duke's request, Colin returns to Inveraray, to aid in the transformation of Sarah. With the help of Phineas Graham, the Duke's man of business, Sarah becomes a real lady. The attraction between Colin and Sarah is very real, but the Duke has forbidden a match between them. Poor Sarah begins to lose a part of herself, stops communicating with the animals, and almost forgets her quest to find the white unicorn. <br />Ms. Fobes has successfully achieved the task of integrating elements of fantasy into a historical novel. Without being overly fanciful, Sarah's quest of the white unicorn is used in almost an allegorical manner allowing it to mesh perfectly with the main story line. The reformation of the rake, Colin, is more believable than some as it takes place in a gradual and somewhat self-awakening manner. For a story to warm your heart and stay with you for a long time, TO TAME A WILD HEART can't be beat.	2001-08-10
US	44498121	R30ZYST35214JG	0451202546	567240126	The Devil's Heiress (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Wonderfully clever historical	In 1816 England, Clarissa Greystone is known as the Devil's Heiress, as her former betrothed, Lord Deveril, left her the bulk of his estate when he died. Though Clarissa despised Lord Deveril, her inheritance has given her some independence, which enables her to go to Brighton upon her departure from Miss Mallory's School in Cheltenham. <br />It is not pure chance, which causes Clarissa to go to Brighton but a memorable encounter with a Major George \\"Hawk\\" Hawkinville at a parade in Cheltenham. At Hawk's suggestion, Clarissa was prompted to choose Brighton as a temporary place of residence with hopes of encountering the dashing officer again. <br />And encounter Hawk, Clarissa does, as she enjoys flirting with him and even visiting his family home. Though Clarissa believes Hawk to be a fortune hunter, she is certain he cares for her, but is a little disconcerted when he probes her about the mysterious death of Lord Deveril. Even though Clarissa is falling in love with Hawk, can she trust Hawk with the events surrounding Deveril's death? And will Hawk reveal to Clarissa the true nature of his interest in her even as his passion for her gets in the way of his original purpose? <br />THE DEVIL'S HEIRESS, the third installment in Ms. Beverley's series of the George's is an even juicier read than the previous work, THE DRAGON'S BRIDE. The development of Clarissa's character is a joy to behold, as she emerges from a dreary schoolgirl to a clever and engaging woman. The repartee between Hawk and Clarissa is incredibly clever with enough undertones to keep the reader's constant attention. And the inclusion of the rogues, former heroes in Ms. Beverley's prior works, adds much to the intricacies of this plot. A truly delightful read, THE DEVIL'S HEIRESS will make the reader's keeper list.	2001-08-07
US	44498121	R2NSS6SD44Y53U	0385335296	474831124	No Man's Mistress	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Wonderful Regency	In this regency era romance, Viola Thornhill is thoroughly ensconced in her life as lady of the manor at Pinewood, the home given her by the late Earl of Bamber. At the annual May Day celebration, Viola becomes enchanted by the handsome stranger she dances with at the maypole. <br />Little does Viola know that the stranger is none other than Lord Ferdinand Dudley who shows up on her doorstep the following morning. Thinking that he is paying a social call, Viola is pleasantly surprised. Surprise quickly turns to anger as she discovers that Lord Dudley has come to inform her that he won Pinewood in a game of chance from the present Earl of Bamber. Viola is incensed and insists that the deceased earl changed his will to deed her Pinewood for the rest of her life. <br />Neither Viola nor Ferdinand wants to yield, so they agree to both reside at Pinewood Manor until a copy of the will can be found and its contents disclosed. Though Viola enlists the aid of the villagers to try to scare Lord Dudley back to London, he does his best to win them over. Even though they are attracted to one another, both Viola and Ferdie try to keep their distance mainly because they both want the estate that neither is willing to give up. Will love prevail when seemingly unsurmountable obstacles get in the way? <br />Though this novel begins as a classic Balogh regency, there are quite a few twists and turns along the way. Neither hero nor heroine are what they first appear adding a fresh new spin to the regency. The love scenes are incredibly tender and unique to this hero and heroine. Readers will recognize the Duke and Duchess of Tresham from Ms. Balogh's previous work, MORE THAN A MISTRESS. NO MAN'S MISTRESS is clearly Mary Balogh at her best.	2001-08-06
US	44498121	R13ZUF1ZRYGBSN	0399147381	304671626	Hemlock Bay (FBI Thrillers, No. 6)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Terrific Suspense	FBI agent Dillon Savich and his wife, fellow agent Lacey Sherlock, are closing in on serial killers, Tommy and Timmy or \\"Tammy\\" Tuttle.  While Tommy is killed and \\"Tammy\\" is apprehended, Tammy's almost supernatural abilities to elude police come to light when she escapes custody.  <br />    Meanwhile, Savich's sister Lily is hospitalized in California presumably after a failed suicide attempt.  When Savich and Sherlock arrive in California, their suspicions turn to Lily's husband and in-laws, the Frasiers.  The Frasiers have much to gain if Lily is out of the picture leaving behind her grandmother's valuable paintings.  But Savich's college friend and art dealer, Simon Russo, discovers that the paintings on loan to the local California museum aren't exactly what they seem, and suddenly both Lily's and Simon's lives are in grave danger.  <br />    HEMLOCK BAY is a true winner, full of nail-biting suspense and captivating intrigue.  In Lily, Catherine Coulter has given the reader one tough cookie of a heroine, who has enough backbone to withstand even the most deadly situations thrown her way.  And, as in Ms. Coulter's previous works, Savich and Sherlock are perfect as secondary characters, FBI agents with both guts and class.  A MUST READ!	2001-08-06
US	44498121	R1BRODTLVK9LHX	0446610259	272586946	Devil in a Kilt	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Enchanting Scottish Historical	In her debut novel, Ms. Welfonder has painted a vivid picture of life in an early fourteenth century Scottish castle. <br />Having despaired of ever being as beautiful as her six older sisters, Linnet MacDonnell has resigned herself to an arranged marriage to Duncan MacKenzie, laird of the MacKenzies, also known as the Black Stag for his fierceness in battle. But Linnet knows that Duncan only desires her as his wife for her sight which will enable her to tell Duncan whether Robbie is his son or that of his evil half-brother, Kenneth. <br />Linnets life at Eilean Creag, Duncans castle, is much improved from her existence under the roof of her drunken father. Duncan is kind to her, though he has made it clear from the start that he was interested in a marriage in name only and wished only for Linnet to care for Robbie and discover the identity of the boys father. Duncans inability to love again after the treachery of his first wife is an obstacle that only Linnets love can heal if he will but open his heart. <br />Written with much emotion and details into the life in a fourteenth century Scottish castle, DEVIL IN A KILT is a thoroughly enjoyable historical. While the supporting characters add surprising depth to this novel, the love of the heroine proves that love can heal even the most hardened of hearts.	2001-08-03
US	44498121	R35E9WIVWGGBA7	0821768417	795288565	Hot Blooded (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Terrific romantic suspense	Dr. Samantha Leeds is the host of Midnight Confessions, a popular New Orleans radio talk show. She begins getting calls at home and at work from a man named \\"John\\" who tells her that he knows her and asks her to repent for her past sins. While the ratings at WSLJ climb, Samantha begins to get very scared as one of her callers is \\"Annie\\", a woman claiming to be a teenager who committed suicide after calling in to Sam's radio show in Houston nine years ago. <br />Coincidentally, perhaps, Ty Wheeler moves into Samantha's neighborhood. Though he is incredibly attractive and very attentive when \\"John\\" increases his focus on Samantha, Ty isn't very forthcoming about himself. Could he somehow be involved with the threatening calls? <br />Are the brutal murders being committed in New Orleans linked somehow to Samantha? And whom can she trust when someone close to her just may prove to be \\"John\\"? <br />Lisa Jackson has written an intense thriller, one that will knock your socks off and keep you up until the wee hours of the morning. With well-developed characters, steamy romance, and captivating intrigue, HOT BLOODED is a must read.	2001-08-01
US	44498121	R175KOLGR6E2LH	0821768417	795288565	Hot Blooded (Zebra Romantic Suspense)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Terrific romantic suspense	Dr. Samantha Leeds is the host of Midnight Confessions, a popular New Orleans radio talk show. She begins getting calls at home and at work from a man named \\"John\\" who tells her that he knows her and asks her to repent for her past sins. While the ratings at WSLJ climb, Samantha begins to get very scared as one of her callers is \\"Annie\\", a woman claiming to be a teenager who committed suicide after calling in to Sam's radio show in Houston nine years ago. <br />Coincidentally, perhaps, Ty Wheeler moves into Samantha's neighborhood. Though he is incredibly attractive and very attentive when \\"John\\" increases his focus on Samantha, Ty isn't very forthcoming about himself. Could he somehow be involved with the threatening calls? <br />Are the brutal murders being committed in New Orleans linked somehow to Samantha? And whom can she trust when someone close to her just may prove to be \\"John\\"? <br />Lisa Jackson has written an intense thriller, one that will knock your socks off and keep you up until the wee hours of the morning. With well-developed characters, steamy romance, and captivating intrigue, HOT BLOODED is a must read.	2001-08-01
US	44498121	RN2U9ZUNNFHZX	0345440390	812378570	Summer Moon	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Tender touching romance	The setting is the coast of Maine. The year is 1869, and Kate Whittington is a twenty-nine year old spinster teaching at the Catholic orphanage where she was left by her mother at the tender age of nine. One of the sisters tells Kate that their orphanage is to close and relocate to Minnesota. Because her mother was a prostitute, Kate has difficulty finding another place to live, not to mention a place to work. <br />She discovers an advertisement in a newspaper where a Texas rancher is looking for a wife. She begins corresponding with the rancher and becomes enthralled with him after reading his letters. Kate and Reed Barton are married by proxy, and she travels to Texas to be with him. <br />Upon her arrival in Texas, Kate discovers that Reed has been wounded when on a mission as a Texas Ranger. She nurses him back to health, only to discover that he neither wrote those letters to her nor wanted her as a wife. <br />Though she is devestated, Kate agrees to stay on as Reed's housekeeper and care for his eight-year old son Daniel. This proves difficult as Daniel has recently been found after having been captured by the Comanches five years ago. <br />Reed is shaken by his attraction to Kate as he has sworn off love thinking it an unnecessary emotion. His marriage to his first wife was difficult at best, and he is consumed with guilt concerning the manner in which she died. <br />SUMMER MOON is an incredibly touching story that gives you an eyewitness view into the heart of the hero and heroine. Kate is such a remarkable woman, gifted with the ability to love though constantly faced with rejection, first from her mother and later from Reed. She is such a likeable heroine that one finds oneself crying with her as she faces heartache. Though damaged by his father's betrayal and the strained relationship with his first wife, Reed is strengthened by Kate's unconditional love enabling him to overcome the demons of his past. This is a truly superb novel, one that leads youon an emotional rollercoaster ride that will not soon be forgotten.	2001-07-30
US	44498121	RKAO9N7EQ9G7R	0380978164	834500400	You Never Can Tell	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Wonderful read	Heather Reardon is a writer on a mission. She is searching for Kole Kills Crow, a Lakota fugitive with a story to tell. Years ago, Kole was an activist for the Native American cause, trying to make things better for his people. But he dropped out of sight after the death of his wife and his escape from prison. <br />After Heather discovers Kole in a northern Minnesota bar, her life is forever changed. For she follows the hero of her dreams to his cabin where she begins to know him as the man shaped by the hardships he has endured. Heather and Kole embark on a cross-country journey to other reservations, gathering supporters for their journey to Hollywood, where they plan to make a stand against the bias of the entertainment industry against Native Americans. <br />Heather struggles to keep her personal attraction for Kole separate from her desire to write his story. And Kole tries to prevent an emotional attraction to Heather, a white woman who has put a dent in his hardened heart. <br />The banter between Heather and Kole is wonderful, ripe with innuendos and very quick-witted. Their relationship goes very deep, first beginning as purely physical, but gradually changing into an enduring ability to trust each other even in adverse circumstances. For a wonderful read proving that love can transcend anything, YOU NEVER CAN TELL can't be beat.	2001-07-29
US	44498121	R13NMDWCOCO9Q8	0380803429	901967861	War Cloud's Passion (Legendary Warriors)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Interesting western romance	In May 1869, Anna Wiley and a colleague are escorting a group of orphaned children west to place them in good homes. On board the train on which they are traveling through Kansas, Anna encounters a young Indian boy running from his captors. Thinking quickly, she hides the boy under her skirts. After a short while, the train is stopped by a band of Cheyenne Dog Soldiers. Everyone on the train is killed except Anna and the children, because the young boy, Lame Bird, pleads with his brother, War Cloud, for their safety, since Anna saved the boy's life.<br />Anna and the children begin their journey across Indian country amidst the company of War Cloud and Lame Bird. The attraction between Anna and War Cloud is undeniable, though she has always thought of herself as plain and unattractive, and he has every reason to distrust whites. Due to an old family curse, War Cloud is reluctant to get involved with Anna because any woman he loved would be in mortal danger. Will their love be strong enough to overcome their differences and override the curse?<br />Karen Kay has written a novel with an in depth look at the life of the Cheyenne in the 1860s. Though the plot seems slow at times, the romance between Anna and War Cloud is memorable and touching, and the element of the paranormal gives an interesting depth to this read.	2001-07-27
US	44498121	R1ZI0WG1F5HKE4	0553801228	774262906	Summer Light	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Extraordinary Novel	May Taylor is a single mother and successful wedding planner, having inherited the business from her mother and grandmother. Kylie, her sensitive six -year-old daughter, has her worried, though, because Kylie seems to see and sense things that other people don't. <br />On a recent plane trip, Kylie sees an angel near a big giant of a man. When a fire on the plane forces the plane to make an emergency landing, Martin Cartier, the giant and star hockey player for the Boston Bruins, helps Kylie and May off the plane. <br />Attracted to May in a way that he can't explain, Martin begins driving down to Connecticut from Boston to see her. May is different from any of the women that Martin has known. She falls in love with him as a person, not merely the handsome rich hockey star. <br />Life is good for the Cartiers when Martin marries May, and Kylie, Martin, and May become a family. But events from Martin's past threaten to tear them apart even as the future shows signs of tribulations to come. Will their love be strong enough to keep them together amidst the trials of life? <br />Luanne Rice has written an extraordinary novel. Brimming with emotion, SUMMER LIGHT is a tender triumph showing how love can survive even under the most difficult of circumstances. And the touch of the paranormal adds an ethereal dimension to this read. SUMMER LIGHT will make you laugh, make you cry, and make you very glad that you read this novel.	2001-07-23
US	44498121	R2EFZXX338X3JN	0380815354	234046856	Once Tempted	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fascinating regency	In a departure from the usual regency heroine, Elizabeth Boyle has given us an extremely intelligent and resourceful heroine who is involved in a plot to retrieve ancient treasure. <br />Olivia Sutton has been in hiding for seven long years, disguised as a widow and companion to Lady Finch. Prior to her exile in the country, Olivia secretly met her beloved, the Marquis of Bradstone,in the library while attending a ball at the home of Lord Chambley. She was on the verge of revealing coded information to the Marquis, thereby disclosing the location of the King's Ransom, a long-ago buried treasure. But the injured man on the floor of the library was not Napolean's agent, as Bradstone professed. And when Bradstone attempted to take Olivia's life, he was thwarted by the injured Spaniard who lost his life in the process. The dying man handed his ring to Olivia along with the message to give it to Hobbe. Unfortunately for Olivia, Bradstone placed the pistol in her hand and fled. <br />Over the years, Olivia has come to believe that Hobbe is her knight in shining armor and secretly hopes to someday meet him. But when the Marquis of Bradstone miraculously turns up alive and in London, Olivia travels there to meet him and exact her revenge. Olivia soon discovers that Bradstone has changed,and she realizes that he is not the same person. <br />He is actually the cousin of the former Marquis of Bradstone, and he is on a mission. Robert Danvers wishes to find the woman responsible for his brother's death. In finding Olivia, he discovers a woman like no other, and the attraction is mutual. Will theirs be a love that can survive the deceptions and intrigue inherent to war and human greed? <br />Elizabeth Boyle has written a thoroughly enjoyable regency with enough intrigue and suspense to keep the reader hooked. Ms. Boyle gives a thumbnail sketch of the trials and tribulations of those fighting in the Napoleanic Wars. <br />The love scenes are both intense and poignant, a combination that is difficult to achieve. For a regency with depth and substance, ONCE TEMPTED can't be beat.	2001-07-20
US	44498121	RZJSACWHKQSH9	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Wonderful Romance	Daisy Minor, spinster librarian of Hillsboro, Alabama, awakens on her thirty-fourth birthday and decides that she needs to change her image and find a man to marry.  Tired of her frumpy clothes and drab hair, she seeks the help of her friend Todd to aid in her transformation.  With her newly blond hair and classically stylish clothes, Daisy takes on the nightclub scene.      Jack Russo, former NYC cop and Hillsboro Chief of Police, notices Daisy at the Buffalo Club and helps her out of a tight spot.  Jack and Daisy find themselves attracted to one another, but Daisy is at first reluctant to continue a relationship with Jack for fear that he isn't the relationship type.<br />    Jack finds himself in the role of protector for Daisy, as he becomes suspicious when too much attention seems to be paid to his little librarian.  The reasons for his suspicions become clear when he discovers that Daisy saw something that she shouldn't have and was definitely in the wrong place at the wrong time.  <br />    What a wonderful suspenseful novel! The twists and turns will keep the reader hooked, and the romance will keep the pages turning.  Daisy is such a likeable heroine, the perfect combination of innocence and intelligence, and a wonderful match for hardened cop Jack Russo.  Linda Howard has penned a sure-fire winner.	2001-07-17
US	44498121	R3BNGD58TDRQVV	0821768719	637685180	To Tame a Duke	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enjoyable Historical	In 1812 Boston, Lily Hawthorne is a tavern owner's daughter who is recruited by her half-brother Seth to aid the war effort. She is known as the Gilded Lily and has an amazing ability to remember codes and pass them on. Though warned by her brother and Bradley Howell, her fianc, not to complete her next assignment, she goes ahead with it anyway. <br />Unfortunately, Lily and her brother Michael are captured by James Armstrong, Duke of Kinross. He has vowed to capture and kill the Gilded Lily whom he believes responsible for the death of his older brother Hugh, who was hung in America as a British spy. James' plans change when he discovers that the Gilded Lily is a woman, and he decides to keep her prisoner at his estate in England until the end of the war. <br />But Lily is not just any woman. She is incredibly intelligent, very resourceful, and fiercely protective of her brother Michael, who was born with a disability. James falls hard for Lily but refuses to let her know that he loves her, and Lily is heartbroken at his callous treatment of her. Things do not go as planned for James when he is forced to explain Lily's presence in England to his mother and aunts. <br />Ms. Grasso has written an enjoyable historical with plenty of wit and tension between the hero and heroine. The heroine is especially likeable with plenty of backbone and spunk. Though the characters could be more developed, this is a pleasing fast-paced read.	2001-07-15
US	44498121	R1FGHD84KG32QO	0451409892	947961599	Phantom Waltz	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Moving Contemporary Romance	In Crystal Falls, Oregon, handsome rancher Ryan Kendrick walks into the local ranch supply store to check on his order and meets Bethany Coulter, one of the most beautiful women that he has ever seen. He begins flirting with her and almost immediately asks her out. Surprised when Bethany turns and Ryan realizes that she is a paraplegic, he doesn't run the other way but agrees to keep the date with her. Sparks fly on that very first date, and Ryan realizes that she is different from any of the other women that he has dated. <br />While wildly attracted to Ryan, Bethany is reluctant to start a relationship with him, fearing that it could only lead to heartbreak for her. Will Ryan be able to convince Bethany that he is truly in love with her, and together they can overcome any obstacles? Or will Bethany leave Ryan for fear that her disability will forever intrude in their lives? <br />Catherine Anderson has written a truly unique and heartwarming romance. Moving away from the classic perfect hero and heroine, Ms. Anderson gives us a slightly imperfect heroine whose imperfections have interfered with her having successful relationships in the past. The real gift of this novel is that the hero is not only able to overlook the heroine's paralysis in order to embark on their romance, but he seeks to aid the heroine in making her life as normal as possible. Emotionally stirring and well-researched, this is a novel not to be missed.	2001-07-13
US	44498121	R1J1BY6AF6EY3J	0671027573	142020743	Mr. Perfect	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Terrific Suspenseful Read	Jaine Bright and her three friends were enjoying themselves at their favorite restaurant where they met every Friday when they jokingly came up with The List, a list of attributes they wanted in Mr. Perfect. Marci scribbled The List down on a notepad for future reference. Little did they dream that when a co-worker asked Marci for The List, Dawna would publish it in the company newsletter and later on-line. <br />Things begin to get complicated when The List gets national attention, and the news media contact the four friends. Additionally, some men at Hammerstead Technology, where all four friends work, seem bent out of shape about some of the items on The List. <br />Though all the attention is a bother for the friends to deal with, they don't get concerned until all start receiving crank phone calls, and one of the four friends winds up dead. <br />Jaine is forced to turn to her neighbor, Sam, a detective she has sparred with on several occasions. While Jaine previously disliked Sam, she suddenly sees him in a whole new light, and neither can deny the physical attraction between them. <br />Linda Howard has written an intensely satisfying thriller. Sam and Jaine are wonderful, as their verbal exchanges can't be beat, and their love scenes sizzle. This is a definite page-turner, impossible to put down as the reader yearns to discover the identity of the murderer, and whether or not he will kill again. For a wonderful summer read, MR. PERFECT can't be beat.	2001-07-10
US	44498121	R3C4D8VMYAENOT	0804119678	574138889	Just Breathe	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting Romantic Suspense	Chloe Nichols is acting as a travel guide to a group of elderly ladies journeying across Europe when she literally stumbles over a man while exiting a train in Austria. Though quickly whisked away by Matthew Broussard, ex-CIA agent, Chloe soon discovers that the man she landed upon in Austria is dead, and Matthew believes that she may be in danger. So he decides to pretend to be her fiance in order to best protect her. <br />Chloe can't imagine that she would be in peril, as she didn't see anything when the man was shot. But Matthew believes otherwise as troubling events involving Chloe occur with increasing frequency. As danger propels them together, fiction approaches reality, and Chloe and Matthew realize that their attraction isn't only for public consumption. <br />Chloe is a delightful heroine, not your perfect femme fatale, but a very down to earth type of girl finding herself involved in some extraordinary events. And Matthew is a terrific hero, handsome and strong, but also with a sensitive side. <br />The twists and turns of the plot are so well executed that it is difficult to see what is coming next. The reader can never be sure until the last page is finished, who is friend and who is foe. For a wonderful read with non-stop excitement, Ms. Davis has penned a sure winner.	2001-07-08
US	44498121	R2NXCXU42EV0F9	0671035339	783615143	Sentimental Journey	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Wonderful World War II Novel	In the years during World War II, the lives of the five main characters in this novel will become forever intertwined.  RAF pilot Skip Inskip has become hardened by the war and has become the toast of England for having the most enemy kills.  Charley, Charlotte Morrison, is the female pilot who ferries planes to the combatants.  Red Walker has joined the service to learn how to fly and hopefully meet up with Charley again.  J.R. Cassidy is on a mission to rescue Kitty Kincaid from the Nazis in Morocco.<br />    This is clearly Jill Barnett's best novel yet.  The emotions of these characters run deep and are so multifaceted that the characters practically jump off the pages.  Ms. Barnett's descriptive writing lends such a feeling of authenticity that the reader feels as if she is living life in World War II times. The love scenes are wonderful, created with an intensity that only the background of raging war can provide.  This is truly an incredible read.	2001-07-04
US	44498121	R1ECTMNODF692P	0553802097	594204929	A Kiss to Remember	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Entertaining Regency	In Regency England, Laura Fairleigh is a young woman solely responsible for the livelihood of herself and her two young siblings, Lottie and George. Lady Eleanor, Laura's guardian, died some months ago and promised Laura that she could stay on at Arden Manor as long as she married before she turned twenty-one. <br />Having discovered that his mother, Lady Eleanor, had died through a letter from Laura, Sterling Harlow, Duke of Devonbrooke, sends Laura a letter indicating that he wishes her to vacate Arden Manor within the month and take possession of it himself. Cold and unfeeling, Sterling has not seen his mother since he was seven when his father sold him to his uncle in order to pay some gambling debts. Lady Eleanor felt powerless at the time and convinced herself that her only son would be better off as the heir to a dukedom. Though she tried to reconcile with her son years later, he refused to open any of her letters. <br />On a whim, Sterling decides to ride to Arden Manor sooner than expected. When approaching the property, his horse shies, and he is thrown and knocked unconscious. Laura finds him in the woods and brings him back to Arden Manor. But Sterling has amnesia, and Laura has no idea who he is. In order to retain Arden Manor thereby marrying before her upcoming twenty-first birthday, Laura gives Sterling the name of Nicholas and convinces him that he is her fiancee. 'Nicholas' begins to look forward to his wedding day as he can't deny his attraction for Laura. The feeling is mutual, but will 'Nick' retain his amnesia long enough for the wedding to take place? And...what will Laura do when 'Nick' remembers his past? <br />Ms. Medeiros has penned a delightful novel with a generous mix of humor and romance. While the attraction between Sterling and Laura sizzles, the supporting characters contribute much to this novel. Dower, Laura's sourfaced worker, and his wife Cookie, loyal to a fault, add a touch of comic relief. And Lottie, Laura's little sister, is constantly getting into mischief in her attempt to remove 'Nick' from the picture. Ms. Medeiros has cleverly included some of Lady Eleanor's last words as parts of a letter to her son begin every chapter.  A MAGICAL SUMMER READ.	2001-07-04
US	44498121	R31U4YNWJDTTTW	0440236908	767194494	The Beautiful Stranger (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 3)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Fantastic Historical	It is 1837, and Arthur Christian, younger son of a duke, still holds himself responsible for the death of his friend Phillip three years prior. In and effort to cleanse his soul and sooth his sense of responsibility, he travels to Scotland to tie up some loose ends relating to Phillip's legal affairs. <br />While in Scotland, Arthur happens upon Kerry McKinnon, a beautiful young widow who is stranded along the road where Arthur is traveling. Circumstances force the pair to return to Glenbaden, the home Kerry is struggling to keep though faced with insurmountable debt. <br />When tragedy strikes, and Kerry must return to England with Arthur, she comes face to face with the realities separating them. Will their love for one another be strong enough to endure their differences? <br />Part of the allure of this novel is that the hero and heroine are from such totally different backgrounds, but this ceases to matter as their purpose becomes one in working the land of Kerry's home. Julia London cleverly uses this earthy setting where Kerry and Arthur are able to explore their attraction for one another without the artifice of the London drawing room. <br />The protagonists are so complex and multifaceted that the reader can almost feel the emotion seeping from every page. For characters and a story to fall in love with, don't miss this latest by Julia London-she's definitely done it again.	2001-07-03
US	44498121	R1UTQ5XNLG9X61	0671035339	783615143	Sentimental Journey	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific Epic Novel	In 1940, Great Britain has entered World War II, and 'Skip' Inskip is an RAF pilot deemed a hero for the number of enemy planes he has destroyed. His lovely wife Greer is expecting their first child. <br />Captain J.R. Cassidy is on a mission in North Africa in 1941. Kitty Kincaid, daughter of a famed scientist is being held hostage by the Germans. Cassidy rescues her, and the two embark on a dangerous journey across the desert. <br />In 1941 Texas, Red Walker has just finished Army flight school and meets up with Charley Morrison, a beautiful female pilot he met several years ago when her plane almost collided with the gas tanks at his gas station. <br />None other than a force called fate could bring these people together in a war where both men and women did their parts to defeat Hitler's army. <br />Brilliantly executed, SENTIMENTAL JOURNEY chronicles the lives and emotions of the players as they face the true dangers inherent in war and combat. Without being overly explicit, Ms. Barnett shows the horror of World War II, not only for those in combat, but for those waiting for word from loved ones. Intense love scenes are poignantly depicted in this novel as war rages all around. Buy a box of tissues for this wonderful read.	2001-07-03
US	44498121	R2B0BNNLJ2VTJB	0804119317	811693277	Whispers of Heaven	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wonderfully Emotional Read	In the beautiful and harsh wilds of Tasmania in 1840, Jesmond Corbett returns home after two years of schooling in England. Her father is now dead, and her mother seems indifferent to her return. Jessie must now ponder her future and set a date to be wedded to her betrothed, Harrison Tate. Though promised to Harrison since childhood, Jessie feels a reluctance to marry him. He is ever the proper Englishman with his tightly controlled emotions and expectations of obediance from his fiancee. <br />But Jessie doesn't truly want to be the perfect Englishwoman. She wants to be true to herself instead of just trying to live up to her mother's expectations. The instant she sees Lucas Gallagher, an Irish convict working at Castle Corbett, Jessie becomes entranced with him. Good looks aside, Lucas is a wonder with Finnegan's Luck, the horse she brought back from London, and Lucas soon becomes her groom. A unique kind of candor develops between Jessie and Lucas, and she feels most alive when she is with him. <br />Quickly becoming more than friends, Jessie and Lucas soon learn that spending too much time alone can lead them into dangerous waters, the culmination of an attraction that can go nowhere. For Lucas will never be pardoned, and Jessie feels that her heart would break if she if forced to live her life with Harrison. <br />An emotionally rich story, set in the lush and sometimes unforgiving background of Tasmania, WHISPERS OF HEAVEN is an incredible romance. It brings together two people with apparently nothing in common who both learn to overlook their prejudices and see the person underneath. Jessie begins to love Lucas as the person he has become, though scarred and tortured by the horrors of his last four years as a convict. And Lucas looks beyond Jessie's haughty English exterior and sees the woman she is at heart with an unending capacity for love. Ms. Proctor's descriptive writing adds much to this wonderful historical. Candice Proctor is definitely one of the rising stars of the romance genre.	2001-07-03
US	44498121	R273OKWSNCI1YW	0684871432	662252853	The Good Journey	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Well-written Historical Novel	Mary Bullitt met General Atkinson in Louisville, Kentucky in January, 1826. Henry Atkinson was an acquaintance of Mary's Uncle William back in St. Louis. When William Clark described his niece to Henry, he wished to meet her. Mary, considered a spinster at the ripe old age of twenty-two, considered the General rather old for her tastes at first, since he was in his forties, but she gradually warmed to the idea of marrying him, and later in the month of January, she married him and traveled west to Jefferson Barracks, Missouri. <br />Though raised in much wealth, Mary seemed to adapt quite adequately to her new home, though at first she unintentionally insulted the General by asking if the home belonged to the servants she brought with her from Kentucky. She also participated in the planting, an activity that she had never performed before in her life. At the center of the Atkinsons' lives were the ongoing campaigns to find the Indian Black Hawk with whom the General held a twenty-some-year feud. The General did his best to settle matters peacefully between the Indians and whites but was met with much resistance from the militia as well as the powers that be in Washington. <br />While Mary finally declared her love for the General, he had a wall around his heart which she rarely seemed to penetrate. Further complicating their relationship was the appearance of a beautiful young Indian translator by the name of Bright Sun. The General's relationship to Bright Sun was a constant thorn in Mary's side. <br />Steeped in actual historical events inspired by real people, this novel makes the west in the early 1800's come alive. Sparing no punches, Ms. Gilchrist tells it as it really was, rampant dysentary among Army troops as well as tragic deaths from cholera. This is a refreshing return to realism sometimes spared in many historical novels failing to give the reader a true picture of the times. <br />Though the relationship between Mary and Henry wouldn't be deemed a traditional romance, their marriage, though expounded upon with fiction, seems very true to the reader as they endure the trials and tragedies of everyday life. This is a richly descriptive read with an enduring story that shouldn't be missed.	2001-06-24
US	44498121	R2CLL4P62H3D63	0451202899	640120060	All a Woman Wants (Signet Historical Romance)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Enchanting Historical Romance	Lachlan MacTavish is an American in London on business and decides to visit his younger sister. Unfortunately, he reaches his sister's home to find that she has died, and her children are being severely neglected. Mac's brother-in-law is none other than a drunken Viscount Simmons, and Mac decides that his niece and nephew would be safest while in the care of their uncle. <br />Mac kidnaps the children and flees to the country only to discover that the woman recommended for the position of nanny is no longer alive. His quest for a nanny leads him to the home of Beatrice Cavendish, a long Meg of a spinster trying desperately to run the estate she inherited from her father. Bea agrees to let Mac stay at her home until his ship is ready to sail, though she is under the misapprehension that he is a widower and father to the children. In exchange, Mac agrees to teach Bea about the running of the estate. Lady Taubee, Bea's eccentric aunt, visits Bea's home and manages to get Mac to admit his true identity which is soon revealed to Bea. Mutual attraction leads Bea and Mac to marry, though she wants no man to control her future and convinces herself and him that she would be better off remaining to run her estate while he sails his ship and the children back to Virginia. <br />Richly entertaining and frequently laced with humor, this novel sets a pace that will hold the reader's interest. Bea and Mac are the perfect example of the phrase 'opposites attract'. She epitomizes the straight-laced English spinster, while he is the gruff American. Though the children are instrumental in bringing this unlikely pair together, their admiration for one another, both physical and intellectual, gives their relationship sticking power. <br />The supporting players make this book worthwhile, too. They create a sub-plot of their own, especially James, the over-dressed distant cousin of a footman. One can't help but wonder how his relationship to Bea really fits into the storyline. This is definitely a novel worth exploring.	2001-06-16
US	44498121	R2VNALE721SUET	1551668157	775861136	About That Man	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Entertaining Read	In the small town of Trinity Harbor, Virginia, Daisy Spencer has decided to take in Tommy Flanagan, an orphaned ten-year-old. Though Tucker, Daisy's brother and the town sheriff, sees Tommy trying to steal some of Daisy's jewelry, she wants Tommy anyway. Because Tommy's mother has just died, and he has nowhere to go, Daisy wants him to live with her as long as possible. <br />Enter Walker Ames, the D.C. cop who is the uncle that didn't even know that he had a nephew. Having lost contact with his sister, Tommy's mother, years before, Walker is surprised when the social worker calls him about Tommy. More than that, Walker has no idea whether he would make a good father to Tommy considering that his own marriage ended in divorce, and his wife moved away with his sons. <br />Though Daisy is attracted to Walker, she is terrified that he will take Tommy away from her and end her hopes of ever having a child of her own. Walker is equally attracted to Daisy but is reluctant to act on that attraction for fear that a complicated situation will become even more complex. Walker believes that he would never be content in Trinity Harbor, and the ninety-mile drive from there to D.C. would be too much to make on a daily basis. What type of relationship will Walker and Daisy have, and how will Tommy fit into their lives? <br />Sherryl Woods has provided readers with a hearwarmingly tender novel. The manner in which patriarch King Spencer interferes in his daughter's life, much to her dismay, adds a touch of humor to this read full of complex characters. Daisy's brothers are wonderful, very much men's men but clearly over-protective of their sister. Anna-Louise, as the town's minister, adds a reality-check when events in Daisy's life get really out of kilter. One can hardly wait to see who will snare the heart of Daisy's brother Bobby in the next installment in this series.	2001-06-13
US	44498121	R162UFCWDXGG3O	0380818493	99731643	The Renegades: Rafe	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Exciting Western Romance	Rafe Aigner is a professional gambler living in Texas in 1874 when he wins a newspaper in a poker game. The newspaper is the San Antonio Star, and it belonged to the newly widowed Madeleine Calhoun. <br />Rafe remembers Madeleine from New Orleans twelve years before when he asked her to run away with him and marry him, but she refused, reluctant to leave her father and his newspaper business. Promising that she would wait for him, Maddie let Rafe leave. Upon seeing reports of his death, Maddie was devestated and finally married Sutton Calhoun after she was left alone and penniless when her father died. <br />While Madeleine is happy to see Rafe, he is angry with her for not waiting for him all those years ago, especially when he finally made his way back to New Orleans only to find her married to another man. Unfortunately for Rafe, he is forced to lean on Maddie as he needs someone to look after his son Juanito, a boy that Maddie seems to bond to almost instantly. <br />Madeleine is such a likeable heroine, having lived the life of a southern belle only to lose so much in the Civil War and later, after her husband gambled away most of her inheritance. She survived to become stronger, strong enough to take a chance on Rafe when he walks back into her life again, though she knows that she could have her heart broken if he chooses to leave and take Juanito with him. <br />The unsettled nature of the relationship between Rafe and Maddie keeps the reader hooked. Rafe is so unwilling to let himself be loved, having hardened his heart long ago because of Madeleine's apparent betrayal. Unlike so many romance novels, where attraction is paramount, Rafe and Maddie establish a new friendship through their love for his son which leads them to fall in love all over again. Readers will want to explore the two previous installments in this series: THE RENEGADES: COLE and THE RENEGADES: NICK.	2001-06-11
US	44498121	R2DBI122VOOMC	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Terrific Romance	Nell Channing has arrived at the Three Sisters Island with an old car and very little money. She is fortunate enough to find a job at the local bookstore cafe. Mia, the owner of the cafe also finds Nell a quiet little cottage to rent. <br />Nell begins to feel a sense of peace on this Island. After nearly a year of running, she is beginning to believe that her abusive husband, Evan Remington, will not find her. After all, she assumed a new identity after she faked her own death. <br />While Nell is a swift success at baking for the cafe, she meets Zack Todd, the handsome town sheriff. Though Nell has officially sworn off men, Zack is just too charming to resist. Nell finally divulges some of her secrets to Zack, who assures her that he would never abuse her like the man of her past. Their relationship does become strained when Zack wants to take it a step further, and Nell is sure she can't because she is too afraid of Evan to ever let him know that she is alive and wishes to terminate their marriage. <br />What a fantastic read! The mystical element of witchcraft and its role in the creation of Three Sisters adds a supernatural element to this novel. Nell's coming of age in her education of witchcraft is cleverly combined with her regaining her confidence after years of abuse. <br />The love story is poignant and the characters so real that you won't want to put this one down. And the suspense will keep you up late into the night. HEAVEN AND EARTH, the next installment in this series, can't come soon enough.	2001-06-10
US	44498121	R349R5C4X51G5A	0380819066	595146467	The Bad Man's Bride: Marrying Miss Bright	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Entertaining Western Romance	In post Civil War Kansas, Anthea Bright has taken the position of school teacher in order to support her sisters living back east in Philadelphia. Anthea never bargained to meet Gabriel Jackson,'father' of Lily, one of Anthea's students. Though he frustrates her, Anthea finds herself drawn to Gabriel, an attraction which she can ill-afford. For Gabriel is shunned by the more respectable members of the town of Haven given the fact that his mother was never married. <br />Gabriel's gruff kindness astounds Anthea as she comes to know him better and begins to care for Lily. Unforseen circumstances force the pair to marry to save Anthea's reputation. Will their marriage last, or will they go their separate ways, never to see one another again? <br />Readers looking for a witty and delightful read will be sure to enjoy this book. While the emotions between the hero and heroine are intense enough to satisfy many a reader, the elements of humor cleverly interspersed in this novel lend a feeling of reality to the protagonists. A truly entertaining read!	2001-06-08
US	44498121	R3QJMFU7K3YW8W	038080588X	292444051	The Truest Heart	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Enjoyable Medieval Romance	Lady Gillian of Westerbrook has taken refuge along the coast of Cornwall in this novel set in early thirteenth century England. Her father conspired to murder King John and was afraid that the King would choose to harm his children. Before he took his own life, Gillian's father, Ellis of Westerbrook, ordered his children, Gillian and Clifton, into separate places of hiding. <br />While walking along the beach one day with her trusted friend Brother Baldric, Gillian discovers the bodies of men washed along the shore after a shipwreck. One man is miraculously alive, and she takes him back to her cottage to nurse him back to health. <br />Though he is finally able to recall his name, Gareth is unable to remember anything of his past life when at first rescued by Gillian. She cares for him with utmost tenderness and kindness, as bits and pieces of his memory return. Sensing that Gillian is in danger from King John, Gareth, Lord Sommerfield, takes her back to Sommerfield to protect her. Can Gillian really trust this man to save her from the wrath of the King, and will she lose her heart in the process? <br />Samantha James has written a poignant love story that leaves the reader questing for more. The tension between hero and heroine is apparent as it is clear that neither truly trusts the other. Murder and mystery add substance to this plot as Gareth and Gillian discover the meaning of unconditional love.	2001-06-05
US	44498121	R2V8XOCTR0XWC6	0380802325	85428738	Suddenly You	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Entertaining Historical	In 1836, Amanda Briars is making her way alone in the world as an almost thirty-year-old spinster author. As her thirtieth birthday present to herself, she wishes to hire a male companion for the evening. Jack is everything she desires in a man, even though she knows that she will probably never see him again. <br />But see him again she does, and he is someone entirely different than who she thought he was. Though he is thorougly charming and irresistably handsome, Amanda does her best to keep her distance from him. Jack, illegitimate son of a nobleman and maid, is attracted to her as well and surprisingly shares parts of his well-guarded past with Amanda. Will their mutual attraction lead to anything more than a simple affair, especially for Jack who has told Amanda of his distaste for marriage? <br />Amanda is a truly delightful heroine. Though she sees herself as a plump bookish spinster, Jack is able to convince her that he is attracted to her beauty as well as her brains. In an era where helpless females were revered by men for their complacency, Amanda's spirit shines through. <br />The love story exhibits a quality of its own as physical attraction and intellectual attraction are so carefully intertwined that one cannot always see where one begins and the other ends. Lisa Kleypas again provides readers with a page-turning novel.	2001-06-05
US	44498121	R1TMCMKK1C71XF	0449002071	630906949	Nightingale's Gate	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Thrilling Historical	Alice Kendall is a woman lawyer at a time when woman lawyers were few and far between.  Though she has had few clients in her first year of practice, she not only aced the bar exam but graduated at the top of her class.  Fellow attorney Grayson Hawthorne decides that Alice would be the perfect person to defend his brother Lucas who has been accused of murdering a prostitute.  <br />    At first Alice declines to represent Lucas, partially because she feels that the case would be difficult to win especially against her father, a veteran prosecutor.  Furthermore, Alice is disturbed by her attraction to Lucas, a known black sheep of his respectable family who has earned his reputation as the owner of a gentlemen's gambling club.<br />    After agreeing to represent Lucas, Alice is a little more than disturbed by his reluctance to disclose to her just why he couldn't have been involved in the murder.  As the attraction between Alice and Lucas grows, she begins to believe in his innocence as more clues surface proving the possibility that someone else is likely the killer. While the trial progresses, emotions hit an all-time high as Alice faces off in court with Clark, the prosecutor and her would-be suitor, as well as her father who has taught her much of what she knows. <br />    What a page-turner!!!  Linda Frances Lee had me glued to the pages as soon as I began reading.  The dark intensity of the hero coupled with the strength and innocence of the heroine are an irresistable combination. Because  the innocence of the hero is never entirely clear from the onset of the novel, the introduction of probable suspects and the manner in which they are connected to one another keeps the reader gripping the edge of the chair until the real killer is finally revealed.  This is a wonderful conclusion to the trilogy of DOVE'S WAY and SWAN'S GRACE.	2001-05-29
US	44498121	R1NOQZV2NAMB9G	055357762X	903656164	The Prisoner	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Truly Original Historical	Genevieve MacPhail, spinster daughter of an aristocrat, has opened her home to orphaned and imprisoned children in this novel set in 1861 Scotland.  In the process of rescuing fifteen-year-old Jack from his prison cell, she meets his cellmate, Haydon Kent, Marquess of Redmond. Though injured, Haydon defends Jack against a brutal beating by a prison guard.  Genevieve is amazed that Haydon would put himself in harm's way for Jack, given that Haydon is on the verge of being hanged for murder.<br />    Upon his release, Jack manages to take the guard's keys and unlock Haydon from his cell.  Beaten and feverish, Haydon turns up at Genevieve's home, and her six children beg her to save him.  Though she know that she could be implicated if he is found in her home, she nurses him back to health.<br />    Haydon knows that he must leave eventually to clear his name, but he wishes to wait until he can help Genevieve rectify some difficult financial problems.  Things go a little awry when he is forced to explain his presence to Genevieve's former fiancee, and he introduces himself as Genevieve's husband, Mr. Blake.  Will Haydon be able to clear his name without abandoning the children he has come to care for, and will Genevieve still see him as her knight in shining armour when he discovers the life he previously led?<br />    Karyn Monk has written a wonderfully crafted tale, complete with a truly selfless heroine and hero healed by the power of love.  How refreshing to read of a noblewoman who has forsaken her wealth and social status to see to the needs to destitute children.  And how eartwarming to find a hero, though scarred, who is capable of recognizing that the depth of the heroine's love for him can heal his wounds.<br />    The depth of the characters is more than skin-deep. Monk alludes to the difficulties faced by Genevieve as evidenced in her paintings. As secondary characters, the children and household staff are an exemplary creation of supporting players.  Thespecial bond between crippled Charlotte and Jack becomes apparent as this novel nears to a close. This book is a definite keeper, and one can hardly wait for Jack's story to follow.	2001-05-29
US	44498121	R3VF4K1XLXRZZZ	084394868X	931340163	Gambler's Gold	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Enjoyable Western Romance	Lydia Seaton is the main force behind managing her family's southern hotel in this post Civil War novel. Enter Nick Brown, the Pinkerton Agent who is attempting to discover the culprits behind the latest vandalism to railroad property. The attraction between Lydia and Nick is almost immediate but is marred by the fact that Lydia is technically married though her husband disappeared four years before. Matters become complicated as Nick isn't really just a Pinkerton Agent, and Lydia has more than a few secrets of her own. <br />Light has penned an enjoyable novel complete with a heroine who is more than a simpering southern belle. Lydia has spark and intelligence as well as a wonderful sense of family loyalty. Her younger siblings are well-established supporting characters who add much to this novel with their quirky behavior. Nick is almost too good to be true, a hero who stays on to woo Lydia, though she has rejected him repeatedly. The attraction between the hero and heroine was a little too instantaneous, but overall this is an enjoyable read.	2001-05-26
US	44498121	RZM9QZM24VW9N	0380789892	948054774	Midnight in Ruby Bayou (St. Kilda Consulting)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable Romantic Suspense	Faith Donovan is a talented jewelry designer who is in the process of creating a ruby necklace for her college roomate, Mel. Davis Montegeau, Mel's future father-in-law has sent the rubies to Faith to fashion a necklace as a wedding gift for Mel. <br />After Faith's shop is burglarized, her older brother Archer, head of the Donovan empire, assigns Owen Walker to be her bodyguard as she travels from Seattle to Savannah for a jewelry show. Trouble seems to follow Faith and Walker everywhere as burglaries and muggings become an everyday occurrence. When Faith and Walker make the journey to the Montegeau's family home for Mel's wedding, truth becomes stranger than fiction as strange secrets of this old southern family come to light. <br />Elizabeth Lowell has written a atisfying romantic suspense novel, complete with a fascinating description of the qualities present in exquisite rubies. Though Faith is a little weak as a heroine, Walker more than makes up for her inadequacies, as he is the perfect combination of strength and sensitivity without having an enormous male ego. <br />Lowell cleverly combines the attraction between Faith and Walker with an emerging trust that finally allows them to overcome their fear of loving someone again. For a mystery with some romantic spice added, this is an enjoyable read.	2001-05-25
US	44498121	R204LDCA69ZG3P	0743417909	90636614	Abandon (Sonnet Books)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Exciting Mystical Romance	Anthony Hartstone, Earl or Pentargon, has inherited the island of Abandon from his brother Ethan. He decides to sell Abandon to the Marquess of Camelbourne in exchange for Camelbourne's support for legislation to change child labor laws. Morwenna Halliwell, thought by some to be an enchantress, pleads with Anthony not to sell Abandon, believing that the new owner would destroy the livelihood of the islanders. <br />Anthony becomes enamored with Morwanna and the two are forced to marry. Morwenna continues her search for King Arthur's cave in her effort to finish her late father's book, as mysteries and legends abound. <br />Mysticism, romance, and mystery are all packed into this wonderful novel. The relationship between the hero and heroine is exciting, starting as an attraction and evolving into a stronger love when both realize that they are not enemies after all. The supporting players are wonderful and add much to the fantasy and suspense elements of the book. A MUST READ	2001-05-19
US	44498121	R25JL7KZTE1I5C	084394854X	791970450	Wicked Angel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Refreshing Regency	Alex Blackthorne is sent from America to England by his parents to visit his mother's aristocratic family and tame his roguish behavior. There he meets Jocelyn Woodbridge, preacher's daughter, and the two become friends. Though Joss is in love with Alex, he fails to see the woman behind the drab clothing, and he continues on with his wild ways, bewitching English women with his American Indian heritage. <br />Circumstances lead Alex to marry Joss to form a union in name only. Alex finds difficulty in keeping to the original terms of the bargain when he uncovers the beautiful woman that he has married. Their marriage must endure further tests as they return to America, and Joss meets some of Alex's Indian relatives. <br />The depth of these two main characters makes this a very enjoyable read. Neither hero or heroine are perfect-both are very likeable, human characters with believable flaws. Though Joss' initial appearance is rather dowdy, Alex finds that he is attracted to her anyway and later discovers that it wasn't her beauty initially that drew him to her, but her compassionte character, a rare find in a genre where beauty is almost everything. Readers will definitely want to explore LOVE A REBEL...LOVE A ROGUE, the story of Alex's parents.	2001-05-16
US	44498121	R2FSAT84701JA7	0821769936	57448662	The Lady's Proposal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining Historical	Lady Clarissa Pomeroy finds herself in need of a husband if she is to keep her inheritance in 1886 England. Her most likely candidate is Simon Sinclair, Earl of Sheridan, an acquaintance of her late grandfather's whom Clarissa has loved and admired for some time. Fortunately, Simon agrees to Clarissa's proposal, and the pair are wed. <br />Though they are physically attracted to one another, both Simon and Clarissa feel that each is not fully trusting the other. Clarissa is reluctant to involve Simon in her charity work because she is afraid that he will curtail it. Simon can't believe that Clarissa appears to exert such control over him, making him feel things he has never felt before. <br />Patricia Waddell has written a pleasing historical which explores the complexities of love and obediance in a nineteenth century marriage. The heroine struggles to be seen as a woman of intelligence and value as more than an ornament on her husband's arm and the bearer of his heirs. The complexities of the main characters carry this novel to a satisfactory conclusion.	2001-05-12
US	44498121	R2Z6WTEOFB833T	0451203585	754656703	The Dragon's Bride (Historical Romance, Signet)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Wonderful Historical	In 1816, along the coast in the southern part of England, Con Somerford and Susan Kerslake come face to face again after youthful betrayal tore them apart.  Eleven years ago, at the tender age of fifteen, they shared a magical time together which ended abruptly when, after Susan seduced Con, she callously rejected him when she found out that he was not heir to the Earldom of Wyvern.<br />    Ironically, Con is now the new Earl, and Susan is the housekeeper, a position which she has retained in order to recover some gold due her family from the late Earl.  Susan's brother, David, and their father before him, are the infamous Captain Drake, leader of the local smuggler operation.  Susan believes that the gold belongs to her because the late Earl received a portion of the smuggling profits in exchange for protecting the smuggling operation.  Not only did he fail to protect the smuggling business, he aided in the capture and transportation of the previous Captain Drake.  <br />    Despite Susan's prior ill-treatment of Con, he finds himself still drawn to her and wonders if she still harbors a desire to  become the Countess of Wyvern.  Susan, likewise, is attracted to Con,though he is no longer the boy she spent hours with in youthful exploration.  He is now a hardened man, embittered by war and her previous rejection.  Can Susan and Con overcome events of the past and find love again?<br />Jo Beverley has definitely done it again.  This is a wonderful read, rich with emotion between hero and heroine.  She makes it clear that Susan betrayal of Con, her youthful lover, is so devestating simply because she is the one he has loved all these years.  And Susan,likewise, was never able to get over him even though she tried with two other men.<br />    The imagery of the dragon and his bride as represented by the statue is skillfully woven into the relationship of the protaganists as Con discovers that he is not really the dragon he has tatooed on himself, but St. George, theslayer of dragons, who he wanted to be so long ago.  The main characters have come full circle, having learned so much about themselves in the eleven years that they spent apart,that they now know that they were truly meant for one another.  We will eagerly await THE DEVIL'S HEIRESS, the next installment in this series.	2001-05-10
US	44498121	R1V1CUJS1SR76S	0515130540	963812469	Meet me at Midnight	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Terrific Historical	The setting is early nineteenth century England, and Raphael Giscard,Viscount de Fontvilliers, has a plan.  He wagers his scandalous friends that he can come between a couple who is obviously in love. He sets his sights on seducing Julia Brodie, a banker's daughter who is about to be betrothed to her beloved Simon.<br />    Raphael does not expect to be moved by Julia.  But she affects in in a way that no woman ever has.  She is compassionate, intelligent, and witty, and she almost makes him regret having become a  hardened rake.  Things go awry when the wager becomes public knowledge, and Raphael must marry Julia after seducing her.<br />    Raphael and Julia come to a truce of sorts in their marriage, but all is destroyed when Julia discovers the wager.  In an ensuing duel with Simon, Raphael is severely injured, and he and Julia become further estranged.  Raphael treats Julia horribly forcing her to part from him for a time.  He must then come to terms with his past and discover the meaning of enduring love in order to win Julia back.<br />    Jacqueline Nevin's writing is reminiscent of Judith McNaught. The emotions between the hero and heroine are so real, so intense, that the reader can't put the book down until the conflict is really and truly resolved on or about the last page.  The characters in this read have great depth and are described skillfully enabling one to see how their interactions affect one another.  Readers will wish to explore this author's previous works, THE FLOWER AND THE SWORD and THE MAIDEN AND THE WARRIOR.	2001-05-09
US	44498121	R3VVBH6MAOZH3L	0804119643	923395927	The Impossible Texan	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable Historical	In Texas in 1888, Tyler Hamilton has just been hired as campaign manager to Senator Maxwell, who is running for reelection.  Marlena Maxwell is none too happy about this turn of events, partially because she is such a vital force behind her father's campaign, and secondly, because Tyler is a Harvard-educated Bostonian.<br />    Despite their differences, Tyler and Marlena cannot deny their attraction for one another.  Though he is a Yankee, Tyler respects Marlena's ability to aid her father's political career.  Their mutual attraction does become complicated by the fact that Marlena's mother demands that her father fire Tyler as campaign manager because his accent causes her to remember the Yankee that slashed and scarred her face during the Civil War.<br />    Marlena becomes very confused about her feelings for Tyler, for there is no denying the spark between them, but she wonders how she can fall for a man who could be responsible for the breakup of her family, as her mother is not on good terms with her father.  Tyler and Marlena decide that their love for one another must surpass all other concerns as they continue to meet in secret.<br />    When scandal erupts in a local newspaper, Tyler and Marlena must stand together to help Senator Maxwell weather the attacks  on his credibility.  Their bond becomes stronger as they publicly confess their love, and together aid Mrs. Maxwell's recovery from a debilitating illness.<br />    Ms. Shaw has written a fine debut historical while employing a clever combination of wit and romance.  The hero and heroine are very likeable characters. Tyler is depicted as strong male who is very  respectful of Marlena's intellectual abilites, and Marlena is much more than the typical simpering southern belle.  With this page turner as a first book, readers can look forward to future enjoyable historicals from Allie Shaw.	2001-05-03
US	44498121	RO2OKV38UM5RN	0380812967	239720478	The Indiscretion	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Terrific read	Lydia Bedford-Browne is a rather uncoventional daughter of a Viscount.  After attending her maid's wedding, unbeknownst to her parents, she sets out on a journey  across the Dartmoor, a desolate uninhabited stretch of land, to visit her cousin.  <br />    The only other passenger on the coach is a drunken, disheveled cowboy who spends much of the journey sleeping under his hat.  That is, until he discovers that the driver is nowhere to be found, and he must try to get the coach under control.  The coach becomes mired in a bog, and Sam Cody, the drunken cowboy, frees the horses and saves Lydia.  Stranded on the moor, Sam and Lydia are forced to spend several days with only each other for company.<br />    At first they are uneasy around each other as Sam is sure that Lydia isn't the lady's maid she claims to be , and Lydia senses that Sam isn't just the sloppy cowboy who just jilted his bride. Gradually, these two protagonists develop a truce as they progress from sleeping close together to keep warm to making love when Lydia seduces Sam.<br />    Though Lydia finally admits that she is the daughter of a Viscount, Sam is somewhat taken back, when just prior to their rescue, Lydia refuses to allow Sam to see her upon their return to London. Lydia thinks that Sam could never be the person her family would want her to consider for a husband.  Sam surprises Lydia, though, when he shows up at her home, having been invited to a party given by her father, the Viscount Wendt.  While Sam had admitted to Lydia that he was rich, he never admitted that he was being considered for the position of U.S. Ambassador to Britain.<br />    Lydia tries to avoid Sam at all costs even when her father invites him to stay on at his home in an effort to further some treaty negotiations.  Tempers flare between Lydia and Sam as they engage in a quirky archery contest, and Lydia consistently insults Sam thinking that she just wants him to disappear because he coudn't possibly fit into her world.When Lydia discovers that she is pregnant, Sam must do his best to convice her that he wants to marry her not only out of duty, but out of love.<br />    Judith Ivory cleverly delves into the characters of these two main players.  They aren't just merely hero and heroine who fall  in love, but two people who must come to terms, not only with their preconceived notions of one another, but each other's imperfections. Their dialogue is witty without being contrived as they constantly spar with one another.  A hint at the conclusion suggests Sam's half-brother as a hero for a coming book.  For those who love a great romance, Judith Ivory's possible sequal to THE INDISCRETION  cannot come too soon.	2001-04-30
US	44498121	R2UHXXKPOGKK60	0312979444	539399007	Heartless	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Enjoyable historical	Ariel Summers, a peasant girl living in nineteenth century England, decides that she wishes to better her lot in life.  She offers to become the mistress of the Earl of Greville in exchange for his providing her with the schooling to become a proper lady.  Upon completion of her education, she plans to be his mistress.<br />    Unbeknownst to Ariel, the old Earl dies prior to the completion of her schooling and the new Earl, Justin Ross, the newly legitimized son of the late Earl, inherits his father's soon to be mistress.<br />   In the years since his father's death, Justin has relished the letters sent by Ariel, and something in those correspondances touches his hardened heart.  When Justin meets Ariel, he wants her for his own.  But she will not be any man's mistress, having decided that she want to try to repay Justin in some other way.<br />    Justin deliberately hurts Ariel thinking that she has betrayed him with another.  Tensions arise as she must learn to trust him again, and he learns the meaning of real love.<br />    Kat Martin has written a well-pleasing historical that holds the reader's interest with the constant tension between the hero and heroine as they discover that their mutual attraction leads them on a journey filled with misunderstandings that ends when they find enduring love.	2001-04-26
US	44498121	R25NM66EHP75M8	0312978596	172950172	Border Lord	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderful Elizabethan historical	Catherine Armstrong, an English spinster, is shipwrecked on the shores of Scotland when Duncan Maxwell, son of an absent English father and Scots mother, rescues her. Duncan appears to be a harsh man, despising anything English, and is an outlaw who holds Catherine hostage for the ransom her English father can provide. Though Catherine's life in England was much different from her life in Scotland, she adapts well to being caretaker to Duncan's home and seven motherless children. Sparks fly between Duncan and Catherine as they discover a common bond, their love for the children. <br />    Haywood Smith has written an excellent Elizabethan historical that keeps the reader intrigued until the last page is done. The romance between the hero and the heroine is wonderful, not merely a &quot;love at first sight&quot; but a gradual awareness of one another that develops into a deep and abiding love which must endure some difficult tests. This is a wonderful read especially for those who are looking for something richer than the typical historical.	2001-04-18
US	44498121	R33T80E8OMU8N	0440235227	407450033	Midnight Honor	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fantastic Historical Romance	Angus Moy and wife Anne find themselves on opposing sides in this 18th century romance set in the months preceding Culloden, a battle where the Scots were defeated trying to restore Prince Charles to the throne. Marsha Canham has written a novel that shows that loyalties aren't always evidenced in terms of black and white but also in shades of gray. She poignantly depicts the choices a woman must make when she feels that her husband has betrayed her thereby causing her to have recurrent thought of a past love who is loyal to her cause.<br />  The battlefields seem to come alive in vivid detail. One can almost feel the pain of the soldiers as they struggle to survive on little sleep and less food while maintaining their honor on the battlefield. With a truly remarkable heroine and previously unsung hero, this book can do no wrong.	2001-04-13
US	44498121	R1DHDKOG32Q8L0	0804119554	900455028	Fallen	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Well-writen regency	Gabriel Loudon, Earl of Rievaulx, was a special operative for the British during the Napeolonic Wars.  At the request of his friend Oriel, he travels to the Isle of Skye seeking redemption for his inadvertent loss of intelligence information which resulted in the deaths of two colleagues.<br />    In his search for L'Ecossais, a Scot who is also a French spy, Gabriel meets Maggie MacLeod, a fiercely loyal Scot and a compassionate woman with a healing nature.  Will love prevail when Gabriel tells Maggie that L'Ecossais might be one of he own?<br />    Emma Jensen makes one feel as if they are acutally climbing the cliffs on the Isle of Skye.  She skillfully blends local Scots folklore with intrigue and romance which will keep you guessing until the very end.	2001-04-04
