US	44540940	R10T7BAD0UHVQ4	0679454438	148918425	The Road to Reality : A Complete Guide to the Laws of the Universe	Books	4	19	25	N	N	An awesome but quite difficult treatise.	Roger Penrose is one of the greatest minds of our time, and has not enjoyed the fame he deserves. He may be the greatest cosmologist since Einstein. <br /> <br />Do not read this book unless you have some graduate training in physics or mathematics, preferably both. Penrose is not a bad writer, but the technical level of much of his book is high. Penrose tries to introduce the reader to a host of mathematical topics important to contemporary physics: complex analysis, groups, Clifford algebras, manifolds, non-Euclidian geometry, fiber bundles, more. <br /> <br />Reader beware. Penrose's views on a fundamental physics are not standard. Few theoretical physicists share Penrose's passion for twistors and his disdain for string theory. Penrose's belief that general relativity is in essence correct, but that quantum mechanics is incomplete and will have to undergo major revision before a unified theory of the four forces of nature becomes possible, is likewise a minority viewpoint. <br />  <br />Penrose is an awesome mathematician and theoretical physicist. But philosophical shrewdness and knowledge of the history of ideas are not his strong points. In this regard, Barrow and Tipler's The Anthropic Cosmological Principle is more satisfying.  <br /> <br />I like the way the book begins, with a fictional treatment of a Cretan witnessing from many miles away the colossal volcanic eruption of Thera, believed to have ended Minoan civlisation, and perhaps the historical basis for the seven plagues visited on Egypt and described in Exodus. <br />	2005-08-21
US	44540940	RKVJXYKDQ9PKB	1930865473	869388620	In Defense of Global Capitalism	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A Free Social Order Requires Free Markets and Free Initiative	I give this book 4 stars because it is a fine restatement of that which is already known but unfairly ignored. It is a work of exposition, not of discovery; it does not truly break new ground. <br /> <br />If Norberg had studied any economics, the jacket blurb would mention that fact, if only to enhance his credibility. Yet the only stated qualification of the author is an MA in the history of ideas, not an education likely to make one sympathetic to economic reasoning. From the fact that the blurbs are silent about any training in economics, I conclude that Norberg has none. If so, that is utterly remarkable: Norberg is an exceedingly rare instance of someone who reasons like a very competent applied economist without having studied the subject. This is all the more remarkable given Norberg's avowed bohemian past, and his hailing from that erstwhile social democratic paradise called Sweden. (Two quick historical asides: (1) nationalized firms are rare in Scandinavia; (2) the Vikings soon came to prefer trade to plunder, selling amber, furs, and iron.) <br /> <br />Along the way, Norberg acquired a fascination with economic and social science data, about which he is a bit undercritical. For starters, it is a nontrivial exercise to compare the standard of living of nations with different currencies. GDP per capita is a defensible starting point, but converting data in different currencies into US$ using exchange rates can be highly misleading. In the jargon of economics, the problem here is the total failure of absolute PPP, and the failure of relative PPP for all but the very long run. There are ways around this problem, but the results can be trusted only when comparing nations whose economic and industrial sophistication are within hailing distance of each other, e.g., Japan and Korea. It remains highly problematic to compare the per capita GDPs of these nations with, e.g., China's. For starters, how reliable is calculated GDP for China, when the legality of manyordinary business transactions is untested there? <br /> <br />I do agree, however, that the extant data bear out the thrust of Norberg's argument. Freedom and private property promote scientific and social progress. Nor do I wish to deny that China has made astounding material progress since Mao's death. Newsmagazine photographs of downtown Shanghai clearly attest to that (and put my home city to shame!!) But this progress is not an end in itself. Will Chinese universities train and hire philosophers worth studying? Will the Chinese write novels worth reading closely? Will a Chinese computer scientist invent the next dominant computer programming language? <br /> <br />I won't say anything here about Norberg's defence of globalism, because I view restrictions on trade with the Third World as utterly reactionary. The commodities and labor-intensive goods of poor nations must be allowed a place in the sun in the world marketplace. With the proceeds of such exports, poor nations can import some technology-intensive goods, including medical supplies, from the First World. And thus trade affords such nations a chance to pull themselves up by the bootstraps, as it were. <br /> <br />If one grants Norberg's argument, the European Union is in trouble: it has become in effect an attempt to protect Europe's high-cost social democracy from cheaper foreign competition. In recent decades, more and more social democratic policies have become all-Union bureaucratic norms. Hence any single EU member cannot gain competitive advantage by attenuating those policies. Moreover, cheap imports from non-EU nations are greatly restricted. Europe's \\"work optional\\" benefits culture, short work weeks, early retirement age, high minimum wages, and worst of all, restrictions on layoffs, are all doomed; the EU will only delay the inevitable. <br /> <br />When evaluating political and economic arrangements, the question to ask is not: \\"does the contemplated policy satisfy some ideal?\\" but rather\\"how does the policy stack up when compared with concrete alternatives?\\" A representative democracy in which most firms are privately owned, and all firms are keen to trade with the citizens of other nations, should not be held up as an ideal state of affairs. What is desirable about such an arrangement is the ensuing relative freedom persons enjoy to discover, to make defining choices, to reinvent themselves. <br /> <br />At this juncture, let me define capitalism: it is the extension of the concept of private property (excludability, alienability, protection by state force) to the financial liabilities of firms, including an active secondary market in such liabilities. Hence the stock market is the quintessentially capitalist institution. <br /> <br />I now let Norberg speak for himself at some length, as per pp 16-17 of his book: <br /> <br />\\"Basically, what I believe in is neither capitalism nor globalization... I believe in man's capacity for achieving great things and in the combined force resulting from encounters and exchanges. I plead for greater liberty and a more open world... because it provides a setting which liberates individuals and their creativity as no other system can. It spurs the dynamism which has led to human, economic, scientific, and technical advances, and which will continue to do so. Believing in capitalism does not mean believing in growth, the economy, or efficiency. Desirable as these may be, these are only the results. Belief in capitalism is, fundamentally, belief in mankind. <br /> <br />\\"...My aim is freedom and voluntary relations in all fields. The market economy is the result of this in the economic realm; in the cultural realm it means freedom of expression; in politics, democracy and the rule of law; in social life, the right to live according to one's own values and to choose one's company.  <br /> <br />\\"...The important things in life - love, the family, friendship, one's own way of life - cannot be valued in money... Itis not a desire for lucre that moved me to write a book about globalization... I write this because it is something in which I believe, because to me it matters. And I wish to live in a free society because it grants people the right to choose what matters to them.\\" <br /> <br />	2005-06-25
US	44540940	R3I3LG4LQS2YCA	0465037704	688146771	Where Mathematics Comes From: How The Embodied Mind Brings Mathematics Into Being	Books	5	74	83	N	N	I have seen the future of math and hope it works...	I give this book 5 stars not because it is definitive and \\"correct,\\" but because it proposes an exciting new tack in the philosophy of mathematics. This deeply fascinating book would have been a major addition to that philosophy, a most noble subject, were it not that the authors know little about it. For starters, they do not appreciate the extent to which intuitionists and constructivists have anticipated their attack on what they rightly deprecate as the Romance of (Platonic) Mathematics. Intuitionists entirely agree that mathematics is a human construction serving human purposes; mathematics has no existence apart from this fact.    The philosophy of math has attracted some fine and exciting minds since Frege published his Begriffschrifft in 1879. Around 1900: Russell, of course, but also Husserl. Around 1940: Godel, Quine, Fraenkel, Bernays, Church, Curry, Brouwer, Weyl. More recently: Chihara, Boolos, Parsons, Resnick, Maddy, Shapiro, Detlefsen, Hartrey Field, Burgess, Rosen, Putnam. Regrettably, Lakoff and Nunez appear to have assimilated almost none of this literature.    This cognitive business will eventually have to interact with logic and Ed Zalta's formal theory of abstract objects.     Mathematicians reviewing this book in professional journals, as well as a number of Amazon reviewers, have complained of serious failings in L&N's understanding of some mathematical points. Lakoff argues that the errors found in earlier printings of WMCF are now corrected. On verra...    Readers should keep in mind that Lakoff is a linguist who made his reputation by linking linguistics to cognitive science and the analysis of metaphor. Nunez is a product of the Swiss school of mathematics as grist for cognitive psychology, founded by Piaget. Neither is well-trained in logic, the philosophy of set theory, the axiomatic method, metamathematics, nonstandard analysis and the ontological presuppositions of calculus, the derivations of number systems, and so on.    This bookbuilds on two earlier fine books by Lakoff, his (1987) \\"Women, Fire and Dangerous Things\\" and his (1999 with Mark Johnson) \\"Philosophy in the Flesh.\\". Both books are very far from academic writing at its worst, but their probing analyses of metaphor, Image Schemata, and other concepts from second-generation cognitive science are not easy. Lakoff (1987) was fascinated by some technical ideas of Putnam's, about which WMCF is unaccountably silent. Lakoff and Johnson contains philosophical riches (thanks to Johnson, a significant contemporary philosopher) that I miss in WMCF. Lakoff and Nunez rightly invoke the authority of Saunders MacLane in support of their position. The authors acknowledge Reuben Hersh very warmly, but do not seem acquainted with his (with Philip Davis) \\"The Mathematical Experience.\\" WMCF does not cite J R Lucas's \\"The Conceptual Roots of Mathematics\\" at all.    Nunez has devoted much of his career to thinking about the foundations of analysis, the real and complex numbers, and about what he calls the Basic Metaphor of Infinity. These topics, worthy though they be, form part of the superstructure of mathematics. The efforts of cognitive science should, I submit, be redirected to the foundations thereof. Now Lakoff and Nunez do pay a fair bit of attention early on to logic, Boolean algebra, and the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms. And they do linger a bit over group theory. But logic, set theory, number systems, algebra, relations, mereology, topology, and geometry, more or less in that order, should have been the primary focus of their investigation.     I sense that many working mathematicians resist the approach and conclusions of Lakoff and Nunez. This situation is to be regretted. Mathematics has become an extremely powerful toolbox for the mind. Logic and abstract algebra have much to offer to the social sciences and humanities. But communicating these riches to the wider community has proved difficult, and the problem is worsening. For instance, it seems that set theory has vanished from the school curriculum. My students tell me they do not even hear the word \\"set\\" spoken until their second year at university. (I learned the core of intuitive set theory around age 12 in the 1960s, and the power of set theoretic metaphors has delighted me ever since.) Even something as basic as first order logic is nowadays learned only by the more technical philosophy majors, and by a small subset of math majors. Hence only a few specialists learn more than calculus, applied statistics, differential equations, and a bit of linear algebra. Just how many persons with a university education know what an equivalence class is? A partial order? A morphism? What it means for a set of axioms to have a model? It is my hope that the cognitive approach to mathematics will suggest improvements to the toolbox of abstractions, and better ways to communicate that toolbox to nonspecialists.	2005-06-24
US	44540940	R19I1T4601HL36	0262194708	781243289	The  Iconic Logic of Peirce's Graphs	Books	2	16	22	N	N	Fails to advance our understanding of Peirce's graphs	From 1889 to 1909, C S Peirce devised three systems of graphical logic:  * alpha, isormophic to sentential logic. Alpha also suffices for syllogisms and elementary Boolean algebra.  * beta, isomorphic to first order logic.  * gamma, isomorphic to a peculiar modal logic easily transformable to S4 and S5.    The alpha graphs are well-understood, but have yet to attract the intellectual and pedagogic respect they deserve. Shin chose to exclude gamma from her book; fair call.    Shin claims her book is necessary in substantial part because the 1973 book by Don Roberts makes major errors in interpreting the beta graphs, and Jay Zeman's 1964 Ph.D. thesis makes lesser errors. She may be right, although Roberts (1973) is a good deal easier to read than Shin's book. But I have found a number of errors and misprints in Shin. Moreover, I largely agree with Dale Jacquette's highly critical review of Shin in the Transactions of the CS Peirce Society.    The main difficulty I have with this book is that it fails to clarify the beta graphs. No one will come away from her book thinking \\"this is neater than the refutation tree or natural deduction approach to the quantifiers.\\" I know that the alpha graphs have been taught to middle school students in pilot programs, and suspect that they could be taught as part of 11th grade algebra. There is a possibility that a simplification of the beta graphs could be taught in high school as well, and to undergrads who are not logicians. But Shin's book does nothing to make Peirce's graphical logic more popular and more teachable.    Shin also uses the graphical logic to whip the standard approach to logic using algebraic notation. She ignores a very real problem with graphical logic, namely that it is wasteful of the printed page. I see Peirce's graphical logic not so much as something we should actually practice, but as a source of insights by which to improve standard logic.  For instance, the alpha graphs suggest that the natural deductionapproach to truth functors can be considerably simplified. I think that the beta graphs could likewise inspire major simplifications of  extant ways of handling quantified formulae. (On the other hand, it is possible that the beta graphs cannot improve on Quine's Main Method, which simply works UI and EI hard.) But I doubt that Shin's book will inspire anyone to find such simplifications.     Shin includes more than 50pp on Peirce's philosophy of logic, including his semeiotic approach. This is a fascinating subject, and Shin does a fair job of summarizing some well-understood parts of the Peirce scholarship. But she does not add all that much to our understanding of these topics.     Shin was a student of the late Jon Barwise and a product of Stanford's interdisciplinary group on visual systems. So her book chatters on about \\"multimodal,\\" \\"iconic,\\" etc. I agree that we need careful empirical and philosophical reasoning about visual representation of knowledge, data, and reasoning, if only to design more effective web sites, but prefer the approaches of Edward Tufte and John Sowa.	2005-06-17
US	44540940	R3AR53BWDQORCM	0262112868	733918058	The Coming Generational Storm: What You Need to Know about America's Economic Future	Books	5	9	21	N	N	The Shape of Things to Come	<br />I've not read the book, but I've long though about these matters. <br />Moreover, I've known of, and respected Kotlikoff's work for a quarter century. <br /> <br />While I pretty much agree with the diagnosis of Kotlikoff and Burns, and agree that the Social Security Trust Fund is a fiscal fraud and an economic delusion, a number of reviewers of their book jumpt to alarmist conclusions. Social Security and Medicare will not lead to the end of civilization as we know it. Instead, here's what likely to happen over the next 20-50 years: <br /> <br />* The retirement age will rise to 70; <br />* Benefits will be indexed to wage growth, not inflation; <br />* The old age component of SS will be largely replaced by the equivalent of 401ks. Some form of SS privatization is inevitable; <br />* SS benefits will be paid mostly to those with seriously deficient work histories. They will also be fully taxable; <br />* The USA can offset the consequences of its (relatively) low birth rate by remaining open to young immigrants paying tax; <br />* Price controls on prescription drugs are inevitable; <br />* The Bush-era tax cuts are not sustainable. <br /> <br />Medicare and Medicaid benefits will cover only expenses incurred in a network of Federal hospitals, similar to present day VA hospitals. These Federal hospitals will practice triage, with the rejects being handed a prescription for morphine and shunted to a Hospice. The UK is pretty much here already. <br /> <br />Medicare and Medicaid simply mean that most people end their lives in a medical expense blow-out, a pathetic and silly attempt to delay the inevitable. We need to bite the bullet and recognize that incurring major expense to keep people alive after, say, age 60 or 65, serves no public purpose. The elderly who want to make frantic efforts to stay alive should dig into their own pockets. <br /> <br />I am alarmist about the future of Japan and continental Europe. Those nations are demographic time bombs. <br/>	2005-06-16
US	44540940	R2ZAXYZRMRSPME	0803270763	498236443	The Warriors: Reflections on Men in Battle	Books	4	6	11	N	N	A bit more about the Author	<br />I have not read The Warriors, but wish to point out that its <br />author, J Glenn Gray, is the subject of a recent academic but readable study: <br /> <br />Woessner, Martin (2004) \\"J Glenn Gray: Philosopher, Translator of Heidegger, and Warrior,\\" Transactions of the Charles S Peirce Society 40: 487-512. <br /> <br />While Gray was an authority on Heidegger, he had deeply mixed feelings about him. Gray had a much deeper friendship with Heidegger's student Hannah Arendt. <br /> <br />	2005-04-01
US	44540940	R3CLB8J2WYMYIG	0521784514	651481128	Introduction to Lattices and Order	Books	5	28	42	N	N	Lattice Theory Uber Alles?Begin here	A set with, at minimum, one binary operation is a groupoid. If a situation involves an equivalence relation or some sort of symmetry, some sort of groupoid applies. If the set has, at minimum, two binary operations, and one operation distributes over the other, you have a ringoid. Ringoids, which include the real field we all use every day, tell us much about number systems. <br /> <br />Let there be a groupoid. Denote its single binary operation by concatenation. Let that operation commute and associate. So far, we have a commutative semigroup. Now add idempotency, so that AA=A. With that seemingly trivial axiom we turn a corner, farewell the groupoids, and find ourselves among the semilattices. <br /> <br />Now let there be two binary operations, + and *, that commute and associate. Moreover, assume that A*(A+B) = A = A+(A*B). A*A=A=A+A is now an easy theorem. What you now have is a lattice, of which the best known example is Boolean algebra (which requires added axioms). More generally, most logics can be seen as interpretations of bounded lattices. Given any relation of partial or total order, the corresponding algebra is lattice theory.  Nevertheless, far fewer mathematicians specialize in lattices than in groupoids and ringoids. <br /> <br />Davey and Priestley has become the classic introduction to lattice theory in our time. Sad to say, it has little competition. It is a bit harder than I would prefer, and the authors do not say enough about the value of lattice theory for nonclassical logic. Their book is a classic nonetheless, and here's hoping that Gian Carlo Rota was right when he said that the 21st century shall be the century of lattices triumphant. <br />Lattice theory is largely due to the work of the American Garrett Birkhoff, writing in the 1930s. He gets my vote for the <br />greatest American mathematician of all time.	2005-03-27
US	44540940	R3VILYPZF7LWVL	0486616304	432680204	Axiomatic Set Theory (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	57	57	N	N	A classic exposition of ZFC	Mathematics is a first order theory whose primitive formulae  all take the form 'a is a member of b'. 'a' can be a set or atom; 'b' must be a set. If you do not object to the preceding sentence, then read on.    Axiomatic Set Theory (AST) lays down the axioms of the now-canonical set theory due to Zermelo, Fraenkel (and Skolem), called ZFC. Building on ZFC, Suppes then derives the theory of cardinal and ordinal numbers, the integers, rationals, and reals, and the transfinite--Cantor's paradise. Suppes accomplishes in 250 well laid out pages what required 800 crabbed pages in Principia Mathematica.    This book evolved out of a class Suppes taught at Stanford in the long ago 1950s. It has since remained the best book of its kind. The reason is that subsequent presentations of set theory are too difficult, too contrived, too clever by half. They disdain the basics as old hat.    AST has several valuable pedagogical features.     1. The introduction to relations and functions is the best I know of. I am disappointed at how little attention has been devoted to relations and relational algebra in recent decades.    2. Suppes has a nice way of introducing a simple axiom, then showing that that axiom is a theorem when a more complicated axiom is later introduced. In particular, he develops the theory of cardinals by means of a temporary axiom to the effect that equipollent sets have identical cardinalities. This axiom becomes a theorem when the axiom of Choice is introduced in the final chapter.    The axiom schema of Replacement is introduced as late as possible, to enable transfinite arithmetic. He then turns around and shows that Replacement makes Subsets and Pairing redundant.    In my opinion, the greatest flaw of ZFC is that defining a cardinal number requires either the axiom of Choice, or Infinity plus the subtle notion of set rank. Frege and Russell had an appealing definition: a cardinal number is an equivalence class of sets under equipollence. That definition does not work in ZFC. It does work in Quinian set theory. Suppes does a yeoman's job of battling this flaw.    3. Suppes defines a finite set in the interesting way Tarski proposed in 1924.      AST contains hundreds and hundreds of theorems, man of them useful classics. In many cases, the proof is an exercise. Suppes's proof are of the informal sort typical of mathematics. What AST does can be done more rigorously: type 'Metamath' into Google and see for yourself.    Even though Suppes is a philosopher, this book is almost entirely a mathematical exercise. The reader will not get a good feel for how set theory is part of analytic philosophy, and how it has been a contentious subject. The writings of  Fraenkel and Bar Hillel are better in these respects. Suppes does highlight the reservations re the axiom of Choice, but Cohen's proof that Choice is independent of ZF has largely laid those reservations to rest, except for those of us with constructive sympathies. AST gives no hint that Replacement and Power Set give us far more set theory than is needed in practice. Thanks to the work of Aczel and Barwise, published around 1990, we have a better idea of what it means to dispense with Regularity. Shortly after the 1960 publication of AST, Lawvere and others began to lay down the category theoretic foundation of mathematics knowns as topos theory. That theory puts ZFC in a new light. Personally, I am astonished that an axiomatization of finite sets simpler than ZF has yet to emerge.	2005-02-24
US	44540940	R1SDDAQ734KMK5	041520738X	732878578	Conceptual Roots of Mathematics (International Library of Philosophy)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	An Outstanding Undergraduate Text	The price of this book appalls. Would someone please see to it that it remains in print as an affordable paperback edition?    I begin by quoting from Lucas's Introduction: \\"To start from the absolutely incontestable is to start from nowhere... any actual starting point could be put into question by a skilful sceptic... a metaphor of Descartes metaphor is more appropriate: we should think of mathematics not as a building based on foundations, but as a tree grounded in the soil of our general conceptual structure, and growing both up and down.\\" Thus the title of this book.    Lucas, a fine British academic philosopher whose interests have ranged over mathematics, physics, classics, and political philosophy, is the author of a startling and very controversial 1961 article on the interface among philosophy, computer science, and the philosophy of mind: \\"Minds, Machines, and Godel.\\" This article much influenced \\"Godel Escher Bach,\\" and Howard DeLong's \\"Profile of Mathematical Logic.\\" Dale Jacquette agrees with Lucas's thesis; Judson Webb does not. I share Lucas's skepticism re artificial intelligence.    I think of Lucas's book as a recent and splendid addition to the saga begun by Russell's \\"Principles of Mathematics.\\" Russell rightly believed that the philosophy of mathematics is fascinating, but his intellectual ethics left something to be desired. Frege and Brouwer fascinate as well, but are difficult. C S Peirce's contributions to logic and mathematics have only started to receive the detailed treatment they richly deserve, thanks to Geraldine Brady's 2000 book. Contemporary authors (e.g., Chihara, Hellman, Shapiro, Maddy, Crispin wright, Resnick, Detlefsen) are readable, but appreciating what they say requires knowing a lot about what their predecessors wrote. Such are the many pitfalls along the trail Russell blazed circa 100 years ago.    Lucas' book is a major exception. Published in the author's 70th year, as he was ending a long and fruitful Oxford career, the book distills a lifetime of teaching and thinking about the philosophy of mathematics. Lucas advocates a chastened logicism, a stance with which I sympathize. But I admire this book not so much for its substantive conclusions but for its sound pedagogy and good humour. Unlike most books of its ilk, it contains diagrams, charts, tables, sidebar summaries, even cartoons, all to good pedagogic effect. Lucas rightly does not assume that every reader of his book is an experienced and polished intellectual. I invite the reader to peruse the \\"summaries\\" on pp. 435-41, and to ponder when she last saw something so pithy and useful in a philosophy text. I surmise that Lucas for many years taught undergrads, and these can leave something to be desired, even at Oxford! The references alone (footnotes only, alas no bibliography) make the book worthwhile. The result is a book written not to impress fellow dons, but to instruct the laity knowing some math and logic.    Lucas tries hard to take the reader by the hand through Godel's famous results. He does not cite the simplified approach of George Boolos (reprinted in Reuben Hersh's \\"What Is Mathematics, Really?\\"). \\"Conceptual Foundations\\" was also finished just before David Berlinski published his related gentle treatment of Godel's results. Lucas inevitably slights some topics (e.g., model theory, Intuitionism) to which I would have given more airplay. Suppes's classic 1960 treatment of ZFC set theory is nowhere mentioned. Lucas argues that set theory is primarily transfinite arithmetic, which is not very relevant to mathematical practice; I concur. Indeed, only two infinities matter for nearly all of mathematics, aleph null, and the continuum.    Lucas gives a convincing reason, drawn from Latin philology, for renaming the quantifiers as 'quotifiers.' He also proposes the notation 'V' for existential and 'A' for universal quantification. He did not know that, but for a minor detail, this is essentially the notation of Tarskiand his Berkeley students!    Lucas does discuss in some detail three topics I think  insufficiently discussed elsewhere:    1. Godel proved that if Peano arithmetic (PA) is consistent, there are PA sentences that are true but unprovable, and that adding axioms does not alter this result. Hence PA (and all mathematics) is necessarily incomplete (and ipso facto undecidable). Now the only nontrivial PA axiom is a schema permitting induction over the naturals.    Robinson showed in 1950 that a fragment of PA, whose axioms are (a) the usual recursive definitions of addition and multiplication, (b) \\"if x and y have equal successors, then x=y,\\" and (c) \\"0 is the sole number that is not the successor of a number,\\" is likewise incomplete. This fragment is elsewhere named Q but Lucas calls it \\"Sorites arithmetic.\\" Q includes no schemata; hence the Godelian incompleteness of PA cannot be blamed on the principle of induction;    2. Lucas devotes a pleasant and discursive chapter to relations, culminating in the rich tree diagram on p. 270, and rightly arguing that transitive relations are central to mathematics. Add symmetry and reflexivity to obtain equivalence relations; these inturn give rise to groups, monoids, and category theory. Replace symmetry with antisymmetry and obtain partial orderings, giving rise to lattices, trees, logics, and mereology. Take reflexivity away and obtain strict orderings, which include the well-ordering beloved of set theorists. Let no one who has not mastered this material call himself an analytic philosopher!    3. Mereotopology, a marriage of geometry, mereology, and topology that began with Whitehead's \\"The Principles of Natural Knowledge\\" and \\"The Concept of Nature,\\" and matured into the systems of Bowman Clarke and Casati & Varzi (1999). While the latter say much more about mereotopology than Lucas does, much of what he writes is novel because based on unpublished writing by David Bostock, his Merton College colleague and fellow classicist, whose ideas on logic and mathematics, like Lucas's, deserve more attention. Until Bostock publishes his own book on the foundations of mathematics, we will have to content ourselves with Lucas's version of Bostock's ideas.    I close by quoting one of Lucas's last sentences: \\"...if these notes help towards informed disagreement, I shall be well content.\\"	2004-08-14
US	44540940	RCFZ64XKX64I2	0521483255	399334657	The Logic of Provability	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Outstanding, but Difficult	<br />George Boolos regrettably died too early, at age 56. He was a witty engaging writer, and a brilliant logician. This book, <br />completed not long before his untimely death, is probably <br />the high point of his career. The key insight, that modal logic <br />can be interpreted as a sort of metamathematical algebra, <br />is Godel's from the 1930s. And a key result is due to Martin <br />Lob about 50 years ago. But Boolos built a towering edifice  <br />on this slim material. I think that the provability interpretation <br />of the modal operator is the most philosophically and mathematically satisfying of all, and I hope someone comes <br />along to pick up the baton that has fallen from Boolos's hand. <br />	2004-08-03
US	44540940	R3HS2A7MZSFCZ	9812386068	114822171	The Number Systems of Analysis	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Where do numbers come from?	That question is absolutely fundamental to mathematics and philosophy, and this book deserves to become the classic answer for our time. Everyone specializing in analysis, fields, foundations, or the philosophy of mathematics should learn this material.<br /><br /> A little over 100 years ago, Dedekind, Frege, Peano, and Russell-Whitehead tackled this fundamental intellectual question. The culimination of these endeavours was Principia Mathematica, the mathematical equivalent of Battlestar Galactica. What came out of this vast enterprise was numbers as equivalence classes, given some flavour of set theory.<br /><br /> In 1930, the Gottingen mathematician Edmund Landau published a little book, whose preface read &quot;my daughters are chemistry majors and haven't a clue as to why ab=ba, or why that might need proving. Hence this book.&quot; Landau began with the Peano axioms. Landau's book is an aging classic, badly typeset; the same holds for the 1951 English translation.<br /><br /> Suppes's 1960 book on ZF set theory includes a fine derivation of the integers, rationals as equivalence classes, and the reals as Dedekind cuts. But the development of the natural numbers required the axiom of choice. This is the abstract equivalent of equipping the police with nuclear weapons. Something is amiss here. Quine's Set Theory and Its Logic tells this story from a much leaner set of axioms, one not including Choice. But his prose and Principia notation make for hard going, and his approach has no following.<br /><br /> In 2003, along come Little, Teo, and Van Brunt, who do a superb job of deriving the numbers from natural to complex, build some nice bridges to elementary analysis, and prove the fundamental theorem of algebra. The reals are developed as Cauchy sequences rather than Dedekind cuts. The presentation is elegant and well thought out. My only objection is that the authors are coy about having grounded their story in ZF; the axioms are there, but are not called axioms and are buried in narrative prose. Nevertheless, it can be deciphered that the minimalist ontological grounding for this marvelous exercise is as follows: the null set exists and seeds an inductive set. For better or worse, the names Dedekind, Peano, and von Neumann do not appear in the index.	2004-07-31
US	44540940	R1JFXHHUR2RMX4	0486638294	583445801	Set Theory and Logic (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	70	72	N	N	Incredible Best Buy	This book is without peer in its breadth of coverage of the foundations of mathematics and logic. I have given this book only 4 stars, because its treatment of any given topic<BR>is not classic. It is the total package that astounds.<BR>For a mere $15, you get a challenging undergraduate introduction to all of the following topics. I have written in parentheses the names of authors of more definitive treatments:<br />Intuitive set theory through the axiom of choice (Halmos)<br />Natural numbers Æ Integers Æ Rationals Æ Reals (Feferman)<br />Mathematical logic (Machover, Smullyan)<br />Metamathetics (Machover, Mendelson)<br />Introduction to the axiomatic approach<br />ZF axiomatic set theory (Suppes)<br />Boolean algebra through Stone's theorem and the completeness of sentential logic (Halmos & Givant)<br />Algebra (Birkhoff & MacLane's \\"Algebra\\")<br />Stoll's style is quite discursive, far from the terse lemma-theorem-corollary-remark style of so much 20th century mathematics. My only major disappointment is that the formal proof technique set out in chpt. 4 is natural deduction rather than the tableau method or Quine's Main Method.<br />It is indeed the case that there are no solutions to the exercises, but I do not believe that that is a major flaw.	2003-06-27
US	44540940	R1UY9OPGQX53C9	026203266X	858989480	Parts and Places: The Structures of Spatial Representation	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Splendid intro to contemporary mereology	I like this book very much but cannot say that I have assimilated much of it yet. But it describes a line of thinking which I think is going to come into its own over the course of this new century. The bibliography is excellent.    Mereology all begins with Husserl's Logical Investigations in 1901. These had almost no impact until translated into English in 1970. Whitehead wrote on related topics but made for notoriously hard reading. (In the 1980s, Bowman Clarke splendidly corrected Whitehead's theory.) The American Theodore De Laguna adds his 2 cents worth in 1922. Lesniewski in Poland writes fascinating stuff starting in 1916, but nobody understands him except his brilliant student Tarski, who writes a nice little introduction but buries it as a technical appendix to a British book on mathematical biology. The USA philosopher Nelson Goodman finally produces a user-friendly version, and calls it the calculus of individuals. Again, nobody pays much attention and that's a pity.    The formal theory of part and whole finally takes off in the 1960s and now flourishes. Parts and Places is an excellent university level introduction to this theory, known as mereology.  Mereology can be viewed as a type of formal philosophy, and Casati and Varzi are most definitely highly competent philosophers writing in the relaxed manner of contemporary English language philosophy.    But I submit that mereology is also a form of math, altho' one unlike the chicken tracks that pass for math nowadays. This is math as math should be. Here's a little giveaway. C&S, like Peter Simons, refuse to apply mereology to abstract entities, and focus exclusively on material ones. Result? They are, IMHO, doing a sort of proto-geometry. Another giveaway: C&S often mention topology.    Mereology is first order logic with equality and a primitive dyadic predicate interpreted as \\"is included in\\" or \\"is part of\\".  If you grant the useful fiction of a null individual, then much  of the mathematics of mereology is good old Boolean algebra. Otherwise mereology is a join semilattice.    Like it or not, contemporary metaphysics has grown ever more mereological in flavor. Mereology is also useful for cognitive science, and probably for linguistics (mass/count nouns, etc). It may find applications in physics, can't say for sure. David Lewis, in his \\"Parts of Classes\\" convinced me that a mereological refoundation of ZF set theory was possible. Richard Martin (1916-85) argued that much of mathematics can be recast on mereological lines. David Bostock has argued that mereology should be the foundation of the theory of measurement. Peter Roeper has laid out a mereological refoundation of topology. If mereology displaces set theory, P&P and \\"Holes\\" become classics.    This book has a close competitor: Peter Simons's \\"Parts\\" of 1987.  The first 100 pages of Parts is a richer introduction to the formalities of classical mereology than P&P. Simons is also philosophically deeper than Parts and Places. The main strength of the latter is its coverage of the substantial recent progress in mereotopology, and of the applications of mereology to machine intelligence.	2003-06-10
US	44540940	R1JKC5LD1WHBLV	0070466491	625757711	Schaum's Outline of Logic	Books	4	51	59	N	N	Excellent value, well written, a bit old fashioned.	The good news. This book is excellent value for the money, and is the best written Schaum's Outline I have ever read. It is certainly not excessively mathematical, compared to nearly everything that passes for logic nowadays. Schaum's outlines are seldom written by first-raters in their respective fields. This is a clear exception; Varzi is a first rate contemporary philosopher. I would even call this book an excellent example of modern scientific communication.    The bad news. The book's approach to logic is a bit on the old fashioned side. Much of the material on traditional logic could have been omitted. The book shares a flaw that is sadly all too common: trivial propositions take 20-40 lines to prove. The refutation tree or natural deduction machinery of this and other contemporary texts is far too ponderous. This book, like all too many books in the philosophical logic tradition, devotes time to topics that leave me cold, such as modal logic. Meanwhile, it slights or omits topics that fascinate me, such as mereology, the isomorphism between truth functors and Boolean algebra, and metatheory. I like probability and inductive logic and feel that these have a great deal to offer to logic and philosophy, but this book only scratches the surface of these topics. The main consumers of logic nowadays are computer scientists. It is not at all clear that this book would be of any value to them. On the other hand, this is an excellent book for a philosophy major.	2003-06-10
US	44540940	R17TDXLDK3A87J	0141003146	869075459	Logic	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The best into to modern logic there is.	Hodges, please get a second edition of this wonderful book back into print!!<br />This is probably the best intro there is to modern logic for people without prior training in science and math. The examples are all taken form linguistics and philosophy. Ironically, the author is also a high power mathematician, but he does not let that show. This is the book Quine should have written instead of his Elementary Logic. Also clearer and less threatening to sanity than Spencer Brown's Laws of Form.	2003-05-28
US	44540940	R2DSPLFQE22QRC	0883853272	891752372	Logic as Algebra (Dolciani Mathematical Expositions)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A superb introduction to the glories of Boolean algebra	This book is an undergrad introduction to Boolean algebraic logic and Halmos, who worked hard in the area during the 1950s, is the person to write it. The book includes Halmos's monadic algebra, but remains at the undergrad level because he stops short of his full-blown polyadic algebra (on which, see Halmos's \\"Algebraic Logic,\\" which AMS keeps in print and is a fine read).    While Halmos does not cover all of first order logic, he does an excellent job of introducing the reader to the great power and depth of Boolean algebra, revealed by Marshall Stone and Tarski in the 1930s, and other Poles in the 1950s. By this I mean Boolean algebra coupled with the notions of filters, ideals, generators, and quotient algebras. The metatheory of the propositional calculus has a very elegant Boolean representation.    Lattice theory is an extremely powerful generalization of Boolean algebra that has not attracted the attention it deserves. If Halmos had written a text on lattice theory, that situation would in all likelihood have ended. Halmos and Givant include an all-too-brief tantalizing chapter on lattices.    If this book has a drawback, it is the relative unsophistication of its first 40 odd pages, an introduction to logic. This is especially disappointing given that Givant is a logician, and an excellent one at that, being a student of Tarski's.    The books main asset is Halmos's lively prose style, unparalleled in modern mathematics. Math PhD students should study this book closely as a superb example of how to exposit mathematics.	2003-05-16
US	44540940	RURY8V13ROQB2	0674665635	37935788	Philosophy of Logic: 2nd Edition	Books	4	42	46	N	N	Good intro to some of Quine's philosophy	This is indeed easier and better organized than Quine's other books. I think it better written than \\"Methods of Logic.\\"  Much of \\"Philosophy of Logic\\" is about the sort of ideas that should be included in university logic texts, but aren't (the first part of Church's 1956 text is an exception to this sweeping assessment, surprising because written by a mathematician). POL Is also a nice introduction to a range of issues in analytical philosophy.    It is the unusual lay person who would find this a profitable read. I say this even though I find the philosophical basis of logic and mathematics deeply fascinating, but it is a fascination I can share with almost no one face to face, and I teach college!    While this is a fine introduction to Quine, the lectures he gave in Spain at 84 years of age, \\"From Stimulus to Science,\\" may be better. I won't deny the weirdness of some of Quine's views. But Quine is less willfully eccentric than many other academic philosphers. Part of the weirdness is that Quine is the closest thing there is to a home grown American member of the Vienna Circle. Quine also shared the instinctive conservatism of the small town midwest he hailed from (Akron OH). This conservatism extended to his views on logic: eg his disdain for modal logic (and for all intensional notions as well), and his dismissal of higher order logic as set theory in disguise. Quine also remained pre-Godelian in many ways. His Mathematical Logic is a sort of last hurrah for Principia Mathematica. He never appreciated the rise of recursive methods or of model theory (even though he admired Tarski). While quite friendly with Carnap, he never understood Carnap's semantical approach.    His 3 logic texts are not a good place to learn metatheory: consistency, completeness, decidability, categoricity, independence.    Quine took little interest in logic before Frege. In his indifference to the history of ideas, he was typical of analytical types. He was 87 when he finally publisheda short essay recognizing the achievements of C S Peirce in the 19th century. Among British philosophers of his generation, he admired a fine fellow: Peter Geach. Quine co-discovered virtual sets and relations, but ignored mereology. He revered science and math, but it is unclear how much of it he really knew. Privately, he believed that philosophy should limit itself to logic, epistemology, philosophy of science, and the chaste metaphysics he himself practiced.    Quine was not a hopeless conservative. Around 1950, he jumped on the natural deduction bandwagon, and walked away from axiomatics. Later, he walked away from natural deduction, but never cottoned on to truth trees. He was intrigued by Haskell Curry's combinatory logic, and invented a modest rival, calling it predicate functor logic. Quine's set theory, underappreciated in mathematical circles, is downright radical. Finally, Quine's approach to Godel's Theorem, while turgid, contained the seeds of the much more elegant later approach of Smullyan.	2003-05-14
US	44540940	RSJHM0W7HPJUB	0631176551	20908310	Parts of Classes	Books	5	23	23	N	N	An overlooked masterpiece of foundational math	A university press should get this back into print pronto! The book is filled with Lewis's tart wit and gentle humor. Had more math been of this nature, I would have majored in math. <br /> <br />While this is a book on the foundations of mathematics, it contains almost no symbolic notation whatsoever (except in an Appendix) and that is its main flaw. A bit of notation would have made the argument easier to follow. Anybody who does not understand first order logic, the ZF axioms of set theory, and the Peano axioms has no business attempting this book. Otherwise it is a wonderfully readable contribution to the foundations of mathematics.  <br /> <br />The formal theory of the part-whole relation, mereology, assumes a primitive relation of parthood. Parthood completely describes the relation of a set to its subsets. Sets are built out of atomic sets, called singletons. Hence the universe of sets is tied together by the parthood relation of classical mereology. Tarski showed in 1929 that mereology requires but two axioms: parthood is transitive, and there exists a unique fusion of any finite number of individuals. <br /> <br />Singletons are formed from atomic individuals, the \\"urelements\\" of Zermelo and others. Lewis's axioms for singletons are essentially those for the successor function of Peano arithmetic, with {x} intepreting the successor of x. This is implicit in Zermelo's 1908 formulation of the axiom of Infinity. The final part of Lewis's argument consists of some ontological assumptions, of the nature of \\"if grant X, then Y will be the case.\\"  <br /> <br />Lewis's most curious argument is that the null set can be any individual, and that it is most convenient to take as the null set the mereological fusion of all individuals. This is very far from the intuitive notion of the empty set as an empty container. <br /> <br />Lewis was not the first person to argue that the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms for set theory can be derived from simpler mereological axioms. He freely admits that a fellow named Harry Bunt scooped him in 1985. Richard Martin (1916-85) made this point even earlier in his \\"Common Names and Mathematical Scotism\\". <br />	2003-05-13
US	44540940	R3HEZQGK0GRJUN	0873953819	72916368	Semiotics and Linguistic Structure: A Primer of Philosophic Logic	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A great text by a master logician	Richard Martin (1916-85) is a seriously undervalued American philosopher. A more engaging writer than Quine, he was also a fan of C S Peirce and of Peirce's semiotic theory. If there is such a thing as a turgid or gloomy Peircian, I have yet to discover such.<br /><br />This book is in two parts. The first is a text on logic as seen through Richard Martin's eyes. It alone makes this book worth the price. In his 1941 Yale PhD, Martin discovered the theory of virtual sets and relations. The discussion of this theory in chpts. 1&2 is the best there is. (Quine discovered this theory independently while writing up his 1942 Brazil lectures, but never truly did it justice.) This is followed by an introduction to mereology, a vastly undervalued mathematical theory of the part-whole relation. Martin goes on to develop an event logic, and a theory of semantics (only Carnap himself can rival Martin as a master of formal semantics). Martin sketches out his ideas can be used to ground mathematics as well as linguistics.  The result is a brilliant introduction to a number of issues in philosophical logic. There is a major omission: metatheory, the crowning glory of mathematical logic which Martin never really understood.<br /><br />Part II uses the logic of part I to develop a formal theory of linguistics. Martin had been a Penn colleague of Zelig Harris. Chomsky studied under Harris and learned most of his logic from Martin. Part II is one of the few places you'll see Harris's theories discussed. The mathematical treatment of the preposition is especially intriguing. Martin believed that language and formal logic were more closely related than is generally believed, and this book makes a good case for this.<br /><br />What is Martin not better known? Because he was a radical nominalist. In the church of set theory, founded by Cantor and Zermelo, Martin was an atheist. Yet Martin went ahead and wrote much on formalized semantics and pragmatics. Almost everybody who has written onthose topics believes that doing so requires set theory, and a model theory grounded in set theory. Martin insisted that one could think about semantics and pragmatics using, in place of set theory, virtual sets/relations, a Boolean version of the calculus of individuals (anathema to nearly everyone writing on mereology), and an idiosyncratic event logic. Nearly everyone who encountered Martin's writings, Richard Montague in particular, threw up their hands saying \\"this guy simply doesn't get it.\\" I say that they jury is still out re the fate of Martin's approach.	2003-05-10
US	44540940	R2CMI0ISJ5T9XX	0486604535	159811835	Introduction to Symbolic Logic and Its Applications	Books	4	55	60	N	N	A real bargain by a true master	Rudolf Carnap was one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century, and the only student of Frege's worth thinking about. But what a student!    This is his intro text, a doubtful first text, but full of insight for those who already know some logic. Carnap trained as a mathematician; surprisingly, his text is of value mainly for philosophers. For instance, this is the ONLY undergrad logic text I know that grapples with the intension-extension dichotomy, with the Carnap-Morris syntax-semantics-pragmatics trichotomy. Metatheory is nonexistent, and Carnap's notion of proof is emphatically too casual for my taste.  The book is also dated. In its treatment of first order logic, Carnap is a bit too loyal to Principia Mathematica. His axioms are a bit pedantic, a bit inelegant for my taste. (Quantified formulae are much easier to work with than Carnap and his contemporaries realized; all you need to do with quantified variables is to instantiate them! See the \\"main method\\" of Quine's Methods of Logic.) You won't learn any natural deduction, truth trees, or Gentzen sequents here. You most definitely won't learn anything about recursion. But the exposition incorporates thoughout Carnap's greatest discovery: his formal theory of semantics. You will also learn more about the logic of relations than you will in any other undergrad text. You will be given an idea of the mathematical power of logic (infinity, continuity, numbers). You will even be introduced to the lambda calculus, Alonzo Church's great discovery. Carnap was comfortable with the notion of a predicate letter like few logicians since.    Part II of the book is without parallel anywhere: an introduction to a very wide range of axiomatic theories, presented as interesting applications of modern formal logic. This is a wonderful reference for ZF set theory, Peano axioms, Tarski's axioms for the reals, the Hausdorff- Bohnenblust axioms for topology, axioms for geometry, space-time, and mirabile dictu, even mereology. Other texts present at most the first 2 items on this list.	2003-05-10
US	44540940	R30RT6AAZILCZ5	0828400792	94580216	Foundations of Analysis: The Arithmetic of Whole, Rational, Irrational and Complex Numbers	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A classic that should remain in print	Dover, please put this classic back into print!!<BR>This does for numbers what Suppes (1960) did for ZF set theory.	2003-05-04
US	44540940	RF4WCLY16K0RG	0442053002	732578021	Introduction to Mathematical Logic (University Series in Undergraduate Mathematics)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	A classic of math logic, sans philosophy	This book is a bit of an elegy to a dying world: the math logic of the 20th century.<BR>It does not cover any nonclassical or philosophical logic, directions heavily researched in recent decades. Algebraic logic is slighted, even though Mendelson was an authority on Boolean algebra. Nor does he do justice to the model theoretic perspective, although the treatment of the Tarski semantics for first order logic in chpt. 2 is a bit of a classic. The treatment of recursion in chpts. 3 and 5 are thorough. The set theory of chpt. 4 is a bit unconventional (NBG rather than ZF) but is well exposited. My overall complaint is the crabbed notation, altho he's come a long way since the first edition. The book also cries out for a more graceful English style and page layout. Here Machover (1996) stands out.<BR>Mendelson's bibliography is wonderfully long and rich. Finally, this text contains perhaps the gentlest extant introduction to second order logic.	2003-05-04
US	44540940	R9U5QAR8QB3C8	0674554515	208040431	Mathematical Logic, Revised Edition	Books	4	30	34	N	N	Very good but be aware of omissions	This book is indeed much shorter than Principia, mainly because it is derived for lecture notes for a 1 semester PhD course. It is also a lot clearer than PM. But the notation is largely the same, which makes for hard reading if your are under 50. Quine's proof format doesn't take up much space, but has always eluded me. This book contains the best treatment of truth functional and quantificational logic prior to natural deduction and truth trees.<br />I like the set theory of this book, but I warn you that it is very nonstandard. Even ardent lovers of Quine's NF theory hate<BR>the ML theory of this book.<br />The weakness of this book is its treatment of metatheory:<BR>consistency, completeness, decidability, categoricity. The treatment of Godel's incompleteness is detailed and highly original (altho' it owes more to Tarski than to Godel). But it is very difficult, and Smullyan (1991) is much better.<BR>Quine also had no clue re model theory or recursion.<br />I respect the historical remarks a lot. Just one big omission: Quine, like nearly everyone of his generation, missed that<BR>math logic as we know and love it does not descend from Frege, but from an 1885 article by C S Peirce.	2003-04-14
US	44540940	R7YE556SVUCVH	069105858X	569544972	The Search for Mathematical Roots, 1870-1940	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The best book of its kind in existence	I have owned a copy for over a year, and not a week goes by in which I do not consult it. The 50pp bibliography alone is worth the price.    Modern foundational mathematics emerged around 1840, with the work of Boole, De Morgan, and Bolzano. In the 1870s, Cantor, Peirce, Frege made their appearance. In the 1890s, Peano, Hilbert, Russell and Whitehead came on line. The author is an authority on Cantor, Peano, the rise of set theory, on Russell, and Principia Mathematica, and these are covered in great detail. The era closes in the 1930s, with the negative metatheorems of Goedel and Church, and the rise of Quine. All this makes for an exciting human adventure, and this book is the best narrative we have of that adventure.    The book is a gold mine of details little known to most philosophers and to nearly all mathematicians. Here I learned that Husserl was trained as a mathematician, and that much of foundational mathematics can be seen as a meditation on bits of Kant. I should grant that IGG is not fair to everyone: Skolem, for instance, is slighted. Also, this book is far from definitive about Polish logic, which deserves a book of its own.	2003-02-07
US	44540940	R1X558HE5SWLOS	0198247737	884339992	The Development of Logic	Books	4	11	16	N	N	A major flaw	A major flaw is K&amp;K's silence about Whately's Logic of 1826. This book , which went into many editions over nearly 100<BR>years, was instrumental in the revival of logic in the English speaking world. Reading Whately made logicians out of De Morgan, C S Peirce, William Hamilton.<BR>For the history of logic after 1840 or so, K&amp;K is superseded by Grattan-Guiness's The Search for Mathematical Roots.	2003-02-07
US	44540940	R32MMXL98FP8PE	0198247737	884339992	The Development of Logic	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Uneven but worth while	Very strong on Frege, although because it was written in 1962,it  cannot reflect the ample scholarship of the past 40 years.  Meticulous about the logic of the classical era. Deprecates  Lukasiewicz's attempt to formalize the syllogism (Arthur Prior's Formal Logic does a better job on this technical topic.)  They do NOT do justice to how Leibniz is the most exciting logician between Aristotle and Boole.  Good on Boole, because Wm Kneale contributed importantly to the postwar Boole revival.  Slights the important contributions of Charles Sanders Peirce, although again, his importance has become much clearer since this book was written.  Surprisingly lukewarm about Principia Mathematica.  Fairly clear about topics (eg, recursive arithmetic) other texts make difficult.	2003-02-07
US	44540940	RXYKMAAM008O	0199241465	57564240	Parts: A Study in Ontology	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Discover mereology: the mathematics of the future	Mereology is a theory of the relation of part to whole, one that deviates gently from Boolean algebra and set theory. This is the best book on mereology in existence.<br />Mereology is Boolean algebra with 1 but no 0, set theory with a universal set but no null set, a semilattice closed under meet but not join. Mereology also has interesting affinities to topology. The mathematical implications of all this have yet to be explored.<br />Mereology was developed in Poland between the wars. It is also central to Nelson Goodman's (1906-98) &quot;Structure of Appearance.&quot;<BR>Woodger at Oxford and Tarski at Berkeley were sympathetic to mereology. David Bostock's brilliant 1970s work on the foundations of numbers has an important mereological component.<BR>The late David Lewis wrote a wonderful book, &quot;Parts of Classes&quot; (1991) in which he derived Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory from a handful of very primitive mereological concepts. Mereology will be part of the mathematics of the future, and &quot;Parts&quot; is an excellent place to begin this journey.<br />Simons is critical of what he calls &quot;classical extensional mereology&quot; (CEM), but the first 100 pages of his book are by far and away the best survey of CEM ever done. To understand Simons's reservations about CEM, you need to understand some nonclassical logics: free, modal, temporal.<br />If this book has a flaw, it is that it is more in the nature of a giant survey article than a monograph presenting a coherent body of new knowledge. At the very end of the book, however, the author does commit to an elegant and simple mathematical system. Also, the author claims only to be interested in mereology as a theory of material objects situated in time, disdaining mereology as theory of abstract objects. This would appear to rule out mereology as an alternative foundation for mathematics. I confidently predict that the mental toolbox Simons has created will eventually be applied, very profitably, to abstractions.	2002-11-12
US	44540940	R14I01ZEYGBGW7	0199241465	57564240	Parts: A Study in Ontology	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Discover mereology: the mathematics of the future	Mereology is a theory of the relation of part to whole, one that deviates gently from Boolean algebra and set theory. This is the best book on mereology in existence.<br />Mereology is Boolean algebra with 1 but no 0, set theory with a universal set but no null set, a semilattice closed under meet but not join. Mereology also has interesting affinities to topology. The mathematical implications of all this have yet to be explored.<br />Mereology was developed in Poland between the wars. It is also central to Nelson Goodman's (1906-98) &quot;Structure of Appearance.&quot;<BR>Woodger at Oxford and Tarski at Berkeley were sympathetic to mereology. David Bostock's brilliant 1970s work on the foundations of numbers has an important mereological component.<BR>The late David Lewis wrote a wonderful book, &quot;Parts of Classes&quot; (1991) in which he derived Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory from a handful of very primitive mereological concepts. Mereology will be part of the mathematics of the future, and &quot;Parts&quot; is an excellent place to begin this journey.<br />Simons is critical of what he calls &quot;classical extensional mereology&quot; (CEM), but the first 100 pages of his book are by far and away the best survey of CEM ever done. To understand Simons's reservations about CEM, you need to understand some nonclassical logics: free, modal, temporal.<br />If this book has a flaw, it is that it is more in the nature of a giant survey article than a monograph presenting a coherent body of new knowledge. At the very end of the book, however, the author does commit to an elegant and simple mathematical system. Also, the author claims only to be interested in mereology as a theory of material objects situated in time, disdaining mereology as theory of abstract objects. This would appear to rule out mereology as an alternative foundation for mathematics. Nevertheless, I confidently predict that the mental toolbox Simons has created will eventually be applied, very profitably, to abstractions, including foundational mathematics.	2002-11-12
US	44540940	RWW8Z9LIPKLOE	0521626064	766593009	Principia Mathematica to *56 (Cambridge Mathematical Library)	Books	4	50	58	N	N	Mostly of historical interest	The notation of PM is hard to read by anyone who learned logic post 1960, say. The typesetting is archaic. Hundreds of theorems are proved, but it is not clear where<BR>they all lead. Russell and Whitehead are guilty of a number of major philosophical confusions, such as use and mention, between meta- and object language, and their confused notion of &quot;propositional function.&quot; Their choice of axioms can be much improved upon. The PM theory of types and orders is a complicated horror; Chwistek, Ramsey, and others later showed that it could be radically simplified. R &amp; W think they can substitute the intensional for the extensional, and ultimately define sets and relations in logical terms. PM does not have a clue about model theory or metatheory. There is no hint of proofs of consistency, completeness, categoricity, and Loewenheim-Skolem. In this sense, the fathers of modern logic are Skolem, Goedel, Tarski, and Church. And Goedel did indeed prove that there must exist mathematical truths that cannot be proved true using the axioms of PM, or any other finite set of axioms.<br />But this is still one of the greatest works of mathematics and philosophy of all time. The long prose introduction is a philosophical masterpiece. The collaboration between Russell and Whitehead may be the greatest scientific collaboration in British history. Whitehead, who was trained as a mathematician, went on to become one of the shrewder philosophers of the 20th century, and supervised Quine's PhD thesis. PM's treatment of the algebra of relations (a brilliant generalisation of Boolean algebra that<BR>has not received the study it deserves) is perhaps the most thorough ever. <br />Mathematical logic is indeed the abstract structure that underlies the digital electronics revolution. And PM is still perhaps the greatest work of math logic ever penned.	2002-10-19
US	44540940	RLI4M5E38NZK	3884050532	208346653	Metaphysical Foundations: Mereology and Metalogic (Analytica)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A regrettably unsung hero of analytical philosophy	Beautifully written by one of the unsung heroes of 20th century analytical philosophy. Martin (1916-85) is underrated relative to Quine and Carnap. Martin had interesting mathematical ideas. He believed in taking the ordered pair as primitive, and in the Polish alternative to set theory known as mereology. He thought there were vast philosophical riches in the combinatory logic of Haskell Curry, and I agree.	2002-10-11
US	44540940	R29811NG2UX41L	0387962174	752221755	Mathematics Form and Function	Books	5	42	42	N	N	A broad overview, by a 20th century math giant	Born 1909, MacLane is one of the great living mathematicians, by virtue of having been the coinventor and chief propagator of category theory. Hence this is an overview of contemporary mathematics, at about the level of a fully competent BA graduate, by someone fully qualified to talk about math. Important points. (1) MacLane is an expert on algebra and gives many examples of the unifying power of abstract algebra. (2) The book includes passages that amount to a gentle introduction to the philosophy of mathematics. MacLane takes exception to what philosophers have written about math, in part because they don't know enough math. (3) This book is also a good introduction to MacLane's radical claim that set theory is an inadequate foundation for math, and that the category theory he coinvented is better for this purpose. (4) Includes many fascinating &quot;road maps&quot; or &quot;flow charts&quot; of the intricate connections among the many branches and topics of mathematics.<BR>Slight disappointment: MacLane does not do justice to the lattice theory his frequent coauthor, Garret Birkhoff, did so much to advance.	2002-01-24
US	44540940	R3QWLD9VC0UMLC	0198500483	919016935	Mathematical Logic : A course with exercises -- Part I -- Propositional Calculus, Boolean Algebras, Predicate Calculus, Completeness Theorems	Books	4	30	33	N	N	OK but Hard	You'll find this very hard unless you are a competent math major at one of the better universities. Similar to Elliot Mendelson's text, but not quite as good. Good chapter on Boolean algebra as a<br />piece of pure math; Halmos and Givant is gentler, though.<br />Interesting topic covered: the resolution so dear to the AI crowd. Unlike most mathematicians, Cori and Lascar have time for<br />the way computer scientists think. At the same time, this book does not cover tableau methods (see Smullyan), natural deduction, Genzen's ideas, and so on. For pure logic at the advanced undergrad level, you're better off with Bostock.<br />Haven't seen Part II, so cannot comment on the treatment of set theory. This is something Mendelson and Machover already do well.	2001-12-02
US	44540940	RRXQNUETW99TO	9027707197	130748167	The Logico-algebraic approach to quantum mechanics (The University of Western Ontario series in philosophy of science ; v. 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A 1970s anthology that is still ahead of our time	THis two volume collection is now a quarter century old. But it still embodies the physics of the future, a physics that will fuse with universal algebra, lattice theory, and logic, as part of a grand unification of all (true) knowledge. These ideas began in the 1930s with papers by von Neumann (the greatest mathematician of the last century) and Garrett Birkhoff (the man who almost single handedly created lattice theory). To see what this agenda can yield, see the recent work by Anton Zeilinger in Vienna.	2001-11-02
US	44540940	R1FHAQS1ONN4DB	0963989901	864209130	Laws of Form	Books	5	49	52	N	N	An outstanding intro to logic without Quantifiers	This book is indeed not much more than a very elegant re-exposition of Boolean algebra and the propositional calculus.<BR>Furthermore, the essence of Brown's mathematical innovations were discovered by C S Peirce as early as 1885 (but published only after LoF was published). Nevertheless, LoF is no mean feat.<BR>It radically simplifies sentential logic, switching circuit calculations, syllogisms. I use this book to solve logic problems arising in the computer programs I write.<br />Outside of electrical engineering, only a few mathematicians and logicians work with logic and Boolean algebra, which should be as commonly known as calculus and linear algebra.<br />I purchased this book in 1974, and have read many times since. EMail me at econ159@it.canterbury.ac.nz if you want a copy of my academic paper explaining the value of Spencer Brown's achievement.	2001-10-09
US	44540940	R2AV8T895OZ1Q0	0521474930	574569883	Set Theory, Logic and their Limitations	Books	5	39	40	N	N	An excellent introduction to mathematical logic	This is an outstanding undergraduate treatment of the following topics at the core of modern mathematics: set theory, equivalence and ordering relations, cardinals, ordinals, sentential and quantifier logic, and just enough recursion theory to derive the paradoxical undecidability theorems.    The treatment is thoroughly contemporary (eg, Hintikka sets) but not too difficult, because this text emerged out of the philosophy rather than the mathematics classroom. The text is written in the mathematical tradition, consisting of many terse numbered subsections, each containing a definition, theorem, remark, or problem. The organisation of the subject, and the index, are excellent. The author chooses an unusual pedagogic strategy: to present a bit of axiomatic set theory BEFORE the chapters on logic and metamathematics. A benefit of this choice is that the metalanguage employed to exposit these topics can draw freely on elementary set theoretic concepts. This strategy is, of course, a consequence of the triumph of model theory over proof theory.    Except for the omission of Boolean algebra, this is the finest contemporary treatment I know of the propositional calculus.    The book ends with a concise and elegant treatment of the classic limitative results inherent in any formalization of arithmetic. Tarski indefinability is proved quite early on, right after the proof of the diagonal lemma and before the axiomatic systems of arithmetic are set out in order of increasing strength, RR=>Q=>P. The famous theorem of Matyasevich (recursively enumerable relations are diophantine) is stated without proof, then invoked to make stronger and simpler the proof of Godelian incompleteness.    This book is filled with the sort of shrewd philosophical asides too seldom included in textbooks, and that when spoken are the hallmark of a good experienced teacher.	2001-09-19
US	44540940	RYMJV65OGJZGL	0198751427	181776521	Intermediate Logic	Books	5	8	11	N	N	An excellent upper-level undergrad treatment	This is an outstanding technical text. The author is a clear and engaging writer, with evident deep experience teaching university logic. While he does not overuse notation, this is still a fairly mathematical book (eg, repeated use is made of proof by induction). While the author tries hard, many of the definitions and semantic distinctions made in logic remain subtle (eg, &quot;valid under all interpretations&quot;, &quot;semantic versus syntactical turnstyles&quot;).  Perhaps the only drawback of this text is that the author spends no time on multi-valued or intuitionistic logics. That's not a criticism, in my view.<br />Logic, by which I mean the mathematics of truth functors and quantifiers, is a tool that ought to be better known and more widely used. Maybe Bostock will move us toward that goal.	2001-09-10
US	44540940	R1N1PGQJCOVG1F	0716730502	548925066	Proof, Logic, and Conjecture: The Mathematician's Toolbox	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I Wish this had been out when I was a student!	This is the most USEFUL undergrad math text I have ever seen.<BR>It covers the essentials of modern mathematics: proofs, logic, sets, number systems. I especially value the discussion of logic, sets, proof strategies, and relations.<br />I would have preferred more discussion of boolean algebra and lattices, but that is an idiosyncrasy of mine. I also wish that it would include the killer explanation of bi-in-sur-jection, and of into/onto maps that I have sought for decades. (The best of the extant lot is in Kolmogorov &amp; Fomin). This description should also include iso-mono-anti-tone.<br />I am not competent to judge the freedom from mathematical error.<BR>But the exposition never seems muddled to me, and is nearly always clearer than other texts, which often grandstand when discussing deep math.	2001-09-10
US	44540940	R3VD68QBPVB8ER	0486638294	583445801	Set Theory and Logic (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	Unusually clear treatment of very abstract matters.	This book is a great bargain: intuitive and axiomatic set theory, foundations of number systems, first order logic and its completeness and undecidability, the basics of abstract algebra, especially Boolean algebra (through the Stone theorem), elementary group theory, and Godelian incompletability. All in one inexpensive paperback. Excellent coverage of the three way crossroads where logic, modern algebra, and metamathematics intersect. Often the first reference I consult on basic logic.    Even though I am not a mathematician, I can understand, with effort, most of what the author is trying to say.	2001-07-30
US	44540940	R3BTWZT2WVIS0Y	0192821474	698097005	The Anthropic Cosmological Principle (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	62	67	N	N	This Book Should be Famous but Isn't.	This book is a revolutionary treatise on cosmology and the fate of the human species. It is frankly the most breathtaking book I have ever read, more exhilarating than Penrose's \\"Road to Reality\\" or than related efforts by Victor Stengers, John Barrow writing alone, Lee Smolin, or Eric Chaisson. I agree with the reviewer who asserts that this book's breadth of erudition is astounding. While quite technical in parts, other parts are definitely within the grasp of anyone who learned high school science well and is comfortable with algebra. There is much here beyond physics: chemistry, earth science, and biology. The book also contains a superb and lengthy discussion of many fascinating topics in the history and philosophy of science. This discussion remains valuable regardless of the future evolution of our understanding of cosmology. This is the book John Wheeler would have liked to have written but did not.<br /><br />Among the suprising topics included in this book are:<br />*A detailed discussion of the large number coincidences of Eddington and Dirac;<br />*An extensive discussion of the handful of dimensionless constants that ground modern physics: fine structure (137), ratio of the rest masses of the proton to that of the electron (1836), the coupling constant for gravitation (at most 10^-39), etc;<br />*An anthropic defense of the Many Worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics against the Copenhagen interpretation;<br />*The most extensive discussion I know of why why our universe has 4 dimensions, 3 of space and 1 of time;<br />*A chapter on biochemistry and the biosphere. In it, Barrow and Tipler agree that because photosynthesis has very gradually increased the fraction of the atmosphere made of oxygen, that fraction will, within a few hundred million years, reach a level such that vegetation will ignite spontaneously, making continued life on earth impossible;<br />*A chapter on why we are probably the only intelligent species in the Milky Way (Simon Conway Morris's \\"Life's Solution\\" concurs), and why it is our fate to colonise our home galaxy.<br /><br />The above and more should have led to a cover story in Time or Newsweek. It did not, even though at the time of first publication, Tipler was nowhere near as controversial as he since became.<br /><br />Barrow and Tipler incline to the Big Crunch. If Perlmutter et al are correct, so that it is the case that the expansion of the universe is accelerating and that there is not enough mass in the universe to reverse the process, then the Big Crunch is in trouble. Also, the other great visionary among modern physicists, Freeman Dyson, has been known to disagree with Tipler.<br /><br />This book was written 20 years ago and has its share of typos. Would the authors please give us a thoroughly revised second edition?oncurs), and why it is our fate to colonise our home galaxy.    The above and more should have led to a cover story in Time or Newsweek. It did not, even though at the time of first publication, Tipler was nowhere near as controversial as he since became.    Barrow and Tipler incline to the Big Crunch. If Perlmutter et al are correct, so that it is the case that the expansion of the universe is accelerating and that there is not enough mass in the universe to reverse the process, then the Big Crunch is in trouble. Also, the other great visionary among modern physicists, Freeman Dyson, has been known to disagree with Tipler.    This book was written 20 years ago and has its share of typos. Would the authors please give us a thoroughly revised second edition?	2001-05-18
US	44540940	RW480T9IVAPYP	0691023778	435693557	Charles Babbage: Pioneer of the Computer	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Computer was Invented well before Reticulated Electricit	In the early 19th century, a moderately well-off and very well educated Englishman dreams up an elaborate calculating machine for doing log and trig tables. When he begins this project, the railroad and the telegraph do not yet exist. The machine tools and manufacturing methods of the day are not up to the task, so the Englishman pushes out the envelope. He more or less succeeds in building his machine, but the British government is not interested.    The inventor goes back to the drawing board, and dreams up a much more elaborate machine, still all mechanical and steam driven, that essentially embodies all the abstractions of a von Neumann machine. Data and instructions are fed to it via punched cards. His collaborator for a number of years, and the author of the best description of the machine and what it can do, is Byron's daughter. The inventor is well known to all intellectual Britons of his day, including Charles Dickens. The inventor even realises that Boolean algebra may prove important for the sort of machine he is struggling to build. The Italian government is fascinated. But the British government again cannot be bothered, and thus refuses to fund the first computer. And so all that we have are hundreds of detailed blueprints.    The above, and more, is a true story, told in this remarkable book. After this book was printed, IBM paid to have Babbage's machine built by a Swedish team. It works as Babbage expected it to, and is exhibited in the IBM museum in Armonk NY.	2001-05-12
