US	44581654	R5BNPXOXX1PA3	0679751823	122238069	Answered Prayers	Books	4	63	68	N	N	Trashy, but great fun	This dazzlingly scandalous unfinished novel could only have come from the pen of Truman Capote.  He pokes fun at world famous celebrities, some of whom P.B. Jones, an aspiring writer of great promise, mixes it up with.  In his adventures, Jones also falls under the influence of con men, drug and alcohol abusers and those of ill and near ill repute. <br /> <br />Forced to support himself financially, P.B. Jones must temporarily resort to hustling and other slightly more socially acceptable activities.  Jones learns about a low-life, but physically attractive, young woman who marries, then allegedly murders, a naive son of a millionaire, only to get away with the crime because his parents do not want to blacken their name.  Jones, himself, is requested to get involved in kidnapping and homicide by a woman who had married into a monied family.  One woman, who fancies herself an animal lover, gains some noteriety by shooting a man who kills a white leopard. <br /> <br />Mr. Capote supposedly lost the friendships of a number of prominent people whom he so casually reveals conversations that were never meant to be displayed on the printed page.  While some may deplore Mr. Capote's disloyalty to these individuals, it makes for some dishy fun reading about their ex-husbands, their scandalous love affairs, and other such dirty laundry, including badly defiled bed sheets.  Such is the down side of fame. <br /> <br />_Answered Prayers_ is oftentimes very funny (the portion starring Dorothy Parker and Tallulah Bankhead is a scream) and sometimes very, very naughty.  This book occasionally borders on the pornographic.  I doubt very much that if Mr. Capote had completed his supposed magnum opus that the critics would have considered it great art.  There is nothing in these pages that suggests any such potential.  But as fly on the wall eaves dropping and \\"fictonalized\\" reportage (as what one might read in The Star or in Cindy Adams's columns) it is never boring.	2005-09-06
US	44581654	R1JB848SF92ZLB	038533334X	575060326	Charming Billy	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Sometimes love is not enough	Billy Lynch was a good man, a sensitive man, a deeply romantic man, who would always carry in his pocket a volume of Yates's poetry, from which he would often quote.  Billy's cousin, Dennis, believing he was acting in Billy's best interests, tells him a lie about a young woman, whom they both met on Long Island, and with whom Billy fell in love and planned to marry.  After she had returned to Ireland, Dennis tells Billy that she had gotten sick and died of pneumonia rather than the truth that she had married a man back in Ireland and absconded with the money Billy had sent her to emigrate back to America.  Completely shattered, Billy sinks into alcoholism and eventually, dies. <br /> <br />Ms. McDermott has written a devastating book about an individual's loss of faith in God and his loving family's efforts to pull Billy out of his depression and self-destructive behavior.  Dealing with several generations of the Lynch family, one of the book's major themes is death and the questioning of whether the deep belief in the redemptive powers of Christ and Catholicism is enough to sustain one.  In one of Billy's drunken, 3 a.m. telephone calls to Dennis, Billy says, \\"Our lord spilling His every drop of blood on the cross to show us death is terrible...and all the while we're telling ourselves that it's not so bad, after all.  You get over it.  Life is lovely despite the fact of a young woman dying, her children all unborn...\\" <br /> <br />Ms. McDermott has a deep understanding of human psychology and the astounding ability of families to pull together and heal themselves after the death of one of its beloved members.  Billy's family, very much in touch with its deep New York, Irish-Catholic roots, finds strength in familial love that while not often openly expressed is, nevertheless, quite implicit.  Without judging anyone too harshly, a lie told in the name of filial love is meant to protect, not to hurt.  Oh, how familiar this must sound to all of us!   <br /> <br />Ms.McDermott, very much in touch with her own Irish background, has written a richly complex, heart breaking tragedy worthy of its National Book Award.	2005-09-01
US	44581654	R1BBQHXHEE3CUY	0156155516	689518606	Cat and Mouse	Books	3	2	6	N	N	School yard hero	Joachim Mahlke could easily fall under the \\"Readers Digest\\" category of \\"the most unforgettable person I have ever met.\\"  Endowed with a gigantic Adam's Apple (akin to a huge mouse) as well as another unmentionable part, he covers up his throat with a hanging screw driver and with other items that he retrieves from swimming near a sunken barge.  Mahlke becomes an expert swimmer and obtains the sobriquet \\"the Great Mahlke\\" during his school days.  He reinforces this image by later winning the Iron Cross, being instrumental in sinking a number of allied ships during World War II.  Yet, he cannot live down an act of thievery perpetrated during his youth and is prevented by his old school principal from speaking at an assembly planned in his honor.    _Cat and Mouse_ is a pleasant enough read about this ordinary extraordinary young man.  The book has its moments and Mahlke is somewhat likeable and unquestionably brave.  However, I could not help but feel that Gunter Grass's under 200 page allegory is the perfect length for discussing a character who was not engaging enough to sustain my interest in him for very much longer.	2005-08-24
US	44581654	R3Q3F15A5J7CGH	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Vatican City is the star player in this book	In the beginning there was a complete void--utter nothingness.  Then, God created the heaven and the earth and rested on the seventh day.  Or--trillions of molecules slowly came together, and in one \\"big bang\\" there was a super explosion;  after billions of years of cooling down, the universe as we know it was formed.    _Angels & Demons_ concerns the eternal battle between those who are certain that anything as glorious as the earth and the solar system could only have been created by a Supreme Being versus those supposedly enlightened folk, scientists, for example, who eschew any religious theories surrounding the creation of the universe.    The book primarily asks what if a bridge could be built between the scientists and the religionists.  What if both agreed there was this utter nothingness in the beginning and that some higher power, God, intervened and allowed matter and anti-matter to combine to create the universe.  The gap between science and religion would disappear.  Spiritual leaders and men and women of technology would work together for the greater good of mankind.    These were the theories of physicist Leonardo Vetra, the inventor of \\"anti-matter,\\" which had the potential for good or for massive destruction.  Tragically, as he was about to share his secret with the Pope and the world, the man of science was mysteriously and gruesomely murdered, and the man of God supposedly died in his sleep of a stroke.  To compound the tragedy, a number of kidnappings also ensue in the Vatican.  Robert Langdon, an American professor of symbology, is called in to help save the Vatican from certain destruction, supposedly by an ancient, long-vanished, anti-church cult of intellectuals.    This spectacularly riveting novel is set in the Vatican during a conclave of cardinals who will choose the next Pope.  We are taken through a number of splendid works of Vatican architecture--cathedrals, churches, fountains, statues, etc.--by the great Bernini during Langdon's quest.  There are plenty of breathless action sequences in this book, and one particular rescue from the jaws of death that made me shake my head in disbelief.  In fact, we are too often called upon to suspend disbelief in the too facile methods of Langdon's clue-solving.  Nevertheless, _Angels & Demons_ is a definite page turner, and its incendiary, sacrificial conclusion, is, in itself, something definitely not to be missed.	2005-08-17
US	44581654	R1UIELGLBE1VM9	0679727264	300296441	The Real Life of Sebastian Knight	Books	5	21	22	N	N	My Brother, Myself	This exquisitely written novel fills one with despair.  It is a  sadness that was perhaps felt by many after such rare and creative geniuses as Mozart, Van Gogh, Shubert, and Gershwin all died too young after such short careers.  Some of these men, like Sebastian Knight, died in relative obscurity.  Sebastian's half-brother, the narrator of this novel, enters upon a journey to uncover the last months of Sebastian's life, to discover his secret, and perhaps to find out about the shadowy woman who was supposedly his last lover.      Sebastian's handful of books were admired by some of the critics, who found them scholarly and poetic, and his last novel was judged a masterpiece.  Most of Sebastian's books were little read by a public who were probably more inclined to read the popular potboilers of the day.  The half-brother, while loving and admiring Sebastian, barely knew him himself, only knowing that Sebastian lead a lonely, sad existence, and that he suffered from a congenital heart condition.  What lends much of the novel its sadness is the palpable desperation of the narrator's quest. While his efforts in uncovering his brother's secret may have been less than successful, he did learn much about what Nabokov calls our common shared humanity with the souls of others.  This is a beautifully written and heartfelt narrative that should be read by those who appreciate great literature.	2005-08-01
US	44581654	R3OXENC6KU7VWS	0684825538	11530247	Across The River And Into The Trees	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hemingway's intergenerational love story	Set in Venice at the end of World War II, Hemingway tells a romantic and touching story of the love affair between a gruff 50 year old American colonel and Renata, a young and very pretty Italian contessa.  Loss is a recurring theme--the death of many of the Colonel's subordinates in combat, the break-up of his earlier marriage to a career woman, and the severe injury to one of the Colonel's hands from which he suffers constant pain.  The Colonel may also be dying and his time left with his young lover may be very short.<br /><br />What gives the novel so much poignancy and resonance is the great devotion Renata and the Colonel have for one another.  Renata seeks to comfort the Colonel and implores him to relate to her the worst of his combat experiences so that he may relieve some of his bitterness.  The Colonel lovingly calls Renata, \\"daughter.\\"<br /><br />Hemingway tells this tale in the deceptively simple, direct, and matter of fact style for which he is justly celebrated.  I could have done without the duck hunting sequences and some of the Colonel's more obvious macho behavior, but Hemingway, being Hemingway, understandably could not.<br /><br />This is a lovely and sad story, filled with the yearnings of its two lead characters.	2005-07-22
US	44581654	R2X4NWRXOKOM0	0312253990	8150654	Lost in the Cosmos: The Last Self-Help Book	Books	5	19	19	N	N	All about you and me, and he and she, and everyone else	I have just finished reading _Lost in the Cosmos_ and it is not too early to say that I shall never be able to get it entirely out of my mind. Certainly not a history book in the sense that while it touches somewhat upon past civilizations, certain societies, or so-called great men, it does not do so in any great detail. It is, instead, the history of peoples'    relationships with one another, and the ramifications of choices that their \\"selves\\" make in various situations of their day-to-day lives. Walker Percy delves into the symbols, verbal and otherwise, that human kind uses (called \\"semiotics\\") as tools for relating with one another, whether in peace or war, or all the variations thereof.     Everyone is self-centered and selfish to a certain extent, and that is not necessarily a bad thing.  Human nature is what it is; everyone brings into play in his decision-making his or her psychology (not ignoring the psycho-sexual), his current emotional state, as well as religious, economic, and ethno-cultural background.  That someone may be a scientist, an artist, a writer, a construction worker, or a housewife is always key to one's decisions.      Walker Percy, presenting various possible life scenarios, poses a series of questions to the reader and, depending on who you are and based on the various human factors previously cited, the reader is to ponder, then to check-off one or more choices he would make.  Herein comes the self-help premise of the book: what we do tell us not only who we are as individuals but the type of people we can choose to be, for better or worse, for ourselves as well as for others.    This magnificient book, often quite humorous (the Phil Donohue Show section is flat out hilarious), and quite often dead serious, mixes scientific method with science fiction expertly and extraordinarily enjoyably.  _Lost in the Cosmos_ is the ultimate reality show.  Read it and think!	2005-07-17
US	44581654	R3GWKYS5JAXB20	0679767878	187559849	The Man Without Qualities Vol. 1: A Sort of Introduction and Pseudo Reality Prevails	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Europe prior to the Great War	Set in 1913 in a country near Austria-Hungary in the period just prior to World War I, this massive, two volume novel, features Ulrich, the supposed \\"man without qualities,\\"  who take 1 year off just to observe people who help make up his environment.  Forming the backdrop of the novel are preparations for the Parallel Campaign, which will celebrate the 75th Anniversary of Franz Joseph's assention to the Austrian throne.  The sponsors of this event, who hope to spotlight the achievements of Austria and reach some form of peace and understanding with the disperate groups that make up the Austria-Hungary Empire, never seem to agree how best to get the festivities off square one. The Germans feel shunted aside and make their extreme dissatisfactions known to everyone.  One of the major characters of the novel is a wealthy German businessman who inspires love and admiration from some of the female characters and jealousy, mistrust and contempt from Ulrich and some of the other male characters.    \\"The Man Without Qualities\\" works best as a work showing Europe in a transitional period prior to the fall of the various kingdoms and empires of Europe and just before the rise of Naziism.  Musil's characters go into great detail discussing the many political, economic and social philosphies swirling around Europe at that time and these often reflect the relationships of the various and motley individuals that make up the novel. These include Ulrich's cousin, Diotima, who loves to give parties for the prominent in society, her husband who is a petty government official who is severely lacking in imagination, Ulrich's musically gifted married friends, Clarisse, a nervous and somewhat hysterical woman, and Walter, a weakling who is very jealous of Ulrich. While oftentimes the clash of ideas and philosophies can make an incredibly  engrossing read, the novel can often bogs down in them and become awfully tiresome.	2005-07-10
US	44581654	RFDWEHJC0ER32	044920023X	308427158	Magician of Lublin	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Jewish Siddhartha	Like Siddhartha, Yasha has led a life of dissipation.  In Yasha's case his transgressions consisted of womanizing, excessive alcohol consumption, keeping friends with shady characters, and, finally, burglary and attempted thievery.  Suffering a serious injury, the suicide of one of his paramours, and possible imprisonment, Yasha relinquishes his burgeoning career as a magician and tight rope walker in favor of doing deep religious penance.  Also, like Siddhartha, Yasha becomes an ascetic.  Recognizing himself as a sinner who could easily slip back again to his former ways, Yasha shuts himself off from the world in a most unusual way.  Not through any choice of his own, Yasha becomes, \\"a holy man\\" with \\"Jewish men and women (waiting) at (his) window for (his) blessing.\\"    Isaac Bashevis Singer has written a thought-provoking novel of tremendous intensity in a style containing deceptively simple language.  Singer's characters are full of human frailties and vulnerability.  Yasha, in particular, is always questioning the morality of his intended acts and their possible consequences on others.  This is especially so after he escapes into a synagogue (Yasha is a fallen away Jew) and achieves an epiphany of sorts.  Yasha learns that he is not evil, after all, but simply human   and, in many ways worthy of love and admiration.	2005-04-12
US	44581654	R34PNG6F9TJHVJ	0375702032	500118251	Plays Well with Others	Books	3	3	3	N	N	AIDS as a metaphor for the 1980's	What works best about Allan Gurganus's La Boheme-like book about the AIDS crisis during the 1980's is its description of the friendship of three persons newly transplanted to New York.  The narrator, Hartley Mims, a nascent writer from North Carolina, also becomes a caregiver to Robert Gustafson, originally from Iowa, who is the most beautiful man ever to grace the streets of Greenwich Village.  Robert is also an extremely gifted composer. One of my favorite parts of the book is its presentation of the New York debut of Robert's unfinished opus, \\"Titanic,\\"  with Aaron Copeland serving as the conductor.  A friend to both Hartley and to Robert, is Angela \\"Alabama\\" Byrnes, a very Janis Joplin-ish painter, who does everything in life in a big, brassy way.    Angela, Robert, and Hartley form a bond and a love for one another that goes beyond simple friendship.  Besides supporting one another in their struggles to find fame and fortune in their newly adopted art world, they become soul mates.  One scene in the book has them cuddling together naked, in Robert's bed, which I can only describe as poignant and, in the context of it, also rather heartbreaking.    Written in an episodic way, rather than in a smooth narrative, Gurganus does not always succeed in maintaining the necessary tension to move the story along.  His writing style often blunts the impact of its tragic theme and my feelings for the characters.  Robert and Angie appear as character types rather than as flesh and blood people.  I wish I could have cared for them more.  I was concerned for their plights, but found it impossible to really love them. Probably at least partially autobiographical, I got to know Hartley much better than Robert and Angie, but Hartley spends an inordinate amount of time whining about how his father misunderstood and maltreated him.  Gurganus's writing style was occasionally torturous and overly metaphorical.  An obvious example is Robert's \\"Titanic Symphony,\\" where the author compares the hubris and fate of many of those who partook in the sexual revolution of the 1970's with those who built and marketed the infamous ship as unsinkable and indestructible.  A story in the novel's appendix, written by Hartley, about newly arrived angels in heaven has a certain amount of charm and humor, but is way over the top in its sentimentality.    _Plays Well with Others_ is a good, and often sweet book that I can recommend, if not necessarily as whole-heartedly as I would have hoped.	2005-04-03
US	44581654	R1L59WMZVSI30S	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Kerouac's homage to his friend Neal Cassady	_On the Road_ is Jack Kerouac's gritty and passionately written paean to his and Neal Cassady's unique friendship.  Dean Moriarty (a/k/a Neal Cassady) did not merely live life, he joyfully soaked up all the excitement that it had to offer--his love of jazz and jazz musicians, drinking, smoking marijuana, baseball, storytelling, and his serial relationships with women.  In his restless migrations across the continent, often enduring poverty and near starvation along the way, in addition to his buddy Sal Paradise (a/k/a Jack Kerouac), Dean oftentimes took along a gaggle of women-friends, wives and ex-wives, hitchhikers, and whomever happened to appear along the way.  Whether it meant stealing a series of automobiles for the fun of it, driving rented cars into water sodden ditches at 90 miles an hour, and nearly causing the death of everyone, including himself, no one involved could possibly say afterward that he did not have the most unforgettable time of his life.  Everyone seemed to agree that Dean was crazy, but it was his free spirit and child-like zest for life that was loved about him, even those who shook their heads in utter exasperation.  Yet, as Sal slowly admits, there was a deep well of sadness and yearning in Dean, who spends a good part of the book searching for his errant father, Old Dean Moriarty, who had often been too irresponsible to provide much of a life for the young Dean.  Dean, himself, spent a large part of his childhood in reform schools and, later, in various jails.  In acknowledgement of his enduring friendship with Sal, Dean pays Sal the greatest homage possible when he tells Sal that he travelled 3000 miles across the country just to see him.  I love Dean Moriarty (admittedly, a good part of me simply admires this carefree being) and the sublime literary classic in which he appears.	2005-03-15
US	44581654	R2YKI2EBJ1180R	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	37	65	N	N	A Tale of the Grail	Fasten your seatbelts.  This book is one heck of a ride.  _The Da Vinci Code_ is more than a journey in search of the Holy Grail and far more than your typical murder mystery/who-dun-it.  It concerns the history of the Priory of the Scion, an extraordinary brotherhood formed in the middle ages and perpetuated to the current day to protect the mystique and secrecy of the Holy Grail.  The Church is terrified that the Grand Master and his colleagues know of the existence of ancient documents which if revealed could shake the church down to its very foundations.  One past Grand Master of the Priory of Scion was Leonardo Da Vinci, whose \\"Last Supper,\\"  \\"Mona Lisa,\\" and other masterpieces contain clues pertaining to the relationship of Jesus and the much slandered Mary Magdelaine, and how certain powerful and reactionary forces have a vested interest in suppressing the importance and meaning of their bond.  The book explains the dual meaning of the term \\"Sangreal\\": San Greal or Holy Grail vs. Sang Real or bloodline.<br /><br />First and foremost a crime mystery, _The Da Vinci Code_ begins with the murder of the curator of the Louvre.  The victim is the current Grand Master of the Priory of Scion and grandfather of Sophie Neveu, who together with Robert Langdon, a Harvard professor of symbology, endeavor to locate the Grail and to understand better its deeper meaning, or what the book refers to as the attempt to recapture \\"the Sacred Feminine\\" that was eradicated by power hungry male religious leaders (possibly starting with Jesus disciple, Peter).  The book is packed with puzzles, cryptograms and poetry containing clues as to the whereabouts of the Grail.  Conspirators--and their identities shocked and surprised me--ensure that those who do not serve their purposes are promptly disposed of.  _The Da Vinci Code_ presents great works of art and structures of historic architectural splendor as vital \\"characters\\" in a riveting thriller that I found impossible to put down.	2005-03-04
US	44581654	RSHHB7UMGDDJ	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very, very dark	Nicholas Rubashov is a Communist Party official living under the Stalinist regime.  Rubashov may be considered an enlightened individual--he keeps a diary of philosophical musings of a more egalitarian Soviet Union.  In his diary and in his conversations, Rubashov criticizes the current (1930's) tyrannical system of ill-humored, uniformly thinking, Neanderthals.  Rubashov compares them to the more idealistic men who were the founding fathers of the Revolution.  Rubashov is eventually arrested for counter-revolutionary activities and for an alleged conspiracy against the No. 1 Party Leader.  Under the Stalinist system it was not unusual for friends and colleagues to act as witnesses against one another.  Rubashov, himself, had previously testified against his beloved secretary to save his skin.    _Darkness at Noon_ is about the forces of light and reform against the forces of darkness, those who would eliminate anyone who dares even mildly to criticize the Soviet dictatorship and enforced homogeneity.  Under Stalin, just thinking independently or being involved in a minor industrial accident were punishable by death.  Occasionally a little too polemical for my taste, _Darkness at Noon_ is, nevertheless, extremely intense and disturbing, especially in its images of Rubashov being interrogated under conditions of intense lighting and severe sleep deprivation.  Rubashov, ever the humanist, dreamt of a Russia that \\"will teach that the tenet is wrong which says a man is the quotient of one million divided by one million.\\"	2005-02-09
US	44581654	R3KY7SR484P2UB	0679736530	961716822	The Hamlet	Books	3	6	15	N	N	Strictly southern fried and a little half baked	This book's title refers to Frenchmen's Bend, a section just outside Jefferson, Mississippi.  The chief citizen of the Bend is Will Varner, who's daughter, Eula, eventually marries Flem Snopes, whose family forms an important, if shadowy, presence in the town.  Flem, himself, whom Varner hires to clerk in his store, comes to Frenchmen's Bend with a somewhat shady reputation preceding him.    _The Hamlet_ has a certain amount of pastoral charm and beauty, owing largely to Faulkner's expert hand in describing the seasonal/environmental changes of the land of his southern roots.  Faulkner's writing style is a mixed blessing, being composed of lengthy run-on and circuitously written sentences.  I also often had difficulty identifying to which of his characters Faulkner was referring.  Faulkener kept saying \\"he\\" rather than give the man's name, particularly frustrating in an otherwise mysteriously harrowing section of the book where several characters were attempting to locate the body of one of their \\"murdered\\" denizens.    The book presents its plot--if you can call it that--as a series of incidents rather than a seamlessly narrated novel, with a beginning,  middle, climax and denoument.  Faulkner's frequent verbal diversions and lack of continuity often cause his stories to poop out and fall flat.  On the other hand, Faulkner's use of picaresque characters and colorful set pieces is nearly flawless and very often comical, quite apparent in  sequences concerning a wandering, unmilked cow and during a horse auction in which many of them become wild and run away.    _The Hamlet_ does not so much end, a rather weak ending at that, but very cautiously paves the way for a sequel.	2005-01-21
US	44581654	R2Z27R2WJ5C7XO	0385333781	900157828	Player Piano: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Gleefully chaotic	_Player Piano_ depicts a dystopian American society in which machinery runs everything.  These instruments were not designed to assist mankind, but quite the opposite: mankind exists as servants of these gigantic leviathans.  Human initiative has been permanently stiffled.  Managers and engineers exist as mere handmaids to these machines.  Anyone who dares speak up may be accused of sabotage or worse.  Doctor Paul Proteus, the brilliant manager of Ilium works in New York State inadvertently becomes, through the efforts of others, the pawn in a nascent revolt against this mechanized dictatorship.  What results is utter chaos--but what fun! <br /> <br />Kurt Vonnegut's satiric and disturbing novel is a cross between _1984_, _Brave New World_, _Oedipus Rex_, and Custer's Last Stand.  The novel even includes a group of Indians, a Ghost Dance Society, as well as a bemused Shah and his befuddled interpreter as observers of the resulting confusion.  Revolution has never been as enjoyable nor as frolicsome. <br /> <br />The theme of man being replaced by machines is an old one and perhaps a touch cliched, but in our age of computer domination and the sinister out-sourcing of American jobs to foreign companies, Vonnegut's apocalyptic novel is as fresh, relevant, and aptly cynical today as it was in 1952, the year _Player Piano_ was published.	2004-12-28
US	44581654	R2X928KNK4JUM8	0375727345	498826779	House of Sand and Fog (Oprah's Book Club)  (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	When bad things happen to basically good people	This is a magnificent book, with characters so richly developed that you cannot help but empathize with them despite each having deep personality flaws.  The three main characters seemingly make grevious mistakes and miscalculations out of sheer self-interest, but when their motivations are fleshed out I said to myself, \\"Yes, I understand why he or she has may have made this decision\\" even when their powers of reason were seriously out of whack.     The novel's three major actors all have to deal with loss:  an Iranian colonel with a wife and young son who are forced to leave Iran, under threats of death, when the Shah is deposed; a young woman whose husband leaves her and then loses her family home because of a bureaucratic glitch; the deputy sheriff who first tries to help her, and in the process falls in love with her, then loses his wife and children and more.  Colonel Behrani who once lived in luxury as an officer in the Shah's army, is forced to take a series of menial jobs to feed his family, then supposedly discovers the means to make millions in real estate  speculation.  His hubris and stubborness proves to be his undoing.  The young lady, Kathy Nicolo, who slides back into earlier addictive and other self-destructive behavior over the loss of her family home, and Deputy Sheriff Lester Burdon who commits a series of senseless acts of misconduct while selflessly acting, or so he believes, as Kathy's savior.  All meant well; none saw the tragic consequences of their acts.    Particularly interesting were the false assumptions made by each character about the other based on surface impressions.  For example, Colonel Behrani believes Kathy to be a whore because of his misconceptions about her supposedly loose Americanish behavior (according to Iranian standards), Kathy and Lester see the Colonial and his family wearing expensive clothing and jewelry at a party they give for their newly engaged daughter and mistakenly believe them to be rich, and Lester miscalculates Behrani's current financial and social condition because he notices a photograph of the former posing with the Shah of Iran.     This is a novel that hurts so much because it is so real.	2004-12-10
US	44581654	R2DXKLDF7ALD3W	9997409612	183959771	Virginians	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A saga of two brothers	_The Virginians_, a sequel to William M. Thackeray's _Henry Esmond_, is a fictional history of Henry Esmond's daughter, Madam Esmond of Castlewood estate in Virginia, and her twin sons, George and Henry (a/k/a Harry or Hal) Warrington.  George, born a half hour before his brother Harry could not have been more different from his brother.  George loved books and had a more earnest, serious and introspective disposition than the younger Harry, who loved sports, gambling (especially card playing) and had an out-going and fun loving nature.  George was also a playwright, if not an altogether successful one.  For a long while Harry is believed to be the soul surviving brother and heir to Castlewood, and is treated by everyone as such.  For all their differences, no two brothers ever loved or were as devoted to one another more. <br /> <br />This long and sometimes meandering, but often energetically narrated novel, set both in England and in Virginia, recounts the brothers' relationships with their class-conscious British cousins, particularly Harry's with his cousins Maria, with whom he has dutifully promised to marry, and Will, as irrascible and unpleasant a man as one is likely to meet in a novel.  The saintly Lambert family, who nurse Harry back to health after he falls from a horse become thereafter a very important part of Harry's life. <br /> <br />The French and Indian Wars in North America and the American Revolution form a critical backdrop in the novel and provide some of its most stirring scenes.  George and Harry fight on opposite sides during the Revolution, with George taking the side of the Royalists loyal to King George III and Harry eventually becoming a general, serving alongside George Washington.  Washington is presented up close and in person as never before seen in a novel, first as a young man and potential suitor to the brothers' widowed mother, and later as the mature commander-in-chief of the Continental Army of the new American Republic.  While Madam Esmond is generally an unsympathetic and meddlesome woman, especially regarding potential marriages of her sons to women she finds unsuitable, she is undoubtedly courageous in her protection of Castlewood during the years of the Revolution, even as she maintains a staunch allegiance to the wrong side. <br /> <br />The novel I read is just one volume in a series of out-of-print novels by William Makepeace Thackeray.  It may be difficult to find, but I recommend it highly to fans of the British Victorian novel genre.  Written in the style of English  typical of 18th and 19th century novels, the text is sometime difficult to follow, but I would suggest that the reader stay with it for its pleasures as fiction and for its educational value as an early history of America.	2004-11-23
US	44581654	RFBNW08QQY8EU	0805057919	472292826	The Fool's Progress: An Honest Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Travels with Sollie	Henry Lightcap, the novel's protagonist, begins his journey with his ailing dog, Sollie (short for Solstice), back to his family in West Virginia.  This is an often used theme in novels, where the lead character, weary, beaten down, and sometimes ill and suffering, returns to his roots to seek solace in the bosom of his family.  Such is the case with Lightcap.  Only in _The Fool's Progress_ Edward Abbey moves backwards and forwards in time, and explores Henry's growing up on a West Virginia farm  which years later is gutted by strip-mining and logging.  Henry derives much of his independent spirit from his father, Joe, who was a supporter of the socialist organization, the IWW, also known as the \\"Wobblies.\\"  The idea of working full-time in an office at a 9 to 5 job is anathema to Henry.  He loves the outdoors, nature, and is a genuine champion of environmental preservation.  Henry loves wildlife and resigns from a part-time job at a nature preserve when the manager is forced to bring in livestock or lose their lease.      This is a very funny book, particularly regarding some of Henry's adventures with his hooligan friends who act as enforcers against those who might conceivably attempt to ruin the nature preserve.  Abbey is very descriptive of the surroundings in which Henry often finds himself: the rivers, the mountains, the forests, are all described in detail and with great panoramic beauty.  There are also some very unsettling events in Henry's life, particularly related to his second marriage to his \\"child bride\\" and soul mate, Claire.  Henry Lightcap's character is a richly developed and never less than sympathetic, despite his tendency to drink too much and to \\"shoot himself in the foot\\" far too often.  Henry is a true individualist and is frequently misunderstood by those closest to him, particularly his wives, some of whom would rather stay indoors partaking in quiet activities rather live in a run-down cabin in the great outdoors, in the middle of no where.  I loved Henry Lightcap and this magnificent, touching, and occasionally gut-wrenching book.	2004-09-28
US	44581654	R1DQ489PJ83945	0375760865	450898563	Three Soldiers (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Good story, inexplicable behavior	The three soldiers to whom the title refers are Dan Fuselli, a working class Italian-American from San Francisco, \\"Chris\\" Chrisfield, an Indiana farm-boy, and John Andrews, from New York, the novel's main protagonist.  All three went into the U.S. Army during the first world war and met during basic training. While Fuselli's big dream is to become a corporal and Chris just wants to get to the front to kill German soldiers, Andrews wants to become an accomplished musician and composer.  Andrews is by no means a coward and does not shirk combat, but after the armistice is declared he has great difficulty taking orders from his superiors.  As Andrews tells his French girlfriend, \\"every order shouted at me, every new humiliation before the authorities, was as great an agony to me.\\"  Andrews had managed to get permission from an officer for a School Detachment, which meant that he would be allowed to study music.  He, instead, proceeds in a series of inexplicable misbehaviors to throw it all away.    _Three Soldiers_ is a colorfully written and probably fairly accurate study of various men's reactions to military life and the kind of discipline and regimentation inherent in that type of life.  While many found it difficult to adjust to what they saw as a form of slavery, some of these soldiers chose to desert, believing they could eventually blend in with the civilian population on the European continent.  Finding a French woman to marry seemed an easy solution.  John Andrews was an intelligent, sensitive, well-educated and sophisticated young man.  He even spoke French fluently.  That he so capriciously chose the path that he did made absolutely no sense to me at all in this otherwise gripping and likable novel.	2004-09-07
US	44581654	R17GOQKFOVHV0L	0312263996	164241000	Timbuktu: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A dog's tale unlike any other	The star of _Timbuktu_ is Mr. Bones, a dog unlike any other one is likely to meet in a novel.  In this incredibly heart warming book the narrator invites the reader to hear Mr. Bones's every thought, and to feel his joy, his pain, his sorrow, and his loneliness.  His first master, the late failed poet Willy Gurevitch a/k/a Willy G. Christmas because he enjoyed dressing up as Santa Claus, visits Mr. Bones in his dreams and advises him about surviving in the world without him.  Mr. Bones lived with Willy and his Polish-Jewish immigrant mother in Brooklyn. Willy and Mr. Bones often travelled on the road together, his constant companion throughout their myriad journeys.  After Willy, Mr. Bones briefly lives in the back yard of an 11 year old Chinese boy whose father hates dogs, then in Virginia with a well-to-do family, the wife and young daughter of whom dote on Mr. Bones (they call him Sparky) and tell him their every secret. The husband reluctantly allows Mr. Bones into their lives as a sop to his wife and daughter.    One of the most wondrously fanciful aspects of this novel is Mr. Bones's ability to understand everything that the humans around him say to him, unfortunately lacking the ability to understand their motivations.  Of course, Mr. Bones was unable to communicate his needs back to them, although he often tried. Willy always regretted that he never taught Mr. Bones to speak English or to master the use of the typewriter as some other dog supposedly did.    Sick, tired, and knowing that he was fast approaching the winter of his life, Mr. Bones seeks comfort by imagining being reunited with Willy in Timbuktu, a heaven where both he and his beloved master can hold endless conversations together.  Paul Auster has written a uniquely beautiful, deeply affecting, and ultimately heartbreaking book about man's best friend.	2004-08-21
US	44581654	R1Z9I9AGTM0C8E	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Even better and deeper than the first book	This book continues where _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy_ left off with Zaphod Beeblebrox's announcement that he was hungry and wanted to find the nearest place to eat.  The computer was trying to make Earthling Arthur Dent a cup of tea as close to his specifications as possible.  Unfortunately this process so tied up the computer's thought processes that it could do little else.  Arthur, Ford Prefect, Beeblebrox and Trillian (a woman Earthling I neglected to mention in my review of _Hitchhiker_) and others decide to visit Milliways, a restaurant located in the same exact spot but millions of years into the future.  While the crew is attempting to enjoy a savory repast, the masters of ceremonies of Milliways will be providing for their entertainment pleasure the exact moment the universe will end.  Douglas Adams treats this impending event as akin to a New Year's celebration.  In the interim, our crew discovers very strange but very prophetic goings-on, including thousands of frozen and seemingly dead bodies.  Not only are they are not dead, but they prove later (or is it really more sooner?) to have an extremely important role to play.  Ford Prefect also discovers a most unlikely ruler of the Universe who would rather play with his cat than be concerned with administering governmental policy.  The ruler comes up with the interesting premise that those individuals most wanting power were probably the least competent to lead.  Then there is Arthur's strange attempt to play scrabble with the natives of a mysterious world--on which they crash-land--in order to teach them language.  There are so many witty moments in this wonderfully written and most profound book, nothing less than Ford Prefect's ongoing endeavor to find the question to the answer to the meaning of life.	2004-08-16
US	44581654	R2OZPQPVJOB5KR	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A wild and crazy adventure in outer space	This is a rolicking, rocking, socking science fiction comedy.  I would never have believed that a book of this genre could be so funny.  The book features a severely depressed robot with an inferiority complex, two brilliant lab mice named Benjy and Frankie, a computer that has the ability to find the answer to the meaning of life but will take millions of years to do so (never mind its finding the question) and Zaphod Beeblebrox, the figurehead President of the Galaxy, who only wanted that illustrious title to steal a starship.  The hero, Earthling Arthur Dent, is rescued by researcher Ford Prefect, just before Earth is blown up to make way for the building of an intra-galactic superhighway.  No matter that the myriad forewarnings were placed in a location absolutely no one on Earth ever heard about.  Quite a few cliffhangers (or should I say space hangers) occur in this ultra-whimsical book, enough to make me look forward to plowing through its sequel, _The Restaurant at the End of the Universe._	2004-08-14
US	44581654	R1IHEJ542IWUXV	0684139022	164559312	Bits of Paradise: 21 Uncollected Stories	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Scott and Zelda together again	First the good news: Zelda Fitzgerald was not as bad a writer as I was lead to believe. I prefer to describe her stories as \\"colorful\\" rather than to say that she had a tendency to raid Roget's Thesaurus for flowery adjectives, phrases and overly flamboyant metaphors. The first line in one of her stories, \\"Bitter things dried behind the eyes of Miss Ella like garlic on a string before an open fire,\\" would be considered a bit much by any reasonable critic. Still, \\"Miss Ella,\\" a bitter-sweet love story, is touching and sad.     The primary themes of Zelda's stories, romantic love and women's career aspirations, especially in the movies, were topics probably close to her heart and she wrote about them with much sincerity. \\"Our Own Movie Queen,\\" which she and Scott co-wrote, was my favorite by her. This story about a small town girl chosen by her co-workers to star in a movie made by people in her town is both charming and funny. The bad news is that Zelda's stories, told almost completely in a narrative form with virtually no dialogue, had a tendency to drag badly; most of them are forgettable.     Scott's stories, like Zelda's, also cover the various aspects of human relationships, including love, alcoholism, and the heartbreak often encountered by those seeking film stardom, are all wonderfully and, of course, professionally written. Few twentieth century American authors wrote better and with as much wit about human psychology and foibles than the great F. Scott Fitzgerald. The alcoholic always promising to reform in \\"A New Leaf, and the struggling young movie starlet broken by the Hollywood system in \\"Last Kiss,\\" are among my favorites in this generally very entertainingly written volume of short stories.	2004-08-05
US	44581654	R2IVR4685O2XN6	0679444580	714737202	A House for Mr. Biswas (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Everybody needs a place he can call home	I think that almost everyone can empathize with Mr. Biswas. Born into a poor family of Indian extraction in Trinidad, Mohun Biswas has been put upon right from the start. When he was a youngster Mr. Biswas lost his father through a swimming accident that was blamed on the boy. His mother was self-absorbed, distant and unloving. Mr. Biswas later met a young woman, Shama, with a huge family that never thought that Mr. Biswas would amount to anything. Shama's sisters, most of them either prima donnas, neurotics or both, were constantly criticizing Mr. Biswas for one thing or another. Shama would take her sisters' side over her husband's. Mr. Biswas' brothers-in-law and their sons were little better. To add insult to injury, Mr. Biswas and Shama, due to economic reasons, often found themselves living in extremely close quarters with Shama's family. Just finding breathing room seemed an impossible task. No wonder Mr. Biswas was often irritable, cantankerous, argumentative, and seemingly misanthropic. Mr. Biswas just wanted a house of his own where he could live with his wife in harmony and raise their children in peace.          _A House for Mr. Biswas_ is simply about a man who desparately seeks to find his place in the world, but is frustrated at every turn, including settling on a career. I admired Mr. Biswas and felt that his seemingly difficult personality masked a heroic man of great imagination, resourcefulness, and tenacity. It is ironic that Mr. Biswas, often impoverished himself, worked as a newspaper reporter and then as a government welfare worker, in both capacities getting to know the destitute of Trinidad.          V.S. Naipaul has written a book that is always lively, thought-provoking and never sentimental. Naipaul could have made Mr. Biswas an embittered and hateful person or loaded his book with pathos. He instead created a fighter and like Naipaul, who is himself an exile from his native India, a restless man who yearns to live out his final years ina place he can finally call his own.	2004-07-28
US	44581654	R1STVJZ887JBUW	0374521719	20444963	Play It As It Lays: A Novel	Books	1	11	32	N	N	What a downer	I just hope that most Hollywood film makers and actors are not like the ones represented in this book.  When they are not on the set filming, they are either getting drunk or popping pills, committing adulterous acts or being beaten up.  Maria Wyeth, an actress, is portrayed as the unhappiest of the lot.  Besides losing her mother to a car accident when Maria was a young girl, she is currently experiencing the messy break-up of her marriage and then chooses to abort presumably her husband's baby. These events leave Maria traumatized and drained, and she eventually  becomes severely unhinged.  None of the book's characters is remotely likable or sympathetic, although Ms. Didion seems to think Maria is simply tragic.  I believe that she is just too inconsequential to assume that role.  If this book has a theme it about the shallowness, emptiness and nothingness of life, that is when it is not overrun with evilness.  Ms. Didion's moral seems to be, &quot;don't look under a rock--a poisonous snake may be laying there ready to bite you.&quot;  Not a pretty picture.	2004-06-30
US	44581654	R2KZHD5GPQGFMO	0156907909	239704235	The Town and the City	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You can go home again	This semi-autobiographical work covering the life and times of Jack Kerouac before he went &quot;On the Road&quot; comes full circle.  It begins in the small town of Galloway, Massachusettes, wends its way to the city of New York, then finally returns to Galloway.  Peter Martin has a large, nurturing, and close knit family.  As happens in many families, as the children grow older and become young adults, they begin to drift apart from the family unit.  Peter, who achieves fame as a college football star, later tires of college and small town life, and falls captive to the lure of New York City, where he meets several bohemian types, two of whom are readily identifiable as Allen Ginsberg and William Burroughs.  Francis, one of Peter's brothers, gets accepted into Harvard and falls in with a bookish, intellectual sort of man.  One of the Martin sisters, Liz, decides to run off with a musician who specializes in be-bop.  Added to this equation are family financial woes, a father with a gambling problem, and the start of the second world war, in which a couple of the brothers enlist in the armed services to fight the war against fascism in Europe.<br />I have to admit that I was occasionally put off by Kerouac's tendency to over sentimentalize the events in the life of the Martin family, but what Kerouac has by and large created is a warm and loving portrait of the complex nature of family relationships.  The book shows, perhaps surprisingly, that people most often have the most heatedly passionate arguments with those family members whom they most love.  What especially stood out for me in this book was Peter's Galloway friendship with Alexander Panos, a particularly sensitive and emotional young Greek-American who wrote poetry.  There was also a strange and very funny scene in a New York subway where Martin's Jewish-American friend utilizes a unique method to &quot;spy&quot; on another rider, perhaps foreshadowing the Jack Kerouac that came after _The Town and the City_.	2004-06-28
US	44581654	R1G7KISOZ4MURN	0879233745	694293575	In the Heart of the Heart of the Country & Other Stories (Nonpareil Books, #21)	Books	3	8	24	N	N	Five stories, only one particularly memorable	If I were to recommend any of the stories from this book, it would be the first one, &quot;The Pederson Kid.&quot; It is the only one of the five that follows a consistent and well-developed story line, which is about several members of a family who endeavor to rescue a neighboring family during a horrendous blizzard. It is colorfully written and loaded with lots of snow related imagery. In the other stories Mr. Gass largely substitutes atmosphere for plot, to wit a housewife who examines in descriptive detail the myriad insects she has collected. Perhaps that is the author's point: being a member of the post-modernist school of writing, Mr. Gass tries to create a certain kind of poetry at the expense of plot and character development, to the extent there is such in short stories. On that level his imagery does attain a certain kind of beauty, but after a while it was not enough to sustain my interest in these stories.	2004-06-05
US	44581654	R1YE2LFS1CGP0X	0060930861	901054422	Cloudsplitter: A Novel	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Bearing Witness	_Cloudsplitter_ is presented as an account of the life and work of radical abolitionist John Brown by surviving son, Owen Brown, who hoped to offer his writings to would be biographers of his father.  According to Owen, John Brown would have objected to being described as an &quot;abolitionist,&quot; a term he associated with such theorists as William Lloyd Garrison, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and the Reverend Henry Ward Beecher, all who spoke eloquently of abolishing slavery but did nothing about it.  John Brown preferred &quot;action, action, action&quot; in liberating blacks from their masters and destroying the slavocracy in pre-Civil War America.  If accomplishing his goals meant murdering slave owners and their other male family members, then so be it.  John Brown was true to his word when Congress passed the Kansas-Nebraska bill, after which drunken southern Border Ruffians and abolitionist free-soilers streamed into Kansas territory either to open Kansas to slavery or to keep it free.  Many went into Kansas for the sole purpose of grabbing cheap land.<br />John Brown, as dramatized in Russell Banks's stirring and provocative novel, was more than just the crazed zealot portrayed in history books.  He was above all a loving and devoted father and husband who suffered greatly at the deaths of a number of his children at very young ages.  John Brown was a deeply religious man who preached and sincerely believed in freedom for the black man.  John Brown also viewed the Bible as a handbook for waging war on slave masters and firmly believed that God spoke directly with him and chose him as His instrument of liberation.  It is with this belief that Brown gathered together a small rag-tag army of men (including several of his sons) in the raid on Harpers Ferry in 1859.  Brown was certain that they would initiate a massive uprising of slaves against their masters.  The great former slave, Frederick Douglass, while loving John Brown for his bravery and his great heart, understood both the white and the black man well and knew that Brown's efforts were doomed to failure.<br />What makes _Cloudsplitter_ more than just an in-depth, three dimensional biographical novel of John Brown is Owen Brown's telling of his personal relationship with his father.  Owen Brown was more than just his father's right-hand lieutenant.  Owen's actions and very thoughts were completely dominated by his father.  Owen lived under the yoke of John Brown as much as any black man did under the yoke of his white master.  Comparing Owen Brown to his father, John Brown's best friend, a black man, told Owen that he was not even half the man his father was.  This remark haunted Owen for the rest of his life.  Many years later, Owen Brown, a lonely old man living in a secluded cabin, questioned whether he were finally out from under John Brown's influence or if he should be dead, lying near his father &quot;where I have always properly belonged.&quot;	2004-06-01
US	44581654	R3SAQZ1X8HAOC7	0375713387	801234739	Lafcadio's Adventures: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Much more here than meets the eye	Gide's _Lafacdio's Adventures_ is much more than a book about a young man who commits a senseless crime.  It is also far more than just a couple of mascarading crooks who concoct a story of the kidnapping of a high church official as a means of bilking a naive gentleman of his money.  Gide has written a marvelously twisty-even slightly twisted-and often hillariously funny crime novel.  What places _Lafcadio's Adventures_ far above that genre is its emphasis on the meaning of friendship, loyalty, genuine caring and a real sense of responsibility for another human being that can and often does transform people.  Gide takes an interesting look at a social outsider in a fresh and humane way.  The result is a truer and far more complex and sympathetic picture of such an individual.  Even if I could not quite make out his motivations there is still much to think about in Gide's brilliant study of saints and sinners.	2004-05-03
US	44581654	RUM1B5OEJR791	0452275490	420008687	The Waterworks	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Mr. Doctorow has written a fairly good mystery novel	In _The Waterworks_ E.L. Doctorow tries his hand in writing a mystery and the results are fairly successful.  Doctorow is no stranger to period pieces, as all of his readship knows.  It is circa 1871, in New York City and the notorious Tweed Ring is very much in control of the Democratic Party's Tammany Hall and much of everything else that matters.  In _The Waterworks_ the narrator, Mr. McIlvaine, the city editor of a New York newspaper, while endeavoring to investigate the disappearance of Martin Pemberton, a freelance critic, unwittingly assists in efforts to ovethrow Boss Tweed and his gang.  Besides being quite atmospheric and evocative of that era, the book is loaded with colorful characters, including the fabulously wealthy, but dastadly Augustus Pemberton (father of Martin), who is presumed dead but occasionally shows up in the most unlikely places, the incorruptible Captain Donne (a possible former love interest to Martin's widowed mother), and the very shadowy and mad scientist-like Dr. Sartorius, who figures strongly in some strange doings regarding a number of street urchins and some very wealthy, but very sickly old men.  There is a graveyard scene in Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx that, although somewhat familiar to fans of the horror genre, may cause some readers' hair to stand on end.  The plot contains no particular surprises or innovations in the mystery-horror realm of novels, but is nevertheless fairly well written and held my interest.  Mr. Doctorow does, however, give away the solution to the mystery too soon, thereby dampening somewhat the novel's impact.  He would done better by waiting to the very end to reveal this, rather than choosing the ending he did, however charming.	2004-04-26
US	44581654	R2O9QS0HWKQDSG	0374505241	113731400	The Violent Bear It Away: A Novel	Books	4	2	7	N	N	The virus of religious fanaticism	It was predicted by Francis Tarwater's great-uncle that young Tarwater would become a prophet and would baptize the son of the great-uncle's other nephew, Rayber.  Young Tarwater is orphaned in a car crash and is raised by his great-uncle, a very disturbed Tennesee backwoods religious fanatic.  At the great-uncle's death, young Tarwater comes to live with Rayber apparently for the sole purpose of carrying out his mission to baptize Rayber's young, supposedly mentally defective child.  Rayber, a school teacher with Hamlet-like indecisiveness, is, nevertheless, adamantly opposed to his nephew's scheme.  He instead wants young Tarwater educated and to overcome his ignorant notions. Even though young Tarwater swears that he wants no part of his great-uncle's prophesies, he is nevertheless compelled to carry out his destiny.  Interestingly, Rayber suffers from may of the same neurotic compulsions of his nephew, but struggles to hold them in check.  Young Tarwater and a very emotionally flawed Rayber are virtually at war for the young child's soul. <br />Ms. O'Connor freely uses metaphors and symbolism to draw her characters and to embellish her story.  She particularly utilizes the elements of nature throughtout this novel: fire, water, earth, air, and often refers to young Tarwater's great &quot;hunger,&quot; another elemental force that he cannot seem to satiate.  _The Violent Bear It Away_ is very well-written and very frightening in its intensity.  Some very disturbing (maybe too disturbing) things occur in this book.  It is made perfectly clear that once the virus of religious righteousness infects somebody, there is nothing that person would not do to fulfill his crusade, even if it means trampling on the rights of the innocent.	2004-04-21
US	44581654	R1B27H2YX56AGV	0312265069	282705437	Why Are We in Vietnam?: A Novel	Books	5	19	21	N	N	You will hardly believe your eyes and ears	Two boys in their older teens, nicknamed D.J. and Tex, go with their corporate executive fathers on a hunting trip to Alaska.  They all hope to carry home the heads of bears and other animals as trophies.  Both boys, who are close friends, live in the lap of luxury with their families in Texas.  Their excursion becomes a last fling before they enter the real world of adulthood and the horrible realities of Vietnam of the mid to late 1960s.  The wooded environment into which they enter not only mesmerizes the boys, but proves to be as shocking as a pitcher of icy cold water being splashed in their faces.  While in Alaska they experience nature, in all its beauty, grandeur, and horror.  In part of their hunting trip they fly over the terrain in a helicopter; other times they walk carrying no weapons at all.  Mailer also delves, often scurrilously I might add, into the adults' past sexual adventures with women, much of it probably fantasy and male braggadoccio.  While there are some lulls in the beginning of the book, the action eventually starts to build and build and build until a crescendo is reached.  In the wild, they discover, it is kill or be killed; it is the survival of the fittest.  D.J. and Tex become caught up in this and D.J., especially, sees their relationship, fleetingly, in a sexually predatory way.<br /><br />While becoming immersed in this whirlwind of a novel, I thought of the \\"The Deerhunter,\\" a powerful film also addressing the issues of macho behavior against the backdrop of the War in Vietnam.  Norman Mailer's novel, as good as it is, confirms many of my worst beliefs about male hubris, love of violence, and war.	2004-04-15
US	44581654	R173JHZ9C8RNVH	0671212168	581330272	Greek Passion	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Yet another saintly person suffers for everyone's sins	_The Greek Passion_ is a work of art written by a genius who undeniably knew his own people.  Nikos Kazantzakis transports the story of the passion of Jesus Christ to a Greek village that is under the control of the Turks during the final years of the Ottoman Empire.  This version of the passion is one of great beauty and is told with tremendous fervor and emotion.  Here, a simple, innocent shepard receives blame for, then accepts personal responsibility for the sins of his neighbors so that their lives may be spared.  The shepard and his followers are called bolsheviks and worse because they believe that a band of starving refugees from another village, which includes children with distended bellies, should be fed and clothed from the storehouses and the homes of some of the wealthy community elders.  Two aspects of religion are shown:<BR>a hypocritical priest who is so concerned with protecting his power and authority that he panders to the enemy, a Turkish Agha, over the welfare of the Greek people; and, a saintly priest, who acts in the true spirit of Christianity by endeavoring to relieve his peoples' suffering.  The forces of these two disparate priests eventually clash and the results are both tragic and heartbreaking.  It is apparent that very little has changed since the time of Jesus.  Special interests are still putting up road blocks to prevent the meek from inheriting the earth.   _The Greek Passion_ is a novel that the admirers of Mahatma Gandhi, Martin Luther King, and perhaps even Jesus Christ, himself, would love.	2004-04-12
US	44581654	RU54G9TYAY9N6	0002253569	741679065	Information	Books	3	2	3	N	N	With friends like these, who needs enemies	_The Information_ is about two long-time friends, each in his own way, suffering from insecurity and from deep feelings of inadequacy.  Gwyn Barry is a best-selling writer of trashy novels and Richard Tull, who writes about more esoteric subject matter while reviewing books on the side, considers himself lucky if he can get one of his books sold.  Richard is extremely jealous of Gwyn's success and teeters on the edge of insanity in his efforts to get even with Gwyn.  In return, Gwyn resorts to taking lessons in shooting pool.  It seems that Richard always narrowly beats Gwyn at snooker as well as in other games.  They are constantly seeking to humiliate one other, whether by bedding each others wives, or in Richard's case, by spreading false rumors about Gwyn.  Ultimately Richard hires a thug (interestingly, the only person who deigns to purchase Richard's book) to harm Gwyn physically.  Their trip together to America on a book-signing and speaking tour turns into a disastrously humiliating, but hilarious, experience for Richard.<br />On the down side, I frequently found Martin Amis's style of writing confusing and hard to follow, especially regarding his tendency to jump forward and backward in time.  This was particularly apparent when Amis recounted the activities of some of Richard's lower-life acquaintances.  Still, it is fun to read about Richard and Gwyn continually raising the ante of danger to themselves to to each other as pseudo-macho combatants.	2004-03-22
US	44581654	R1V8TDYGV5WZQA	0684824795	240643617	Snow White	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Definitely not Walt Disney	I have to admit that it took me quite some time to get into this version of _Snow White_.  Batheleme's writing seemed too clever, too facile, too concerned with word play, too designed for the intellectual reader (not to be confused with the intelligent reader).  I started to connect, but not entirely, with the far from fairy tale-like characters, who were more like people out of a Dashiell Hammett crime novel.  Snow White, a sexy, femme fatale, with long black hair and a body that does not quit.  Paul, hardly anyone's idea of a Prince Charming.  He seemed incapable of rescuing her.  The seven men with whom Snow White lived--who were they?  No one could possibly believe that Snow White was merely their housekeeper.  Jane, sort of, but not quite a wicked stepmother type, who could mix a mean cocktail.<br />Batrthelme's cynical, fractured fairy tale is kind of fun, inventively written and diverting, but loveable and warmhearted?  Absolutely not!	2004-03-02
US	44581654	R2WVGRAQYRVMDA	014043920X	79730774	The Gilded Age: A Tale of Today (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Greed	The post-Civil War years were a time of rapid industrialization in America, aided and abetted by burgeoning plans to build a transcontinental railroad.  Many people saw an opportunity to get a piece of the action, to speculate with family savings, the little that there were, in hopes of making millions of dollars in return.  Investing in coal mining was one example.  It is against this background that _The Gilded Age_ takes place.<br />Many in Congress saw an opportunity to support various projects that were supposedly for the public good, e.g. building a university for the newly freed slaves upon land, located in Tenneesee, bequeathed by a family patriarch to his children.  These schemes were also meant to line many people's pockets.  The novel's Senator Dilworthy supports various liberal causes and \\"family values,\\" i.e. Sunday school education, but is also thoroughly corrupt.<br />_The Gilded Age_ is meant to be a morality tale where everyone receives his just deserts: the evil or those just plain greedy are punished, including a vengence seeking young woman deeply wronged by her married lover, and the good and the conscientious are rewarded.  While the book occasionally gets bogged down in the scandalous details of this young woman's love life, _The Gilded Age_ is often an interesting, lively and educational glance into the manners of 1870s America.	2004-02-17
US	44581654	R1NKJKHDPPS30B	0679768165	122781389	The First Man	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Camus's unfinished "Horatio Alger" Story	_The First Man_ was published by the late author's daughter, Catherine Camus.  Largely autobiographical, the manuscript was raw, uncorrected and unfinished at the time of Camus's death.  In it Camus speaks of the father he never met, who was killed in combat in World War I.  Camus, called \\"Jacques Cormery\\" in the novel, was raised by his strong-willed grandmother, a strict disciplinarian who would punish Jacques for wearing out his shoes playing soccer.  From a poverty stricken family living in Algiers, Jacques's grandmother just did not have the money to purchase him new shoes.  Jacques's war widow mother, a deaf mute, took a backseat to his grandmother in raising her son.  Both women were illiterate.  Jacques's Uncle Ernest, also deaf, provided a loving and strongly positive male role model for Jacques.  Camus also describes the beneficent influence of a beloved male teacher who greatly encourages Jacques to succeed academically despite his family's indigence and ignorance.<br />According to Camus's daughter, who wrote the preface to the book, had Camus lived, as a man with a reserved nature he would have edited out much of his personal feelings that he included in the manuscript.  Left untouched the published manuscript had an honesty that it may not otherwise have had.  The book's unedited, frequent run-on sentences lent the book a flowing quality and a sense of immediacy and urgency.  Camus also beautifully described the suffocatingly hot, sere quality of the Algiers summers.  For me, _The First Man_ is a scintillating tale of a boy who triumphed despite his extreme disadvantages, who was never without \\"a sure confidence...(that) guaranteed that he would achieve everything he desired...\\"	2004-01-30
US	44581654	RQ50KUMN098MQ	0140042520	961771211	The Dharma Bums	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Finding freedom at last	Jack Kerouac and his friends were a part of a group of individuals who were known in the early 1950's as \\"The Beat Generation.\\"  They were the precursors of the hippies of the 1960's.  As expounded in Kerouac's wonderfully expressive and liberating book, the beats loved to write and to recite poetry, drink wine, laze around, hike and camp in the woods, sleep under the stars with their rucksacks nearby, and go rock climbing.  Many of the beats road the rails (as celebrated by Woody Guthrie in the 1930's) or would hitchhike to get to their destinations.  Ray Smith, the hero and narrator of _Dharma Bums_, does all of these things; he even criss-crosses the country by thumbing rides. Like many of his comrades Ray is a practicing Buddhist. He integrates Buddhism and meditation into all aspects of his life, whether in his relationships with people or in seeking a oneness with nature.  Ray shares in many of these activities with his best friend, Japhy, who recommends to Ray that he seek a summer job as watcher (preventer of forest fires) with the U.S. Forest Service. Following Japhy's advice, Ray finds work at Desolation Peak in the Great Pacific Northwest.  It is there that Ray, tasting of the elemental forces of nature, recognizes that \\"The vision of the freedom of eternity was mine forever.\\"   Like Ray's unique experience, _Dharma Bums_ is a revelation.	2004-01-29
US	44581654	R3QIS7IYDJ0I3D	0486264726	244802770	The Call of the Wild	Books	4	5	7	N	N	The Legend Of Buck Is Born	Buck's father was a St. Bernard and his mother was a Scotch shepard.  Buck was experiencing a leisurely existence in San Diego with a judge and his family when Buck was kidnapped and sold as a sled dog in Alaska.  This was at the time of the 1898 gold rush.  From the start Buck is different from the other dogs in the sled team: he is more intellegent, more resourceful, fiercer, far more cunning, and most of all braver.  Buck, a natural leader, usurps the authority of the equally fierce lead sled dog.  Buck, as well as the other dogs are worked to exhaustion by several incompetent humans;  they  undergo starvation and repetitive beatings until Buck is rescued by a kindly John Thornton, who nurtures Buck back to strength and health while providing the impetus for Buck's eventual claim to greatness.<br />_The Call Of The Wild_ is an extraordinary adventure story with Mr. London providing a magnificent description of the bleak and forbidding northern tundra.  The scenes in which Buck and his  canine rivals and antagonists nearly fight to the death are brutally riveting.  Don't expect character development, though. The humans in the novella are mere supporting players to Buck who returns to the wild and achieves the promise of his ancestry.	2004-01-13
US	44581654	RXAB10H2VMWUX	0345371135	234936263	The Quincunx	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Charles Dickens without the over-sentimentality	Money has always brought out the worst in people.  Add in contested property ownership, a purloined will, include many acquisitive close and distant relatives and you have the recipe for disaster.  _Quincunx_ revolves around John Huffam, who seeks justice for himself and for his mother.  They have been denied their rights of inheritance to an ancestral estate due to familial greed and vengence.  John's true identity and heritage, which are very slowly revealed to him throughout the years, are kept from him by his mother for fear of discovery.  She takes an alias and lives under constant dread of being murdered.  Even their closest friends, relatives, and servants are suspected of attempting to betray them.<br />Like a Charles Dickens novel, _Quincunx_ takes place circa Victorian England.  Also, as do many of the Dickensian characters, the Huffams eventually slide into dire poverty.  We also experience the opulence of their more fortunate relatives.  Like a typical Dickens child, John undergoes severe abuse and neglect by those who run so-called schools and other institutions, including by those individuals in the legal system.  The novel is also very atmospheric with loads of colorful and picaresque characters, and is comprised of numerous labyrinthine plots and subplots. There are enough deaths, through murder and other means, cliffhangers, and intrigue to fill at least ten mystery novels.  Unlike a Dickens novel, however, _Qunicunx_ avoids the sentimentality that the great master often utilized to manipulate tears from his readership.  Charles Palliser relies, instead, on great storytelling that kept me glued to this compulsively readable novel.	2004-01-09
US	44581654	R3P6VB59IMY5M	0876857632	358868458	Hollywood	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Hurray for Hollywood!	Drinking and creativity do not necessarily go together.  For every O'Neill, Faulkner, Hemingway, and London, there are hundreds of others who live lonely, desparate and short existences, slowly drinking themselves to death in complete anonymity.  Luckily, the world was blessed to have had Charles Bukowski whose most creative moments emerged when he sat before a typewriter with a wine bottle in one hand.  Bukowski wrote gritty and no holds barred novels and poetry about the things he loved best--drinking, horse racing and women.  He also wrote the screenplay for \\"Barfly,\\" a film about his young manhood, spent hanging around seedy bars, getting into drunken brawls with the bartender, and writing some of the best poems this side of the grave.<br />Bukowski tells the story of his screenwriting experience through his alter ego Henry Chinaski, a survivor when everyone else in his crowd had already died.  It's all there--dealing with easily bruised egos, the Hollywood eccentrics, the on again, off again production problems in making the film, and the continuous inconsistency of cash flow.  What lends _Hollywood_ its wonderful resonance is its realness--the boldness and the pluck of its coarse leading player, Charles Bukowski/Hank Chinaski.  And of course, his inspiration, the bottle of wine which was, even on the set, never too far off.	2003-11-04
US	44581654	RGCM7YKZHOW54	0316926078	769825173	Decline and Fall	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Biting satire of the British class system	_Decline And Fall_ is a biting satire of the British class system.  According to \\"the rules of the game\\" the British aristocracy not only own all wealth and property, but also have a licence to control and manipulate the lower classes for their own selfish needs.  For instance, Margot Beste-Chetwynde, a wealthy and attractive widow deeply involved in the international prostitution trade, manipulates poor Paul Pennyfeather into travelling to Marseilles to assist several of Mrs. B-C's \\"ladies\\" detained there.  For his part, Paul is arrested and forced to take the rap for Mrs. B-C.  Mr. Waugh makes it quite clear that Paul is not the novel's hero.  He is too light-weight and inconsequential to assume that role as the name Pennyfeather implies.  Paul encounters one mishap after another, including disinheritence by his guardian, having been unjustly blamed for a prank that was played on him at Scone College, where Paul had been enrolled.<br />_Decline And Fall_ contains a bevy of colorful and picaresque characters: the shadowy butler, Philbrick, who recounts to anyone who will listen myriad versions of his background, none of them true; the drunken fool of a school-master, Prendergast, who later becomes a chaplain at the jail where Paul becomes incarcerated; the bigamist and very elusive Captain Grimes; and Mr. Sebastien (Chokey) Chotmondley, who is Mrs. B-C's constant companion, a sensitive and erudite black man, who is the subject of gossip of Mrs. B-C's aristocratic friends.<br />Mr. Waugh's novel of class and culture clash is extraordinarily droll and full of dark humor.  One character aptly sums up the author's highly cynical and critical philosophy when he puts to Paul Pennyfeather the query if he could ever imagine Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde spending time in prison?  Of course not--it is the job of the lower classes to go to prison and to suffer for the pecadillos of the upper classes.	2003-10-23
US	44581654	R1EBXSZYUE25XG	0679727256	952258128	The Gift	Books	2	8	17	N	N	I would like to return this gift	Fyodor, the protagonist of _The Gift_, is a Russian living in Berlin.  Fyodor is having a great deal of difficulty getting his writings published.  Given the task of completing his biography in-progress of Chernyshevski, the late Russian writer accused of conspiring to assassinate Tsar Alexander II, Fyodor is finally able to get something published.  Chapter 4 of _The Gift_  encompasses this biography.<br />Vladimir Nabokov is considered one of the greatest authors of the 20th century.  Nabokov is incapable of writing a paragraph, much less a sentence, without creating a work of poetry.  This is no less true in _The Gift_.  Nabokov does give a picaresque description of Fyodor's relationship with his adverturous  father, a hunter of rare and exotic butterflies.  _The Gift_, however, is so over-ladden with metaphors and intellectual gymnastics that character and plot development are almost completely sacrficed.  The book also lacks focus, wildly jumping from one story line to another in quick succession.  I completed reading _The Gift_ only because the author is the great Nabokov.	2003-10-15
US	44581654	R21VK8PIGL5HZS	0140064842	264926159	Legs	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Legend is just another word to describe a dead man	_Legs_ opens with a number of former friends and associates of the late Jack \\"Legs\\" Diamond reminiscing about the nature of the legendary gangster's death.  Despite the subject matter of this rambling discussion I was struck by its high content of \\"gallows humor.\\"<br />What I liked about this novel was although William Kennedy attempted to humanize Jack Diamond to a certain extent, Kennedy did not sentimentalize or apologize for him.  I had no doubt that Jack Diamond was exactly what he was: a booklegger, a thief, and a murderer.  Despite numerous arrests, Jack Diamond was \\"The Teflon\\" gangster--none of the state charges against him would stick.  Jack was a true media celebrity, in the same sense that the popular, but corrupt New York Mayor, Jimmy Walker, was at the time, although Jack was often unkind to reporters and photographers.  Jack had loads of fans, who were mostly \\"the common man\\" who probably identified with Jack's humble beginnings.  He also had many detractors, some of whom wanted to kill him.  Jack also had a loving wife, Alice, and an adoring mistress, Marion \\"Kiki\\" Roberts, a dance hall girl.  Jack loved them both in his own fashion.  In a particularly trying time towards the end of his short life, Jack sought comfort from both women by keeping them near him, in separate rooms, on the same floor in a hotel in which he was staying at the time.  His body guards were in another room.  It seems that the only person Jack ever truly loved was his brother, Eddie, who died many years before of tuberculosis.  Just mentioning Eddie would cause Jack's eyes to well-up with tears.  But any doubts of Jack Diamond being a vicious and sadistic criminal were completely dispelled in his kidnapping, torture, and near-hanging of an old man (accompanied by his young companion) who Jack erroneously believed was a rival bootlegger.  It was this event (brutally described in the book and not for the squeamish) that caused Jack to be brought to trial, which included federal charges and unwanted media attention.<br />William Kennedy wrote _Legs_ in a light, informal style that also never let up on the intensity.  I found reading the book fun, but with a constant, lingering sense of dread and doom that never left me.  The fact remains that Legs Diamonds lived the last months of his life in constant fear of assasination and in spite of his greed for money, he died impoverished.	2003-09-26
US	44581654	R3SYQUG789YM8G	0345326490	316822403	Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Rugged Individualism Personified	This book is the author's memoir of the time he was a park ranger at Arches National Monument in Utah.  Edward Abbey was a true believer in maintaining the pristine, natural beauty of the desert area under his guardianship.  Abbey was extraordinarily hostile to what he called &quot;Industrial Tourism&quot;: the construction of a system of roads through this desert wonderland which would brings thousands of tourists, their automobiles, and eventual ruination to the environment.  He mentions the many pressure groups who threaten to turn Arches National Monument, and other national parks, into picnic grounds.  Abbey admits that he would be happy if no tourists ever visited his park.<br />Abbey describes desert scenery of great natural beauty and wonder.  He often hiked in the desert area on unmarked trails, carrying with him the barest provisions, often risking his life on the possibility he may never get back.  Abbey concerned himself with getting to his destination first, then worry about getting back afterwards.  Tourists would never even consider taking such journeys.  _Desert Solitaire_ is written in a style nearing poetry--blank verse--and was a total joy to read.	2003-09-17
US	44581654	RLDOK34IFZP76	061813171X	251907750	The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Just one more tale before I die, even if it's this one	While heading for Sri Lanka with his girl friend, Simon William Behler, becomes stranded, not only in place, but more importantly in time.  A man of the first half of the 20th century, Simon finds himself suddenly in medieval Iraq.  Simon is saved by men employed by none other than Sinbad the Sailor.  Sinbad and Simon, respectively, trade tales of adventure and the adventure of growing up in a tidewater town in Baltimore.  Sinbad's voyages are packed with legends and myths, right out of &quot;1001 Arabian Nights.&quot;  While Sinbad's recounting of these voyages have moments of excitement, they are poor substitutes for Simon's routine stories of growing up.  I have read about similar things many times before: the first kiss, the loss of one's virginity to an older girl considered crazy by the other boys in the town.  Barth presents Simon's ultimate &quot;rite of passage&quot; with much fanfare.  I could not help but compare that to the need for Yasmin, Sinbad's daughter, to protect her virginity at all costs, with the unwanted assistance of those too eager to examine Yasmin, lest she prove herself unfit for marriage.  Barth consistently pounds away at the virginity issue with the subtlety of a sledge hammer.<br />Despite its occasional bright spots, most noteworthy the nature of Simon's birth and his strange &quot;relationship&quot; with his twin sister, _The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor_ is a huge disappointment.  I expect more originality and humor from the author of _Tidewater Tales_ and _Giles Goat Boy_.  In those two books Barth is a master in combining Greek mythology and other fantasy with great plots, lots of imagination, and a raucously witty writing style.  In _The Last Voyage_ Barth too often falls into cliche and misses his usual standard considerably.	2003-09-10
US	44581654	R10P133YHKG6VU	0679734937	686935242	The Plumed Serpent	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Battle of the sexes in love and war	Kate, an Irish woman visiting Mexico, is in a continuous state of war with herself: whether to maintain her independence from men in the modern, European society to which she was familiar or to submerge her very soul to Cipriano, a Native American general bent upon revolution in Mexico.  Cipriano would call it \\"uniting\\" their souls.  Kate, having a gentle, womanly spirit, views Mexicans as \\"dark men\\" steeped in violence, revolution and death.  She is sickened by this attitude--as she was by the bull fight presented early in the book--having lost a husband who was dedicated to fighting for Ireland's freedom from Britain.  In fact, _The Plumed Serpent_ concerns the battle of women against men and the ambivalent feelings (including sexual) of one for the other.  Kate is equally attracted to and repelled by the Mexican culture.  Dona Carlota, the wife of Ramon who is a close friend of Cipriano, like Kate is an opponent of Ramon's revolutionary fervor.  Both Ramon and Cipriano yearn to replace \\"the Gringo\\" Jesus Christ's hold on the Church with the Aztec God Quetzalcoatl.  There is a harrowing and incendiary scene in the book concerning just this issue.<br />The book contains a number of references to sexuality, both male (Cipriano and Ramon are often shown at least partially naked) and female (Kate's expression of her sexuality as an indication of her independence, whereas Cripriano often sees her as a vessel for his manhood).  I only wish that Lawrence had not dwelt so much in the novel on hymns written by Ramon as a paeon to Quetzalcoatl.   This often bogged the book down in pseudo-Aztec myth-making and took away from what was otherwise a well-written and meaningful book.	2003-08-03
US	44581654	R1UF3BQ06DR5GL	1582430179	358466190	Cocaine Nights	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Devilishly charming tale of evil masking as good intentions	_Cocaine Nights_ is what you get when a writer of the caliber of J.G. Ballard develops what could have been just another novel of murder and suspense into an \\"immorality tale\\" of hero worship that goes terribly wrong.<br />Bobby Crawford is a handsome and talented tennis instructor who wants to transform the sleepy retirement village of Residencia Costasol, situated on the coast of Spain, into an artistic, theatrically oriented, and civic minded community as a front for a den of drug dealers, pornographers, prostitution, and thieves.  Crawford previously did the same for the Spanish resort of Estrella de Mar, home of Club Nautica, managed by Frank Prentice, a Brit recently jailed after he confessed to setting  ablaze the home of the elderly and wealthy Mr. and Mrs. Hollinger that snuffed out their lives and those of three other people.  Charles Prentice, a travel writer and Frank's older brother, believes in Frank's innocence, despite the latter's repeated protestations to the contrary.  Charles goes to Estrella de Mar to investigate the matter.<br />Charles is slowly sucked into the charming and cunning Bobby Crawford's web of corruption, as are many others in the book.  They believe that Crawford is basically a do-gooder, in spite of his penchant for petty and not so petty crimes, to which the police repeatedly turn a blind eye.<br />I was caught in the grip of this unbelievably suspenseful tale of a later day Sodom and Gomorrah that just never lets up. I could not help comparing the character of Bobby Crawford with that of the late Jim Jones of the Jonestown Massacre infamy.  Jim Jones was a handsome, charismatic man of many talents who led his naive followers into the promised land of Guyana.  Like Bobby Crawford, a cult of personality formed around Jim Jones, and like Bobby Crawford, Jim Jones was a psychopath.  Each man believed he was the Messiah, but it was Jim Jones, if not necessarily Bobby Crawford, who eventually proved to be the Angel of Death.<br />Letme just say that the climax of _Cocaine Nights_, despite my Bobby Crawford/Jim Jones analogy, is quite unexpected.  I do promise that the irony of it will leave your mouth gaping.	2003-07-13
US	44581654	R392KTYX49F0LK	0156658992	30158	The Nine Tailors	Books	3	13	17	N	N	The Bells Toll	Lord Peter Wimsey, sleuth extrordinaire, assists the Police Superintendent of Fenchurch St. Paul to identify the body of a man buried in the recently deceased Lady Thorpe's grave. The grave was meant to be shared by Lady Thorpe's husband, who recently died during an influenza epidemic.  Wimsey and the Superintendent also endeavor to find out who so sadistically defaced the grave's temporary occupant and why, and hope to uncover secrets related to the theft of a valuable emerald necklace and its connection, if any, to the unidentified body.  On the way to the resolution of these misdeeds, I endured an endlessly tedious analysis of the crimes and possible perpetrators' motives. The introduction of a cryptogram allegedly sent by the unidentified victim is an over-elaborate plot device that I found more than a bit trite.<br />What gives this book a big boost, though, is Ms. Sayers' scintillating presentation of synchronized ringing of the Fenchurch St. Paul's bells by rope. Ms. Sayers creates imagery of sheer beauty and magnificence. I almost felt as if I were there experiencing such overwhelming loveliness. The names of two of the bells, Batty Thomas and Tailor Paul are colorful and also figure strongly in the plot. The actions of the heroic Mr. Venables, the church Rector, who assists the towns people and helps to pull them together during a horrific flood is very memorable. I also enjoyed reading various quotations from the Psalms and other parts of the Bible that were peppered throughout the book and gave it the poignance that it might not otherwise have had.	2003-07-02
US	44581654	RQOOAF0MO27BP	0140167188	294881452	The Road to Wellville	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Father Knows Best, Or So He Says	John Harvey Kellogg was a man ahead of his time.  From the family that invented the corn flake, Dr. Kellogg ran a Sanitarium in Battle Creek, Michigan, that was one of the first of its kind in America.  Concerned with the physiologic health of its inmates (mostly from the wealthy and upper middle class population), Dr. Kellogg prescribed lots of exercise, enemas, a diet consisting of milk, vegetables, fruits, and grains.  No meat of any kind was allowed.  The inbibing of alcohol was forbidden as was any kind of sexual activity.  Sleeping quarters, even for husbands and wives, were strictly segregated.  Dr. Kellogg also performed various experiments to create different types of foods (e.g. corn pulp).  He even kept a laboratory holding containers of various animals' feces which Dr. Kellogg believed had the same nutritional value as a steak.  Dr. Kellogg was a rigid, self-righteous man who thoroughly believed in his infallability.  Never mind that one of his patient's skin was steadily becoming green and that another one was accidentally electrocuted while lolling in a sinusodial bath.  We later learn that Dr. Kellogg misdiagnosed one of his patients as having \\"autointoxication\\" (all of his patients were allegedly suffering from this malady), when what he really had was an intestinal ulcer.  Nor would Dr. Kellogg brook any disagreements with him or his methods.  Besides his closest competitor, C.W. Post (whose slogan, \\"the road to wellville\\" Dr. Kellogg thoroughly despised), the individual who gave Dr. Kellogg the most trouble was his adopted son, George, who was extraordinarily hostile, rebellious, and downright psychotic.   Dr. Kellogg believed that George was the only failure in his brood of 42 adopted children.<br />_The Road To Wellville_ is populated with many colorful and eccentric characters.  These include the businessman Will Lightbody (whose name perfectly described him) and his wife, Eleanor, who convinced her husband to accompany her to the San.  Both, according to Dr. Kellogg were very ill.  Will, who occasionally strayed from the San to partake of hamburger sandwiches and liquid libations, must endure severe punishment for his recalcitrance.  Eleanor was befriended by Lionel Badger, in whom Dr. Kellogg deeply mistrusted, and who was a radical anti-vivisectionist and a thorough believer in nudism.  Eleanor was also treated outside the San by the German, monocle wearing Dr. Spitzvogel, who would have gone to prison if his methods were judged by today's standards.  There is young Charlie Ossining, whom Will and Eleanor met while on their train trip to Battle Creek.  Will and others invest in Charlie's breakfast food scheme.  Charlie hoped that his venture would enable him to cash in during the then current breakfast food craze.  Unfortunately, Charlie's plans go awry because he must contend with Bender, his flagrently dishonest business partner.<br />T.C. Boyle tell his novel with lots of verve, humor, warmth, and humanity.  Because Boyle cares deeply about his characters, so do we.  What makes _The Road To Wellville_ so poignant is its relevance to today's world.  Who amongst us is not familiar with the various diet fads that promise to make the obese lose up to 30 lbs. in two weeks?  New health and sports clubs constantly crop up everywhere that brag about their latest state of the art exercise equipment.  And who has not seen TV advertisements hawking all sorts of gadgets, and what not that were specially designed to build up men's abs or to flatten women's tummys?  So order _The Road To Wellville_ now, and if you do not find it thoroughly enjoyable, engaging, and funny, your local book store owner will totally refund your money.	2003-06-19
US	44581654	R1V8JCBLWZGO0P	0140440046	295639784	Candide: Or Optimism (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Who's Happy?	According to Woody Allen the world is made up of two types of people: the horrible and the miserable. The horrible consist of the crippled, the maimed, and the chronically disabled; the miserable are everyone else. Candide, who believes in the thinking of his tutor, the philosopher Dr. Pangloss, travels throughout the then known world in search of someone who is truly happy. Dr. Pangloss is of the belief that everything that happens to one--whether for good or for bad--is all for the best in \\"this best of all possible worlds.\\" Martin, a philosopher with whom Candide later becomes acquainted, like Woody Allen after him, subscribes to the belief that everyone is unhappy and is doomed to suffer one misfortune after another.<br />Candide himself experiences one tragedy after another. Candide is swindled out of wealth that he accumulates in Eldorado, he suffers beatings, imprisonment, and endless humiliations. He is  kicked in the rear end for kissing Cunegonde, his sweetheart for whom he searches the world over. He is even in a shipwreck and is forced to swim ashore.  Candide calls out in despair to the absent Dr. Pangloss, for Candide hears only tales of woe from those he meets in his journey.<br />_Candide_ should not be taken too seriously. It is meant as a parable and a satire on religious beliefs and on human behavior. That people are greedy, selfish, dishonest, and enjoy inflicting pain on others should be no surprise to anyone who reads _Candide_. It is not unusual for characters in the book to be killed and later to return to life, or for a protagonist who is physically attractive to become aged and ugly, then later on to regain beauty. _Candide_ is an easy read with short chapters. It is rather entertaining, but can be very depressing at times. Its the message at the end--that love and friendship are what makes life meaningful--that is undeniably positive.	2003-05-31
US	44581654	R1HO0GEKWAPWGI	0156439611	466126836	If on a Winter's Night a Traveler	Books	5	5	5	N	N	For the love of reading	The protagonists of this extraordinarily beguiling and inventively written book are The Reader (a man, also called You) and The Other Reader (a woman, Ludmilla) both of whom are passionate book lovers.  Their common bond leads them eventually to also become passionate about each other.  Both discover that the book each is reading mistakenly contains unfinished novels by different authors.  Due to an alleged publishing error each novel ends abruptly.<br />_If On A Winter's Night A Traveler_ is really about the love of reading--the special relationship a reader forms with books.  Every reader brings what is in himself to the book he is reading: his expectations (who the author is, what is on the book jacket), his reading style (whether he devours every book written by the author or if he is more discerning in his tastes in literature), and the books he has read previously.<br />With wit, wisdom, and boundless imagination, Mr. Calvino brings You along on this magical journey, where paranoid plots abound to frustrate The Reader's and The Other Reader's intentions to finish the books into which they become so readily captivated.  Included are a nefarious translator, possible alien beings who influence the Readers' minds while they are reading, and a censorship czar from a foreign dictatorship.  All stand in the way of The Readers' finding satisfaction.<br />Ludmilla encourages The Reader to go to the book's publishing house, but she refuses to accompany him there.  To her the world is divided between readers and the authors and publishers, and she must never cross that line.  &quot;Otherwise,&quot;  Ludmilla goes on to say, &quot;the unsullied pleasure of reading ends, or at least is transformed into something else, which is not what I want.&quot;  The bottom line, and Mr. Calvino makes this abundantly clear, is that were there no readers, authors and the books that they write would cease to exist.  Readers could live without authors, but without readers authors would fade from existence.	2003-05-25
US	44581654	R3FI1O3E3ZRDOK	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Reminiscing	In _A Painted House_ Luke Chandler reminisces about being a seven year old boy living on his grandparents' farm in Black Oak, Arkansas in 1952. It is the last year that he lives on the farm. Luke must move with his parents to a city up north where greater economic opportunity beckons. In his young life Luke experiences events that a boy his age could never imagine, including his witnessing of two murders, both of which involve a man doing seasonal work on his grandfather's farm. What gives this book its special resonance is the sense of the passing of an era, the dying out of the American family farm which due to economic and continuous climatic problems causes the displacement of great numbers of rural families into the industrial north. Fewer people are choosing the backbreaking work of farming for which they may get so little if any profit in return. The subsequent problems that ensued in urban areas from this staggering influx of people could be the subject of other books dealing with that issue.<br />Grisham beautifully describes the closeness of rural families of days gone by, where it was not unusual for three or more generations to live together under one roof. As depicted in the book, it was a society where, in rough times, one family who had little would help another family that had nothing. Where a shopkeeper would give free candy to a child of a family she has known for many years, and where nothing remained secret for long. While stepping into his father's truck in the first step in their journey up north, Luke yearns for that day when everyone in his family, his Gran, his Pappy, and his beloved nineteen year old uncle stationed in Korea, will be once again together. The book gives no hint whether Luke's wish will ever come true, which is how it should be. No one knows what the future holds for him. <br />Grisham has written a wonderful, heartfelt story. While it may lack some of the subtleties of a John Steinbeck book, _A Painted House_ makes up for that and then some.	2003-05-23
US	44581654	RGNYEB9HDR4WN	044900371X	429783385	The Orchid Thief: A True Story of Beauty and Obsession (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Passionate Obsessions	John Laroche's all-consuming passion for orchids has led him into Florida's Fakahatchee swamp and into other such unlikely environments to locate new varieties of this elusive flower. Laroche hoped utilize a laboratory to clone these orchids and develop hybrids that could be mass marketed and make him very wealthy. To carry out his scheme, Laroche becomes an employee of the Seminole Indian tribe, then engages a bunch of them to assist him in his efforts. Laroche believes that because the Seminoles (and he as their employee) live on a reservation they were exempt from state and federal poaching laws. Instead, Laroche and his Seminole employers became targets of various criminal investigations. Laroche earns the name \\"Crazy White Man\\" from the Seminoles; this is meant as no compliment.<br />When Laroche develops an avocation he becomes passionately involved in it to the exclusion of all other interests. After major disappointments and heartaches, Laroche immediately drops this interest, develops a new one and refuses ever to look back.<br />This non-fiction account of John Laroche's eccentricities and of others who shared his passion, is told by Susan Orlean, a writer for The New Yorker magazine, who often accompanied Laroche on his adventures through the Florida swamps. Orlean, while enjoying an extremely valuable bird's eye view, never becomes personally involved in Laroche's passions. She never becomes a collector of orchids. Orlean is merely our guide (a very competent one at that) and Laroche's eyes and ears, so to speak. Orlean is wonderfully descriptive of the swamps' many varieties of plants and creatures--some quite deadly; as she mentions in the book, the swamp lands are full of life which she endures, if not quite appreciates, every step of the way. Orleans' narrative is overflowing with wit and irony, especially regarding the contradictions in state, federal, and park laws and regulations regarding poaching of indigenous animals and plants. Orleans' research into the history of the Seminole Indians (including some of their past illustrious leaders) and into the world of botony (not exclusively orchids) is thorough, impeccable, and truly amazing. We learn something about the characteristics of the thousands of varieties of orchids. Her occasional lapses into extraneous, and sometimes tedious, historical details may be forgiven. Orlean has written a breezy and very readable book of those passionate and brilliant oddballs who reside on the edges of society.	2003-05-09
US	44581654	R115WMPRWZEM5X	0679738959	860992598	The Age of Reason: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Desparate People	The title of Jean-Paul Sartre's vividly realistic novel of Paris on the dawn of World War II refers to adults who have achieved sufficient maturity to accept responsibility for their actions.  _The Age of Reason_ expertly weaves Sartre's philosophy of existentialism into a compelling story of people who desire freedom and responsibility but are extraordinarily incompetent. <br />The American Heritage Dictionary defines existentialism as \\"a philosophy that emphasizes the uniqueness and isolation of the individual experience in a hostile or indifferent universe...and stresses freedom of choice and responsibility for the consequences of one's acts.\\"  Mathieu, the novel's lead character, is in his mid-thirties and proclaims that he would like nothing better than freedom but is curiously lacking in the necessary maturity.  A penniless professor, he impregnates his girlfriend, Marcelle, then schemes to beg, borrow and steal to pay for her abortion.  Mathieu even toys with the idea of marrying Marcelle.  Mathieu is also in love with Ivich, a young woman whose self-inflicted wound Mathieu childishly emulates on a dare.  Sartre's novel also contains a self-hating gay man, Daniel, who plans to save Marcelle, but only by further degrading himself and Mathieu in the process.<br />Sartre's writing style is true to life, naturalistic, and is never less than totally engaging.  With the author we visit various Paris nightclubs and bars which have just the right touch of darkness and sleaziness.  Sartre's characters are hopeless but recognizably human.  Lola, a sad, aging nightclub singer, deeply in love with the completely useless Boris (Ivich's younger brother) evokes strong sympathy nonetheless.  Even Mathieu, as despicable as his conduct often is, believes by the end that he has finally \\"...attained the age of reason.\\"	2003-04-27
US	44581654	R5R4HMV8091IO	0679744665	686456715	The Moor's Last Sigh	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Salman Rushdie's Magnificent Saga of a Doomed Family	The Da Gama-Zogoiby Family is the union between a beautiful Indian-Christian woman, Aurora Da Gama, and a Jewish man, Abraham Zogoiby, originally from Cochin, a town in India with a fairly large Jewish population. They fall deeply in love with each other from the very start. Their marriage produces three daughters and their last born, a son whom they name Moraes, the narrator of this magnificent, erotic, and often darkly funny saga. For example, there is Moraes' eldest sister who joins the band of \\"a country and eastern\\" singer; then there is the late, beloved family dog, named after a former Indian prime minister, who still continues to \\"frolic around\\" with certain members of the family. <br />Moraes, called \\"the Moor\\" by everyone, was the unborn son that Abraham's resentful mother demanded to raise as a Jew. Moraes is afflicted with progressive premature aging and a clubbed right hand, but lives long enough to tell a story of near-incest, treachery, jealousy, vengence, corruption, suicide and murder. Far from being a poor, crippled innocent, the Moor is sometimes capable of violence and cowardice. Aurora, herself, is an artist of international renown, with great charm, charisma, and a sizable male following. Abraham, a businessman in the Da Gama family's spice trade, later becomes a wealthy and powerful \\"baby talcum powder\\" entrepreneur who is vehemently feared and hated by his detractors.<br />These are the barest elements that Rushdie utilizes to weave this wonderous epic.  Aside from its great sweep, Rushdie's abillity to combine realtiy with fantasy is simply amazing. I felt completely wrapped up in the narrative flow. Rushie also describes a panorama containing architectural works of great beauty and strangeness. The most unique structure is a synagogue containing mysterious blue floor tiles that can foretell the future. _The Moor's Last Sigh_ is also the history of India in the past one hundred years, beset with the turbulence and divisions similar to thoseof the doomed family presented in this book.	2003-04-12
US	44581654	R35QLX2X05HJW5	0140159754	253444565	My Son's Story	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Struggling With Apartheid And Adultery	_My Son's Story_ is told by Will, the son of a former schoolmaster, a light skinned, &quot;colored,&quot; anti-Apartheid activist in South Africa.  Will and his family live in an uneasy peace amongst white Afrikaans.  Will's father is known by his sobriquet, Sonny, by the blacks who admire him and depend upon his leadership against the virulent racism endemic in South Africa in those years.  The family has to endure Sonny's intermittant jailings related to his political struggles as well as Sonny's love affair with a white woman, named Hannah, who also shares Sonny's anti-Apartheid commitment.  Later on, Sonny's beloved daughter, called Baby by everyone, also becomes involved in the anti-Apartheid movement.  The most sympathetic person in the book is Aila, Sonny's quiet, dignified wife and mother to Will, who seemingly inadvertently, but inevitably, surplants Sonny as the political activist in the family.  Will's particular closeness to Aila and his resentments toward Sonny are the stuff of Greek tragedy.<br />Unfortunately, Ms. Gordimer's overly convoluted and intellectualized style of writing caused me to often feel distanced from her characters.  The result is a novel that frequently falls dead in its tracks.  Fortunately, Ms. Gordimer does occasionally write forcefully.  It is in these places that her message is communicated clearly and effectively.	2003-03-22
US	44581654	R30ADGNNT9UQ4	0553210165	641528927	Hard Times (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Some Old Truths	_Hard Times_ is a familiarly sentimental work by Dickens. This is especially the case regarding the character of Sissy Jupe, an overly sweet, innocent young girl who is abandoned by her father. Dickens seems determined to tug at the heart strings with this character.<br />Dickens does an admirable job in covering new ground concerning the factory owners and bankers exploitation of the poor, as well as exploring the beginnings of labor unrest in 1850's England. There is much for the factory laborer to be unhappy with in Cokestown, where the factories belch out dirty, polluted smoke all day long. Dickens combines these issues with his examination of the difficulties inherent in parenting and gives truth to the old adage that how the branch is bent, so grows the tree. Through much grief and contrition years later, school master Thomas Gradgrind learns that a cold, no nonsense approach to bringing up his daughter Louisa and his son, Tom, was wrong. Louisa has a good heart and dotes on her younger brother, but is otherwise very distrustful of humanity and exists in the world suffused in apathy; Tom is simply, as Dickens calls him, \\"a whelp\\", and a dishonest one at that. Louisa marries Josiah Bounderby, a banker who turns his nose up at the factory hands and mocks their aspirations to move up in the world. Bounderby refers to these individuals as trying to put a \\"gold spoon\\" in their mouths. The actions of Bounderby and the Gradgrinds directly lead to tragic consequences for Stephen Blackpool, an honest and courageous loom worker, who merely chooses not to be involved with the townspeople or their labor leader. Another old truth that there is no justice in the world is as real today as it was in Dickens' time.	2003-03-14
US	44581654	R1D8R9PY8VN3V4	0140189424	227048468	Henderson the Rain King (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Henderson's African Adventure	Eugene Henderson is a very wealthy, middle aged pig farmer who believes that he has led a very uneventful and, by his own lights, wasted life. Henderson regrets that he has always been in the process of \\"becoming,\\" never arriving at a permanent state of \\"being.\\" To turn his life around, Henderson decides to travel to Africa without his younger, attractive second wife, Lily accompanying him. He hopes to quell his insatiable restlessness and his obsessive thoughts of \\"I want, I want.\\"<br />The reader learns that Henderson is an arrogant, stubborn, and often foolish man, given to fits of rage and self-pity. He threatens to shoot a tenant's cat that is constantly going astray. While in Africa, Henderson's attempts to ameliorate a village's \\"frog problem\\" ends in disaster. He travels to another village where in a feat of strength he achieves a miracle and becomes the king's friend and right hand man. King Dahfu, who Henderson greatly admires, grants Henderson the special title of Sungo.  Through King Dahfu's encouragement Henderson learns a great deal about himself and his untapped potential.<br />If I had a problem with the book it was that I was never sure whether the king and especially the women around him were not poking fun at Henderson. He often appeared to be \\"Henderson the Clown\\" rather than \\"Henderson the Rain King.\\" The author had Henderson dress in a baffoonish-like costume, with a silly pith helmet on top of his head. What is certain is that the Eugene Henderson at the end of the book is a far different person than at the beginning.	2003-03-07
US	44581654	R2SSA708TL6G7Z	0316921173	669738240	Infinite Jest: A Novel	Books	5	109	128	N	N	Infinitely Entertaining	It is a daunting task to review this novel.  The text is 981 pages long and the end notes close to 100 pages long. The book is also quite heavy.  My almost continuous need to check these notes kept interrupting the flow of the novel, but necessarily filled in lots of the details of its characters' family backgrounds, historical facts and fictions, and Mr. Wallace's infinite knowledge of myriad pharmaceutical products mentioned in the novel.  _Infinite Jest_ is as complex and dense as it is entertaining, funny, horrifying, painful, bizarre, and at times graphically nauseating and hallucinatory.  <br />It is the Year of the Depends Adult Undergarment.  By the beginning of the 21st century time ceased to be designated chronologically, but began being named for well-known products on the market, e.g. Trial Size Dove Bar, etc.  The setting is the Organization of North American Nations (O.N.A.N. [ha, ha, ha]), no longer the U.S., Canada, and Mexico.  The big annual holiday celebration is Interdependence Day.  From time to time the book is populated by wheelchair bound, legless Quebecois terrorists who want Quebec to break away from O.N.A.N.  Their story, told in some detail, is extremely odd and mind boggling to say the least.<br />The cornerstone of the novel concerns the characters associated with Enfield Tennis Academy, a training school for young tennis prodigies.  The head was formerly the late James O. Incandenza (called \\"Himself\\" and \\"The Stork\\" by his sons), who also dabbled in experimental film making, his wife Avril (called \\"The Moms\\" by her sons), and their three sons, Orin (football star), Mario (a gentle dwarf and like his father, a film maker), and Hal (the youngest, but extraordinarily brilliant and drug addicted).  Some of Hal's descriptions of his late father's story are bizarre but incredibly funny!<br />In my opinion the hero of _Infinite Jest_ is Don Gately. He is a formerly heavily drug addicted, but currently seriously sober staff counselor at EnnetHouse, a residential home, near Boston, for individuals suffering from drug and alcohol problems.  Here is a man who formerly financed his habit through robbery, burglary, and other illegal money making schemes, who is justly beloved by Ennet House occupants.  Gately is the \\"Christ figure\\" of the book who suffers for the various transgressions of others.  Toward the end of the book a \\"victim\\" of one of Gately's past shennanigans pays tribute to him.<br />_Infinite Jest_ can be a slow read (it took me several months to complete the book) because in addition to its length it is rarely told in a conventional narrative form.  I also found myself at times zipping through all the strange, but delightfully recited situations and characterizations.  To be enjoyed one must be patient with it and allow oneself to go with its relentless flow.  If it is not already, _Infinite Jest_ is destined to become one of the world's great classics.	2003-02-20
US	44581654	R2D0UW5FVSC0K0	0553211587	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Mark Twain's Tale of Deception and Mother Love	The trouble in the antebellum town of Dawson's Landing began when a female slave, Roxy, who was one-eighth black, decided to switch the clothing and the identities of her son (one-sixteenth black) with that of her inattentive master's son. Both boys bore a striking resemblance to each other. As in Toni Morrison's _Beloved_ out of love for her child, Roxy wanted to save her son from the agonies of growing up a slave. The consequences of Roxy's act proved devastating.<br />_Puddn'head Wilson_ ably satirizes the mentality of small town America as well as a system that supported the belief that one drop of \\"Negro blood\\" determined whether someone would be slave or free. Mark Twain showed how people could ignorantly deceive themselves into believing that someone was \\"white\\" or \\"black\\" just because everyone said it was so and that a man as brilliant as David Wilson, an attorney who found it nearly impossible to find work in his chosen field, could be labeled a \\"pudd'nhead\\" just because towns-people failed to understand a witty remark that he made. It was Wilson's pioneering work in forensics that helped him to solve the murder of a prominent citizen of Dawson's Landing and which deservedly salvaged his reputation by the book's end.	2002-11-11
US	44581654	R1G3Z5APZC998D	0151002517	787923440	Blindness	Books	5	1	3	N	N	A Haunting Masterpiece	People have on occasion posed the question to me that if I absolutely had to choose, would I rather be deaf or blind. While being deaf must be awful, nothing to me could be more horrible that being incapable of experiencing the world around me, not being able to read a book or to enjoy the movies, to be shut off from beauty, to be suddenly helpless and totally dependent on others. This is the world that Jose Saramago creates in _Blindness_, a stunning, haunting, and often horrifying work where everyone eventually goes blind, seemingly from some sort of contagion of unknown origin. Everything that was formerly working and that everyone took for granted (e.g. electricity) grinds to a halt. The book contains scenes of unspeakable images. While reading _Blindness_ I could not help thinking of the horror classic, \\"Night of the Living Dead,\\" where the dead aimlessly wander around preying on the fearful living. In _Blindness_ it is the blind, however, who are the victims, warehoused in an ever-crowding mental asylum where various horrors are committed by the guards and even by some of the blind. There is no act of degradation that will not be committed on others when food becomes virtually non-existent.<br />Saramago does a very simple and wonderfully descriptive thing: rather than give his characters names, he matter of factly calls them the doctor, the doctor's wife, the first blind man and his wife, the girl with the dark glasses, the old man with the black eyepatch and the boy with the squint. The doctor's wife is the only character who amazingly retains her sight. She selflessly acts as the eyes for the rest of the characters in the book. Then there is the dog of tears, who acts as the comforter and protector of the doctor's wife.<br />While reading this magnificent and very disturbing book, I often felt the urge to stop people on the street and beg them to purchase and to read this book. I can think of no higher praise for a work of literature.	2002-11-05
US	44581654	RKIB8GOXNRKZ1	0140186417	315542328	In Dubious Battle (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A history of the working men's struggle	Efforts of workers in this country to organize and to fight for fair wages and decent working conditions have been long and extremely arduous. The history of the labor movement has been fraught with violence and bloodshed. It was not until Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal that Congress passed laws allowing workers to organize and to strike for the conditions which should have been rightfully theirs all along.<br />Set in California in the 1930s, _In Dubious Battle_ accurately depicts individuals who strike when the owners of the orchard in which they pick apples decide to reduce their pay. The book documents these workers' extreme poverty and hunger, as well as their fears of bodily harm or even death at the hands vigilantes and police with whom they must contend during the strike. Their leaders, some of whom are on the extreme left political fringes, are men of fervor and dedication who are willing to sacrifice their own lives in the struggle. Steinbeck who often wrote of the sufferings of the common people, to his credit, presents a balanced portrait of these men. Bullying unarmed strikers into a fighting frenzy against men who possess deadly weapons, exploiting the martyrs in their ranks, and stealthily committing arson as methods of gaining them sympathy, were considered ethical acts that justified their worthy ends. One of the book's great strengths was its non-fictional, documentary feel. Admittedly, Steinbeck's matter of fact approach and dialogue sometimes dulled the book's dramatic impact. On the whole, though, I felt as if I were living amongst very realistic people, experiencing their disappointments fighting a dubious battle in an ultimately successful war for economic freedom of all working people.	2002-10-24
US	44581654	R1MBQSOIY2NTL2	0452264790	198660077	Tar Baby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Black And White And A Whole Lot More	_Tar Baby_ tells of the relationships of a wealthy white couple, Valerian and his wife, Margaret, and a black couple, Sydney and Onadine, who have been their servants for many years. The setting is a manor on an island in the Caribbean. One of the subplots concerns Margaret's tortured relationship with her estranged son, Michael. Onadine shares a terrible secret with Margaret concerning the son.<br />Adding to the novel's complexity is the black couple's beautiful niece, Jadine, who lives with them and who has received an education at the Sorbonne, paid for in entirety by Valerian. Jadine finds herself torn between the black world and the white world, fitting into neither. To further complicate matters, Jadine later falls in love with a handsome black man who is called \\"Son,\\" among other names, who has hidden himself in one of Margaret's closets after jumping ship. He is also on the lam due to his previous commission of a foolish crime of passion. Realizing her potential, Jadine is frightened of being trapped, like the limited, poorly educated, dirt poor women whom she meets while on an extended visit to Son's friends and family in Florida. Jadine is suffocating in this atmosphere, and is particularly haunted at night by obesssive thoughts of the women. To Jadine, Son will always remain their \\"son,\\" an ignorant and irresponsible child, without any direction in life.<br />This deliciously complex novel of race, family, and above all, human relations, could only have been done justice by writer of the caliber and sensitivity of a Toni Morrison. Ms. Morrison, an African-American and a woman, is able to find the nuances and subtleties inherent in the black experience that someone else would have difficulty understanding. _Tar Baby_ is a triumph in every way.	2002-10-14
US	44581654	R1CA0NIFHGXO87	0553348981	919939441	Jitterbug Perfume	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Elixir Of Life	_Jitterbug Perfume_ is Tom Robbins' droll, absurdist, and often hallucinatory vision of man's continual quest for eternal youth and immortality. Wiggs Dannyboy, a Timothy Leary-like man (with an Irish brogue which keeps fading in and out) theorizes that humans have evolved from the brutish reptile, to the higher level mammal, to finally the highest plane of all: flower loving creatures, motivated by their olifactory powers, who no longer believe in violence and war. He hypothesizes that people with the greatest longevity have, among other traits, abolished death and dying from their lexicon. He also gives strong credence to the restorative powers of flowers and other odors. Dannyboy utilizes as his paragon Alobar, a former king, whom he meets while both of them are serving time in prison. Both Alobar and his equally youthful wife, Kudra, have already been living a thousand years and both, in their earlier years, escaped execution: King Alobar due to showing signs of aging and Kudra, narrowingly escaping ritual burning because of the death of her first husband. A Parisian perfumer and a New Orleans perfume retailer hope to recreate the scintillating, elusive, and soon to prove very significant odor of the few drops of perfume (formulated by Kudra many years before) still remaining in an ancient and exotic bottle that was recently retrieved from the sea, and which had the likeness of Pan, the Greek God of the woodlands and the flocks on it.<br />Tom Robbins works on a vast canvas. The novel begins in Europe during the Dark Ages, then journeys to India, then back to Bohemia. The contemporary sections of the book transport the reader to Paris and New Orleans and back. The author deftly recounts the various myths and legends of ancient times related to love, sex, longevity, and the negative impact of religious influences. Pan figures strongly throughout the book, although Pan has been slowly fading from existence due to the public's loss of interest in him. In the old days Pan had an allegedly stimulating sexual affect on those he passed by while serenading them on his flute. The final irony is that although Pan eventually fades altogether in the modern world, his influence still remains strong, as does the desire to enhance one's youthfulness and sexual attraction.ays Pan had an allegedly stimulating sexual affect on those he passed by while serenading them on his flute. The final irony is that although Pan eventually fades altogether in the modern world, his influence still remains strong, as does the desire to enhance one's youthfulness and sexual attraction.	2002-10-03
US	44581654	R3ON5QIFE1RNVF	055321263X	115882645	The Woman in White (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A mystery novel to die for	Count Fosco--Isidor Ottavio Baldassare Fosco, Count of the Holy Roman Empire, etc.--is as charming and likable a villain as one is likely to meet in literature. This is a brilliant and talented man of the world, a gentle animal lover who raises birds and treats his pet white mice as if they were his children. Count Fosco is also a scheming, cunning and avaricious man, who together with his friend, Sir Percival Glyde, conspire to ruin the lovely Laura Fairlie, who eventually becomes Lady Glyde.<br />_The Woman In White_ is a wonderfully written gothic mystery novel, a romance that is deeply atmospheric with richly developed characters. Each section of the novel is narrated by the participants in this complex yet incredibly involving book, the principals being Walter Hartright, a drawing instructor whose heart is always in the right place, and Marian Holcombe, Lady Glyde's loyal and loving half-sister. And, of course, there is the elusive, ill-fated Anne Catherick, \\"the woman in white,\\"  shrouded in mystery, and the link between Laura Failie (and her identity) and the malevolent machinations of Count Fosco and of Percival Glyde, who is desperate to protect his \\"Secret\\" at all costs.<br />Despite some unresolved loose ends, I was never less than completely immersed in this extraordinary story of treachery, betrayal, but more importantly sisterly fealty and devotion.	2002-09-21
US	44581654	RPSF1UBOA8BUM	0440004462	317838266	Barbary Shore	Books	2	3	6	N	N	A good idea gone awry	McLeod is a man with a shady past. A former Communist Party official, he is now residing in a rooming house in Brooklyn just after the end of World War II. McLeod is being tailed by Hollingsworth, also a resident in the same establishment. Hollingsworth suspects McLeod of too many things and desires to interrogate and entrap him. The novel's narrator, Mike Lovett, is a disabled war veteran suffering from a severe case of amnesia. He just wants to be left alone to write his novel. He instead becomes entangled with these two gentlemen as well as with the lonely, slatternly landlady and her annoying little daughter. A down-and-out alcoholic woman also rents a room here. She also knows of some horrible secrets in McLeod's past and aims to exact some measure of revenge on him.<br />So goes Norman Mailer's novel of cold war intrigue. The premise of a man's radical past catching up with him and his desparate attempts to come to terms with the choices he made in his life is a good one. However, Mailer deals with these issues and his characters in an overly shallow manner. The characters come across more like types, e.g. the earnest radical socialist, rather than like real people. Mike, whose personality is largely one-dimensional, is merely a plot device, a medium through whom the other characters interact. Mike's character could easily have been eliminated. The story could have been far more interesting and even devastating were it told from the point of view of McLeod. What I believe Mailer meant to be the centerpiece of the novel, McLeod's lengthy speech on the nature of revolutionary socialism vs. state capitalism, is merely boring and flat. Too bad Mailer could not follow through on an otherwise excellent germ of an idea.	2002-08-25
US	44581654	RLF0JU3LMM4DL	0140187855	573937082	The Certificate (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Portrait Of An Aspiring Writer As A Young Man	David Bendiger is at a crossroad in his life. He is 18-1/2 and like his brother, Ahron, he aspires to be a writer. David also has the opportunity to obtain a certificate of passage to Palestine, a British protectorate in 1922. The only catch is that if he had a wife entry into Palestine would be that much easier. David enters into a fictitious marriage with Minna, a woman from a well-to-do Jewish family living in Warsaw. Minna plans to reunite with her adored fiance in Palestine and then dissolve her union with David. Needless to say problems ensue.<br />_The Certificate_ is a splendid and engrossing story full of unexpected plot turns. It captures that moment in a young man's life when he is just becoming an adult and must make important decisions that will affect the rest of his life. In David's case he chooses to begin his writing career by endeavoring to have some of his writings published. Newly discovering women, he ponders about the kind of woman he will eventually marry. The son of an orthodox rabbi, David also faces a challenge to his Judaism and his belief in God when he meets two Communist women at a rooming house, as well as from Minna, a self-denying Jew. Even his beliefs and his value system, much of these derived from Spinoza, are shaken. Whether David finds a new life in Palestine or takes an altogether different road may be discovered by reading this small, but important and engrossing work in the I.B. Singer canon.	2002-08-13
US	44581654	RFCZYN29ZWZYB	0679721886	892228642	The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Memoir of a Chinese-American Woman	_The Woman Warrior_ tells of the life of a young Chinese-American woman finding her voice amidst the \\"story-talkers\\" and the ghosts of her girlhood. These story-talkers consist mostly of her mother and other female relatives. They speak to her of an aunt living in China who was shamed into drowning herself and her baby. Another tale concerns a girl in the China of long ago raised by an elderly couple to become a warrior and swordswoman, who later returns to her village to protect the peasantry from the injustices of the aristocracy. The narrator's mother recounts to her of growing up and later becoming a doctor in China under the oppressive Communist regime. In my favorite section of the book, the narrator speaks of her mother's efforts to assist her elderly sister emigrate to America to reunite her with her husband who abandoned her years earlier to marry a much younger woman. What provides much of the poignance and pathos of this section are the vast cultural and personality differences of the timid Chinese emigree and that of the much more aggressive and intrusive Chinese-American sister. The narrator later compares the attitudes and personalities of the more rambunctous white, black, and Mexican school children with those of the silent Chinese immigrant children, especially the girls. The narrator cruelly taunts an overly shy and taciturn female classmate, hoping to force her out of her silence. Bucking tradition, later on she rebels against what she perceives are her parents' plans for marrying her off.<br />While the narrator's methods for achieving her goals may be criticized, I disagree with those reviewers who label her as a man-hater. Hers is the struggle of a young girl eventually finding her own voice and triumphing despite growing up in a traditional, male dominated society. The last few pages of the book which describes a young Chinese mother who triumphs despite her living in isolation with her children amongst a campful of men is incredibly beautiful.	2002-08-06
US	44581654	R3QK0JKQE8VXH5	073662323X	810767101	White Jazz	Books	1	3	9	N	N	The Los Angeles Police Department Cesspool	Everybody in the L.A. Police Department (circa 1958) from top to bottom, from the Chief of Police to the cop on his beat, is crooked. A feature columnist at the scandal sheet, \\"Hush Hush Magazine,\\" has been telling that to his reading public for years, but no one has taken particular notice until the U.S. Attorney's Office started investigating the L.A.P.D. <br />According to _White Jazz_, the L.A.P.D., crime boss Mickey Cohen (now a federal witness), Howard Hughes, and others are involved in bootlegging, illegal slot machines, narcotics peddling, burglary, sale of stolen merchandise, murder, blackmail and  shaking down homosexuals. There is even a little \\"wife swapping\\" and incest thrown in for color. There is no hero in this book or anyone I even remotely liked or cared for. Meanwhile, the body count keeps mounting from chapter to chapter. To make wading through this vast cesspool even more unpleasant, intersperced throughout _White Jazz_ are the corrupt attorney/police Lieutenant Dave Klein's incoherent, private thoughts, as if the plot were not incomprehensible enough.	2002-07-29
US	44581654	R3I3L8UVVM1CVH	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	4	5	13	N	N	The old west's killing fields	_Blood Meridian_ concerns a bunch of drifters who contract with the government to kill and then scalp Indians for a profit. The setting is the Texas-Mexican border in the 1850's. A great deal of the book presents scene after scene of senseless massacring of innocent men, women and children who have the misfortune to be Apache Indians. Mexicans who get in the way are not exempt from these murdering marrauders.    We are introduced to the book's two major characters: a teenage boy, referred to throughout the book as \\"the kid\\" and \\"the judge,\\" neither of whom has a name. The kid runs away from home at the age of fourteen and eventually joins up with this miserable gang. \\"He can neither read nor write and in him broods already a taste for mindless violence.\\" The judge is described as a large, totally hairless man, who despite his intelligence and a tendency to philosophize, is a completely violent and evil man, totally without conscience. He takes joy in gratuitously killing a child and defenseless animals. The book is filled with such endless scenes of carnage and destruction. Carcasses and bones of men and animals are shown strewn throughout the landscape as if the old west were one huge graveyard.    Years later the kid and the judge (accidentally?) meet up with one another in a bar. What ensues is a veritable \\"dance with the Devil\\"  with a fiddler providing accompaniment.  It is a chilling ending that defines what the old west was often about.	2002-07-19
US	44581654	R3G0026DGNMOQF	0394757661	284972551	Playback	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Run of the mill Chandler	Why do I love Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe novels so much?  I love them for Marlowe's edgy, wisecracking comments that drive its recipients mad.  I love the gorgeous, incendiary women who  linger just a bit on this side of evil.  I love the twisty and turny plots and Marlowe's dogged search for the truth. In a world full of liars and crooks one can always depend upon Philip Marlowe's steely honesty and integrity.  He is never in it for the money.<br />\\"Playback\\" has all of these elements but, unfortunately, in far lesser quantities than in Chandler's other Philip Marlowe books.  In \\"Playback\\" Marlowe is assigned to follow this woman without knowing why and to report back on what he finds out about her.  All the typical plot devices are there, but the results are far less than scintillating and are sometimes rather dull.  If I were to pick out, however, my favorite part of the book it would be Marlowe's conversation with an elderly and infirm man who is staying at a hotel where Marlowe is holed up.  Their discussion about the belief in God is incredibly sharp and extremely relevant to a man of Marlowe's profession.<br />All in all, despite its shortcomings, \\"Playback,\\"  while not top Chandler, is still Philip Marlowe and that can never be bad.	2002-07-07
US	44581654	R3HVO4PS6C6CN6	0449911942	742955457	Rabbit at Rest	Books	4	7	10	N	N	There's Always Something: The Angstrom Saga Continues	This is the final book in John Updike's Harry \\"Rabbit\\" Angstrom tetralogy. It is a good book with much to recommend, particularly the author's interesting fleshing-out of the character of Pru, Harry's daughter-in-law, but the Rabbit saga has clearly run out of steam. Besides spending much time rehashing the events of the earlier three books, the author also tries too hard to cram in all of the current events of the late 1980's as a method of juxtaposing them with those of Harry's personal life.<br /><br />Rabbit, now in his mid-fifties, is enduring a heart condition and the shennanigans of his troubled and irresponsible son, Nelson, who has assumed the management of his late grandfather's automobile dealership. This book concerns the losses one suffers in late middle age: the loss of youth, vigor and health, and with retirement, the loss of one's career together with the sense of usefulness to one's family and to one's self. All these factors trigger a quantum drop in poor Harry's self-esteem.<br /><br />All that is left to Harry Angstrom now are his memories: his childhood home, the good times with his younger sister Mim, and especially the fame he had as a high school basketball jock. In various parts of the book Rabbit is shown reading a book on American history his wife Janice had given to him as a present. It is apt that Harry Angstrom, now a creature of the American past, should spend some of his spare time reading about it. The history of the American man is about the adventures of past heroes or near-heroes, like Harry Angstrom. Rabbit also is seen listening to the news on his car radio or discussing with others the current events of the day. This is the world that has sadly passed Rabbit by.<br /><br />Rabbit, who has largely ignored his doctor's advice to follow a more healthful diet and to exercise more, attempts to redeem himself and to recapture some of his colorful past by shooting baskets with some street kids. The history of Harry Angstrom has now come full circle from the young Harry Angstrom of _Rabbit, Run._ Sometimes one fails to realize that he simply cannot go home again.	2002-07-01
US	44581654	RMXO2ULHA8XM2	0140184945	158590394	The Comedians (Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	76	80	N	N	High drama and human comedy in Haiti	Graham Greene's forte lay in writing novels (and \\"entertainments\\") of political intrigue. I do not know if this master British novelist visited any or all of the countries about which he wrote. Mr. Greene seemed to have considerable knowledge of both the current and near recent political and societal conditions of the countries that formed the backdrop of his books. For example, in _The Comedians_ Mr. Greene shows an unusual grasp of the extreme poverty and deprivation suffered by Haitian people living under Papa Doc Duvalier's corrupt, dictatorial, and totalitarian regime as well as the extreme human rights violations and abuses of Papa Doc's sadistic secret police, the Tontons Macoute. Several characters in the book note with some irony vis-a-vis American foreign policy, that as bad as Papa Doc seems, he is at least a strong anti-Communist.<br />Graham Greene does something very unusual with his major caucasian characters: he gives them very common, non-descript surnames. The reader never learns their first names. The narrator of the novel, an Englishman, is merely called \\"Mr. Brown.\\" He runs a financially deteriorating hotel in Haiti that he inherits from his mother. Like the author, Mr. Brown is a fallen-away Catholic. A British soldier of fortune and con artist who comes to Haiti is simply called Major Jones or just \\"Mr. Jones.\\" His talents consist mainly in charming women and in telling funny jokes. An American couple, named Mr. and Mrs. Smith, come to Haiti hopefully to set up a vegetarian center. Mr. Smith ran in the 1948 U.S. presidential election on the Vegetarian Line. He is derisively referred to as \\"the Presidential Candidate\\" throughout the novel and utilizes this sobriquet as a method of influencing the Duvalier government to approve of his scheme. Graham Greene refers to all of these individuals as \\"comedians\\" because they symbolically wear actors' masks to hide their true natures and to invent persona to deceive people. Alternately, Marcel, Mr. Brown's late mother's black lover who avers that he would have died for her \\"...was no comedian after all. Death is a proof of sincerity.\\"<br />Greene chooses to present these \\"comedians\\" as realistic, flawed human beings. They live on the fringes of life, never participating in the human adventure. But even comedians often have untapped hidden strengths that may be revealed in a crisis. Jones, the Smiths, and Brown eventually prove to be more heroic than they appear on the surface.<br />_The Comedians_ is one of the very best and one of the most heroic novels in Graham Greene's repertoire, and is most highly recommended.	2002-06-12
US	44581654	REWU6JHIRRDBF	0140443282	920770845	Salammbo (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	21	23	N	N	A stirring mixture of war and myth	Flaubert's _Salammbo_ is an often stirring mixture and intertwining of the history of the Punic Wars and of the myths held by the people of ancient Carthage. The novel begins and ends with a banquet held in the gardens of Hamilcar, the Carthaginian leader.  The mercenaries are feasting in these gardens at the beginning and a wedding feast is being held at the end, with an important leader of the Barbarians as \\"the special guest of honor.\\"<br />The book describes in great, often gory detail the horrors and the carnage of war.  The gods must be appeased if there is no food or if the soldiers are dying of thirst.  These rituals  include children being sacrificed with, perhaps, Hamilcar's son being one of the victims.  Cannibilism is an alternative  <BR>to mass starvation.  Torture is the sport of kings and the masses alike.<br />In the middle of all these goings on is Hamilcar's daughter, the lovely and exotically beautiful Salammbo.  Her conniving to recapture the Zaimph from Matho, the Libyan leader of the Barbarians, includes some of the most erotic passage in 19th century literature. Her pet serpent figures very prominently in these scenes.  A priest advises Salammbo that without reobtaining the Zaimph, an important holy relic in their possession, Carthage is doomed to defeat.<br />Having previously read Flaubert's _Madame Bovary_ and _Sentimental Education_, I believed them to be totally different from _Salammbo_, the former two being romantic melodramas and the latter a historic war novel.  This is incorrect.  All three novels focus on a major female character, who for better or for worse, forms key relationships, romantic or otherwise, with the novels' lead male characters, and which ultimately determine the shape and the final outcome of each of these books.  \\"All is fair in love and war\\" may be a cliche, but in _Salammbo_ it becomes the ultimate truth.	2002-06-05
US	44581654	RZNCJPXA57YS	0671644718	300249839	Pinocchio in Venice	Books	5	9	9	N	N	In life there are no happily ever afters	\\"So Pinocchio gets his wish and becomes a real boy. And he lives happily ever after.\\" If only life were like a fairy tale. We would all be loved and protected by our mothers and fathers forever and none of us would ever grow old or suffer the infirmities of aging. Unfortunately, like everyone else, Pinocchio does grow old and may even be dying. Despite having had a successful life in academia in America and having achieved world-wide renown as an art scholar, an author, and as a two time Nobel Prize winner, in his dotage Pinocchio looks back upon a life filled with unhappiness and regret. Unlike the often inaccurate Disney biography, Gepetto, his creator and father, was not a kindly old man, nor did his mother, the blue-haired fairy, keep all the promises she made to him during his boyhood. To add to Pinocchio's agony, various bodily parts and his skin are falling off, his feet had been burnt off in a fire, and his nose is not what it is purported to be. Worst of all, he is once again turning into a piece of wood.<br />In the book Pinocchio is shown returning to his birth place, Venice, and is reunited with his old friends (including two talking dogs) and foes alike. He attends a wild and raucous masked carnival in which he is the guest of honor.<br />Robert Coover is a marvelously imaginative story teller. His use of language and imagery transforms Pinocchio's surroundings into a panorama of grotesque characters and nightmarish situations. Pinocchio is presented not as a puppet, but as a true to life human being of great dignity. He suffers the universal fears of growing old: leaving unfinished business, failures in love, the attending loss of physical and mental powers, and the inevitability of death. All this is realistically and sensitively rendered by Mr. Coover.	2002-05-26
US	44581654	R11004OW9173MV	0192545167	352095135	The Mystery of Edwin Drood (Oxford Illustrated Dickens)	Books	5	37	39	N	N	Drood Is So Good	It is a tribute to Charles Dickens' reputation that to this day this unfinished novel, a mystery no less, still garners such speculation as to who allegedly murdered Edwin Drood.  There are organizations created for the sole purpose of analyzing the novel and to theorizing whom the culprit may have been, if indeed there really was a culprit.  After all, only Drood's watch and his shirt pin are produced, not his body.<br />As in all of Dickens' novels, the characterizations are the thing.  You have the innocent young woman with the somewhat eccentric guardian and his Bob Cratchitlike assistant.  There is the dark, possibly unfairly accused, but hot headed antagonist of Drood.  Then there is Drood's brooding choirmaster uncle, John Jasper, who frequents opium dens, and who may or may not have ulterior motives in his seeking revenge.  Durdles, the stone mason, and a somewhat weird character, provides some chilling comic relief in cemetery scenes with his stone throwing assistant.  There are also the typical Dickensian characters, which includes a snooty older woman, a class conscious, spinsterish school mistress, and in a hilarious restaurant scene, an unappreciated, hard working &quot;flying waiter&quot; and a lazy, wise acre &quot;stationary waiter.&quot; <br />It is a shame that Dickens died before he could complete &quot;Edwin Drood.&quot;  What is here are the beginnings of an exploration of man's dual nature, a journey into &quot;the heart of darkness&quot; so to speak.	2002-05-17
US	44581654	R3T22UTEIDZXCD	0684859114	371330467	Damascus Gate	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Jerusalem: Up Close And Personal	The middle east has often been called \\"The Holy Land,\\" where the world's three great religions--Judaism, Christianity, and Islam--come together.  No where is this more so than in Jerusalem.  It is in this hotbed of conflict and hatred and hope that a Mulligan stew of religious cults, fanatics and their sympathizers, and other individuals of varying interests meet in _Demascus Gate_, Robert Stone's true to life, fascinating, but sometimes unfocused novel.  At the center of the novel is Christopher Lucas, an American journalist who goes to Jerusalem to do research for a book he plans to write about the various religious cults in Jerusalem.  Lucas is the perfect protagonist.  His father, whom he barely knew, was Jewish, his mother was Catholic, and Lucas, himself, was brought up as a Catholic.  Like Cain, this rootless man seems destined to roam the earth, never to find a place to permanently settle.  Lucas meets and becomes romantically involved with Sonia, a comely African-American and Jewish nightclub singer in Tel Aviv.  Sonia is a practicing Sufi, which is an offshoot of Islam.  Lucas and Sonia stumble upon a group of quasi-Jewish fanatics, who may or may not be involved in a plot to bomb and totally destroy Islamic mosques on the Temple Mount.  They naively believe that if this site is totally destroyed a third Temple could be built, therefore attracting the promised Messiah--a \\"built it and He will come\\" type of philosophy.<br />Sonia and others get caught in an Intafada-like riot of Palestinians and utilize a dark, underground labyrinth to escape. These caverns contain the statue of Sabazios, \\"its fingers raised in a gesture of benediction.\\"  This God-like figure was embraced by followers of \\"Zeus and Persephone, or with Hermes Thismegisters and Isis.  Alone he was the Lord of Hosts.\\"  Sabazios was also embraced by Jews and Christians alike.  It is fitting that this figure of universal love and brotherhood should be situated in this crazy-quilt of religious denominations that makes up Jerusalem.<br />In the midst of this harrowingly frightening and realistic melee the author injects some much needed ironic humor.  Lucas teases an elderly Muslim tour director and then jokingly spreads the rumor that the elderly man may be Salman Rushdie, which only adds fuel to the rioters' fire, even though Rushdie's beliefs have little to do with those of this rebellious mob.<br />What fun the great Alfred Hitchcock would have had pulling together into a seamless whole this frequently loose jointed book, which sometimes seems to veer off in different directions.  Hitchcock frequently utilized the theme of an innocent and unknowing man (Christopher Lucas in this book) who is trapped in dire circumstances beyond his control, oftentimes in foreign and exotic locales.  This master film director often chose dark espionage movies to play out this theme.  I also wonder how Hitchcock would have dealt with the character of Janusz Zimmer, the shadowy Israeli operative whose manipulations were central to the outcome of this novel.	2002-05-05
US	44581654	R3I1G6Y3RY210O	0679772669	474206411	In the Skin of a Lion	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Michael Ondaatje's Anti-Hero	As some of the reviewers have said, _In The Skin Of A Lion_ must be read slowly to be truly appreciated, otherwise much of the subtleties of this beautifully written, poetic, and sometimes maddeningly abstract novel will be missed. I usually have no difficulty reading a book while travelling on a train or a bus, but with this book the various distractions made it very difficult to do so. On a number of occasions I found it worthwhile to backtrack to re-read much of what I missed in my first reading.<br />The book, not so much plot driven, acts more as a mood piece on the romances of Patrick Lewis, the main character, as well as painterly images of the Canadian farms and woodlands and then of  workmen's tunnelling under the Great Lakes to build the waterworks which play a very important part in the novel. Then there's the prison escape scene, which may be described as \\"a meditation in blue.\\"<br />When plot and action take over, the story becomes incredibly riveting. It made me proud of those individuals, often times desperate, who have risked probable prison terms, and even their lives, to fight for the rights of the little people who built the world's great architectural structures against the millionaires who exploited these workers for financial gain. Patrick Lewis (and Caravaggio, who later appears in _The English Patient_) is such a man, and he is the novel's true heroic anti-hero.	2002-04-15
US	44581654	R3UWHF29FF1ANJ	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Meet The Lamberts	The Lambert family consists of five people: Enid, her husband Alfred, and their three children, Gary, Chip, and Denise. Alfred has developed Parkinson's disease and his physical and mental health is steadily and tragically deteriorating. Enid wants the entire family to get together for one last Christmas at their home in St. Jude, presumably before Alfred dies. Enid originally wanted Gary to bring along his wife and children for Christmas, but it is apt that he eventually goes by himself. After all, this book begins and ends with the immediate family.<br />_The Corrections_ concerns the interrelationships of these five characters. The books also gets into the individual lives of the three grown children and with Enid's increasing inability to cope with Alfred's illness. What I found particularly interesting were the various individual relations and alliances that form within this family, including the expectations each family member has for the other. Gary is Enid's favorite, and as a child endeavors to work hard to please his mother. Chip, the intellectual and later errant middle son, is Alfred's favorite, and the only one that Alfred is able to trust after he becomes ill. Alfred is seen calling Chip's name for help, even when Chip is not present. Both parents are concerned for Denise, who is the youngest and their only daughter. Denise becomes a talented chef and restauranteur. Enid is afraid that Denise is having an affair with a married man and that she will never marry. Denise has other ideas.<br />This is not just another book about a dysfunctional family with quirky characters. Each family member is well-drawn, three dimensional, and flawed. I got to know and love each of them for their faults, with the possible exception of the money grubbing Gary. I especially liked Alfred, whose plight, although quite sad, is also inadvertently funny, as his illness gets him into a number of serio-comic situations. Alfred is a very bright man with the potential, unfortunately unrealized, to be the tool of his own cure.<br />By the book's end, I was convinced that any of the Lamberts could have been a member of my own family.	2002-04-09
US	44581654	R18699VX0AF0FV	0140390774	202881368	The Marble Faun: or, The Romance of Monte Beni (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	29	32	N	N	Innocents Abroad	_The Marble Faun_ concerns three young American artists, Miriam, Hilda and Kenyon, and their Italian faun-like friend, Donatello, whose characters are transformed while on their stay in Rome, the Eternal City. _The Marble Faun_ is very reminiscent of Henry James' novella, \\"Daisy Miller,\\" where a young and innocent American woman falls under the deleterious spell of this European city. In fact, Hilda, while visiting one of its art galleries is warned by an old German artist to go back to America soon \\"or you will go never more...The air has been breathed too often, in so many thousand years, and is not wholesome for a little foreign flower like you, my child, a delicate wood-anemone from the western forest-land.\\" Hilda witnesses a serious crime being committed by Donatello and Miriam (supposedly, neither of whom would have done so were it not for the evil influence of Rome's atmosphere) and becomes overwhelmed from ensuing feelings of guilt and depression. Despite her Puritan heritage, Hilda is compelled to unburden herself by seeking confession with a Catholic priest, who suggests that she convert to Catholicism. Hilda seriously considers, but decides to resist this transformation.<br />Hawthorne spends much of the novel in describing in detail Rome's architecture, its art galleries, churches, and its many other landmarks and shrines. When relevant to the story--especially in the author's depiction of the catacombs (from whence Miriam and Donatello commit their unforgivable deed), sunlight streaming through a church's stained glass windows, the extinction of a legendary flame standing before a lofty shrine, and the majestic bronze statue of a pope stretching out his hand in benediction--the effects are quite wonderful. However, a sizable portion of the novel is merely endless travelogue, which seriously detracts from this fairly well-told gothic romance. I did very much like Hawthorne's portrayal of carnival-time in Rome towards the end of the book, and the author'sconversation with Kenyon and Hilda at the novel's conclusion is quite charming.	2002-03-16
US	44581654	R2AVUFFF9RW0RE	0876859260	10211078	Pulp	Books	2	2	6	N	N	It's A Horrible Life	_Pulp_ is Charles Bukowski's final novel, probably summing up his extremely pessimistic view of life. According to Bukowski, the world is filled almost completely with con artists, women who cheat on their husbands, and people who would do whatever was necessary, even murder, to obtain the all mighty dollar. Everyone else is probably just too stupid to know otherwise.<br />Los Angeles private investigator, Nick Belane, a dispeptic Phillip Marlowe-like individual who stands in for the author in the novel, is told by one of the female characters in the book how miserable he world is: \\"The earth. Smog, murder, the poisoned air, the poisoned food, the hatred, the hopelessness, everything...It's so sad, no wonder you drink so much.\\"<br />_Pulp_'s coda bring to mind Gustave Flaubert's novella, \\"A Simple Heart,\\" in which a beautiful bird hovers over a dying character, promising a glorious and wonderful hereafter, after a life full of misery and pain.  Unfortunately, this misanthropic book left a very sour taste in my mouth.	2002-02-27
US	44581654	R21ETM7V4NL60T	0141180102	806862906	Omensetter's Luck (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	37	42	N	Y	Discovering a gem hidden amidst a huge mess	I am very glad that I decided to read _Omensetter's Luck_ all the way through.  Hidden in a plethora of incoherent sentences, incomprehensible metaphors and silly rhymes, is a very worthwhile story of two men: Brackett Omensetter, who migrates to Gilean, Ohio with his wife and small children, and the Reverend Jethro Furber, who is the town's minister.  Furber suffers from deeply repressed guilt, fear, and resentment; his behavior occasionally borders on the psychotic.  In his section of the book, Furber gives (or does he imagine giving?) a lengthy church sermon.  Although the sermon is fascinatingly self-revealing, I continuously found myself getting lost in Furber's incoherent word salad.  I decided, however, to stay with the book, despite the repeated temptation to put it down.  As I continued to read, and to my very pleasant surprise, I discovered Omensetter to be a man of great decency and selflessness.  He stands head and shoulders above a town full of petty people, many of whom were jealous and resentful of Omensetter's legendary \\"luck.\\"  Gilean's denizens even attributed luck to Omensetter's ability to save miraculously the life of a man dying of lockjaw, contracted from a serious accident.  Practically none of the townspeople stand by Omensetter when, later, he is unjustly accused of being responsible for the hanging death of this same man.<br />Everything comes together nicely in the last one hundred pages of the book.  I credit William Gass' well-paced, extremely realistic dialogue for helping to accomplish this feat, which I would have otherwise considered impossible had I mistakenly decided not to stick with this flawed, but must-read book.	2002-02-22
US	44581654	R2JIB8451WS0NY	0385490445	107805179	Alias Grace: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Crime and Punishment vs. Punishment Without Crime?	A sizable part of _Alias Grace_ is based on Susana Moodie's mid-19th century book about Grace Marks, who was convicted along with fellow servant, James McDermott, for the murders of Thomas Kinnear, and his housekeeper and mistress, Nancy Montgomery. Moodie met Grace Marks while the former was visiting the insane asylum and then the penitentary where Marks was later incarcerated. McDermott was hanged for his part in the murders; Marks was also condemned to die in the same manner, but her sentence was commuted to life in prison through the efforts of her attorney and of private citizens' groups who believed in her innocence. Much of Grace Marks' story is told by her, through a series of post-conviction interviews with Dr. Simon Jordan, a medical doctor who was a pioneer in the enlightened treatment of the mentally ill. Dr. Jordan is sponsored by a Reverend Verringer, who heads one of these groups.    What makes Margaret Atwood's novel so compelling is that much of what happens in _Alias Grace_ is based on true accounts of Grace Marks' life, which is seamlessly and expertly adapted by Ms. Atwood. She readily admits in her afterword \\"where hints and outright gaps exist in the record, I felt free to invent.\\" Ms. Atwood is a master storyteller. Her Grace Marks is very much a three-dimensional, flesh and blood 19th century woman. The public's beliefs about her parallel many of the widely held views of females of her time. While many imagined Marks to be weak and easily led astray by a stronger and more wiley older man (Marks was only 16 at the time of the murders), others saw Marks as an evil and jealous temptress who entrapped a gullible man into the killings. Atwood also sensitively reveals the plight of many young girls of the period who suddenly become motherless and due to their changed cicumstances take positions as servants to the wealthy, or worse yet, are forced into prostitution. The alternative was pennilessness and ultimate starvation. Then there are those young women who fell prey to a \\"gentleman's\\" amorous demands, some of whom promised marriage, only to later abandon them. A truly heartbreaking episode in the book concerns Mary Whitney, a co-worker and close friend of Grace Marks, who dies as a result of a shoddily performed abortion.    By the end of the book the reader is given no definitive answer as to whether Marks was directly involved in either of the two murders. Her complexity is further revealed in the section of the book where a doctor (of the jack-of-all-trades type) puts her under hypnosis and another aspect of her personality is revealed. Grace Marks is confirmed as a woman of many sides, capable of acts of goodness, compassion--but murder? Read the very highly recommended book and then decide for yourself.	2002-02-12
US	44581654	R11HNMZCDF6YC2	0140094563	976214949	The Western Lands	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Burroughs' Inferno	While William S. Burroughs never makes it clear specifically where or what \\"The Western Lands\\" are, what is clear is his hellish vision of the journey there.  He relates to us that \\"All the filth and horror, fear, hate disease and death of human history flows between you and the Western Lands.\\"  Utilizing ancient Egyptian and pseudo-Egyptian religious rituals and philosophy, Burroughs relentlessly describe scenes of disease, poisonings, impalings, decapitations and general mayhem and destruction while on the excursion to the promised lands. Religion is lampooned relentlessly by Burroughs as a force of intolerence and evil.  A sizable section of the book is devoted to the maschinations of the dreaded centipede.  All anyone would ever want to know (or not want to know) about this peculiar arthropod is here.  A certain type of corn, enriched by the blue rays of the moon and then harvested and eaten by sizable populations, causes unimagable and extremely unappetizing physical reactions.  <br />Yet there is a certain beauty and poetry in Burroughs' horrific imagery, which, I believe, achieves a level of art.  \\"The Western Lands\\" is THE latter 20th century version of \\"Dante's Inferno.\\"  The old writer mentioned in the beginning and in the end of the book and who lives in a boxcar by the river may, perhaps, be William S. Burroughs himself. Those somewhat familiar with Burroughs' life are aware of his drug addictions and that he probably went through many of the horrific experiences described in the book.  The journeyings to the \\"Western Lands\\" may have been his intense struggles towards recovery and sobriety.  His classic, \\"Naked Lunch,\\" describes Burroughs' reveries while coming off heroin addiction in a rehab clinic.  Incredible as it may seem, Burroughs theme is ultimately positive.  He tells us that one has cannot see heaven, and achieve redemption, unless one has constantly faced death, intense fear, and has literally lived through Hell.	2002-01-27
US	44581654	RVN6TJKHLGUPZ	0446403636	861828758	The Holy Thief	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Medieval Mystery	Ellis Peters creates a realistic atmosphere of medieval England, circa 1144 AD.  What makes this otherwise run of the mill murder mystery with paper thin characterizations worthwhile is Ms. Peters' juxtaposition of religion and civil law to solve the crimes.  The story involves the theft of the remains of the Welsh Saint Winifred during a flood and the seemingly related subsequent murder of young Brother Anselm.  Law officer Hugh Beringar is very careful not to tread on the religious customs and priorities involved in &quot;the holy theft&quot; of this beloved saint. Hugh leaves it to the brotherhood to mete out the punishment for this type of felony. Otherwise, Brother Cadfael and the other denizens of the abbey at Shrewsbury work hand in hand with the civil authorities to bring the culprits to justice.<br />Adding to the story element of mystery and mysticism are some of the rituals utilized by the churchmen to help them in solving the crimes.  A particularly engaging episode concerns their random selection of passages from the New Testament to guide them in their quest.  Ms. Peters also makes colorful reference to blackthorn leaves in Brother Cadfael's efforts to resolve the mystery.	2002-01-18
US	44581654	R1L9404LAIVYVI	0140147551	988777649	The Deptford Trilogy: Fifth Business; The Manticore; World of Wonders	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Magical Realism That's Pure Magic	It all starts many years ago in Deptford, a small village in Canada. Young Percy Boyd (Boy) Staunton throws a snowball containing a stone at his boyhood friend Dunstan Ramsay, which misses. It instead hits the head of the wife of a dour and fanatically religious minister, which causes her to give birth prematurely to a son, whom she names Paul. She eventually goes insane.<br />As a very young boy, Paul Dempster learns from Dunstan Ramsay the rudiments of card tricks and other such conjurings. Believed to have run away with the circus, Paul was instead abducted and enslaved by Willard, a carnival magician. Paul hones his skills with cards to do extraordinary tricks with them at the carnival while hidden inside a hollow, mechanical dummy. <br />Ramsay, while travelling in Europe many years later to do research on saints (who of whom he considers Paul's mother), discovers Paul Dempster performing in his own magic show. Paul now takes the name \\"Magnus Eisengrim.\\" David Staunton, who is Boy Staunton's son, attends one of Eisengrim's shows, where he loudly asks the mystical \\"Brazenhead\\" that is on the stage, \\"Who killed Boy Staunton?,\\" who had died after his car mysteriously plunged into a lake.<br />Although this is mystery is logically resolved at the end, it is really no matter. This is basically the story of how one seemingly minor incident, in this case the errant snowball, can have the power to alter people's destinies. Were it not for this snowball, Paul Dempster would not have been prematurely born and would have in all probability become a Baptist minister, like his father, instead of the great, but mysterious Magnus Eisengrim, as well as the other identities he had previously taken on. In one such previous personna, he joins a repertoire company as an understudy to the great actor, Sir John Tresize.<br />Robertson Davies' writing style is pure enchantment. This is particularly apparent in his description of Sorgenfrei castle in Switzerland where Paul is hired torepair the broken toys of an aristocratic industrialist. It is in Sorgenfrei where Magnus meets Liesl, the strange, grotesque, and ape-like granddaughter of the industrialist. Magnus works magic and transforms Liesl, who later becomes his show partner and his lover, into a woman of bearing and substance. <br />Robertson Davies spends a great deal of time plumbing the depths of the personalities of each of the three book's major characters, and especially that of the soul of Paul Dempster/Magnus Eisengrim. The results are never less than fascinating. The entire second book, \\"The Manticore,\\" concerns itself with the psychoanalysis of David Staunton, who must come to terms with his alcoholism and deep-seated problems related to his father. Eisengrim, which means \\"wolf,\\" is said by one of the book's characters, to have studied Sir John's character to such an extent that he \\"ate\\" and became him.<br />One common, and often cliched, criticism of long and episodic novels such as \\"The Deptford Trilogy,\\" is that the whole, sadly, does not equal the sum of its many parts. These three books-- which must be read as a whole rather than as separate, independent novels--by examining the many sides, personalities, and roles of the extraordinarily complicated and amazing Paul Dempster/Magnus Eisengrim, richly and triumphently achieves a whole that much more than exceeds the sum of its parts.	2002-01-10
US	44581654	R2JCUYK4I2FQG2	0679772596	369774091	Sabbath's Theater	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A brilliant study of a man's loneliness	Mickey Sabbath, a former puppeteer, now 64 years old, suffers from extreme loneliness and depression. Unlike most people, Mickey has had to cope with loss on a grand scale: his older brother, Morton, dies when his plane is shot down by the Japanese in World War II; his mother suffer a nervous breakdown after this tragedy, and is so distracted that she can no longer communicate with her remaining son; Mickey's first wife, Nikki, suddenly disappears without a trace; Mickey's married, but loving Serbo-Croatian mistress, Drenka, succumbs to cancer; Mickey is dismissed as a college professor after a sex scandal involving one of his female students; he then loses his second wife, Roseanna, who chooses to dedicate her life completely to the AA recovery process.<br />This brilliantly developed character study strongly suggests that some people become morbidly immersed in death and also may utilize sex as the primary means of escaping from loneliness. Mickey Sabbath, who is about to attend the funeral of a friend who has committed suicide, also contemplates suicide as a way of being reunited with deceased family members  He hopes to reclaim the security he once had and lost. Mickey also uses sex and sexual fantasy, as many people do in actual life, to escape from an angst ridden existence. Some of the funniest, most erotic, but also most pathetic scenes in the book occur when Mickey and former rival suitors of Drenka visit her gravesite.<br />Although the novel presents Mickey indulging in a number of sexual activities that may be viewed as kinky or even depraved, I believe that it would be a mistake to label Mickey Sabbath as merely &quot;a dirty old man.&quot; In this sad, but very entertaining book, Mickey's plight merely represents the universal need for developing closeness with another human being. His extreme behavior is the self-destructive behavior of those in our society most starved for love and affection.	2001-12-08
US	44581654	R1VGIXWXJ4MLT2	0140233903	781525448	Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Recapturing Childhood	Roddy Doyle's _Paddy Clarke Ha Ha Ha_ realistically and poignantly captures the nature of childhood in a manner probably unlike any novel ever previously written. Unlike Holden Caulfield, who is a frightened and disturbed adolescent severely out of touch with the world around him, Paddy Clarke is very much a typical 10 year old boy growing up within a very normal environment and circumstances. His family--his ma, his da, and his younger brother, Sinbad--are also quite ordinary.  That Paddy spends his childhood in Ireland is incidental to the novel. Paddy's experiences and feelings are universal to young boys throughout the world.<br />We enter the world of Paddy and his friends in the classroom and at play. With every situations filtered through Paddy's eyes, we can experience his pain, his joy, his fears, and his triumphs and disappointments from his perspective. Instead of a linear plot development, Paddy tells his story in terms of incidents in his life. His narrative is disjointed, very much the way a young boy would necessarily relate such a personal tale to others. Because of its realness, Paddy's tale is never less than engaging and heartfelt.<br />Recalling my own childhood, I was particularly amazed at how accurately portrayed were Paddy's reactions to the conflicts and attitudes of the adults around him, especially those of his parents. Being a child, Paddy lives in a different world from his parents. A constant outsider, he desperately tries to gauge whether his parents have been arguing, whether his mother has  previously been crying, or even if his parents were on the verge of breaking up. Also, like most children, Paddy has an active fantasy life. We share in Paddy's imaginings about death--an animal's, those of individual family members, and even his own. Particularly affecting is the author's depiction of Paddy's dealing with the universal conundrum of love and hate.  Paddy learns that one is not necessarily mutually exclusively of the other, and that he can feel both love and hate at the same time, especially for his little brother.	2001-11-16
US	44581654	R2RF1BIEE8DO2S	0374502927	851682515	A Cool Million and The Dream Life of Balso Snell: Two Novels	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	&quot;A Cool Million&quot;: A Stomach Churning Satire	Former President of the United States Nathan &quot;Shagpoke&quot; Whipple, now C.E.O. of the Rat River National Bank of the town of Ottsville, Vermont, tells young Lemuel Pitkin, &quot;The story of (John D.) Rockefeller and of (Henry) Ford is the story of every great American...Like them, you were born poor and on a farm.  Like them, by honesty and industry, you cannot fail to succeed.&quot;<br />With this advice in hand thus begins Lem's journey to secure his fortune and to prevent the foreclosure on his mother's house.  The only collateral Lem can put up for the tiny loan he obtains from Whipple's bank is the family cow.  After all, according to the ex-President, you must have some money in order to make money.<br />&quot;A Cool Million&quot; is Nathanael West's mordantly witty and deeply bitter satire of a decent, but profoundly naive young man's attempts to achieve the American Dream during the darkest days of the Great Depression.  West effectively lampoons the false promise of the old maxim that hard work and diligence equals success in America. For all his determination, Lem suffers one horrible indignity after another and is ripped to shreds in the process. A pawn in a facist plot to take over New York City, his final achievement is an unintended martyrdom.<br />The only thing that prevents me from giving this small gem a 5 star review is the constant feeling of dread that I felt in the pit of my stomach while reading this extraordinarily disturbing novella.	2001-11-10
US	44581654	RT5RSKUVW4FH1	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	3	13	21	N	N	Men Without A Country	_A Bend In The River_ is Nobel Prize winner V.S. Naipaul's effective, if at times ponderously written, study of major disruptions faced by non-black inhabitants of post-Colonial Congo. Naipaul tells his story from the perspective of Salim, a Muslim shopkeeper, whose family emigrated to the Congo from the east coast of Africa many years before. Under the radicalization program of the &quot;Big Man,&quot; Salim's business is confiscated and placed into the hands of a semi-illiterate, womanizing, drunkard. Salim's position is reduced to manager and part-time chauffeur to the new owner.<br />Among those caught up in the &quot;revolution&quot; are Salim's European friends, Reginald and his wife, Yvette. Formerly in an important position of influence with the African &quot;Big Man,&quot; Reginald suddenly becomes a persona non grata. In addition, many non-indigenous people are forced to flee their beloved adopted land after threats of arrest and possible bodily harm.<br />Naipaul has received criticism for racism for allegedly siding with the former European colonialists and in his negative portrayals of the native Africans. On the surface Naipaul may appear to be somewhat one-sided in the book by not touching on any civil rights abuses the Europeans may have previously perpetrated against native Africans. The only evidence of subjugation Naipaul mentions in the book is of Africans having in the past to address European colonialists as &quot;monsieur&quot; or &quot;madam.&quot; In fairness to the author, it must be recognized that _A Bend In The River_ is a work of fiction told from the standpoint of a recently disenfrancised Muslim, whose post-colonial experiences would necessarily embitter him and cause his feelings to be skewed. Naipaul has, after all, not pretended to have written a non-fiction record akin to the history of British India, or of pre-Pol Pot Cambodia, or of post-Tito Yugoslavia in which the atrocities of the previous eras should and must be balanced against those of contemporary times.	2001-11-06
US	44581654	R16P7RDIZYEPKI	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Civilization during the Cold War expertly uncovered	This magnum opus is Don Delillo's expertly crafted, extremely engaging, and multi-faceted account of the lives of a number of New Yorkers, both the famous and the not so famous, during the Cold War years and beyond. The potential reader must be cautioned that the style of _Underworld_ is episodic and circuitous, and may not be for every taste. I, myself, would occasionally lose track of the book's many characters and situations. However, there is much in the book to love and to chuckle over, and I found it well worth the journey. <BR> <BR>The book's magically and humorously told prologue (&quot;the past is prologue&quot;) recounts that early fall day in 1951, when Bobby Thomson hits the legendary &quot;shot heard round the world&quot; that won the National League pennant for the New York Giants against the Brooklyn Dodgers. Present at the Polo Grounds that day are Jackie Gleason, Frank Sinatra, restauranteur Toots Shor, FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, and Cotter Martin, a young black kid who plays hookey from school, sneaks into the stadium, and then manages to catch Thomson's baseball. In its purposefully roundabout and zig zagging way, _Underworld_ follows the path of this extraordinary ball's ownership.<br />One of the major motifs of the novel concerns the role of the &quot;underworld&quot; of waste matter or garbage in building civilization. As recounted by a one of the book's minor characters, &quot;...cities rose on garbage...dictating construction patterns and altering systems of ritual...(people) had to come up with a resourceful means of disposal and build a social structure to carry it out--workers, managers, haulers, scavengers. Civilization is built, history is driven--&quot;. It is no accident that Nick Shay, a major character in this book,  rose from his troubled boyhood to become a successful nuclear waste disposal engineer. Even J. Edgar Hoover's garbage is allegedly stolen by garbage guerillas to be gone through and analyzed. Hoover's retrieval of several pages of a magazine reprint of a magnificent, but frightening Breugel work of art flying around the stands at the end of that 1951 pennant race, would have become just another piece of debris to be swept up were it not for the FBI director's vigilence. Breugel's masterpiece is called to mind in a later part of the book concerning a potentially violent confrontation in a children's playground. We also find two nuns, one of whom is the elderly sister Edgar, working in the vast wasteland of a South Bronx neighborhood to provide food to the ill and the homeless. Out of this wreckage we meet a young, talented graffiti artist, Ismael, who assists the nuns in their work. <br />Delillo shows a number of the real and the ficticious personages in the novel meeting and interacting with one another in an interesting manner in various scenes throughout the book. Toots Shor is referred to as placing bets with Nick's father, Jimmy, who disappears while supposedly going out to buy a pack of cigarettes. Jimmy may or may not be a victim of another part of this &quot;underworld.&quot; The book also presents the late, underground humorist, Lenny Bruce, telling jokes in the underworld of America's comedy caverns related to President Kennedy and the then Soviet Premier Krushchev, in the time of the Cuban Missile crisis.<br />After the sad death of one of the unfortunate young denizens of that South Bronx neighborhood, the end of _Underworld_ suggests a chance meeting between J. Edgar and Sister Edgar in a better, happier world.	2001-10-26
US	44581654	R3UZMCR9CYUY2W	0156226006	708987652	Cosmicomics	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Voyages without end	I have never read a book quite like this one. It is definitely not a novel, in as much as there is not a set beginning, middle, climax and denouement, nor one or more characters that we follow throughout the book in a series of adventures and incidents. While the book contains a dozen short stories with a common link that may be described as science fiction, I would not call it strictly a book of this genre.<br />&quot;Cosmicomics&quot; may instead be described as a series of beautifully and imaginatively written poetic fables that defy time and space. They take place prior to, during and after the galaxies and the universe were formed, throughout myriad evolutionary cycles, prior to the birth of mankind, and even ante-dating the beginning of what is commonly called life. These tales concern atoms, molecules and other worldly beings interacting, almost interacting, and even repelling one another while travelling between gravitational and anti-gravitational forces. They may be floating around in space, chasing each other or being chased at one and the same time. There is a story of betting on the chance occurrances of historical, pre-historical, and pre-planetary incidents, and of lovers living in a time before colors, when black, white and shades of gray were the natural order of things. There is a wondrous tale of a time during the formation of the universe, when the earth and the moon abutted one another and people utilized a ladder to climb from the earth to the moon to spoon out milk. One of the most beautiful of these parables concerns the last dinosaur to survive on earth and his relationship and near love affair with one of the new ones. This is truly a book to cherish.	2001-10-05
US	44581654	R1CENL77Y1KW3W	0553271369	409895538	The Lords of Discipline	Books	2	10	28	N	N	A tale of friendship, loyalty, courage and cliches	I hate to be the Grinch among the plethora of 5 star reviews of this book.  Yes, I was drawn into Will McLean's story of life as a cadet in the Carolina Military Institute.  I did applaud Will's courage and tenacity in standing up to those who ran the ingrained and brutal plebe system, and especially in his efforts to ferret out the founders and current members of the legendary but evil Ten.  I also admired Will's loyalty to his roommates at the institute, one or more of whom no longer merited this loyalty.  However, I have difficulty recommending a book that  is not only nauseatingly graphic in its accounts of plebe hell night and sweat parties, but also revels in its cliched descriptions of southerners as know-nothing crackers and bigots and in Italian-Americans as low life, brainless and muscle bound Goombas.  I also found myself becoming increasingly bored and extremely annoyed with Will's pursuit of sainthood in his caring for the uniquely unloveable, but pregnant and abandoned, Annie Kate. Also, I had already figured out long before the end of the book the supposedly shocking identity of a certain member of The Ten who had betrayed some of the more unfortunate characters in the novel.	2001-10-03
US	44581654	R1Q99VXPHJW10A	0394718429	815123672	The Counterfeiters: A Novel	Books	2	12	16	N	N	Ten characters in search of a plot	The title of Andre Gide's _The Counterfeiters_ is derived from one of its character's novel-in-progress about individuals who mask their true feelings for those they care for most. People, instead, choose to hide behind a facade of indifference. Much of Gide's book is taken from entries from a journal kept by Edouard Molinier, the intended novelist. A sub-plot of _The Counterfeiters_ concerns a band of adolescents, one of whom is Edouard's nephew, who are allegedly circulating coins that have a veneer of gold but are in reality worthless. Gide aptly draws a parallel to the human relationships presented in his book. Gide successfully captures the needless agony, with which many of us can perhaps identify, of two people who secretly find joy in the other's company, but wrongly assume, based on surface appearances, that the other person is bored or annoyed with himself. Another character in the book dejectedly leaves home when he discovers that the man whom he has called his father throughout his life was not his natural father. The young man incorrectly assumes that this man never really loved him and would be glad to be rid of him.<br />Character development is Gide's strong suit in _The Counterfeiters_. Unfortunately, Gide's weak plot development sinks the excellent realization of his characters. Many of the story lines begun by Gide, as reflected in Edouard's journal, are abruptly dropped. One never learns what happens to Edouard's friend Laura in relation to her husband nor to Vincent, Olivier's errant older brother, and the father of Laura's child. The result is that nothing in _The Counterfeiters_ ever comes together or is resolved. Gide chooses to end the book with the suicide of one of its characters. Like several of the other people populating this book, an elderly and despondent relative had misinterpreted the unfortunate adolescent's attitude towards him as indifference. But likening this death to that of Christ dying for his sins is incredibly heavy handed. Nothing that happens in the novel prior to this tragedy prepares the reader to accept such an outlandish conclusion.	2001-09-24
US	44581654	R3GU84N34OW9T9	0813332893	568367162	001: The Gulag Archipelago, 1918-1956: An Experiment in Literary Investigation (Volume One)	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	Stalin's Crimes Against Humanity	This is Solzhenitsyn's massive indictment of the former Soviet Union's system of justice as told from the author's personal experiences and from the oral and written accounts of survivors and others familiar with many of the incidents related in the book. While reading &quot;The Gulag Archipelago&quot; I had to keep reminding myself that this is not the product of the author's imagination but that of events that really happened. Solzhenitzyn writes with a poisoned pen steeped in anger and bitterness, albeit with God guiding his hand. Stalin's system, born under Lenin, resulted in the deaths of millions of patriotic Soviet citizens, many of them loyal Communists and earlier supporters of Lenin, and many of whom were directly involved in the events leading to the overthrow of the tsarist regime. Many of the accusers (as the government prosecutors were called in the Lenin era), interrogators, prison officials, and even judges were themselves later swept up under Stalin.<br /><br />It was Article 58 of the broad-sweeping Soviet Criminal Code that resulted in the execution or imprisonment of the millions whom Stalin called counterrevolutionaries. Article 58 included acts ranging from crimes against the state (e.g. a prisoner weakened from illness or malnutrition could be shot for being unable to work), to consorting with foreigners to economic sabotage, called &quot;wrecking.&quot; Examples of wrecking included a peasant's making a bad decision that resulted in crop failure or a factory employee's machine accidentally catching on fire.<br /><br />Aptly referred to by Solzhenitsyn as the Soviet Union's &quot;sewerage disposal system,&quot; some of the horrifying methods utilized by the Stalin regime to rid itself of &quot;undesirables&quot; include those of a suspect being arrested while undergoing surgery for repair of an ulcer, men and women under interrogation being beaten and tortured and deprived of sleep for days on end, camp internees' dying from being deprived offood and water, and contracting typhus and other diseases from massive overcrowding and unsanitary conditions. Prisoners, denied bathroom facilities or even buckets, were forced to lay in their own urine and excrement or to eat their meager rations from unwashed pails which previously contained coal or human waste.  Solzhenitsyn recounts the bizarre but true history of a man, mistakenly believing he was Tsar Mikhail (the successor to Nicholas II), who was given a long prison sentence for having composed and then having read a proclamation to the Soviet citizenry promising better times under his own reign. Most sickening of all, at least to me, were those Russian soldiers who became German POWs and who were imprisoned after the allied victory by their own government for allegedly humiliating their motherland by failing to elude their German captors.<br />Considering the millions who disappeared during the Stalin regime, it is amazing that there was anyone left, especially someone as gifted a writer as Solzhenitsyn, to chronicle these horrors.	2001-09-12
US	44581654	R22PRXHQ9A49UJ	0679736522	925537205	The Unvanquished: The Corrected Text	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The Civil War and Reconstruction Faulkner Style	_The Unvanquished_ is William Faulkner's majestic and stirring account of the Civil War (called the War Between the States in the confederacy) and the post-reconstruction periods told from the perspective of civilians on the Southern home front. It is a series of seven tales, held masterfully together with the help of a number of picaresque characters who appear, or whose decendants appear, in a number of other Faulkner novels. Those who criticize Faulkner as unreadable have often referred to the tendency of his sentences run on and on for several pages. Here, Faulkner modifies this style considerably, while maintaining an almost breathless style that is always holding and exciting.<br />_The Unvanquished_ is told from the point of view of its young narrator, Bayard Sartoris, the son of Colonel John Sartoris, the head of an aristocratic, slave-holding Jackson, Mississippi family. This novel, putting aside any unnecessary moralizing, is first and foremost the story of survival and maintainence of a way of life by any means available. If this requires otherwise good people to resort to lying, forgery, stealing, preventing newly enfranchised blacks from voting, and even committing murder for the sake of revenge, then so be it. Granny, the Sartoris family's matriarch, always has her bar of soap ready to wash out the mouths of Bayard and his slave friend, Ringo, should they ever dare use a cuss word. A good, Christian woman, Granny, with Bayard and Ringo in tow, never fails to kneel down to pray to God to beg His forgiveness for their sins.<br />One of the things I liked best about _The Unvanquished_ is Faulkner's treatment of women. Southern women have often been presented as dainty, delicate creatures who exist solely to marry and to be protected by their men. Faulkner turns this idea on its head by giving the story a feminist twist. To the horror of some in the novel, he allows a female member of the Sartoris family, Drusilla, to don a confederate uniform and to pretend to be a man so that she can join her uncle's regiment to fight the Yankees. She does this to seek vengence after her fiance is killed in the war. It is even suggested by one of the characters, perhaps revolutionary for a book written in the late 1930's, that this young woman may possibly have been a lesbian.<br />In sum, _The Unvanquished_ is very highly recommended to those who admire Civil War literature, to lovers of novels about the South, and even to those who may have previously shyed away from reading Faulkner fearing an inability to get through his so-called tangled style of writing.	2001-08-18
US	44581654	R1VPEJZVEI9L6I	0140259104	190146444	The Nuclear Age	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A life spent in the shadow of death	_The Nuclear Age_ recounts one person's search for safety and sanity in a world that is anything but safe and sane. To develop this theme, Tim O'Brien uses William Cowling, the narrator of this book , as his instrument. The novel opens in 1995 with William, debatably insane, digging a huge hole in his backyard for use as a shelter (or is it meant to be a grave?) for his wife, daughter, and himself against an impending nuclear war.<br />Growing up in the 1950's I recall being extremely fearful of a nuclear war with the then-Soviet Union. I remember gazing in terror at a photograph on the cover of the New York Daily News of a huge mushroom cloud, with the newpaper reporting the Soviet Union testing a 100 megaton hydrogen bomb that was capable of destroying civilization 1000 times over. Like William, I would occasionally lay awake in bed wondering if the next day would be my last and also, like William, being afraid to share my fears of doomsday with my parents.<br />A child, naturally vulnerable and unfamiliar with the world around him needs to know that he is loved and protected from danger by his parents. When he is constantly bombarded by the media with the imminence of death from nuclear annihilation, even his parents are rendered totally impotent by that possibility. Building a shelter from a ping pong table with a roof lined with &quot;lead pencils&quot; may seem like the only answer to this child. <br />Years later William, who is a pacifist by nature, chooses to dodge the draft during the madness and carnage that was the Vietnam War. Even then he cannot escape death: all those who are closest to him, including his parents, all die. Even Sarah, his college cheerleader queen, turned anti-war revolutionary, is completely baffled by her imminent demise. Maybe if William had really chose to love her she could could have been protected. In the present, William's shadowy, former flight attendant wife, can only make fun of his fears by pinning puzzling, inscrutable poems that she composed to his clothing. <br />I agree with those who say that the best parts of this book are those dealing with William's childhood experiences, which includes his relationship with his parents. The sessions with his equally troubled therapist, Charles Adamson, who identifies and verbally empathizes with William's problems, are just priceless. I also liked the variation in the author's writing style, from a standard narrative during William's childhood to the near post-modern, sometimes stream of consciousness style of 1995. I did feel, however, that the 1995 parts concerning William's digging of the nuclear shelter a bit over the top. Also, I do not think that even someone like William, who grew up with the fear of nuclear war and who, though suffering great loss all around him would carry his fears of nuclear war with him into the present day. Nuclear terrorism and massive contamination from nuclear power plant material meltdowns seem more believable fears.	2001-08-12
US	44581654	R22Q39NSX92WK9	0679724508	524179095	Laughter in the Dark	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The best  soap opera I have ever read	I do not know if Nabokov meant this tightly written and wonderfully plotted noir to be a cautionary tale about adultery, but I do think that any married man who reads _Laughter in the Dark_ might think twice before starting an affair with a much younger woman.  This book is a cross between _Lolita_, _Crime and Punishment_, with a sprinkling of &quot;Double Indemnity,&quot; and is quite simply the best soap opera I have ever read.<br />Albert Albinus is a married, successful art critic who meets and falls in love with a young, attractive, but low class girl who is an aspiring, but no talent actress.  She cuckolds Albinus with a colleague of his who is also a deceitful and amoral opportunist.  Together they victimize Albinus in one of the cruelist and most sickening ways I have ever read.  Albinus' foolish sin begins with and eventually ends in tragedy.  If I may loosely quote Ford Maddox Ford's _The Good Soldier_, &quot;this is one of the saddest stories I have ever heard.&quot;	2001-08-03
US	44581654	RXOZCQHYC95X1	0679728821	423205180	Losing Battles	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Of a reunion, family secrets and southern hospitality	You have been cordially invited to attend Granny's 90th birthday celebration and family reunion. Present will be various aunts, uncles, brothers, cousins, children, grandchildren, and assorted eccentric (in the deep South sense) friends and neighbors. All are part of Granny's &quot;extended family,&quot; which Ms. Welty makes sure includes her readers. The guest of honor is grandson Jack Renfro, who just escaped from prison 1 day ahead of the day he was to be officially released to enable him arrive at the celebration on time. Also there are his loving wife, Gloria, and their baby, Lady May. The judge who was responsible for putting Jack in prison and his constantly complaining and snooty wife are also &quot;along for the ride&quot;. Also, present will be the spirits of relatives and friends past, especially that of the very recently deceased Miss Julia Mortimer, a much beloved and inspirational former teacher of many at the reunion. A very pleasant, but more often revealing, and sometimes shocking time is guaranteed for all.<br />Most of the &quot;action&quot; in _Losing Battles_ is presented through conversation which lends a real &quot;you are there&quot; feeling throughout. The novel ends with our attendance at Miss Julia's funeral, which is poignently and lovingly recounted by Ms. Welty. While I found Ms. Welty's style of writing often difficult is get through, I found the effort well worth it. Justly so, Ms. Welty's writing is meant be taken in slowly and savored to be truly appreciated.	2001-07-30
US	44581654	R3QHY9JOEHTXTT	0156468999	283082677	Keep the Aspidistra Flying	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A lesser, but still a good Orwell	This book is certainly not up to the level of Orwell's masterpieces, _1984_ and _Animal Farm_, but is fairly entertaining nevertheless. The theme is the idealism of youth versus the realism of adulthood. Our hero, Gordon Comstock, believe strongly in socialism, and refuses to compromise his values by taking what he calls \\"a good job\\" and becoming part of the \\"money-code,\\" i.e., being corrupted by society's obsession with making money. He just wants a part-time job and to be left alone to write his poetry, which he was having a great deal of difficulty having published. Comstock does manage to secure a good, well-paying job as a copy writer for an advertising firm (the epitome of crass capitalism), but resigns so that he could achieve his lifetime desire to sink in the mud. Comstock eventually comes to realize, however, that being poor means being forced to borrow money from his publisher friend (who runs a small literary magazine called \\"antichrist\\") and from his loving, but long suffering girlfriend, Rosemary. This Comstock cannot allow himself to do. He also cannot, without having money, provide Rosemary with the happiness she feels that she deserves. Comstock eventually throw in the towel and secures himself a happy ending of sorts.<br />The ending that Orwell chose feels tacked on. It appears that Orwell was unsure how he wanted to end the book, so he decided to write this one, which seems a bit too facile. Orwell, however, makes his point of the idealism of youth quite well, and does so with much humor. An example of this is the section where our hero does a little too much celebrating, thereby landing in trouble (nothing permanent) when he spends the money he receives from the publishing of some of his poems. Orwell's allusion to the growing of a few white hairs associated with becoming an adult is apt and, in a way, quite sweet. I felt, however, that Orwell treated the issue of youthful idealism v. adult corruption in too much of a black and white, all or nothing manner. Is it not at all possible for someone to hold a good paying, full time job and still write poetry in his spare time? I do not believe that working for an advertising firm as a copy writer should compromise one's deeply held beliefs in socialism. It would hardly place our hero in the same class as a wealthy corporate executive, much less on the same level as a John D. Rockefeller or a Donald Trump.	2001-07-16
US	44581654	RTWJJZ8T4BCSG	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The nightmare of a perfect American family	_American Pastoral_, is an thoroughly engrossing, but sad and ultimately tragic story. Philip Roth's lively style of writing never allows the novel to become depressing.<br />Seymour Levov was a three-letter man in his Newark, New Jersey high school, excelling in baseball, basketball, and football. Seymour's sobriquet was &quot;the Swede&quot; because, although he was Jewish, he was also blonde, tall and broad shouldered. He later became a very successful businessman, having taken over from his retiring father a Newark glove manufacturing plant. Seymour then met and later married a drop-dead gorgeous, Irish-Catholic girl, named Dawn, from an Elizabeth, New Jersey working-class family. Encouraged by friends, she entered several beauty pageants and was eventually crowned Miss New Jersey. Dawn later reluctantly agreed to compete (unsuccessfully, as it turned out) in the Miss America content.<br />The product of the union of this perfect couple was a brilliant and sensitive daughter they named Meredith, nicknamed &quot;Merry.&quot; Despite having a stuttering problem, Merry became a brilliant student, with many friends. In fact everything in the Levov family could be called idyllic, until Lyndon Johnson decided to escalate the War in Vietnam. To Merry, LBJ was the murderer of innocent Vietnamese women and children, as she never failed to scream at her otherwise liberal parents. Then, everything fell apart--Merry ran away and planted a bomb in the post office in their peaceful, upscale community of Old Rimrock, New Jersey. The bomb also blew up the general store, causing a prominent and beloved Old Rimrock physician to be killed. Their beautiful Merry, the light of their lives, became a wanted fugitive. <br />Through his being blackmailed, Seymour was eventually allowed to locate Merry. This previously robust girl was emaciated and living in extreme squalor among derelicts, and maybe worse, in one of the worst &quot;bombed out&quot; sections of Newark. Dawn suffers a nervous breakdown and is hospitalized. She undergoes a physical transformation as a way of reclaiming her former beauty and her sanity.<br />My only reservation about the novel is that Philip Roth, as he often does in many of his books, needs to rant and rave about the supposed ever-present animosity and suspicion between Jews and Gentiles. I found Lou Levov's, Seymour's father, inteview (i.e., interrogation) of Dawn about how Christian she planned to raise Lou Levov's future grandchild throughly distasteful. It also had very little to do with the crux of this otherwise very powerful and compelling novel.	2001-07-09
US	44581654	R2F92917G87USC	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Tom Wolfe Masterwork	In this wonderfully complex, funny, and often harrowing novel, Tom Wolfe explores peoples' obsessions with status, making money, and achieving success.  While we often admire the builders and the athletes of the world, we often forget that they, too, are human beings, with many of the shortcomings we all have.  Wolfe also shows the flip side of this admiration: how we love to read newspaper stories about celebrities, but  often are secretly titillated when their foibles and failures are revealed.  We rationalize, &quot;maybe we are better off than them, afterall?&quot;  <br />Charlie Croker, former college football player and master real estate developer, has it all.  He is incredibly wealthy, owns an enormous plantation (&quot;Turpmtine&quot;) in Atlanta, Georgia with all the trappings:  servants, horses, airplanes, and a young and beautiful, sexy, and smart second wife.  Charlie is also 60 years old, impotent, ailing with an old knee injury, and on the verge of bankruptcy.  He is haunted by his creditors from PlannersBank, and is in danger of losing it all.  <br />Fareek &quot;the Cannon&quot; Farron is a young, African-American, college football star, who is admired, not only for his strength and great athletic ability, but also for his rare achievement of rising above the poverty and criminality of the South Atlanta neighborhood of his childhood.  Rumors of Fannon's alleged rape of the daughter of a prominent, white businessman threaten to ruin his reputation and possibly to disrupt race relations in Atlanta.  <br />Conrad is a poor white, 23 year old warehouse worker in one of Charlie Croker's California frozen food outlets. Conrad is an honest, hard working, and exceedingly principled young man who does not have much in the way of money or possessions.  He also has a nagging mother-in-law who believes he is a failure as well.  Through a series of horrible mishaps and misunderstandings, Conrad is jailed and could very well lose his wife and children. Through his reading of a book of dialogues of the ancient Greco-Roman Stoics that his wife mistakenly sends to him while he is in jail, Conrad learns a new philosophy of life. This philosophy, which Conrad later imparts to Charlie Croker, changes both of their lives forever.  They come to realize that there are far more important things than the lure of &quot;success&quot; and material goods.  It is no tragedy if one loses all of these things.  What is more important is what is left: the inner self, the dignity, &quot;the spirit&quot; that all human being have. That is what sustains life when all else is gone.	2001-06-20
US	44581654	R1W3QLDBHVWBLX	0671753843	579606305	Horseman, Pass By	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Evocative but nebulous	Larry McMurtry does an excellent job in the presentation of cattle country in 1950's Texas. You can literally see all the dust, smell the sweat of the cowhands, and sense the rising panic of cattle about to be dispatched to their deaths. The book is narrated by 17 year old Lonnie, a sensitive young man on the verge of manhood and who has, unbeknownst to himself, reached a turning point in his life. His granddad, Homer, whom Lonnie dearly loves, is an aged cattle rancher of long standing. Homer is a hardworking, honest, fair and decent man, who through circumstances beyond his control, experiences a great loss that changes his life and livelihood forever. Homer also has to contend with Hud, who though charming to women, is one of the most evil characters ever presented in a work of literature. My main problem with the novel is that Hud's motivations for his various acts are never clearly presented. Although Hud threatens Homer from time to time to sell off his land, it appears that more than just greed is at work here.  Without any warning, McMurtry allows Hud to swoop down on his perceived prey to do as much damage as he can. Hud makes no attempts to excuse or explain his actions, but just walks away practically unchallenged. <br />On the whole, despite McMurtry's very colorful writing, I found reading this seemingly unfinished book a rather unsatisfying experience.	2001-06-04
US	44581654	R2P1GSXL5T51IW	0449911829	437546793	Rabbit Is Rich	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Rabbit: The Next Generation	In this third installment of the Rabbit series, circa 1979/1980, we find Harry (&quot;Rabbit&quot;) Angstom confronted by inflation, gas shortages, the Carter Administration's crisis of confidence, and most importantly by his son, Nelson.  Nelson, who is now in his 20's, desparately wants to work as a salesman in Rabbit's Toyota dealership, even though that would mean displacing the company's top salesman.  Harry feels that Nelson lacks the necessary maturity and competence for the position and wants him to return to college in Ohio. To complicate matters, the dealership is now owned by Janice and by Rabbit's mother-in-law, who inherited the firm from Rabbit's late father-in-law.  The women are on Nelson's side and, of course, gang up on Rabbit.<br />These are only a very few of the many complications in this great novel.  Updike further develops the Harry/Nelson father and son relationship that was begun in _Rabbit Redux_.  Updike has an uncanny ability to write realistic dialogue. The reader is able to gets into the heart and head of Nelson, whose anguish is palpable. It is the anguish of a young man who desperately wants to break away from his family and the past, and to attain personal responsibility, while seriously questioning his readiness for independence. Nelson, thus, must not only struggle with his feelings about a very pregnant girlfriend who he feels it his responsibilty to marry and to support, but also with some very painful memories for which he severely blames his father.  Mutual resentments felt by both the son AND the father are revealed. Both admit a fear that Nelson may be doomed to repeat the same mistakes made years earlier by Rabbit.<br />The novel also realistically presents the various sexual insecurities of the average middle-aged male.  Who else best represents the aging, average American male, but Harry Angstrom? Happily, Rabbit discovers much that is positive about himself in an interesting and sensitively portrayed (and unexpected) encounter with a friend's wife.<br />I highly recommend _Rabbit Is Rich_ to everyone who truly appreciates excellent writing and rich characterizations.	2001-05-30
US	44581654	R1HSL9NT4V1C5Q	0192839578	262538627	The Charterhouse of Parma (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	A (long) look at Italy before unification	Stendhal's _Charterhouse of Parma_ recounts the inter-relationships of the aristocracy and the middle class in the princely state of Parma, in the period prior to the unification of Italy.  While there is much in it to recommend, there are long stretches in the novel which drag considerably and could have benefited from some creative editing.  These include the historic narrative in the beginning of the book and in the sometimes endless and overly detailed wheeling and dealing between the characters. <br />Fabrizio Del Dongo, the son of a marchese, is the focal point of the book.  Fabrizio is referred to throughout the book as &quot;our hero,&quot; but appears to be anything but throughout most of the novel.  His character is oftentimes so shallow, that one would not even consider him an anti-hero.  As a young man, Fabrizio is an ardent admirer of Napoleon.  He becomes somewhat involved with Napoleon's troops during Waterloo, but is unsure if he has actually fought in a battle.  <br />Fabrizio's major claim to &quot;heroism&quot; rests on flirting with women and getting into fights with their lovers, one of whom he kills in self-defense, causing him to suffer many years of imprisonment.  Like much of what happens in the book, his incarceration without trial is largely politically motivated. Although he is spared from execution, various enemies of Fabrizio's family ensure that Fabrizio is kept there and remains in constant danger of having his food poisoned. <br />What is particularly interesting is the incredible amount of corruption and skull-duggery that is presented in the novel.  People get appointed or are promoted to high political and religious positions through promises of marriage and bribery.  Ambitions are attained through assassinations, near-poisonings, murder plots, and kidnapping.  The ends clearly justify the means in early 19th century Parma.  Through political and family connections, Fabrizio, himself, becomes a church monsignor and then next in the succession to the position of archbishop.<br />Towards the conclusion of the book Fabrizio, who by then has become a high church official, makes a series of moving sermons to a highly enthusiastic congregation, where he pleads for pity for certain a man (himself) who has endured great suffering.  He pines away for Clelia, who because of a promise she makes to her father, vows to the Madonna never again to &quot;see&quot; her lover, Fabrizio.  At the end, it is through personal sacrifices, that Fabrizio, while still not a quite a hero, does become a figure worthy of being considered tragic.	2001-05-16
US	44581654	RHUTUTI27LQ5C	0140042407	206112752	Tortilla Flat	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Flat out terrific	Danny and his paisano friends are Mexican-Americans living in Monterey, California.  Danny inherits two houses from his grandfather and invites several of these friends to rent a room in one and then, later, in the other house.  Danny being a very generous and kind person makes no effort to collect rent from his friends.  Before long, several more friends are taken in.  But one does not think of these men as mere freeloaders.  Each one is well aware of Danny's generousity, and tries to repay Danny either in his own way or with the assistance of the other paisanos.<br />This warmly appealing, colorful, and beautifully told novel recounts a number of the adventures of these men.  Whether they are attempting to help a destitute woman with children suffering from malnourishment, or giving encouraging words to a young soldier whose wife abandoned him and their an infant son for a high-ranking officer, or merely drinking wine or scuffling with their fellow paisanos or with others, it is clear that these men truly love and look out for one another.  They even form an ad hoc council to mete out severe punishment to one of their friends who is discovered stealing from them.<br />My only reservation about the book is that Steinbeck tends to patronize the paisanos.  He presents them as drunkards and slackers, who only work when they must raise some money for a special purpose.  However, realizing that the novel was set in the 1930's when such stereotyping of Mexicans (and all minorities for that matter) was quite common, I was able to enjoy this wonderful book despite these minor shortcomings.	2001-05-15
US	44581654	R249YICMUAS224	013718123X	951466975	Presidential Character: Predicting Performance In The White House (4th Edition)	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Putting the American President on the psychiatrist's couch	This is an incredibly fascinating book for those interested in the history of the American Presidency and particularly of the occupants of that office. Mr. Barber analyzes the presidents by two main factors: activity (how much effort a particular president put into performing his job) and the president's personality type and world-view (whether a president viewed his role in the world in a positive or negative light).  From this Mr. Barber theorizes that there are four major presidential types: active-positive, active-negative, passive-positive, and passive-negative.  By analyzing an individual's personality prior to his entry into the White House, Mr. Barber suggests that one can predict his performance while in the presidency.  For example, he categorizes FDR, JFK, and Truman as active-positives (high activity while president with each having a positive view of the world), Taft, Harding and Reagan as passive-positives (low effort put into performance of their duties, while trying to show a positive, if timorous, face to the world), and Coolidge and Ike as passive-negatives (each viewing his role in the presidency as a duty to perform rather than something in which to look forward).<br />The best parts of the book are in which Mr. Barber talks about the active-negative presidents, all of whom have proved disastrous to the office.  Each of these presidents had put much effort and personal investment into the performance of his duties, but without any enjoyment.  For each of these men, life has always been a struggle and the personal rewards few.  Compulsiveness and anxiety was each man's life-script. None of them could ever afford to rest on his laurels after some success, because if he did so, he would only have to re-double his efforts next time for fear of committing failure.  None could admit error and saw compromise with his opposition something to avoid at all costs. All became frozen in the rightness of a certain policy line.  This was despite all evidence showing that policy had long been proven a failure.<br />Woodrow Wilson would not compromise with opposition Republican Senators who had certain reservations about the U.S. becoming a member of the League of Nations.  The result was that the League treaty was voted down, the U.S. never became a member, and America entered a generation of isolationism.  World War II was the final outcome.  Herbert Hoover, sticking to his belief in &quot;rugged individualism,&quot;  would not modify his opposition to  the government's stepping in to ameliorate of the effects of the Great Depression.  By the time Hoover put forth his Reconstruction Finance Corporation proposal to provide loans to some businesses, the financial and unemployment crisis in the country seemed beyond repair.  The voting public was ready to dump the seemingly heartless and &quot;inactive&quot; Hoover (who was really anything but) for the more positive and hopeful FDR.  Lyndon Johnson persisted in sending more and more troops into the Vietnam quagmire despite all evidence indicating that his persistent escalation of the war had long been proven wrong.  The result was ever-rising death toll of American boys, massive anti-war demonstrations, and devastating urban riots.  Then, of course, there was Richard Nixon, who persisted in his lies and deceipt in the coverup of the Watergate Scandal.  Not only did he become the first president to resign, but his legacy was a weakened presidency by a casting of mistrust and suspicion on all the future inhabitants of that esteemed office.  Mr. Barber said that all of this could have been avoided if the American people had paid closer attention to Nixon's behavior in previous political campaigns and then deciding not to honor him by elevating him to president.<br />To Mr. Barber's credit, he readily admits that some presidents do not fit easily into one category or the other.  For example, while he generally classifies Eisenhower as a passive-negative, Ike showed from time totime some active traits in the presidency.  Likewise, while Truman was basically an active-positive, he often peevish personality could have easily lead him into some negative policy trap.	2001-05-09
US	44581654	R2U7V83BYL2PER	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Nabokov's Pale Fire	I found reading _Pale Fire_ as labyrinthian an experience as the escape passageway to a theater via the palace of King Charles of the \\"mythical\\" country of Zembla.  _Pale Fire_ is also a work of great imagination, originality, and humor.  The humor is most apparent in Kinbote's foolish efforts to spy on the poet and English literature professor John Shade and his wife and in the evil Gradus' various inept attempts at assassination.       Charles Kinbote wrote the forward, commentary, and index to the novel.  Each of these three parts is related by Kinbote in a first person narrative form.  The centerpiece of the novel is a 999 line epic poem called _Pale Fire_, which was written by the late John Shade shortly before he died. Kinbote is a colleague of Shade's at Wordsmith College and also a self-styled \\"friend\\" of Shade's. Kinbote relates that at the time when Sybil, Shade's wife, very recently became a widow, he wrangles her into agreeing to sign a contract to give Kinbote the right to publish Shade's opus.  Kinbote is extremely egocentric: in his evening walks and conversations with Shade he strongly urges Shade, in his poem, to tell about the northern European kingdom of Zembla, from which Kinbote emigrated to the United State years ago.    The poem _Pale Fire_ ,itself, is wistful, very romantic and beautifully written.  It is about John Shade's life long love affair with his wife and about the tragic death of their daughter.  Shade also muses about the possibility of an after-life.  The poem brought tears to my eyes. But, in Kinbote's commentary and to his great chagrin, Shade only mentions Zembla once in his poem.      While reading Nabokov's novel and also afterwards, I could not help compare the character Kinbote to the narrator of Dostoyevsky's _Notes From Underground_.  Dostoyevsky's great novel was done as a stream of consciousness in its first part and as a first person narrative in its second part.  However, it is clear in _Notes_ that the narrator is a severely neurotic and disturbed man.  Nabokov leads us to believe the same of Kinbote, but I am not quite so sure of that.  Kinbote's egotism and efforts to steal Shade's poem are plain.  But is Kinbote's story of Zembla a crazy man's hallucinations (as we are lead to believe) or is he relating actual events of a real country in which a series of monarchs were assassinated and in which the last king, the Beloved Charles, may become the latest victim?  Also, who is Charles Kinbote?  These are some of the questions I asked myself while reading Nabokov's puzzling, but fascinating, book.	2001-05-04
US	44581654	R2OTB2FK1BV63P	0449911934	437546793	Rabbit Redux	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Rabbit Angstrom And The 1960's	I did not expect to expect to read, much less like &quot;Rabbit Redux,&quot; Updike's first sequel to &quot;Rabbit Run.&quot; I read the first book about 20 years ago and found it mundane and uninteresting. I felt that the only future that Rabbit had was as a Readers Digest entry. Then the next 2 sequels each won a number of literary prizes. About a year ago I purchased at Strand Book Store in NYC a large, paper-bound edition containing the first 3 Rabbit books. I started to read the &quot;Rabbit Redux&quot; section, but decided to put the volume down after the book's binding ripped (and later split in two). After reading and loving Updike's &quot;Bech: A Book,&quot; I decided to purchase two used, hard-bound editions of &quot;Rabbit Redux&quot; and &quot;Rabbit Is Rich.&quot;<br />I have just finished reading &quot;Rabbit Redux&quot; and was not only pleasantly suprised, but was greatly moved. The book takes place in 1969. We find Harry &quot;Rabbit&quot; Angstrom sharing many of the views of &quot;the silent majority&quot;: he supports the Vietnam War, believes in monogamy, is against hippies, drug use, and is suspicious and mistrustful of &quot;Negroes&quot; (he cannot accept the term &quot;black&quot; which comes into common usage in the late &quot;60s.). However, after his wife leaves him for another man, and after an 18 year old female runaway and then her black miltant friend move in with Rabbit, the 1960's literally come &quot;crashing down&quot; on Rabbit Angstrom. I won't say that Rabbit becomes radicalized, but he is changed forever.<br />I found the book moving, disturbing, and in many ways quite touching. By the time I finished the last page of &quot;Rabbit Redux,&quot; I actually found myself liking this new, more mature Rabbit Angstrom very much.	2001-04-30
US	44581654	R18NXRQDDRUCQB	0884113116	581039903	The Horse's Mouth	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Shiny Diamond In The Rough	Gulley Jimson is an artistic genius.  Not too many people in the novel realize it, except, perhaps, for a down and out art critic who wants to introduce him to the world and for a stammering young man, nicknamed Nosey, who idolizes and persistently follows Gulley around to the latter's constant annoyance.  Although some reviewers call Gulley Jimson a con artist, he himself is \\"conned\\" out of a number of his paintings, which is used for payment of back rent money, while he languishes helplessly in jail.  Gulley, 67 years old and ill, believes he might finally enter the pantheon of great English artists in a final \\"creation\\" that, if it succeeded, could be compared to Michaeangelo great Sistine Chapel mural.  Gulley's dream is a great one, and the reader must decide at the book's ironic end whether Gulley succeeded or failed to achieve his ambition.    The novel is peopled with many picaresque Dickensian characters, besides, of course, Gulley Jimson himself.  In addition to the aforementioned art critic and Nosey, there is his ex-wife who modelled for him years before, a woman bartender, a poor \\"philosopher-king\\" who loves to quote Spinoza, a wealthy and aristocratic old and somewhat gullible British couple who are Gulley's patrons, and many others.  \\"The Horse's Mouth\\" is a wonderful novel of great heart. This is so in spite of (or maybe because of) the main character's perceived character flaws.	2001-04-26
US	44581654	R3ITXZKX0VAF39	044900452X	294274043	Bech: A Book	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Bech's Odyssey	While reading Updike's novel (the &quot;short stories&quot; contained within are in reality semi-connected chapters in Henry Bech's literary life) I could not help thinking about the some of the best serio-comic films of Woody Allen. Like Mr. Allen's films, the book presents the angst, self-doubt, and insecurities of a Jewish writer in an often humorous manner. In Henry Bech's case, his continuing fame rests largely on the popularity of his first novel. His literary output since then contains an experimental second novel, a critically bashed third novel (whose title is often confused with the work of another more consistently successful American Jewish novelist), and miscellaneous essays and poems. What happens next when the creative juices fail to flow, you are starting to drink too much, and you are close to fifty and may be nearing a self-perceived death? Are you reduced to having a series of aborted interviews with an intrusive British reporter in which you say very little, but are neverless reduced to a figure of gossip and derision in thereporter's ensuing article. I felt myself laughing, while suffering along with Bech, in his tenuous affairs with women, and in his &quot;less than heady&quot; experiment with marijuana with a 1960's college-type, who Bech suspects has run off to tryst with his then-mistress. We follow Bech travelling at the behest of his publisher to several Soviet bloc countries where Bech experiences a series of comedies of errors, annoyances, and misunderstandings on his and his hosts' side. A highly recommended book.	2001-04-18
US	44581654	RUIEKATEN26JE	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Martin Dressler and the Protestant Ethic	This is a tale of a poor young man who achieves success by the traditional American means of working hard. Martin Dressler is also a man of vision and imagination. He rises, step by step (or rather by leaps and bounds) from a simple clerk in his father's cigar store to a wealthy and successful hotel magnate. Martin Dressler lives in New York City in the early part of the 20th century. A young man ahead of his time, he eventually over-reaches himself by building an extravaganza of a hotel that the public simply does not understand and, thus, does not patronize. This is so much unlike his other business ventures which caught fire time and time again with the public. The end of the novel suggests that Martin Dressler, like an earlier era Donald Trump, will bounce back from financial disaster.<br />While I found the Martin Dressler tale easy to read and interesting to follow all the way through, I felt that its Horatio Alger story-line rather old fashioned and a little corny. It probably won the Pulitzer Prize because it stuck to the traditional American values held by that committee. I was also baffled how a man as modern, intelligent and intuitive as Martin Dressler could have chosen for a wife a young woman as dull and uncommunicative as Caroline, other than that she was very pretty. Was it so shocking to him that she was also &quot;frigid?&quot; I found his naivite in this regard hard to believe. His friendship and reliance on the business acumen of Caroline's much less attractive sister is easier to understand.	2001-04-17
US	44581654	R3FGOEMU38DZGN	0140139397	899677703	The Big Rock Candy Mountain (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	One Family's  Rocky Road To The American Dream	This is a the saga of one man's struggle to obtain the American Dream.  Bo Mason, like many men before him, dreamed of travelling to the West to make his fortune.  This story, however, is different.  Far from being the myth of the lone, brave, heroic rugged individualist, Bo Mason's self-centeredness involves dragging his loyal wife, Elsa, and their two sons from place to place to place in his search for wealth.  His family never develop roots nor a sense of belonging.  Mason is also blind to the suffering and degradation he causes his family.  One of his get rich quick schemes, bootlegging, exposes his family to great danger--both from the law and the lawless.  He is also a very complex man: when things go right for him, he is a loving father and husband, and full of fun and jokes; he is a great story teller.  When his business fall apart, he is sullen and subjects his sons to abuse.  He is ultimately a failure.<br />This is a novel which is rich in character development.  You genuinely care for each and character.  There is a great sense of time and place.  Each scene of the book is well imagined and beautifully &quot;visualized.&quot; It is also harrowing, often sad, and ultimately tragic. In the end, as it is in real life, it is up to the younger generation, here, the younger son, Bruce, to achieve, perhaps in a more modest way what the father could not.	2001-04-09
US	44581654	R22GS7HVZLCFUQ	014018855X	525778194	The Captain and the Enemy (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Graham Greene's Last Novel	This novel explores the universal human need to be loved and to give love through the eyes of a young boy. The book does not make clear the nature of the relationship of the man (who is called \\"the Captain\\") and woman with whom he comes to live as a surrogate son. However, this lack of clarity become the focal point of the story. We, the readers, are invited to share boy's thoughts and feelings of not only the boy's perception of what this couple mean to each other, but also whether they love or even care for him. After all, the Captain is frequently absent and then, seemingly, abandons them. The boy even questions if he has ever been loved by anyone or if he is capable of loving another human being. Years later, when he travels to Central America to meet with the long absent Captain, he uncovers not only the type of work that kept the Captain so often away from home, but also how love and deep feelings for another person may exist without ever being expressed aloud. How sad that so many of us can only see this in retrospect, when it is too late.	2001-04-04
