US	44595325	RN31FJMF3IOO5	0345461967	565690149	X-Men 2	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Not bad for a novelization.	Reading this novelization makes me want to see the movie more than I did before. <BR>Picking up right after the first movie, the story follows the X-Men as things start to go wrong even worst than before. A government official, William Stryker, stages a raid on Xavier's mansion after the president is nearly killed by a mutant. Forced to flee, the school is scattered. Professor X and Cyclopes go to visit Magneto, where they are captured by Stryker. Storm and Jean Grey search for the assassin and Wolverine is left at the school. After th attack, the students flee, and Wolverine, Rogue, Bobby and John group and leave as well. Magneto escapes his prison and joins the growing X-Men force. They find that the professor has been captured and go to rescue him, and the book ends on a stunning set of action scenes.<BR>Overall, this book was pretty good. I'd like to see them fit every thing into a movie, because there was a lot there. Among some of the good points was the introduction of Nightcrawler. He was definitly one of my favorite characters and one of the most interesting. Wolverine got a lot of page time, and in the book, we dig into his past even more than in the first movie. He got some pretty nice action scenes in as well. Bobby and John had a larger part than last time, where we only saw them in a couple of scenes. Bobby is the Iceman and John is known as Pyro. They're also some of the more intesting characters. <BR>Finally, the events in the book fell together nicely, although there were some scenes that didn't have to really be there. Wolverine and co. escaping from the mansion and going to Bobby's house was interesting, but didn't really advance the story too much. Same with Wolverine's scenes with Jean Grey. But they did provide backround for the story and may play a larger part in the future. <BR>I found parts of the end confusing. Not to give much away, but the Professor uses Cerebro to stricken a large number of Mutants and later, humans. This was not explained too much, and would have been interesting to read more about. <BR>Overall, a decent read, with plenty of action.	2003-03-24
US	44595325	R1IN1YYBPTIWSM	0345456688	996145031	Tatooine Ghost (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An excellent addition to the Star Wars series	Tatooine Ghost is a book that's long overdue.<BR>Centered around Han and Leia Solo, Tatooine Ghost takes us to Tatooine, where a lost piece of artwork has been found and is on auction. The Republic wants it because it holds a transmitter that contacts intelligence units, while the Imperials want it for unknown, but possibly similar reasons. <BR>On the ground, the bidding erupts into violence and the painting vanishes as a character from Phantom Menace, Kitsner, steals it. Now, the Rebels and Imperials are on a desperate race to recover the painting first. Everyone has a hard time, as they face a massive sand storm, Tusken Raiders, and other problems. <BR>The main part of the book, or the most important part, is when Leia finds that her father, Anakin Skywalker, was born on Tatooine and begins to learn more and more about him. She finds out about Shmi Skywalker and a lost diary that tells her more about her father. It's something that has been long overdue in the GFFA and great to finally see. <BR>In paticular, this book ties the EU (Expanded Universe) and the Prequel Era together. We see familiar people and locations as the heros move around. <BR>Troy Dennings also did a very good job with the characterizations, nailing them perfectly. Han and Leia's relationship is well crafted, as well as their traveling companions and the characters they meet along the way. <BR>Also well done is the setting. Denning crafts the underworld of Tatooine well, and creating many problems for the main characters. In that regard, it was outstanding. <BR>What was harder about the book was the entire chase across the deserts. Over most of the book, Han and Leia are chasedby the Imperials on planet, and it seems that they did everything harder than they could have. Small things such as using dewback when they could have rented or 'borrowed' a speeder, which they later do but end up abandoning. In addition, Leia and Han argue about Isolder and her near marriage in the previous book, the Courtship of Princess Leia. I would have thought that to be over by this book. Lastly, a fan favorite, Grand Admiral Thrawn was hinted at, but never seen. I would have liked to have seen him in the book, but he is not even named. The lack of a character list in the beginning was disapointing as well.<BR>To round everything off, the action scenes that Denning puts in are excellent. There are gun fights, star-fighter fights and speeder chases. What more do you need? This is an excellent read for every Star Wars fan.	2003-03-19
US	44595325	R20R79LA24EVO5	0684871599	110011583	Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A detailed and shocking look at biowarfare	Germs is a shocking book. Written by writers from the New York Times, it provides an interesting look at how America and the rest of the world researched biological weapons, and discusses the possible threat to the US. <BR>Starting off with a little known incident in the western United States, the book details how easily a cult was able to poison an entire town and how little the incident got out into the media. <BR>From there, the information goes chronologically, starting with World War II and going through the cold war to present time. There, the workings of the biological programs are shown, and it's shocking. It explains the weapons that we made, such as Anthrax, Plague, Botulinum Toxin and others. The authors write as if it's actually happening as you read, and don't reveal things until they happened in 'time'. Much of the information about the Russian bioweapons research doesn't come in until a defector explains everything to the army in the early 90s. <BR>From everything in the book, it is startling how un prepared we are for this new kind of war. Paticularly interesting was the Army's lack of interest in vaccines until it was almost too late. From the book, the US is unprepared for a biological weapons attack. That is changing, and those changes are shown at the end. <BR>This is a quick read, and very easy to get into. It's a great read for anyone who is interested in this subject, but not if you're too worried about the possibilities that the book presents.	2003-03-19
US	44595325	R3GWF5YXC78IW2	1573929689	432951561	It's Been a Good Life	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Excellent!	It's been a good life is a good way to describe Asimov's life as he describes it in his own words. An autobiographical account of his life, with inserts by his wife, this book details Asimov's life in a funny and interesting volume.<BR>He starts with his birth and childhood, which is an interesting feat. Not many people can remember their young lives. From there, he describes how he became interested in reading, then writing and finally how he first became published. From there, he describes his academic and writing lives in a clear, paced fasion. Everything blends in perfectly, from birth to death. <BR>I was paticularly fasinated by his writing life, as a fan of his. For most of the book, he describes how he became a novelist, then how he stopped in favor of scientific resources and then how he returned to fiction. Because he wrote this in the first person view, it is entirly too easy to fall right into his head, and see things the way he did. This is expecially true towards the end of the book and his life. I really got the sense that he had too much to do, that he wanted to do and didn't have nearly enough time to accomplish it all. <BR>I have read many of his science fiction novels, and from this book, learned a lot about what drove him to writing the stories I enjoy, but also about his life in general. There was much that I had no idea about. For example, he was in the Army, died of AIDs, due to a blood transfusion, and went through writing cycles. <BR>Paticularly helpful was the editing that his wife did. On almost every section, she inserted references to his life that explained what he was talking about a little better. This book would have been very difficult and/or confusing if they had not been put in. <BR>In addition, this book is an extremely fast read. I finished it in nearly five to six hours and enjoyed every minute of it. <BR>The only complaint that I have with it is that it's too short, almost abridged in sections, that could have had more to it. Other than that, it's a wonderful and entertaining read.	2003-03-19
US	44595325	R3157I7I3EBL0T	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A true war classic!	Destined to take it's place among war classics, Black Hawk Down is the story of the events in Somalia on October 3rd, 1993. <BR>The books details a raid that the stationed U.S. Army Rangers staged against Mohamed Farah Aidid, a warlord who declared himself president of Somalia, and was hampering U.N. efforts to feed the starving country. <BR>During the midafternoon, about 180 elite Amry Rangers and Delta Force troops dropped into Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, where they were to capture two lieutenants of the warlord. <BR>Right as the mission began, things went wrong. One Ranger fell eighty feet from the Black Hawk that he was in to the ground. The Somalis, who were excited due to the raid, and due to the drugs that are common among the population began to attack the soldiers who also opened fire. Before too long, a fierce fire-fight began. After the prisoners were loaded onto the convoy of humvees and flatbeds, the convoy began to move out. <BR>Then disaster struck. Using RPGs, (Rocket Propelled Granades) a Somali managed to hit on of the Black Hawk helicopters that was flying over head, causing it to crash to the ground, killing the crew. The soldier's mission changed from a raid to a rescue mission, and they had to fight their way to the crash site. The convoy was turned around, and proceeded to the crash site, but the trucks got lost, resulting in the deaths of a couple soldiers riding back. <BR>Soon, another helicopter was also hit, and crashed, killing several of the crew, and this time, there was no rescue for the survivors. <BR>By the end of the mission, which was supposed to last for an hour, but dragged on into the night, 18 soldiers, of the Rangers and Delta Force were killed, and 73 were seriously wounded. Three more Black Hawks were shot up and forced down, but they returned to the base where they were stationed. <br />This story is among the most horrifying and realistic that I have read. Bowden pulled this story off spectacularly, and I felt thatI was in the action while reading it. It flows quickly, making the book about a 1-3 day read. The book divides cleanly into thirds. Right off the bat, he drags us in with the troops going into battle, then backs up and described the base life, and the mission backrounds. Then he moves onto the attack, and then onto the aftermath and rescue of the only surviving pilot, Mike Durant. <BR>Bowden's description of the battle is as realistic as can be. As the soldiers landed, he describes their reactions and thoughts, and accuratly shows the tensions between the Delta Force and Rangers. As the fight escalated, he also describes the Ranger's need to get to the crash sites, with problems between them and the air and the Somalis fighting them. <BR>This is a true war classic.	2003-03-18
US	44595325	R3GU81ITEB942B	0765305364	694769505	The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume One 1929-1964: The Greatest Science Fiction Stories of All Time Chosen by the Members of the Science Fiction Writers of America (SF Hall of Fame)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A return of a classic	The Science Fiction Hall of Fame is an essential for any science fiction fan. Each of the twenty-six stories in it are all consitered classics in the field, by classic authors such as Arthur C. Clark, Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury and many more. <BR>Some of the stories stand out more than the rest. Nightfall, Surface Tension, Microcosmic God, The Nine Billion Names of God, Flowers for Algernon, and The Roads must roll are just a few of these. <BR>The period that the stories cover is consitered the Golden Age of Science Fiction, when the field was the most popular. These stories are the best that there are in the field. It is like having a small library on your book shelf.	2003-02-21
US	44595325	R3F88PJPP4NI97	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An excellent and fun biography.	Catch Me If You Can is an excellent that anyone can pick up and read. The title just catches you and the rest will hold you back until you are finished. <BR>Catch Me If You Can details the life of Frank Abagnale, a 16 year old who is good at catching details. When his parents divorced, he ran away, further into New York city and began his five year long crime spree. <BR>He found that he had a knack for parting people with their money through scams, starting with his father. Once in NYC, he found that airplane pilots and crews had a certain amount of respect. Soon, he had bluffed his way into a uniform and wings, and looked the part of a pilot. He then forged a pilot's license, certificate and ID card. He then took advantage of the system, in which a pilot could travel for free to get from place to place, called Deadheading. Using this, he was able to travel all over the world on rival airplanes. <BR>Along the way, Abegnale began to forge Pan Am checks, making many stunning replicas and cashing them in at banks. <BR>When he was nearly caught, he 'retired' to Atlanta, saying that he was a doctor. A neigbor of his found out and he was soon working at the local hospital for a while, learning as he went. After that, he posed as a Harvard Law graduate, forging a transcript and licence, and practised law for a while. Finally, he found a job as a teacher, learning his lessons before the classes he taught. <BR>This was all before he was twenty one. <BR>He picked up on airplanes again, and after a while, was caught in France and thrown into jail. From France, he was transfered to Sweden and then to the US. There, he made several escapes before finally being caught. <br />This book was an excellent and exciting read. This guy really travelled around and made nearly 2.5 million dollars before he was caught. <BR>In addition to his adventures, the book puts an interesting light on check forging, which Abegnale said would become increasingly easier as technology improved. He was able to pass off countless checks, some perfect replicas of the origenals. <br />I was only slightly disappointed with the book in two ways. The first was that Sean O'Reily, the FBI agent that tracked him down, only appeared in a couple scenes, and then only briefly. He is not a major character, and while I have not seen the movie, I would have liked to have seen him more, and how he accually tracked him down. <BR>The second is believability. Abegnale's exploits are out there, and I had some trouble believing him at times. His escapes are exciting, but are just hard to believe. At other times, it seems that he had too much luck and too many lucky breaks before he was caught. I would imagine that there is some exageration at several points<BR>However, it certainly makes an exciting story, and is still well worth getting.	2003-02-03
US	44595325	R29AL3Y21DENCQ	0345420667	569188059	A Guide to the Star Wars Universe	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent reference to the Star Wars Universe	The Guide to the Star Wars Galaxy is a handy reference for any fan of the books and movies. Because it was published in the year 2000, it came after a wave of new books and a new movie, thus making it up to date up until that time. <BR>While not as complete as the Star Wars Encyclopedia, it has information that SWE did not cover. However, it does not contain the wealth of information that SWE has, and the illistrations are black and white, whereas the Encyclopeida's are color. <BR>The Guide covers new information in the Han Solo Trilogy, the X-Wing series, Episode I: The Phantom Menace, the New Jedi Order (Just Vector Prime) and several other novels. <BR>So, this is just right if you are a fan that likes up to date information.<BR>However,it is already out of date and does not contain everything that is new. There is nothing about the second and third parts of the X-Wing series, nothing beyond Vector Prime and several other books that are already out. Hopefully there'll be a new editon in the near future.	2002-12-05
US	44595325	RGCBCE4370Z45	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another technology thriller!	I could not put this book down. In all, I finished it in just under five hours. Gripping is hardly the word for it. <BR>Crichton has again brought us a high-tech novel that studies the recent advances in science and technology. <BR>In this book, a company 'accidently' releases a group of nano-particles in to the air. They have some intelligence, communication and power skills, and are equipped with a PREDPREY programming that allows them to learn from mistakes. In the wild, they begin to evolve, gaining a group intelligence and create their own reproduction lab. Now, they're trying to get back into the lab that they started in. And they're hungry. They kill several people and animals, using their bodies for materials.<BR>What happens is unexpected and exciting as the programmers inside struggle to find out what's going wrong.<br />I found somethings difficult in the book. First, the main character takes a long time figuring things out. What the particles can do, the difficulty with his wife and what's going on with some other programmers. It fits his character, but is painful to read at times. <BR>His kids are nothing short of annoying. The same thing popped up in Jurassic Park: Annoying kids. At least this time they didn't play much of a role, although we do see them here and there. <br />Crichton follows a predictable pattern with his novels. Like Timeline and Jurassic Park, the book is about the hubris of scientists, and how their actions are doomed to fail.<BR>There are some strong parallels with Jurassic Park in this book. Genetic Engineering is a large portion, except that it is nano-manufacturing. For a majority of the book, the characters are cooped up inside their labratory, like in JP, and there is also a scene where the characters go the the breeding grounds of the particles, like in JP. The pattern is danger, hiding/studing/arguing, then boldness and the solution of the problem. There's nothing wrong with this, but it is predictable. <br />Like in Timeline, Crichton also gave us a slew of scientific information about the sciences in the book and that are being worked on now. I've enjoyed reading this, and it makes the book worth reading, if only to get the current happenings in a science world. Its all very interesting. <br />The result is an excellent, well paced read, that is painstakingly studied and has all the elements of a great book. Action, explaination, and a very interesting science problem.	2002-12-03
US	44595325	R1G4HY0MJG2YCJ	0312238266	804176736	Hobbits, Elves and Wizards: The Wonders and Worlds of J.R.R. Tolkien's 'The Lord of the Rings'	Books	3	12	13	N	N	An interesting insight to Tolkien's Middle Earth	Hobbits, Elves and Wizards is a broad over-view of the Lord of the Rings. In it, Stanton goes over the trilogy, and analyses the patterns in Tolkien's writing, historical relevence, Tolkien's life, and his writing. <BR>The book is divided into two parts, and each cover different things. The first half covers the trilogy itself. There are six chapters, one for each of the books in the Lord of the Rings. In each chapter, he points out similarities between scenes, how the characters are progressing, and the geography. <BR>The second half covers the races of Middle Earth, Languges, and Good and Evil, and how they play a role in the story. <br />Overall, this is a fairly good read, if you are not a die-hard Tolkien fan. Stanton was a UVM (University of Vermont) professor, and taught LOTR for a long time. This is his reactions and conclusions from the books, presented in a book form. It reads like he's there talking in front of you. <BR>But if you are familiar with the Lord of the Rings, this book will just be a reiteration of what you can get out of the books yourself. <BR>The only gripes I had about the book are the signifagance of the Gray Havens, for I would have liked to know more, The Hobbit. This book does not cover it, but it would be good to see in included. Some of Stanton's conclusions are a little off. At one point in the trilogy, Gollum is fantasizing at taking over the world, while Stanton says that he is not ambitious. He could have explained that more. <BR>Also, the hardcover edition was released before the Fellowship of the Ring movie was released. The paperback version has his own comments on the movie, but not in the hardcover. <br />Even for Tolkien or Lord of the Rings fans, this in a good read about the style and writings of Tolkien.	2002-10-30
US	44595325	R2LP06NT209J0M	039923019X	214910196	The Seven Songs of Merlin (Merlin Saga)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The second story of an incredible epic	This is the second book in The Lost Years of Merlin series. <BR>In this book, Merlin has been entrusted with the Flowering Harp, which can bring life to the dead lands that had been destroyed earlier. Merlin, in a fit of Hubris, shirks his duty and brings his mother to the island of Fincayra, a place she had left years ago. But upon her arrival, she is struck by a dark magic that will kill her in thirty days, unless Merlin can master the seven songs of wizardry and journey to the overworld. <BR>This book was a little bit of a disappointment for me, for the characters, but was as good as the others in the series. The main grip for the series is Merlin in the beginning. He was acting very, very dumb. He flaunted his power and as a result, brought his mother to near death. This is a very typical thing for a hero to do, and because he heard many greek stories, I would have guessed that he would have known better. <BR>Other than that, the story was excellent. The neat thing is the songs. Reading them, I realized that they have a consiterable relevence to 'real' life. <BR>This is another good character changing story. Barron takes us slowly as Merlin is brought down a bit after learning some things about friendship, all the way to mastering the songs and becoming all the wiser for it. The Merlin in the beginning is different from the Merlin in the end. <BR>The plot line about the two gods, good and evil, struggling for power is in a little more clearer focus now. Merlin actually talks with them in the story. <BR>Lastly, we get to see more of Fincayra's residents, and more of the island.	2002-10-23
US	44595325	R3LTP7FX7EQGSR	044100668X	214910196	The Lost Years of Merlin	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An interesting look at Merlin	The Lost Years of Merlin is a very well written, smart work about on of fantasy's most interesting characters, Merlin the wizard. These books take place before he ever met King Arthur, or lived in Camelot, but detail his life as a teenager and how he began the road to becoming the Merlin that we know. <BR>This book, and the four others that follow, show an extrordinary effort at character building and personality. <BR>The book starts as Merlin, Emrys, washes ashore, his memory gone, and a women besides him. He has no memory of what had happened, and the women, who claims to be his mother, raises him. <BR>Emrys grows up learning about the Greek gods and myths and around the age of eleven, begins to feel the magical powers he soon learns to master. But he and his mother are attacked and he looses his eyes and is scarred by the magic in its raw potential. <BR>Soon, regains a sort of sight, a second sight. Wanting to find out who he really is, he goes to the ocean where he washed ashore and builds a boat to take him to a magical land that he was told that he and his mother come from. <BR>He arrives on the island, and is confronted with evil. The island is being overtaken by an evil king and his master, and going with a girl, Rhia, and a Merlin, Trouble, he goes to confront the king to save his friends and to save the island. <br />The story overall is sort of cliched, in and about the evil king, young hero who goes to save all, and all of that, but despite this, Barron manages to weave a complicated tale and world beautifully. Fincayra, the island, is a world that lies between heaven and earth, and has a vast array of magical and interesting people, animals and creatures. This is a world of fantasy, with many elements from every aspect of fantasy mixed in. <BR>The island's discription is well done and detailed. After reading this book, I went right back to the library and then bookstore to buy the rest of the series, hoping to read some more of this incredible story.	2002-10-23
US	44595325	R1VMXD61QM5CI7	0385019580	694769505	Science Fiction Hall of Fame	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A classic anthology of Science Fiction	The Science Fiction Hall of Fame is a classic, one-volume library of works from the so called Golden Age of Science Fiction. These stories are from the 30's, 40's, 50's and 60's, when science fiction was booming. This volume contains the works of some of the biggest and most well known authors in the field, such as Isaac Asimov, Arthur C. Clark, Robert Heinlein, Ray Bradbury, Theodore Sturgeon and James Blish, among many others. <BR>Don't get this volume mixed up with the pulp science fiction thats out there. The stories within are among some of the most famous out there. Nightfall, Surface Tension and Flowers for Algernon are in here, some of the classic stories out there. <BR>Each and every one of the twenty-six stories in this book are exciting, thoughtful, interesting and are at the edge of imagination. They cover everything from bioengineering, first contact, mutations, god, robots, Mars and space travel, all the things that come with science fiction. <BR>One of the most interesting things about these stories is that they were written seventy, sixty, fifty or fourty years ago, yet the ideas and writing are just as vivid as they would be written today. Some of the things that are being written about had not been invented or conceived by science, but are now the forefronts of science now. Bioengineering and robotics are the big ones. First contact and space travel still remain in science fiction for the most part, but who knows what will happen, expecially if some of those ideas were correct?<BR>This is a must for any science fiction fan out there.	2002-10-17
US	44595325	R13X8CDKV6TOBS	0892967676	983124018	The Sniper's Wife	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A new twist for the Joe Gunther Series!	Archer Mayor is a fantastic writer. No ifs ands or buts. He's also up to date on what readers want. The Sniper's Wife is a huge change from the previous twelve Joe Gunther books in several ways. The first: It's not a Joe Gunther book. It's a Willy Kunkle book! Mayor regulars recongnize him as Joe's grumpy co-worker. Second: Its set in the third person, no the usual first that Archer usually writes in. Lastly, it takes place in New York city, not Vermont. Now, if you are a die hard Mayor fan, don't close this window. <BR>The Sniper's Wife is up to the same caliber as the rest of his books. Willy gets a call from the NYPD, saying that his former wife has been found dead, apparently of a drug overdose. Willy goes down to confirm the body, and finds that there is something wrong. Her apartment is not that of a drug addict. He suspects foul play. Following his gut, Willy must delve into his past and through the New York city underworld to find her killer. He meets old aquantances, former friends and family members. <BR>Joe Gunther and Sammie Martens are still around. When Willy vanishes from duty, they track him down to the big city to try and help him out. What results is a fast-paced, exciting story of crime, forensics and honor as they uncover more and more. <BR>I have been waiting for this book to come out for almost a year. First, I had prior notice to this book, because my name, Andy Liptak, has been used in the story. I have met Mr. Mayor and talked to him many times. I live in VT, the same state that he lives in, and it is good to meet a local, popular author who enjoys talking to fans and giving incredibly funny talks. <BR>The Sniper's Wife is a new turn for Mayor, but a neccesary one. When an author constently writes with the same character(s), he/she will get into a grind and turn out clones of each book. By writing third person, with a new character and setting, Mayor is heading onto a new track. He has said that there will be more Joe Gunther books in the future, but for now, Willy Kunkle is what we'll get.<BR>Not that that's bad. Willy is such a different character than one would normally expect. He's irritable, rude, pushy, crippled, has a dark past and a hard worker. He's calmed down a little, but is still Willy. You don't want to know what he does on the job. To me, this novel was a good chance to see Willy even more that we ever have before. We see his family, his wife, his old job and his past. All of this has been hinted at before, but not in any great detail. This is the way to write a series. <BR>So, with Willy Kunkle, Andy Liptak, Joe Gunther, New York city and everything else, this is a novel that is well worth reading many times. <BR>...	2002-10-11
US	44595325	R2FLBRPXDK41F	0743464117	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An excellent book placed in the heart of World War II	Band of Brothers is a breath-taking and exciting book that follows the E (Easy) company, 101st airborne division as they went from basic training to the heart of Germany in World War Two. <BR>Ambrose discribes the training that the men went through. The airborne was, at the time, an experimental unit in which soldiers were highly trained in small unit combat and dropped into battle via parachute. <BR>In the states, their training consisted of rifle practice, explosives, hand to hand combat, day and night marching and many more things that soldiers had to know.<BR>After their training, the soldiers went to England, where they had some more training, preparing to fight the germans. <BR>Finally, on June 6th, the Easy company, along with several thousand other American, French and British paratroopers, jumped into france in the first attack of Normany. <BR>Ambrose did his homework for this book. He interviewed many soldiers in the Easy company, as well as some other soldiers that they fought against or with. The result is a masterpiece. This book comes from the view of regular soldiers, and describes their reactions to war, death and coming home. There are regular interviews with the soldiers of Easy company, and from that, they describe it for themselves. <BR>There is little to do with politics in this book. The view is solely from the soldier's standpoint, and how they see it is how they see it. There is nothing from Eisenhower's view, or any of the generals. <BR>In a sense, this makes the war a little narrow viewed. I had some trouble figuring out MARKET-GARDEN, and Carehtan, and only after I did some research was I able to put it in the right place.<BR>This book also is able to give the reader a pretty clear view of the European Theater of Operations after D-Day. Easy Company was at the front of almost every battle in Europe, start to finish. This makes it a good book to read if you are studying the European campaign.<BR>All together, this is a great book, destinedto be a classic among war stories.	2002-09-23
US	44595325	R1M75L9AMV5BVM	0765300176	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A Worthy addition to the Ender series	Shadow Puppets picks up right after Shadow of the Hegemon ended. Achilles has been rescued by Peter Wiggen, the current Hegemon, from China. Bean protests, and begins to move around, constently moving to stay out of Achille's hands. Petra declares her love for him, and they are married. In the meantime, Peter and his family discover that Achilles is beginning to manipulate the Hegemon government, forcing Peter to run as well. <BR>Bean and Petra end up with Alai and his muslim forces, where they are planning an attack on China. Bean and Petra create several embryos to have a child, only to have the ones that were not implanted stolen by Achilles in an effort to lure Bean into his trap. <BR>I found this to be as likeable as the other books in the series. Card does a magnificent job of creating a political crisis and shifting alliences that seem to be very simple. Achilles is back and causing more trouble. SPOILERS: I really liked the fact that he was killed by Bean, but It makes me wonder about what will happen in the next book.<br />I also liked the fact that we revisited Battle Station. In Ender's Game, it was a military acadamy, but in Shadow Puppets it is a way-station for colony ships.<br />What I didn't like about the book were a couple things. The first was Peter. He's the Hegemon in the book, but around his parents, he acts like he's five years old. His parents are also pretty immature as well, cracking dirty jokes around and about him.<BR>Overall, a very good read.	2002-09-20
US	44595325	R3OAAVY1ECEI70	0671016784	12366720	Gravity	Books	3	12	13	N	N	A fast-paced, exciting read	Gravity is a very fast, exciting read that combines science fiction, biology, NASA and some problems for the characters. <BR>In the story, a biological sample begins to infect the crew onboard the International Space Station. The victims have bloodshot eyes, muscle cramps, and then violently die, spreading the organism around to infect others. <BR>On the ground, a space shuttle crashes, and NASA is forced out of the picture by the military, who want to cover up the infection and protect the people on the ground. The surviving crew members are quarintined on the station, while infection eats them away, one by one. <BR>I found this to be a very dramatic read, with nice mixes of the Hot Zone, Cobra Event, Apollo 13 and Aliens. There is also quite a bit of science, which well supports what is going on in the story. Gerritsen's characters are really well written, with all of their problems and weaknesses. I also enjoyed the research parts, reminisent of the Hot Zone. <BR>However, this book did have some problems. The first people to die were the ones that weren't that interesting. Its as if they are just there to hold a place. <BR>Also in the book, everyone seemed to worry way too much about routine shuttle lift offs. This might go wrong, that might go wrong. The space shuttle is one of the most efficient machines around. <BR>Emma and her husband's relationship was pretty dry. Apart, they hated each other on the ground, while together, they seemed to be okay with each other, even though their relationship was shot and they hate each other. When Emma is up in space, her husband can't stop worrying about her. <BR>Lastly, I would have liked to see more of the Alien organism, after the first stage. <BR>Overall, not a bad read. Its hard to put down, but hardly above the avarage, or extraordinary.	2002-09-04
US	44595325	RQ7QEG52RP20I	0345440749	972042133	Galactic Phrase Book & Travel Guide: Beeps, Bleats, Boskas, and Other Common Intergalactic Verbiage (Star Wars)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Learn the Languages of Star Wars	This is a funny little book. In it, Ben Burtt has compiled a lexicon of several languages from the Star Wars movies. Among the languages that you can learn are Jawa, Ewok, Tusken Raider, Hutt, Neimodian, Bocce, Wookie, Droid and Gungan. This is a pretty impressive list. Each species has their own spotlight, and a list of phrases that are in their own language and in Basic (English). These include for example: Smeekeeya whao toupee upee. (Huttese: Smile when you say that.) and Mesa greeting, In peace mesa comen. (Gungan: I come in peace.) <BR>For die-hard Star Wars fans, this is a must to have. Try memorizing it. ;) Burtt writes this with a funny and upbeat tone to it.<BR>In addition, there is a section on how Ben Burtt (The author and sound technition for all the movies.) came up with the various noises that we hear in the films. This is interesting to read. <BR>Lastly, there is a section with the movie script in it, for A New Hope and Return of the Jedi, so you can impersonate Greedo or the Ewoks.<BR>However, I did find some problems with this book. One is the price. It is about $[money], which is a lot for a small book. The novels are less than that. <BR>Secondly, the words are hard to pronounce, and there is no pronounceation guide included. It would make saying the things so much easier. <BR>Third, I would have liked to have seen more languages, so hopefully they will update this with some dilects from Attack of the Clones. <BR>This is a cool little book to have. If you like Star Wars, check it out!	2002-06-17
US	44595325	R3ADK3ZFB13FYT	0142000760	193658262	Dragon Hunter: Roy Chapman Andrews and the Central Asiatic Expeditions	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Real Indiana Jones!	Roy Chapman Andrews lead a very exciting and interesting life, one that seems to have been the basis for the Indiana Jones films.<BR>Andrews starts off from a kid in a poor family and rises to fame through his adventures. When he was in his teens, he talked (How many can do that?) his way into a job at the National Museum of Natural History as an assistient. While he was there, he was sent around to study various things, becoming the expert on whales, dinosaurs and the middle east. <BR>He then began planning an enormous expidition to the Gobi Desert in China, to find evidence of the first man. He didn't fidn any, but he did find the first Velociraptor, the Flaming Cliffs of Mongolia and countless fossils of dinosuars and other exctinct animals. Along the way, they had to confront bandits, corrupt Governmental officials and a civil war. <BR>Gallenkamp does a nice job writing this biography. It is fast paced and fairly detailed. He draws from several sources and puts them together to get this man's life in order. Along with that, you really get to see Andrews as a person, and you can see that he has a vibrent personallity. He is like a real Indiana Jones in many ways. <BR>Along with the biography, Gallenkamp includes pictures, so we get to see what Andrews looks like, but he doesn't name the native guides at all. <BR>The problem with it is that is too fast paces, and it jumps around a little bit, making it confusing for the reader. While this is not a huge problem, it is annoying and could be written better. <BR>Overall, for its few shortcomings, this is a very good read and well worth getting.	2002-06-17
US	44595325	R3NCCI6QJ0LABT	0553568922	243185491	Conquerors' Pride (The Conquerors Saga, Book One)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A thrillig Military Sci-Fi book.	Conqueror's Pride is the first book in a well conceived trilogy. Commander Pheylan Cavanagh, in charge of a space task force encounter a new race of aliens, and attempt to make first contact. However, when the radio package is sent over the airwaves, the mysterious aliens attack the force, destroying all of the ships and escape pods, save for Commander Pheylan Cavanagh's pod. They find him and take him prisoner. In the meantime, Cavanagh's father finds out about the disaster and uses his influence to organize a task force to find out what happened to his son and his fleet. Among his forces are Copperheads, fighter pilots who use an interlink to fly. <BR>They then set out to find out what happened. <BR>Cavanagh has been taken prisoner, and Zahn writes out this well. His discriptions of the aliens, who come in periotically to check up on Cavanagh and to study him, are well done. As Cavanagh learns more, we learn more, and soon he is plotting his escape from the aliens. <BR>What happens is that he escapes, and a war is about to be fought between the Humans and the aliens. <BR>Zahn does a great job with this book. It's top-notch Sci-Fi writing, down to the technical and social details of a galactic civilization.<BR>Along with the action, Zahn throws politics in, and plays with that well. The senators don't want to find out what happened, and Cavanagh's father has to play behind the scenes illegaly to get a task force together. <BR>The first contact situation is also well done, as I mentioned above. The aliens don't quite know what to make of Pheylan and probe him for his mentality and personallity. <BR>A well done book.	2002-06-17
US	44595325	R1MCXO34DO1VEQ	0140288503	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Modern War Classic	Black Hawk Down is the story of the events in Somalia on October 3rd, 1993. <BR>The books details a raid that the stationed U.S. Army Rangers staged against Mohamed Farah Aidid, a warlord who declared himself president of Somalia, and was hampering U.N. efforts to feed the starving country. <BR>During the midafternoon, about 180 elite Amry Rangers and Delta Force troops dropped into Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, where they were to capture two lieutenants of the warlord. <BR>Right as the mission began, things went wrong. One Ranger fell eighty feet from the Black Hawk that he was in to the ground. The Somalis, who were excited due to the raid, and due to the drugs that are common among the population began to attack the soldiers who also opened fire. Before too long, a fierce fire-fight began. After the prisoners were loaded onto the convoy of humvees and flatbeds, the convoy began to move out. <BR>Then disaster struck. Using RPGs, (Rocket Propelled Granades) a Somali managed to hit on of the Black Hawk helicopters that was flying over head, causing it to crash to the ground, killing the crew. The soldier's mission changed from a raid to a rescue mission, and they had to fight their way to the crash site. The convoy was turned around, and proceeded to the crash site, but the trucks got lost, resulting in the deaths of a couple soldiers riding back. <BR>Soon, another helicopter was also hit, and crashed, killing several of the crew, and this time, there was no rescue for the survivors. <BR>By the end of the mission, which was supposed to last for an hour, but dragged on into the night, 18 soldiers, of the Rangers and Delta Force were killed, and 73 were seriously wounded. Three more Black Hawks were shot up and forced down, but they returned to the base where they were stationed. <br />This story is among the most horrifying and realistic that I have read. Bowden pulled this story off spectacularly, and I felt that I was in the action while reading it. It flows quickly, making the book about a 1-3 day read. The book divides cleanly into thirds. Right off the bat, he drags us in with the troops going into battle, then backs up and described the base life, and the mission backrounds. Then he moves onto the attack, and then onto the aftermath and rescue of the only surviving pilot, Mike Durant. <BR>Bowden's description of the battle is as realistic as can be. As the soldiers landed, he describes their reactions and thoughts, and accuratly shows the tensions between the Delta Force and Rangers. As the fight escalated, he also describes the Ranger's need to get to the crash sites, with problems between them and the air and the Somalis fighting them. <BR>This is a true war classic.	2002-04-20
US	44595325	R1PXD2RFCHN7JA	0312977026	551641485	K-Pax	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A very good read.	K-PAX is as realistic as they come. Not only does Gene Brewer use his own name, but his wife's as well, and he writes this story with a very realistic feel to it. Its almost as if you are in the room with him as he questions prot about himself. <BR>prot is a young- mid twenties man who insists that he is from another planet. He is checked into MPI, where Dr. Brewer trys to find out who he really is. There, prot begins to have a positive influence on the other patients, who begin to get better as their are exposed to prot. <BR>But soon Dr. Brewer finds that prot is not alone. Deep in his mind, he has another entity, hiding from a tragety that he cannot face. Together, Brewer and prot, along with the help of a journalist, they must find this man before prot leaves for K-PAX.<BR>This man is Robert Porter, a small town man who lost his wife and child. Brewer must find him before prot's influence leaves. <BR>I thought that this was a very good and fast read. Brewer creates some very beleivable characters, including prot and the entire ward, and it is easy to become attached to them. The plot was good as well, with a sense of urgency as the deadline for prot's return approaches. Then Robert, who we don't see. Brewer does a good job of pulling him out and finding out who he is, along with the Journalist. <BR>A great read! There is a sequel, which is 'On a Beam of Light'	2002-04-08
US	44595325	R1HHFHGI3055KI	0345402278	220710965	The Star Wars Encyclopedia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An essential for any Star Wars fan!	The Star Wars Encyclopedia is a must for any SW fan out there. Inside, it details the places, people, aliens, technology and much more, all drawn from the numerous books, movies, comics, video games and anything else that is out there. It brings it all together in one, nice easy volume to look it all up in. It includes color pictures and diagrams among other things, and is all alphabeticalized for easy referense. It certainly comes in handy when you're reading a book and find that you MIGHT know this character, but not sure from where. This book'll tell you.<BR>There is one major problem with this book however. It was written in 1997 and published in 1998, and since that period of time, there has been many more books and a movie out since then, and there is no reference to them. This includes The Phantom Menace, X-Wing Series Two, The Thrawn Duo, the New Jedi Order and a couple other stand-a-lones. But, that happens with any reference book and is still very helpful nonetheless.	2002-04-03
US	44595325	R16S5J4BF7R1KY	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Detailed and Horrifying look at World War Two.	Ghost Soldiers is a good name for those POWs. They were treated very brutally and horribly. <BR>Ghost Soldiers details the accounts of the soldiers that survived the Baatan Death March. Many Americans don't knwo much about it. It was one of the few times that we let our men down. After the attacks on Pearl Harbor, the Philipenes were also attacked, as were many US bases in the pacific. The men on the philipenes endured a long seige before surrendering. After they were caputered, they were marched on what is now known as the Baatan Death March, where thousands of Americans and Philipeno troops died. <BR>They then spent the next three years in consentration camps, being worked, starved, beaten and shot to death by their Japanese captors. <BR>Ghost Soldiers also tells about their rescue, which is nothing short of amazing. After three years, as the US began re-taking the islands, a group of Army Rangers, a new division, were sent fifty miles on foot to one camp, where they rescued all five hundred of the prisoners, losing only five men to the japanese, who were consentrated in the area. <BR>Hampton Sides wrote this book beautifuly, showing what it was like for those poor soldiers, physically and mentally. The book is clear, detailed, and well written.<BR>I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the history of World War II.	2002-03-08
US	44595325	R1EIL76EA1G2DI	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Awsome! True Science Fiction!	Michael Crichton does it again. His latest book, Timeline is just out of this world! In the story, a company finds out how to travel to other parallel universes and thus, back in time. In the mean time, during an archeological dig, an employee accidently lets some information out about the site and cannot explain it. The professor, Johnson, goes to the company and threatens them to let him go back in time. He does so, and becomes lost in a thirteenth century world. <BR>Four of his students are asked to go after him. There, they much find him, and bring him back. But when an accident destroys part of the time machine, they much fight for their survival...<BR>This book was intense! Crichton does a great job at bringing the people back in the last minute, and the events that go on to stop them. <BR>Crichton also does a great job with the people from the 20th century and their interactions with the 14th century people. The life that they lead is brutal, and that is illistrated well. This is also true science fiction. Science + Fiction.<BR>The only problem: it was written three years ago. I'm starving for another book by Crichton!	2002-02-20
US	44595325	R2QA7VEYB0Y05F	0886779995	613947698	In the Company of Others	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Great Sci-Fi Adventure	In the Company of Others, there are a few crusial elements that all come together in Sci-Fi. One is science and the other is fiction. They both come together in a very good novel. <BR>Aaron Pardell is a human with very strange characteristics. When touched, he is thrown into shock and the person who touched him too. He and his friend Malley live on an over crowded space station where they carved out a living. <BR>But then, Earth scientist Gail Smith comes to the station to find Aaron. She is trying to find a way to eliminate the quill, an alien species that drove off the human settlers from their worlds. Aaron might be the only survivor. Gail must win his trust and help, and they set off for Pardell's World, where Aaron was born. <BR>This was a very good read. I liked the detial that was put into it. This is especially apparent when the scenes are in the stations, for the way that the three different human cultures are interacting is brillient. <BR>The only poor things that I could find about the book was that there was a little too much detail and it is slow to read. There were also some small subplots that didn't go any where, and it also took away from the book.<BR>Other than that, this is a very good, Grade A, Sci-Fi novel.	2002-02-12
US	44595325	R60F3HAOBJ34P	0553379194	541233613	Fortress Draconis (The DragonCrown War Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stackpole's Best	Fortress Draconis is the first book in the DragonCrown Series. The book starts out with Will, a young orphan who is stated in a legend as the one who will bring down the Emperess Chytrine, who is coming back to power. He is found by Resolute and Crow, an Elf and a man who bring him into the loop and explain to him what he is to do. <BR>The book breaks into thirds, and two other characters are introduced, Alyx, a princess in command of an army and Kerrigan, a seventeen year old mage, with a skill in magic that suppasses everyone elses. Will embarks on a journey that leads him to Alyx and Kerrigan, and together they must begin to bring down Chytrine. The must also prevent her from piecing together the DragonCrown, a legendary crown that gives the wearer power over dragons, a deadly tool that Chytrine is desperate to get her hands on.<BR>I was amazed by this book. I have never seen a fantasy mixed with a military writing, and Stackpole pulls this off brillently. Scattered through out the book are battles, all expertly written, that convay the action and the tactical thinking that is present in the commanders. <BR>Stackpole also 'limits' some common elements of fantasy, such as dragons and magics, and makes them more believeable in terms of science. Slightly, but enough to be realistic. <BR>Stackpole also did a great job with the characters. Each of them are well written, with personallities to match their lives. Will is a typical rouge and thief; He steals everything in sight. Kerrigan is slightly spoiled; he isn't used to action. Chytrine was not seen until the end of the novel, but you get the sense that she is very bad. <BR>The only thing that I found hard is that this is similar to Lord of the Rings. Enough said.<BR>A good read for any fantasy fan!	2002-01-21
US	44595325	R2KUBC7WA7P54V	0553579002	822261892	Solo Command (Star Wars, X-Wing #7) (Book 7)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The stunning conclusion to the Wraith Series!	In the last book of the X-Wing II series, the Wraiths face their biggest challenge yet. Their mission is to infiltrate Zinj held worlds and start to destroy the holdings that he has there. The Wraiths fly mission after mission, and soon are fronted with betrayal, insanity and death. <BR>This book is written on a larger scale, with the wraiths operating with three other squadrons. In the center of it all, Han Solo leads the task force. With plenty of action scenes, and a startling conclusion, this book ties in nicly with the entire series, as well as the Courtship of Princess Leia, the next book in the series. <BR>I like this book possibly more than the others, but not by much. I enjoyed seeing the wide scale view, and expecially Han Solo. Alliston did a great job with him. This book will keep you to the last page, and will make you sorry that the series is over.	2002-01-16
US	44595325	R2A9MQ6AOXGQNW	0553578979	254727570	Iron Fist (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Undercover again!	The second book in Aaron Alliston's X-Wing II series, the Wraiths are again in action. This time, they are continuing to disrupt Warlord Zinj any way they can. They decide to become pirates and infiltrate the system that the imperial warlord has set up. <BR>While they enter the system, Wraith Squadron must contend with many new things. New recruits, a budding romance between pilots, death and a possible imperial in their midst. <BR>On top of that, they must find a way to prevent Zinj from capturing an imperial Super Star Destroyer, without revealing themselves.<BR>Again, Aaron Alliston brings magic to the X-Wing series. This time, the Wraiths are more sabotuers, although we do see the exciting starfighter dogfights that keep you on the edge of your seat. We are introduced to some new characters, and find out who they are going up against. Alliston does a great job with this second book.<BR>I like the pirate scenes, where the Wraiths must go against what they fight for in order to win. The stealth and deception, not to mention all of the trouble shooting that goes on is great!	2002-01-16
US	44595325	R2SX1S9WQQ0OFD	0553578944	509685286	Wraith Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series #5) (Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A new look at the Starfigher ranks!	Aaron Alliston's first edition into the Star Wars field, Wraith Squadron brings a new look at the series that was created by Michael A. Stackpole.<BR>In this book, Wedge Antilles decides to form a new type of starfigher squadron. This squadron would do anything from spying to disrupting imperial or rogue-imperial functions. He also wants to do it with pilots that flunked out of flight school or were trouble makers. <BR>Despite all of the oppostision from his superiours, Wedge forms the squadron and begins training them. But soon after their training begins, they are attacked by a rogue imperial warlord and take over the ship. Now they must complete the ship's origenal mission without revealing themselves and take down the warlord's operation as best they can.<BR>I have a lot of fun reading Alliston's books. First, he does a great job with his characters. Where Stackpole has some characters normal, Alliston has his characters act out. Wes Janson is immature for example. He does this without losing the character's feel and believabliity. <BR>Wraith Squadron also felt like a good action novel. It wasn't all in starfighers, but with the Wraiths on the ground fighting and blowing things up and infiltrating into enemy posts. It is really great to read and enjoy!	2002-01-16
US	44595325	R3UCPT2QE0V17B	0553568159	842118668	Tales from Jabba's Palace (Star Wars) (Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Tales from the underworld	Tales from Jabba's Palace provides a nice, detailed look at what else happened during the scene with Jabba the Hutt in Return of the Jedi. Drawing from characters who had less than a second of film time, this book expands the movie nicely. <BR>What I like about the book is that there are plenty of short shories that are about one character. Reading the whole book brings Jabba's palace into life more vividly than the movie. For instance, Why did the Rancor's keeper cry? Why was the first droid tourtured? These questions and more are answered. <BR>You also get the chance to see other characters from other books. Mara Jade makes an appearence, as well as Boba Fett. <BR>The wide range of authors is great too.<BR>The only thing that buggs me is that this book goes into a little too much detail. Such as being IN the sarlaac.	2002-01-16
US	44595325	R2G159YQ6ZI6UV	0553568027	614671119	Wedge's Gamble (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A fast, exciting read.	Wedge's Gamble is the second installment of the X-Wing Series. In this adventure, the Rebel Alliance has decided to capture the jewel of the galaxy: Coruscant. Heading up the mission is Rogue Squadron, who is infiltrated into the planet to take down the planetary shields. But while on Coruscant, things begin to unravel and the Rogues must take down the shields or risk capture or execution.<BR>While the Rogues go about their agenda, the Imperial High Command begins their deadly work...<BR>I think that this is one of the best SW books out. It has everything that one could ask for. Michael Stackpole filled it up with many things, ranging from romance to technical.<BR>I like Stackpole's method of Military writing, for it gives a nice feel to the book. Things don't always go well, and are sometimes harder for the characters than meets the eye. <BR>Stackpole also details the Imperial Coruscant well, and it fits nicly in George Lucas's Coruscant from the Phantom Menace. <BR>As always, the action is superb, although much of it is on the ground, for the Rogues are planet based, but there are the classic space dogfights in the beginning and in the end. <BR>The only thing that I found wrong is that there is a little too much in the book, and it might have worked well if the taking of Coruscant took place over two books, and that would allow for more detail and actions. <BR>A very good read indeed!	2002-01-10
US	44595325	R3EF440P4LWOPD	0385335164	429647186	The Coalwood Way (The Coalwood Series #2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A great read!	Homer Hickam's October Sky was one of the best books that I have read. Now, Hickum returns to Coalwood to detail his life further in the Coalwood way. Set during and slightly after October Sky, Homer and his friends have to struggle to have their normal lives as well as their rocket work. Homer disapoints his mother, who lost her pet squirrel due to his carelessness and refuses to forgive him. Homer's social life is failing and so is the mine that his father works at. Everything seems to fall apart. <BR>The one thing that seems to bind the town together is the Christmas pagent that is coming up, and the one that his mother insists on doing alone, without any help. <BR>It was hard to put this book down. I had to find out what would happen between Homer and his friends and family, and the book just flew by. It is a very good emotional piece of work and well written.	2001-12-12
US	44595325	R15AUEJDMYSJQY	0553573918	765635327	The Icarus Hunt	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A novel of epic proportions!	Once again, Timothy Zahn has demonstrated his ability to stun any reader who reads his work. <BR>Jordan McKell is a spacer in a galaxy that is as diverse as any Star Wars creation. He is a transport pilot in a galaxy where his trade is monopolized by the alien race Patth. They hold the trading world in their hands due to their technology, and therefore forcing everyone else out of business. <BR>Jordan has racked up a huge debt and is working for a leading crime lord when he is offered a job by a well known business man: Deliver the starship Icarus to Earth. Short on money, Jordan agrees and sets off on an adventure that is of epic proportions. With a rag-tag crew, Jordan has to make it to earth in a ship that is as strange as it's unknown creators, and with technology that has everyone else in the galaxy out to grab it. <BR>Going from world to world, running into everything from bounty hunters to drug addiction in his own crew to a killer on board the Icarus, Jordan and his friend Ixil have to get the Icarus to it's rightful owners. <BR>(...) <BR>The Icarus Hunt is a beautifully written work of Science Fiction, and written on the scale of any epic book or movie series. The book incorperates everything a sci-fi fan wants: Action, mystery and suspense. A must for anyone who calls themselves a Science Fiction Fan.	2001-12-12
US	44595325	R3N4E1ZMNFA1NQ	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Science Fiction Classic!	A couple words- Read this book!<BR>Ender's Game follows Andrew 'Ender' Wiggin, a brilliant young boy who is brought to the orbital training station. There, he recieves training to become a military commander. <BR>Earth had been attacked by a race of aliens, who were trying to take over the planet for their uses. The human race then fought them off, and prepared for another invasion. They took children, and trained them to lead the defense of earth. Ender is among the smartest ever. <BR>He is trained at Battle school, where he takes part in a series of games, or mock battles. He developes new tactics, and along the way, realizes the truth behind the battles. <BR>I was taken away by the story of Ender, and am a fan of the other Ender series books. <BR>What made Ender's Game so brillient was the morals and the exploration of the human mind that Orson Scott Card wrote. Ender goes from a scared little kid to a mature teen under battle condistions and the way it was portrayed was phenominal. Ender burns out, realizing what he has done and what he has to do to live up to the stresses that he was shaped under.<BR>Ender is nothing short of brillient. He created a new way of thinking in the battle school, and shows the underlining hero-against-society plot, and the hero-under-pressure plot. This book touches the basic human in a person, friendship, leadership, love and care-- not to mention morals. <BR>In the end, ender has to choose between the human race and the aliens in order to survive.	2001-11-19
US	44595325	R152FAYLB08IRE	0553576119	469367834	Darksaber (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An okay Star Wars book.	Darksaber. It sounds ominous and it should. The hutts have found the plans for the orignal death star and are creating their own. As Leia and Han rush around to stop this new threat, a new batch of Jedi have graduated from the acadamy and go off looking for work. And on top of that, Admiral Daala has banded all of the Imperials together into one main force. Luke and his new love, Callista are looking for ways to restore Callista's powers.<BR>Daala uses revenge against the New Republic and sends a massive strike force against the Jedi. The hutt weapon is sabotoged and eliminated. <BR>Overall, the book was pretty unrealistic. The jedi defeat about 100 star destroyers by throuwing them out of the system and the hutt weapon never fires a shot. By the end, the entire Imperial force is all but ruined and Callista vanishes. <BR>An okay read, but not the best.	2001-11-09
US	44595325	R3ETGBDNGYUPD0	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of Stackpole's Best	Book two in the New Jedi Order series, Onslaught is already turning up the heat. Right off the bat, Stackpole starts off with were Salvador left off, with the Yuuzahn Vong invasion. He puts a very good tactical spin on this book, making it like an X-Wing combat book. The New Republic is up against the Vong Coralskippers, and he makes them a challange! He also brings in the Rogue Squadron and provides a good adventure for them. <BR>In addistion to the X-Wing portions. He also brings in the Jedi, and portays them beautifully. Once, the jedi were thought to be unstoppable, but now they have sever limits. The Yuuzahn Vong cannot be sensed through the force, and their weapons and ship are better. Corran Horn and Ganner Rysode go to a small planet to find out if the Vong are there, Jacen Solo and Luke Skywalker go to another, the first planet they attacked to find out what is going on, and Leia goes to Lando to evacuate the refugees. <BR>By the end of the book, we learn much more about the vong weapontry and themselves, and come to a fantastic ground and land battle on Dantooine. <BR>A wonderful Star Wars read.	2001-11-08
US	44595325	R3JP4WEDY8SZDX	0304352233	352514558	History of Warfare: War In The Air 1914-45 (The History of Warfare)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A good history on Air Combat.	This book has it all. From the start of aircraft warfare, to World War two, it explores the advances in air combat during the two World Wars, providing a detailed history of the battles over Europe and the Pacific. <BR>This book includes pictures of battles, planes and maps, along with how each power utilized their defenses and tactics. It covers every region of study in World War I and II, and it shows how air changed warfare forever. <BR>Being a World War II history buff, I found this book very attractive. No long amounts of text but diagrams to show what happened, when and where. This is an invaluble resorce to anyone who is interested in this subject.	2001-11-08
US	44595325	R8CQ14DYZDI3S	0553578731	253987847	Star Wars: I, Jedi	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best	I, Jedi is the first first-person Star Wars book written. It takes the view of Corran Horn, X-Wing pilot and future Jedi Knight. During the course of the book, Corran's wife, Mirax vanishes and Corran goes to the Jedi Acadamy under the tutorage of Luke Skywalker. But the training does not go with his expectations and Corran leaves and infiltrates the pirate group that kidnapped his wife. <BR>I loved this book because 1, Corran is my favorite character, and 2, Mike Stackpole brought the Jedi into a new light. Were we had thought them invincible, they now have limits and different strengths. Stackpole used his X-Wing technical-type writing to illistate the book in a wonderful manner. Corran has to face the dark side. <BR>What also impressed me was that the book took place over the same time as the Jedi Acadamy Trilogy, and Stackpole blended the two wonderfully. <BR>A must for X-Wing, Jedi and Corran fans!	2001-11-08
US	44595325	R339DDUF9QLY8R	0440210275	510853893	Torpedo Junction: U-Boat War Off America's East Coast, 1942	Books	5	27	29	N	N	An excellent history about the U-Boat wars	Torpedo Junction was an area off the eastern coast of the United States. During World War II, a handfull of German U-Boats sunk more tonnage than the Japanese fleet sunk in the pacific. War material being transfered across the ocean was the target and many items were lost. In the first days alone, one U-Boat sunk just under ten transports before returning to reload. <BR>This part of the war is largely unknown, but played a crusial part in the war. <BR>Homer Hickam wrote out this book wonderfully, making it seem if you were right there with the submarine commanders in battle. What I found interesting about the book is the detail and accuracy of the book. Hickam used sources from the commanders to military officials to write this, providing a complete and accurate history of the U-Boat wars.	2001-11-08
US	44595325	R3R0UNMREEND6F	0553578790	754763007	Vision of the Future (Star Wars: The Hand of Thrawn, Book 2)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Zahn's Finest	Vision of the future is Timothy Zahn's last Star Wars book, and it one of his best works. The second book in the 'Return of Thrawn' duology, the Empire has created a brilliant plan to become the dominant power in the Galaxy. As the New Republic scrambles to find what is going on, the Empire begins to gain power once again, all due to their newest weapon: Grand Admiral Thrawn. During this time, turmoil erupts over the long dead Caamas issue, pushing the NR to the brink of war. Han Solo and Lando Calrissian set off to find the rare Caamas document in the heart of imperial territory, while Luke Skywalker and Mara Jade go off into the Unknown territories to hunt down a group of clones that have been thought to have been destroyed. As the book continues, the heros are brought together in the last of the Imperial/New Republic era. <BR>I was very impressed with this book, as I was with Timothy Zahn's other books. His plots are incredibly simple yet bring the biggest challanges to the Star Wars universe. If you haven't read Zahn's works, you aren't a Star Wars fan!	2001-11-03
US	44595325	R3QVACV6APWXFH	034542848X	87344379	Star By Star (Star Wars: New Jedi Order)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The New Jedi Order continues...	Star by Star is the latest book in the New Jedi Order, and is the longest by far. The Yuuzhan Vong are pushing farther and farther into the galaxy, un-stoppable. By now, the Jedi's existance is threatened by the Yuuzhan Vong threat, along with millions of refugees.<BR>The Vong have created a new ally in their quest for the Jedi, the voxyn, a creature designed to hunt the jedi. Anakin Solo, along with Jacen and Jania Solo create a task force that will sabotage the Vong's creations. But there, will they succeed?<BR>I found Star by Star to be a great read, and a good adistion to the NJO. I was happy to see some new Jedi that had not been used much, as well as some older characters that have been making appearences. The solo children have a prominent role in the book, although one of them is no more. That is the biggest down-fall of the book, along with Han and Leia's reaction to their son's death. <BR>I was on the edge of my seat with the battle scenes that Denning created. Luke, Mara and the Rogue Squadron were excellent, and I almost whooped for joy as the New Republic won some key victories over the Yuuzahn Vong. That was really cool, with the hope that the NR might win.<BR>This book is akin to Empire Strikes Back. It has a very dark feeling to it and kind of hoplessness too. The NR kind of falls apart towards the end. <BR>The main thing that I was happy with was the fact that Troy Dennings has read the other books and that shows in the writing. The information, expessially the Yuuzhan Vong have been portrayed well, not at all like in the first book, Vector Prime. We see the Vong better as the series goes on. <BR>Lasty, it was a good book for the series. I can't wait to read the ones that follow!	2001-11-01
US	44595325	R18Y06NJLMMYH3	0892967242	253374596	Tucker Peak	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Archer Mayor's Best so far.	I have been reading the Joe Gunther books ever since I started Ragman's Memory, and have read all of the books in the series. Being from Vermont, I can relate to the location that the books are featured in. I have also had the liberty of meeting Archer Mayor at a signing. <BR>Tucker Peak is the latest book in his Joe Gunther series, set at a fictional Ski resort in southern Vermont. There, a series of robberies and crime have occured, bringing Joe and his southern VT VBI team into the picture. They begin with a simple robbery case, and end up with a homoside one, reaveling that there is much more to the book than what meets the eye. Even from the last portion of the book, Mayor gives no indication of who is guilty and who is innocent. <BR>Mayor sets the setting, characters and plot beautifully, capturing the image that is just so close to reality that some authors struggle with. Because he is also a Vermonter, he has the chance to research for his books easily. <BR>He sets Tucker Peak very well, exposing the 'true' Vermont. Tucker Peak is a fictional ski resort, but it is real enough so that I can invision skiing down it's slopes. The towns, roads, cities and area are all familier to me, and that makes the book so much better.	2001-10-30
US	44595325	R2AODOUP1U7HUM	0380973820	530346073	From the Dust Returned: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Bradbury's finest.	I have only read a couple of Ray Bradbury's books, most notably Farenhight 451 and R is for Rocket, and was very impressed by the style of writing. <BR>'Dust Returned is undoubtably his best work so far. Apparently he has been working on the stories for almost fifty years, and it shows. While reading, he puts an incredible amount of detail in just a couple of sentances and words, truly making a masterpiece out of writing. For example, take a look at the first paragraph of the first chapter:<BR>  -At first, A Thousand Times Great Grandmre said, there was only a place on the long plain of grass and a hill on which was nothing at all but more grass and a tree that was as crooked as a fork of black lightning on which nothing grew until the town came and the House arrived.<BR>This is just part of the book, only a small piece and from that, one can see how good this long antisipated book really is. <BR>The book is about the Elliot family, and they are all gathering together in a homecoming to share emotions and stories. <BR>A wonderful book.	2001-10-30
US	44595325	R5PC5XG1Z4CV7	0743216458	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Best WWII Histories by far!	When I read this book, I felt that I was in action with the Easy company, if they were training, fighting, talking, sleeping and everything that they had done. <BR>The book is really accurate, and provides many details, all the while being written like a novel. I was very impressed on the amount of detail that Ambrose put into this epic history. <BR>The easy company is also one of the best groups to write about because they did it all. They went from D-Day to Holland and Germany.<BR>The action that was in the book kept me hooked to the last page. I am very glad that it was written!	2001-10-24
US	44595325	R1H8BGS4JCJ6E3	0743423518	305110941	Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good Story... Okay book.	Final Fantasy: The Spirit Within is a book based on the movie. While the book carries the storyline of the movie fairly well the writing is not as good as a full novel. The storyline is that earth was hit by a meteorite that carried the spirits of aliens to earth. On earth the aliens steal the spirits of the humans that they catch. As a result the human population is decimated.  Aki is a scientist that is trying to find eight spirits that can create a wave that can  force back the invaders. She is also infected by the alien threat which makes her task much more difficult.  The movie looks awsome and the book give the storyline okay but this is not the greatest movie novelization that Ihave read but it is not horrible.  If you want to find out what happens in the movie I would recommend reading it but if not see the movie when it comes out.	2001-07-05
US	44595325	R3AG7V0OABPQRU	0142000000	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad (Movie Tie-In)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Great WWII Historical	This book is about the Battle for Stalinsburg during World War II. During the five years that the author researched the battle, he interviewed hundreds of people concerning it. This provided an accurate and detailed look at the battle. The book is about the battle for Stalinsburg, with information on how the Germans advanced and attacked the city, how the Russian forces retaliated and fought. It contains some primary documents and dialouge that occured in the battles. The book catpures the horrors and thrills of battle, for both sides.  If you are looking for a movie novelization however, you may be disappointed to find that the entire movie that was based on the book was really based on the events in about five pages.  Other than that,Enemy at the Gates is an exciting read and one that I wouldn't pass up.	2001-06-11
US	44595325	R18BUT9KEZ7KYT	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A really good book.	This is the first Stephen King book that I have read, and I have to say that I was really pleased with it.  The book is in the first person view of the prison warden of the E-block, or the Green Mile, a sort of Death Row. He discribes life at the prison and how it changes with a new prisoner, John Coffey. Coffey seems to have an extrordinary healling power, and is fairly simple minded. He was charged with killing two young girls, but he didn't kill them.  The writing in the book flows smoothly, and you begin to think of the other inmates as people, not prisoners. Del, who owns Mr. Jingles the mouse, William, the Billy the Kid of the 'row and Toot Toot, the sarcastic and joker. You also meet the Wardens, Percy the Stuck-up and annoying, Brute, a large and sometimes rough guard and Paul, the narrator.  This is an excellent book and one of the best that I have read.	2001-06-05
US	44595325	R34EV1QGDMH3YQ	0345442989	164434464	Star Wars: Cloak of Deception	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Very good Book	Unlike most of the other Star Wars books, this book has a lot more politics in it. Not nearly as much action as the Rogue Squadron or Thrawn books. There is a lot of debates and things like that, so this might not be the best for you. It does have some Episode II spoilers in it so that can be another drawback to it.<BR>Along with the poltics that are in the book, there is a lot of action from the Jedi, Obi Wan and Qui Gon. They fought both on the ground and in space, making the book interesting. It flows well from scene to scene and expecially at the end, where it links up with Episode I and Shadow Hunters. Another good thing is that there are lots of cameos around in it. Jorus C'Boath(From the Thrawn Books)and Governor Tarkin for example. And there is the things between Palpatine and Valorum, and how they interact with each other. Over all, a good read, one that introduces a new view on the pre-movies era of Star Wars.	2001-05-29
US	44595325	R3PB4LYODPK2SA	0140157344	335507424	At Dawn We Slept: The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	2	7	N	N	A good book on the Peal Harbor attack	This is a very good and very detailed book on the pearl harbor attack by the Japanese. It doesn't have an American spin on the attack, for it shows what the Japanese where after and why they attacked.	2001-05-24
US	44595325	R3PRHQDN9RC549	0451197275	727386876	Saving Private Ryan: Tie In	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A great book!	This is a great book on the Normany Invastion, or D-Day. I have seen the movie,and they are both excellent!  The action and suspense is top-level, and is very accurate in the details and mind-sets of the people involved. A very good book.	2001-05-21
US	44595325	R1MRWFF6LT4PET	0786890053	252866307	Pearl Harbor	Books	4	2	5	N	N	A good look at the Pearl Harbor battle	Despite some of the reviews that I've seen, this is a really good book. The people where portrayed accuratly, and was historically correct. The Japanese where protrayed as honorable soldiers, Roosevelt was protrayed well, and was very exciting to read. Even though the storyline is based on fiction, it was a very good and exciting read.	2001-05-15
US	44595325	R23Q4OQ0UDMUXA	0786867809	998126002	Pearl Harbor: The Movie and the Moment (Newmarket Pictorial Moviebook)	Books	4	1	17	N	N	Looks good.	I am hoping that this is a movie novelization. The movie looks great and I'm looking forward to seeing it.	2001-05-07
US	44595325	R3MX34LRFRH19Z	0553568019	891099578	Rogue Squadron (Star Wars: X-Wing Series, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A good book!	This is undoubtable one of the best Star Wars books around. The series rocks! The books open up a new aspect of Star Wars that no one thought existed before. We are introduced to Wedge Antilles, Corran Horn, Tycho Celchu and the Rogue Squadron, an elite X-Wing group that is known for taking on tough missions. When the book starts off, Wedge is bringing the Rogues back together, for the Rebellion's assault on the galactic core. We see the Rogues as they go through their training and at their first missions. <BR>Stackpole's writing in this book is fast paced and exciting to read. It has a technical aspect, and a very believable view from the rebellion's armed forces. He also pulls this off by using only a couple characters from the movie, the most prominent being Wedge Antilles, who covered for Luke Skywalker in the first movie, tipped over a walker in the next and blew up the Death Star in the last. Admiral Ackbar also makes appearences. <BR>The good thing about this book is that Stackpole doesn't drag the characters into a drag and create a bubble that seems to protect the characters from everything. Instead, he kills of some of the characters.<BR>The characters, Corran Horn and the rest of the new ones are out standing. They are wonderfully crafted and interesting. They have their flaws and weaknesses, and are true to the films all the way!	2001-04-05
US	44595325	R64O3H3T2QTVE	0345428560	820833256	Dark Tide II: Ruin (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 3)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Michael Stackpoles Best	This is MS's last star wars book, and by far his best Star Wars book. It begins where Onslaught lest off, and with the Yuuzhan Vong's point of view. Leia goes to the Empire to obtain help, and Elegos A'kla goes to the YV to try to make peace. The Empire agrees to help, but Elegos is killed. Corran Horn and Ganner Rysode go to Garqi where they find that the Yuuzhan Vong's armor is allergic to Baffor Tree pollen. The YV go to Ithor to destory this pollen, and meet up with the New Republic and the Imperial forces. They have a long battle and by the end, well, you'll have to read it to find out.	2001-04-05
US	44595325	R38K5VV9PUXQFI	0345428641	501288398	Edge of Victory 1:  Conquest (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	It's a great book!	This is one of the best Star Wars books that I have read! Keyes is really good at making characters come alive and can incorperate them into a book with skill.  The book it self is excellent! The fact that Keyes was able to put in religious beliefs in the Yuuzhan Vong was really cool, as well as some good Yuuzhan Vong.It was also good to see that a character that had disappered was back and in action at the end.  Again, a really good read.	2001-04-03
