US	44608252	R8E2JH4W81D9X	0758207980	964979879	You Can Say You Knew Me When	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Powerful Story	You Can Say You Knew Me When is author K.M. Soehnlein's second novel, following his well-received The World of Normal Boys. His second offering is a very grown-up story. There is considerable recreational drug use as well as unprotected sex. It's also well-told and beautifully written. Even though for much of the book I found myself wanting to slap some sense into Jamie, I couldn't help relating to him and recognizing bits of myself in him. I found myself rooting for him to get himself together. He's a very three-dimensional, realistic protagonist.<br /><br />Soehnlein has proven himself a versatile and talented author. You Can Say You Knew Me When is a powerful story of self-destruction and obsession -- and the redemptive power of love and acceptance. By the time you turn the last page, you'll feel as if you know these people intimately, and you'll be glad you met them.	2005-10-07
US	44608252	R17KX65IPLTYV3	0810856816	957829805	The Gay Male Sleuth in Print and Film: A History and Annotated Bibliography	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Must-Have for Mystery Lovers	For mystery buffs or fans of gay literature, The Gay Male Sleuth in Print and Film by Drewey Wayne Gunn is a must-have. The book is pretty evenly divided between a fascinating look at the gay male sleuth throughout history and a comprehensive bibliography of books featuring gay male sleuths.<br /><br />It's obvious that Gunn has done his homework here, and equally obvious that this is a genre he loves. While academic in nature, the book is easy to read and understand, and actually quite enjoyable. It certainly fills a void. While there have been a few other studies and bibliographies on LGBT mystery and detectives novels, they missed many titles and practically ignored books featuring gay males. There were virtually no books indexing gay male sleuths in film.<br /><br />There is much to learn in these pages, even for a writer of a gay male sleuth! For instance, did you know that the first recognizably gay detective did not appear until 1953 in an English novel The Heart in Exile by Rodney Garland? However, it was not marketed as a gay mystery and so it is often overlooked. The first actual gay sleuth presented as such appeared in 1961 in a pulp novel by Lou Rand titled The Gay Detective. It too was largely overlooked because of its pulp origins. It was only recently that gay mystery novels really took off and became truly a marketable subgenre.<br /><br />Gunn breaks his history into bite-sized sections based on authors, characters, themes, and sometimes the target audience. For instance, you'll find Bleeding Hearts listed under Teenage Sleuths (for Teenage Readers). The bibliography claims to be the most comprehensive ever offered on this subject, including more than 600 novels, over 100 movies, and nearly 20 television or video series.<br /><br />If you enjoy mysteries in general, and gay mysteries in particular, then you'll want to be sure to pick up a copy of this book. It will provide you with a reading list to last a long, long time!	2005-09-23
US	44608252	R1B7FF7W2EDPOC	0060567309	738679006	Order of the Poison Oak, The	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Strong Sequel	\\"Yeah, yeah, sticks and stones can break my bones, but words can never hurt me. First of all, anyone who thinks words can't hurt you has obviously never taken sophomore P.E. And second, did it ever occur to whoever wrote that stupid adage that hurtful words might be a pretty good indication that sticks and stones are on the way? It's not like it's an either or thing.\\"<br /><br />Russel Middlebrook can't wait for summer to arrive. Ever since he came out at school, life has been a living hell. He just wishes he could get away to someplace where nobody knows he's gay. So when Gunnar, one of his best friends, tells him about his summer job as a camp counselor, Russ signs on as well. He's thrilled when their other best friend, Min, becomes a counselor as well. He's sure the three of them will have a magical summer at the lake.<br /><br />Everything is going well until his first group of campers arrives and he finds himself with a cabin full of ten-year-old burn survivors. He wants to feel sorry for them, but their wild antics won't allow it. It seems like the more he tries to exercise his authority, the more they misbehave -- and he has no idea who to regain control and earn their respect.<br /><br />As if that isn't enough, Gunnar has decided that he's destined to never have a girlfriend so he might as well stop trying. He refuses to listen no matter how hard Russel tries to convince him that he's found the perfect girl for him. Then there's Web Bastion, one of the most beautiful guys Russ has ever seen. The only problem is Min thinks so too -- and they're both going after him. Before long, neither of his friends are speaking to him, his campers are out of control, and there's a very real danger building on the other side of the lake.<br /><br />The Order of the Poison Oak is Brent Hartinger's sequel to his best-selling young adult novel Geography Club. The book continues the story of Russel Middlebrook, an appealing and engaging protagonist. Once again, Hartinger really captures the feel of teenage life. His characters feel real. They aren't perfect. They make mistakes and they feel pain, but he doesn't let them get bogged down by their emotions. A witty barb is always waiting right around the corner.<br /><br />I was especially impressed with his handling of the burn survivors, both the campers and fellow counselor Otto. This storyline could have easily become maudlin and sappy, but he kept it crisp and authentic.<br /><br />Hartinger has proven himself a master in the YA genre, achieving mainstream success and many accolades. While his books are aimed primarily at a teen audience, kids of all ages will love his realistic and relatable tales of teenaged angst. Hartinger writes with a conversational flare -- you almost feel as if Russel himself is relating the story to you. At times, this wears a little thin, but over all it works well for the story. We need more books like this available for teens, both LGBT and straight.<br /><br />If you enjoyed Geography Club, then The Order of the Poison Oak is a must-read. And if you haven't read Geography Club, what are you waiting for?er really captures the feel of teenage life. His characters feel real. They aren't perfect. They make mistakes and they feel pain, but he doesn't let them get bogged down by their emotions. A witty barb is always waiting right around the corner.  <br /> <br />I was especially impressed with his handling of the burn survivors, both the campers and fellow counselor Otto. This storyline could have easily become maudlin and sappy, but he kept it crisp and authentic. <br /> <br />Hartinger has proven himself a master in the YA genre, achieving mainstream success and many accolades. While his books are aimed primarily at a teen audience, kids of all ages will love his realistic and relatable tales of teenaged angst. Hartinger writes with a conversational flare -- you almost feel as if Russel himself is relating the story to you. At times, this wears a little thin, but over all it works well for the story. We need more books like this available for teens, both LGBT and straight. <br /> <br />If you enjoyed Geography Club, then The Order of the Poison Oak is a must-read. And if you haven't read Geography Club, what are you waiting for?	2005-09-09
US	44608252	R28WAKUP6C3GAV	076791841X	983074093	How I Paid for College: A Novel of Sex, Theft, Friendship & Musical Theater (Teen's Top 10 (Awards))	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Light, Summer Read	How I Paid for College is a light, entertaining read with a few laugh-out-loud moments. The author, syndicated columnist Marc Acito, tries hard to be funny, but sometimes he tries too hard. He uses broad stereotypes for much of his humor, targeting Italians, Jews, and gays most frequently. Acito is at his best when he's exploring Edward's confused feelings about life, family, and his burgeoning interest in his hunky friend Doug.<br /><br />Most of the characters are likeable enough, but they all seem to come from the stock characters' warehouse. We have the overweight drama queen best friend, the brilliant-but-nerdy Jewish neighbor, the sweet-but-dumb jock, the stoic lesbian, etc. We've even seen the charming, but somewhat feckless Edward before in characters like Ferris Bueller. Despite the familiarity with the types, Acito does manage to make them all come alive.<br /><br />Acito doesn't break any new ground here, but How I Paid for College is a quick, enjoyable read, perfect for a lazy summer day at the beach or by the pool.	2005-06-08
US	44608252	R26B5ZESLN76GU	1932133402	557006263	The Phoenix	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderfully Entertaining Novel	Set in Victorian England and America, The Phoenix is a wonderfully entertaining novel by first-time author Ruth Sims. Sims' language is elegant and economical. There's not a wasted word to be found, yet she creates beautifully vivid imagery. As you read Ruth Sims' book, you fully dwell in her world.<br /><br />Her characters are so real you can hear them breathing, and not just the main characters of Kit and Nick. Even her supporting characters are richly drawn and entirely human. Perhaps because she is a female author, she also avoids the trap into which too many gay books seem to fall prey: underwritten female characters. Every voice in the story speaks with authenticity.<br /><br />The story itself spans many years and two continents, but she accomplishes this daunting task with aplomb. Sims even manages to catch me by surprise with an unexpected twist or two. My only complaint is that the book ended. I eagerly look forward to more from Ruth Sims, a self-described cookie-baking Midwestern grandma.	2005-05-12
US	44608252	R2T3PO7KTWQZJB	1590210190	742118999	Heterophobia	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Amazing Contemporary Voice	I don't pretend to be an expert on poetry. Like most art, it's more a case of \\"I can tell what I like.\\" Well I really liked Heterophobia, Ragan Fox's first collection of his uniquely funny and moving poems.<br /><br />Fox's poetry is meant to be performed, a fact that is quickly evidenced by his clever manipulation of the English language. Some practically beg to be read aloud, just so you can fully appreciate the rhythm and wit of his art. His subjects range widely, from a scathingly hilarious attack on an ex-boyfriend's manhood (David Cart-wrong), to a wickedly sharp condemnation of the suburbs (Suburbia), to the tear-jerking title piece that flips homophobia on its ear. Fox is unafraid to tackle any subject. He writes with equal brilliance about violence, sex, and family.<br /><br />Ragan Fox is an accomplished performance artist, winning awards for his solo productions, yet his poetry does not suffer in translation. The power and impact of his words shine through clearly from the page.	2005-04-07
US	44608252	RS86Q9P6M2DN0	075820616X	361062878	The Trouble Boy: A Novel	Books	5	1	4	N	N	No Trouble Here	Toby Griffin is determined to prove to himself--and his parents--that he can make it on his own in New York City. Fresh out of college, Toby's dream is to be a screenwriter. His parents, both wildly successful at a young age, have high expectations of their only child. Those expectations don't include a career in writing. \\"I'm afraid you're living in a fantasy world,\\" his father tells him.<br /><br />In some ways, Toby's father is right. Toby's job writing club reviews for a trendy website throws him into the glitzy, sometimes gritty, nightlife of the City. Things become even more fantasylike when the website folds and Toby lands a plush job as personal assistant to Cameron Cole, an infamous gay film mogul. He suddenly finds himself in the world of movie stars, violence, sex, and drugs.<br /><br />Thanks to Cameron's influence, everything seems to be falling into place for Toby--but at what price? Will he sell his soul to sell his screenplay?<br /><br />The answers to the questions in his personal life aren't coming any easier. Toby is tiring of the endless string of one-night stands with virtual strangers he knows only by descriptive tags: Loft Boy, Real World Guy, Goth Boy. He longs for something more, but can he find it in a world that seems to value lust over love?<br /><br />The Trouble Boy is Tom Dolby's debut novel. At first glance, one might be tempted to write off Boy as a frothy, gay version of a chick-lit book--a sort of gay sex in the city. While there's plenty of sex, fashion, pop-culture references, and name dropping, there's also a lot more happening beneath the surface. At heart, this is a book about a young man finding himself.<br /><br />Dolby writes with great flair and wit. You come to care deeply about his young protagonist despite his mistakes and bad choices. Even at his worse, you fully understand Toby's motivations--a true testament to Dolby's skill. Dolby himself is a young writer, and I hope we can expect much more from this talented author in the year's to come.alented author in the year's to come.	2005-03-04
US	44608252	R18IF3C9LIXEYE	0802141293	66882361	Troll: A Love Story	Books	2	26	37	N	N	A Disturbing Tale with a Tail	It is my general policy not to write a negative review of a book. As an author, I try to support other writers and not tear them down. However, I occasionally make an exception, and Troll is one of them. I decided to write this after I committed to reviewing all the short-listed Gaylactic Spectrum Award nominees for Best Novel, and because I have yet to read or hear anything negative about this book. I think it's time another point of view is heard.<br /><br />First published in Finland where it won the coveted Finlandia Prize for best novel, and then translated into English, Troll has received almost nothing but praise. The book came to me highly recommended, but I simply hated it. My first challenge was the writing. The style is simple and direct, almost too simple at times. It's also written in the present tense, an unusual choice and, for many readers, rather disconcerting. It's not an easy book to get into. The highlight for me was the alternating chapters that were \\"taken\\" from various resources on trolls. The encyclopedia and book entries were so well-written that you almost believed that trolls could be real. If only the actual story was that compelling.<br /><br />I found the story itself to be extremely disturbing. The author goes out of her way early in the book to establish that Pessi is a wild animal on a par with a gorilla, and a juvenile animal at that. When the mounting sexual attraction culminates in a sex scene of sorts, I wanted to throw the book across the room and wash my eyes out with soap. In the end, the author tries to challenge your thoughts on what is culturally acceptable and warn you against making pre-judgments, but I thought the attempt was clumsy at best. Even if you assume that trolls are the equivalent of humans and therefore Angel is not into bestiality, he would still be a [...] since it was well-established that Pessi is immature, barely more than a toddler from the descriptions. Other readers have addressed none of these issues, so I can only assume that they only bothered me.<br /><br />There is no doubt that this is an unusual and original book, but that doesn't necessarily mean it is good.ssume that they only bothered me.     There is no doubt that this is an unusual and original book, but that doesn't necessarily mean it is good.	2005-01-07
US	44608252	R1J51TM4YTA8C0	0759681708	712699607	From the Ashes	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Magical Book	The magic of Renaissance faires is that, for a few weekends a year, you can visit times far past and lose yourself in the world of the rennies, the people who become the peasants, nobles, gypsies and thieves populating the medieval villages. There's plenty of that magic in Meghan Brunner's From the Ashes. There's also plenty of real Magick.<br /><br />Ryna is a gypsy, as unlucky in love as she is talented in music. Her fiery red hair matches her temper. She grew up in Renaissance faires, and her family is a group of gypsies that travels year-round as full-time rennies. She takes the magic--and the Magick--that surrounds her almost for granted. She's recently had her heart broken by the dashing, yet sinister, Liam.<br /><br />It's Bea's first year at the Pendragon Renaissance Faire and everything is still novel and wondrous for her. While Bea is still a newbie, her character Phoenix is already fitting in as if she'd always been there. When Ryna and Bea meet, it's as if they've known each other forever. The two quickly form a close friendship, and Ryna begins to see the faire--and life-through new eyes.<br /><br />Someone isn't happy about their burgeoning relationship, however, and dark forces are being drawn into play to keep them apart--forces that have been at work for longer than anyone could possibly suspect.<br /><br />From the Ashes is Brunner's first novel, and it's an impressive debut. Brunner self-published the massive doorstop of a book, but don't let that intimidate you. While she could have benefited from a good editor in places, her spirited writing draws you in and surpasses any flaws. Her descriptions are priceless, bringing the world of the faire alive even if you've never been to one before. I laughed out loud over and over at the antics of the peasants. Her depictions of everyday life in the faire were the highlights of the book for me. It made me eager to attend a Renaissance faire.<br /><br />I also enjoyed her use of Magick, which is such a part of the character's everyday life that they barely think about it. They use their gifts to do things like lock doors after they're already in bed and open doors when their arms are full. This approach gave the supernatural elements a much more realistic feel. I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys magical realism and good, hearty sheep jokes.uch a part of the character's everyday life that they barely think about it. They use their gifts to do things like lock doors after they're already in bed and open doors when their arms are full. This approach gave the supernatural elements a much more realistic feel. I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys magical realism and good, hearty sheep jokes.	2004-10-14
US	44608252	R5ZCT2FIF54NV	0312312113	397460367	Lust: Four Letters. Infinite Possibilities.	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Thought Provoking and Entertaining	Imagine discovering that you have the power to create a temporary copy of anyone in the world alive or dead-and they will be yours to command. You can make them desire you, work for you, tell you their deepest, darkest secrets. What would you do with such a gift? Or is it a curse?<br /><br />This has become the reality for Michael Blasco, a mild-mannered research scientist. When he first conjures up a copy of his hunky gym instructor on a train platform, Michael fears for his sanity. He quickly realizes, however, that the copies are every bit as real as the original, complete with intelligence and awareness-at least while they exist. With just a thought, Michael can end their existence as easily as he brought them into being. Once they are gone, nothing remains of them except Michael's memories.<br /><br />While he first sees it all as a sort of game for his own amusement, as time goes on, Michael begins to wonder why he has this strange ability. The book takes a more serious turn as Michael searches for answers and explores the morality of the situation.<br /><br />What at first seems to be a wet-dream come true gradually turns into a nightmare as Michael realizes that there are consequences to his actions with the copies. His long-term relationship is crumbling, he neglects his research project, the originals seem to retain some memory of what their copies do, and not all copies appreciate being brought back from the dead.<br /><br />Lust is an amazingly original and thought-provoking concept. It could have turned into a prurient tale in the hands of a lesser author, but Geoff Ryman's strong writing more than pulls it off. The story both entertains and causes us to think about the consequences of our actions. I had a little trouble getting into Ryman's style, but about a third of the way into the book it really takes off and I was left holding on for the rest of the ride. Ryman brings historic and well-known characters to life with shocking plausibility. I especially enjoyed the visits from Billie Holiday and Pablo Picasso. Knowing a bit about both of them, I believe Ryman truly caught their spirit in their portrayals.<br /><br />Once you adjust to his style, Ryman's writing is simply stunning. His word-pictures are so accurate and vibrant that you feel as if you are seeing the story instead of just reading it. In turns humorous and touching, the book brings everything together by the end for a wonderfully satisfying read. I highly recommend this book.. I especially enjoyed the visits from Billie Holiday and Pablo Picasso. Knowing a bit about both of them, I believe Ryman truly caught their spirit in their portrayals.  <br /> <br />Once you adjust to his style, Ryman's writing is simply stunning. His word-pictures are so accurate and vibrant that you feel as if you are seeing the story instead of just reading it. In turns humorous and touching, the book brings everything together by the end for a wonderfully satisfying read. I highly recommend this book.	2004-10-13
US	44608252	R2KPVF1WUQ2P0K	0446533025	605663289	The Salt Roads	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Amazingly Original, Breathtakingly Beautiful	Mer, a healer and midwife, is an African slave on a sugar plantation on Saint Domingue (renamed Haiti in 1804). Jeanne Duval is an Afro-French dancer and courtesan living in Paris, and the mistress of 19th-century poet Charles Baudelaire. Meritet is a Greek-Nubian prostitute in fourth-century Egypt, better known to the world as Saint Mary. Something connects these three women across the span of time--something larger than any of these women could ever suspect.<br /><br />When three Caribbean slave women, led by Mer, come together to bury one of the women's stillborn son, their powerful grief and prayers call the attention of Ezili, an African-Caribbean goddess. Using the unused life force of the dead child, Ezili moves back and forth across time, possessing and working her will through various bodies.<br /><br />Jeanne is one of the goddess' most frequent vehicles--mainly because Ezili finds herself inexplicably tethered to the beautiful French dancer. She is free to inhabit other bodies only when Jeanne, slowly dying of syphilis, is in a deep dream state. Ezili plants the seeds of revolution in Saint Domingue through Mer, and sends Meritet on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem.<br /><br />What all these women have in common is salt--in all its various forms. Whether the salt of tears, the salt of the ocean, or the salt of sweat, the goddess travels the Salt Roads to accomplish her goal. The question is \\"What is her goal?\\" Not even Ezili fully understands at first, but as she grows more powerful, and comes to know the many aspects of herself, all is revealed--both to her and the reader.<br /><br />Author Nalo Hopkinson beautifully weaves her stories together in a broken narrative, jumping back and forth through time and between characters. Some readers may have a little difficulty finding the rhythm of her storytelling, but the reward for their perseverance is great. Hopkinson writes in a flowing, sensual, sometimes poetic, style, but her rich use of history keeps the book grounded in realism. While the stories of the three women are often heartbreaking, Hopkinson skillfully breaks up the sometimes heavy narrative with light touches of humor sprinkled throughout--the way a good chef uses salt.<br /><br />Ultimately uplifting and filled with hope, The Salt Roads is a beautiful book-one that stays with you long after you close the cover. The Salt Roads is the winner of the 2004 Gaylactic Spectrum Award for Best Novel.s the book grounded in realism. While the stories of the three women are often heartbreaking, Hopkinson skillfully breaks up the sometimes heavy narrative with light touches of humor sprinkled throughout--the way a good chef uses salt. <br /> <br />Ultimately uplifting and filled with hope, The Salt Roads is a beautiful book-one that stays with you long after you close the cover. The Salt Roads is the winner of the 2004 Gaylactic Spectrum Award for Best Novel.	2004-10-13
US	44608252	RTIQFQW085N0B	0767913337	204176887	Christopher: A Tale of Seduction	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Rare Find	(...)Queer Quotient: 5 of 5<br />\\"Marry him?\\" Protagonist B.K. Troop scoffs at his Greek waitress in Allison Burnett's debut novel, Christopher, when she suggests he swallow a four-leaf clover in order to ensure he marry the object of his desire, his new neighbor and the title character of the book. \\"Good God! I only want to seduce him!\\" And that is precisely what B.K. sets out to do, despite the fact that Christopher is obviously heterosexual.<br />B.K. is a middle-aged, unemployed, bipolar, unattractive gay man. When Christopher, an aspiring novelist, moves in next door, B.K. immediately sets his sights on the lovely young man. Fresh from a failed attempt at marriage, Christopher seems ripe for the picking, but B.K. has a challenge before him-Christopher isn't interested in being seduced.  B.K. isn't the type to back down from a challenge, and he goes after Christopher with religious zeal.<br />He tries everything in his power to worm his way into Christopher's life, and he succeeds to some degree, but his goal of seducing the younger man is thwarted at every turn-often with hilarious results. The book chronicles a year in the lives of B.K. and Christopher, a year in which they both learn much about themselves. As seen through B.K.'s eyes, and related to us through his sharp, witty, and sometimes bitchy observations, Christopher develops a crush on a married waitress, delves into presidential politics, becomes involves in a New Age cult, and struggles to deal with his domineering and malevolent mother. Meanwhile, much to his horror, B.K.'s lust develops into something deeper, something he thought he would never feel-true love.<br />Christopher is a rare find-a clever, engaging book that can make you laugh out loud, but also pulls at your heart strings. Burnett, a screenwriter and film director living in Los Angeles, at times seems to be channeling the spirit of Oscar Wilde. His style is literary, but completely accessible. He has taken a character like B.K. Troop, who easily could have been extremely unlikable, and not only makes him sympathetic, but actually brings you to root for his happiness. I highly recommend this book.op, who easily could have been extremely unlikable, and not only makes him sympathetic, but actually brings you to root for his happiness. I highly recommend this book.	2004-07-05
US	44608252	R2ODI4G1NSX8BV	0060012218	103393582	Geography Club	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Promising Debut Novel	With his debut novel, Geography Club, Brent Hartinger has created a sharp, witty, and touchingly realistic look into the lives of modern gay high school students. Russel has never knowingly met another gay person in his small town. He firmly believes he's the only gay kid at his high school, and in fact, feels like he's a spy in enemy territory. When he stumbles across a gay chat room set up just for his town, he's shocked to meet another gay student from his school. They agree to meet and much to Russ' surprise, the other gay student is none other than Kevin, a popular jock.<br />That information is just too much to keep to himself so he risks coming out to Min, his best friend. Min shocks him making a confession of her own: she has a girlfriend, soccer-playing Terese. The four of them, along with Terese's activist friend Ike, decide to get together to talk about all they have in common. But where? There's seems to be no safe place that jocks, activists, and self-described intellectuals can meet together without drawing suspicion in the clique obsessed society of high school. That's when they come up with the idea to form the Geography Club. \\"We just choose a club that's so boring, nobody in their right mind would ever in a million years join it.\\"<br />The idea works at first, but when another student suddenly, and rather inexplicably, wants to join, things start to unravel. Things are further complicated by Russ' rocket-fast trip from the respectable edges of society to popularity. He suddenly finds himself faced with decisions and situations he's never imagined for himself. Will he make the right choices? What will he do to hang on to his newfound status?<br />Hartinger tackles the difficult and treacherous landscape of high school society with startling realism. I kept expecting his characters to act in the typical \\"after-school special\\" fashion for which the first part of the book seems to set them up. Much to my surprise (and pleasure) he doesn't take the easy way out. His characters feel real, and that means they don't always do the \\"right\\" thing. Hartinger's writing style, aimed specifically at young adults, is extremely accessible, and the book is a quick, but satisfying read. I think it's safe to say that we can expect more great things from Brent Hartinger, and I look forward to reading his newest release, the non-gay themed Last Chance Texaco.y way out. His characters feel real, and that means they don't always do the \\"right\\" thing. Hartinger's writing style, aimed specifically at young adults, is extremely accessible, and the book is a quick, but satisfying read. I think it's safe to say that we can expect more great things from Brent Hartinger, and I look forward to reading his newest release, the non-gay themed Last Chance Texaco.	2004-06-04
US	44608252	RXO9MG626L5Q6	1932300163	58539947	Stepping Out: Short Stories	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Powerful and Impressive Collection	With Stepping Out, popular lesbian author Lori L. Lake has crafted a charming and impressive collection of short stories. The name of the book was inspired by the fact that the characters in each story have reached a turning point in their lives, and they must now choose to step out in a new direction. Each story touched me in some way, but some more than others.<br />\\"The Bright Side\\" tells of a young woman faced with the inevitability of aging parents. \\"Everything You Learn in Kindergarten Can Ruin Your Life\\" takes us back to grammar school and the world of bullies. \\"Propane\\" is a powerful tale of domestic abuse in a same-sex relationship. In \\"Mouse\\", we come face-to-face with a homeless woman, forced onto the street when her partner passes away and the family refuses to acknowledge their relationship.<br />Lake isn't afraid to tackle the tough issues-alcoholism, physical and mental abuse, self-esteem issues, aging parents, homophobia-in her stories, but she does so without ever feeling preachy or confrontational. Her stories are filled with grace, second chances, and self-discovery. All of her characters are fully-realized, even when their stories are sometimes less than ten pages. You feel as if you are being afforded brief (sometimes too brief!) glimpses into the lives of real people-people who could be your neighbors, your friends, or even your relatives. Her writing style is very accessible; the stories quickly draw you in and make you care about their protagonists.<br />Everyone who reads this book will have their favorites. Mine were \\"Busybody\\", \\"Defending Angels\\", and \\"Jumping Over My Head.\\" In \\"Busybody\\", an aging lesbian couple tries to live their lives in peace and privacy while fending off the well-meaning but unwelcome interference of loved ones and neighbors. However, the couple gains a new perspective by the story's end. \\"Defending Angels\\" tells the emotionally charged story of a young man trying to rebuild his life in the aftermath of an abusive father and an unsuccessful suicide attempt. Of the fourteen stories in this collection, \\"Jumping Over My Head\\" felt the most personal to me. It is a story of overcoming self-perception, of the power of having one person who believes in you-and having faith in yourself.<br />While those three especially stood out to me, I believe this book will have something for everyone. In these fourteen short stories, Lori L. Lake, also the author of the popular Gun series, as well as her most recent novel, the well-received Different Dress, shows off her versatility and considerable talent. I highly recommend this book.father and an unsuccessful suicide attempt. Of the fourteen stories in this collection, \\"Jumping Over My Head\\" felt the most personal to me. It is a story of overcoming self-perception, of the power of having one person who believes in you-and having faith in yourself.<br />While those three especially stood out to me, I believe this book will have something for everyone. In these fourteen short stories, Lori L. Lake, also the author of the popular Gun series, as well as her most recent novel, the well-received Different Dress, shows off her versatility and considerable talent. I highly recommend this book.	2004-06-04
US	44608252	RSWYJD41G6XB7	0553280341	610600590	B Is for Burglar (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Entertaining and fun	Grafton continues to develop and expand on Kinsey's character with the second book in her series.  Its been less than 2 weeks since the events of &quot;'A' is For Alibi&quot;, when Kinsey is approached by a new client, who needs her to locate her missing sister, so she can recieve her portion of a late relatives estate.  When Kinsey cant find any evidence that points to where the sister has dissapeared to, she suggests going to the police, and her client promply fires her, but she continues to persue the case anyway.  Grafton deftly takes us through many twists and turns on the way to solving the mystery, which once again culmunates in Kinsey nearly getting herself killed.<br />  A very well told story, that keeps the reader interested, but is very similar to the first book in the series.  Kinsey continues to grow and develop throughout this book, and I can't wait to see what happenes to her next	2004-05-15
US	44608252	R2AJUBJVSUT75X	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Its a wonderful world	The first novel in the Green Rider series is amazing.  The world author Kristen Britain creates in her first novel is original and very enjoyable.  Karigan is running away from school when she crosses paths with a dying Green Rider, one of the King's messengers.  With his dying words, he convinces her that she must finish his mission and deliver his message to the King.  As the story progresses we discover, along with Karigan, that the King's brother is in league with an immortal sorcerer bent on dominating humans. While not quite on the same level as early Mercedes Lackey, or Lynn Flewelling, Britain's first novel is an engaging, fun read, and I can't wait to read more from this new author.	2004-05-09
US	44608252	R6P566XOA9O0H	0755100719	325550300	The Malacia Tapestry	Books	1	9	25	N	N	Dont Waste Your Time	Aldiss should stick to science fiction.  I only managed to read 108 pages of this crap, until I just couldn't take it anymore.  In those 108 pages nothing interesting happened.  Actor Chirolo is a woman-hungry, out of work actor, and we spend the entire time following him around on his sexual conquests.  If I wanted to read about sex with random women, I would read a romance novel, not fantasy.<br />Throughout the book its easy to see that Aldiss is a sci-fi writer through the way he writes, and his descriptions.  His writing style is very mechanical, and while it may work with science fiction, its horrible for a fantasy book. Don't waste your time reading this unless you have nothing better to do.	2004-05-09
US	44608252	R1Z7PT49FGJ3IQ	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not too bad	Xenocide is not quite up to par with the previous books in the Ender Series.  It starts off slowly, with Jane cutting off ansible communications with the fleet that has been sent to attack the colony on Luisitania, and doesn't really start to get interesting until over 100 pages into the book.  From the 100 page mark it does become an enjoyable read.<br />A God-spoken girl on the world of Path is set the task of finding out why they lost contact with the fleet, while the people of Luisitania search for a way to stop the Descolata from killing them and all of humanity by keeping the Pequinoes confined to just one planet.  Through their separate searches, many amazing and terrifying things are discovered.  The frightening purpose of the Descolata is discovered, as is the reason behind the God-spoken of Path.  All of these discoveries help to add tension and excitement to an otherwise pretentious book.<br />The story leaves many questions unanswered, and the survival of the human colony is in doubt, as the whole universe seems to be pushing for its destruction.  With the first books in this series, all this seemed fresh and new, if not a little overbearing, but now it's just getting old.  The story seems a little forced in places, and it's not as fun as its predecessors.	2004-05-09
US	44608252	RNYMFZNQ7FULY	0553577255	726290076	Traitor's Moon (Nightrunner, Vol. 3)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	A Welcome Return to Flewelling's World	Continuing her well-received Nightrunner Series, Lynn Flewelling's Traitor's Moon picks up two years after the end of Stalking Darkness. Lovers Seregil and Alec have spent the intervening time in a self-imposed exile in the wilderness of Skala, but while they have been far from the intrigues of court life, the bitter war with the Plenimarans has continued unabated. Skala is facing almost certain defeat, and the dying Queen Idrilain sees only one hope for salvation. They must renew their alliance with Aurenen, the mysterious and mystical land to the south.<br />The Queen is sending her youngest daughter, Princess Klia, along with one of her best military leaders, Beka Cavish, but they need an escort, someone who understands this strange land in which outsiders, or Tirfaie, have not been welcomed for centuries. That's where Seregil comes in. He is an exile of Aurenen, forced to leave as a young man for a crime of which he has never spoken. Idrilain has negotiated his return on very strict conditions, and Beka manages to convince a very reluctant Seregil to accompany them back to his homeland.<br />Alec, who is part Aurenfaie, is thrilled to be journeying to Aurenen, Seregil is decidedly less so. The land holds many memories for him, both happy and dark. As Alec learns more about their shared heritage, he learns much about his lover's hidden past as well. He needs to learn quickly however, because things are very different in Aurenen, and Klia will need all the help she can get on her diplomatic mission. The Aurenfaie live very long lives, so they see things quite differently. They take longer to make decisions. The problem is Skala doesn't have a lot of time. Things are getting worse on the battlefront daily, and a decision must be reached soon. Ancient intrigues threaten to sideline their work, and when a Skalan delegate is found dead, it's up to Seregil and Alec to work their master spy skills to save the mission-and Princess Klia-from certain doom.<br />Traitor's Moon is the third book in this series, and it differs from the first two in several significant ways. Seregil and Alec are finally a couple after their cautious and awkward courtship that spanned the first two books(...). Flewelling compensates for this well by exploring their untested relationship as they journey into Aurenen together, and by throwing in a new dose of romance with Beka and a suspicious Aurefaie guide. This book is also less action driven and therefore reads a little slower. It feels more like a political thriller than the swashbuckling adventures of the first two installments. Still, it was such a pleasure for me to return to old friends like Seregil and Alec that I loved every minute of it. Flewelling is a masterful writer and her world building skills and character development are on a par with the best in Fantasy. I was sorry to see the book end, and I'm already looking forward to the next book, to be released hopefully in 2005.oon is the third book in this series, and it differs from the first two in several significant ways. Seregil and Alec are finally a couple after their cautious and awkward courtship that spanned the first two books(...). Flewelling compensates for this well by exploring their untested relationship as they journey into Aurenen together, and by throwing in a new dose of romance with Beka and a suspicious Aurefaie guide. This book is also less action driven and therefore reads a little slower. It feels more like a political thriller than the swashbuckling adventures of the first two installments. Still, it was such a pleasure for me to return to old friends like Seregil and Alec that I loved every minute of it. Flewelling is a masterful writer and her world building skills and character development are on a par with the best in Fantasy. I was sorry to see the book end, and I'm already looking forward to the next book, to be released hopefully in 2005.	2004-04-20
US	44608252	R2354FTI9VLLXO	0670032891	260413038	The Well of Lost Plots: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Satisfying Thursday Next Novel	Author Jasper Fforde continues to prove himself as one of the more creative, clever and original authors of our time with his third book in the Thursday Next series, The Well of Lost Plots. At the end of the last book, Thursday had escaped from the evil corporation Goliath by entering the Book World, the secret universe that exists inside books where fictional characters are more real than the Outsiders who read about them. She is hiding out in the Character Exchange Program, living inside a rather awful, unpublished detective novel. She is hoping to simply have her baby and remember her non-existent husband. (He was eradicated by Goliath.)<br />Things seldom work out as Thursday plans, however, and she soon finds herself being drawn out of her restful existence. Things start to turn when she is asked by the characters in her book to help them save their novel from being scrapped for salvage. Then there's the dangerous would of Jurisfiction agents. She is still apprenticed to Miss Havisham, of Dickens fame, and her final exam looms. Before she can become a full agent, several other agents are murdered in a ghastly fashion, and it seems that only Thursday and Miss Havisham are willing to seek the truth. Soon, they find that they are targets as well. Will they be able to solve the murders before they end up victims? Will Thursday be able to save the book she has come to call home? And what about those cryptic prophecies from the three witches? As Thursday tries to answer those questions-and more-she journeys from book to book, everything from Sense and Sensibility to Wuthering Heights to Alice in Wonderland. In the end, though, all she really wants is to return to the real world with her life, baby, and husband...and her memory.<br />As in his first two books, Fforde maintains a brilliantly witty tone throughout the whole story. I laughed out loud so many times I lost count. The Well of Lost Plots feels less structured than his earlier books, and actually reads more like a series of short stories that are loosely connected at best. While it's not as well-plotted as The Eyre Affair and Lost in a Good Book, it is still a deliciously fun read, especially for fans of literature. He sprinkles his narrative with so many inside jokes that I'm sure I only caught a small fraction. He also offers up a sharp satire of the publishing world with the Grand Text Central's proposed upgrade to the suspicious UltraWord™, a system that promises to be \\"the ultimate reading experience\\" but may be something less than advertised. Jasper Fforde has proven himself once again to be a truly original fantasy writer.<br />Highly recommended.like a series of short stories that are loosely connected at best. While it's not as well-plotted as The Eyre Affair and Lost in a Good Book, it is still a deliciously fun read, especially for fans of literature. He sprinkles his narrative with so many inside jokes that I'm sure I only caught a small fraction. He also offers up a sharp satire of the publishing world with the Grand Text Central's proposed upgrade to the suspicious UltraWord™, a system that promises to be \\"the ultimate reading experience\\" but may be something less than advertised. Jasper Fforde has proven himself once again to be a truly original fantasy writer. <br />Highly recommended.	2004-04-20
US	44608252	R1QHXTBBA1HE1N	0618304002	492045478	The Book of Salt: A Novel	Books	5	9	12	N	N	A Beautiful Book	With The Book of Salt, author Monique Truong has created a beautiful and fascinating glimpse into the lives of two of the most iconic lesbians to have ever lived: Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas. Yet, their story is not told through either of these amazing women, but instead through their Vietnamese cook, B&igrave;nh-a young man struggling with many secrets and inner demons.<br />Having fled from Vietnam in disgrace, B&igrave;nh finds himself in Paris. The year is 1929 and he has been through a succession of brief, miserable positions as a household cook. While perusing the help-wanted section, he spots an intriguing ad: \\"Two American ladies wish to retain a cook...\\" He decides to apply, and his life will never be the same.<br />Truong tells the story of B&igrave;nh's life in a mosaic of scenes, moving back and forth chronologically, revealing a little at a time until the puzzle is complete. Through the telling, we are treated to an intimate glance into the private lives of Stein and Toklas. Truong's writing is gorgeous, almost poetic at times. You almost feel a sense of loss when you reach the final page. I highly recommend this book.	2004-03-18
US	44608252	R3P6R3Q8Q195CV	1555835929	99972846	The Book of Lies: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Stunning Writing Overcomes Ending	Part literary mystery, part history lesson, Felice Picano's The Book of Lies, turned out to be a surprisingly engrossing read. Ross Ohrenstedt is a young, ambitious academic, teaching a summer literature course at UCLA while cataloging the papers and manuscripts of famous Purple Circle author, Damon Van Slyke. Van Slyke and his group of writer friends were the founders of modern gay literature, and, as such, subjects of much study. While sorting the papers, Ross runs across a mysterious manuscript written by an unknown writer. He sees an opportunity to make his name with his doctoral thesis, and begins to investigate the manuscript. As he talks to the surviving Purple Circle authors and the others' survivors, he finds more tantalizing fragments that seem to point to one man, forgotten by history, who may have been intimately linked to every Circle member. Who was that man? And who is attempting to keep Ross from finding the truth?<br />Picano, author of 20 books, is in reality one of the founding members of modern gay literature. He was one of the members of the real-life gay literary salon, the Lavender Quill, a group that includes Andrew Holleran, Robert Ferro, Edmund White, and George Whitmore. Much of The Book of Lies was roughly based on his experiences in the Lavender Quill. Picano is a master at creating fascinating characters. Even secondary characters come complete with richly-detailed histories. His attention to detail serves especially well in recreating the gay society of the 60's and 70's in which members of the fictional Purple Circle (and assumedly, the real members of the Lavender Quill) lived and moved. Full of wit and humor, the dark tone of the ending caught me by surprise and, I have to admit, disappointed me somewhat. While it seemed to come from nowhere, he has laid the groundwork for his shocking d&eacute;nouement all along if you know what to look for. Despite feeling somewhat cheated by the ending, I still admire the whole of the book and how masterfully Picano weaves the pieces together. He uses words powerfully, and I was especially moved by a section in a later chapter where one of the characters speaks with great eloquence about loss. I highly recommend this book.erfully Picano weaves the pieces together. He uses words powerfully, and I was especially moved by a section in a later chapter where one of the characters speaks with great eloquence about loss. I highly recommend this book.	2004-02-09
US	44608252	RHKLZFWQ4D70R	0553575422	391056416	Luck in the Shadows (Nightrunner, Vol. 1)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	An Incredible Tale of Adventure	Luck in the Shadows, the first book of Flewelling's Nightrunner Series, is, quite simply, a masterpiece of modern fantasy. It rocketed to the top of my list of all-time favorite books and cemented Flewelling as one of my favorite authors. Subsequent reading of her others books has only confirmed that initial impression.<br />Luck tells the story young Alec of Kerry, a poor peasant taken prisoner by a mad lord for a crime he didn't commit. He fully expects to be tortured to death, but his fate takes a sudden unexpected turn when his fellow cellmate turns out to be Seregil of Rhiminee, a master spy, thief, and noble. When Seregil escapes, he takes Alec with him, although he's not even sure why himself. Alec eventually becomes Seregil's apprentice and they find themselves embroiled in a plot by a neighboring warring country to invade Seregil's home kingdom of Skala. Seregil is on a mission for the Queen and after a \\"routine\\" break-in in which Seregil steals some innocuous seeming tokens; they find themselves on the run from an army with Seregil being affected by some sort of dark magic. As Seregil slowly slips into madness, Alec tries desperately to get his new friend to the wizard Nysander, who Seregil had told him was his only hope.<br />Nysander manages to save Seregil, but there is still much intrigue to unravel, as there are spies and turncoats within the Skalan nobility to be uncovered, dark magic to thwart, and a war to avoid at all costs.<br />Flewelling has created a richly detailed world that is very different from many other fantasy depictions. It is completely plausible and she's left nothing out. But even more impressive than her world-building, is her character development. With Seregil and Alec, she has created two of the most three-dimensional and thoroughly likeable characters I've ever had the pleasure of meeting in a book. They are completely realistic and by the time you come to know them, you feel they are old friends. Her secondary characters are just as well-drawn and fully-realized. Even her bad guys are richly detailed, not the mere one-dimensional \\"evil people\\" to which so many fantasy writers resort. Her plot more than lives up to the world and its characters, delivering a rip-roaring adventure filled with magic and mystery, all the while deftly weaving in the beginnings of a very subtle romance.<br />She even manages the difficult task of writing a satisfying ending while leaving the door open to continue the series. I believe time will prove Flewelling to be a giant in the genre. I look forward to reading her books for years to come.just as well-drawn and fully-realized. Even her bad guys are richly detailed, not the mere one-dimensional \\"evil people\\" to which so many fantasy writers resort. Her plot more than lives up to the world and its characters, delivering a rip-roaring adventure filled with magic and mystery, all the while deftly weaving in the beginnings of a very subtle romance.<br />She even manages the difficult task of writing a satisfying ending while leaving the door open to continue the series. I believe time will prove Flewelling to be a giant in the genre. I look forward to reading her books for years to come.	2003-07-30
US	44608252	R3GJAK7YTGAUOB	0756401356	805995001	The War of the Flowers (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very Enjoyable Read	Fantasy has long been one of my favorite genres, ever since I stumbled across Madeline L'Engle as a young child. Over the years, I've leaned more towards the Lynn Flewelling and Mercedes Lackey style of fantasy as opposed to the dungeons and dragons sort. I picked up THE WAR OF THE FLOWERS by Tad Williams recently because his books have been catching my attention for some time, but I'd never taken the time to read one. I'm very glad now that I did.<br />THE WAR OF THE FLOWERS tells the story of Theo, a thirty year old musician and part-time flower deliveryman. When we meet Theo, his life seems to have come to a dead end. Despite lots of potential, his music career is going nowhere fast, his long time girlfriend Cat has just broken up with him after a tragic miscarriage, and he just found out his mother, with whom he has never been close, is dying of cancer. He moves in with his mother to care for her and after she passes away, he finds a strange letter from a long-lost great uncle among her belongings. The letter leads him to a safety deposit box that contains only a battered copy of what seems to be a fantasy novel begun by his eccentric relative. The book tells of a land called Faerie that doesn't exist on earth, but rather in a sort of alternate magical universe that is linked to the world as Theo knows it.<br />Little does Theo know that Faerie was not just a figment of his great uncle's imagination, and that he is connected to this strange world in ways he can not even begin to imagine. The rulers of Faerie are the Flower Lords, fairies of the highest class. For the most part, they are a corrupt lot, using and abusing the other \\"lower\\" forms of fairies. They are divided into three political factions: The Symbiotes, the most liberal party--they believe that fairies and mortals can coexist; the Excisors, the most conservative party--they believe that mortals must be destroyed into order for Faerie to prosper; and the Coextensives, a kind of middle-of-the-road party. When one of the powerful Excisors sends an evil spirit after Theo, one of the Symbiotes decides to counter their move.<br />Enter Applecore, a sassy six-inch sprite with attitude to spare. She pops into Theo's kitchen just in time to rescue him from the evil Irrha sent by the Excisors. As Theo tumbles through the gate into Faerie, he finds a land that was nothing like he'd ever imagined, and a land very different from the one his great uncle had described in his book. Much has changed in the intervening years as Faerie has intentionally mirrored mortal society. They live in a strangely modern world powered by magic, which they call science. Theo quickly discovers that everyone seems to think he has an important role to play in the inevitable Flower War, but he just can't understand what it could be.<br />Williams has created a richly detailed world that I found very original and creative. The plot was somewhat predictable at times, and not quite as original as the world he created, but it was still a very enjoyable read. His characters are especially deep and complicated. You can't help liking Theo, even as you wish he would just grow up. There were some elements of the story that I wished Williams had expanded on, especially the domination and enslavement of the Goblins, but considering his story was already running near 700 pages I can understand why he didn't. Still, maybe he should have broken it into two volumes and explored these potentially interesting stories more fully. I found the ending very satisfying, but he left enough loose ends to justify a sequel, which I for one, would love to see.rty. When one of the powerful Excisors sends an evil spirit after Theo, one of the Symbiotes decides to counter their move. <br />Enter Applecore, a sassy six-inch sprite with attitude to spare. She pops into Theo's kitchen just in time to rescue him from the evil Irrha sent by the Excisors. As Theo tumbles through the gate into Faerie, he finds a land that was nothing like he'd ever imagined, and a land very different from the one his great uncle had described in his book. Much has changed in the intervening years as Faerie has intentionally mirrored mortal society. They live in a strangely modern world powered by magic, which they call science. Theo quickly discovers that everyone seems to think he has an important role to play in the inevitable Flower War, but he just can't understand what it could be. <br />Williams has created a richly detailed world that I found very original and creative. The plot was somewhat predictable at times, and not quite as original as the world he created, but it was still a very enjoyable read. His characters are especially deep and complicated. You can't help liking Theo, even as you wish he would just grow up. There were some elements of the story that I wished Williams had expanded on, especially the domination and enslavement of the Goblins, but considering his story was already running near 700 pages I can understand why he didn't. Still, maybe he should have broken it into two volumes and explored these potentially interesting stories more fully. I found the ending very satisfying, but he left enough loose ends to justify a sequel, which I for one, would love to see.	2003-07-30
US	44608252	REDQR2N1PV8FI	0553575430	90994795	Stalking Darkness (Nightrunner, Vol. 2)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	As Good or Better than the First	The second book in the Nightrunner series continues with the tales of Seregil and Alec, who we first met in LUCK IN THE SHADOWS. STALKING DARKNESS picks up where the first left off. Having been unsuccessful at avoiding a war with Plenimar, the kingdom of Skala is bracing itself for battle. But Seregil, Alec and the wizard Nysander know this is no simple war, for Plenimar plans to defeat Skala by resurrecting the evil and powerful Dead God, Seriamaius. To do this, they need to collect the various elements of the Helm of Seriamaius. Any mortal who wears the Helm will become the living incarnation of the horrible god. Nysander has been guarding one of the elements, the Plenimarans hold another, but the third is still undiscovered. Seregil is sent on a mission to find and retrieve the crystal crown so that he and Nysander can destroy it.<br />An ancient prophecy suggests that Seregil's role may be larger than he would like, and when the Plenimarans manage to capture all the elements for the Helm, it is up to him and his friends to destroy the evil once and for all.<br />There is far too much happening in this book to really sum it up in a short review. The tone darkens considerably in the second novel of this series, but the story and characters continue to deliver. Flewelling continues to develop her characters, who refuse to act like stereotypes and constantly surprise us with their realism and depth. There is plenty of action and adventure, lots of magic - both the good kind and the very, very dark kind, and a very satisfying romance. The climax is powerful and shocking.<br />STALKING DARKNESS is a fantastic follow-up to LUCK IN THE SHADOWS. I couldn't put it down until I reached the last page and the story and images haunted me for weeks after I finished it. It continues to strengthen the series and Flewelling's place in fantasy history.	2003-07-30
US	44608252	R22YD432GH8SKD	0553577239	76171339	The Bone Doll's Twin (Tamir Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Dark But Enthralling	Fans of Flewelling's incomparable Nightrunner series will be a little shocked when they pick up THE BONE DOLL'S TWIN. It's impressive how different in tone this new series is when compared to her other books. The Tamir Trilogy promises to be much darker, even a little disturbing, but just as brilliant.<br />THE BONE DOLL'S TWIN is set in the same world as the Nightrunner series, but far earlier in Skala's history. The small kingdom has enjoyed centuries of peace and safety thanks to divine protection which is maintained by a line of warrior queens. When an ambitious young prince decides to steal his sister's throne, he makes sure all contenders for the crown are eliminated. That means all females in the royal family are murdered. When a young woman married to the King's nephew gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl, the children's father takes desperate steps to ensure a return of the divine protection. He brings in an earth-witch to cast dark magic on his daughter, an act that necessitates the death of his son. The girl is magically made to appear male and is raised believing she is a boy.<br />The girl/boy Tobin must survive much before she can become Queen however. Her mother has gone mad, her twin brother still exists as an angry, bitter ghost, and if anyone should discover that he is really a girl, she would be quickly eliminated.<br />The book is amazingly original; I've never read anything remotely like it. Lynn Flewelling has proved herself a master at world building and character development and she doesn't let us down in either case with her latest series. Once again, all her characters, both good and bad, are richly developed and complex. The story, while dark and sinister, is enthralling and I can't wait to read the rest of the trilogy.	2003-07-30
US	44608252	R2LI5M1JRLYLQU	0061059803	70195658	Teranesia	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Disappointing Ending	Teranesia is the name given to a small, uninhabited island in Indonesia by young Prabir Suresh. His parents are there studying the unprecedented genetic mutations of a breed of butterflies found only on the island. It seems like paradise for Prabir and his two-year old sister Madhusree -- until war breaks out and shatters their world and takes the lives of their parents. Prabir manages to escape with Madhusree and they eventually end up living with their mother's sister in Canada.<br />Jump ahead twenty years. Prabir believes he's saved his sister from Teranesia, but the phenomenon that began with the butterflies has now spread to higher life forms. Madhusree is now a grad student in biology attempting to carry on her parent's work. Much to Prabir's dismay, she manages to get in with an expedition heading back to Indonesia to study the mutations. Prabir knows it will eventually lead back to Teranesia so he follows her blindly. Much has changed in the twenty years since they fled, and not for the better. What is causing the mutations and are they beneficial or a deadly danger?<br />Most of the book takes place in a chillingly realistic near future. Egan's characters are very well drawn with tangled emotions that run deep. I especially appreciated how the fact that Prabir is gay plays such a small role in the story. It wasn't made to be a huge issue; it was just a part of who he is. It was a little disappointing that Egan didn't foresee a more positive world for his gay character. It seems 40 years won't make much difference in attitudes toward GLBT people.<br />I wish the rest of the book had been as well thought out as the characters. I highly enjoyed the first three-quarters of the book, but he lost me at the end. The deeper he tried to go into the technobabble of genetics and mutations the more and more he lost me. There are long, boring speeches by characters sharing their theories about the mutations, which was largely unnecessary and just served to break up the flow of the story. The ending felt rushed and really failed to resolve any of the major story lines. If Egan had maintained the same level of excellence throughout, it would have easily received five stars from me, but I felt so disappointed by the end that it ruined the whole book.e flow of the story. The ending felt rushed and really failed to resolve any of the major story lines. If Egan had maintained the same level of excellence throughout, it would have easily received five stars from me, but I felt so disappointed by the end that it ruined the whole book.	2003-06-24
US	44608252	R3GANFYJ3ER6AX	1575668874	553768533	Faked To Death: A Simon Kirby-Jones Mystery (James, Dean, Simon Kirby-Jones Mystery.)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Pleasant but Predictable	Jumping directly into the second book in a series without having read the first can sometimes be a handicap. In FAKED TO DEATH, the second book in the Simon Kirby-Jones mystery series, the author Dean James quickly and efficiently deals with the salient plot points in the first three paragraphs.<br />\\"Being dead has its advantages.<br />\\"I get much more writing done now that I'm a vampire. When one has not one but two yearly best-sellers to produce, it's just as well that three hours' rest per night is sufficient.<br />\\"The world of popular fiction knows me as Daphne Deepwood (historical romance) and Dorinda Darlington (hard-boiled female private-eye novels). Little do my devoted readers suspect that Daphne-Dorinda is really Simon Kirby-Jones, respected historian, author of acclaimed biographies of Eleanor of Aquitaine and Richard the Lionheart. Nor do they suspect I'm a vampire. And gay.\\"<br />James has written a throwback to the old English cozy mystery perfected by Agatha Christie, except he adds an original twist. Instead of Miss Marple, we get Simon Kirby-Jones, a gay vampire from the American South who now lives in a small town in England. It's an idea that could have made for an interestingly unique touch. Unfortunately, James didn't deviate much from the formula.<br />When Simon is invited to a Writers Conference as himself, he's very surprised to find that his alter ego Dorinda Darlington is scheduled to appear as well. The phony Dorinda quickly insults everyone at the conference - held of course, at a secluded English manor - so it's no surprise when she ends up dead. Predictably, the police ask everyone to stay at the manor overnight and, not surprisingly, someone else ends up dead.<br />Simon, who just like amateur sleuths the world over (alive or dead), can't seem to keep his nose out of police business, investigates and figures things out before the police do. I had the mystery figured out long before the big denouement, although for a while I thought James was not only going to follow formula to a tee, but was actually going to steal one of Christie's most famous plot-twists. Thankfully, he didn't go quite that far.<br />Despite the predictability of the book, I did enjoy James' writing style. Simon Kirby-Jones is a likeable protagonist, even if he does tend to be a bit insufferable at times. Still, I expected more from the premise than was actually delivered. A good beach read if all you want to do is escape with a bit of fluff.James was not only going to follow formula to a tee, but was actually going to steal one of Christie's most famous plot-twists. Thankfully, he didn't go quite that far. <br />Despite the predictability of the book, I did enjoy James' writing style. Simon Kirby-Jones is a likeable protagonist, even if he does tend to be a bit insufferable at times. Still, I expected more from the premise than was actually delivered. A good beach read if all you want to do is escape with a bit of fluff.	2003-06-24
US	44608252	R30AUFEW3R084X	0670031909	409938290	Lost in a Good Book: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Series Keeps Getting Better	LOST IN A GOOD BOOK is Jasper Fford's second book in the Thursday Next series. I found it to be every bit as good as the first, THE EYRE AFFAIR, and I'm already looking forward to the spring of 2004 when the next book, THE WELL OF LOST PLOTS, becomes available.<br />In THE EYRE AFFAIR, we were introduced to Spec-Ops Agent Thursday Next, a tough female investigator in Literary Division. The year is 1985, but the world in which Thursday lives is not the world you and I know. It's an alternate universe in which England, still the dominant world power, is almost a police state, the Crimean War has lasted 150 years, and the world's biggest superstars are authors. You can buy Clone-Your-Own-Dodo kits over the counter and the main means of mass transportation is via airship.<br />In this adventure, Thursday's husband has been eradicated by the corrupt Goliath Corporation. Eradication involves going back in time and making sure that person never exists. In order to blackmail Thursday into doing their dirty work, the Goliath agent Mr. Schitt-Hawse (pronounced just the way you think it is) has left Thursday's memories of her husband intact, along with the baby she happens to be carrying. Goliath's demand? That Thursday jump into Poe's poem THE RAVEN and release another Goliath agent whom she had imprisoned there. The only problem is, the Prose Portal which allowed her to jump into JANE EYRE in THE EYRE AFFAIR has been destroyed.<br />The answer is provided when Thursday is recruited for the top-secret Jurisfiction, an elite team of mostly fictional characters who protect and maintain the integrity of all the world's books. She is apprenticed to Miss Havisham of Dicken's GREAT EXPECTATIONS fame, complete in tattered wedding dress, and soon Thursday is learning how to jump into books without a Prose Portal. Meanwhile, a mysterious enemy is trying to kill Thursday by coincidence, the world is scheduled to end in just a few days, and Thursday isn't sure Goliath will reactualize her husband even if she does what they want.<br />Author Fford expands on the world and characters introduced in THE EYRE AFFAIR quite successfully. As in the first novel, there are more than a few times when you will have to suspend belief or overlook a particularly large plot hole, but it's worth it for the pure enjoyment of the read. There are even more in-jokes and a whole barrel-load of laugh out loud moments. And to top it all off, there's quite a bit of social commentary hidden in there as well. It's one of those books you feel compelled to read sections of aloud to anyone who happens to be nearby, just to share the wealth. Thursday continues to evolve into an ever more interesting character and I felt sad when the book ended. I'm already waiting impatiently for her next adventure.her husband even if she does what they want. <br />Author Fford expands on the world and characters introduced in THE EYRE AFFAIR quite successfully. As in the first novel, there are more than a few times when you will have to suspend belief or overlook a particularly large plot hole, but it's worth it for the pure enjoyment of the read. There are even more in-jokes and a whole barrel-load of laugh out loud moments. And to top it all off, there's quite a bit of social commentary hidden in there as well. It's one of those books you feel compelled to read sections of aloud to anyone who happens to be nearby, just to share the wealth. Thursday continues to evolve into an ever more interesting character and I felt sad when the book ended. I'm already waiting impatiently for her next adventure.	2003-06-15
US	44608252	ROC8H4S5ZKNWX	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	5	53	55	N	N	A Fun-filled Adventure	With the first page of this book, Fford caught my attention and held it fast until the last. I hated to see it end, but I was very happy to discover that it was only first in a series featuring Spec-Ops agent Thursday Next. Fford has created a blend of mystery, science fiction, and fantasy that is similar to Douglas Adams' Dirk Gently series. Fford's books even have the same irreverently sublime silliness, but with a decidedly literary bent.<br />The books are set in an alternate universe, one where England is the world greatest super power, but is held under the control of a shadowy mega-company called Goliath. The year is 1985, but it's unlike any 1985 you or I might remember. Technology is both far advanced and far behind. The Crimean War still drags on and the world's biggest superstars are authors. A special crime enforcement unit has been formed to deal with crimes that fall outside the usual boundaries of police jurisdiction. Thursday Next works for Spec-Ops 27, the Literary Division.<br />When the world's third most wanted criminal, Acheron Hades, finds a way to jump into the original manuscript of Dicken's MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT and assassinates Mr. Quaverley (a character you will only remember if you read the book before 1985), Thursday is assigned the case. It turns out that the assassination of Mr. Quaverley was only an example of what he was capable of, and when he jumps into JANE EYRE and kidnaps the title character, it's up to Thursday to save the beloved heroine...and the book.<br />I'll warn you now that you'll have to suspend belief while reading this book. It should be read as a fantasy first and foremost. It deals with time travel (Thursday's father is a Spec-Ops agent as well, but in the Chronoguard), cloned dodo's (Thursday's marshmallow loving pet Pickwick, version 1.2), and Shakespeare's Richard the Third is performed with audience participation ala Rocky Horror. If you can get past some of the more absurd qualities of the book, you're in for a true literary treat. Fford writes assuming his readers will get his numerous high lit in-jokes, and while I'm sure I missed a few, he provided me with many laugh out loud moments. While his world is bizarre and occasionally hard to swallow, it's also amazingly imaginative and fun, Fun, FUN! Thursday is a strong, complicated, and entirely likeable protagonist and I'm sure we have a lot to look forward to from her.true literary treat. Fford writes assuming his readers will get his numerous high lit in-jokes, and while I'm sure I missed a few, he provided me with many laugh out loud moments. While his world is bizarre and occasionally hard to swallow, it's also amazingly imaginative and fun, Fun, FUN! Thursday is a strong, complicated, and entirely likeable protagonist and I'm sure we have a lot to look forward to from her.	2003-06-15
US	44608252	R1BXK88239KOWX	1555834841	281849595	The Essential Guide to Lesbian and Gay Weddings	Books	5	8	8	N	N	What a godsend!	My partner and I are planning a commitment ceremony -- (Why didn't somebody warn me about how much work this would be?!)-- and being two guys, albeit gay ones, we really didn't have any idea about what we were doing. We looked at several straight wedding guides and planners, but they weren't very helpful for planning an alternative wedding. We could have made it up from whole cloth, but we needed some idea of the basic do's and don'ts of a wedding. Finally, we found and purchased THE ESSENTIAL GUIDE TO LESBIAN AND GAY WEDDINGS. What a godsend! It takes you through the whole process from engagement to honeymoon and beyond, step by step with in depth descriptions, explanations, and alternatives to tradition. The authors present what might have been rather dry material in an engaging, entertaining manner that keeps it interesting and fun. I found myself reading sections that didn't really apply to us just for the heck of it. They liberally sprinkle personal anecdotes and first-hand experiences from gay and lesbian couples who have tied the knot throughout the book. An invaluable resource for anyone planning or even dreaming about a same-sex ceremony.	2003-06-12
US	44608252	R1MGTALUCHJTER	0758202121	745205687	Bourbon Street Blues	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Doesn't Quite Live Up To Its Promise	Bourbon Street Blues is the second book by Greg Herren and the first of what appears to be a series featuring amateur sleuth Scotty Bradley. Scott, who was given the name Milton by his hippy parents (say his first and last name and you'll understand why he chose to go by Scott), is a personal trainer and sometimes go-go boy. He lives in New Orleans where anything can happen and usually does. He rents an apartment from his lesbian aunts and has a great relationship with his Proud-to-have-a-gay-son parents.<br />It's Decadence (sometimes referred to as the gay Mardi Gras) in the Big Easy, and Scotty is having a great time. That is, until a former client who vanished a year ago reappears and asks Scott if he can hide at his apartment. \\"They're after me,\\" he tells Scott at the club where Scott is dancing. Scott thinks his old friend is on drugs and decides to ignore him, but when he gets home, he finds a mysterious computer disk has been slipped into his boot along with his tips for the night. Technophobe Scott doesn't have a computer, so he heads out in the wee hours of the morning to use his friend's computer. When his friend turns out to be unavailable, he returns home to find an acquaintance dead on his doorstep.<br />Scott suddenly finds himself in the middle of a plot to destroy New Orleans, a modern day Sodom and Gomorrah according to an extreme right wing gubernatorial candidate. It's up to Scott, his friends, and Frank Sobieski, the sexy FBI agent, to prevent the murder of thousands of people.<br />Author Greg Herren has created likeable characters that show a lot of promise. Unfortunately, the plot doesn't really live up to that promise. I really liked Scotty and his family and friends, and I wanted so badly to like the book as well, but the plot was just so outlandishly unrealistic that it left me feeling a little cheated. I ended up reading it just as escapist fare, since there was no way you could possibly take it as a serious mystery.<br />The main character is one of those types that you just can't help but like. He comes across as a genuinely good person, but also as very human, as do his friends and family. I especially liked the touches of supernatural that Herren includes in the book; Scott, it turns out, is somewhat psychic. The characters alone kept me reading to the end.<br />Herren concludes the book with the implication that the series will continue. I'd probably read the next book in the series, just because I liked his characters so much. However, if the plot turns out to be as preposterous as this one, it will probably be the last one I read.cter is one of those types that you just can't help but like. He comes across as a genuinely good person, but also as very human, as do his friends and family. I especially liked the touches of supernatural that Herren includes in the book; Scott, it turns out, is somewhat psychic. The characters alone kept me reading to the end. <br />Herren concludes the book with the implication that the series will continue. I'd probably read the next book in the series, just because I liked his characters so much. However, if the plot turns out to be as preposterous as this one, it will probably be the last one I read.	2003-06-05
US	44608252	R32J0GX6MCBK1V	0553286390	591086816	Dragon Wing (The Death Gate Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Interesting World	Weis and Hickman have created a very unique and intriguing world; one in which all the land masses are floating on different planes, and water is scarce on all but the lowest levels.  The story is very good, but at times a little confusing and hard to grasp because of the complexity of the world.  There are many questions left unanswered which is a little frustrating.  The characters are well developed but its very hard to relate to them or really care what is happening to them, which makes it difficult to get into the story at times.	2003-05-06
US	44608252	R1H87AK10BYZ4E	055357325X	740351727	The Seventh Gate: A Death Gate Novel, Volume 7	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Good but not great	Haplo and Alfred are battling against forces on all four worlds and the dragon snakes are trying to destroy the Patryns and Sartan by starting a war in the Labyrinth, and then tricking them into fighting each other instead of the real enemy.  Apparently there are only 4 intelligent people in the world, everyone else is hell bent on winning a war that can have no winner, and will not listen to anyone who tries to tell them the truth.  Alfred and Haplo end up in the seventh gate along with Xar.  Alfred tries to shut Deaths Gate so all the dragon snakes, Patryns, and Sartan are trapped in the same place, hoping that in time they will stop fighting.  As usual, nothing goes as planned but in the end, there is tentative peace between everyone, which feels a little too neat.<br />  Overall, the series is good, but it could have been told in five books instead of seven.  The biggest weakness is that you never feel close to the characters, as you do in the best fantasy books, like those by Mercedes Lackey and Lynn Flewelling.  You like the characters you're supposed to like, and you hate the characters you're supposed to hate, but you're not too tied up into what will happen to them.  If you can ignore the flaws of the story, then it is an enjoyable read.	2003-05-06
US	44608252	R1W5RS62B1K2EO	038073267X	594977768	Sacred and Profane (Peter Decker & Rina Lazarus Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Mystery	Peters and Rina's relationship continues to evolve as Peter is transferred back to homicide after he finds the bodies of two girls while camping with Rina's children.  Very dark and disturbing, the book deals with underground fantasy/fetish porn in which money can get you anything you want, including murder. The story is very well written and suspenseful until the very end, and the relationship between Peter and Rina is successfully woven into the mystery without being distracting.	2003-05-06
US	44608252	R3KJF5NLVZLS9E	0756401224	223452361	Joust: Joust #1 (Dragon Jousters)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, but Not Lackey's Best	Vetch is a serf serving his enemy, when one day he is taken into the custody of a Jouster, a dragon rider who defends Vetch's enemies and is battling his home country.  He is forced to serve them, and even though he is treated very well, for a serf, he cannot stop longing for his freedom.  Ari, his Jouster, and dragon are one of a kind.  Ari raised the dragon from hatching so he is completely tame.  Taking Ari's example, Vetch manages to obtain a dragon egg, hide it from everyone, and raise the baby from hatching.  As his dragon is approaching its first flight, He escapes one day, and is pursued by 3 Jousters.  Ari is the only one who catches him, and he ends up helping Vetch escape and begin the journey back to his home country.<br />  Lackey is one of my favorite authors, but she sometimes seems to have trouble coming up with new ideas.  This same sort of story has been told hundreds of times before.  The whole book is black and white, all the situations are either good or bad, and all the characters are either perfect and good, or flawed with no redeeming qualities.  There is also very little characterization in this book.  The only character you really know at the end is Vetch.  Overall, this is a good light fantasy book that all Lackey fans should read, and probably my favorite outside of the Valdemar series.	2003-05-04
US	44608252	R2YKNEC9P9C0XD	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Intriguing Book	In Ender's Shadow, Orson Scott Card manages to retell the same story he told in<br />Ender's Game, without much repetition or overlap. I've never read anything quite like this before and found it to be a very interesting concept, that must have taken an incredible amount of planning to be pulled off.<br />  The book starts on the streets of Rotterdam, where poverty is rampant. Bean is homeless, and young, but brilliant. By manipulating those around him, Bean is able to change the way every homeless child lives in the city, and he is found by a women who tests children for battle school. He passes the tests and is sent off to battle school where his side of the story of the battle against the buggers is told.<br /> In this book, we see beyond Ender, and into everyone else who helped him to destroy the buggers. Card also manages to give us more insight into Ender, although he is not focus of the book at all. This book is an amazing accomplishment, but at times gets tedious with the tremendous amount of detail. The biggest failing of the story is the characterization of Bean. He is an untouchable character who us little with which to empathize because of his incredible genius and his inability to identify with anyone else.	2003-05-04
US	44608252	R3UW437SNJX5EU	0446612219	958613694	Lion's Blood: A Novel of Slavery and Freedom in an Alternate America	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Read	Lions Blood is one of the most original fantasy books that I have ever read. Barnes masterfully creates an alternative history of the New World, in which blacks are the masters and whites are the slaves.  The story is wonderful in that it makes the reader really think about what the world would be like today if this was true and it draws many interesting parallels with today's society. The characters are incredibly well drawn and the story is told in great detail.  The tremendous detail is wonderful most of the time.  It allows the reader to delve as deeply into the story as you like without running out of detail and nuance.  However, the detail does get a little tedious at times.  This is a great intense book for those who like to really get involved with what they are reading.	2003-05-03
US	44608252	RWDXRDPKWZEZ0	1555973671	86140916	Avoidance: A Novel	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Beautiful Writing, Disturbing Tale	I eagerly picked up a copy of Avoidance at the recommendation of a friend. After reading the book flap, I knew I wasn't in for a light-hearted romp, but I wasn't prepared for the heaviness of Michael Lowenthal's second novel.<br />Jeremy is a 28-year-old man working on his post-graduate thesis, a study of the Amish custom of shunning. His true passion, however, is Ironwood Summer Camp, where he spent his childhood summer and where he found his true sense of family after the death of his father. Jeremy now works at the camp as assistant director and he spends the cold months of winter longing for summer so he can return to Ironwood. Lowenthal uses Jeremy's study of shunning powerfully, illustrating and paralleling the social structure of the camp.<br />When Jeremy finds himself attracted to a fourteen-year-old lost soul named Max, he is disturbed and frightened. When Max confides in him that he has been molested by the camp director, it stirs up many issues and buried memories that Jeremy isn't sure he's ready to deal with.<br />All of the denizens of Lowenthal's world feel real, and even the secondary characters are fully realized. His writing is evocative and beautiful. There's no doubt that he is a great talent in the world of gay literature. I found I couldn't put the book down...even when I wanted to - which was the problem. The story is so dark and depressing that I really didn't want to finish it, but I just couldn't stop reading. The ending was very disappointing for me. Jeremy seems to be hell-bent on being a martyr and it left me feeling very unsettled and unsatisfied. I was haunted and depressed for days after reading this book.	2003-04-29
US	44608252	RE1RI62AESB1I	0060394447	19645029	Tommy's Tale	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A Promising First Novel	Tommy's Tale is described on its jacket cover as \\"rollicking\\". And it is. Written by Alan Cumming, this book is sharp, smart, laugh-out-loud funny, and surprisingly poignant. Tommy, the narrator of the story, is a 29-year-old adolescent. He has made a choice not to grow up and he revels in his decadent lifestyle. Living in London with his friends and roommates Sadie and Bobbie, he lives a self-indulgent life of drugs, sex, and parties.<br />As he approaches his thirtieth birthday however, Tommy suddenly finds himself faced with the very emotions and feelings he's been trying so hard to avoid. It seems like everyone is telling him to grow up, including his sort-of boyfriend Charlie, who is ready for more of a commitment. Even Charlie's charming eight-year-old son wants Tommy to be more responsible and be his \\"second daddy\\".  Most demanding, though, is Tommy's own desire to have a true family of his own.<br />Tommy's bad decisions continue to pile up, and he resorts to more and more drug use in an effort to stem the rising tide of depression. Will he be able to overcome his excesses and be the man his friends and family need him to be?<br />This is Alan Cumming's first novel, but I'm hoping it won't be his last. Cumming is better known for his Tony Award-winning turn as the emcee in Cabaret. He has also starred in quite a few recent movies, including his critically acclaimed cowritten, coproduced, codirected and costarred The Anniversary Party. Cumming writes in a very personal style. It feels as if you are having a conversation with an old friend in your favorite bar. He has a knack for capturing the small things in life that make his story feel all the more real. This isn't for the moralistic or squeamish. He tends to glamorize drug use, although he doesn't pull any punches when it comes to their effects, and the sex is graphic and abundant. My biggest reservation about this book was the predictable and somewhat flat ending. It leaves you with warm fuzzies and wraps everything up neatly (perhaps too neatly), but it doesn't quite live up to the rest of the story. You can't help but get the feeling that perhaps Cumming is already thinking about the screenplay for his first novel and wrote the perfect, feel-good, Hollywood ending. Still, Tommy's Tale is one of my favorite books I've read in a while.aps everything up neatly (perhaps too neatly), but it doesn't quite live up to the rest of the story. You can't help but get the feeling that perhaps Cumming is already thinking about the screenplay for his first novel and wrote the perfect, feel-good, Hollywood ending. Still, Tommy's Tale is one of my favorite books I've read in a while.	2003-04-09
US	44608252	R29D3A3S8RCTDT	0738514446	390205889	Cambridge   (MD)  (Images  of  America)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Beautiful Piece of History	I was so impressed by this book by Gloria Johnson-Mansfield and Ann Foley. The book tells the history of Cambridge, Maryland through pictures. Cambridge is a historic village on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. The amount of work and love that must have gone into this book is obvious. They say a picture can say a thousand words, and in this book they do, but the well researched captions and explanations that accompany the vintage photographs are a treasure as well. I'm looking forward to the companion book, Dorchester, that I understand is forthcoming.	2002-09-09
US	44608252	REYY99FS05VDI	0689841000	161188863	Rainbow Boys	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Great Book for Struggling Teens	Rainbow Boys is a great book for teens struggling with their sexuality, as well as parents and friends of those same teens. It addresses many of the issues ...homosexual teens face in a realistic and educational way, while still being a great read. The characters are well-drawn and you come to care about their lives. While at times it may have felt like the author was trying to include too many issues, that's not necessarily a bad thing. I was especially impressed by the list of resources at the end. I admire the fact that the author isn't just writing for entertainment alone, but also recognizes the responsibility of ...homosexual authors today to educate, inform and assist. I highly recommend this book.	2002-01-29
US	44608252	R3RMAY6ZYFVHJ4	1930928602	126850623	Staying in the Game	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Fantastic Mystery with a Touching Love Story	I just finished Nann Dunne's book, Staying in the Game, and I have to say that it was a fantastic thriller. I couldn't put it down! The gripping, suspenceful mystery kept me guessing until the unveiling of the killer. There were more than enough twists and turns along the way to keep things interesting. Ms. Dunne's style reminded me very much of Barbara Michaels. As an added bonus, Nann Dunne weaves a touching love story in the midst of all the suspence. Much of the book revolves around the softball diamond and her experience with sports, and softball in particular, shows itself in her confident handling of the game scenes. I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good, well-crafted mystery.	2001-12-13
US	44608252	R1OCYM867AKMMF	0758200382	32407238	Someone Killed His Boyfriend: A Summer of Sex, Sun and Murder in Provincetown	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A Giddy Good Time	While this may not be the most intellectual novel of the year, it is just plain fun and there's a lot to be said for that. The characters are charming and funny and while they may be broad stereotypes, it's all in good fun. And that's not even mentioning a great mystery. I recommend this book to anyone looking for a little escapism and a barrel load of chuckles.	2001-12-06
US	44608252	R2I7H1VRSB1O19	1560231858	207558900	Metes and Bounds: A Novel (Southern Tier)	Books	5	16	22	N	N	A Book Well Worth Your Time	This book was a pleasure to discover. It feels real, as if you know Matt, his experiences were especially familiar to me. Although I'm not a surfer, I grow up around a beach resort where surfing was commonplace and surfers were everywhere. Jay Quinn captures this world and the small town world of the south very realistically. The coming-of-age story unfolds beautifully.	2001-11-28
US	44608252	RWELXKLJFWGR5	059515686X	876054710	Murder at Willow Slough	Books	5	4	5	N	N	We Need More Books Like This	We need more books like this on the market. Well-written, fast paced page turners with strong gay characters. Mysteries have always been one of my favorite genres, which is why I started writing them I suppose, and it's great to see gay men and women breaking onto the scene. That the author can blend realistic romance into it is a huge bonus. I hope to see a lot more from Josh Thomas.	2001-11-28
US	44608252	R2FEIE2Y94WXG0	0810957124	348983923	Dear Friends: American Photographs of Men Together, 1840-1918	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Beautiful Book	Dear Friends is a truly beautiful book; full of wonderful, sweet photos that speek volumes in and of themselves. The text is great, but the pictures are the true treasure. It's said that a picture is worth a thousand words, this book proves the old adage right.	2001-11-27
