US	44620071	R53MWO5TO6LEL	0425146898	27928264	Exhaustive Enquiries	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Murder in the Cotswolds!	In the 4th book in the Melissa Craig mystery series, the reader finds Mel at work again on her latest mystery novel.  Living in the Cotswolds of England was a decision that she treasures, and she has settled down to life in her peaceful bungalow.  Having best friend, Iris Ash, nearby, Melissa feels that her life is nearly perfect.  When millionaire, Richard \\"Mitch\\" Mitchell asks her to write a spooky play for his birthday celebration, Mel tries her hand at something a bit out of the ordinary.  Attending one of the rehearsals for her \\"pantocrime\\", Melissa is there when the dead body of one of the actors is found.  Never one to believe that suicide is the reason for death, Melissa immediately becomes suspicious.  And when Mitch approaches her about some strange business dealings at his hotel, she reluctantly agrees to help him find the culprit.  Are the spooks rumored to be in residence at the hotel causing the disturbances or could it be the illicit activities of a member of the staff?  Was the actor pushed or did he simply fall down the cellar steps accidentally?  Mel finds herself immersed too deeply to back away, and helps crack a case with international ties.<br />I enjoyed the latest Mel Craig mystery much more than I had the previous case, Over the Edge, set in France.  I wished that the character, Iris Ash, had played a larger role in this case, however as she lends a levelheaded tone to each of Melissa's cases.  One of the developments that I enjoyed was a new romantic interest for Mel (although the vocation of which is largely overused in this genre) and the plot was both fresh and interesting.  I highly recommend this series and this book even if you have not read any of the previous novels in the series.<br />The first book in the series is \\"A Little Gentle Sleuthing\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-31
US	44620071	R34ZM8D020K3NM	0380819643	768360598	Splendor in the Glass: A Den of Antiquity Mystery	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not as Splendid as others...	In the 9th book in the Abigail Timberlake mystery series by Tamar Myers, we find Abigail has moved to Charleston to be closer to her shrimp boating husband, Greg.  She sets up another antique store, and with help from CJ, she begins to settle in nicely.  However, she wants desperately to fit into Charleston society, and she gets invited to tea by one of society's grand dame's, Mrs. Amelia Shadbark.  Mrs. Shadbark asks Abigail to broker the sale of her priceless Lalique glass collection, but after she is found dead Abigail realizes that the collection was not everything that it seemed.  When Abigail finds herself as the prime suspect (having been the last one to see the victim) she sets out to prove that she may be short on height, but not on innocence.<br />Tamar Myers writes both the Abigail Timberlake mystery series and the Pennsylvania Dutch mystery series with recipes.  She tends toward witty humor and uses quite a few puns in her writing, many of which she repeats in each book.  I have enjoyed many of the previous books, but am a bit tired of some of the \\"stale\\" puns that she overuses in each book (the jokes about CJ are reused too much for example).  However, I enjoy cozy mysteries (mysteries with little \\"on-stage\\" violence, no overt savy, and little gore) and I enjoy those with a bit of humor.  These are excellent examples of the genre and probably would be a bit too silly or trite for those that enjoy police procedurals or intense mysteries (i.e. Patricia Cornwell).  If you like cozy mysteries and want a bit of a change, I would recommend giving Tamar Myers a try.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Larceny and Old Lace\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-28
US	44620071	R3JU8EXN32PZYE	1575663740	154308204	A Pedigree To Die For	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Dying to Find a Stud!	Being a fan of the Dog Lover's Mystery series by Susan Conant, I decided to try the first book in the Melanie Travis mystery series by Laurien Berenson.  While the two series are quite a bit different in style (Conant's books are more cerebral and the mysteries more complex), both contain interesting characters and lots of information about dogs.<br />In this book, we meet Melanie, a single mother strapped for cash who agrees to help her Aunt Peg find a missing champion poodle stud, Beau.  Her uncle was found dead of an apparent heart attack in the kennel area, and when he was found, Beau was gone.  Being suspicious, Melanie's aunt is convinced that someone took the dog to use as a stud dog, and Melanie goes undercover at several dog shows to get information on the dog's whereabouts.  Meeting an attractive exhibitor with a strong motive for stealing the dog, Melanie must stay focused on her task and when another death occurs, she steps up the investigation to find both a killer and the missing dog.<br />I enjoyed this first book for the plot (there were several twists and turns I never saw coming) and for the background information.  Having only read this first book, I was expecting that Melanie would somehow actually get involved with showing dogs, and when that did not happen I was a bit disappointed.  I was also disappointed that her wealthy Aunt Peg did not offer to pay her for the time spent looking for her missing dog since it is hardly a secret that Melanie is a struggling single mother.  Other than these minor complaints, I enjoyed this book and look forward to more doggie adventures with Melanie.  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-26
US	44620071	R2JMSHE7L1NSL9	0449215237	643931546	The Elusive Mrs. Pollifax	Books	5	12	12	N	N	No One Else Could have Passports Sewn Into her Hat!	The 3rd book written by Dorothy Gilman is another book filled with intrigue and heroism.  Mrs. Pollifax, a widow who enjoys teas and garden clubs, sets out on her third courier job for the CIA, a mission which starts in Bulgaria.  Mrs. Pollifax is a CIA agent assigned to smuggle forged passports into the country, for the use of some agents that have found themselves in need of escape.  However, as in her previous two cases, no simple courier job ends up that way, and she also works to assist a group of college kids that find themselves in trouble.<br />I was enthralled with the third assignment of Mrs. Pollifax, and enjoyed every moment spent with her on this adventure.  Mrs. Pollifax is not a person that you would initially feel would make a good CIA agent.  She is elderly, loves to wear outlandish hats, and finds a way to talk and get to know everyone around her.  But it is just these qualities that make her so invisible in the world of spies, and even the most cynical of agents falls under her spell.  I loved the fact that Mrs. Pollifax is learning karate (since she hates guns I worried about how she could plausibly protect herself) and that she was just as lovable yet determined as she was in the previous books.  If you have not tried this series, pick up a copy of this book and the previous books, and join the millions of others who are charmed by this beloved character!<br />The first book in the series is \\"The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Mystery Lover	2003-07-26
US	44620071	R1RB4FVXH39RR5	0449208281	678031855	The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Charming Debut of Mrs. Pollifax	The first book in the beloved Mrs. Pollifax series gives the background as to how this elderly, yet irrepressible grandmother joins the CIA.  Bored and disillusioned with her life, she decides to volunteer to be a spy with the CIA.  She dresses herself up (hat and all), shows up on the doorstep of the CIA building, and waits to meet with the director.  A mix-up occurs, and she finds herself on a whirlwind adventure that sends her around the globe and tests her patience, strength, and determination.  Only Mrs. Pollifax could find her way out of prison in Albania, and helping other prisoners, she proves to herself and the CIA that she is an invaluable resource.<br />Having read the entire Mrs. Pollifax series, I was hooked by this charming debut.  Mrs. Pollifax was vulnerable in the beginning (she contemplates suicide when she feels that she is not needed) but finds inner strength to overcome all of the ordeals she faces while on her mission for the CIA.  The book was also an introduction to another wonderful character, Farrell, who plays a large part in this and future books in the series.  If you are looking for something a bit unexpected and like adventure, try this series.  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Mystery Lover	2003-07-26
US	44620071	RN997LBP3YAGH	0553584707	116175105	Catering to Nobody (Goldy, Book 1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Killer Recipes!	The first book in the Goldy Bear catering mystery series, introduces us to Goldy Bear, owner of Goldilock's Catering Service (where everything is just right!).  Goldy is a divorced mother of one son who, after leaving her abusive doctor husband, turns to cooking to make a living for herself and her son, Arch.  While catering a wake, her ex father-in-law drops dead and she finds herself as the primary suspect.  Could she have poisoned his coffee or is her ex setting her up for a murder rap?  While trying to keep her business afloat and herself sane, Goldy sets out to prove herself innocent and find a killer before she is the next one killed.<br />I highly enjoyed this debut for Diane Mott Davidson.  The character of Goldy is a bit whiny at times, but I like the fact that she is plucky and determined to make a better life for herself and Arch.  When she gets stressed she cooks, and many of her recipes are included in the book.  The food is yummy and the mystery interesting.  I would recommend reading this book, but do not read it on an empty stomach!  Enjoy!	2003-07-26
US	44620071	R1PC4O7H5CCNF1	0449209121	607944051	The Amazing Mrs. Pollifax	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Mrs. Pollifax Wears Many Hats!	In the follow-up to the charming debut novel, The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax, Dorothy Gilman writes another book filled with intrigue and heroism.  Mrs. Pollifax, a widow who enjoys teas and garden clubs, sets out on her second courier job for the CIA, a mission which starts in Istanbul.  Searching for a missing woman (an agent with international ties), Mrs. Pollifax poses as a tourist to track down the woman and smuggle her safely out of the country.  Protected by only an agent, who has no idea what her real mission is to be, Mrs. Pollifax must use her newly acquired knowledge of karate and her unflappable nature to charm her way out of some sticky situations.  Hair-raising as always, Mrs. Pollifax's second adventure will leave you wanting more!<br />I was thrilled to read the second adventure of Mrs. Pollifax, and enjoyed every moment spent with her on the case.  Mrs. Pollifax is not a person that you would initially feel would make a good CIA agent.  She is elderly, loves to wear outlandish hats, and finds a way to talk and get to know everyone around her.  But it is just these qualities that make her so invisible in the world of spies, and even the most cynical of agents falls under her spell.  I loved the fact that Mrs. Pollifax learned karate (since she hates guns I worried about how she could plausibly protect herself) and that she was just as lovable yet determined as she was in the previous book.  If you have not tried this series, pick up a copy of this book and the previous book, The Unexpected Mrs. Pollifax, and join the millions of others who are charmed by this beloved character!  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Mystery Lover	2003-07-26
US	44620071	R2CR1ENOYRAJKI	0373263848	511972667	A Fool and His Honey (Aurora Teagarden Mysteries, Book 6)	Books	3	28	32	N	N	Shocked and Dismayed!	Being a huge fan of the Aurora \\"Roe\\" Teagarden mystery series, I was anxious to read the latest book in the series.  However, I was extremely shocked by the outcome of this book and kept waiting to find out that Roe was having a bad dream or something similar.  This series has always been on the tougher side of the cozy mystery genre, but I was blown away by the darker edge to the plot in this book.  When a book makes your heart stop for a moment and your eyes well up with tears, you know that you really \\"care\\" about the characters.  Caring about what happens to the characters is one of the aspects that makes a good book, and if the reaction of readers is any indication, this must be one to look at.  Ms. Harris definitely took a chance with this plot, and I have to say that it was indeed a shock.  Like other readers I have had a hard time picking up subsequent books in the series, but am determined to find a reason as to why Ms. Harris chose the ending that she did.<br />Saying all of these things, I would highly recommend all of the previous books in this series.  Roe is a great character, and the relationship that she has with her husband was a big reason that I loved the previous books.  If you enjoy a bit of a darker cozy, this might just be the series for you.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Real Murders\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Mystery Lover	2003-07-26
US	44620071	R3PQ46B25CI9Y0	0425155803	523733592	Mrs. Jeffries Stands Corrected (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Inspector Witherspoon Tackles A Case Alone!	In the 9th book in the Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries Victorian Mystery series, we find Inspector Witherspoon trying a new tacit to solving his murder investigations.  When a publican (bar owner) is murdered on opening day of his new pub, there does not seem to be any shortage of suspects.  It seems that everyone hated the victim, including his wife, his relatives, and his employees.  And using his \\"inner voice\\" instead of the usual assistance of his staff at Upper Edmonton Gardens (led by housekeeper, Mrs. Jeffries), Inspector Witherspoon is putting himself at risk of losing his job.  Will his inner voice help him solve the case or will this be the last murder investigation for him and his staff?<br />I enjoyed the premise of the book in the fact that Inspector Witherspoon decided to handle a case entirely on his own.  Even though he is not aware that his staff helps him investigate his cases, I was worried that he would muddle his way through to solving this case.  Previous books have shown the Inspector as a bit less than capable of handling tough cases on his own, and it was nice to see that the Inspector was qualified to investigate without too much assistance.  I also liked the fact that his staff did not give up trying to help him in any way that they could, and I was pleased with the outcome of the case.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries (these are set in Victorian England), then I would suggest trying this series.  Since this case is much different than some of the others, I would suggest reading previous books before you read this one.<br />The first book in the series is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-23
US	44620071	RXP52X8S8VMY	0425184528	581099109	The Big Nap: A Mommy-Track Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sleep Deprivation is a Killer!	In the 2nd book in the Mommy Track Mystery series by Ayelet Waldman, Juliet Applebaum is the sleep deprived mother of four-month-old son, Isaac, and three-year-old daughter, Ruby.  To help get some much-needed sleep, she hires a baby-sitter to watch her children for a couple of hours.  When the baby-sitter, Fraydle, vanishes after only one day on the job, Juliet cannot imagine what has happened to her.  Juliet knows her kids are a bit hard to handle, but she cannot envision that it was her kids that ran Fraydle out of town.  When Fraydle's Hasidic Jewish family asks for help in finding the missing girl, Juliet simply cannot keep her nosy nature out of the picture.  Did Fraydle run away to be with an Israeli boy or was she married off to a strict Hasidic family?  Or did something more sinister happen?  Juliet tries to solve the case while working on less than 3 hours of sleep per night, and her sense of humor and fearlessness lead her to finding the truth about this case of the missing baby-sitter.<br />Like others have said, I enjoyed this book in the series better than I had the previous book.  Even though Juliet is a bit whiny (and I definitely blame her lack of sleep for this) in the book, she was still humorous and completely human.  She is a bit flip about many aspects of motherhood, but shows love and devotion to her family at the same time.  What set this book apart from other mysteries is that there was no dead body, and for most of the book, Juliet could not figure out why Fraydle was missing.  This added a bit of suspense in that I was never sure if she would be found dead or alive.  The ending was a surprise, and I am looking forward to reading other books in this series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Nursery Crimes\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-23
US	44620071	R246MBLPL4ZKUR	1556114125	894290413	Murder Has No Calories (Benbow/Wingate Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dieting Can Be Murder!	The 5th book in the Retirement Mysteries by Corinne Holt Sawyer finds the ladies from Camden-sur-Mer a bit out of their element.  Friends Angela Benbow and Caledonia Wingate are asked by friend and owner of The Time Out Inn to investigate the death of one of her workers.  To their chagrin, they find out the inn is an exercise and diet spa, and they must suffer through exercise classes to try and blend in with the group (of which one is the murderer!)  Even though these two are in their 80's, no one dares to tell them that they are too old to investigate murders and they dive in with relish.  When Caledonia is attacked, the two friends (along with Lt. Martinez and crew) must catch a murderer before she becomes another of this clever killer's victims!<br />I enjoyed the latest book in this series about the irrepressible Angela and Caledonia.  It was very amusing to imagine Angela sweating all day long while Caledonia relaxed, and I could just picture the meal scenes with all the ladies gobbling their food after a long day of exercise.  I like the spunk and determination of the characters in this series, and I found myself laughing aloud at their antics.  The mystery was decent, and although I guessed the identity of the killer early, I was surprised at the motive in this case.  This was definitely a cold-hearted killer who even surprised me at the lengths that he/she would go to in order to keep everyone quiet.<br />This book shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!).  This was a delightful look at feisty friends that do not let their age hinder them from solving murders.  The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was a great addition to the first four.  Great for all ages!<br />The first book in this series is \\"The J Alfred Prufrock Murders\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-21
US	44620071	R3N6T5YJV9D2PZ	0425143295	407667737	Over the Edge	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Over the Edge on the History	The 3rd book in the Melissa Craig mystery series finds the sleuth in the French countryside with friend and neighbor, Iris Ash.  They have gone to the Cevennes mountains so that Iris can teach an art workshop and Melissa can do research on her next mystery novel.  While they are visiting, two guests of the art/language school are found dead at the bottom of the mountains, and even though the police are hard pressed to point to murder, Melissa sees intrigue everywhere.  During her search into the local history, she uncovers a sinister plot dating back to the Occupation of the Nazis, and helps the local police find a murderer in their midst.<br />I have enjoyed the previous two mysteries written by Betty Rowlands much more than I enjoyed this latest installment.  I felt the book dragged at times (I skipped several paragraphs, which I rarely do) and thought there was too much background information given regarding the local history.  However, I still enjoyed the mystery, and even though I was not as interested in the history lesson offered, others may like this portion much more than I did.  I definitely believe that Ms. Rowlands is an excellent author, and I will be reading the remaining books in this series.  If you like cozy mysteries, I would recommend reading the previous two books in this series before reading this book.<br />The first book in this series is \\"A Little Gentle Sleuthing\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Mystery Lover	2003-07-18
US	44620071	R2YBF3GAI31THW	0451207246	862475559	How to Murder a Millionaire (Blackbird Sisters Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Meet the Blackbird Widows!	The first book in the Blackbird Sisters mystery series introduces us to a sleek, yet unlucky sleuth trying to stay on the top of the social ladder.  The narrator, Nora Blackbird, is a widow (her husband died in a drug deal gone bad) with a $2 million tax bill left to her by her free-spirited parents.  When her parents left the country to avoid paying back taxes, Nora got the property (with the tax bill as an added bonus) and her two sisters got the furniture and the art collection.  Swallowing her pride, Nora takes a job (albeit a swanky one) writing for the gossip/society page at one of Philadelphia's newspapers.  She owes this cushy job to family friend and newspaper owner, Rory Penderghast.  However, when she attends a party thrown to honor the newspaper and its lengthy history, she has the unfortunate honor of finding Rory dead in his room.  Believing that he could have never killed himself, Nora is determined to find a killer and keep her family's good name in the process.<br />Even though the premise of the series is a bit implausible, I loved this book about these hilarious sisters!  They were plucky in the face of doom (how could you ever repay $2 million?) and were determined to triumph over the hard times in their lives.  I was glad to see that Nora did not have a completely naïve attitude about money (she did wear her grandmother's evening gowns to parties) but there is something odd about a woman who acts nonchalantly about millions owed to the IRS.  Nevertheless, I found this book fun and interesting, and would definitely recommend this book for a lighthearted, fun read.  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-18
US	44620071	RXKS1IT09M4DX	0380792885	477283395	Gator Aide (Rachel Porter Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	I was gripped by the tale of this gator	The first book in the Rachel Porter mystery series introduced a gritty sleuth that has an unusual job.  Rachel is a Fish and Wildlife agent in New Orleans and is fighting the \\"good old boys network\\" in many ways.  Her boss is as tough as they come, and she struggles to prove to him that she can do more than sit in a boat all night searching for duck poachers.  The poachers in the swamps make her the laughingstock of town, and Rachel is determined to bring in a large-scale poacher that her boss has been chasing for years.  However, her main focus is a dead alligator that was found chained to a bathtub in the middle of a murder scene, and Rachel is determined that the gator died from more than the bullet holes riddling its skull.  But when she finds out that practically everyone in New Orleans politics is corrupt, what can she do to save her job?  And when she is attacked, how can she save herself from being skinned just like the poached gators?<br />This was my first look at this engaging mystery series and I was not disappointed.  Usually I like more \\"cozy\\" mysteries (those with no overt violence or sex) and I was a bit surprised at some of the bloody scenes in the book.  However, I would not say that it was overly violent, and I would probably compare the violence in this book to some of the books written by Sue Grafton (and I have loved all of her books so far).  I enjoyed that this character had a bit more sass than some of the sleuths in the cozy genre, and I thought that the premise of the series was fresh and interesting.  I will definitely read other books in this series as I was sucked into the swamps right along with this intriguing character!<br />Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-17
US	44620071	R10LRK70GYSJBQ	0380804921	604572911	The House of Seven Mabels (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Renovations Can Be Murder!	The 13th book in the Jane Jeffrey shows Jane and her best friend Shelley Nowack at work again.  These two suburban mothers are asked to help old friend, Bitsy, renovate/redecorate her Victorian home and the two, looking for something to ease their boredom, agree to help.  It seems that Bitsy only wants female contractors working on the house, and when Jane and Shelley show up, they realize that the lead contractor is a bit too demanding.  When she ends up dead, Jane and Shelley once again are determined to find a killer.  Add to this the fact that all of the renovations are going wrong (with a prankster adding to the mess), and Jane again finds herself in a situation she feels she has to \\"fix\\".<br />I have enjoyed each of the books in this series more for the relationships between the characters rather than the suspense of the mysteries.  This was a good addition to the series, and I like the fact that Jane is becoming more independent (she keeps working on her book) and actually buys herself and her son computers.  If Jane would only buy herself a new car, she would be all set!  On the whole, I would recommend reading this book if you enjoy cozy mysteries even if you have not read any of the previous books in this series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Grime and Punishment\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-16
US	44620071	R17E3YCLLUM8JN	0312983867	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum, No. 8) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Eight is Not Enough!	The 8th book in the Stephanie Plum series is another gem from writer, Janet Evanovich.  Fans of the series could not wait to get their hands on this release, and new readers will be delighted at the antics of the characters in these books.  In this installment, Stephanie's mother asks her to find a neighbor's missing relative, and family loyalty (and boredom) spurs Stephanie to take on the case.  However, when she gets involved, a shady landlord starts warning her off the scent, and suddenly Stephanie finds out his henchman are following her.  When various bad things start to happen, (i.e. her car gets blown up again, she is followed by someone in a bunny suit, snakes wind up in her apartment, and a dead body appears on her couch) Stephanie knows she is in way too deep.  She enlists the help of the sexy Ranger to help her out of this jam, and also finds herself with help from both Grandma Mazur and Lula.  All of the favorite characters from previous installments return, and their antics will have you laughing aloud.<br />I cannot believe that there are people who actually have not read this series!  Stephanie Plum is a hilarious character, and her slapstick comedy has made me laugh aloud at some strange times.  If I read these books in front of other people, they invariably ask me what is so funny, and I can never quite relate the story as well as Ms. Evanovich can!  There are few mystery books that can make me laugh as much as this series and yet keep me interested in the mystery, but this series does it all.  Who else but Stephanie Plum can have every car she has ever owned wrecked in some way (they usually blow up), and be chased by a person in a bunny suit?  If you have never read any of the books in the series, join the millions of others that have and get reading today!<br />The first book in the series is \\"One for the Money\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-16
US	44620071	R1XZTBWDZRVZEV	0380977362	604572911	The House of Seven Mabels (Jane Jeffry Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Home Repair Can Be Murder!	The 13th book in the Jane Jeffrey shows Jane and her best friend Shelley Nowack at work again.  These two suburban mothers are asked to help old friend, Bitsy, renovate/redecorate her Victorian home and the two, looking for something to ease their boredom, agree to help.  It seems that Bitsy only wants female contractors working on the house, and when Jane and Shelley show up, they realize that the lead contractor is a bit too demanding.  When she ends up dead, Jane and Shelley once again are determined to find a killer.  Add to this the fact that all of the renovations are going wrong (with a prankster adding to the mess), and Jane again finds herself in a situation she feels she has to \\"fix\\".<br />I have enjoyed each of the books in this series more for the relationships between the characters rather than the suspense of the mysteries.  This was a good addition to the series, and I like the fact that Jane is becoming more independent (she keeps working on her book) and actually buys herself and her son computers.  If Jane would only buy herself a new car, she would be all set!  On the whole, I would recommend reading this book if you enjoy cozy mysteries even if you have not read any of the previous books in this series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Grime and Punishment\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-16
US	44620071	R19KBOM2AU2UDV	0312207689	720199820	Agatha Raisin and the Case of the Curious Curate (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 13)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Who Murdered the Curate?	In this 13th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha is unlucky in love again.  She returns from another P.R. project in London only to find that the village church has a new curate, Tristian.  It seems he is there to help the vicar, Alf Bloxsby (husband of Agatha's friend, Mrs. Bloxsby), who is not at all sure that he is actually \\"helping\\" him at all.  All of the Carsley ladies are soon taken with this handsome curate, and even Agatha succumbs to his charms.  After having dinner with him, Agatha soon learns that the playboy curate is found dead, and there are plenty of suspects in his death.  Did Agatha kill him because he was nasty to her at dinner?  Did Alf Bloxsby kill him for taking over his parish?  Or was he killed by one of his supposed admirers?<br />I have loved each of the installments in this series, and this book did not disappoint.  Agatha is as sharp as ever (in both wit and in tongue) and I enjoyed the fact that Mrs. Bloxsby played a larger role in this case.  I was happy to see that Agatha's former love interest, James Lacey, did not take a large role in this book, and I look forward to a new romance for her in future books.  If you like cozy mysteries, than this book (and the entire series) is for you.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R21DJPPNCOLXGM	075820230X	95177255	Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Who Murders for Cookies?	In the first book in the Hannah Swensen mystery series, we meet our sleuth, an owner of The Cookie Jar in Lake Eden, Minnesota.  In her first case, she stumbles across the dead body of a long-time friend and delivery man for her bakery and feels the need to investigate his suspicious death.  As her brother-in-law is a police officer, she finds that she has a lot more inside information (add to this fact that she lives in a small town) and she is able to piece together this mystery and solve the murder before too many people get hurt.<br />I love all of the books in this series but felt that this book was a bit hard to follow.  Being the first, I was glad that I kept reading the other books in the series as this one was a bit harder to \\"get into\\" than some of the other books.  I enjoyed the character development in this book and felt that the relationships between the characters were more interesting than was the mystery.  I found it difficult to keep track of all of the characters at the beginning, and found it somewhat annoying that in the dialogue they repeat each other's names quite often.  Other than that, I enjoy the books and the yummy recipes included.  Do not read these books on an empty stomach or you will quickly begin searching for some sweets!  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R1VWAG8H4RPJUA	078624402X	756631278	Murder of a Sleeping Beauty: A Scumble River Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Even Prince Charming Couldn't Save This Beauty!	In the 3rd book in the Scumble River mystery series, we see amateur sleuth, Skye Denison still working hard at fitting into her hometown and happily counseling students at her job.  Skye is a school psychologist, returning home to live and work after humiliating herself while delivering a valedictorian speech 12 years prior.  It seems that Skye left with a chip on her shoulder about \\"the small minds of those in a small town\\" and has to return home with her tail tucked firmly between her legs after losing her last job.  Since she left her last job in disgrace (although not her fault), the only job she can get is in the school system that she shunned when she left town.  While trying to re-establish herself in her hometown, she helped to solve two previous cases that have cleared family members of murder.<br />In this case, Skye finds the body of Sleeping Beauty on stage at the high school, but this time no Prince Charming will come to her rescue.  It seems that this former pageant competitor has been murdered, and there is a long list of suspects in her death.  Skye has difficulties investigating this case as her police contact is mad at her, and she is stymied by the high school kids and their parents.  Why did this seemingly popular girl have so many enemies?  Who really killed this beauty?  With the help of her mother and possible love interest, Simon Reid, Sky sets out to find the truth about this girl and her not-so-fairy tale life.<br />I enjoyed this book although I found myself skipping a few paragraphs here and there while reading it.  The mystery was appealing although I found that I had solved it earlier than I normally do.  The characters are very interesting, and the aspect that I like the most in this series is the relationships between all of the people in this small town.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries set in small town America, give this series a try.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Murder of a Small Town Honey\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R2E6FP3TSKNJE8	0451205480	756631278	Murder of a Sleeping Beauty (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Even Prince Charming Couldn't Save This Beauty!	In the 3rd book in the Scumble River mystery series, we see amateur sleuth, Skye Denison still working hard at fitting into her hometown and happily counseling students at her job.  Skye is a school psychologist, returning home to live and work after humiliating herself while delivering a valedictorian speech 12 years prior.  It seems that Skye left with a chip on her shoulder about \\"the small minds of those in a small town\\" and has to return home with her tail tucked firmly between her legs after losing her last job.  Since she left her last job in disgrace (although not her fault), the only job she can get is in the school system that she shunned when she left town.  While trying to re-establish herself in her hometown, she helped to solve two previous cases that have cleared family members of murder.<br />In this case, Skye finds the body of Sleeping Beauty on stage at the high school, but this time no Prince Charming will come to her rescue.  It seems that this former pageant competitor has been murdered, and there is a long list of suspects in her death.  Skye has difficulties investigating this case as her police contact is mad at her, and she is stymied by the high school kids and their parents.  Why did this seemingly popular girl have so many enemies?  Who really killed this beauty?  With the help of her mother and possible love interest, Simon Reid, Sky sets out to find the truth about this girl and her not-so-fairy tale life.<br />I enjoyed this book although I found myself skipping a few paragraphs here and there while reading it.  The mystery was appealing although I found that I had solved it earlier than I normally do.  The characters are very interesting, and the aspect that I like the most in this series is the relationships between all of the people in this small town.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries set in small town America, give this series a try.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Murder of a Small Town Honey\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R1VS4Q7V5JU7YW	0451202724	697095682	Murder of a Sweet Old Lady (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 2)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Interesting Small-Town Cozy!	In the 2nd book in the Scumble River mystery series, we see amateur sleuth, Skye Denison working hard at fitting into her hometown and finishing up the school year.  Skye is a school psychologist, returning home to live and work after humiliating herself while delivering a valedictorian speech 12 years prior.  It seems that Skye left with a chip on her shoulder about \\"the small minds of those in a small town\\" and has to return home with her tail tucked firmly between her legs after losing her last job.  Since she left her last job in disgrace (although it was not her fault), the only job she can get is in the school system that she shunned when she left town.  While trying to re-establish herself in her hometown, she helped to solve a previous case that cleared her brother of murder.<br />In this case, Skye has been spending a lot of time with her grandmother to re-establish broken ties and to learn more about family history.  When her grandmother dies suddenly after being given a clean bill of health from her doctor, Skye gets suspicious.  And when she learns that her grandmother's caretaker has vanished, family members start to hypothesize that she murdered the grandmother.  While suspecting everyone (including her own family members) Skye determines that she will ferret out some old family secrets and in doing so will prove who killed her grandmother.  Add to this that Skye is having difficulties with some students at school, and you have an interesting, engaging cozy mystery!<br />I enjoyed this book much more than I had the first book in this series.  I felt that the first book was valuable for its character development but did not offer as much of an interesting read as this one did.  I like the characters in Scumble River, and enjoyed all of the relationships between family members as described in this book.  I also enjoyed the fact that Skye faced a huge ethical dilemma, and it was interesting to see how she would handle this situation.  If you like cozy mysteries involving small towns, give this series a try.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Murder of a Small Town Honey\\".  Enjoy!ysteries involving small towns, give this series a try.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Murder of a Small Town Honey\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R2KT2DH2E726Q3	0380819651	490396774	Tiles and Tribulations (Den of Antiquity)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Got Ghosts?  Call Madam Woo-Woo!	In the 8th book in the Abigail Timberlake mystery series involving an antique dealer who solves crimes, Abigail finds herself at a s&eacute;ance and is skeptical and sharp-tongued as always.  It seems her friend, C.J., believes there are ghosts haunting her new mansion, and she hires a medium/psychic to get the ghosts out.  Feeling pressured, Abby attends, but when Madam Woo-Woo dies from poison shortly after the s&eacute;ance, Abby must step in and help her friend prove her innocence in the murder investigation.  When Abby stumbles on some authentic 17th Century tiles that are worth a fortune on the mansion's walls, she quickly moves to forget the murder and focus on antiques.  The fortune hunt is called off, however, when during her search, Abby finds another body buried in the wall.  Getting unwelcome help from a group called the Heavenly Hustlers (of which Abby's mother is a member), Abigail must find the murderer before she ends up as a ghost herself.<br />I have liked each of Tamar Myers' books in this series, and the other involving Magdelena Yoder.  Her books are witty (although she reuses many of the same puns in several of the books throughout the series) and have me laughing aloud in many cases.  This book was interesting and the mystery engaging.  I would recommend reading this book if you enjoy cozy mysteries with a bit of humor.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Larceny and Old Lace\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R19ZXJJNTEHUTN	0451200551	399447374	Murder of a Small-Town Honey (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 1)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Talk about Foot in the Mouth Syndrome!	In the first book in the Scumble River mystery series, we meet amateur sleuth, Skye Denison for the first time.  Skye is a school psychologist, returning home to live and work after humiliating herself while delivering a valedictorian speech 12 years prior.  It seems that Skye left with a chip on her shoulder about \\"the small minds of those in a small town\\" and has to return home with her tail tucked firmly between her legs after losing her last job.  Since she left her last job in disgrace (although not her fault), the only job she can get is in the school system that she shunned when she left town.  While trying to re-establish herself in her hometown, she soon finds herself involved in a murder case in which her brother is the prime suspect.  Skye spends an inordinate amount of time evading snooping relatives in this book, but still manages to solve the case and help her brother.  But will this be enough for the town to accept her again?<br />This book should definitely be considered a cozy mystery (a mystery that has no graphic violence, no gratuitous sex, and all of the bloodshed is \\"off-camera\\") in that it focuses a lot on characters.  Some may criticize the book for not having a good plot, but I like to look at this book as a background for other books in the series.  The mystery was decent, and I liked the descriptions of the town, the characters, and the situations in which Skye found herself.  Skye has a lot of work to do healing her strained relationships with everyone in town, and I liked that she was a vulnerable character willing to admit mistakes.  Having read all of the other books in this series, I would definitely recommend reading this book first for the background information, and then reading another in the series.  I feel that the author gets better with each book, and I cannot wait to visit Scumble River again.  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R26CZWDIOJEDDP	1575667215	58214510	Strawberry Shortcake Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Who Doesn't Love a Good Strawberry Shortcake?	The 2nd book in the Hannah Swensen mystery series involves another case solved by an owner of a Minnesota bakery called The Cookie Jar.  Hannah is also an amateur sleuth (having previously helped the police solve a murder involving a friend) and likes to get involved in police matters in between baking.  In this book, the murder victim is Coach Boyd, a loudmouth, and nasty judge at the town's first Hartland Flour Baking Contest.  He is murdered, and his battered wife enlists Hannah's help in finding the murderer, claiming her innocence.  However, with her fingerprints all over the murder weapon and a strong motive of spousal abuse even Hannah will have trouble proving this abused wife's innocence.<br />This was an excellent read more for the character relationships than it was for the mystery.  Although the mystery was interesting, I find the characters engaging and the town \\"warm\\" despite the cold temperatures.  The dialogue between the characters gets repetitive at times (they are constantly repeating one another's names) but overall, this is a light, entertaining mystery series.  Also included in these books are yummy recipes that you can try which is a nice treat while you read the books!<br />I would recommend that you read the first book in the series, The Chocolate Chip Cookie Murders, before you read this book as it gives a lot of background on the other characters in this series.  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R3USHTIOT6RUE1	0553297341	951815251	Gone to the Dogs (A Dog Lover's Mystery)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Oh where, oh where did my little vet go?	The 5th book in the Dog Lover's mystery series follows Holly Winter, dog lover/owner, on her next case.  It seems that Holly and her two Malamutes, Kimi and Rowdy, are always finding themselves in the middle of investigations!  This case involves missing vet, Oscar Patterson, and Holly cannot seem to let the mystery go.  She asks mutual friends for information regarding the vet, and soon learns that another acquaintance has vanished, supposedly with the vet.  Have these two run off together or was it murder?  Can Holly and her two canine companions solve this case?<br />I have enjoyed the four previous books in the series and was a bit surprised by this installment.  The author has signed with a new publisher, and I noticed right away that this book was much longer than the previous four.  Even though her books were always pretty cerebral, this one seemed much more so to me.  I enjoy the fact that I have to \\"think\\" I bit more when I am reading Conant's books, but at times I found the storyline a bit hard to follow.  However, I love all of the aspects involving the dogs, and I believe that these books offer a wealth of information regarding dogs.  As the author has done in the past, in this book she focuses on one topic of pet ownership that she feels strongly about.  In this book, the author speaks strongly about harsh training methods, and the \\"unprofessional\\" trainers that practice them.  If you are interested in dogs and like mysteries (albeit not the \\"simple\\" variety) this is a good series for you!<br />The first book in this series is \\"Paws Before Dying\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-11
US	44620071	R2M5HKBOR1247V	0425152561	739461771	Mrs. Jeffries and the Missing Alibi (Victorian Mystery)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Could Inspector Witherspoon Commit Murder?	In the 8th book in the Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries series, the staff at Upper Edmonton Gardens has new motivation to help the Inspector solve another case.  In this Victorian mystery, Inspector Witherspoon of Scotland Yard is being framed...that is, someone is impersonating the Inspector, and a murder takes place!  Since Inspector Witherspoon has a weak alibi for the time of the murder, he is taken off the case and his staff immediately jumps in to prove his innocence.  Will they be able to prove that the Inspector did not commit the murder?<br />This book is like the previous books in the series in that the strength of the books comes mainly from the characters.  I enjoy the growing relationships between the members of Inspector Witherspoon's staff and like seeing how they will avoid having the Inspector figure out that they are helping him.  This case is a bit different because of the fact that the staff needs the Inspector's help, and I enjoyed his reaction when he sees how much his staff can do for him.  The mystery was a bit easier to solve than some of the others, but it was still a quick, delightful read.<br />The first book in this series is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-07
US	44620071	R2VGTPGXQYYBT1	0312207670	943670599	Agatha Raisin and the Day the Floods Came (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 12)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Who Killed the Bride?	In the 12th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha is still feeling a bit blue after her husband, James Lacey, leaves her to join a monastery.  Saying that his brain tumor is now cured, he tells Agatha that he wants to become a monk and moves to France.  Sad and alone, Agatha takes a holiday to a small island, and while she is there, she spots a newlywed couple, only to find out days later that the groom murdered the bride.  Returning home, Agatha is determined to forget about James and Sir Charles Fraith, who has also married.  When another dead body shows up (again in a wedding dress), Agatha feels that the fates are screaming at her to get involved.  Is it suicide or is it murder?  A new love interest, next door neighbor John Armitage, might be just the help Agatha needs to solve her latest case.<br />The Agatha Raisin series is one of my favorite cozy mystery series on the market today.  Agatha is a tough cookie, but definitely has a warmer side that she keeps hidden from the casual observer.  Her antics are legendary, and even though her motives are usually good, she always finds herself in heaps of trouble.  I am glad that James has moved on in this book, as his character was annoying and selfish.  I am eager to see Agatha with a decent love interest, but feel that all of her love problems may add to her charm.  If you like cozy mysteries and have not tried this series, pick up a copy today and join all of the Agatha fans from around the world!<br />The first book in this series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-07
US	44620071	R2WKAMAV7KVZ2F	0758201508	206177949	Lemon Meringue Pie Murder (Hannah Swensen Mysteries)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Too Many Calories Can Be Murder To Your Waistline!	Hannah Swensen returns in the 4th book in this series.  In this installment, Hannah jumps in to help solve a murder when a lemon meringue pie from her bakery, The Cookie Jar, is found at the crime scene.  When Norman Rhodes, one of Hannah's \\"boyfriends\\", purchases a home, he does not realize that the dead body of the previous owner will be found inside.  It seems that this owner, Rhonda, stopped at her old home to pick up a few last items and thought she would have one last meal there.  This meal was definitely her last, as the person that met her there may have been the last to see her alive!  Adding to Hannah's troubles is the fact that some of her clothes just seem too tight, and so she sets out to put herself on a diet (even while she is baking all kinds of yummy cookies!).  Playing a part in this mystery is Hannah's nagging mother, Norman's mother, and Mike, the policeman who usually fights to keep Hannah out of each case but finally gives up this time.  As Hannah fights to keep her life in order and her weight in check, she must find a killer before he/she strikes again!<br />I have enjoyed each of the Hannah Swensen mysteries and have loved the recipes that are included in each book.  Each time I have read one of the books, I find myself getting hungry (not good for my waistline either!) for all of the goodies that Hannah serves.  The mysteries are interesting, but as I like culinary cozies, I enjoy the books more for the food and the characters.  My only complaint about this series has to be in the dialogue between characters, as they are constantly repeating each other's names.  Other than that, this delightful read will leave you \\"hungry\\" for more!<br />The first book in this series is \\"The Chocolate Chip Cookie Murder\\".  Enjoy!<br />A Cozy Lover	2003-07-07
US	44620071	R5BJD3NMEEUPU	0312983182	934615829	Agatha Raisin and the Love from Hell (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 11)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Why did she ever marry James?	In this 11th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha finally seems to have it all, but is once again miserable.  She has finally married the man of her dreams (or so she thinks), James Lacey, but marriage is not all that she thought it would be.  It seems that Agatha is not the kind of housewife that James had been hoping for (she turns his laundry pink, serves him microwave meals, and smokes in the house) and she soon begins to feel lonely and depressed.  Just when Agatha thinks she cannot tolerate him for another second, James disappears leaving only blood behind.  Frantic, Agatha turns to friend, Sir Charles Fraith, to help her discover what has happened to her new husband.  Her chief suspect is James' ex-lover, but when she turns up murdered, James becomes the prime suspect.  Determined to not only find her man, but also to prove him innocent of murder, Agatha sets out on a suspenseful mission of murder and mayhem.<br />Every book in this series just gets better and better!  Even though I find the character of James Lacey despicable, I feel that he is one of those characters that we just love to hate.  He is mean, selfish, and hard to please, but yet Agatha tries to win his affections and attention over and over again.  This may shed an unkind light on Agatha for some, but I believe that this goes along with her inherit character flaw of having low self-esteem.  To combat this, Agatha puts herself in many precarious situations and butts her nose in other people's business at every turn.  She is so successful at her blundering that each time Agatha solves the mystery and catches a murderer!  She picks up more depth of character with each book, and readers of this series quickly become fans of this high-spirited, yet warm-hearted soul.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-06
US	44620071	RXAIPKCW011MJ	0312976267	786144846	Agatha Raisin and the Fairies of Fryfam (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 10)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Do you believe in fairies?	In this 10th adventure of Agatha Raisin, we see our heroine gloomy over the loss of romance with love-interest, James Lacey.  To cheer herself up, Agatha sticks a pin in a map, and sets out for holiday in the village of Fryfam.  She rents a cottage, and soon meets a group of ladies from the local women's club that she immediately tries to impress by saying she is writing a novel.  However, she soon becomes embroiled in another murder investigation, when the title character of her \\"novel\\" dies in real life and she is implicated in his death.  Add to this the \\"lights\\" she sees at the edge of her garden, a stolen painting, another murder, and the theft of Agatha's two cats and the reader finds themselves in the middle of a perfect case for Agatha!  Will Agatha triumph in a village so far away (in distance and in culture) from her own?<br />I have cherished every book in the Agatha Raisin series and this book was a delight.  Although some of the other characters were noticeably absent (not much was heard from Mrs. Bloxsby or Roy Silver), I still enjoyed reading about the zany adventures of Agatha Raisin.  Once again, this plucky sleuth sticks her nose in where most people would not, and in the process she finds courage to always catch the killer!<br />The first book in this series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-06
US	44620071	R32H5L541AOR6B	0449221725	676494410	Peanut Butter Murders	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Peanut Butter Did Not Do It!	The 4th book in the Retirement Mysteries by Corinne Holt Sawyer finds the ladies from Camden-sur-Mer at it again.  Friends Angela Benbow and Caledonia Wingate investigate the death of Alexander Lightfoot, who was engaged to one of the residents at their retirement community. (not a nursing home!)  Even though these two are in their 80's, no one dares to tell them that they are too old to investigate murders, and when they find out the victim was healthy and not suicidal, they immediately decide it was murder.  When a second murder victim is found, Angela and Caledonia dig deeper to help Lt. Martinez solve this case, and find out no one (not even the victim) is as they would seem.<br />I enjoyed the latest book in this series about the irrepressible Angela and Caledonia.  Playing a larger part in this book is Tom Brighton, another resident in the community, and his cheerful demeanor in the midst of hip pain adds to the notion that the elderly are adventurous in many ways.  I like the spunk and determination of the characters in this series, and I found myself laughing aloud at their antics.<br />This book shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!). This was a delightful look at a feisty group of retirement residents that work together to help the police solve a murder. The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was a great addition to the first three. Great for all ages!<br />The first book in this series is \\"The J Alfred Prufrock Murders\\". Enjoy!	2003-07-06
US	44620071	R9A3IHTR7EMMG	0451178726	752964339	Dr. Nightingale Comes Home (Dr. Nightingale Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Vets Solve Murders Too!	This book is the first in the series about Dr. Deidre Quinn Nightingale, a vet in rural New York.  Dr. Nightingale has come home following the death of her mother, and plans to set up a vet practice in the home that her mother willed her.  She has also \\"inherited\\" several members of her mother's previous household staff and they play a large role in the series.  In this book, Dr. Nightingale investigates the untimely death of her old friend, Dick Obey.  She soon learns it was murder, and uses her skills with animals to help her solve the case.<br />I liked this first book in the series enough to continue to read further books in the series, although I felt that Dr. Nightingale was at first glance, a not very \\"lovable\\" sleuth.  However, I feel that her character grows on the reader, and I have found (after reading several of the other books in the series) that she develops more strength and depth of character with each new book.  Otherwise, I found the mystery interesting, and am looking forward to seeing more of Dr. Nightingale.  Enjoy!	2003-07-04
US	44620071	R1507A3MG4CU8S	045120834X	780843560	Murder of a Snake in the Grass (Scumble River Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Who Really Was the Snake in this Book?	This book is the 4th Book in the Scumble River Mystery series written by Denise Swanson.  In this installment, Skye Denison has a lot to deal with.  The town of Scumble River is celebrating its bicentennial by throwing a large celebration, which means everyone in town will be participating in the events.  Skye's ex-fianc&eacute;, Luc St. Amant, has chosen this time to come to town to try to win over Skye's heart once more, bringing into question whether Skye wants to turn to the past for a romance, or if she sees herself in a long-term relationship with her current love interest, Simon Reid.  Also adding to her trouble is a gang of rowdy teenagers and then the murder of the guest of honor at the Scumble River celebration.  At first, Skye does not want to get involved in the murder investigation, but when several people close to Skye become involved, she once again sets out to find a killer.<br />I have really enjoyed the entire Scumble River series, and this book was a delight.  This book was interesting and entertaining with just the right amount of suspense thrown in.  I thought I knew the identity of the killer several times throughout the book, but was mildly surprised at the ending.  I was also happy to see that Skye makes a decision about her love life at the end of this book, since I felt that the Simon/Wally triangle had dragged on long enough.  This is a fun, easy read for any cozy mystery lover.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Murder of a Small-Town Honey\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-04
US	44620071	R265V32TWSLI5	0696019809	899940406	Better Homes and Gardens Family Favorites Made Lighter	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Eat Lighter Foods Without Losing the Taste!	This cookbook has become a staple in my already-large cookbook collection.  I have used this book many times to &quot;lighten&quot; up a family favorite dish, and have made many of the recipes contained here.  The book is organized in the following categories:  Getting to Know Good Nutrition, Mouth-Watering Main Dishes, Tempting Side Dishes, Enticing Desserts,  and Refreshing Snacks.<br />Some of my family's favorites include:  Beef Stroganoff, Spaghetti Pie, Fajitas, Scalloped Potatoes and Ham, Coq Au Vin, Chicken &amp; Dumplings, Oven Fried Chicken, Chicken PotPie, Tuna Noodle Casserole, Quiche Lorraine, Macaroni &amp; Cheese, No Fried Ice Milk, Creamy Coleslaw, German-Style Potato Salad, Caramel Rolls, Pumpkin Bars, Carrot Cake, and Heavenly Cheesecake,<br />The recipes try to offer lower sodium, fat, calories, and cholesterol than the original &quot;family&quot; favorites, without decreasing taste.  My family could barely tell these were not the original versions, and I feel good lowering fat and sodium wherever I can.  This cookbook may not offer many &quot;gourmet&quot; dishes, but it gives wonderful recipes for favorite recipes you thought you could not enjoy anymore because of the high fat/sodium/cholesterol content.  Enjoy!	2003-07-04
US	44620071	RP76JV4I2AI5L	0786861126	873726234	Family Fun Cookbook: 250 Irresistible Recipes for You and Your Kids	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Great Cooking With Kids!	Originally I picked up this cookbook to cook with my young sons, but quickly realized that there were wonderful grown-up recipes available in this book too.  Hardcover, with a binding that lies flat on the counter, this book offers colorful graphics and pictures of the majority of the recipes presented.  It is arranged in the following categories:  Getting Ready, Breakfast:  Rise &amp; Shine, Lunch Specials, After-School Snacks, Soup's On, Breads we Love, Dinner's Ready, Side Dishes &amp; Salads, Can I have Dessert, and Home for the Holidays.<br />Some of my family's favorite dishes include:  Banana Split Waffles, PB &amp; J Surprise Muffins, Strawberry Butter, Hummus, Falafel Flying Saucers, Nuke-able Nachos, Sneak-It-to-Em Broccoli Soup, Potato Chip Chicken Fingers, Baked Sweet Potatoes with Orange Sauce, Rock Candy, Leaning Tower of Oreos, Blueberry Fool, and Red, White, &amp; Blueberry Freeze Pops.  Also nicely included are some recipes for Play Doughs, with ideas on how to even make your own scented dough!<br />This was an excellent addition to my cookbook collection and my family has fun selecting and trying new recipes out of this extensive cookbook.  If you want to teach your kids to cook, or want to find recipes sure to please even the finicky eater, then you should try this cookbook.  Enjoy!	2003-07-04
US	44620071	R1X6HUCYWVGK3M	1561483397	246790704	Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook: Feasting with Your Slow Cooker	Books	5	14	17	N	N	You Mean I Don't Have to Slave Over a Hot Stove?	I purchased this cookbook to help me on those days that I planned ahead for a meal but simply would not be home all day to watch over something cooking in the oven.  With a busy family that spends time at hockey arenas throughout the year, a husband with a full-time job and a small business he owns, and finishing up my Master's Degree, we needed good meals that were ready when we are.  This cookbook offers many delicious, nutritious, and easy to assemble dishes that you can throw in the crockpot (or slow cooker) and leave to live your daily life!<br />Assembled in a binder format which easily lays flat, the book is divided into several recipe categories:  appetizers/snacks/spreads, breakfast foods, breads, soups/stews/chilis, main dishes, bean main dishes, vegetables, desserts, and beverages.  I was surprised that you could actually make desserts and beverages in a slow cooker (I had never considered doing this before) and was excited to try some of these recipes.<br />Some of my family's favorites included Cheesy Potatoes, Macaroni and Cheese, One-Dish Chicken Supper, Barbara's Chicken Rice Casserole, Pork Chops &amp; Gravy, Beef Ribs, Lazy Day Stew, and Applesauce.  Most of the meals are easy to prepare and most \\"traditional\\" meals have several recipes so that you can pick your favorite.  This is a great addition to any cookbook collection and a must for busy families!  Enjoy!	2003-07-02
US	44620071	RWVGTA1OGD8UQ	0696207087	707236484	Better Homes and Gardens New Junior Cookbook	Books	5	177	179	N	N	Let the Kids Cook!	I picked up this cookbook in the hopes that I could teach my 7-year-old some basics about cooking that would last him well into his life.  (And that it would hopefully prepare him for cooking in his single life, and possibly even encourage him to cook for his wife when he gets married someday!)  I loved the bright graphics and beautiful pictures of the recipes, and the easy-to-follow format was great for my son.  There was a lot of helpful information included regarding cooking basics, planning a menu, setting a table, how to eat healthy, reading food labels, and great pictures of different types of equipment used for cooking.<br />Some of the recipes that we enjoyed making together included Eggceptional Breakfast Bake, Tom Thumb's Tacos, Tangled Twisters, Chicken Dippin' Sticks, and Chocolate Pudding Bottoms Up Cake.  He was really proud to be able to make something for the family to eat, and I thought he learned good lessons about shopping, food preparation, and clean-up.  This is a great book to share with your kids!  Enjoy!	2003-07-02
US	44620071	R1TZEV073BDV2R	060960838X	64041425	Pillsbury: Best of the Bake-Off Cookbook: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bake with the Best!	Paging through this cookbook is always a bit of an adventure and promises to yield a delicious dish for just about every occasion.  Whether you are looking for a dessert (some of the best recipes in this book are for desserts) or for a main dish, there is something for everyone in this book.<br />Some of my family's favorites include Creamy Broccoli and Rice Soup, Savory Crescent Chicken Squares, and Ramen Vegetable Beef Stir-Fry.  Our favorite goodies include Caramel-Filled Chocolate Cookies, Pecan Pie Surprise Bars, Raspberry Filled White Chocolate Bars, Caramel Apple Cake, Peanut Butter Crunch Cake, and Cookie Cheesecake Squares.<br />I have used this cookbook on many occasions and although I love the recipes, I wish that the book was in a binder instead of a hardcover book.  Also, I tend to like cookbooks with more pictures, but I felt that the stories that were included about many of the winners was an excellent addition to this book.  Overall, I highly enjoy trying many of these recipes and I feel it is an excellent addition to any cookbook collection.  Enjoy!	2003-07-01
US	44620071	R2BFSMLCBWSZ7W	0312966954	356746275	Agatha Raisin and the Wellspring of Death (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Who Wants to Buy This Water?	In this 7th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha is asked to come out of retirement to help a local firm promote its spring water, bottled from a historic village spring.  The parish council members are divided on whether to agree to the deal, and one of the members soon turns up dead...in the spring!  Agatha must put a spin on this P.R. disaster, and in the process once again steps in to blunder her way to solving the case.<br />The Agatha Raisin series is one of my favorite cozy mystery series on the market, and I have enjoyed the character development of Agatha throughout the series.  I like that Agatha was able to use some of her P.R. skills in this book, and the fact that the premise to the case was fresh and interesting.  After reading several books in the series I began to wonder how Ms. Beaton would develop new cases for Agatha since it would be odd to have a village where everyone went around killing one another.  (Who would want to live there?)  However, I think that each case Agatha stumbles across (she always happens to be in the wrong place at the wrong time!) is entertaining and somewhat believable.  Agatha is a rich character that is not at all what she seems on the outside, and I believe that it takes several books to get to know the true goodness of this character.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries, you will find that this series is a humorous delight.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-01
US	44620071	R1DN0ZNLGGSYKX	0312973691	455913412	Agatha Raisin and the Witch of Wyckhadden (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 9)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Hail, Hail, the Witch is Dead!	In this 9th book in the Agatha Raisin series, the reader finds Agatha desperately trying to regrow the hair that fell out during her previous case.  She retreats to a resort for some relaxation and to give her hair some time to regrow, and quickly learns that there is a witch in town that might be able to provide a tonic to help in this process.  While she is visiting the witch, she decides to purchase a love potion to help in her never-ending romantic problems.  During her visit to the town, the witch is murdered, and Agatha attempts to help the local police officer solve the case, and also tries to catch his eye in the process.<br />I enjoyed this case primarily because Agatha was not mooning over James Lacey as she has in previous books.  I enjoy the character of Agatha, and since I am rooting for her to have a good romance, I felt that it might actually happen for her with Jimmy.  Overall, I enjoyed the book as a part of the Agatha series, but if you have never read any of the other books it would probably be better to start elsewhere first.  This was not Agatha at her most endearing but still an excellent read.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-07-01
US	44620071	R1JVI0TOEEAVXY	0609602845	940008410	Pillsbury Complete Cookbook: Recipes from America's Most-Trusted Kitchens	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Pillsbury Knows How to Cook!	Having a good cookbook on hand is a must-have for every family, and sometimes it is difficult to sort through the enormous number of books on the market.  I picked up this cookbook because I knew Pillsbury had many yummy dessert recipes, and I was pleasantly surprised with the amount of delicious recipes for every other category.<br />My family loves the Pan-Broiled Steak Smothered in Mushrooms, Lazy-Day Lasagna, Swiss Steak, Oven-Fried Fish, Asian Noodle Salad, and Baked Potato Soup (to name a few).  Also worth mentioning were the recipes for Lemon Pudding Cake, Baked Rice Pudding, Peanut Butter Cups, Chocolate Carmel Layer Bars, and Espresso Brownies.  I especially enjoyed the format of the book, which came in a sturdy binder with tabs for each food category.  The book easily lays flat, and folds up neatly for storage.  Make this cookbook a part of your collection and start making these yummy recipes today!  Enjoy!	2003-07-01
US	44620071	R37I8ITPK4F17O	0425150534	888365607	Mrs. Jeffries Plays the Cook (Victorian Mystery)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Bad Cooking Can Be Murder For Your Stomach!	In this 6th book in the Mrs. Jeffries series, the staff at Upper Edmonton Gardens is asked to help retrieve and return a stolen item to the home of an unsuspecting victim.  It seems that the \\"thief\\" is known to have a slight kleptomania problem (but she returns everything after a few days) and is embarrassed that she will lose her social standing if anyone finds out.  The last time that the thief stole an item a much-hated man, William Barrett, discovered her taking a small china bird from a friend's home, and he threatens to blackmail her.  While trying to take the bird back from Mr. Barrett, one of Inspector Witherspoon's staff stumbles upon Mr. Barrett's dead body in the study and the staff once again have themselves a murder to solve.<br />The latest book in the series was enjoyable but not my favorite so far.  I enjoyed the portions of the book dealing with the failed attempts at cooking for the staff and Inspector Witherspoon (the cook was not present in much of this book due to her visiting a sick relative) by Mrs. Jeffries, Betsy, and Luty Belle Crookshank.  However, the mystery was a bit drawn out and Mrs. Jeffries did not seem like her perceptive self (probably due to the horrible food)!  I would still recommend reading this mystery for the characters, which grow and develop with each book.<br />The first book in the series is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-30
US	44620071	R2638V8TR69CTL	0883658526	282439741	Betty Groff's Pennsylvania Dutch Cookbook	Books	5	17	17	N	N	How Did She Know My Family's Secret Recipes?	I picked up this cookbook hoping to discover some recipes to make for my mother that would remind her of the cooking that she grew up with.  I was not disappointed!  There were several old favorites and many recipes that I could swear were family secrets.  The Dandelion Salad with Bacon Dressing and Potato Filling recipes were very similar to what we make for special occasions, and the Apple Fritters, Hot Potato Salad, Coconut Cake, and the Ham, Green Beans, and Potatoes dishes reminded us of several other recipes we had not made in a long time.  Listed by food type in an easy-to-follow format, the only thing missing in this book was a beautiful picture of each of the recipes.  If you enjoy cooking, are from Penn Dutch country, or just want to sample some regional cooking, this book is a great choice for you!  Enjoy!	2003-06-30
US	44620071	R3LCTBL6QOFWBE	0312283962	941397826	Buttons and Foes: A Mandy Dyer Mystery (Mandy Dyer Mysteries)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mandy Buttons up Another Murder Case!	In this 6th book in the Mandy Dyer mysteries series involving a dry-cleaner who helps solve mysteries, Mandy finds herself as the proud new owner of a bunch of old clothes.  It seems that a long-time customer has left them to Mandy after her death, and Mandy struggles to determine why this customer left her such a large bunch of ragtag clothing.  During her search through the bags of clothes, Mandy discovers that sewn on several garments is a huge collection of buttons, some of which may be valuable.  Thinking of the suspicious nature of her deceased customer's death and the potential value of this button collection, Mandy envisions a possible murder plot.  Mandy sets out to determine if homicide was the case of death, and who the killer could be.  Also included in this mystery is a possible new love interest for Mandy (she finally has broken off her relationship with Stan, the old cop boyfriend from previous novels) that sparks old feelings from the past.<br />I enjoyed the latest book in this series and was surprised at the killer's identity.  The information regarding button collecting was interesting, informative, and added nicely to the mystery.  I also was happy to see that Stan was mostly absent in this case, as he was not a supportive character for Mandy's inquisitive nature.  This is an excellent book to read even if you have not read previous books in the series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Taken to the Cleaners\\".	2003-06-27
US	44620071	R3J69A4AU6LOC2	0312965664	287675514	Agatha Raisin and the Terrible Tourist (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 6)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Tour of Murder	In this 6th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha decides to take a trip to Cyprus to track down one-time fianc&eacute;, James Lacey, who took off after their disastrous almost marriage.  Instead of enjoying a romantic reunion with James, they witness a murder of a fellow tourist.  Staying in their rented \\"honeymoon\\" cottage, Agatha and James work together to solve the murder, but not before the killer strikes again.<br />This book was harder to get into than several of the other in the series.  Overall, this series is one of my favorites in the cozy genre, and I was a bit disappointed in this offering.  Agatha is portrayed as desperate for James' affections, and although I like her vulnerability, I could easily see why James becomes annoyed with her.  With that said, I would still highly recommend this book as a part of the series since it has a decent mystery and an interesting setting.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-26
US	44620071	RV83TVI9E9O44	0312970625	700661938	Agatha Raisin and the Wizard of Evesham (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Hair Raising Mystery!	In the 8th book in the Agatha Raisin series, Agatha turns to a \\"wizard of a hairdresser\\" to repair the damage she has caused to her hair with a home coloring kit.  The hairdresser, Mr. John, is good-looking and quickly charms all of his clients.  Agatha soon falls under his spell, and spills her confidences to him.  When several of his clients appear to be afraid of him, and then he is found dead, Agatha begins to be suspicious that he was murdered.  Sir Charles Fraith, a friend of Agatha's from previous books, suggests to Agatha that Mr. John may have been blackmailing some clients, and one of them killed him to stop the blackmail.  Agatha and Charles set out to discover the murderer, before Agatha gets more than just a bad haircut.<br />I am a huge fan of the Agatha Raisin series and I highly enjoyed this installment.  Noticeably absent in this book is Agatha's on-again, off-again love interest, James Lacey and I since I am not a huge fan of his character, I was glad he was on holiday.  Overall, this is a wonderful book to read if you like cozy mysteries, or want to laugh aloud at some of the troubles with being a middle-aged, single woman.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-26
US	44620071	RUDIISJ1YP69H	0451206835	654957273	Never Tease a Siamese: A Leigh Koslow Mystery (Leigh Koslow Mysteries) (Volume 5)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The Case of the Missing Heir.....	In this 5th book in the Leigh Koslow mystery series, Leigh once again finds herself in the midst of a murder mystery.  At first, it appears that a wealthy eccentric cat lover has died in a plane crash and has left a rather bizarre will.  Leigh's father, a respected vet, has been named to be one of the cat's caretakers, and has been granted a rather large retainer.  However, he quickly starts receiving threats at his clinic, and his overly curious daughter jumps in to help stop the threats.  Also being investigated by Leigh is the fact that mentioned in the will is a missing/unknown heir that stands to inherit big if he/she comes forward within 5 years.  Leigh sets out to solve the mystery, and stumbles on another dead body in the process.  This is a delightful mystery with many twists.<br />I enjoyed the latest book in the series about Leigh Koslow Harmon.  Most of the time, I can solve the case before I am finished reading the book, but in this case, I was clueless up to the point that Leigh solved the case.  I would recommend reading this book even if you had not read any of the four previous books in the series.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Never Buried\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-25
US	44620071	RXST9I26H8FN	0451182901	280614301	Dr. Nightingale Goes to the Dogs (A Deirdre Quinn Nightingale Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Training Dogs Shouldn't Be Murder!	In the second book in the Dr. Nightingale series, Dr. Didi finds herself investigating another murder.  This time, the murder is a neighbor that owned a beautiful German Shepherd, trained by monks at a monastery.  The search for the killer takes Didi to live with the monks and their perfectly trained Shepherds, leading her to a killer she would never expect!<br />I enjoyed this book much more than I had enjoyed the first book in the series as Dr. Didi was portrayed as much more sympathetic and kind in this book.  I also enjoyed reading about the dogs being trained by the monks, and found this training method fascinating.  Overall, this book was a quick and nice read.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Dr. Nightingale Comes Home\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-22
US	44620071	R2UZA5U84MBBI6	0804113599	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Potted Gardener (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Cheaters Never Prosper!	Agatha Raisin returns in the 3rd book in this series.  In this book, Agatha returns from a lengthy vacation only to find that a beautiful newcomer, Mary Fortune, threatens to snare James Lacey's affections.  It seems that the perfect Ms. Fortune shares James' love of gardening and she plans to enter her property into the local garden show.  Agatha's black thumb does not prevent her from entering the garden show herself, but she soon finds herself having to cheat when all of her seedlings are destroyed in a early frost.  Agatha turns to the help of Roy Silver, P.R. cohort, to replant her garden with fully grown nursery plants.  However, someone in Carsley is destroying all of the neighbor's gardens, and then Ms. Fortune is found \\"planted\\" in a pot...dead.  It is up to Agatha to solve the murder before the murderer plants her too.<br />The Agatha Raisin mysteries are a delight from start to finish!  I loved Agatha's gruff exterior but warm heart.  It is heartening to see a character that has flaws, but that can make you laugh too.  Agatha gets more loveable in each book, and really draws readers into her life.  With both of M.C. Beaton's series (she also writes the Hamish MacBeth series), she makes the reader want to take a trip to the Cotswolds to meet the characters she has so vividly created.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R1KUB0RHQN6ZH7	0804111626	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Vicious Vet (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beauty Is Just Skin Deep!	Agatha Raisin returns in the 2nd book in this cozy mystery series.  Still living in a small village in the Cotswolds of England, Agatha tries to keep herself occupied and to catch James Lacey's attentions.  When a handsome new vet sets up a practice nearby, Agatha finds herself among his many female admirers.  However, when the vet is found dead with a lethal shot meant for a horse, Agatha is the only one who truly believes it was murder.  She sets out to find the murderer, but is too late to save a second victim.  In true Agatha fashion, she stumbles on the murderer, and must save herself in the process.<br />I completely enjoy the Agatha Raisin series and look forward to the antics of Agatha in each new release.  Agatha's sharp tongue, impetuous attitude, and desire to attract a handsome man makes for some hilarious situations.  I laughed out loud several times while reading this book, and found it easy to find the \\"true, lovable\\" Agatha beneath the frosty exterior.  If you enjoy reading cozy mysteries, you need to read this series!<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R34QR56TD2SJI4	0312961863	304124845	Agatha Raisin and the Murderous Marriage (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Marriage Can Be Murder!	Agatha Raisin returns in the 5th book in the series, and is finally going to realize her dream of marrying James Lacey, her next-door neighbor.  However, just before they can say \\"I do\\", her long-lost husband, Jimmy Raisin, returns to stop the wedding.  James is shocked, having thought that Agatha was no longer married, and refuses to speak to her.  However, James and Agatha must team up to find a murderer when Jimmy is found dead and they realize that they are the police's prime suspects.  When each of the people they question ends up dead, it is a race against time to find the identity of the killer before he/she strikes again.<br />I adore this series set in the Cotswolds of England, and I cannot get enough of the character of Agatha Raisin!  She has charmed me from the first book on, and I personally have felt that she was much too good for James Lacey.  It is almost pitiful how Agatha has chased him only to loose him each time...although it is part of the fun of each book to see what antics she will be up to next.  As Agatha grows as a character, I feel she only gets better.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries, start reading this series today.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R2KS2OFK081F5N	0312117388	304306669	Agatha Raisin and the Walkers of Dembley (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Murderer Can't Walk Past Agatha!	In the fourth book in the Agatha Raisin series, our heroine is again put right in the middle of a vicious murder.  Following her return from working for a London P.R. firm, Agatha must help friend Sir Charles Fraith clear his name.  It seems as though the leader of a walkers group has been murdered after being seen arguing with Charles, and Agatha sets out with James to pose as a married couple to infiltrate the village of Dembley.  Of course, Agatha finds herself miserable, and finds that living with James is not the romantic getaway that she had hoped for.<br />This series is one of my favorites and this book shows Agatha at her finest.  Her gruff exterior is no match for her soft heart, and those that truly get to know her see this warm side.  I highly recommend each book in this series, and also the series about Hamish MacBeth, also written by M.C. Beaton.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R3Q7H34TE39UO	0425176746	5662078	The Cat Who... Cookbook: Delicious Meals and Menus Inspired By Lilian Jackson Braun	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The Cat Who...Loved to Eat!	This cookbook is a compilation of recipes from &quot;The Cat Who...&quot; mystery series written by Lilian Jackson Braun.  All of Qwill's favorites are listed (even KoKo's favorites are included) along with a short passage from the book in which the dish appeared.  There are over 200 recipes in the book, and each offers ingredients attainable in most areas.  However, cooks that struggle in the kitchen may find some of the recipes intimidating.  Fans of the series will love taking a walk down memory lane through this book, even if they cannot make all of the dishes.<br />I am a huge fan of Lilian Jackson Braun and was delighted to see that there was a cookbook available for many of the dishes she wrote about in her books.  I found it to be fun to remember the meals that Qwill ate throughout each book, and I especially liked that the authors included passages from the appropriate book with each recipe.  If you are a fan of the series, or if you like to cook, then this is the book for you.  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	RVXEYMS6HB1Z6	0425139492	305320426	The Ghost and Mrs. Jeffries (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries Never Gets Spooked!	The 3rd book in the series. A housekeeper, Mrs. Jeffries, and her staff assist Inspector Witherspoon solve another baffling case for Scotland Yard.<br />At a seance, Mrs. Hodges was taken aback by the medium's dire prediction, but quickly dismissed it as nonsense. That night, Mrs. Hodges was murdered. Inspector Witherspoon is on the case, but unfortunately he doesn't have a crystal ball to tell him whodunit. He does have his housekeeper Mrs. Jeffries and the rest of his staff to help him solve this case. However, Mrs. Jeffries is so good, even he cannot figure out that they are helping him!<br />Another good installment in the series. Highly recommended even if you have never read any of the others. Light, easy read.<br />The first book in this series is &quot;The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries&quot;. Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R11R450KKQHHBK	0425136221	113839442	The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries Leads the Pack!	This is the first book in the Mrs. Jeffries series and introduces us to the household staff of Inspector Witherspoon.  It seems that the Inspector needs just a bit of help in solving his murder cases for Scotland Yard, and Mrs. Jeffries and her staff set out to help him solve his first case.  When a local doctor is poisoned, the Inspector must determined if he was killed by his own cook or if someone is trying to frame her to throw suspicion elsewhere.<br />I enjoyed reading this first book in the series, and enjoyed the relationships between the characters (mainly Mrs. Jeffries and the other members of the household) better than the actual mystery itself.  I thought that Inspector Witherspoon was portrayed as a bit too dumb in this book, but having read several in the series, I have to say that he gains more skills and confidence in his abilities as the series grows.  If you enjoy cozy mysteries, than this Victorian mystery is for you.  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R247V8R9J3BEQO	042513704X	113839442	Mrs. Jeffries Dusts for Clues (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries Does it Again!	This is the 2nd book in the series. On the heals of their first case, Mrs. Jeffries and staff once again set out to help Inspector Witherspoon of Scotland Yard solve a baffling mystery.<br />This case revolves around the disappearance of a servant girl and of a valuable brooch. Fortunately, the brooch is found. Unfortunately, it's found on a murdered woman, but it is not the woman who orginally had the brooch. Where is the servant? Why was the woman murdered? The staff and their many resources team up to help in the Inspector in this cozy mystery.<br />If you have not tried any of the books in this series and you like British cozies, now is the time to start. A lot of the books are hard to find, but may be available at your library if not available here. I recommend these for a light read on a lazy day.<br />The first book in the series is &quot;The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries&quot;. Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R331Q1RU022K78	042518000X	677105451	Nursery Crimes (A Mommy-Track Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Crime on the Mommy Track!	Juliet Applebaum debuts in this &quot;Mommy Track&quot; mystery set in L.A.  Juliet is a former public defender that left her position after the birth of her first daughter and she is quickly finding out that she does not feel as fulfilled being a stay-at-home mom.  Being 8 months pregnant is not helping her nerves any, and when her daughter is denied admittance to an exclusive preschool, Juliet knows she needs to find something to keep her occupied.  Later that evening while watching the news, Juliet is shocked to see that the principle of the preschool was killed by a hit-and-run driver, and Juliet is determined to prove that another denied preschool parent is to blame.  What follows is an amusing jaunt with a very pregnant sleuth, her boisterous toddler, and one killer set on keeping his/her identity secret.<br />I enjoyed this first book in the Mommy Track series and look forward to reading more about these characters.  I found Juliet pretty whiny at times, but had to admit that being 8-months pregnant was not all that easy for me either.  Overall, I thought that it was a light-hearted read, and am anxious to see how Juliet copes with two youngsters in the coming books.  Enjoy!	2003-06-20
US	44620071	R2C21DXSHD92QN	0515110590	541374219	Finishing Touch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fact is Crazier Than Fiction!	British mystery writer, Melissa 'Mel' Craig, returns in the 2nd book in the Melissa Craig mystery series.  This cozy, set in the Cotswolds, shows Melissa trying her hand at teaching creative writing at the local college, becoming romantically involved with one of the other professors there, and becoming entangled in a mystery involving a beautiful woman she met several months earlier.  As the mystery unfolds, Melissa finds herself becoming emotionally involved with several of the murder suspects in the case.  Once again, Melissa helps Inspector Harris solve the murder, but not until another victim falls to the killer.<br />I enjoyed the second book in the series even though I was disappointed that Melissa's son was once again absent from the book.  Hopefully, he will be present in some of the future books in the series.  Overall, this was a great, light read.<br />The first book in the series is \\"A Little Gentle Sleuthing\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-19
US	44620071	R386879O3PMVR5	0804111634	294561434	Agatha Raisin and the Quiche of Death (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Never Cheat With a Killer Quiche!	Agatha Raisin, a sharp-tongued middle aged woman, debuts in this cozy set in the Cotswolds of England.  Agatha, tired of London and the publicity business, sells out and buys a cottage in the village of Carsely.  Wanting desperately to fit in, she enters a baking contest in the village, but resorts to cheating when she enters a store bought quiche instead of her own.  When the judge of the contest dies from eating the quiche, all fingers point to Agatha and she must admit to all that she cheated.  All the while, Agatha becomes more and more curious about the poison found in the murder victim, and wanting to clear her name, Agatha sets out to find the real killer.  Helping her (when everyone else shuns her) are Mrs. Bloxsby, the vicar's wife, and Detective Bill Wong.  Future love-interest, James Lacey, is also introduced in this hilarious romp of a mystery.<br />M.C. Beaton is also the author of the much-loved Hamish McBeth mystery series, and shows her sense of humor in this series.  Agatha's antics are legendary, and at times, I laughed out loud at some of the silly things that she does.  Agatha's low self-esteem (hidden under a rough, blustery exterior) makes you root for her even when she pushes everyone away.  I especially like the scenes in which Agatha tries to make herself appear younger (wearing tons of make-up that runs, high-heeled shoes for a walk, etc.) because she becomes much more human and lovable to the reader.  If you have not read this series and you like cozy mysteries, ask yourself what you are waiting for, and get all of the books in the series!  Then curl up with a cup of tea and enjoy!	2003-06-19
US	44620071	R3M6XEM3VRDIJ3	0451204379	951223302	Never Kissed Goodnight: A Leigh Koslow Mystery (Leigh Koslow Mysteries) (Volume 4)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Relatives Can Be Murder!	In this 4th book in the Leigh Koslow Mystery series, Leigh once again finds herself in the midst of trouble. It all starts when her cousin, Cara, enlists her help in determining what Gil, her straight-laced husband, has been keeping from her. Leigh quickly learns that Cara's absent father is back in town, and tries to solve the mystery of his disappearance prior to Cara's birth. However, with the Koslow/Dublin families silent and with someone trying to blackmail the family, Leigh and Gil must get the answers out of Cara's father before everyone gets hurt. Add to this a kidnapping attempt, Leigh's new marriage to Warren, a political campaign, and a killer out for revenge and you have a typical week in the life of Leigh Koslow Harmon.<br />I enjoyed this latest installment immensely, even though I was initially shocked by Leigh's quick marriage (between books, no less) to Warren Harmon III. So if you are like me and start to panic on page 1 thinking you have missed a book, you have not. Other than that initial shock, I enjoyed the non-stop action in the book and the storyline involving Cara's father. This book is great for a quick read on a long weekend.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Never Buried\\". Enjoy!	2003-06-19
US	44620071	R1AQE1ONV70QXL	0380804743	542948797	Miss Zukas Shelves the Evidence (Miss Zukas Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Miss Zukas Stands Her Ground!	In this 7th book in the Miss Zukas series, Helma meets Chief of Police, Wayne Gallant's, children for the first time.  It seems he wants to take their extremely slow-moving romance to a new level, and Helma is happy to comply.  However, before the shock of meeting Wayne's teenagers has time to wear off, both him and Helma become involved in another murder investigation.  When Chief Gallant gets injured while investigating the case, Helma and his kids must find the killer before anyone else gets hurt.  Adding to the suspense is the fact that a library book is found at the site of Chief Gallant's injuries, and Helma refuses to disclose the library patron who checked out the book.  Will she change her mind and violate her personal ethics to save Wayne and his kids?  Or will she become the target of the killer since she knows too much?<br />This was a great installment in the series about the very practical, dependable librarian.  We start to see a more human side of Helma as she faces choices to help her love interest, Wayne.  I also like the fact that the romance may move forward a bit faster (7 books and not even a smooch!), but not too fast.  If you have not tried this series but enjoy cozy mysteries, you will like this book, even if you have read none of the previous books in the series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"Miss Zukas and the Library Murders\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-16
US	44620071	ROSYQ0ZA0UCBL	0312964919	919656338	Biggie and the Mangled Mortician (Biggie Weatherford)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Murder of a Mortician....	The little town of Job's Crossing is abuzzin with the return adventure of Texas grandma Biggie and her narrating grandson, 12-year-old J.R. There are plans for the upcoming operetta; a monster is roaming the cemetery; and a new mortician has come to town. When the extremely ugly Monk Carter arrives to take up the local funeral home's business, Miss Itha, local hair stylist, takes one look at him and faints dead away. Then, Monk is found dead under mysteries circumstances. Soon several people draw Biggie's attention as suspects: Miss Itha, who has disappeared with her son, DeWayne; and the new preacher, who has been romancing a local girl.  Biggie and J.R. set out to solve the mysterious murder while also trying to find the \\"Wooten Creek\\" monster.<br />This is the 2nd book in the Biggie series.  There were several very funny scenes in this book but I felt some aspects of the book lacked flow and direction.  There were also several items mentioned in this book that were never explained (was Cooter's lottery ticket worth anything?) that I hope are reexamined in later books.  However, I enjoyed the characters and I will definately continue to read the other books in the series.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Biggie and the Poisoned Politican\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-13
US	44620071	R276IJIIYB2LHD	0743458117	859537711	Alpine for You: A Passport to Peril Mystery (Passport to Peril Mysteries)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Laugh Out Loud Fun!	This is the first book in the Passport to Peril Mysteries.  This story is about the tour from hell to Switzerland, as taken by Emily and her grandmother.  Did I mention that included on this trip is a group of Nana's friends....senior citizens from Iowa?  Everything that can go wrong does, and Emily finds herself overboard swimming to catch up to a floating artifical limb in one scene.  Overall, there are just too many hilarious scenes in this book to describe them all but they do not disappoint!<br />Secondary to the action (at least in my opinion) is the mystery of a fallen fellow traveler that, of course, Emily solves.  I would compare this book to Janet Evanovich for humor and for the slapstick-type situations that both Stephanie Plum and Emily find themselves in.<br />As of this writing, the second book in the series, Top O the Morning, is due to be released in September of 2003.  Enjoy!	2003-06-09
US	44620071	RDZYRMD88FA3I	0312142854	543530280	Biggie and the Poisoned Politician	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Biggie Starts with a Biggie	The first book in the Biggie series starts with a bang.  A car belonging Biggie's boarder explodes, the mayor dies after a town meeting, and Biggie has to deal with someone trying to put a landfill on her property.  The story is told in the narrative of Biggie's 12-year-old grandson, J.R., and makes you laugh out loud at times.<br />This is a good mystery, but I enjoyed it better for the strength of the characters, the setting, and the relationship between Biggie and J.R.  A fun, easy read for a hot summer day.  Enjoy!	2003-06-09
US	44620071	R1OEV2IOIMIM3G	1557735506	545983941	Paws Before Dying	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Cousin Leah Comes to Town	Holly Winter is at it again in the 4th book in the Dog Lover's Mystery series.  Holly's cousin (or niece as she is sometimes called) comes to visit her for the summer, and takes over the training and trials of Kimi, the female Malamute.  During her visit, a well-known retired teacher and fellow dog trial competitor gets electrocuted while working her poodle at night.  At first it appears to be an accident, but when Holly starts digging, she learns that a lot of people had reasons to want this competitor out of the ring.  Most of the characters (Steve, Rita, and Kevin in a very small part of the action) have returned but dearly missing in this book is Buck, Holly's father.<br />Overall, this book was a great addition to the series.  Sometimes the book gets a bit too cerebral (especially in the dialogue with Kevin) but it is still a great read.  The author chooses this book to take a stand on electronic collars (a.k.a shock collars), as she has with other topics in previous books.  I would recommend this book as a part of the series.<br />The first book in this series is \\"A New Leash on Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-09
US	44620071	R8IUG8XZTJJPY	0965944557	575842623	Parenting, SportsMom Style: Real-Life Solutions for Surviving the Youth Sports Scene	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sports Reference for Beginning Sports Parents	As a mother of a 9-year-old hockey player/fanatic, I picked up this book for the nutrition section for athletes.  I enjoyed the easy-to-read style of the book, but felt that it was a better book for beginner athletes and their parents.<br />Being a parent means that we have to help our children make good choices in every area of their lives.  This book covers the portion involved in the youth sports arena that can get very competitive and overrated.  It gives hints for all age levels and offers very good advice for busy parents.  Overall, I felt that this was a great book for parents entering into the sports scene.  Other parents that have been involved with sports for many years will enjoy the book but will need to look elsewhere for more detail on their particular sport(s) of choice.<br />A fun, easy read.  Enjoy!	2003-06-09
US	44620071	R2M81AYVIJSHDU	0312978863	196861741	Murder with Puffins (Meg Langslow Mysteries)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Murder Most Fowl	Meg and new boyfriend Michael are trying to have a romantic getaway in the 2nd book of this series.  What goes wrong?  Well, first they get seasick, end up in the middle of a hurricane, get stranded on their island destination with Meg's family, and then stumble upon a corpse.  In true Meg fashion, everything that can go wrong does go wrong.<br />This book was funny and contained a large list of zany characters.  Like the first book in the series, there are many, many suspects and Meg's dad appears to be the lead suspect.  Also like the first book, I felt that there was too much information and too many suspects to sift through them all.  I liked the comedy, but I hope in future books Meg's dad is featured more as a help to solving the case rather than a suspect.<br />This book (and series) are great for a vacation read or a long day at the beach.<br />The first book in the series is \\"Murder with Peacocks\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-09
US	44620071	R1US5IKOAQPA01	999210354X	911019608	The J. Alfred Prufrock Murders	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Don't Let the Title Keep You Away!	This title was on my list of books to read for a long time before I ever got around to reading it. However, now that I have read it, I am sorry that I waited so long! Don't let the title keep you from reading this book.<br /><br />The residents of a retirement community (not a nursing home!) have a murderer in their midst. No one really liked \\"Sweetie\\" but everyone agrees that there was no reason to kill her! Friends Caledonia and Angela mastermind the search to find the killer, and get themselves into a few precarious situations as a result. This book shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!).<br /><br />I love this series!  This was a delightful look at a feisty group of retirement residents that work together to help the police solve a murder. The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was a great introduction to them. Great for all ages!<br /><br />The next book in the series is called \\"Murder in Gray and White\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	RVD6L2HUBTZ74	0449219658	933127122	Murder in Gray and White	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A lively read!	The 2nd book in the \\"retirement\\" series. Two residents of a retirement community (not a nursing home!) work together with their friends and the police to solve another murder in their small community.<br />Friends Caledonia and Angela are featured more in this follow-up to \\"The J Alfred Prufrock Murders\\" and are assigned small tasks by the police to keep them out of the way. However, during their search, they once again put themselves in grave danger. While trying to solve the mystery, Angela and Caledonia also work hard to dry out an alcoholic in their midst for what they claim is his best interest. However, little do they know that he prefers to live out his final years in an alcoholic stupor.<br />This series shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!). The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was another look at these delightful \\"people\\". Great for all ages! Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R38K4ZMZ3KD5HQ	0425142825	838792310	Mrs. Jeffries Takes Stock (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries and the Thrify Inspector Solve Another!	The 4th book in the Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries series.  Scotland Yard has assigned yet another baffling mystery to the Inspector and it is up to Mrs. Jeffries and her household staff to assist him with this case.  The latest murder victim is shown to have possibly cheated shareholders out of a large sum of money and all of them are suspects.  However, no one is really telling the truth about the night of the murder.  Add to this, the Inspector has determined that he should cut his household expenses, and his staff must cut corners while trying to solve this mystery.<br />Once again, I found the characters delightful.  I especially liked this book in the series due to the financial constraints that the Inspector puts on his household and the resulting \\"growling stomach\\" that he has throughout the case.  It is amusing to see some of the dishes that the cook serves him to save money, and how miserable the poor man becomes.  This series is written in the cozy style and moves quickly.  I consider this a great read on a lazy, rainy afternoon.<br />The first book in this series is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R2R2B364V2BIZV	0802757812	469733782	A Little Gentle Sleuthing	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Murder in the Cotswolds!	A successful mystery writer moves to the Cotswolds to get out of the bustle of London. Little does she know that this will put her in the middle of a real life murder mystery that she helps to solve. With the help of her quirky neighbor, Melissa stumbles on some secrets that others want to stay hidden and onto the identity of the real killer.<br />This was a great start to the series. I enjoyed watching Melissa gain her independence from an ex-lover and learning how to do things for herself. The neighbor was a delight with her vegetarian (but not preachy), healthy lifestyle, and the next books in the series promise to show more of these great characters. Great, light reading. Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R2Q9RNLI1JRWRD	1557734259	886077644	Dead and Doggone; Dog Trainer Mystery, No. 2	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Not Tested on Animals!	Holly Winter returns in the 2nd book in the Dog Lover's Mysteries.  Holly writes articles for A Dog's Life, trains at the local obedience club, shows her dog in obedience, and works to find the dognappers of her dog and her father's wolf.  Her Malamute, Rowdy, plays a starring role in this book that takes a strong look at testing on animals.<br />I was not the same after reading this book.  I have to admit that after reading it, I started looking more closely at the labels on packaging that say \\"Not Tested on Animals\\".  This was not a preachy book, but brought to light some shocking things done to animals at some testing facilities.  I consider myself an animal lover and was haunted by this book after reading it.  Not exactly a lighthearted read, but it was worth it.  The first book in this series is \\"A New Leash on Death\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R36S2JY6Q2FBVJ	0449217434	130139375	The J. Alfred Prufrock Murders	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Don't Let the Title Fool You!	This title was on my list of books to read for a long time before I ever got around to reading it.  However, now that I have read it, I am sorry that I waited so long!  Don't let the title keep you from reading this book.<br />The residents of a retirement community (not a nursing home!) have a murderer in their midst.  No one really liked \\"Sweetie\\" but everyone agrees that there was no reason to kill her!  Friends Caledonia and Angela mastermind the search to find the killer, and get themselves into a few precarious situations as a result.  This book shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!).<br />This was a delightful look at a feisty group of retirement residents that work together to help the police solve a murder.  The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was a great introduction to them.  Great for all ages!  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R1E67GULLM3AAZ	0449221717	345528973	Murder By Owl Light	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Retired, Not Dead!	The 3rd book in the series about residents in a California retirement community. For seniors Angela and Caledonia, the murder of the gardener at posh Camden-sur-Mer is a delightful break in their routine!<br />The residents of a retirement community (not a nursing home!) have a murderer in their midst. Two murders happen quite closely together and no one sees a connection until a third happens.  Angela is actually the one that helps the police find the connection and puts herself in danger with the real killer.  This book's ending was a bit of a surprise and was genius the way it was put together.<br />This book shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!). This was a delightful look at a feisty group of retirement residents that work together to help the police solve a murder. The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was a great addition to the first two. Great for all ages! The first book in this series is \\"The J Alfred Prufrock Murders\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R13LNYNG0XF7YS	9994590030	836732793	Mrs. Jeffries Dusts for Clues	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries Does it Again!	This is the 2nd book in the series.  On the heals of their first case, Mrs. Jeffries and staff once again set out to help Inspector Witherspoon of Scotland Yard solve a baffling mystery.<br />This case revolves around the disappearance of a servant girl and of a valuable brooch. Fortunately, the brooch is found. Unfortunately, it's found on a murdered woman, but it is not the woman who orginally had the brooch. Where is the servant?  Why was the woman murdered?  The staff and their many resources team up to help in the Inspector in this cozy mystery.<br />If you have not tried any of the books in this series and you like British cozies, now is the time to start.  A lot of the books are hard to find, but may be available at your library if not available here.  I recommend these for a light read on a lazy day.<br />The first book in the series is &quot;The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries&quot;.  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R30RADU1X3SKUT	1556111533	532932141	Murder in Gray and White (Benbow/Wingate Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A lively read!	The 2nd book in the \\"retirement\\" series.  Two residents of a retirement community (not a nursing home!) work together with their friends and the police to solve another murder in their small community.<br />Friends Caledonia and Angela are featured more in this follow-up to \\"The J Alfred Prufrock Murders\\" and are assigned small tasks by the police to keep them out of the way.  However, during their search, they once again put themselves in grave danger.  While trying to solve the mystery, Angela and Caledonia also work hard to dry out an alcoholic in their midst for what they claim is his best interest.  However, little do they know that he prefers to live out his final years in an alcoholic stupor.<br />This series shows that retirement does not mean \\"out to pasture\\" and shows how valuable the elderly are (to those that, unfortunately, need a reminder!).  The characters grow with each book in the series and this book was another look at these delightful \\"people\\".  Great for all ages!  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R1M0URIP0NCW2	042514691X	844366848	Mrs. Jeffries on the Trail (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries Does it Again!	Mrs. Jeffries and the household staff help Inspector Witherspoon solve another case involving the murder of a flower seller that just happens to be the illegitimate daughter of a very weathly, yet lonely man.<br /><br />This is the 6th book in the Mrs. Jeffries series and did not disappoint.  The characters are richly drawn and the setting makes you feel as though you are enveloped by the fog.  This is definately a cozy style mystery, and was not very difficult to determine who the murderer was.  However, the series is definately worth a try as the characters grow and the relationships between them are strengthened with each book.<br /><br />The first book in the series is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffies\\" and worth a read.  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R9O82MOX29PR2	9995193795	1803044	The Ghost and Mrs. Jeffries	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries and the Ghost	The 3rd book in the series.  A housekeeper, Mrs. Jeffries, and her staff assist Inspector Witherspoon solve another baffling case for Scotland Yard.<br />At a seance, Mrs. Hodges was taken aback by the medium's dire prediction, but quickly dismissed it as nonsense. That night, Mrs. Hodges was murdered. Inspector Witherspoon is on the case, but unfortunately he doesn't have a crystal ball to tell him whodunit. He does have his housekeeper Mrs. Jeffries and the rest of his staff to help him solve this case.  However, Mrs. Jeffries is so good, even he cannot figure out that they are helping him!<br />Another good installment in the series.  Highly recommended even if you have never read any of the others.  Light, easy read.<br />The first book in this series is &quot;The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries&quot;.  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
US	44620071	R2HXI68L9VJDZ4	0425144917	701220021	Mrs. Jeffries on the Ball (Victorian Mystery)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Mrs. Jeffries and Staff Do Not Disappoint!	Mrs. Jeffries and the household staff team up again to assist Inspector Witherspoon and Scotland Yard solve a baffling case.  The Queen's Ball turns into a fatal affair and the staff must help the Inspector solve the mystery before another murder occurs.<br />This is the 5th book in the series.  Each book adds strength to the characters and deepens the relationships between each of them.  A love interest for the Inspector is introduced in this book (however slow-moving that is) and Smythe is shown to have a mystery of his own.  I enjoy the fact that there is a developing storyline within this series that grows with each book.  However, it would still be possible to pick up any book in the series and not be confused by the subplots.<br />If you want to start the series at the beginning, the first is \\"The Inspector and Mrs. Jeffries\\".  Enjoy!	2003-06-05
