US	44731169	R2LYIE2PICTA1H	0708914772	460873101	The Distant Hills (U)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Australian  "Marriage of Convenience"  Romance	\\"The Distant Hills\\" was first published in 1962.  It has gone through many subsequent reprints due to the author's writing talent, and the timeless, universal love story set in Australia. <br /> <br />Upon their mother's death, 18-year-old Angela Burns travels to Australia, with her 13-year-old sister Nellie.  They are to live with a friend of their mother's.  Upon their arrival in Australia, they find she has died.  Angela, looking out for her younger sister's welfare, immediately gets a job.  Unknown to Angela, Nellie has been spreading rumors that Angela has come to marry the rich cattle station owner, Gilbert Lawrence.  Gilbert insists on marrying Angela to preserve his reputation, but only as a \\"marriage of convenience.\\"  We continually admire both Angela and Giles privately, and root for both of them to get together.  There is also a beautiful and rich, but conniving neighbor, who attempts to break up the couple before they can work out the mutual misunderstandings about what type of person the other one truly is.  As in all romances, things work out happily in the end, and very satisfactorily. <br /> <br />Having read hundreds of romance novels,  I found \\"The Distant Hills\\" to be one of the best romances I have ever read.  Having read this book at least twice before, in past years, I still could not put down the book reading a third or fourth time!  Unlike many romance novels, where the reader feels like, \\"why don't they just TALK to each other, and everything would be resolved,\\" the characters in this book DO talk to each other.  But the writing is strong, and OTHER characters create the misunderstandings between the two main characters, making good reasons for them to behave as they do.  Both the main characters are people we highly admire,  and that is what makes the end so satisfying when they finally do get together. <br /> <br />I now intend to search out all the other books of Lucy Walker I can find (who I understand is the \\"romance queen\\" of Australia, according to one internet site).  Do not hesitate to get this book.  You will definitely enjoy both the story, and the authentic life in Australia.  This author was born in the West Australian desert, and grew up living on sheep stations.	2005-07-23
US	44731169	R35K313EX7PIQS	0060580674	65418970	Sandstorm (Sigma Force)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	High Adventure, Science, and Romantic Tension	If you are a fan of  Dan Brown's books (Da Vinci Code author), you will love James Rollins' books!   In a similar style, in \\"Sandstorm,\\" Rollins rolls exotic locations, high adventure, romantic tension, science, and a touch of religious history involving modern-day guardians into a spy thriller starring government agents, physicists, a businesswoman, and an archeologist.   All the action takes place, minute-to-minute, over just a few days.  I really enjoyed this book, and had great trouble putting it down, at each sitting!  I finished it in three days. <br /> <br />\\"Sandstorm\\" begins with an explosion in the British Museum, which sets the action in motion among different factions.  Some are searching for the ancient lost city of Ubar, on the Arabian peninsula, while government/terrorist factions are searching for the source of the antimatter which caused the explosion.  The action takes us from the United States, into the Arabian peninsula, where two-thirds of the book takes place.  All of the action is infused with tension between the woman archeologist, and the two heroes-both of whom we are rooting for at the same time.  I was kept on the edge of my seat, wondering until the end which man she would choose!   <br /> <br />Fact and fiction are well-mixed in this tale.  Upon finishing the book, I could hardly wait to check out all these things and places mentioned in the book on the internet.  Then I got to the last page, and found a two-page \\"Author's Note\\" section.  In a few paragraphs, Rollins informs us about the latest research in antimatter, and of the historical basis for the lost city of Ubar, as well as about the actual tombs of Nabi Imran (the Virgin Mary's father) and Ayoub (Job).  He gives us good sources about all of the above to follow up on, if we are interested.  He also informs us at this point about a few things in the book which are fiction.  I really appreciated this section. <br /> <br />\\"Sandstorm\\" is the first of Rollins' books that I decidedto try.  I am so delighted with this author that I now intend to go out and buy, in one fell swoop, EVERY book that he has published!	2005-07-20
US	44731169	R1QW0WFT5V8ZL8	0440409942	83736470	Harris and Me	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Boys Looking for "Kicks" on 1949 Rural Farm	<br />This is a story about an 11-year-old boy, son of an alcoholic too ill to care for him, who is sent off by social services to some cousins he has never met, to spend one summer in the late 1940's.  He meets a cousin close to his own age, who drags him into every kind of trouble imaginable.  We experience severe \\"culture shock\\" along with the main character, a city boy, who is thrown into a situation far out his depth.  He manages to survive a number of harrowing incidents, become pretty comptetent, and later, even looks back fondly on his summer at the farm.   <br /> <br />This book was well-written, but did not appeal to me personally as much as Paulsen's other books.  It was NOT a page-turner, as his other books are.  It is a slow-paced experience of what boys can think up to do for \\"kicks\\" when there is no TV, radio, computer, or other type of modern diversion.  I have no doubt Paulsen is writing out of personal experience, and really knows what he is talking about.  I never would have thought of any of these diversions in a million years.  I am a teacher, and I would only recommend this novel to boys and girls who don't mind very slow-paced realistic stories, and who are particularly interested in old-fashioned farm life, or old-fashioned rural life. <br /> <br />If you are not familiar with this author, I highly recommend you read some of his other books, most of which are REAL page turners, generally about boys coming of age, and finding competence in themselves, no matter where the setting.	2004-12-20
US	44731169	R1UILYSNS7ZPZF	076534243X	179382884	The Dark Side of Nowhere	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fantastic Alien Adventure in Boy's Own Home and Neighborhood	This is a clever science-fiction novel, full of double-entrendres,  about a 14-year-old boy who finds out the the true value of his friends and family members.  The plot starts out a little slow, due to the main character's feeling about how BORING and ORDINARY his life is.  Then, one day, everything changes.  He finds out that he is really part of a group in the town of aliens, who have to take monthly shots (which he had previously thought were allergy shots) to maintain their human image.  Jason and his friends are the children of an advance force sent before a planetary invasion of the Earth.  As they undergo a process that turns them back into their \\"natural\\" forms, Jason wonders about his girlfriend, who is a normal human, and part of this group.  He has to lie to her repeatedly, and finds that it gets easier and easier.  But at a certain point, the realization of what he is doing wakes him up, and he decides to go against the alien group.  He later comes to find that his parents also, were secretly sabotaging the alien group. <br /> <br />I am a teacher, and HIGHLY recommend this book.  I am not surprised to see that it has won a number of awards.  Neal Shusterman is a VERY entertaining writer.  His use of language contains a lot of double meanings which are quite funny.  I would only recommend this book to younger readers with an extremely good vocabulary, or a lot of the meaning will go over their heads.  This book would be of interest to anyone between grades 6-12, who is interested in science fiction, aliens, or how a boy's boring life could suddenly change.  In addition, it would be of great interest to any kids who are anti-authority, or like to look for \\"kicks,\\" as this is the character's prevailing attitude during the first two-thirds of the book.  Extremely entertaining, yet teahces a good moral lesson, and kept me thinking about it for several days afterward. <br />	2004-12-15
US	44731169	R3HRB2B1CYTKYZ	0312152175	82922075	Surfing the Himalayas: A Spiritual Adventure	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	OK, But Disappointing	In 1990, I spent two months in Nepal and Tibet, and visted numerous monasteries.  I have also been an amateur student of Buddism, on-and-off, for a number of years.  This book looked interesting, but I was disappointed. <br /> <br />I have to agree with many of the comments of reviewer David Yeh, on the American Amazon site, whom I quote:  \\"  '...Master Fwap told me that most people who have been enlightened in their previous incarnations would normally begin to regain their past-life enlightenment-if they lived at sea level-at around the age of twenty-nine, when their astrological Saturn return took place. He said that living in or near sacred mountains, because of their beneficial auric influences, often made past-life returns happen even faster.' What?! Sea level? Saturn return? Auric influences? I'm not close-minded, but Lenz makes little attempt to make believers out of non-believers, he throws out jargon like this with impunity.\\" <br /> <br />I did find some aspects of the book interesting, but I thought it got really bogged down, and it was hard for meto persevere to the end.  Having done so, I felt disappointed.  There wasn't any payoff for me. <br /> <br />	2004-12-15
US	44731169	R3F9SSUGIYC55E	0679425705	764460144	Reunions: Visionary Encounters with Departed Loved Ones	Books	5	76	78	N	Y	Surprisingly Informative!	I bought this book sight unseen, on the strength of one of Raymond Moody's previous books that I had read and loved, many years ago, Life After Life.  I was hoping for more of the same, and was quite surprised to find that this book is not at all about reincarnation, but about mirror-gazing.  This was not something I was initially interested in, but having liked his previous book so much, and having paid for this  book, I decided to persevere.  I'm glad I did.  It was a very worthwhile read. <br /> <br />Being new to this subject, I knew absolutely nothing about it before.  More than half of the book is devoted to the HISTORY of mirror gazing in various cultures, throughout time.  I didn't even know that there had been a history.  One of the most fascinating parts was reading all about the ancient Greek oracles, and how they had worked.  I had heard of the Oracles, but previously just imagined they had some kind of fortune-teller.  Actually, it was quite complicated.  People consulting the Oracles had to undergo a month of preparation, in near total darkness.  Then there was a huge, underground metal mirror that they were taken to consult, in which they then had visions.  Moody and his wife visited the remains of one of the Oracles, and he describes his trip there, and how he was able to find all the various parts of the oracle chambers.   <br /> <br />Moody describes how mirror gazing was a well-accepted diversion during the Middle Ages, and before, in almost every culture, and how it went out with the rise of science, especially after 1900.  Even the American Indians had a form of mirror gazing which they practiced.  Different cultures had different ways of gazing to try to conjure spirits, including looking into water, looking at shiny silver cups or mugs, and gazing into crystal balls (mentioned only briefly).   <br /> <br />The most fascinating historical information was a description of how the Xhosa (pronounded Khosa) people of South Africa, in 1856, after fighting many unsuccessful battles with the British, gazed into the river, and saw the spiritis of six dead ancestors.  These ancestors convinced the whole tribe that if they would sacrifice all of their cattle to the ancestors, that the ancestors would come back to life, and lead them to a victory over the British.  I asked someone I know from South Africa if they had ever heard of this, and they had not, but they suggested to me that I check on the internet.  I did, and found MANY references to The Great Cattle Killing of 1856-1857, in which because of the visions seen in the river, they killed ALL of their cattle, AND did not plant their crops.  Apparently, the British even tried to stop them.  However, they didn't listen, and the subsequent year, 20,000 Xhosa starved to death. <br /> <br />After aquainting the reader with the complete history of mirror gazing, Moody tries to research the practice scientifically.  He builds a chamber in which to mirror gaze, following the same methods he has researched from historical cultures.  He chooses a number of people, who fit certain criteria-such as being professional, well-balanced, no belief in metaphysics, and lastly, having a relative or friend who has died that they would like to see again, if it were possible.  He then has them follow a preparation procedure similar to what the ancients did-although he devised his chamber and preparation from a melange of historical research, synthesizing his own ritual to experiment with.  Before he started, he was expecting a very low success ratio, if any success at all.  To his surprise, about 50 percent of the subjects reported communication.  A number of interesting case histories are included in the book. <br /> <br />Lastly, he gives the reader good directions, and suggestions, as to how they can pursue mirror gazing, if they are interested in trying it on their own. <br /> <br />I would not recommend this book to the average reader.  However, if you are interested in mirror-gazing, or a person of a very open scientific mind, this book will interest you.  I think Moody has done a careful, scientific study, and presented his findings. <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-12-15
US	44731169	R3DGJE9REI66Y0	0689827008	906324603	Dogsong	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Realistic Story about a  Modern-Day Eskimo Boy	This is a realistic story set in the far north, both in an Eskimo village, and in the wild tundra.  The story is about an Eskimo boy who has a vague sense of discontent.  His father recommends that he go visit with an old Eskimo man, who is steeped in the \\"old\\" ways.  Russel, the boy, ends up living with the old Eskimo man, learning the old ways, and dropping out of school.  No one seems to mind because he is still learning valuable things.  Eventually, the old man goes out on the ice to die, but first tells Russel to head to the Far North for about one year, to \\"find himself.\\"  He is alone most of that time, but toward the end, meets up with an Eskimo girl, who he saves.  The book implies that in the future, she will be his wife.  This is a coming-of-age story dealing with a boy's feelings about becoming competent as a man, and having confidence in his own abilities. <br /> <br />This author is well-aquainted with both modern and traditional Eskimo life, and really shows the reader both how it is now, and how it used to be.  I am a teacher, and I recommend this book for anyone interested in Eskimo life, realistic stories of boy-against nature, or hunting and fishing activities.  The boy's thoughts and feelings would make the book mostly of interest to age 12, to adult.  Parts of this book reminded me of the book I read in 8th grade, back in the late 60's, entitled, \\"Nanook of the North,\\" (now apparently out of print) except that Nanook was an adult, and this story is about a teenaged boy. <br /> <br />	2004-12-12
US	44731169	R2KYXHHFGXIQGZ	0385303882	14133693	The River (A Hatchet Adventure)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Boy-Against-Nature Survival Story	I am a teacher who feels this is an excellent book.  I had never heard the first book in this series, The Hatchet, before reading this book.  If this is the only book available to you, there is absolutely no problem with starting here, as the essentials from the previous book are mentioned here for the reader. <br /> <br />This is a great book about a boy coming of age, by coming to rely on himself.  Having recovered from a plane crash and survival in the wilderness, he is asked to do it all again, for the sake of survival training experts.  All goes well at first until the adult with him is hit by lightning and goes into a coma.  He uses all his skills to deal with the new emergency situation, in which is responsible not only for himself, but for another, as well. <br /> <br />I recommend this book for mature sixth-grade readers, and on up to adult.  It was such an enjoyable book that I read it in a single sitting, of about two hours.	2004-12-12
US	44731169	R11UHND0AJVUKA	0613229487	609656369	The Transall Saga (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Highly Recommended by Middle School Teacher	I am a teacher, and try to read most books that we have in our school library for children and teens.  I'd have to characterize this story as a man-against-nature adventure-fantasy science-fiction coming-of-age novel.  It was one of the best books I've read this year.  The book is a real page-turner.  I couldn't put it down, and read the whole thing in a day (I'm a fast reader). <br /> <br />It is the story of a young teen-aged boy who gets transported into another world, which we later find out is actually the Earth, in a future time.  He first has to learn how to survive on the new planet, and then he eventually comes in contact with several new groups of people, who are all at war with each other.  He survives slavery, to become free, and a warrior, while all the time searching for the blue light that will take him home.  After a number of years, he gives up, deciding to make his life in the new world.  Unfortunately, the ruler of that world, who also came from Mark's time, is his deadly enemy.  This is a fascinating book with a little of something for everyone--and also manages to have nothing inappropriate for children or teens.  I recommend this book for mature 11-year-olds, all the way up to adult.  I loved it myself!	2004-12-10
US	44731169	RTFFE8YOLD71M	0684801280	168753818	Driven to Distraction: Recognizing and Coping with Attention Deficit Disorder from Childhood Through Adulthood	Books	5	15	18	N	N	A  REALLY  COMPLETE Book on ADD!!!	I was so glad to have found this book, written by a doctor, who himself, has ADD.  Not only does he explain it really well, but he goes through all of the possible other diagnoses that can be confused, or mixed up with, ADD.  He discusses all medical AND non-medical strategies to treat ADD, and winds up with the precise information to gather together before going to a doctor, to make your visit more productive.  The writing style is comfortable, and easy to read, with many true-life examples of various people.   <br /> <br />I have a daughter who I am now sure has ADD, and NOW I finally know how to go about helping her! If you, or anyone in your family, has ADD, or even SUSPECT that they do, this is DEFINITELY the book for you.  I cannot imagine that there is any better, or more complete, book out there on this problem.	2004-09-01
US	44731169	R3AZ38USLMEQCS	0312971397	896256339	Cuba: A Jake Grafton Novel (Jake Grafton Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Characters--Great Setting	I'm an American woman teacher living overseas, and this is the first Stephen Coonts novel that I've read.  I liked it.  I enjoy thrillers in foreign settings, and this one did not disappoint me. <br /> <br />I had recently read some other novels, by another author, dealing with Cuba, and Cuban Americans livng in Miami, which is what drew me to this book.  Knowing from those books about the constant speculation, in the Cuban-American community, of what will happen when Fidel dies, I read this novel with great interest!  I thought he wove a fantastic tale around this idea.  I liked the personalities given to the Cuban characters in the book. <br /> <br />I also enjoyed some of the military aspects of the book, and the discussion of WHY we (and other countries) are \\"armed to the teeth.\\" <br /> <br />I would definitely be willing to read more books by this author.	2004-08-30
US	44731169	R119X1S7VEXTM4	0898797675	917965508	Writing the Private Eye Novel: A Handbook by the Private Eye Writers of America	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A Great General Book, Geared to the Mystery Writer	I am really sorry to see that this book is now about to be out of print, has limited availability in the U.S.!  Luckily, it can still be obtained used through Amazon and many other booksellers. <br /> <br />I am starting a mystery, and found this book full of good advice.  What it is not full of, however, is \\"nuts and bolts\\" type of advice.  It is full of \\"general\\" advice from various mystery writers. <br /> <br />A number of writers talk about the importance of planning a writing a whole series, if you are just starting out.  Many of them mention the importance of reading a lot in the genre.  The technique of outlining three or four books mystery books that YOU like (by summarizing each chapter in three or four sentences) will teach you a lot about how to put together a mystery.   <br /> <br />The other contributors each have something unique to say.  The book is broken into eight chapters, as follows, with two-to-five author contributors of articles for each chapter:  Getting Started, Plot and Structure, Creativity, Character, Setting, Writing the PI Short Story, Stretching the Boundaries, and From the Editor's Desk.  Personally, I found one article on Trans-Gender Writing in the book to be particularly helpful.   <br /> <br />This is a great general book, geared to the mystery writer.	2004-08-30
US	44731169	R1P0N1HV2A2UUD	0061044431	486404326	The Salaryman's Wife	Books	4	2	5	N	Y	Explores Feelings of a Japanese-American in Japan	I really enjoyed this book, but I never did warm to the main character.   <br /> <br />I loved the fact that it was set in Japan, and I learned a lot about Japanese culture, and about how the Japanese think.  This was actually the main reason I bought the book, as I enjoy novels set in foreign cultures.  This author appears to be Japanese-American herself, and did an excellent job of showing the two cultures, and how a mixed person living in Japan would feel, and be treated. <br /> <br />The only reason I am rating the book four stars is that I didn't like Rei (although I did like her adventures). <br /> <br />	2004-08-30
US	44731169	R3EGHIH06DVGUP	0743411463	538304275	The Cuckoo's Egg: Tracking a Spy Through the Maze of Computer Espionage	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wow!!!   I Couldn't Put it Down!!!	I recently bought this book in a small English-language bookstore in Casablanca, Morocco, where it was erroneously filed under \\"fiction.\\"  I began reading it, and then realized it was a TRUE story!  I literally could not put it down.   <br /> <br />Cliff Stoll, an astronomer, writes well for the layman, explaining complicated computer terminology so that we can understand everything he is doing to catch a cyberpunk from Germany (he eventually finds out), who is breaking into his company's private computers. <br /> <br />This chase consumes his life for more than a year.  We are led through every part, problem, and frustration of the chase.  Meanwhile, we see the ups and downs of Cliff's private life, which I am glad to say, has a happy ending as well. <br /> <br />This is one of the most fascinating true accounts I have ever read, and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys thrillers, true stories, biographies, science, or computers.	2004-08-30
US	44731169	R21RVWCRLJ1P0I	0887295231	20306231	Insight Guide Morocco (Insight Guides)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent, But Travelers Need a Second Book, Too	I am an American who has lived in Marrakesh, Morocco for the past 13 years.  I buy every new Moroccan guide book, written in English, that I see (just out of curiosity, to see what's new, or updated). <br /> <br />This book immediately grabbed my attention, when I saw it for sale in Marrakesh.  It has the BEST pictures of any guidebook that exists on Morocco, and it has LOTS of pictures.  It also has the BEST history section I have seen in any of the Moroccan guide books.  Most of the guide books' history sections absolutely put you to sleep, and make the history so complicated it is really hard to follow.  After 13 years, I was SO pleased to read the history section, and have it make Moroccan history COME ALIVE (I am also a history teacher by profession), and read CLEARLY, in a non-confusing manner. <br /> <br />The rest of the book is packed with interesting, and useful, information about Moroccan culture, customs, society, and places. <br /> <br />The major weakness of this guide book, and the reason for which I am rating it only four stars, is that I don't think it gives ENOUGH information for a traveler to rely on as the ONLY book for his trip.  There is not enough information about each major town in terms of how to find hotels, or restaurants of various prices.  Also, there is far too little information on the Western Sahara, if you are planning to visit there (not that I know of a guide book yet that IS sufficient in this regard). If you buy this guide book, you will definitely find some information in here which is not in other guidebooks, and it is a worthwhile purchase just for the pictures, alone.  I agree with the other reviewer that it should be supplemented with the Lonely Planet (my first choice), or the Rough Guide (my second choice).	2004-08-17
US	44731169	R1675DINUP9N8L	1902636163	387515496	My Descent Into Death	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Validates the MESSAGE of All Other Near Death Experiences	<br />I heard of this book only recently, and was glad to find it still in print.  I read the whole thing in one day.  I am not a strong Christian, but did know in advance that this book (particularly the second half) was written from a strongly Christian perspective.  However, I did not find this a turn-off, and I can recommend this book to others of ANY religion, including atheists, as was Storm, before his experience.   <br /> <br />The important message from this book was that God DOES exist, and that we ARE here for a REASON.  That reason is to learn to LOVE one another, which was the message of Jesus, and the message of every major religion.  Storm points out that the same truths are in every religion, and even that the idea of God has been given to beings on every planet where there is intelligent life.  But it is up to each individual to accept or reject God, here, or on any other planet.   <br /> <br />I did not find a lot of totally new ideas in this book, having read several other books on near death experiences.  But I did really enjoy reading about Storm's experience, and seeing that the message of his book conforms closely to the message of others' near-death experiences, from multiple cultures.  It is an interesting read, and I  HIGHLY recommend it to EVERYONE. <br />	2004-08-07
US	44731169	R2JQ5CP8F23UL8	1568381085	196367002	The Thin Books: Daily Strategies & Meditations for Fat-Free, Guilt-Free, Binge-Free Living - Revised and Updated Version	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Best Diet Motivation Book Available!	This is the best book EVER for daily motivation to stick with your diet, or weight-management program, even better that the books put out by Over-Easters Anonymous.  I have used this book many times, over a number of years, and continue to be motivated again EVERY TIME I read it.   <br /> <br />The book is filled with specific, concrete suggestions of new ideas to try to keep yourself motivated, and sticking to your program.  It gives new, specific things to consider and work on that are REALLY  USEFUL, unlike many other books.  <br />	2004-08-07
US	44731169	R3JDWITM9EG9EK	1575420546	826541542	The Bully Free Classroom: Over 100 Tips and Strategies for Teachers K-8	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Best Book I've Seen on the Subject	I am currently a third-grade teacher, and I have taught many levels of students, from kindergarten to high school.  I read this whole book in two days, and it is the best book I have seen on the subject, as a resource for teachers (and for parents).<br />The book is divided into three major parts:  Creating a Positive Classroom, Helping Victims, and helping Bullies.  Each section of the book was equally good.  Every section is filled with very specific ideas which would work in almost any school situation, of any level.  95% of the ideas and suggestions would be appropriate for Grade 3, without any modification.  The book is also filled with reproducable pages which ARE REALLY USEFUL, unlike most reproducables which I have seen for teachers.  Not one paragraph of the entire book wasted my time.  Every single page is packed with hard-hitting practical ideas.  I also liked the many, many suggestions which can be used for journaling ideas.  Some examples:  &quot;How would you feel--if you were the most popular student, or the least popular student; if you were the new kid in school; if you wore glasses.&quot;  Also:  &quot;When was the last time someone did something really nice for you?  What did the person do?  How did it make you feel?&quot; Also:  &quot;What do you like about yourself?  What are you best at?  What makes you proud of yourself?&quot;  These are just a few of the 200 or so ideas JUST for writing about, which are scattered throughout the book.<br />On a personal note, in the part dealing with Helping Bullies, I recognized a family member who is a verbal and emotional bully.  This book also gave me some excellent ideas for dealing with this adult.<br />I just wish I had come across this remarkable and helpful book years ago!  I can recommend it to teachers of all ages of children (and parents, too).	2004-06-29
US	44731169	R3DI4PZ6ECVA43	0823007553	372293433	Color Theory (Watson-Guptill Artist's Library)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	José is a FANTASTIC  Art Teacher!	I paint landscapes in oil for a hobby.  The other day, while cleaning all my paint tubes, and while looking at the names of the colors, I began thinking about them.  I then found I had José's wonderful book on my shelf for several years, still unread.  I picked it up, and found I literally could not put it down.  For an artist, this book reads like a \\"thriller!\\"<br />One of the things I liked best about the book is that it is not necessary to read it in order, from beginning to end.  I turned first to the section on shadows, as shadows are an area I am currently having problems with.  José explains EVERYTHING  SO  WELL, and CLEARLY.  When he refers to matter already covered in an earlier section of the book, he clearly states the page number, where you can go back and refer to that section.  His treatment of shadows is typical of how he addresses each subject in his little book.  <br />José opens the chapter with a brief discussion of what Van Gogh once said about shadows, and discusses how artists currently view shadows as blue; whereas, at one time, they were viewed as similar to Van Dyck brown, or burnt umber.    He explains how the post-impressionists discovered that the basic color of shadows is blue, and he devotes an entire lesson to actually showing us how that is so.  Next, he devotes a second lesson to understanding the local color in darker tones, which he also points out is somewhat reminiscent of an old master's painting.  In the first lesson, he gives us a sample still life painting, all in shades of blue.  In the second lesson, we see the same still life painting, where the shadows are not made with blue, but only by using darker tones of the local colors.  The third lesson deals with the complementary color of the local color.  Here, we are given a third example of the still life, painted this time in complementary colors, which are used as shadows.  José also points out that the still life now looks very much like the style of some paintings byToulouse-Lautrec, Cézanne, and especially Van Gogh, with the contrast originating from the juxtaposition of the most opposed colors, of highest contrast.  He is not advising us to paint like this, only to help us understand.  The fourth lesson in the chapter deals with the finished painting.  We now see the same still life painted correctly, with proper use three types of colors in the shadows:   blue, the local color in darker tones, and the complementary of the local color.  As José carefullly guides our eye through each step of the process, we now really understand what he wants us to see!<br />I then read the other chapters, in order from the beginning.  One of the best discussions dealt with looking at various landscape scenes (shown in photographs) and how each painter asks himself, \\"What color is it, actually?\\"  He then takes us through a whole lesson, showing us his own thoughts (and sometimes, confusion) as he paints the landscape, trying to decide what color each thing is.  This really helped me see that every painter is going throught the same thought processes, and having the same problems that I am.  <br />I have several unfinished paintings I am still working on, and yet, after several years, was unable to determine, by looking, just what the problem was.  After reading two-thirds of this book yesterday, I looked at my paintings this morning, and can see the solutions immediately!  Now I finally know what to do.  If only I had found this wonderful book sooner!<br />I was pleased to look on the back cover and find that José, himself, has written a number of other art books in this series, dealing with many other topics.  So often in a series, each book is written by a different author.  José is such a wonderful art teacher that I am delighted to see HE has written all of them.  I intend to purchase several more of his books, as soon as I am able.	2004-06-22
US	44731169	RRETRHZ03C1EC	0312995482	790162668	Killer Dust (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Too Many Disparate Plots, But Still Excellent!!!	I read the previous Em Hanson book as my introduction to Andrews' forensic geology novels.  I loved it so much that  I was disappointed when it ended.  I was so happy to find Em's story continued in this new novel, Killer Dust.  I also ordered her previous novels, which I haven't yet read, just on the strength of the one novel I read.  Andrews is an excellent writer.<br />Certain things about this novel were fantastic and exciting, while other things were disappointing and confusing.  What I loved most about this novel was the science.  I had never heard about the dust blowing across the Atlantic, from Africa, forming the basis of the soil in all the Caribbean Islands, turning sunsets redder from Venezuela to Miami, and even transporting live locusts from Africa, as well as dangerous pathogens which kill Caribbean coral and dust which gives severe asthma to Caribbean Islanders-especially the dramatic increases in the dust since 1970.  Em Hansen's character reads some books, mentioned by name, that gave me a good starting  point to research all this on the internet.  I easily found confirmation of everything she mentioned in the book.  It's all really fascinating and based on excellent science.  Furthermore, I found it of particular interest since I live in Africa--in Morocco, where all this dust originates--while I also have family in Florida.  Most of the book takes place in Florida, and I learned many things about that state I did not know, in spite of having visited there.<br />What I did not like about this particular book was that it left too many loose ends, and I wound up feeling confused about some of the things that had happened.  I felt like there was something wrong with me, that I had to go back and reread a number of parts, trying to make sense of what was happening.  I felt much better after going to Amazon.com and reading that other reviewers had the same problem.  It is mainly only the last third of the book that gave me this problem.  I think the book has some great ideas and plots, but that the problem is the author has tried to put TOO MANY separate plots into the same book.  Maybe she could have separated the plots into two different books, and it might have worked better.  She has tried to combine NASA, U.S. politics, George Bush and the War on Terrorism, the blowing African dust question, and anthrax and bioterrorism, together with the main character's personal life with her disappearing boyfriend, and stalking of a woman astronaut.  It's just too many disparate things for one novel.  The thing that really did bother me at the end of the book was that I could just never figure out, even with looking back and rereading, WHO pushed Calvin Wheat (the African dust researcher) off the cruise ship, and WHY!!!  I also felt very confused by the whole commando-island scene, not making a lot of sense out of what was happening, or why, or to whom, even after rereading it three times.  I'm still waiting to find out MORE about Leah, Jack's mother.  Maybe the NEXT novel will be able to answer some of these questions, in retrospect.<br />Her last chapter explains a bit about why the issue of stalking is in the novel.  The author explains that she herself, in her real life, was the victim of stalking for years, and that the police could/would do little to help her.  She wanted to bring these issues to the forefront.  She did do that, but I feel that if that was what she wanted to highlight,  she should have made that about half the book, with one other major plot, such as the African dust, OR the anthrax question, OR the war on terrorism and U.S. politics.   She was just too ambitious in this book.  Correct treatment of all these plots would require a longer thriller, as opposed to a mystery.   <br />This was still a good book, and I still found it difficult to put down, in spite of the problems.  If you are interested in science, stalking, or just the character of Em Hansen, read this book anyway.  I am sure there willbe more Em Hansen novels coming (as the book ends with her finding Jack, but we are still waiting to see what happens with their relationship).  So if you like Em Hansen, definitely read this book so that you don't have a gap in your knowledge of what has happened to their relationship before the next book.	2004-06-05
US	44731169	R3VLG1LUFC4BWU	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fifth Book Concentrates on Problems of Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni	After being pushed a bit to the sidelines in books 3 and 4, Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni comes back into prominence in this book.  We learn more about him, and see how he faces life's challenges.  The detective agency cases continue to be fascinating, and resolved in unusual and satisfactory ways.  While I can't give a hint here to the ending, without spoiling it, it is ABSOLUTELY  FANTASTIC, a BLOCKBUSTER ending.  The whole book was worth it to read JUST FOR THAT.  On the very last page, I was so happy to learn that the author is in the process of writing a sixth book!	2004-05-05
US	44731169	R2K9OSLIJI0HAB	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Another Book Full of African Wisdom	Third in the series of the No. 1 Ladies' Detection Agency, a person could pick this up and read it on its own.  But I don't recommend it.  I feel everyone would enjoy this book FAR more after reading the first two books in the series.  <br />As good as the first two books were, each book only seems to get better!   I couldn't put the book down, and read the whole thing in one day.  Unlike some U.S. reviewers, I did not find this book to be weak.  I found the fact that some cases/plots resolve more satisfactorily than others to be a mirror of REALITY.  (I am an American living overseas, and have often heard British/Australians/New Zealanders criticise American movies/books for having endings that are \\"too pat,\\" with too many ends tied up TOO well!  Perhaps those who criticise this book about the the opposite are more used to American authors.  I think part of what they are feeling is that this is a British author.)<br />As all books do in series, different books focus more on certain characters, to the exclusion of others.  Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni is somewhat on the sidelines in this book, but he does come back into prominence in the successive books (and in fact, book five seems to be primarily about him).<br />The title of this book comes from a particularly interesting case Mma Makutsi investigates while Precious Ramotswe is away investigating another particulary interesting case.  The best thing about the book is the way these two cases resolve!  I feel this writer has had a lot of life experience, and ends up imparting this wisdom about life through his characters adventures and investigations.  Furthermore, living in Africa these past 12 years, I absolutely love the African settings and how the African people of Botswana are portrayed.	2004-05-03
US	44731169	R2KRBEZD6RTCSI	140003180X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 4)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Wonderful Book in the Series	Even though this book is the fourth in the series about the No. 1 Ladies' Detection Agency, it could easily be picked up and read, not having read the previous three books.  The reason is that the author starts the book by giving a good summary, in several pages, of  the most important points of the previous books.  As good as each book in the series has been, it seems as if every new book is even better!<br />This book imparts the wisdom of experience through the characters.  I actually cried with the characters when they cried.  This book finds Precious Ramotswe still unmarried, and Mma Makutsi starting a typing school, and with a boyfriend.  The cases taken on are as interesting as always, and their resolutions impart wisdom to the reader.  This book left me immediately eager to pick up the fifth book in the series.	2004-05-03
US	44731169	R3OFESUJGVBIV	0385475772	772348994	Nine Parts of Desire: The Hidden World of Islamic Women	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Really Improved My Opinion of Ayatollah Khomeni and Iran	I'm an American woman who has lived overseas in Morocco for twelve years.  My friends and I are reading this book for our monthly bookclub selection.  None of us was able to put the book down, once we started it.  We all read the book in one or two days.<br />The author is a journalist who spent considerable time in the Middle East, reporting from various countries.  Although this is not a scholarly work, it is well-researched.  The book focuses on her own personal experiences in each country, and ancecdotes from various women she met in each country.<br />For me, the most interesting parts of the book discussed the home and personal life of the Ayatollah Khomeni.  After reading this book, my opinion of both him, and of Islamic life in Iran, went up by about 300 percent.  The author met and interviewed his wife, and various family members.  He was a fairly modern, new-age husband, and playful father, who even got up in the middle of the night and gave his kids their bottles, and changed their diapers.  The only thing he was quite strict about was the Islamic religion.<br />Anyone who is interested in the lives of women in the Middle East should read this book.  The book is as accurate today as it was when it was written.	2004-04-12
US	44731169	R1AD6V4Q73F35O	0060536330	245843871	Luck of the Draw: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Another Meaty, Humorous Novel About Cuban Americans	Another meaty, humorous novel about Cuban Amercians.  I never knew that Cuba had a big gambling industry prior to 1959, nor that Batista had invited in the American Mafia to run the Cuban gambling casinos.  When Castro took over, shutting down the casinos, all those who made their living working in the casinos fled Cuba, and mostly settled in Las Vegas.  I had no idea that Cubans were one of the major ethnic groups in Las Vegas.  <br />This is another great novel.  The newest character , from Miami, starts out being rather unsympathetic and unlikeable, seeming odd in her living habits, and giving her kids each two double expressos before school each morning just to wake them up !  But she soon becomes involved in tracking down the disappearance of her sister (who lives in Las Vegas).  During the time in Las Vegas, we come to like the main character.  <br />I view ALL of Aguilera's books as \\"women's fantasies.\\"  All of her books are about woman characters, told in first person, solving various mysteries.  Yet, each book is about different characters and situations.  Furthermore, while each book is a lighthearted mystery, really funny and clever, serious elements are brought in for the reader to consider.  Usually, the main character is having some marriage problems (as most people experience in their 30's).  Each character in each book deals with those problems in a unique way, while solving the main mystery in the story.  I highly recommend ALL of Aguilera's books, and I can hardly wait until she gets her next book written!	2004-04-03
US	44731169	R3FNDBPA5CK835	1587242613	279759849	The Killing Bee (Jacob Burns Mysteries)	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	I Suggest Trying Another Book by the Same Author	As a teacher, I really looked forward to reading this book about the murder of a high-school principal.  The murder is investigated by a fiftish ex-hippie stay-at-home writer, who gets involved because of knowing the accused, who is a friend of his.  He hopes to prove her innocence.  The author seems to be trying to inject some humor and light-heartedness into the mystery by making his main character a rather bumbling investigator who gets himself into and out of some pretty serious scrapes.   For me, this did not work very well in the book.  I never bonded with the main character, and I never felt the book difficult to put down.  It was a bit of a chore to finish.  However, the book does pick up in the final third.  In spite of my feelings about the book, I did consider it a worthwhile read, as the author definitely has some points to make about what he thinks of the current rage for standardized testing as the be-all and end-all.  Because I found the book a bit slow, I was quite surprised to see at the end of the book that the author is an executive story editor for the TV series,  \\"Law and Order.\\"  He seems to have also written three previous books about this main character, so this book must be the fourth in the series.  So all I can surmise is that he must be a great author, and that this particular book is simply not one of his best.	2004-03-19
US	44731169	RBILRR51MZQQ6	0805063897	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	9	12	N	Y	One of the BEST Books I�ve Read	I thought this book was absolutely fantastic.  I found it an easy, five-hour read of 221 pages.  The negative reviews of this book, I believe, are coming from two sorts of people.  First are those who wish the book to be something it is not.  This book is NOT attempt to be a serious, sociological study.  It is only what its author purports it to be-the experiences of ONE reporter, making three reasonable attempts, in three vastly different locales, to live at a minimally acceptable standard on the salaries offered in low-wage service positions.<br />Other criticisms of this book came from those who felt the author was a left-wing extremist, against the rich, advocating transfer payments from rich to poor.   A few people ranted and raved, in their reviews, about what \\"solutions\\" she was advocating.  I think these people didn't read very carefully.  I did not find her advocating any solutions at ALL, only bringing up the dilemmas, and posing questions that we should ALL be posing.  But to accuse the author of advocating things which she did not say, is akin to putting words in her mouth, by some people who literally feel threatened by anyone who asks the questions she poses!<br />The most overwhelming feeling I got from reading her book was of HOW RICH I AM (and I'm an American  living in a third-world country)!  Anyone who is feeling the least bit sorry for themselves in this life should read this book, and they will  IMMEDIATELY feel better.  Mainly, just having good food to eat every day, and being able to pay for medical, or dental, care whenever I need it is a true luxury that we all forget about, as well as having a comfortable roof over my head.  We are all guilty of taking these things so much for granted, when we have them.<br />The most important conclusion the author draws in this book is that low-wage jobs are so far out-of-whack with the costs of housing, and that this is what is just killing people, and keeping them barely surviving.  She shows how thissituation has gotten worse in recent years.  It is certainly true that most people in low-wage jobs are working two jobs to make ends meet.  I know this from personal experience.  My husband, a foreign immigrant to America for a time, worked in a hotel cleaning rooms.  He was the ONLY person who did not go to a second job at the end of an 8-hour shift (as we fortunately didn't NEED him to do that).  What this author, and most Americans, may not realize however, is that this is NOT just an AMERICAN problem.  It is true that the more socialistic countries in Europe \\"distribute the wealth\\" to lower-income persons.  But they are about the ONLY countries in the world that do (Canada may also).  In MOST countries of the world, salaries are FAR out-of-whack with  housing costs.  And the disparity if FAR worse than in America.  But there is one difference in America.  America has a lot of laws making it illegal to have too many people living in an apartment, for example.  You aren't allowed to have more people that two in an apartment for each bedroom.  In third-world countries, these restrictions don't exist.  So you could have ten people crowding into a one-bedroom apartment.  And believe me, they sometimes do.  It's the only way to make ends meet, for a lot of people.  This is a problem that has been with us since the world began, and will continue.  I don't have a solution.  I am not rich.  But I FELT SO RICH reading this book.   This book will help any person to really freshly appreciate what they do have.  I HIGHLY recommend it to EVERYONE.	2004-03-19
US	44731169	R2PMEUO4E2FU98	0312984456	214567501	Fault Line (Em Hansen Mysteries)	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Fantastic Mystery Solved by a Forensic Geologist	This is the first Sarah Andrews mystery I've read, starring main character Em Hansen, Forensic Geologist.  I loved it so much that I'm planning to go out and buy every book of Sarah Andrew's that I can get my hands on !  <br />The book takes place in heavily faulted Salt Lake City.  Geologist (and informal investigator-in-training) 35-year-old Em Hansen is shaken awake about 4 AM by an approximate 5.3-level earthquake.  She gets caught up in the two murder investigations of a geologist and a reporter who are out to expose earthquake damage in public structures, but which developers want covered up.  Furthermore, we are drawn far into the Mormon world, and society, of Salt Lake City.  Along the way, we also learn a lot of interesting science and geology.  If you enjoy science at all, you will LOVE this whole mystery series.<br />I absolutely loved the main character.  She has a lot of interesting friends, and an interesting, but very realistic life.  In addition to this mystery, this author has a lot to say about life (through what her characters are experiencing) and gives her readers a lot to chew on.	2004-03-19
US	44731169	R3R4D3IAS1B3AA	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better Title:  Galileo AND His Daughter	We read this book as the monthly selection in our bookclub.  The book is very interesting, but definitely NOT a FAST read.  Several people in our bookclub commented that they felt the book was too long, and not well-edited.  Some people had read Longitude, by the same author, and said that it was a better book.  Nevertheless, when we discussed what we would have taken out, every person had a different opinion.  For each of the things that one person in the group didn't care for, another person in the group enjoyed.  So I think it was fine.<br />Some people were disappointed that the book turned out to be more about Galileo than his daughter.  But for me, I enjoyed that it was.  I felt the last third of the book was the best.  I learned a LOT from reading this book.  Sobel brings the characters to life.  I feel like I know Pope Urban now as a human being.  I also know Galileo and his daughter both as human beings, just as if I had met all of these people in my current life.  Some people in our group were not interested in the science presented in the book, but really enjoyed reading about all the herbal and plant remedies used during the Middle Ages.  The herbal things didn't interest me, but I LOVED the science discussions presented in the book.<br />No matter WHAT your interest, this book is a slow, but very worthwhile read.  It stimulated me to want to read much more on many of the subjects that were only touched on in the book.	2004-02-22
US	44731169	RICBCSKBJ1GJ4	0451410017	182243858	Pressure Points	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Super-Exciting Office Thriller	Super-exciting office thriller about three partners, at odds, who are forced to go on a week-long seminar retreat together in a remote Oregon location.  The characters are partners in an advertising agency.  Brooks is uniquely qualified to write this book, having spent twenty-one years in advertising before becoming a writer.<br />I read the entire book in one day, finishing after midnight, just because I couldn't put the book down.  The twist at the end was unexpected, and caught me completely by surprise.  I plan to read more of Larry Brooks.	2004-02-05
US	44731169	R5LSE48Y1AU7X	0714525804	422601760	The Voices of Marrakesh: A Record of a Visit	Books	4	47	48	N	N	Marrakesh Resident Likes the Book	As a twelve-year foreign resident of Marrakesh, I read with interest this slim volume in about two hours.  Before reading, I thought this was something written in the past 20 years.  But I quickly discovered that the author's sejour in Morocco must have occurred in about 1959 (according to my Moroccan husband) due to certain events mentioned.  (The book was first published in 1967.)<br />The book takes place in the time when Morocco was still part of the French Colonial Empire, and when the French had placed a \\"puppet\\" sultan on the throne.  The author speaks of camel markets in Bab Khemis, the camels having walked in a train of 105 animals from the Western Sahara.  Those not purchased by butchers (yes, for eating) in Marrakesh were to continue walking north to Settat, the end of the line for the camel trains (just outside of Casablanca).  This must have been before trucking was the common method of transport.  Occassional \\"blue men\\" of the Sahara could still be seen in Marrakesh.  <br />This book will be of particular interest to any visitors of Moroccan Jewish origin who may be returning to visit the land of their parents.  The author, we find out, is Jewish, and just happens to meet up with some members of the Jewish community.  He gets pulled into their own little world (which no longer exists in Marrakesh, as most of that community emmigrated to Israel after 1967).  He relates his experiences.<br />If you are thinking of traveling to Marrakesh, or anywhere in Morocco, this little book will open your eyes to the sights, sounds, and smells of the city.  Much of the city has changed, but the atmosphere has remained the same.	2004-01-29
US	44731169	R3Q4PP2Y11CO7H	0393323145	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	Reads Like a Thriller�Hard to Put Down	If you are interested in the origin of human genetics, or are just an armchair amateur scientist, you will find this book reads almost like a \\"thriller.\\"  I had trouble putting the book down, and read it in two days.  Sykes is one of the cutting-edge geneticists, yet is able to explain all concepts easily and clearly for the layman.  As a teacher, I really appreciate this.<br />This book is partly the story of the genetic discoveries, and partly Bryan' story of how those discoveries came about through a series of chances in his life.  So there is both science, and human interest.  Sykes also explains historical assumptions that other scientists have made, and why those did not work out, previous to the new discoveries.  <br />There was only one part of the book I did not enjoy as much, which were the chapters devoted to the hypothetical lives of the various seven \\"clan-mothers.\\"  This part is not science, merely conjecture.   However, I can see why he included them-to give a CONCRETE example of how their lives would have existed, and how they were just some of the many women living at that time.  However, the other women's mitochondrial DNA, for reasons clearly explained, did not get passed down to Europeans.  <br />The book focuses primarily on both the complicated story of European ancestry,  and the solution of the previous mystery of South Pacific ancestry.  But the best thing about the book is that he winds up by providing a discussion of the ancestry of the whole world, and gives a detailed map about how, where, and when all of those branches came out of Africa-as well as mapping the branches we know from Africa today.	2004-01-09
US	44731169	R1I920EVUIBGAH	0816513244	613158759	Chilies to Chocolate: Food the Americas Gave the World	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Packs a Lot Into a Small Volume	This book is just what it purports to be in the preface:  a series of stand-alone articles taken from a program presented at the American Academy of Sciences.  Therefore, it is not a comprehensive treatment of all foods from the Americas.  What it does cover are in-depth chapters on various American foods that the authors deem to be most important, especially in the future.  While I didn't find the book difficult to put down between readings, I was always eager to pick it up again.<br />I am listing the chapter titles here because I think they are an excellent representation of what is actually covered in the book:  Europeans' Wary Encounter with Tomatoes, Potatoes, and Other New World Foods; The Renaissance of Amaranth; Vanilla, the Nectar of the Gods; Maize, the Gift from America's First Peoples; Beans of the Americas; The Chili Pepper, and Diffusion of the Domesticated Capsicums Since Columbus; Forgotten Roots (plant roots) of the Incas; The History and Botany of Cacao; Quinoa's Roundabout Journey to World Use; and the Epilogue:  Native Crops of the Americas, Passing Novelties, or Lasting Contributions to Diversity.<br />The book could have been improved by a short section of color photographs of the plants discussed, showing what they are, and how they grow.  I didn't know what amaranth was, and had to look it up elsewhere.  Even though I have eaten quinoa, other people might not know what it is. But to be fair, the authors come right out and say that this book is far from a comprehensive treatment, and they assume that interested readers can do supplementary research on their own (very easy with an on-line encyclopaedia).<br />I began this book with a fair background knowledge of the subject; yet, I learned a lot of new information.  Some of the most interesting things I learned were many new facts about vanilla; about the two major pathways by which corn was domesticated, and the naming of various corn stalks;  how quinoa came to be first grown in Colorado, asthe first place outside of the Andes; why quinoa was difficult to grow in Colorado, in spite of it being a high-altitude crop; and about many other interesting and potentially useful root crops from the Andes, which I had never heard of.	2004-01-09
US	44731169	R2YE4QMZRVZ6EG	0804114986	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Wonderful Read	This is the first of Amy Tan's books that I have read, and I REALLY loved it.  The book is a study of the relationships between a woman, her mother (a Chinese immigrant to America), and her grandmother.  The Bonesetter's daughter is the Grandmother.  The story is told from the Granddaughter's perspective, as she is dealing with her mother's impending Alzheimer's, and as she is going though some relationship problems with her long-term American partner.  I really enjoyed the total immersion into Chinese culture that comes through the mother's and grandmother's stories.  Amy Tan combines an intriguing story of Chinese and American-Chinese cultures with issues that many American women in their 30's and 40's are facing.  An extraordinary book.  I look forward to reading more of Amy Tan's books.	2004-01-04
US	44731169	R3LFYSQH5GX4QE	068484124X	41691709	Backtalk: 4 Steps to Ending Rude Behavior in Your Kids	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	This Book Works!	I am both a mother and an elementary-school teacher in an American School overseas.  I have been having trouble with backtalk for several years from both my daughter, and my kids at school.<br />This book gives an informative, logical discussion of where this backtalk problem is coming from, and indicates that a lot of it has to do with the media.  For example, the kinds of shows which were on TV when I was a kid were \\"Leave It to Beaver,\\"  in which the only backtalker was the juvenile delinquent Eddie Haskel!  Compare that to today's sitcoms featuring constant backtalking between ALL characters.  Other social reasons for the rise of backtalk are also discussed.<br />I read this book and realized that I am always giving my daughter, and the kids at school, too many extra chances to behave.  The books discusses a straightforward, yet respectful, strategy toward kids which teaches them to behave in a likewise respectful manner toward adults (the antithesis of what they are seeing on most TV programs).<br />As an amusing side comment, my ten-year-old daughter saw this book and asked me what it said.  She does not like to read.  I told her that she was welcome to pick up the book and read for herself what it said, but other than that, she was just going to have to wait to find out when she backtalked to me (I said this to encourage her to read).  She didn't read it, but told me that she was sure it said to punish kids more, and she immediately started to behave better!!  It doesn't say that at ALL, however.  It explains a calm and respectful way of TALKING to kids and MAKING and ENFORCING (non-physical)  CONSEQUENCES that really works.  I have already spoken in this manner to my daughter, and it really does work.  It makes me FEEL BETTER as a parent, too, instead of screaming and shouting (and/or spanking) all the time!  I can hardly wait for Christmas vacation to be over so I implement the suggestions in my third-grade classroom.<br />If you are having trouble with backtalk, definitely buy this book.  You can read the whole thing in about three hours.  The discussions are straightforward, and practical.  The authors are both Ph.D.'s who are also educators, and parents, as well.  They themselves have struggled with backtalk both at home and at school, and are sharing their solutions with others.  The book is really aimed at PARENTS, and dealing with backtalk in the HOME, but there is a short discussion on backtalk at school.<br />The BEST thing about this book is that it is not just a theoretical discussion.  Many sample conversations with children and adolescents are included, showing how they USUALLY go, and then rewritten, to show how they would most likely go, with the NEW parent responses included in the conversation.  So when you finish the book, and think about the first conversation you are going to have with your child backtalking, when suddenly you can't remember what to say!  So like me, you can quickly flip through the pages to the ones you've marked with the responses you want to remember, and have the line ready.  I used the same line three times yesterday, and it worked like a charm.	2004-01-01
US	44731169	R21N71S3SYBJ40	0761130020	684562105	The Lonely Planet Wall Calendar 2004 (Lonely Planet Belgium & Luxembourg)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Lovely Gift or Personal Calendar, on Beautiful, Glossy Paper	This calendar is the width of a normal calendar, but a bit taller.  It's 14&quot; tall, which means that it opens up to a 28&quot; long hanging space on the wall.  Be sure you have room before you order it.  The calendar has one large photo for each month (which is about half the size of a regular calendar's photo), and also a small photo for each day.  The squares to write appointments are at least 50% larger than on a normal calendar.  The photos are really great.  Another feature is that on each new opened page (for each month), all of the photos for that month come from a specific country.  For the following month, all the photos are from another country, and so on.<br />There is only one drawback to this calendar, which is why I am only giving it four stars.  In our case, we often look at a wall calendar from across the room, anywhere from 8-15 feet away, so all of the beautiful photos are too small to see.  I recommend you buy this calendar if you will be placing it in a place where you will normally be seeing it from 3 feet or closer.  If you will normally be further away, buy another style of calendar with one large photo.<br />They have really done an excellent job on this calendar, and it is printed on really beautiful, high-gloss paper.  It would make a WONDERFUL gift for anyone who loves to travel (like me), especially since the scenes come from all over the world!	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R28RIKRDAGLB3R	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	61	62	N	N	Continuing Life Saga of Precious Ramotswe,  Woman PI	I'm an American woman who has spent 12 years living in Africa, and traveled to almost every part of the African continent.  When I discovered the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, I could hardly wait to read Tears of the Giraffe.  I was not disappointed.  I can hardly wait to get to the next books in the series.  After saying she would never, ever remarry (in the first book), Precious does get engaged in this book, but continues to pursue investigating her cases while engaged.  There are a lot of interesting developments that I don't want to give away.  She hasn't gotten married by the end of the book, that is left to us in the third book to find out about.....!<br />I found it interesting that the author is a Professor of Medical law, living in Scotland, but having been born and raised in Zimbabwe.  He has published many varied books on many subjects.  I think these are his \\"fun\\" books!  I also think that part of the reason he has written these books is to show non-Africans what traditional African society is like, especially how it is managing to move into the modern age.  By setting it in Botswana, he neatly sidesteps many of the problems found in other parts of Africa, and is able to concentrate both on his story, and on showing us how traditional Africans THINK and act.  I found this especially interesting, having lived in several African cultures, myself.  I also find the series very uplifting and rewarding to read, in addition to being a good story.  I think some of the critical reviews are from people who have never lived or traveled in Africa, and they just don't realize how true-to-life are so many of the episodes-I do not find these books at ALL condescending toward blacks.  On the contrary, they are a celebration of the traditional GOOD values found in black African culture (a nice change from what we usually see in the news).<br />There were several things I especially enjoyed about this book.  I don't particularly enjoy first-person, male-oriented policedetective novels.  This is about a woman detective, who had no more qualifications than you or I, but who just hung out a sign, and used her common sense.  She ordered a text book from London, from which she learned some investigative procedures.  She's very clever.  The book is not written as a first person, blow-by-blow account.  On the contrary, it is written in third person, and is more about her LIFE, going through her becoming a detective, the cases she meets along the way (which we watch her solve), and what we learn about the society as we go along.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone planning to travel to any southern African country.  It is a light, humorous book, from which you can learn a lot while enjoying a great story.  I found it difficult to put down.  I have now read the first two books in the series, and plan to order every single one.  I can hardly wait until they arrive in the mail!	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R3KT1LH31NEPIT	1931298211	4408305	Natural Wonders of the World 2004 Wall Calendar	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Fantastic Pictures--Good, Big Numbers and Squares	This calendar is even better than I was expecting.  I ordered three different calendars, and this was the best of the three.  The pictures are REALLY interesting, and you will not get tired of ANY of them during the month.  They range from closeups of really unusual rock formations, to Pacific Reefs (from the air), to flowing lava in Scicily.  When my husband opened up the three calendars I had ordered, this was the only one that he really liked.  The price is great, too.  The squares are normal size, to write appointments in, and the numbers are big and dark enough to be seen well clear across the room (unlike many wall calendars).	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R3MWUJ1UTSO47V	1400046270	213452816	Sierra Club 2004 Engagement Calendar	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Really Beautiful Photos, Nice Design	This engagement calendar contains REALLY beautiful photos for every week of the year.  The photos range from rocks, to water, to wildlife, to mountains.  There are a few closeups of small animals, leaves, and snowflakes.  The calendar has photos covering all seasons, as well.  The week starts with Monday at the top of the page, and finishes with Sunday at the bottom of the page.  There is plenty of room to write in appointments.  Dimensions are about 7&quot; x 9&quot;, x 1/2&quot;.  The quality of the paper is lovely.  I bought it for myself, and I love it.	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R2NPNDDYIIOJ7E	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic Book Showing a lot About Botswanan Society	I'm an American woman who has spent 12 years living in Africa, and traveled to almost every part of the African continent.  When I bought this book, somehow, from the name, I was expecting it to be about some Chinese people living in London!  Nevertheless, it was a delightful surprise when I found it was about a lady detective in Botswana.<br />I found it interesting that the author is a Professor of Medical law, living in Scotland, but having been born and raised in Zimbabwe.  He has published many varied books on many subjects.  I think these are his \\"fun\\" books!  I also think that part of the reason he has written these books is to show non-Africans what traditional African society is like, especially how it is managing to move into the modern age.  By setting it in Botswana, he neatly sidesteps many of the problems found in other parts of Africa, and is able to concentrate both on his story, and on showing us how traditional Africans THINK and act.  I found this especially interesting, having lived in several African cultures, myself.  I also find the series very uplifting and rewarding to read, in addition to being a good story.  I think some of the critical reviews are from people who have never lived or traveled in Africa, and they just don't realize how true-to-life are so many of the episodes-I do not find these books at ALL condescending toward blacks.  On the contrary, they are a celebration of the traditional GOOD values found in black African culture (a nice change from what we usually see in the news).<br />There were several things I especially enjoyed about this book.  I don't particularly enjoy first-person, male-oriented police detective novels.  This is about a woman detective, who had no more qualifications than you or I, but who just hung out a sign, and used her common sense.  She ordered a text book from London, from which she learned some investigative procedures.  She's very clever.  The book is not written as a first person, blow-by-blow account.  On the contrary, it is written in third person, and is more about her LIFE, going through her becoming a detective, the cases she meets along the way (which we watch her solve), and what we learn about the society as we go along.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone planning to travel to any southern African country.  It is a light, humorous book, from which you can learn a lot while enjoying a great story.  I found it difficult to put down.  I have now read the first two books in the series, and plan to order every single one.  I can hardly wait until they arrive in the mail!	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R1VCG3FFYIWYPW	0380807408	42900818	Havana Heat: A Lupe Solano Mystery (Lupe Solano Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Another Blockbuster Book About Miami PI Lupe Solano	Wow!  Hang on to your seat again in this continuing series of Miami woman private investigator Lupe Solano, as she brings stolen art treasures out of Havana.  As usual in all of Garcia-Aguilera's books, be prepared for a surprise twist and BLOCKBUSTER ENDING!  I literally could not put this book down as I gripped the arms of my chair reading it.  Plenty of good food and drink, men in her life, and all-around excitement.  The fact that the author sometimes goes a bit overboard on aristocratic Cuban-American  society only makes the books more humorous and interesting.  I really enjoy that, and the way she is able to constantly turn a clever phrase.  The author knows well what she is talking about, being a Cuban-American herself, and having spend 10 years as a Miami woman PI before becoming an investigator.  I really appreciate learning a lot from her books about the Cuban subculture.<br />If you have the chance to read Bitter Sugar first, the first book in this series, by all means do so.  But if you are not able to, this book stands well on its own.	2003-12-20
US	44731169	R246B4KC53LYDB	0439219493	466087919	Attack Of The Soggy Underwater People (Maximum Boy)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Fantasy-Adventure About a Ten-Year-Old Boy	I am a third-grade teacher, and I found this book really exciting.  I began it as a bedtime-story with my ten-year-old daughter, and we just couldn't put it down.  The first evening, we read more than half.  We finished it when we got up in the morning.  I didn't even mind reading the whole thing aloud, it was so exciting.<br />The book starts out by quickly explaining how Maximum Boy (and his sister, a minor character) obtained their powers.  Maximum Boy's parents are leaning on him to do his homework, and the school is leaning on him to take tests which he missed, when the PRESIDENT of the U.S. calls his home, and asks for his help.  His parents, and the school have to give in.  Maximum Boy has to go find out what the soggy underwater people want after they make huge tidal waves, and appear on every beach in the world, threatening to take over the earth.  Maximum Boy has to fight the soggy underwater people in several hard contests, representing the land people of the earth.  The ending is not only a big surprise, and unexpected, but REALLY FANTASTIC !  <br />I recommend this book for good eight-year-old readers, all the way up to adult.  Parents will enjoy this book with their kids, as well.  One of the best kids' books I've read in a long time.   This is the first book in the Maximum Boy series that I've read, and based up on it, I would highly recommend the whole series to both boys and girls.	2003-11-26
US	44731169	RMZOVI3ZD91E6	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fantastic Spy Novel--You Can't Put It Down	This is the first book I've ever read by Ludlum, and it was absolutely fantastic. I read the whole thing in two days. You can tell it was written in the early 80's, when the U.S. and Russia were still enemies, and before e-mail existed. But that does not detract from the story. Basically, two top spies, one Russian, and one American--and both mortal enemies, become outlaws from their respective governments. Yet, both end up working together to prevent &quot;The Matarese,&quot; who originate in Corsica, from taking over the world. Really, really fantastic.	2003-10-26
US	44731169	RXKNXFR88RSCW	0312420986	249764029	The Yellow Wind: With a New Afterword by the Author	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	About People�s Feelings--Not About Politics or Agreements	This book is more important today than when it was orginally written, in 1988.  It contains a new afterward by the author.  The author, a journalist, gives his impressions, and relates various converstaions, as he travels all over the West Bank, and through parts of both Israel and Palestine.  <br />He presents views from both sides of the issue very well.  The book is not about politics, or various peace agreements.  It is about individual people's feelings.  I have read many books on this topic, and this is one of the BEST.  I feel that I understand MUCH better why all the peace agreements come to nothing.  To sum it up in a nutshell, the extremists on both sides will EACH never accept less than ALL of the land-that is why nothing works.	2003-10-20
US	44731169	RFCE6863M1NL9	0060009810	462791236	One Hot Summer	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Fantastic Book, Unfortunate Cover	The cover on this book was unfortunate.  Why ?  The skimpy bathing suit implies light (airhead) reading to me.  Yet this book is not only fun, but surprisingly MEATY, with a lot of serious issues to think about.  Don't let the cover put you off.<br />I picked up the book expecting a continuing saga of the Lupe Solano series (private investigator in Miami), but soon found that the main character was a different woman, a partner in a Miami law firm.  Once I got over that initial disappointment, I was more than pleasantly surprised.  The book is about a happily married woman whose former boyfriend arrives in town, and the consternation caused when he tries to get her to leave her husband.  The main character is pulled into a quagmire.  The BEST part is the ABSOLUTELY SATISFYING ENDING with how she gets herself OUT of this quagmire, in a way that leaves you REALLY admiring the heroine. <br /> Suffice it to say that my turn in our bookclub is coming up, and this is the book I will be choosing !  After reading two books by this author, I plan to read every book of hers that I can get my hands on.	2003-10-20
US	44731169	R1W0AS6XCIOB4F	0345466632	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Gripping Like the Hot Zone, But All About Smallpox	Written in the gripping style of \\"The Hot Zone,\\" Demon in the Freezer is mostly a story about smallpox, and what has happened to it.  Toward the end of the book, anthrax is also explored.  An alternate title for the book could have been,  \\"Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Smallpox-Its Hisory, Present, and  Future.\\"  Except that the book is so interesting that it's difficult to put down.	2003-10-20
US	44731169	RMQ44VLAIPSAD	033374554X	767481527	Fayed: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Comprehensive Bio of  Fayed and his Business	This was a really comprehensive biography of the life of Fayed.  The book takes you through his lowly Egyptian origin-- his poor family, and first job selling Coca-Cola on the street--through his first successes, and his first marriage.  Then the book shows the reader how he completely \\"remade\\" his public image, his family, and ancestors!<br />Most of the book is slower reading because it details all of his business dealings extensively.  But that is really what Fayed's life is all about-BUSINESS.  I did not enjoy this book as much as Bower's other books, such as the one he did on Princess Diana, but that is because of the type of life Fayed led, not because Bower's writing is not as good.  I just want readers to know that this book is NOT read easily, or quickly.   But it will answer ALL questions about Fayed, who he is, his life, his brothers, his business associates-friends and enemies--his business dealings, personal dealings, AND what caused all the hoopla about the British Secret Service assassinating  Dodi and Diana.  Part of it was the \\"Arab psyche,\\" and part of it was Fayed's effort to take any focus off the driver's inebriated condition.  <br />This book answered ALL of my questions about Fayed, and I am glad I purchased the book.  If you are interested in Fayed, by all means, buy this book.	2003-10-05
US	44731169	R1HHF6ICBQUBTJ	039458404X	196340890	Essentials of Classic Italian Cooking	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	A &quot;Joy of Cooking&quot; of Italian Cuisine	The very first recipe I tried out of this book was a great success.  My ten-year-old daughter, her friend, and I followed one of the recipes for making homemade linguini (flat spaghetti), by rolling out the dough, cutting it into strips, and boiling it in water!  Then we ate it with tomato sauce, and it was a GREAT  SUCCESS!<br />This book is very comprehensive.  It could be called the \\"Joy of Cooking,\\" of Italian Cuisine, having chapters on just about every possible type of Italian food.  Directions are given for making EVERYTHING from SCRATCH, the traditional, Italian way.  So buy this book if you are a GOURMET cook, who enjoys spending hours in the kitchen-it is NOT for the busy housewife who has to get a quick dinner on the table.  Completely separate chapters include Fundamentals, Appetizers, Soups, Pasta, Risotto, Gnocchi, Crespelle, Polenta, Frittate, Fish and Shellfish, Chicken-Squab-Duck-Rabbit, Veal, Beef, Lamb, Pork, Variety Meats, Salads, Desserts, Focaccia-Pizza-Bread-Other Special Doughs, and At the Table.  <br />So far, my family has enjoyed every recipe we have tried.	2003-10-05
US	44731169	R1THDGYX376KVB	0139649581	348099011	Winning Office Politics: Dubrins Gd for 90s	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Fantastic,  REALLY COMPREHENSIVE Book!	The most important thing to know about this book is that it is REALLY COMPREHENSIVE.  Not only does it cover everything you hope it does, but it also covers it from BOTH the perspectives of lower-level employees, and higher-up employees.  <br />I bought this book after finding out that working hard, and STAYING OUT of office politics was getting me NOWHERE, AND HURTING MY CAREER.  Especially since I work in an organization where it seems that office politics is all that many employees are thinking about!  The book discusses the ineveitability of office politics, and gives you an extensive test to find out how \\"political\\" you are yourself.  The results surprised me in that I was not quite the \\"dolt\\" I had previously presumed myself to be! <br /> Once you have examined your own potential at office politics, the book  tells you every possible strategy to get on your boss's good side, and every possible strategy to gain the support of lower-ranking people, as well.  One example they gave that I would NEVER have thought of is to pay careful attention to whether your boss prefers written, or oral, communication.  I never paid attention to that before-I was giving my boss written memos, because written information is more comfortable for ME, when he prefers to hear things ORALLY.<br />The book then goes on to describe techniques to grab power in an organization, how to use political information, devious political tactics, political blunders, outwitting difficult people, bouncing back from career adversity, surviving a corporate takeover, and defending yourself against unfair politics.  It discusses ALL of these topics from the perspectives of lower-level,mid-level, and upper-level positions.  So no matter if you work in the mail room, in the executive suite, or anywhere in between, this book is for YOU.  One of the best, most comprehensive books I've recently read.	2003-10-04
US	44731169	RIEX7M3SKMN92	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Dragged in Places, But Still a Good Read	This third book in the Left Behind Series dragged a bit in places, but that's OK-you can't expect every book in a long series to be equally good !  Part of the reason it draggged is that there was some summarizing of previous books added in for readers who may have picked up this book without seeing the former books.  Even so, don't skip this book, because some important things happen, and you need to know those things for the following books.<br />For me, the most interesting thing in this book was Nicolae's ongoing relationship with Hattie, and what happens with that.	2003-10-04
US	44731169	REUCGAOXQMWH7	1857765362	403314483	Restless for Morocco	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Extremely Well-Written, with Excellent Insights	I am an American woman who has lived in Marrakesh, Morocco for the past ten years. I picked up this book on a recent trip to London. When I sat down to read it, I literally couldn't couldn't put it down. I finished it in two days.<br />I absolutely loved this book. The author writes very well, and his style of prose is a true pleasure, just for how he puts the words on the page. He has included some interesting color pictures. He has described his personal experiences while traveling around on the various week-stints he has off from his job in the Western Sahara. But what is exceptional about his descriptions is that he shares all of his feelings, and even personal doubts and fears along the way, with his readers. <br />I also found his perspective as a writer very interesting. He is an unmarried, professional soldier. His perspective is quite different from what I would have expected--for example, meeting up with two other men on a deserted trail, he is worried (just as anyone else would be) about whether they mean him harm, and if he would be able to defend himself. He has thoughts and feelings you would expect of any man (perhaps the movies give us the impression that all soliers would be like &quot;Rambo&quot;). When he gets caught on an airplane next to a beautiful woman wearing old fishy-smelling tennis shoes, he makes sure to subsequently meet her in London well-groomed and smelling of cologne. <br />I also really enjoyed comparing his travel and experiences with my own (being a woman, and a mother, who is married to a Moroccan man). I found I had had many similar experiences. Although as my situation is different, these experiences occurred under different circumstances. Lastly, I do agree with most of the conclusions he draws from his various experiences, and they are quite interesting, giving the reader pause to think. I found a few minor conclusions I disagreed with (nothing of real importance)--mostly things learned from having been here ten years and having been married into a Moroccan family, whereas someone living here only ten months might not have the chance to know. <br />This is one of the most enjoyable and worthwhile books I have read in a long time.	2003-10-04
US	44731169	R36R5V3QCM54R6	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One of the Better Books in the Series	I really enjoyed this fourth book in the Left Behind Series, and found it better-written than the second and third books in the series.   In the second and third books, there was a lot of rehashing and repetition about what had happened in the first book (for new readers who might be picking up that book alone, not have read the earlier books).<br />This book is packed full of action.  Several characters die (but not the core group, obviously).  Nicolae becomes highly suspicious of Buck and Rayford.  A spy, apparently planted by Nicolae or Fortunado, is discovered in the midst of the Tribulation Force.<br />It leaves me eager to go out and buy the next book, especially as regards the spy, and what that spy has transmitted to the enemy.	2003-10-04
US	44731169	RZ85D4PNLT4U6	0446672238	438469800	New Women's Dress for Success	Books	5	88	90	N	Y	Excellent New, and Current ,Advice	As someone who has worked many years in the corporate world, I think the reviews criticizing Malloy for being sexist, or promoting unclear rules that vary according to if the supervisor is a woman or a man, are being naive. His excellent and detailed research is clearly explained, and he has no bias whatsoever against women! The criticisers simply don't like hearing what the research bears out.<br />I met John Malloy and bought his first books back in the late 1970's, and his advice REALLY helped me back then when I was a stock broker.  I was delighted to see he had a new book out for women.  I was not disappointed.  He discusses all the ways women's professional dress has changed, and has good research to back up his conclusions, which he also shares with the reader.  I have now changed professions--I am a teacher living overseas.  I still found his advice very valuable, especially his new advice about \\"Casual Fridays,\\" or any other business where dress is normally casual.  Although I didn't know it before I read the book, this is the area which is now giving women the most trouble.  He gives a lot of excellent advice--too much to summarize here.  He covers many particular professions in detail.	2003-09-20
US	44731169	R2GO5YO23HLJE7	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Explore Newfound Conversions, Prepare to Battle Antichrist	I read this book in a single day.  It does keep you turning the pages.  I am not a regular church-goer, and sometimes I found the characters expounding to each other about their newfound faith in a repitious manner. These parts dragged.   (Not that the characters wouldn't continue to think aobut their conversions, but the writing about it was done in a very repetitious manner.)  So if you are a person who is not DEFINITELY interested in religion and knowing more about the continued propehcies of Revelation, then you would probably not rate this book highly.  I still enjoyed the book, and the plot was good.  I like the characters.  I will be continuing with the Series, but this book left me less excited to go on to the next than the first book did.	2003-09-05
US	44731169	R11DK4YZA6A7XP	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Explore Newfound Conversions, Prepare to Battle Antichrist	I read this book in a single day.  It does keep you turning the pages.  I am not a regular church-goer, and sometimes I found the characters expounding to each other about their newfound faith in a repitious manner. These parts dragged.   (Not that the characters wouldn't continue to think aobut their conversions, but the writing about it was done in a very repetitious manner.)  So if you are a person who is not DEFINITELY interested in religion and knowing more about the continued propehcies of Revelation, then you would probably not rate this book highly.  I still enjoyed the book, and the plot was good.  I like the characters.  I will be continuing with the Series, but this book left me less excited to go on to the next than the first book did.	2003-09-05
US	44731169	R3QAUIJ8EDFGU	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	A Religious Thriller	I'm not a regular church attendee, nor do I believe in revelation's prophecies.  However, I am interested in religion, and I thought this series sounded quite interesting after having been told about it by a friend.  I was NOT disappointed.  I think the story, and the characters, are wonderful.  After reading this first book, I am going to buy every book in the series.<br />The two authors have over 160 published books to their credit, which speaks for itself.  Both are eminently qualified to write on religious subjects.   La Haye is a minister who has published over 40 non-fiction books, translated into 30 languages.  He holds doctorates in both theology and literature, and is a man of many outstanding accomplishments.  Jenkins, in addition to working as an editor and publisher, has personally published over 100 books, and in dozens of well-known magazines.<br />After perusing the other reviews, I think I see why some readers have poorly rated this book.  Most of the readers who give poor ratings are not really interested in religion.  Therefore, they see the books as an effort to \\"scare, and convert\\" them to become born-again Christians.  Who knows if the authors feel they may \\"bring some people to God.\\"  Personally, I read the story because I enjoy religious thrillers!  I didn't feel like they were trying to convert me.  My advice is, if religion and religious subjects turn you off, don't buy this book.<br />What I enjoyed most about the book is just seeing how ordinary people might react if the prophecies in the Bible suddenly started being fulfilled!  I think it's a great story.  Personally, I think the characters are well-developed and interesting.  <br />There is another reason that non-religious people might want to consider reading this book-something no one else has mentioned in other reviews.   Religious fundamentalism seems to be on the rise worldwide over the past 20 years.  It is happening in nearly every country, and nearly every religion-Christian, Muslim, Hindu, etc.  As with ANY major trend, it makes sense to know and follow what's going on.  I'm an American woman living in Morocco.  I have become more interested in, and knowledgeable about, religion since living here, especially since some of the Muslims I know make lots of comments about the Christian religion-one recent example being that George Bush may be  the \\"antichrist!\\"  One interesting thing I read in THIS book is that the antichrist is supposed to come from a EUROPEAN country.   Anyway, I plan to share this book with some of my Muslim friends who read English, as well as with other friends-but mainly, just because I really enjoyed the book.<br />Additionally, for anyone who already knows that they enjoy the Religious Thriller Genre, I HIGHLY recommend another book called, \\"A Skeleton in God's Closet,\\" by Paul Maher.	2003-09-04
US	44731169	RB18RBVSDYIO	0553258990	107272816	The Matarese Circle: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fantastic Spy Novel--You Can't Put It Down	This is the first book I've ever read by Ludlum, and it was absolutely fantastic.  I read the whole thing in two days.  You can tell it was written in the early 80's, when the U.S. and Russia were still enemies, and before e-mail existed.  But that does not detract from the story.  Basically, two top spies, one Russian, and one American--and both mortal enemies, become outlaws from their respective governments.  Yet, both end up working together to prevent &quot;The Matarese,&quot; who originate in Corsica, from taking over the world.  Really, really fantastic.	2003-08-16
US	44731169	R2DOJU8C640JAY	0822530465	543109013	Cockroaches (Early Bird Nature Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Really Outstanding Children�s Book	I am a third-grade teacher who ordered this book for my class.   I live in the warm climate of Morocco, where cockroaches are as common as flies.  My kids are absolutely fascinated by this book, and it is one of the most popular books in my class.<br />This book is one of the best animal books for children that I've ever seen, as are all the other books in the Early Bird Nature Series.  In 48 pages, there are 41 outstanding, full-color photographs.  The enlarged text is perfect both for reading to a child, or for a child to read to himself.  The language and book design are perfect for a child between Grades 2 and 4, but even quite interesting even for me, as an adult!  <br />Topics covered are:  the many different kinds of cockroaches, and where they live all over the world;  that they are nocturnal, and what that means; their various body parts, and the functions of each of those parts; what they eat and drink; how they clean themselves; how and where eggs are laid; how their babies live and grow up; molting; enemies of cockroaches; how long they have lived on the Earth; how they are able to travel to new places using people when they move; and about some cockroaches who are kept as pets, or who live in nature, as in the jungle, far from people.<br />The first page in the book both introduces new vocabulary words to be found in the text, and also explains where to find the small glossary at the back of the book, and how to use it.  <br />I highly recommend this book for your child.  It will give you hours of fascination reading together.  It would also be an excellent edition to any school library.  I purchased the library-bound edition, which is both attractive and tough.  The cover photo is extraordinary-a big close-up of a cockroach.	2003-08-05
US	44731169	RT91QDRTJPDA3	082253004X	313809207	Scorpions (Early Bird Nature Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Really Outstanding Children�s Book	I am a third-grade teacher who ordered this book for my class.   I live in the warm climate of Morocco, where dangerous scorpions are very common.  My kids are absolutely fascinated by this book, and it is one of the most popular books in my class.<br />This book is one of the best animal books for children that I've ever seen, as are all the other books in the Early Bird Nature Series.  In 48 pages, there are 42 outstanding, full-color photographs.  The enlarged text is perfect both for reading to a child, or for a child to read to himself.  The language and book design are perfect for a child between Grades 2 and 4, but even quite interesting even for me, as an adult!  <br />Topics covered are:   where scorpions can be found in North America; how long scorpions have lived on the Earth, and how they were the first animal to crawl out of the oceans onto land; other animals scorpions are related to; sizes and appearances of various scorpions (with many pictures); the habitats where scorpions live (with pictures of sample habitats); the parts and functions of the scorpion's body, including the stinger; hunting and eating, and how scorpions use their tales to hunt for the animals they eat; what a scorpion sting feels like; antivenin; the life cycle of scorpions; how long scorpions can live without food or water; how light rays invisible to humans at night help scorpions attract insects they can eat; and how baby scorpions are born, and how their mother takes care of them.<br />The first page in the book both introduces new vocabulary words to be found in the text, and also explains where to find the small glossary at the back of the book, and how to use it.  <br />I highly recommend this book for your child.  It will give you hours of fascination reading together.  It would also be an excellent edition to any school library.  I purchased the library-bound edition, which is both attractive and tough.  The cover photo is extraordinary-a big close-up of a black scorpion.	2003-08-05
US	44731169	R2426726LD4S0I	0470849827	906204004	Conquer the Crash: You Can Survive and Prosper in a Deflationary Depression (Wiley Trading)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	Scary, Meaty, and Easy-to-Read	This review is one of the most difficult I've ever written.  This book is packed full of useful information, written in language that you don't have to be a financial analyst to understand.  It is aimed at the ordinary person.<br />The book explains when and how deflation and depression are likely to occur.  The book's thesis is that we are approaching one of those times.  The first half of the book is dedicated to WHY deflation and depression are likely to occur soon, while the second half of the book tells you very specifically what you can do about it.<br />My difficulty in writing this review stems from not being able to say whether or not I agree with his advice.  I bought this book sight unseen, just on the author's name.  In the early 1980's, I was a stockbroker, and remember Precher's forecasts being quite unpopular in the investment community, yet uncannily accurate.  After reading the book, I feel he has said some REALLY important things here, yet still find myself unable to act on the advice.  Reading this book has kept me awake at night, worrying, for six months.  The jury's still out.......you'll have to read his book and decided for yourselves.  Nevertheless, I want to make clear that I DO HIGHLY recommend this book, as it gives you a lot of meat to think about, as he really backs up what he is saying.	2003-08-05
US	44731169	RY0ISPMKOFVXW	0822530090	822185401	Peacocks (Early Bird Nature Books)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Really Outstanding Children�s Book	I am a third-grade teacher who bought this book for my nine-year-old daughter when she requested a picture book about peacocks.  <br />This book is one of the best animal books for children that I've ever seen, as are all the other books in the Early Bird Nature Series.  In 45 pages, there are 39 outstanding, full-color photographs.  The enlarged text is perfect both for reading to a child, or for a child to read to himself.  The language and book design are perfect for a child between Grades 2 and 4, but even quite interesting even for me, as an adult!  <br />Topics covered in the book include:  types of peafowl; differences between males, females, and chicks; how peafowl live together in groups; where in the world peafowl are living today, and where they are originally from; enemies of peafowl; what peafowl eat, and how their digestive systems work; the different types of feathers they have, and how each type works, as well as its function; why and how peacocks display their feathers; strutting; fighting; oil, preening, and dirt baths; and all about their eggs, nests, and chicks.<br />The first page in the book both introduces new vocabulary words to be found in the text, and also explains where to find the small glossary at the back of the book, and how to use it.  <br />I highly recommend this book for your child.  It will give you hours of pleasure reading together.  It would also be an excellent edition to any school library.  I purchased the library-bound edition, which is both beautiful and tough.  The cover photo is extraordinary.	2003-08-05
US	44731169	R3HPFG4I5STRKM	0520208250	883637849	Between Marriage and the Market: Intimate Politics and Survival in Cairo	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	REALLY Excellent Book But Different From What I Had Expected	I ordered this book expecting it to talk about marriage practices in Egypt.  While it touched on this, in less (or different depth) than I had expected, I really did get a lot more than I bargained for.<br />This book is exceptional, in that it is written by an Islamic (Iranian) woman sociologist, who had lived in, and gotten her degree in England.  While she had to study Egyptian Arabic to converse with the people, she lived with them, and was able to understand many more facets of their culture in a different way than a westerner would have, and she was also more accepted and trusted by them because she was a Muslim (and her knowledge of Islam was extensively tested by her subjects in her early months of research).  Yet, she is unlike most Arab sociologists in that she is able to write this book for a WESTERN audience, although the book is aimed more toward professional anthropologist/sociologists than the general public, as evidenced  by her extensive citations and discussions of research methods.  But in spite of that, I as a general reader, never found the book boring.  It was difficult to put down.  I was particularly interested in this subject, as I had spend several months living in Egypt during the time the author was doing her research, and compared my experiences to the author's.  Her experiences and information are so much more extensive and rich.<br />The book basically covers every facet of how poor men and women are able to \\"make it\\" and \\"get by,\\" especially when the majority of them are forced to work outside of the formal sector.  I am an American who has  lived and worked in Morocco for 12 years;  I found that her book more fully explained much of the behavior I see here in Morocco among the poorer classes, even though the economic conditions (especially level of government subsidies) are not the same.  The book shows the behavior of the poor to be very LOGICAL and WORKABLE solutions to their problems, within the frameworks they have to work in.<br/>The book covered pre-marriage negotiations extensively, REALLY explaining the THINKING behind these negotiations.  Again, even having lived in Morocco for 12 years, and even having married into the society, these things were never clear to me before, as they really are now.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is seriously trying to understand the THINKING of both men and women in Arabic cultures, and how that thinking, and the subsequent actions which follow from that thinking,  is different from western cultures.<br />Lastly, this book presents a more POSITIVE view of Egyptians than I have EVER seen.  Unfortunately, so many of the Egyptians that tourists, especially, come in contact with, tend to be such deceitful liars, leaving foreigners with a distasteful impression of all Egyptians.  This book was really uplifting, positive, and refreshing, presenting so many honest, hard-working, caring people who constantly help each other out!  I would have liked to meet many of these people myself.  It really shows the Egyptians in a positive way.	2003-07-20
US	44731169	R1LWENIQT4LRAP	0385264704	320747623	Sugar Street (The Cairo Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	The Saga Continues	This is the third book in the Cairo Trilogy Series.  By all means, do NOT try to read this book without having read Palace Walk or Palace of Desire FIRST--it would be like tuning in to a movie in the last half hour.  <br />This book opens with the father and his wife in old age, in their 60's, their children in middle age, and the younger (third) generation entering their 20's.  It continues the interesting saga.  The book finishes shortly after both the father and his wife eventually die of old age.<br />This entire series is SLOW DRAMA (warning for those who like &quot;action&quot;), but one of the BEST pieces of literature I have ever read in my life.  I have lived in the Middle East for 11 years, and this entire series REALLY shows the Middle Eastern culture and way of thinking.	2003-07-17
US	44731169	R3HQ7T0CT2VM5F	0385264682	752216879	Palace of Desire: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 2 (Cairo Trilogy II)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Mahfouz a Master of Characterization	While this book could be read on it's own, I highly suggest reading Palace Walk first, as it is a sequel.  The reader really needs the background from the first book to fully appreciate this one.<br />This book opens with the father, Al Sayyid Ahmad Abd al Jawad, in middle age.  He,and his oldest son, Yasin continue their romantic escapades.  Kamal is hurt terribly in love.  This book absolutely deverves the Nobel Prize for Literature that it won, as you really feel with all of the characters.  Naguib Mahfouz is a master of characterization, and of many different types of characters.<br />If you have read and enjoyed Palace Walk, by all means, continue with Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street (third and last of the series of three).  You will NOT be disappointed.	2003-07-13
US	44731169	R1J7K1UDGL6D5J	B00007CWQM	278432801	The Nine Myths of Aging: Maximizing the Quality of Later Life	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Highly Recommended for Readers in Their 30's and 40's	This book does an excellent job of showing people how to age well.  It's best point is made on the very last page, when it points out, &quot;The odds are overwhelming that we will be 100 percent unsuccessful at those things we never attempt.&quot;<br />The author spends a chapter each disproving the following rumors: 1) Aging is Boring Subject, 2) All Old People Are Pretty Much the Same, 3) An Unsound Body Equals an Unsound Mind, 4) Memory is the First Thing to Go, 5) Use It or Lose It, 6) Old Dogs Can't Learn New Tricks, 7) Old People Are Isolated and Lonely,  8) Old People Are Depresses, and Have Every Right to Be, and 9) Wisdom Requires Being Smart and Elderly.<br />The author is a director of aging research at Harvard University, and he has written this book primarily for younger adults (30's and 40's) to plan for optimal aging, as well as for adults up into their 60's, 70's, and 80's.  <br />One of the MOST important points he makes is that blood pressure IN YOUNG ADULTHOOD (especially in the 30's and 40's) should be CAREFULLY MONITORED each year.  A jump of diastolic pressure of 10 points during this time period is a danger signal.  Most of the non-Alzheimer's adults who go downhill mentally are those who have had heart or circulatory problems, so one of his biggest points in the book is to do everything you can to avoid this particular problem, especially when you are YOUNG (in your 30's and 40's).<br />The only reason I have rated the book four stars instead of five is that some of the information he discusses was self-evident to me, and he did not include a chapter on how to maximize aging specifically for people who are already in poor health, or already frail in their 50's or 60's, such as having to be in a wheelchair, or use a walker, even at a relatively young age.	2003-07-09
US	44731169	R3G2JVVJ6QYY5E	9774240189	544586058	Wedding Song (Arabic and English Edition)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Confusing Stream-of-Consciousness	I have read several of Mahfouz's books, and in my opinion, this is NOT one of his best.  I do not enjoy stream-of-consciousness writing.  We read this book in our bookclub, and several of us found his writing style very confusing, necessitating continual re-reading to find out who is talking, and about whom, and to whom.  Nevertheless, the book is full of psychological implications, as it is four character's viewpoints about the same people and incidents.  This is Mahfouz at his worst, and most confusing.  If you want to read Mahfouz at his BEST, read instead The Cairo Trilogy.  The first book in that trilogy is one of the best books I have ever read, and that one is not written in the stream-of-consciousness style.	2003-06-23
US	44731169	R2I9E9W6WON2Y5	0380807416	145214890	Bitter Sugar: A Lupe Solano Mystery	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Meant to Be Enjoyed Like a Fine Wine	This first-person detective novel about private investigator Lupé Solano, set in Miami sometime after the Elian Gonzales affair, is a wonderful woman's FANTASY!!   I came across this book because I was specifically looking for books with WOMEN as the private investigators.  The exotic setting also attracted me.  This book has far exceeded my expectations-so much so, that I anticipate reading the book again and again.<br />I LOVED this book.  Lupé is a bright, intelligent young woman out of the Cuban community in Miami, who has become a private investigator, much to the chagrin of her conservative Cuban family.  The character is single, either late 20's or early 30's.  She tools around in a Mercedes, conducts half her meetings in lavish restaurants, and has dashingly handsome men coming in and out of her life like a revolving door!  This is what I mean by the book being a woman's fantasy.  This lightens up the book compared to other, male private investigator books.   It was a nice change from the PI books where the main character is barely making ends meet, and always dealing with one scruffy person after another.<br />I enjoy exotic settings and foreign cultures, and that made this book doubly enjoyable for me.  I learned a lot about the Cuban community in south Florida, and was quite favorably impressed!  I also learned about what it was like for the Cuban exiles before, during, and after they left Cuba, as well as how and why they left.<br />Lupé investigates a double-homicide with all sorts of interesting characters.  But she does it all in STYLE.  This book is definitely NOT a thriller, in terms of not being able to put it down.  It's a book to be read leisurely, and savored, page by page, just like a fine wine.  The first thing I'm going to do now is see if this author has written any more books for this character, as it appears to be first in a possible series.  If there are any more, I intend to buy every one!	2003-06-23
US	44731169	R3UGB588TXH962	055357485X	875569043	Children's Past Lives: How Past Life Memories Affect Your Child	Books	5	48	50	N	Y	Excellent Book About Children's Past Life Memories	Carol Bowman begins by relating the experiences she had with her own young son, who was hysterically afraid of loud noises, to introduce the reader to typical experiences that can happen before children are born, but to which they are reacting in this life.<br />The primary focus of this book is on helping children to overcome their phobias, especially when traditional psychotherapy fails to uncover a cause or solution.  The book is aimed both toward parents of children with phobias, and also just toward parents generally.<br />The only reason I am giving the book four stars, instead of five, is that I was already a believer in reincarnation and was looking for a book relating many, many cases of reincarnation. <br />While the book does present a reasonable number of cases, these are not the books primary focus.  The primary focus is toward parents who may never before have considered the possiblility of reincarnation.  The book spends a great deal of time discussing research by other eminent researchers (an EXCELLENT summary, by the way, for further reading), and giving guidelines toward how to tell the difference between which memories may be from past lives, vs. made-up fanatasies on the part of the child.  If you are a parent, and your child has any unexplained exceptional talents, odd behaviors, or phobias, this book is for you.  If, like me, you already believe in reincarnation, and you are looking for more actual cases to read about, I suggest you skip this book and go directly to Carols second book,  Return From Heaven, which is even better than this excellent book (and also includes her experiences with her own children).<br />Carol is perhaps the worlds current leading expert on this subject.<br />Anyone looking for this book on the British Amazon site, and finding limited availability, will find the book READILY available from the American site.	2003-06-22
US	44731169	R3VON4W21WY01I	0061007137	133209355	A Matter of Honor	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One of Archer�s Best Novels	As usual with Archer's books, I could not put this one down.  His thrillers are always terrribly exciting, but I especially enjoyed this one.  It is a novel about an ordinary person, who through certain circumstances, becomes drawn into international espionage through following up on a letter received as part of his father's will.  I read the entire thing in one day and evening, starting in the morning, and finishing at midnight.  And you won't be able to put it down either ! !	2003-06-21
US	44731169	R5WZB0LHJSWDM	1570715343	809915615	The Bully at Work: What You Can Do to Stop the Hurt and Reclaim Your Dignity on the Job	Books	5	146	153	N	Y	You're NOT Crazy---This Book Tells You What To DO	I suffered an incident of bullying at work for the past two years. In my case, I got things successfully resolved when one bully left of his own accord, and the other bully was stopped by senior management (I was fired, and senior management rehired me when I went over the bully's head). According to this book, this happens in only seven percent of cases. I feel very lucky. In my case, the only piece of the puzzle that was missing was WHY this happened to me, and this book really helped clarify that for me and bring the whole incident to closure.<br />I just found this book and read it, and if I had had it during the time all of this was going on, it would have helped me immensely. I experienced all of the behaviors described in this book, and I think the reasons given for the behavior are right on the mark. When my e-mail friends suggested the same reasons (before I read this book), I found them so far-fetched (such as perhaps I was making the bullies look bad through my competence-I said to myself, &quot;They are professional people; surely they are self-confident about their own work.&quot;) <br />This book looks at reasons for bullying, and who become targets for bullying behavior (how and why those targets are chosen). It discusses bullying in other European countries, as well as South Africa, and what progress legally has been made against passing laws against bullying in the workplace. These laws are compared with the legal progress/standing of the target in the United States. The book discusses health ramifications on the target, and all possible actions that can and should or should not be taken personally, and in the workplace. <br />If I had read this book MUCH sooner (such as when the bullying FIRST started), it would have helped me emotionally. I would have realized MUCH sooner what was happening, and known that I wasn't crazy. I could have fought back sooner, and would have known how, and which strategies to use. I also would have kept detailed recordsof each bullying incident, and I would have gotten witnesses' statements. In short, if you are even questioning yourself about whether bullying is happening to you, or not, BUY THIS BOOK.	2003-06-21
US	44731169	R2XP9A5UNIY7AB	0142000329	923667382	After You'd Gone	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Difficult Style to Read, but Well-Written	This book was a worthwhile read, even though I did not care for the style in which it was written.  Like so many new books these days, it is written in stream-of-conciousness style, jumping around in time, and in viewpoints of characters.  If you can get past that, it is a wonderful exploration of women's feelings and emotions-specifically, a woman, her mother, and her grandmother.  The book follows the romantic relationships of both the woman and her mother.  The main character is in a coma after being hit by a car.  She is in a Jewish-Gentile relationship.  I would recommend this book to women--a book by a woman, for women, about women (most men wouldn't relate to this book).  What I enjoyed about it most was that this author is extremely good at letting you feel all of the characters' emotions.  All of the characters were interesting, and most of them were likable.  You will definitely experience a lot of emotions reading this book.   It's a little confusing at first, but once you start reading, the book is hard to put down.	2003-06-21
US	44731169	R28E13T5IFRWFH	1558743669	817918233	A Child Called It: One Child's Courage to Survive	Books	4	2	2	N	N	His Mother Deserves the Death Penalty, or Life in Prison	Dave's mother was so incredibly abusive that I cannot even believe Dave survived, or that his mother didn't spend the rest of her life in prison.  The fact that Dave survived at all, much less went on to live a productive life (although he had a hard struggle) tells me that he was put on this earth and survived these hardships for a special reason-to help others through the same situation as an adult.<br />Arriving at the end of the book, I was gratified to learn that this was TRULY the second-worst case of child abuse ever on record in California-we can only imagine what the first worst case would have been.  I am so glad that Dave's one teacher was able to help him, recognize the situation, and actually get him out of that home.<br />This is one of the most horrendous books I have ever read, and if you are interested in child abuse cases, you should definitely get it.	2003-06-21
US	44731169	R1QBT4QRB7KCWZ	1570715343	809915615	The Bully at Work: What You Can Do to Stop the Hurt and Reclaim Your Dignity on the Job	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	You�re NOT Crazy---This Book Tells You What To DO	I suffered an incident of bullying at work for the past two years.  In my case, I got things successfully resolved when one bully left of his own accord, and the other bully was stopped by senior management (I was fired, and senior management rehired me when I went over the bully's head).  According to this book, this happens in only seven percent of cases.  I feel very lucky.  In my case, the only piece of the puzzle that was missing was WHY this happened to me, and this book really helped clarify that for me and bring the whole incident to closure.<br />I just found this book and read it, and if I had had it during the time all of this was going on, it would have helped me immensely.  I experienced all of the behaviors described in this book, and I think the reasons given for the behavior are right on the mark.  When my e-mail friends suggested the same reasons (before I read this book), I found them so far-fetched (such as perhaps I was making the bullies look bad through my competence-I said to myself, \\"They are professional people; surely they are self-confident about their own work.\\")  <br />This book looks at reasons for bullying, and who become targets for bullying behavior (how and why those targets are chosen).  It discusses bullying in other European countries, as well as South Africa, and what progress legally has been made against passing laws against bullying in the workplace.  These laws are compared with the legal progress/standing of the target in the United States.  The book discusses health ramifications on the target, and all possible actions that can and should or should not be taken personally, and in the workplace. <br /> If I had read this book MUCH sooner (such as when the bullying FIRST started), it would have helped me emotionally.  I would have realized MUCH sooner what was happening, and known that I wasn't crazy.  I could have fought back sooner, and would have known how, and which strategies to use.  I also would have kept detailed records of each bullying incident, and I would have gotten witnesses' statements.  In short, if you are even questioning yourself about whether bullying is happening to you, or not, BUY THIS BOOK.	2003-06-15
US	44731169	R5RAYMWQT166M	0375758992	837040016	Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight: An African Childhood	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Shocking, Vivid Memoir	Written as a series of stream-of-concsiousness stand-alone essays, but organized in a linear fashion, covering the period of time from the author's birth, through her marriage.  I live in Africa, which makes me appreciate the author's descriptions even more.  I have traveled extensively in both southern and central Africa, although I've never been to the locations described in the book.  Her descriptions are extremely vivid-after reading this book, I feel that I've been to these places, and experienced her life with her.    Nevertheless, I found her young life shocking in many ways.  The book also helped me understand the current political climate of Zimbabwe today, and the origin of why the blacks are dispossing the white farmers today.  A very good book.	2003-05-06
US	44731169	R3DI2EBIHXD45D	0029166764	772715860	Bad Blood: The Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment, New and Expanded Edition	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	A Shocking Medical Experiment in the American South	This book was excellent and informative.  However, readers should know that it is written in a research style, almost like a text book (sometimes putting the reader to sleep-and the reason I am only rating it four stars), as opposed to being written by an investigative reporter (and reading like a thriller).  The book is extremely well documented.  The author was intimately involved with helping lawyer Gray (Rosa Parks' lawyer) prosecute the case against the federal government, by providing much of the documentation given in this book.  He began work on the book while a student in Harvard's bioethics program in 1972, and only subsequently becoming involved with lawyer Gray.<br />The book is a complete history from the conception of the experiment, until its termination, including the viewpoints of ALL participants.  In addition to learning about the experiment itself, I learned a lot about life in the rural American South, which I had not previously known, and a lot about the disease of syphilis that I hadn't known.  Some examples:  I didn't know that 30-40 percent of blacks in the rural South were infected, nor that the disease crosses the placental barrier, which caused a lot of syphilitic babies.  The book includes pictures of syphilitic skin lesions, and discusses multiple complications of the late stages of the disease.<br />The book also delves into the moral and racial issues extensively.  There is an updated chapter at the end comparing the syphilis crisis to the AIDS crisis, and discusses why so many blacks are distrustful of doctors and hospitals-this experiment simply being one of the most recent examples of how this segment of our society as lied to, and taken advantage of.  <br />What was MOST shocking to me about this book was that I was born in 1955, and this experiment continued into the mid-1970's.  The FIRST time it was questioned on moral grounds was about 1962, and throughout the 60's, most doctors did not even QUESTION the morality!  The story was broken the same day as Sargent Shiver's having obtained psychiatric counseling-the latter story I heard about extensively, and the former not at all!  Before buying this book, I had never even heard of this medical experiment, and I just can't believe things like this were taking place IN <BR>THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA until the mid-1970's!!!	2003-05-04
US	44731169	R35SXZZGTD88NI	0385485581	482764031	Virus Hunter: Thirty Years of Battling Hot Viruses Around the World	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Not What I Was Expecting, But Still Excellent	This book was excellent; however, it was not quite what I had expected.  I bought it expecting it to read like The Hot Zone.  Instead, it turned out to be the autobiography of C.J. Peters, spanning his personal life and career in battling hot viruses.  It is a book of memoirs about his career.  It was interesting, but did drag a bit in places. It did NOT read like a thriller, as did The Hot Zone.  <br />I am still rating the book five stars, because the last two chapters were the best.  They sum up all that he has learned in his career, and make projections into the future.   He also discusses extensively throughout his book the political considerations and bureaucracy that all scientists have to deal with. The book was written several years ago, but his imaginary scenario sounds almost exactly like what is currently happening with the SARS virus.  He also discusses biological terrorism and chemical and biological warfare, and gives his thoughts about all these things from the perspective of all he has learned in his entire career.  These chapters are EXTREMELY pertinent to what is happening today.	2003-04-27
US	44731169	RAL942BZGVBRZ	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	2	7	18	N	N	I Wondered What the Point of This Book Was	I read this book as the monthly selection in my bookclub.  None of the characters were even likable, although they were less dislikable by the end.  I wondered what the point of this book was.  These were all such disfunctional people that I wondered WHY the author would want to write so extensively about them!  Did he come from a dysfunctional family himself, or has he known a lot of people from dysfunctional families?  He certainly describes them in exacting detail.  I didn't hate the book, but it is not one I would ever pick up on my own, or recommend to my friends.	2003-04-16
US	44731169	R3GXJ0959KXJ4K	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	One of the Most Exciting Books I've Ever Read	I have followed all of Diamond's numerous articles in Discover magazine over the years, and his articles are always my favorites.  When I first saw this book, I could hardly wait to get it.  It did not disappoint me.  <br />I found this book to be the culmination of Diamond's life-long research, leading into many scientific disciplines.  Starting out as a young linguist in New Guinea, a man there posed a question which Diamond could not answer, but never forgot--rephrased as, &quot;Why did wealth and power become distributed as they now are, rather than in some other way?&quot;  Thirty years of scientific study and experience later, Diamond answers that question in his book.  It is more or less his &quot;Concise History of the World Since the Dawn of Modern Humankind.&quot;<br />This book is extraordinary.  I did not actually start reading it at the beginning.  I skipped first to the section on the rise of food production, then returned read the earlier and later sections of the book.  While the book can be read cover-to-cover, it can also be read as a series of stand-alone articles, according to the reader's interest.  <br />Enough of the book's details are covered by other reviewers.  I am a historian, and wish that all universities gave students such a course as is in this book BEFORE moving on to a more traditional study of history.	2003-03-28
US	44731169	RHC828BIVKF88	0425155404	875458447	Invasion	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Read Cook's Novel &quot;Abduction&quot; Instead	This book was quite OK, but I did not enjoy it nearly as much as Cook's other novels, of which I have read many.  This book is more science fiction, but with a medical bent to it.  I think his book, &quot;Abduction&quot; was much better science fiction (which I rated five stars).  This particular book was, I felt, a modern-day version of &quot;Invasion of the Body Snatchers,&quot; and I couldn't get that thought out of my mind for the duration of the entire novel.  The characters are great, and believeable, and the plot was fine, just not as great as his other books.	2003-03-07
US	44731169	R6NXMWI4KHBBG	0452275962	9548456	Plus Style: The Plus-Size Guide to Looking Great	Books	5	72	72	N	Y	Best Book on Style--WHATEVER Your Size	I bought this book some months ago, and it sat on my shelf until the other day, when I picked it up.  It was SO good that I finished it in two days.  I only wish I had read it sooner!  <br />This author writes very clearly, and in an interesting, readable style.  The color photos of plus-sized models are FANTASTIC.  The drawings and diagrams included in the book are extremely informative and helpful.  I learned so many things in this book.  For example, the reason many plus-sized clothes in stores (or sewn from certain patterns) don't fit is that they are not designed for the TRUE shapes of plus-sized bodies-they are just sized up by two inches from sizes designed for small-sized bodies.  Also, when ordering from many catalogs, they give various measurements (such as arm length or hip), for which I have never quite figured out PRECISELY where to measure.  This book explains VERY precisely and exactly IN PLAIN ENGLISH, in a clear way that leaves no ambiguity.  Now I feel really confident taking ALL my measurements, for the first time ever.  <br />Aside from all I learned, the three MOST useful things, to me, in this book were as follows.  First, I thought I knew how to put outfits together before I read this book.  But this book taught me SO much more than I had known before.  For example, it discusses how to put together a lot of things I had never even considered, such as two different patterns in the same outfit-how to tell which ones could be worn together, and which ones couldn't.  Second, it presents the idea of \\"capsules\\"-not claiming the credit for this idea, but showing HOW PRECISELY to plan your wardrobe on a long-term basis, and how to intelligently decide what pieces you need to tie everything together.  It suggests you get out your EXISTING clothes, AND A NOTEBOOK (I had never thought about using a notebook before, and it REALLY made a difference).  You also get out all of your accessories, such scarves.  Then, you systematically evaluate, for each piecein your wardrobe, what different combinations you can wear together, and WRITE THEM DOWN in the notebook-all the different possibilities.  I didn't have time to get out my whole wardrobe in one day.  But I did start with three or four skirts/dresses.  I had one scarf I had received as a gift several years ago, and always loved, but had never figured out what to wear it with, or how to wear it.  This scarf has a pattern of bright red, turquoise, and purple-kind of odd colors together.  Following these suggestions,  I suddenly discovered that a purple dress I had purchased recently was the same purple as in this scarf, and I remembered I had a turquoise turtleneck that I had also not really found anything to wear with for several years.  I put the three together (even though I never would have DREAMED previously of putting together purple and turquoise), and suddenly, I had a smashing outfit.  I wore it the same afternoon and got compliments from four separate people!  Now I can hardly wait to go through the rest of my wardrobe with the same technique.  By using the notebook technique, you can figure out EXACTLY what you NEED in your existing wardrobe to tie certain outfits together (for example, a red blouse, or a scarf with certain colors).  Then you can go shopping intelligently for those particular items, instead of buying things on impulse, and finding you don't have the right things to go with them.  She also discusses the concept of  \\"cost-per-wearing.\\"  When you get things to go together in outfits, you wear them more often, and they don't sit expensively in your closet, seldom worn.  Something else may have been expensive to buy, but if you end up wearing it all the time, then the cost-per-wearing is low-in other words, you are really getting your \\"money's worth\\" out of the piece.  The third really helpful resource was the 19-page appendix at the back, listing clothing resources for the plus-sized woman (for UK readers, these are USA locations, but many/mostcan be found on the internet, and do mail-order business).  My only criticism of the whole book was that while the author did list names, addresses and phone numbers, she did not list web site addresses, leaving the reader to search for those on her own.  However, I was able to find the ones I needed right away.  I would not have been able to find them had I not seen them listed in this book.<br />In summary, while is the best book I have ever seen for plus-sized women and fashion, I feel it is also one of the best books I have EVER seen on ANY SIZED-women's fashion.  No matter what your size, you can benefit from this book.  Enjoy!!!	2003-02-16
US	44731169	R1YJY5DRR7W3EA	0563551003	872564027	New British Classics	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Best Cookbook Iï¿½ve Seen in 20 Years	I am an American who owns over 300 cookbooks, and I consider myself a gourmet cook.   On a recent trip to Britain, I scoured bookstores and chose this book over all the others.  Im glad I did. I have to say, this is absolutely the BEST cookbook I have come across in the past 20 years.  <br />This book is not as comprehensive as The Joy of Cooking, which tries to tell you how to cook absolutely everything under the sun.  But this book IS inclusive of  everything thats important in classic British Cooking (and in traditional American cooking, as well)soups, sauces, cheese and eggs, vegetables, fish, meat, poultry, picnics, puddings, cakes and baking, and preserves and pickles.  In addition, it has chapters on The Great British Breakfast, Savories and Snacks,  Sunday Lunch Roasts, A Festive Christmas, and Afternoon and High Tea.<br />As an American, I learned SO much from this book.  I learned about the ORIGIN of bacon and eggs for breakfasts, about the histories of many different vegetables (quite different information than is included in The Joy of Cooking), HOW and WHY British cuisine got a reputation for being bland (it wasnt always so), and many things about the history of eating which have just been plainly lost to us in America.  For example, I did not know before that the origin of certain foods sometimes being served on a piece of toast was from the trenchers used in medieval times--trenchers being big slabs of bread which were laid directly on the table, and food put on top.   The reason for the use of trenchers was that plates were too expensive for ordinary people to use.  Not only are so many interesting discussions about the origins of different foods and customs included in this book, but ALL the recipies are interesting and FANTASTIC!  <br />British readers will enjoy the depth and style of this book, while American readers will really learn a lot about the origin of our own traditional cuisine.   I will treasure this book for many years. I am buying four more copies to give as gifts this Christmas.  I bought the paperback edition.  This book is so wonderful and will be used for so many years, that I highly recommend to other readers to spend the extra money and get a hardcover edition, if it is available.	2002-12-06
US	44731169	R1PZMQ6V9LGMEG	0375504079	996247242	Teacher: The One Who Made the Difference	Books	1	4	11	N	Y	Boring, Rambling, Poorly-Written Memoir	I am a teacher and a writer, and I had so looked forward to this book.  What a disappointment!  This book is NOT really about the TEACHER who made the diffference to this writer (as I had expected).  It is a coming-of-age story about this author.  This story might mean something to anyone who experienced a similar coming of age (thug-turned-professor), but I'm afraid it meant very little to me.  It was all I could do to FORCE myself to keep reading it, and by the end, I felt that I had completely wasted my time and my money.  In my opinion, don't waste your money on this book.	2002-12-05
US	44731169	RGILWHU6EGN2F	0345449347	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	3	0	0	N	N	An Immature Journalist "Grows Up" and Becomes Responsible	I enjoyed this book enough to read it in a single day, but I don't find myself thinking much about it since I finished it.<br />It is the story of an immature journalist who grows up and transforms toward the end of the book.  The book focuses heavily, but realistically, on the main character's sex life.  He actually highly reminded me of someone I used to know, years ago, in his experiences.  He could have been that person talking, in his experiences with women.  I would not recommend this book to anyone who might be offended by reading continuously about the main character's sex life.  Nevertheless, this is not really what the book is ABOUT.  It's about the growth and transformation of the main character.<br />I did find the main character interesting, and the minor characters were also quite interesting.  I enjoyed the book, but it's probably not one I would recommend to my friends.	2002-12-01
US	44731169	R1UZ3NX78VOW14	042517736X	459587507	Abduction	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Best Piece of Science Fiction I've Read in Years	I picked this book up, expecting another medical thriller by one of my favorite authors.  Instead, I found myself gripping the arms of my chair, transported down through the ocean floor and through a volacanic vent.  I literally could not put the book down.  I started it late one afternoon, read until 10 PM, got up very early, and finished it before breakfast.  I have loved every one of Robin Cooks's books, but this one was by far the MOST exciting I've read.  I loved science fiction as a kid, but have been generally disappointed with many science fiction novels as an adult.  Now that I've finished it, I literally can't stop thinking about it.  This is a marvelous first novel breaking out of the medical thriller genre.  It seems to me that most of the people who were disappointed with this book prefer the \\"realism\\" of a medical thriller--the enjoyment of this novel, while written very realistically, depends upon  a \\"suspension of disbelief\\" as to the characters' circumstances.  Lastly--the ending does not disappoint.  It is reasonable, believable, and satisfying.	2002-11-23
US	44731169	R1BH2OCCVZYMDR	0863696503	736394552	A Bike Ride: 12,000 Miles Around the World	Books	4	21	22	N	N	54-Year-Old Historian Cycles Around the World	This was an inspirational book, written by a historian. I enjoyed the book. <BR>However, I was disappointed with the book in one way. The author speaks mainly as a historian, taking the reader on a historical tour of all of the places she visted on her bike. Even by the end of the book, we know very little about the author herself, or her personal feelings. There are several very poor, black-and-white photos of places she visited, but there is not even one photo of her! I would have preferred one photo of her, with her bicycle, anywhere, than all of the other photos she included in the book. I would also have liked her to share more of her personal life with the reader, which she seems to have purposely avoided (In the chapter where she travels through the American Midwest, she comments that Americans seem to discuss their personal problems even with strangers, but indicates that she feels that is an oddity. I found that an interesting comment on American culture, and probably very true, when compared with other cultures, especially the British culture.)<br />This one issue aside, I found the book inspiring, for a woman of her age, and poor physical condition (at the outset) to have cycled around the world. I read with great interest her descriptions of the people's behavior (both toward her and toward each other) in various places. I was quite surprised by her descriptions of Pakistanis, Indians, and various Americans (as an American myself). I was both surprised and not surprised by her travels across America--it being the hardest place because of the vast, empty distances (particularly in the West). <br />Disappointingly, the author shared only a few minor details of her life. I am quite a history buff myself, but this book rather overdosed on history. Nevertheless, I did pick up a few interesting historical tidbits. For example, I found it quite interesting that her cycling through Italy was far easier than many other places (in spite of the mountains) because the Romans constructed their roads in such a way as to try to never give up height before reaching the highest point. Therefore, the route gradually climbed, whereas in newer areas (such as America), modern roads repeatedly climb and fall, making it much harder on a cyclist.	2002-11-17
US	44731169	RH4O039V4RMZA	0440503396	441879858	Clutter Control: Putting Your Home on a Diet	Books	5	95	95	N	Y	Highly Motivating, Short, and To the Point!	This has to be one of the BEST and MOST MOTIVATING books I have ever read.  This is a short, easy-to-read book.  I read it in one day.  This author REALLY UNDERSTANDS the problem of people like me who are &quot;pack-rats,&quot; and WHY we are pack-rats.  He tackles the problem from this point of view.  <br />The very next day, after reading the book, I was able to organize my entire office.  I am now involved in packing for a home move, and for the first time in years, I am making progress on knowing what to save, and what to get rid of.  This book helped me TREMENDOUSLY in making these decisions.  And it provides precise, practical suggestions for how to go about it step-by-step, so that you get rid of the problem of being entirely overwhelmed and not knowing where to start.<br />If clutter is disturbing your life, then THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU.	2002-11-10
US	44731169	R3EYFFYJ2GUR32	0688172377	787268588	Desert Flower: The Extraordinary Journey of a Desert Nomad	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This Book Has An Important Message	I don't think it matters that this book is not &quot;world-class&quot; literature.  Waris Dirie has a wonderful story, full of hardship, striving, and pain. But due to her continual striving, she has made a success of her life, in spite of the odds. <BR>Her experiences meant something to me. One of the most vivid was the description of her circumcision in the bush. This is an inspiring book, showing what can be accomplished with fortitude and a positive attitude.	2002-11-10
US	44731169	R3M7S3Q6JLD1ZY	006100717X	405929935	A Twist in the Tale	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Short Stories with Unexpected Endings	I am a big fan of Jeffrey Archer.  I love his long novels and deep characterizations.  This book was a bit different for me.  When I first purchased it, I didn't know it was a collection of short stories.  After reading the first story, I left it sitting by my beside for several weeks, then picked it up and read the rest in two days.  The only reason I set it aside was that it surprised me when the first story ended--that's when I discovered it was a book of short stories.  (I enjoy Jeffrey Archer so much that I bought it quickly, just looking at his name on the cover, passing through an airport, not noticing this book was not a novel like all his others.)<br />Most of these stories can be read in 30 minutes, while the first story might take one hour.  The book is very appropriately named, because the very end of each story has a bizarrre &quot;twist&quot; that you don't expect.  The twist happens literally in the last sentence or two of each story, and the reader is completely surprised.  <br />Compared to most novels, these stories move incredibly fast.  In spite of that, characterization is revealed well, as the stories move.  There is quite a variety in the stories presented--in one story, he even writes as a woman.  I highly enjoyed this book.  Anyone who enjoys either short stories, or loves Jeffrey Archer's novels will enjoy it, too.  The only reason I have rated it four stars instead of five, is that I personally enjoy novels much more than short stories-short stories end far too quickly for me.	2002-11-10
US	44731169	R14EJ5KCIE6QP1	0679776591	578664297	Fugitive Pieces: A Novel	Books	2	10	20	N	N	Some Pasages Interesting, But Hard to Follow	I found parts of this book quite interesting, especially the parts taking place in Greece.  <br />About two-thirds the way through, I suddenly found myself reading without the book making sense.  I had to ask someone else who was reading the book at the same time, if she was as confused as I was.  My friend explained that they had changed characters.  I went back and re-read, but still found the trasition from one character's story to another very unclear.  I felt annoyed and disappointed, as I had become involved in the first character's story, and I never did come to care about the second character.<br />Overall, this book did have some interesting passages.  But I'm afraid I personally found the book far too &quot;literary&quot; in style, and very confusing.  I am a professional person with a Master's Degree, yet this book made me feel really stupid.  I felt confused and lost as to what was happening, and it was a real struggle for me to finish the book after the author switched characters.	2002-10-13
US	44731169	R30H8GYRGNFJ8Q	0712684689	854098285	The Lucifer Network	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fast-Paced Action in an African and European Setting	The reviewer from Singapore has given an excellent summary of the book, to which I can add little.<br />This book was so fast-paced and gripping that I read the whole thing in a single sitting (albeit an all-day-long one)!  This book was a complete change from some of Jeffrey Archer's previous novels.  (His previous novels are generally pitting two titans against one another in a lifelong conflict.)  <br />This story reminds me a bit of Wilbur Smith's African books, but with slightly less character development and more fast-paced action.  (I do find Archer's writing to have masterful character development.)  This is a fast-paced action book, with some romance added to the plot.  The main character is an M16 agent, which I found extremely appealing.	2002-10-13
US	44731169	R2J43441H9Y6O2	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ecology, Relationships, and Sex	The other reviews of this book are so good, thoughtful, and complete, that I don't have much left to add!  <br />This book is about ecology, biology, relationships, feelings, and sex.  The book consists of three intersperced love stories-all three incredibly sensuous, intertwined with ecological themes (the author is trained as a biologist).  This book was completely different from the Poisonwood Bible, an an easier read in terms of enjoyment.  I loved the Poisonwood Bible, but it also disturbed me.   This book was pure pleasure.  I did have the feeling that this book might be too slow-paced for many men.  It deals mostly with the intricacies of relationships between the characters, and their feelings.  <br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book, and highly recommend it.	2002-09-08
US	44731169	R36D8XAIENVCXE	1841154008	617072717	Branson	Books	5	20	23	N	N	A Smiling Assassin--Meticulously Researched	This is one of the most shocking books I have ever read.  Shocking not only in its content, but also in absoutely trashing my formerly favorable opinion of Branson-not just once, but over and over, practically beating my mind to a pulp.<br />I picked up this book on a recent trip to London.  I'd always had a favorable impression of Richard Branson, so I decided to buy one of his biographies.  I noticed several different ones for sale.  I chose this one for two reasons.  The other biographies  were AUTHORIZED and VETTED by Branson.  This one claims to be objective, but unauthorized, and explains why this is so, very thoroughly.  The book is written by an investigative historian and journalist, and is METICULOULY researched, with pages of sources sited.  The book has been gone through with a fine-toothed comb by the publisher's lawyers, who have already vetted the book.  Every single thing reported in this book can be completely and thoroughly substantiated.<br />So what does this shocking book say?  Branson's high school teacher predicted he'd either end up very rich, or in jail.  He very nearly did end up in jail in his early career.  He basically takes advantage of everyone, hiding behind his supposedly altruistic motives, while his real motives are to rip off everyone he can, having built an empire equivalent to a house of cards.  Before I read this book, I would have liked to meet him.  Now I feel he's absolute poison, and he completely revolts me.  He apparently jumps into bed with every possible girl, but doesn't even have the decency to pay their cab fair home.  After enticing star-struck girls into bed, he apparently tells his friends that he wakes up in the morning and says, \\"Who the f*** is this in my bed?\\" (direct quote from the book).  Just as former empires around the world were built on the back of slave labor, so he treats his employees.  He gives the public image of \\"fun\\" while absolutely breaking his poor employees' backs-and he has gotten a lot worse with his employees' treatment as the years went on.  Furthermore, his is an empire built on sand, that could continually collapse at any moment.  He knows little about running business, and doesn't like detail.  Most of his businesses lose money, but he has a couple that bring in the cash to keep the others afloat, with a team of accountants who continually shuffle the money around.  Surprisingly, this book does admit that he has some strengths.  These include hiring good people around him to take care of all the details and run his businesses (since he can't, and isn't interested).  But in the end, because he doesn't pay these people well or treat them well, they leave him, and he can only attract mediocre talent-one cause of the Virgin brand not being of good quality.  His real strengths are in deal-making and self-promotion.  His balloon trips are all \\"stunts\\" to attract publicity to himself and the Virgin brand, in a way that is far less expensive than advertising would be (he basically doesn't advertise, and considers it a big waste of money).  He keeps expenses down, skims off the cash, and keeps it offshore to avoid British taxes.  And he lies, lies, lies, all the time.  According to this book, he's a poison pirate.  I was reminded continually while reading this book of the old quotation, \\"It's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to get into heaven.\\"  I have nothing at all against rich people, but in the case of Richard Branson, this quote seems very appropriate.<br />This book is not a quick read.  I could only absorb about 20 pages at a time.  If you are interested in Richard Branson, you should definitely read this book.se with his employees' treatment as the years went on.  Furthermore, his is an empire built on sand, that could continually collapse at any moment.  He knows little about running business, and doesn't like detail.  Most of his businesses lose money, but he has a couple that bring in the cash to keep the others afloat, with a team of accountants who continually shuffle the money around.   Surprisingly, this book does admit that he has some strengths.  These include hiring good people around him to take care of all the details and run his businesses (since he can't, and isn't interested).  But in the end, because he doesn't pay these people well or treat them well, they leave him, and he can only attract mediocre talent-one cause of the Virgin brand not being of good quality.  His real strengths are in deal-making and self-promotion.  His balloon trips are all \\"stunts\\" to attract publicity to himself and the Virgin brand, in a way that is far less expensive than advertising would be (he basically doesn't advertise, and considers it a big waste of money).  He keeps expenses down, skims off the cash, and keeps it offshore to avoid British taxes.  And he lies, lies, lies, all the time.  According to this book, he's a poison pirate.  I was reminded continually while reading this book of the old quotation, \\"It's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to get into heaven.\\"  I have nothing at all against rich people, but in the case of Richard Branson, this quote seems very appropriate.<br />This book is not a quick read.  I could only absorb about 20 pages at a time.  If you are interested in Richard Branson, you should definitely read this book.	2002-09-05
US	44731169	RMXL4FIDE8YVH	0345386825	255418636	Calculated Risk	Books	5	15	20	N	N	A Romantic, Financial Thriller-Fantasy	This is a wonderful book which will probably appeal more to women than to men.  <br />I especially enjoyed this book as my background is in banking, as is the main character's.  I am an American woman, who started as a stockbroker back in the 1970's, when there were few women in the brokerage and banking areas.  This book reminds me of what women went through in that time, especially with the &quot;old boys' club&quot; and &quot;glass ceiling&quot; types of problems.  Yet this character is able to overcome all of that and pull off an incredibly thrilling finanacial caper.  In the background, a romance develops with an absolutely dazzling, incredible man. So many incredible things happen in this book that it absolutely has to be termed a fantasy in addition addition to being a romantic financial thriller.<br />A thoroughly enjoyable &quot;escape&quot; book for every woman who has ever worked in business (or who has ever been frustrated by men's behavior in business).  This is the first book I have read by this author, and I hope to read more!	2002-08-24
US	44731169	R59PNWV88WQU8	0679459626	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I Enjoyed It as Much as His Earlier Novels	Several reviewers allude to some recent novels that have not been up-to-par.  I live overseas and haven't had an opportunity to read all of his intervening novels, but have read five or six of his books, and liked all of them.<br />This particular book, I enjoyed as much as his early books.  I love reading about Alex and Milo's investigations.  Just as I have aged, they have aged also.  I like that, because the characters have grown.  Robin is still with Alex, but is post-menopausal, while Alex and Milo are also getting into middle age, and aren't so impetuous as when they were younger.  Perhaps the people giving negative reviews of this book haven't yet reached middle age themselves and can't yet appreciate this fact.  I was very surprised at the negative reviews.  What I loved most about this book is that when Alex gets involved in the investigations, he goes about things as would any ordinary citizen, except that he gets a few better ideas than I would.  But I can imagine myself in his place, doing what he does, making the same mistakes he makes.  Except that I could never really do it--it's just wishful thinking on my part.  As a reader, it's easy to step into Alex's shoes.  I enjoyed the story.  I read it in two days, and had trouble putting it down.	2002-08-16
US	44731169	R3V7FAP4Y9EJD7	0345449126	524153803	Take Me With You: A Round-the-World Journey to Invite a Stranger Home	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Keeps Me Thinking for Weeks After Reading	I have traveled myself around-the-world, and to over 85 countries, in addition to living overseas for 10 years.  I wish I could have read Brad's book BEFORE traveling, and I would have used some of his ideas in talking to people.  But whether you are a world traveler, or never travel anywhere, he has such interesting conversations and insights.  Reading this book could change your life.  Now that I've finished it, I plan to re-read it again very soon, as well as choose it in my bookclub next time my turn comes around.  One of the best books I've ever read.  I just can't stop thinking about it.	2002-08-14
US	44731169	R3IINZ2Q283QXO	055380121X	144975997	The Wisdom of Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing During the Change	Books	4	44	50	N	Y	Not What I Expected, But Still and Excellent Book	I do understand why some people have rated this book only one star. The book gets into a lot of areas outside of mainstream medicine. However, I felt most of what she had to say was medically sound. If you are looking for a book that gives only AMA-approved advice, this is NOT the book for you. <br />I think this book is actually quite valuable. Who would benefit from it most are people who want BOTH AMA-approved advice, AND who want to consider things like herbal remedies, acupuncture, and other natural treatments. These discussions are particularly valuable for anyone who cannot take traditional hormone treatments for various reasons--such as if you have deep vein thrombosis (which I do). She covers alternative therapies very well, in depth, and from the perspective of a physician who has had many years experience in trying these natural therapies with patients, and with herself. So, here you can get a POSITIVE physician's viewpoint on alternative therapies. Yes, it's true she discusses her personal life, and I personally enjoyed those parts. It's also true that she sometimes gets readings from Tarot cards, but if something comes out of them, she always checks into those areas which have come up in the readings with traditional medical tests and treatments. If you're not into &quot;nurturing your fibroid,&quot; or tarot cards, just ignore those parts of the book. Ignoring these parts was not a problem for me. The important thing is, this book is NOT trying to convert people to new-age treatments. It is seriously discussing a number of alternative therapies, from a medical standpoint, that MANY people have already been using on their own for many years--but these people can't find any doctor who will seriously discuss the merits and demerits of any of these treatments. Furthermore, she DOESN'T concentrate ONLY on these alternative therapies--she discusses all the traditional therapies very well. <br />Should you buy this book? If you are the type of person who is only comfortable with traditional medical advice, you will NOT like this book. Buy another one. If you are someone who is looking for a SERIOUS discussion of alternative therapies, you will think this book is wonderful. I fall primarily in the former camp, but am also open to the latter camp for consideration. I found the book very useful, and felt it was well worth the money I spent on it. The main reason being that it discussed SO MANY MORE aspects of menopause than I ever would have dreamed of thinking about!! It is not a book you can sit down and read cover-to-cover. It has to be read slowly, and digested. After reading this book and another one, I went to see my doctor with a list of pre-prepared questions, and he said I was the best-informed patient he had ever had (here in Morocco). I suggest that you DO buy this book, but you might want one or two other books which cover different aspects of the menopause transition. The other book I chose was a paperback called &quot;The Silent Passage,&quot; and between the two books, I feel very satisfied.	2002-06-23
US	44731169	R3GBS933W9U3WC	0553812181	439166186	Desert Royal	Books	3	6	22	N	N	Princess Sultanna's Third Book......	This princess is the biggest spoiled brat I've ever seen.  And she seems to have gotten even more spoiled than in her first two books!  However, she does have some interesting things to say, and some more horrifying tales of how women are treated in Saudi Arabia.  Still an excellent read for anyone interested in the life of women in Arab countries.  I live in Morocco, and want to assure people that women are treated far better here.	2002-05-03
US	44731169	RWBZH91138GST	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Simplistic, But Excellent Advice	When I started this book, it seemed very simplistic, although written in an engaging style.  I thought what he had to say was interesting, but didn't feel it was going to tell me anything I didn't know.  But the more I read, the better I thought the book was.  By the time I finished it, it really did help me  and motivate me to change my circumstances.  He doesn't tell you what to DO in this book, although he does give plenty of examples of what he did for you to think about.  What this book is trying to do is to change your METHOD OF THINKING.  And it really succeeds, as far as I'm concerned.  He reminds me a lot of some very successful people I know in real estate, the way he thinks and talks.	2002-05-02
US	44731169	R3VPGVLBKBKWA9	0840734247	858312016	A Skeleton in God's Closet	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A Religious, Archaeological Mystery-Thriller	I really enjoyed this book. I picked it up because I'm interested in historical fiction, and the cover caught my eye.  When I first read the book three years ago, I found it really gripping, and wished I had someone to discuss the story with.  I decided to pick it for my bookclub this month, and just re-read it in anticipation of our discussion.  I finished the whole thing in a day, and it was as good as I had remembered.  Personally, I did not think the love interest detracted from the story, and I thought it was handled in a very appropriate way.  I think the author has really done a good job of imagining all the things that could realistically happen if Jesus' bones were discovered, and I liked the intrigue the main character had to go through to solve the mystery.  I would highly recommend this novel to anyone interested in archeology, historical novels, or religious themes.	2002-05-02
US	44731169	R1VR4IX099JW5R	0345391055	782303291	Disclosure	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Characterization Very True-to-Life	This novel was very true-to-life, similar in many ways to my own experiences in the corporate world.  I bought this book just on the author's name, as I enjoyed so many of his other books.  I didn't even bother to look and see what it was about before buying it (I was in a hurry).  The subject matter surprised me.  It really makes you stop and think.  The main character seems so believeable, as do all the other characters--except Meredith, who is so far over the top!  Yet, I HAVE known women like that in the corporate world.  I was in the brokerage business for many years, and found all the characters very realistic.  Anyway, to my surprise, at the end of the book, I found this novel was closely based on a true story, and the end tells what happened subsequently to each character.  I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about business intrigue.  I read the whole thing in two days.  It was hard to put down.	2002-04-30
US	44731169	R39IZS9MI8ZS1I	1567184995	575199408	Destiny of Souls: New Case Studies of Life Between Lives	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Excellent, But Read Journey of Souls First	Since the reviewers below have done such an excellent job of summarizing the book's important points, I won't.  But even though this book was very interesting, and can be read on its own, there were several references to material contained in his first book, Journey of Souls, which made me wish I had read it first.  If you haven't already read Journey of Souls, my advice would be to order these two books together, and read that one first.	2002-04-23
US	44731169	RNZZXIXRUZBJ	1561580368	28636101	Building for a Lifetime: The Design and Construction of Fully Accessible Ho	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	The BEST Book ANYONE Can Read Before Building Their Own Home	I got this book because I was planning to build a house which I want to be accessible for future years.  This book was really more than I bargained for.  I think EVERYONE should read this book before designing their home, even if they think they don't care about needs for future years.  One of the best features of this book is that it points out where required accessibilty, or accessibility standards are often completely insufficient--probably because they were developed by able-bodied people.  They have now done a lot of research on what gives people trouble, and improvements on the required standards that are far better.  This book covers every aspect and room of your home, inside and outside.  It is well-written, in plain English, with plenty of pictures and drawings that are EASY to comprehend.  This book is expensive, but well-worth every penny.	2002-04-20
US	44731169	R26H7LYSWUOKGP	042517638X	938105645	Godplayer	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Don' Listen to the Negative Reviews of This Book	I just finished this book and found it every bit as much of a page-turner as his other books.  For me, it wasn't a problem that I was able to guess the ending in advance.  I really enjoy seeing how Cook has his characters think and behave in all of his novels.  The main character thinks and acts very much like someone I used to know, and I really enjoyed the novel for that reason, too.	2002-04-16
US	44731169	R3OBO0T2NUXX77	0385264666	603947329	Palace Walk: The Cairo Trilogy, Volume 1	Books	5	147	155	N	Y	An Excellent Introduction to Egyptian Culture	Twelve years ago, I spent several months living in Egypt.  I am an American woman, and at that time, I found much of the culture and behavior of Egyptians to be confusing.  Since that time, I have married a Moroccan, and have lived in Morocco for the past ten years.  I now feel that I understand much about Arab culture.  <br />Just recently, a friend recommended I read the Cairo trilogy.  I began with Palace Walk, and haven't yet read the others.  This book is SUPERB.  Westerners have trouble understanding how Middle Easterners THINK.  This book is so wonderful because it takes you inside the mind of each of the characters, in turn, chapter-by-chapter, showing you how each one of them thinks, and allowing you to see their motivations for their behavior.  One person commmented in their book review that the majority of the book concentrated on the male characters.  There is a reason for this.  Egyptian society is mostly about men, not about women.  Even as the society modernizes, the THINKING stays the same.  Mahfuz has done a masterful character study of each character in the book, as they go therough their daily lives.  Without yet having read the two subsequent books, I expect that I will get more in depth into the women's lives in Sugar Street, because this is the house to which the two female daughters have moved upon their marriages to two brothers.<br />In the past, I have tried to read some other books by this author, and just couldn't get into them.  These books are different.  They really do merit the Nobel Prize.  Reading them now, after being immersed in the Arab culture for 12 years, I see so many more things than I would have noticed had I read the books first.  But living in this culture, I can see how accurate they are, and how the men really DO behave and think like the characters in these books!  Aside from the all this, the story line is wonderful, too.  I had trouble putting the book down after having read the first few pages.  I recommend these books to anyone who would really like to understand the Middle Eastern culture.	2002-04-13
US	44731169	RQ4LE4L7GZAK3	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Science Fiction Time Travel Historical Thriller	My title says just how I would characterize this book.  I really enjoy historical novels.  This one was combined with the urgency of a thriller, and a plausible-enough senario for time travel that the reader can accept.  This book was a bit different from Chrichton's other books, but still an excellent page-turner.  If you have enjoyed Crichton's other books, or if you enjoy historical novels, you should enjoy this one too.	2002-04-13
US	44731169	R2249CWJJ2K526	0425119653	667355645	Mutation	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Excellent Novel of Robin Cook's	I really enjoyed this book, and read the whole thing in one day.  It's the story of a scientist who genetically engineers his own son to have a far superior intelligence, and the horrific complications that arrive from it. One of the most enjoyable facets of the book are that the characters are all too human, just as people in the ordinary world, and it shows the impact of their human foibles on this story.  This is the sixth of his novels that I've read, and he's one of my favorite authors.	2002-04-12
US	44731169	R1TX9HYOJQ232P	0425174204	872231482	Fever	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Ecology/Medical Thriller	Robin Cook is one of my favorite authors.  I enjoyed this book as much as all of his others.  He's created a doctor/researcher who almost breaks down after an incredible number of problems are thrown at him.  He's impulsive, but reacts as any of us might under the same pressures.  I read the whole thing in one day, unable to put it down.  As a mother, I found what happened to his daughter so shocking that I was both horrified by the book, yet unable to put it down.  If you have a horror of sick children, you might want to choose another one of his books.  But even if this bothers you, I will just say that the ending does justify reading the book.	2002-04-12
US	44731169	R1OCCRQAZKME1W	0425119653	667355645	Mutation	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Excellent Novel of Robin Cook's	I really enjoyed this book, and read the whole thing in one day.  It's the story of a scientist who genetically engineers his own son to have a far superior intelligence, and the horrific complications that arrive from it. One of the most enjoyable facets of the book are that the characters are all too human, just as people in the ordinary world, and it shows the impact of their human foibles on this story.  This is the sixth of his novels that I've read, and he's one of my favorite authors.	2002-04-12
US	44731169	R7ORQOTGO318Q	055380121X	144975997	The Wisdom of Menopause: Creating Physical and Emotional Health and Healing During the Change	Books	4	374	383	N	Y	Not What I Expected, But Still an Excellent Book	I do understand why some people have rated this book only one star.  The book gets into a lot of areas outside of mainstream medicine.  However, I felt most of what she had to say was medically sound.  If you are looking for a book that gives only  AMA-approved advice, this is NOT the book for you.  <br />I think this book is actually quite valuable.  Who would benefit from it most are people who want BOTH AMA-approved advice, AND who want to consider things like herbal remedies, acupuncture, and other natural treatments.  These discussions are particularly valuable for anyone who cannot take traditional hormone treatments for various reasons--such as if you have deep vein thrombosis (which I do).  She covers alternative therapies very well, in depth, and from the perspective of a physician who has had many years experience in trying these natural therapies with patients, and with herself.  So, here you can get a POSITIVE physician's viewpoint on alternative therapies.  Yes, it's true she discusses her personal life, and I personally enjoyed those parts.  It's also true that she sometimes gets readings from Tarot cards, but if something comes out of them, she always checks into those areas which have come up in the readings with traditional medical tests and treatments.  If you're not into &quot;nurturing your fibroid,&quot; or tarot cards, just ignore those parts of the book.  Ignoring these parts was not a problem for me.  The important thing is, this book is NOT trying to convert people to new-age treatments.  It is seriously discussing a number of alternative therapies, from a medical standpoint, that MANY people have already been using on their own for many years--but these people can't find any doctor who will seriously discuss the merits and demerits of any of these treatments.  Furthermore, she DOESN'T concentrate ONLY on these alternative therapies--she discusses all the traditional therapies very well.  <br />Should you buy this book?  If you are the typeof person who is only comfortable with traditional medical advice, you will NOT like this book.  Buy another one.  If you are someone who is looking for a SERIOUS discussion of alternative therapies, you will think this book is wonderful.  I fall primarily in the former camp, but am also open to the latter camp for consideration.  I found the book very useful, and felt it was well worth the money I spent on it.  The main reason being that it discussed SO MANY MORE aspects of menopause than I ever would have dreamed of thinking about!!  It is not a book you can sit down and read cover-to-cover.  It has to be read slowly, and digested.  After reading this book and another one, I went to see my doctor with a list of pre-prepared questions, and he said I was the best-informed patient he had ever had (here in Morocco).  I suggest that you DO buy this book, but you might want one or two other books which cover different aspects of the menopause transition.  The other book I chose was a paperback called &quot;The Silent Passage,&quot; and between the two books, I feel very satisfied.	2002-03-25
US	44731169	R2NPY49117QHT	0061099341	757036024	As the Crow Flies	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Another Excellent Novel by Jeffrey Archer	I really enjoyed this book of Archer's just as much as every other book of his that I've read.  This book is about business, as opposed to politics.  I enjoyed reading most about how the main character built up his business, and the ingenious ways  he solved his various business problems.  Just as in all his other novels, there is a big clash between the main character with his  long-term enemy, whech keeps you on the edge of your chair.  A really excellent book.	2002-03-23
US	44731169	R1DJ9WQ9XQW5U0	055357258X	296291763	The Last Suppers (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Too Much Food, and Too Much Church	I managed to finish this book, but will definitely not read another one in this series.  She's written a passable mystery, but I found too much emphasis on food and church.  If you enjoy those two things, you would really love the whole series.  The author is VERY knowledgeable about church affairs, and calls on that knowledge to write this series.  the emphaszis on food is meant to bring humor into the book.  But I don't find that mystery and humor mix very well.  Also, I just could never come to like the main character (or any of the other characters, either), and therefore, never really got pulled into caring about what happened in the books.  I had really looked forward to reading one of the books in this series.  This was the first one I came across.  It was a disappointment for me personally.	2002-03-18
US	44731169	R2UG9CGK51CG5N	055357258X	296291763	The Last Suppers (Goldy Culinary Mysteries, Book 4)	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Too Much Food, and Too Much Church	I managed to finish this book, but will definitely not read another one in this series.  She's written a passable mystery, but I found too much emphasis on food and church.  If you enjoy those two things, you would really love the whole series.  The author is VERY knowledgeable about church affairs, and calls on that knowledge to write this series.  the emphaszis on food is meant to bring humor into the book.  But I don't find that mystery and humor mix very well.  Also, I just could never come to like the main character (or any of the other charaters, either, and therefore, never really got pulled into caring about what happened in the books.  I had really looked forward to reading one of the books in this series.  This was the first one I came across.  It was a disappointment for me personally.	2002-03-18
US	44731169	R2F0ZYXPPZ2KE0	0802135897	179670901	Snowblind: A Brief Career in the Cocaine Trade	Books	4	5	13	N	Y	Interesting, But Dated	I enjoyed this book, but it was a slow read.  I thought it was interesting how Swan smuggled in the 70's, but I'm sure none of these techniques would work today--if for no other reason, the cocaine-sniffing dogs!  The author writes very well, but he was so sharp and witty, that I'm afraid a lot of those witticms flew right over my head, and I had to re-read many times to figure out what was meant, and even then, sometimes couldn't.	2002-03-10
US	44731169	RWCJTBRNEYVLI	0060652934	963630731	The Screwtape Letters	Books	2	11	36	N	N	Well-Written, But Extremely Boring	...It is very well-written, and the premise is interesting.  However, I found it so boring I could hardly pay attention.  C.S. Lewis does make some good points, but he really beats them to death.  The reason I'm rating the book two stars instead of one is that it really is very well-written, in spite of being extremely boring.	2002-03-04
US	44731169	R38KCRCA87BW5Y	0312927673	684610278	Master Class	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Moderately Good Read	The story of an art hisorian's personal growth and transformation into a better person than he was previously.  Masterful development of characters, and a moderately interesting story, but I never felt like I couldn't put the book down.  The ending was realistic, and moderately satisfying.  A well-written book, but not as good as some of his other books.	2002-03-02
US	44731169	R224A8TMNVMJ4N	0915024977	19849689	Wisconsin Trails 2002 Scenic Wall Calendar	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Excellent Photographs--Numbers Not Bold Enough	I liked all of the photgraphs, except one.  The calendar is fine, but difficult to see the numbers of the dates from even mid-way across a room.  I wish the dates had been printed a little more boldly.	2002-02-20
US	44731169	R32EF8J5ZJEB31	0696211025	393919778	Fireplace Decorating and Planning Ideas	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Best Fireplace Book on the Market	To say that I was pleased with this book would be the understatement of the year!  When I first looked through it, I was pleased by the 150 color photographs, but thought I liked some of them and not others.  However, when I read the easy-to-read text, I have to say that I actually LEARNED something important from each and every illustration, of which each is well discussed in the text.  Most imortantly, the book covers all the important questions to ask yourself when trying to choose which kind of fireplace, as well as all the pertinent information about each type.  It also talks about fireplace care and maintenance, and how to prevent dangerous creosote buildup in your chimney.  Lastly, the book covers decorating rooms with fireplaces and various types of mantle, discussing imortant design and decorating principles throughout.  In addition, this paperback book is printed on lovely paper--it was a pleasure to read in every way.  One of the most &quot;well-worth-the-money&quot; books I have ever seen.	2002-02-19
US	44731169	R1FYBZ4CCY1LI9	0517163691	43283827	New England: Scenic Views (Gramercy Calendars)	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Numbers Hard to See Across the Room	The calendar is fine, and the pictures are nice, but not exceptional.  The problem is that sitting in a chair only halfway across the room, we can't see the numbers on the day boxes--they aren't printed in bold enough type.  We have to get up and actually walk over to the calendar to be able to read it.	2002-02-19
US	44731169	R2HC0IVH105BW2	0671567772	288454653	The Silent Passage: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	Tells You What Other Women Are Experiencing	Chapters are short and easy to read.  This book deals not only with the technical aspects that most books do, but primarily with particular women's experiences with those various aspects--especially their feelings.  This is what is left out of most of the other books.  I recommend this book together with a more techinical book.  But if you can only buy one book, buy this one instead.  The main thing this book left me with was a feeling that instead of menopause being something that will just happen to me, there are a lot of things I can do, in a proactive sense, to manage the menopause.  This is the most positive book I have seen on the subject, and helps me decide about all the questions to discuss with my doctor.  Without reading this book, instead of being ready with a list of questions for my doctor, I would have passively listened to whatever he said, and thought that was it.	2002-02-19
US	44731169	RXMT8CJKKOONN	1572242140	29523483	The Relaxation & Stress Reduction Workbook	Books	5	14	19	N	Y	This is the Book I've Been Looking for for 10 Years!	I'm an American woman living overseas, and believe-you-me, I've had some VERY stressful times these past ten years.  I'm not stressed out at present, but saw this book, and ordered it to deal with the next time I am.  Looking through the book, I would have given ANYTHING to have this book at various times these past few years.  If you are stressed out, BUY THIS BOOK!  WELL WORTH THE MONEY.	2002-02-19
US	44731169	RX30GMD0PEMDN	0965485609	994747816	Build It Right! What to Look for in Your New Home	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Helps Avoid Blatant Design Flaws in Your Home	This book is actually written by a builder with many years of experience, writing for the new homebuilder who is in the process of designing a new home.  He shows diagrams throughout the book of many design flaws that people build into their homes every day, and points out how these can be avoided.  Don't be one of the people who get caught with one of these easy-to-avoid design flaws--BUY THIS BOOK!! It's easy to understand, and worth every penny.	2002-02-19
US	44731169	R38RWL2U79N606	0786707496	191947686	Serpentine	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Every Traveler Should Read This Book BEFORE Departing	In 1990, I was a woman, traveling alone around the world, for one year. I met a couple unsavory characters along the way--one of whom I now know was a socioopath--but fortunately escaped without long-lasting harm. I came across this book, originally thinking it was fiction (it was mismarked in the library where I found it), but found it was a true story of a sociopath, and how he preyed upon tourist after unsuspecting tourist. It particularly fascinated me as many of the places in this book were places I visited myself. If I had read this book before traveling, I don't think the sociopath I met could have done anything to me. As it was, I was too naive and trusting. The first thing I did after reading this book from the library was to go out and BUY my own copy to keep. And I plan to recommend this book to each and every person I know who is going abroad on any more than a simple vacation to a standard destination. If you are a traveler, or have friends who are travelers, the information contained in this book is priceless.	2002-02-08
US	44731169	R2E27L2PWWCOU6	0060915153	186661791	Why Do Clocks Run Clockwise? And Other Imponderables	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Answers to Some of the Questions I've Always Wondered About	This book was pure pleasure reading.  I finished the whole thing in a few hours.  Great questions, with clear, easy-to-udnerstand answers.  I'd love to read other books by the same author.	2002-02-02
US	44731169	R2AY85AAHVS0VK	1864500247	592277263	Lonely Planet World Food Morocco (Lonely Planet World Food Guides)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	This Book Has a Few Problems, But I Still Recommend It	I have lived in Marrakesh, Morocco for the past ten years, and eagerly picked up this book as soon as I saw it.  Both the text and pictures in the book are REALLY lovely.  If you are planning to travel in Morocco, it is a wonderful introduction to Moroccan cuisine.  <br />However, don't try following the recipies given in this book, because some steps have been left out, and your result will not be correct.  I found problems with several of the recipies.  For example, the author tells you to make tagines (Moroccan stews) by putting meat or chicken in a pot with spices and water, and bringing ot a boil.  While her lists of ingredients are correct, she has forgotten the all-important step of searing all sides of the meat in the pan BEFORE adding any water.  If you don't do this, it will jsut taste like boiled meat.  For correct and easy-to-follow recipies, adjusted to American kitchens, choose Paula Wolfert's book, &quot;Good Food From Morocco.&quot;<br />The other small problem I found with this book is that some of the author's explanations for Moroccan behaviors are just plain not correct.  For example, she states that most Moroccans never eat in restaurants because this would be an insult to the wife's or the mother's cooking.  Having lived here for ten years, I can tell you the real reason is that most Moroccans just plain cannot afford even the cheapest restaurants.  Upper-class and wealthy Moroccans DO eat in restaurants, nevertheless, often a couple of times a week.<br />Overall, however, I think the author has done an excellent job, and this would be a great book to either take with you on your trip to Morocco (it's pocket size), or to read in advance of your trip.	2002-02-02
US	44731169	R36SLH9P1MFMJC	0451159497	349965468	Sphinx	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Drama and Adventure in Modern Egypt	When I saw this book in the library, I picked it up immediately as I am both a fan of Robin Cook, and interested in ancient Egypt.  This book is not a medical thriller.  I'd say it's half way between a drama and thriller.  <br />I really enjoyed reading this book, and read the whole thing over two days.  I could hardly put it down.  I have personally spent time living in Egypt, and can tell you, Robin Cook has really done his research, making his Egyptian characters come to life, in the way that Egyptians REALLY DO think and act.  Most novelists would miss this, as they don't understand the Egyptian personality.  This really made the novel realistic to me.  I absolutely loved the hereoine, and could really identify with her.  I could imagine being an Egyptologist, and going to Egypt in her place.  I also liked it that she stood up to her doctor boyfriend, had her fling there as well, and comes out in the end having learned a lot about herself, and about Egypt.  A good mix of drama and adventure, sent in modern Egypt.	2002-02-02
US	44731169	R1P4ZWJRMP8O11	0140258361	966184638	Shadow Baby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Explores Feelings of Parents and Adopted Children	I was adopted as a child, at the age of six (both parents killed in a car accident when I was four).  I found this story of two orphaned children to be well worth reading.  I enjoyed it more than another book by the same author, Hidden Lives.  What I enjoyed most was looking at how the two mothers felt about their illegitimate children, and how the two daughters felt about having been abandoned.  It explores all four of these women's lives and feelings for the entire course of all four women's lives.  I was fortunate to remember my real mother, and have people tell me about my real parents.  This book made me reflect on the various possiblities of how different parents and children react to adoption, and I thought it was quite realistically done, even though all four women's cases were drastically different from my own.  It is a book that really explores lives and feelings.	2002-01-29
US	44731169	R1CGV1DRLONJNZ	0374355398	878610313	Nobody's family is going to change	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	A Great Book for Parents to Discuss with Kids	This was a very interesting book, and it has kept me thinking about it for the two days since I finished it. I enjoyed Louise Fitzhugh's (author of Harriet the Spy)  other books, and purchased this one solely for this reason, knowing nothing about this book.  I am a third-grade teacher, and after reading this book, and considering carefully, do not not feel it is appropriate for elementary school.  It is very appropriate for middle school.  It was written in 1975, and some of the issues in the book reflect that--when American society was still going through the Women's Liberation movement.  It is the story of two kids--a 7-year-old boy, and a teen-aged girl--in a black family.  It deals with issues of not getting along with your parents, and finishes with the kids coming to grips with that, and ends by the kids feeling better about themselves and gaining self-confidence.  The reason I feel it is inappropriate for elementary school is that these issues are dealt with in a teenage way, menstruation is mentioned several times, and the word \\"faggot\\" is used as an insult between kids in the dialog.  But actually, while some younger children could read this book and understand it, a lot of the deeper meanings the book is intended to convey would go right over their heads. This would be a great book for kids and parents to read together and discuss.	2002-01-25
US	44731169	RHYO5F7GSCHAR	0061013315	462833565	The Eleventh Commandment: A Novel	Books	5	46	47	N	N	I Absolutely Loved This Book	I read this book in three days and could hardly put it down.  I have become interested lately in CIA and spy novels, and this book did not disappoint me in any way, in spite of what a couple reviewers below have said about it.  What I loved MOST about this book is that you don't expect a CIA assassin to be a truly honorable man, as was this main character.  It was really interesting how the author immediately pulls you into the assasin's mind and gets you right on his side.  <br />The reviewers below comment on the plot being implausible--that the CIA would not go around like this assasinating world leaders.  I don't think this comment is important.  In any novel, we must &quot;suspend our disbelief,&quot; and this novel is no different.  The more pertinent question in this novel is &quot;What if?&quot;  I personally thought it was one of the best plots I have ever read, and I really enjoyed how the characters were one-upping each other.  I was really surprised by the twists and turns of the plot as it progressed.  And I liked being surprised.  An EXCELLENT read.	2002-01-18
US	44731169	R2ZMVQ8HLHQJVF	0812567587	434456507	Death Walker: An Ella Clah Novel (Ella Clah Novels)	Books	4	4	8	N	Y	Very Good Book	I am a new reader to this genre. I chose this book because I was looking for a &quot;thriller&quot; with a female heroine. While I did NOT find this book a &quot;thriller,&quot; in terms of not being able to put it down, the story did keep moving right along, and I did find it to be a very interesting mystery. While I would recommend this book to readers who are interested in Indian lore and the southwest, I would equally recommend it to readers who aren't particularly interested in this setting, as well. Overall, a very enjoyable book.	2002-01-18
US	44731169	R74INBZN5X64J	0061092037	26202470	The Fourth Estate	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Author Very Astute About the Business World	Wow!  This was one of the most exciting novels I have read in a long time.  I kept thinking as I was reading it how many of my friends would enjoy it, too.  It's a Kane and Abel-type story, the clash of two titans in the newspaper business.  What I loved the most about it was all the twists and turns of one-upmanship that each was able to pull on the other!  This author's knowledge of the business world, and of human nature is just astounding.	2002-01-17
US	44731169	R2NFUU2MOBU19Y	0061007129	409197252	Kane & Abel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	One fo the Best Fiction Books I've Read in a Long Time	This book caught my eye with it's title--having a different spelling of Kane than the Biblical spelling. I read the back cover, and it looked interesting. Once I started reading, I was spellbound--I couldn't put it down. It's the story of two men--one born rich, the other poor, in two different countries, whose lives later become intertwined. This author is a master at transporting the reader into the human feelings of his characters. When I finished this book, I immediately ordered five more of Archer's books, just because he writes so well.	2001-12-27
US	44731169	R2BZIHZPL660R5	0061007145	741737021	The Prodigal Daughter	Books	4	3	7	N	N	One of the Best Fiction Books I've Read Lately	This book caught my eye with it's title--having a different spelling of Kane than the Biblical spelling. I read the back cover, and it looked interesting. Once I started reading, I was spellbound--I couldn't put it down. It's the story of two men--one born rich, the other poor, in two different countries, whose lives later become intertwined. This author is a master at transporting the reader into the human feelings of his characters. When I finished this book, I immediately ordered five more of Archer's books, just because he writes so well.	2001-12-27
US	44731169	RDRV7W3JWN95J	038000321X	399926886	Alive: The Story of the Andes Survivors	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This Book Is NOT a Novel--It is a True Survival Story	I was quite surprised to see some of the reviewers describing this book as a &quot;novel.&quot;  It is NOT a novel--it is a true-life survival story.  It was required reading in my South American Geography class, at the University of Northern Colorado, about 1975.<br />This book tells the story of a sports team flying from Argentina to Chile, whose plane went down in a snowstorm.  It is the story of the survivors, and how they turned to cannablism of the dead frozen bodies for several months.  A couple of them managed eventually, after several months, to get out and get help for the remaining survivors.  They were quite scarred psychologically, and ended up being absolved by the Pope.  After going through that experience, they don't keep in touch with one another.<br />One of the most gripping survival experiences I have ever read, and I highly recommend it to everyone.	2001-12-27
US	44731169	R3I9FXPJM40VU8	0061007129	409197252	Kane & Abel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best Fiction Books I've Read Lately	This book caught my eye with it's title--having a different spelling of Kane than the Biblical spelling.  I read the back cover, and it looked interesting.  Once I started reading, I was spellbound--I couldn't put it down.  It's the story of two men--one born rich, the other poor, in two different countries, whose lives later become intertwined.  This author is a master at transporting the reader into the human feelings of his characters.  When I finished this book, I immediately ordered five more of Archer's books, just because he writes so well.	2001-12-27
US	44731169	R3RVPY3EVMEWUH	0061007145	741737021	The Prodigal Daughter	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Excellent Sequel to Kane and Abel	The only reason I have rated this book four stars instead of five is that the second half of the book gets really extensively into politics, to the point where it bored me.  If you enjoy politics you will certainly rate this book five stars.  It follows the life of Abel Rosnofski's daughter from her birth until the epitome of her success, in her 60's.  I don't want to give away the ending, but will say that the ending was EXTREMELY satisfying, in spite of my having gotten a bit bogged down in the politics.	2001-12-27
US	44731169	R3UMBWMCU8M4CQ	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	1	4	N	Y	One of the Most Important Books for Our Age	Todd Weiner's review (below) was so excellent that I feel hard-pressed to add anything to it!  The book is packed full of information and anecdotes, but still easy to read (not like a text book).  I used to be a stock broker, and I can tell you, anyone who does any investing at all should read this book.  Also, anyone who is at all interested in the internet, globalization, international business and/or trade, or tariff and trade barriers between countries should read this book.  Buy it--it's well worth the money.  And better yet, get a friend to read it at the same time, so that you  will have someone to discuss it with.	2001-12-24
US	44731169	R2RBW7D0AAICIR	0340346507	294800386	A Woman of Cairo	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Author REALLY Knows His Historical Background	I just reread this book, after reading it many years ago.  In the intervening time, I spent several months in Egypt, and moved to Morocco, where I have resided for nine years.  I couldn't put the book down, and read through it in about three days.  What most impressed me this time was the author's comprehensive knowledge of the Middle-Eastern mentality, and his intimate portrayal of King Farouk, Nasser, and Sadat--the author having not only lived in Cairo, but having met personally these three historical figures.  I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in Egypt, or who plans to travel to Egypt.  My only other comment is that most Egyptian women would not be behaving as does the main female character in this novel, but they would think as she does.	2001-12-10
US	44731169	R1WVDPTP6AE2RV	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	5	2	4	N	N	This Book Was So Much Fun!	Not only did I enjoy this book, but I read parts of it to my third-grade class.  They enjoyed it as well.  And I found the chapter about how to not get trampled in a crowd really useful--about sticking out your elbows, and picking up your feet.  I am also a writer, and found a lot of useful ideas for getting characters out of tough situations!	2001-12-10
US	44731169	R64EBSM5GWJA9	0312973624	566519970	Monica's Story	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Very Human Story, A Wonderful Book	(...) I bought this book because I enjoyed Andrew Morton's book about Princess Diana.  This book presents the human side, as opposed to the political side, of the story, form Monica's point of view.  I think Andrew Morton was the perfect author to have taken on this book, and I would like to thank him for writing it.  I can hardly wait for his next book.<br />I was interested in knowing how Monica felt about the whole thing, and it was just what this book told me.	2001-12-05
US	44731169	R1QDKGCLC1Q5I1	1860940668	550807594	Earthquake-Resistant Design of Masonry Buildings (Series on Innovations in Structures and Construction , Vol 1)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Worth Every Penny!	I'm an American, living overseas in Morocco.  I'm preparing to build a house in an earthquake zone where they use masonry, and am in the process of educating myself before hiring an architect and contractor.  The style of construction here has greatly concerned me for many years.<br />I am a lay person with a non-mathematical and non-engineering background.  While this book is written primarily for engineers, it is also well-written in CLEAR ENGLISH that the layperson such as myself can understand.  It has a lot of precise and clear photographs and drawings to illustrate the author's points.  All of the mathematical formulas are included for engineers, and all sources are well-documented at the end of each chapter.  I skip over the formulas, as they are far above my understanding.  While there are some specific terms I don't understand, Miha has made every effort to explain most of the language, giving examples and photos of the terms he is talking about.  <br />With the information I have gleaned from this most excellent book, I now feel prepared in terms of what questions I wish to dicusss with my future architect and builder.<br />I ordered this book purely by its title, since there were no previous reviews, and was a bit hesitant with the price.  But the minute I received the book, and glanced through it, seeing the clear, well-written English, and the wonderful diagrams and illustrations, I felt the book was WELL-WORTH the price.  Now that I have actually read the book, my initial judgement has been more than confirmed.  I feel this book would be extremely useful for engineers, and for all laypersons who are considering masonry construction in earthquake zones--particularly in areas such as the hillsides of California which can be ravaged by forest fires and mudslides, in addition to earthquakes.  Lastly, this book is extremely useful to people by myself, living in third-world countries, who wish to contruct a home of a better quality than is normally constructed.  He discusses precise standards which are in place in various countries (not by name, but by typical standard), and compares them with modern Eurozone standards.<br />Lastly, I would REALLY LIKE TO THANK THIS AUTHOR for writing this book!	2001-12-02
US	44731169	R215TZ7CE2QRR	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Very Cleverly Written Novel	I came across this book because I was looking for books with a female heroine Private Eye.  This book is the story of an ordinary blue-collar woman, who by chance circumstances, gets drawn into being a bounty hunter!  She deals well with her circumstances, using ideas that ANY ordinary woman would have--she reacts in ways that any of us with no police background would--that's part of what makes this book so appealing.  Almost every conversation in the book is so cleverly written, having smart remarks and double meanings--it's extremely enjoyable for anyone who really enjoys a &quot;double entendre.&quot;  It's very rare to find a writer who can do this, other than a journalist with years of experience.  My thought is that this writer grew up in the sort of environment whe writes in--namely, people cracking smart remarks all the time!  I highly recommend this book (although it does contain off-color language, but used appropriately), and do now plan to read her whole series of books.  Sadly, due to the off-color language, however, I will not choose it for my bookclub.	2001-11-17
US	44731169	R36YY77VCIO03W	0911469176	240742336	The Forgotten Art of Building A Good Fireplace	Books	3	24	35	N	Y	Useful, But Only if Your Architect or Builder Reads It, Too	I am an American, living overseas, in Africa, and am in the process of designing my own home.  The building standards here are far lower than the standards in America, and I'm looking to educate myself before hiring an architect.<br />This book is the product of an interested layman's research, based on his own interest in finding out why some older, very unusual-looking fireplaces (by modern standards) seem to produce better, non-smoky fires than the modern fireplaces built in this century.  The author researched the historical documents and designs left by the famous early-American fireplace builder Count Rumford.  He shows us through explanations and diagrams the principles of Count Rumford's designs, and he does explain these principles clearly.  <br />I have two criticisms of the book.  The first is that he spent the first 35 pages talking about Count Rumford and his life (obviously of great personal interest to the author, and of less interest to me).  He spent only the last 20 or so pages specifically on the principles of fireplace design.  Secondly, as a layperson, he has had to include in the book a disclaimer for the information.  Therefore, this book is useful, but your architect or builder would have to read through it (it's short, and could be done) and pass his judgement upon the principles.  Therefore, I don't know if the book will be that useful to me here in Africa, as I am in a French-speaking country.  The book could have been greatly improved just by the addition of some comments by various architects added to it, in a separate section.	2001-11-17
US	44731169	R2BHS66Z5EZMSQ	0425151255	50734392	Grace	Books	5	20	21	N	N	It Told Me Just What I Wanted to Know About Her	I wanted to know all about the men in Grace Kelley's life, both before and after her marriage.  This book told me everything, but in a classy, well-researched way.  I learned a lot about Monaco, and just the things I would have wanted to know about her family members, too.  After reading this excellent book, I plan to read more of Robert Lacey's works.	2001-11-11
US	44731169	RR2MJIAGTRH00	0385495412	214439381	The Book of Honor : The Secret  Lives and Deaths of CIA Operatives	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Interesting and Enjoyable Biographical Sketches	I really enjoyed reading this well-researched, and well-written, book.  I felt all the people in this book died in sad circumstances, and it bothered me how the CIA had to make their deaths appear unconnected to the Agency--it is cruel and inhuman to their familes, even if necessary.<br />Reading this book made me realize I could never have been in the CIA, even if I had wanted to be.  I'm a talkative, not a secretive, person.  Also, even though I can understand the reasons why, I don't like organizations that operate on a &quot;need-to-know&quot; basis.<br />Overall, a slow and thoughtful read, but never a boring read.  A lot of interesting details were included.	2001-11-02
US	44731169	R3BEVPY3JUVSXH	1565540565	434751361	Wonderful World of Indian Cookery, The	Books	5	3	3	N	N	If You Can Buy Only One Indian Cookbook, Buy This One!!!	I live in Morocco, and asked an English friend of mine to look for a book for me in England which explains how to make good curries (i.e., NOT a vegetarian cookbook).  She brought this one and gave it to me for a gift.  EVERY recipie I have tried form it has turned out to be WONDERFUL!!!  I own both of Julie Sahani's Indian cookbooks.  They are wonderful, too, but this one is EVEN BETTER, if you can believe it!  The thing I love most about it is that it is printed on very good paper, and there are color photographs of many more recipies than other books.  Both my family and friends have raved about EVERY recipie I have tried form this book.	2001-09-29
US	44731169	R2LVUIHJ5IDDAT	0380794977	948741023	My Spy: Memoir of a CIA Wife	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Good Book, Misleading Title	I really enjoyed this book, but its title is a bit misleading.  It Should have been titled, &quot;My Life, While Married to a CIA Spy.&quot;  The thing which struck me the most was that I'd never make it as the wife of someone in the CIA.  Maybe as a spy, but never as the wife.  The wives had to sit at home whenever their husbands disappeared, with no advance warning, and perhaps for weeks on end without EVER picking up the telephone to call and enquire as to the husband, or when he might be back--or a mission could be compromised.  One woman was in the last weeks of her pregnancy, and her husband had disappeared for several weeks.  This finally did make that call, and the husband's mission was compromised.  It was the husband's last mission.  Later he left the agency, and also divorced his wife.  Anyway, there were a lot of interesting anecdotes in the book.  Bina tells as much as she can without compromising anyone who could now be hurt by the book.	2001-09-29
US	44731169	R3GBQ5TGCJI6VY	1559721782	157629994	A Spy in Canaan: My Life As a Jewish-American Businessman Spying for Israel in Arab Lands	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	I Can't Believe He Hasn't Been Assassinated!	This was one of the most interesting books I ever read.  Even though he has changed the names of everyone, certainly all the people mentioned would recognize themselves and what fools have been made of them.  I would think that they, and their governments, would all be out for revenge.  This is really a tell-all book of spy methods.  I am surprised that it isn't classified, and I would think that it might seriously compromise our own spies in the area of national security, unless spy methods have really changed  a lot since that time, and all these methods have become obsolete.  But I don't think so, as they mostly involve people skills.  Nevertheless, I am thinking about writing a novel,a nd a lot of the information I was searching for was found here.  An amazing, exciting book.  Hard to put down.  As it is out of print, I ordered it used through one of the used booksellers in Amazon.com.  I recommend you do the smae.  The book I received was in excellent condition, and I'm glad I read it.	2001-09-26
US	44731169	R2VGQXKAU7WWCZ	0898798299	26034605	You Can Write Children's Books	Books	5	36	39	N	Y	One of the Best Books on Writing I've Ever Read	I have read about 50 different books on writing, and I'd put this one in the top 3.  Tracey Dills REALLY knows what she is talking about, and I would really like to thank her for writing this book.	2001-09-11
US	44731169	RM022ILRE8N6B	0881334049	530661399	A Street in Marrakech	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	One Family's Year-Long Experience Living in Marrakesh	I am an American woman who has been living in Marrakesh for the past 9 years.  I just read this book.  Even though it was written in the early 1970's, I found it to be a very accurate portrayal of life in the old medina, even now.    The author and her husband are anthropologists, and both spoke fluent Arabic upon their arrival, from having lived previously in Iraq and Egypt.  Therefore, the author was able to converse with people daily, and understand completely, what they were saying.  This is something I have never been able to do.  Because of this, she is able to give a VERY detailed look at an aspect of life which is nearly impossible for most outsiders to penetrate--the hidden life of Medina women, which takes place behind high, closed walls.  What she describes is very similar to what I have experienced here of life with my Moroccan husband's family, and the people who live around them in the Medina.  This book is NOT a study of political or historical conditions--it is the detailed, personal history of one family's year-long experience of living, and immersing itself, in the life of Marrakesh.	2001-09-01
US	44731169	R2A08J145RNXB9	0385425074	227839006	Backlash: The Undeclared War Against American Women	Books	3	19	32	N	N	Long on Anecdotes, Short on Opinion and Analysis	I had SO much looked forward to reading this book.  It is well-wrtten, and has loads and loads of supporting anecdotes.  But in fact, it has so many that I became bored with it.  the author makes good points, but keeps rehashing them over and over, and never gets to making conclusions.  I have to say that I tried, but was not able to even finish the book, as after I got halfway though, I began skimming for the conclusions, and never found them.  Disappointing.	2001-08-22
US	44731169	R2Q31NTAOM6IEV	0786867078	181573917	Special Agent: My Life on the Front Lines as a Woman in the FBI	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Really Good Story	The true story of woman entering a male-dominated field 20 years ago.  The wonderful story of her personal life and career.  I found the entire thing interesting, except I thought the Unabomber search was too drawn out.  I really liked how at the end of the book she has a chapter telling women how to protect themselves and their kids from sexual predators.  It's good advice.	2001-08-21
US	44731169	R3IT0E1CAYSQWT	0786866845	728258902	Ice Bound: A Doctor's Incredible Battle for Survival at the South Pole	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	This Book Really Spoke to Me	While I totally agree with the other reviewers that the first half is better than the second half, and the last third of the book has far too many e-mails, I STILL give this book 5 stars just for what it discusses about the meaning of her life, and about life in general.  This book is less about life at the Pole, and about breast cancer, than it is about HER EXPERIENCE of life at the Pole, and about how she was able to deal with the breast cancer problem, given her limited resources at the Pole.  In 1990, I was on an airplane flight from New Zealand to the U.S., and I just happened to sit next to a man who was returning from a year at the Pole.  I could never fully understand why he felt as he did about his life there, from his comments, but now I do--Jerri Neilsen has explained it for me.  The most interesting parts of the book were how people live at the Pole, the conditions of work there, and people's mental state, and how they adapt to those conditions.  And I really enjoyed reading about Jerri's life and FEELINGS before she went to the Pole and how her life and FEELINGS changed through her experiences.  Perhaps the reviewers who didn't like this book are not interested in her personal FEELINGS.  I read this book in one day, finishing at midnight, because I couldn't put it down.  It has kept me thinking continuously, for several days, ever since.  In my opinion, a book you never think about, after you have put it down, is not a good book.  Any book or movie that KEEPS drawing your mind back to it has obviously had something worthwhile in it.  I have HIGHLY recommended this book to all of my friends, and I will be choosing it for my selection in our bookclub.	2001-08-19
US	44731169	R39ZU6KJKNTYA6	0385900120	578169710	The Long Secret	Books	5	27	33	N	N	Excellent Book, But Very Disturbing	I think if a child is going to read this book, that the parent shoud read it either first, or along with the child, and discuss it with the child.  I LOVED Harriet the Spy, both as a child, as an adult.  When I bought Harriet the Spy for my dauughter, I saw this book, and bought it, too, sight unseen.  I have just read it, and am quite surprised that the topics discussed in this book could have been published in 1965, when society was more conservative today.  I did not like the chapter on Janie having her period.  Not that I object to the subject being discussed--I just didn't like the presentation of it in this book.  I think what I found disturbing about this book are the particular identity issues it brings up.  Maybe it touched too closely on some things I found disturbing as a child.  I was shocked  with the actions and behavior of some of the adult characters in the book--I didn't like it at all.  However, I will concede that by the end of the book, the behavior of the characters I didn't like was completely discredited, and Beth Ellen REALLY ends up growing as a person in this book--that's what this book is all about.  I was VERY surprised how the mystery of the notes ended--I didn't expect it, and that was excellent.  I think Louise Fitzhugh tied up all the ends very well, and makes some excellent moral points for kids to think about.  Another issue in this book is the extreme rudeness of Harriet's behavior--her behavior in the first book didn't bother me at all--but in this book it did.  At least her extreme rudeness is pointed out to kids for them to think about (I'm not talking about her spying on people--I'm talking about the way she SPEAKS to people, and the way she treats her FRIENDS).  Even though the book disturbed me, I felt it WAS well-written, and had some important points to make.  I would recommend it, but would suggest parents read it, too, and discuss it with their children.	2001-08-19
US	44731169	RQBQG83QK7TDD	0873646851	528889564	Drug Smuggling: The Forbidden Book	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	Extremely Well Written, Good Information	Gosh--if someone were truly thinking of entering the drug-smuggling profession, they should buy this book, as it gives very sound advice.  Personally, I'm thinking of writing a novel, and including some drug-smuggling characters.  This book gave me complete information for an excellent character profile.  I was shocked at some of the information included, as I feel certain chapters should have been classified information (to protect against terroists).  I really liked the style in which the book was written, as well--very direct, and easy to read.  A REALLY EXCELLENT book.	2001-08-19
US	44731169	R28DF0UYRK1G7U	0345413873	625404653	Monster (An Alex Delaware Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I Really Enjoyed It!	This was the third book I read of his, and I thought it was wonderful.  I couldn't put it down, and the ending was a surprise to me!  I rate it 5 stars.	2001-08-05
US	44731169	RR3Q3048GIYH6	0553378589	253928041	Working with Emotional Intelligence	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Long on Anecdotes--But Short on Advice	I began this book with great interest.  With his excellent anecdotes, I quickly became fully convinced of the value of working with emotional intelligence.  But instead of going on to make suggestions as to how a person could improve their own emotional inteligence, or how to help employees/managers in this area, he continued on and on with more anecdotes, clear until the end of the book.  I didn't need any more convincing--I was already convinced by the first third of his book--I wanted him to give some advice about implementation, which he didn't give.	2001-08-03
US	44731169	R2QIEBJYAEGKKF	0061009504	421509995	Shinju	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Five-Star Book!	I was planning to give this book 5 starts until I got to the end, and my opinion quickly jumped to 5 stars!  The reason I enjoyed this book so much is that I love stories of private individuals (not police) investigating and solving crimes.  With all of the obstacles that befell the main character, I kept thinking, &quot;And how will he get out of this?  And this?  And this?&quot;  I never suspected who the real murderer turned out to be, and the end was increditbly fantastic.  I plan to read more of this author's books.	2001-08-03
US	44731169	RPAHJRF1X6QGZ	0671042750	25579300	A Perfect Spy	Books	1	10	24	N	N	I Was REALLY Disappointed	I read this book because I hear that John Le Carr was the &quot;consumate master of spy novels,&quot; and it just so happened that someone had given me a used copy of this book, which had been sitting on my bookshelf for a year or two.  I would characterize the book as a gigantic character study, with pages and pages of description.  If this is what you enjoy, then this is the book for you.  Personally, I found the book extremely difficult to plod through, and after all that plodding, was EXTREMELY disappointed by the ending--for me it was a big let-down, and made me feel like throwing the book across the room after all my effort in reading it!!  One reason I found this book so difficult is that I continually had trouble figuring out who was talking, and to whom!  He keeps changing viewpoint, switching between characters, with no chapter breaks to help readers.  As a famous author once said, for every obsurity you leave in your book, for every time the reader is confused, you just lose that many more readers.  Had I not been extremely motivated to read this book, I would not ever have read beyond the first 20 pages.  After reading the entire thing, perhaps I am obtuse, but I never was successful entirely in understanding the motivations of the main character, or his feelings motivating his actions.  To anyone who tackles this book, good luck!  I did, however find a few interesting tidbits in the book.  For example, one way the spies used to communicate was to use newspapers, through which various pinpricks in the text were held up to the light to be read.	2001-07-30
US	44731169	R1X4X0GFNYVQHY	0440221900	557168734	Nest of Vipers	Books	5	5	6	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I EVER READ!!	I read this book in a day, and I just couldn't put it down.  I really enjoyed the female heroine.  I used to be a stockbroker in Denver, and really enjoyed the female heroine, and the vicarious thrills of her life!!!	2001-04-29
US	44731169	R2O2C90CDUIPMR	0688049958	524956334	Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grain Cooking	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Extremely useful	For anyone looking for an authentic ethnic-based vegetarian cusine, this is a book I have found extremely useful over the 10 years I've owned it!	2001-04-29
US	44731169	R1USZVGOWD8JYB	0745137873	122734598	Wilderness of Mirrors	Books	5	2	5	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST BOOKS I'VE EVER READ!	I read Nest of Vipers in one day, and I read this book the next day.  I found it equally as good.  I can hardly wait for Linda Davies next book!!!	2001-04-29
US	44731169	R1BIIZQRCC2TKI	038519577X	563229210	The New Doubleday Cookbook	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Good Companion Volume to Joy of Cooking	I bought an earlier edition of this book when I got married in 1976.  Over the past 25 years, it is the book I have most often reached for (together with Joy of Cooking).  It is similar to Joy of Cooking, but contains different receipies, and slightly different, but complimentary information.  I will buy this book for my dauther when she gets married.	2001-04-29
US	44731169	R1MJ12289FAH65	0812567587	434456507	Death Walker: An Ella Clah Novel (Ella Clah Novels)	Books	4	4	7	N	Y	VERY GOOD BOOK	I am a new reader to this genre.  I chose this book because I was looking for a &quot;thriller&quot; with a female heroine.  While I did NOT find this book a &quot;thriller,&quot; in terms of not being able to put it down, the story did keep moving right along, and  I did find it to be a very interesting mystery.  While I would recommend this book to readers who are interested in Indian lore and the southwest, I would equally recommend it to readers who aren't particularly interested in this setting, as well.  Overall, a very enjoyable book.	2001-04-29
