US	44820013	RW5P9U91LYGBF	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	5	13	23	N	N	A lot of fun	One of the things I love most about this book is that Goldberg has the wisdom to include unlikely candidates such as Jane Smiley, Barbara Kingsolver, Bill Moyers, Jimmy Carter, Noam Chomsky, Maury Povich, and Ward Churchill, as well as the more obvious ones like Howard Stern, Michael Moore, Al Franken, Eminem, Dan Rather, Oliver Stone, Courtney Love, and Jerry Springer. <br /> <br />Witty, lots of fun to read, and generally right on target.	2005-09-13
US	44820013	R3RLWQFAE5IMNT	0802828760	186361013	A Different Jesus?: The Christ of the Latter-day Saints	Books	2	40	113	N	N	Very misleading	This is a very problematic book, as others have already pointed out.  Instead of clearly looking at the things that separate Mormonism from historic orthodox Christianity, it tends to ignore or gloss over the crucial points and instead focus in on superficial resemblances between the two faiths.   <br /> <br />Perhaps the biggest difference between Christianity and Mormonism is that the former is a historical religion and the latter is not.  Mormonism makes its claims based on a \\"translation\\" of supposed golden plates that cannot now nor never have been able to be produced.  Nor has the translation mechanism, the Urim and Thumim, ever been produced.  Mormons like to talk about Mormon \\"prophets,\\" such as \\"Nephi,\\" but these prophets, who supposedly prophesied thousands of years ago, cannot be shown to have ever existed.  Christianity, on the other hand, has been subjected to more than three hundred years of the most intense critical scrutiny by antagonistic scholars, scientists, and historians.  It has come out of that period of scrutiny with it having been unequivocally established as a historical religion, with its basic outlines acknowledged to be historical by even the most skeptical person. <br /> <br />Another huge difference between Mormonism and Christianity is that it can be demonstrated that the events described in the Old Testament and New Testament were recorded fairly close in time to the actual occurrence of the events described, whereas many of the purported events described in the Book of Mormon took place thousands of years before they ever came to light.  Thus, we have no way of knowing whether or not they actually occurred, except on the testimony of the Book of Mormon itself. <br /> <br />A third significant difficulty with Mormonism over against Judaism and Christianity is that both of these latter arose within a covenantal context in relation to a community called into existence by God himself, whereas Mormonism arose out of vastly different circumstances.  The Bible describes the calling by God of Abraham, His making a covenant with him, His establishing him as a clan, a tribe, and finally a nation, and His promise to bless all nations through him.  Christianity came about in a similar fashion.  It arose out of a pre-existing community, Israel, and its founder, Jesus, was himself a Jew, who fulfilled the covenant promises of His Father to Israel.  At the Last Supper, using sacrificial, covenantal language, soon to be effectuated by his death on the Cross and His resurrection, He fulfilled God's promises to Israel to be a light to all nations by doing what Israel could not do--that is, be faithful to her calling.  Thus, Christianity saw itself, and continues to see itself, as a continuation of the salvation history God the Father initiated with Israel and brought to completion in the person of His Son, Jesus.  The origins of Mormonism have little or nothing in common with the way God called into existence Israel and brought forth Christianity as a result of the atoning death of His Son.  There are no comparable salvation-history events connected with the founding of Mormonism.  The supposed translation of golden plates, which cannot be demonstrated to even have existed, is in no way comparable to God's call of Abraham, or the rise of the Christian Church following Jesus' life, death, and resurrection.  Unlike Christianity, Mormonism did not come out of a pre-existent community, nor is it in any significant continuity with any pre-existent community related to God or Jesus.  There is simply no record of God ever having acted to establish a people in the way Mormons claim they have been established by God, that is, by a private revelation of God to a single man. <br /> <br />Finally, there are very great and significant differences between Mormon understandings about who God and Jesus are and Christian understandings, despite what Mormons may say to the contrary for apologetic or ecumenical purposes.  These differences, once again, have to do with history.  Very early on, the Christian Church began to closely resemble the shape it presently exhibits, especially as expressed among Catholics and the Orthodox.  By the end of the first century, about 65 years after the death of Jesus, the three-fold ministry is already in place, and the bishops are seen to be the successors of the Apostles.  People are still alive who knew Jesus and the Apostles.  By the middle of the second century, we begin to get fairly complete written descriptions of Christian worship, which is universally Eucharistic.  Around the same time, we begin to see written descriptions of Trinitarian understandings, as well as a nascent two-natures Christology.  All of this is arising out of the Church's practice of living the life, worship, ministry, and teaching handed from Jesus to the Apostles to the bishops.  This process of an unfolding understanding of who God is and who Jesus is continues without interruption from the time of the Apostles to the time when the major doctrines of Christianity are firmly in place, around the middle of the fourth century.  The apostolic understanding is faithfully preserved, unfolded, and developed under the auspices of the bishops, who are the successors of the Apostles and the custodians of the Faith.   <br /> <br />The question arises:  Which process is more likely to produce a correct understanding about Jesus and God, one that arises immediately after direct contact with and witness to Jesus and is preserved, unfolded, and developed by those uniquely entrusted to its preservation, unfolding, and development, that is, historic orthodox Christianity, or one that arises 1900 years after Jesus, has no demonstrable historical or communal connection with Jesus, and is derived from a supposed translation of plates that cannot be demonstrated to have ever existed, that is, Mormonism?   <br /> <br />The crucial issues delineated above, which provide the proper starting point for a discussion about Mormonism and Christianity, are scarcely touched on in this book, let alone carefully looked at.  Thus, the book has extremely limited value, as it fails to come to grips with what really divides these two rather radically different faiths.	2005-09-11
US	44820013	R22W1CA3A064Y5	158617021X	468480917	The Meaning of Tradition	Books	5	100	102	N	N	A great short treatise on Tradition	As the Catholic Church in the 20th century has rebounded from its Reformation-induced four-century hunkered-down posture, one of the things it has done is to recover a gracefulness of apologetics that has become one of its greatest attributes.  The works of such authors as Jean Guitton (e.g., The Church and the Gospel and The Problem of Jesus), Rene Girard (I See Satan Fall Like Lightening), Jean-Luc Marion (God Without Being), Hans Urs von Balthasar, Romano Guardini, and Louis Bouyer (e.g., The Spirit and Forms of Protestantism and Word, Church, and Sacrament in Protestantism and Catholicism)--not to mention those of John Paul II and Benedict XVI--have positioned the Church more in the stance of dialog partner than of antagonist even as she has maintained the integrity of her position as bearer of the fullness of the faith. <br /> <br />This great little book by Yves Congar, long out of print but now once again, thankfully, available, solidifies the Church's well-deserved reputation as a gentle warrior for truth even in relation to those who find themselves, largely through no fault of their own, outside its precincts. <br /> <br />In my thirty-year journey to Catholicism from evangelical Protestantism, I don't ever recall encountering a formal delineation of the Catholic understanding of Tradition.  Even though I had come to a position where I felt I could substantially affirm Catholic self-understandings, I can't remember ever coming face to face with the Catholic position on Tradition.  Yes, I had arrived at essentially the same view the Church takes on Tradition--that the threefold ministry (bishop, priest, deacon), the Catholic form of worship (variously called the Mass, the Eucharist, the Paschal Mystery), and the Catholic understanding of authority (expressed normatively through the Magisterium) are all essential aspects of the Church--but without actually encountering the Catholic concept of Tradition.  In other words, I deduced the necessity of such a thing as Tradition in Catholic self-understanding without actually having made its acquaintance.  Which was fine, except that if I had had the opportunity to read this wonderful treatise by Yves Congar, I might have resolved my difficulties about becoming Catholic far earlier. <br /> <br />The greatest thing about this book is its clarity.  In little more than 65,000 words, the renowned French theologian and architect of Vatican II succinctly and elegantly lays out the Catholic view of Tradition--the handing on of unwritten understandings--from the Lord to the Apostles to their successors, the Bishops, up to the present.  For a Catholic this Tradition is authoritative, because it came from the Lord himself, who handed it on or over to the Apostles, who in turn handed it on to their successors.  The Latin word for Tradition literally means a handing on or handing over.  The contents of this Tradition are, essentially, the Eucharist, the threefold ministry, and the Petrine prerogatives.  Since Tradition has a divine origin and Apostolic pedigree, it cannot be changed:  its Worship, Ministry, and Authority are something received from the Lord through the Apostles and then the Bishops; these things, therefore, are not subject to correction or reconfiguration.  They may be developed, but not altered. <br /> <br />From a Catholic perspective, Protestants also share in the Church's Tradition, although imperfectly and incompletely:  The breach that occurred in the sixteenth century between Catholics and Protestants caused the latter to lose certain essential aspects of Tradition in terms of Worship, Ministry, and Authority.  In Worship, Protestants devised novel liturgies that often incompletely expressed the fullness of Catholic understanding, especially, for example, in relation to such essential concepts as Eucharistic sacrifice. Interestingly, many of these incompletions have been recovered in contemporary Protestant liturgical churches (e.g., Lutheran and Anglican) in consequence of the Liturgical Renewal.  In ministry, many Protestant churches lost the threefold ministry, and those that retained it have struggled to find a way link it to historic apostolicity.  There is also a critical problem of jurisdiction, as the Catholic Church regards its Bishops and none others as the Apostolic Ordinaries in any given geographical area.  As regards authority, Protestantism tended to lose the ability to speak definitively about doctrine as well as to exercise discipline on wayward members, especially in relation to clergy and theologians who depart from received understandings.   <br /> <br />As Protestants are more and more coming to see that the Catholic Church has resources that they lack, this eloquent book will help them understand how it is that she came to possess these resources.  Perhaps it will also be a source for increased understanding among divided Christians.  For Catholics, it will help them understand how the bounteous riches their Church daily experiences came to be, how they were passed on and preserved, and how they continue to give it life.	2005-09-01
US	44820013	R2SMT28VMZ05GR	0801027977	973781768	Is the Reformation Over?: An Evangelical Assessment of Contemporary Roman Catholicism	Books	4	144	173	N	N	One is tempted to just say . . .	Yes.    That's the simple, if too glib, answer.  And the authors, who have taken a good deal of time and care to carefully examine the question, deserve a better response than that.  Still, as a former Protestant Evangelical who entered the Catholic Church on the Easter Vigil of 2005, that's the conclusion I came to.    I came to the Catholic Church because I arrived at the point where I could affirm her self-understanding.  This came about through a thirty-year process where I looked at the questions dividing Evangelicalism and Catholicism from the point of view of history, theology, and practice.  Since Mark Noll is a historian, he seems especially attuned to the strength of the Catholic position, and the weakness of the Evangelical position, vis-a-vis history.  Anyone who looks closely at the history of the Church in the first few centuries following Christ's resurrection will see clearly that it very early on takes on a Catholic appearance.  From Clement of Rome through Ignatius of Antioch through Polycarp through Justin Martyr through Iranaeus--that is, from about the end of the first century through the end of the second century--the Church increasingly comes to resemble its present shape, in its structure, ecclesiology, liturgy, theology, and sacramental understanding.  This is so clearly established that no one, except Protestant liberals like Elaine Pagels and Bart Ehrman, questions it anymore.  The difficulty for Protestant Evangelicals is that they accept the theological developments but not the structural, ecclesiological, liturgical, and sacramental developments.  The question arises, why accept the one and reject the others?  How is it that the same Church that is developing proper Trinitarian and Christological understandings, as well as determining the canon of Scripture, can be right in the one area and wrong in the other areas?  What principal is at work here?  The problem with Protestantism is that there are no historical antecedents for it.  Thatis, it can't be shown to have existed before the 16th century.  The question then arises, If Protestantism is true, why did it take the Church 1500 years to find it out?  For some strange reason, Protestants seem to have seldom asked themselves this question.  Indeed, as recently as 1953 we have the noted Protestant theologian and historian Oscar Cullman writing: \\"We, on the Protestant side, are beginning to understand the immense wealth that is contained in the writing of the Church Fathers and are beginning to rid ourselves of that strange conception of the Church's history that claims that, with the exception of a few sects, there was a total eclipse of the Gospel between the second and sixteenth centuries.\\"  The remarkable thing to me about this quote is that it acknowledges that it took Protestantism 400 years to discover it had no heritage, except the writings of the Catholic Church, which it initially rejected.      On the theological side, N. T. Wright (along with Ed Sanders and Ben Meyer) has definitively shown in What St. Paul Really Said and in The Climax of the Covenant that Paul can't be made to have said what the Reformers said he said, namely, that Justification should primarily be understood as the divine imputation of Christ's righteousness to the sinner, taking place under some heavenly juridical circumstances.  Indeed, as Noll acknowledges, Protestants are coming to understand the difficulties in sustaining a Reformed understanding of Justification, just as they are coming to realize that Catholics have always affirmed that it is God who Justifies sinners.  The dispute really hasn't been about Justification as much as it has been about what Faith means.  For Protestants, Faith has traditionally meant assent to the Gospel message; for Catholics, Faith has meant not only assent to the Gospel message but also entrance into the Body of Christ and faithfulness to it and its Head, Jesus Christ.  From a Catholic perspective, it appears that the authorshave a fairly adequate understanding both of the Catholic position and what still prevents full acceptance of it by Evangelicals, but they seem insufficiently aware of the erosion to the classic Protestant position that has occurred as a consequence of the work of Wright and as a result of a better formulation of the Catholic position by its theologians.    The authors do seem to have grasped the idea that what most deeply and significantly divides Protestant Evangelicals and Catholics is a different concept of the Church.  But even here, I'm not sure they've really put their finger on it.  For a Catholic, the unvarying record of Scripture and early Church writings establishes beyond a doubt that Jesus Christ intended not only to establish the Church as a visible, institutional continuation of his ministry, but passed on to it some of the divine prerogatives of his ministry (always, it must be remembered, acting in His name, He Himself being the Real Minister), such as the keys, the forgiveness of sins, and the consecration of the Eucharistic gifts.  Protestants do not believe the Church has been given such prerogatives, nor do they believe it was established by Christ, despite the fact that Catholic understandings about the Church, its structure, sacraments, and ministry arose very early and without dispute within the Church itself.  For a Protestant the Church is a consequence of the believer's Justification by God by divine decree.  It is the fellowship of all those who share this experience of Justification.  The problem with this position is that it reduces Christianity to a theory of how Atonement works.  The Catholic position, on the other hand, is rooted in an understanding that Christianity is the coming to fruition of God's eternal plan worked out in history in the person of Jesus Christ and continued in his divine/historical Body, the Church.	2005-07-24
US	44820013	R1629UYJ4F6IH1	1586170236	886424351	The Word, Church And Sacrament: In Protestantism And Catholicism	Books	5	53	54	N	Y	A great and irenic introduction . . .	. . . to the differences between Protestantism and Catholicism in three key areas.  Bouyer, a French Catholic convert from Lutheranism, has written more than 40 books over the years, perhaps the best known being The Spirit and Forms of Protestantism.  He also has a wonderful book on the Church, The Church of God, a remarkable book on the history of mysticism, The Christian Mystery: From Pagan Myth to Christian Mysticism, and many other books of both great learning and brilliant reflection. <br /> <br />Although writing as a Catholic convert, one of Bouyer's aims is to present as clearly as possible the insights of the Protestant view on Word, Church, and Sacrament.  This is both to show that there are many points in common between Catholic and Protestant understandings, but also to show that, in a sense, Catholicism has not only the capacity to embrace everything true in Protestantism, but to complete those truths with fuller understandings.   <br /> <br />Another remarkable thing Bouyer accomplishes is to affirm the necessity of the Reformation on account of the abuses that had arisen in the Medieval Church, and even to acknowledge the accuracy of many of the impulses and insights of the Reformers, while still maintaining the integrity of the overall Catholic understanding. <br /> <br />French Catholics seem to have an incredible gift of speaking the truth in love.  One thinks of the late Jean Guitton, whose book The Church and the Gospel, sadly no longer available, was perhaps the definitive treatment of the question, How does the gospel endure in time?  More recently, one thinks of Jean-Luc Marion's God Without Being and the remarkable writings of Rene Girard.  These authors, perhaps more than any others, have found a way to write books both of deep learning and greatness of spirit.  <br /> <br />In a way, this little book provides a wonderful introduction to the somewhat neglected writings of the great modern French Catholic thinkers.  Greatly rewards careful reading.	2004-12-21
US	44820013	R270A4SBMVR6D7	0785260463	856576592	Breaking the Da Vinci Code: Answering the Questions Everybody's Asking	Books	5	120	134	N	N	Brilliant stuff	Darrell Bock is that rarity--a conservative evangelical historian/New Testament scholar who is as irenic as he is thorough. Moreover, he's completely familiar with postmodern approaches to historiography and philosophy--something also rare among evangelical scholars (although, it must be noted, with writers like Kevin Vanhooser coming to the fore, that is increasingly becoming a thing of the past). <br /> <br />All in all, of the many books out there seeking to get at the real truth behind Dan Brown's international blockbuster, The Da Vinci Code, Bock's book is the second best, just edged out by Olson and Miesel's The Da Vinci Hoax. Bock's book is so good because he possesses an extensive knowledge of what is called the New School of New Testament studies, thus properly contextualizing and laying the groundwork for a thorough discussion of The Da Vinci Code. Plus, he seems to take the challenge Brown's book presents to both historical and modern-day Christian understanding very seriously. And because he's so careful in his analysis, his conclusions rest on firm footing. <br /> <br />Bottom line, both books come to basically the same conclusion: There is little or no evidence for the claims to historical accuracy that Dan Brown presents both in The Da Vinci Code and in his subsequent interviews. The plain fact of the matter is that on every front the evidence points in the direction of historic orthodox Christianity and away from Brown's revisionist history. All the sensational claims Brown makes--from the marriage of Mary Magdalene to Jesus, to the superiority of the so-called Gnostic Gospels to the Canonical Gospels, to the idea that the deity of Jesus was a fourth-century construct of the Council of Nicea--are masterfully exposed for the frauds and fabrications they are. When the supposed historical underpinnings of The Da Vinci Code are thus revealed as fanciful, the entire superstructure of the novel comes crashing down, leaving nothing except a diaphanous construct that is almost purely the figment of Dan Brown's fervid, luxuriant imagination. <br /> <br />If you are at all interested in the question of the validity of the historical background to The Da Vinci Code, you owe it to yourself to read this masterful book.  After that, you'll probably want to get Olson and Miesel's definitive treatment.	2004-12-07
US	44820013	R12QSGJWS9DEWG	0896087271	442517864	An Ordinary Person's Guide to Empire	Books	2	17	108	N	N	Querulous musings from the lunatic left	Arundhati Roy, celebrated Indian millionaire novelist posing as an \\"ordinary person,\\" here regurgitates an unsavory stew of half-digested, fake-profound insights for her salivating brood of likeminded leftwing wannabe unfledged nestlings, who will likely swallow it whole without questioning its nonnutritive properties.   <br /> <br />One would have thought making Michael Moore look sane an impossible project, but Roy, wielding a dizzying array of florid metaphor linked to a Spockian (Dr. or Mr., it doesn't matter) pseudo-logic in service to a sledgehammer sharp wit, manages it with aplomb.  Granted, this approach can be quite amusing in the short run, say, for three or four or ten pages.  Soon, however, it begins to pale for all except true believers.  True, there's a kind of kinky intellectual frisson for the thinking impaired, but the lack of substance eventually begins to gall.   <br /> <br />Mildly interesting as a cynical deconstruction of Western democracies, the book nevertheless fails miserably as informed critique.  The author, almost completely clueless in face of true politics, economics, theology, and historiography, instead unleashes a sustained rant of wacky armchair liberal proportions seldom if ever before encountered.  Imagine an East Indian female Al Franken on steroids in possession of an occasional admittedly nice turn of phrase and, yes, considerably more functional brain cells, and you get the picture.	2004-10-14
US	44820013	RDD461AYB9OSW	0684836637	466629360	A People Adrift : The Crisis of the Roman Catholic Church in America	Books	3	24	33	N	N	I really wanted to not like this book.	As someone new to Roman Catholicism after having wandered the byways of Protestantism for lo, these untold years, I find little to attract me to the kind of Catholicism represented in this book.  For example, the book has little negative to say about the culture of dissent that has arisen in Catholicism especially after Humanae Vitae.  On the issue of artificial birth control, the author acts as if the case is definitively made for it because the vast majority of Catholics reject official Church teaching, justifying, therefore, the protest that has arisen in response to the Church's official teaching.<br /><br />Catholicism has always proceeded on the understanding that its teachings are not the product of majority rule, but rather result from a careful process of faithfully unfolding the developing meaning of Scripture and Tradition.  That is how Pope Paul VI approached the question of artificial birth control; that is how Pope John Paul II has approached the same question; that is NOT how Peter Steinfels and the vast majority of  those who favor it have approached it.  Rather, the proponents of artificial birth control in the Catholic Church (and Peter Steinfels himself) argue along these lines: it cannot be disproved by Scripture; the Church has been wrong in the past (about money lending, about slavery, etc.); the faithful embrace it.  What this line of reasoning fails to recognize is that if the same criteria had been applied to, say, Arianism in the fourth century, we would not today be Trinitarian Christians.  St. Jerome, after all, wrote that the whole world groaned to find itself Arian.  The truth is that Trinitarian Christianity was a minority position in the fourth and fifth centuries.  Nor could it definitively be proved from Scripture.  Did the Church cave in and become Arian?  No!  Brave theologians like St. Athanasius (who was severely persecuted for his stand), St. Basil, and the two St.Gregories, plus the Councils of Nicea and Chalcedon, kept at it until Arianism was defeated.<br /><br />One need only look at the kind of disordered sexuality that reigns in, say, the American Episcopal Church, which long ago caved in on the birth control issue, to see what would likely be in store for the Catholic Church if it went down the same road.  The author seems not unaware of this possibility, which is somewhat unusual for someone of his liberal persuasion, but doesn't really appear to want to think about it very deeply, and apparently hasn't thought very long and hard about the merits of conservatives' arguments on this issue.<br /><br />In the area of Catholic feminism, he seems a little more aware of its inherent disruptiveness to Catholic understandings.  This is welcome, coming from a liberal Catholic.  And on the changing patterns of faith formation and institutionalized Catholicism, he is also quite judicious.  And his discussion of the recent sex scandal is also one of the best I've read.<br /><br />However, I think he's quite far off on his discussion of Catholic liturgy and music.  Modern Catholic church music, although not perfect, is, contrary to Stenifels's assessment, generally very satisfactory.  There are many brilliant Catholic hymnists--e.g., Bernadette Farrell, Bob Hurd, M. D. Ridge, and Marty Haugen--and contemporary Catholic hymnody is generally far superior to its Protestant counterparts.  His disparagement of contemporary liturgies is also off-base, I believe.<br /><br />All in all, there are many commendable aspects to this book.  Indeed, it is certainly the best book I have ever read by a liberal Catholic.  It is also probably about the best book one can expect from a liberal Catholic journalist.  Given its presuppositions, it is on the whole judicious, well reasoned, and uncommonly irenic.  One can almost actually see oneself sitting down with persons of Steinfels's persuasion and actually working toward a Common Ground Initiative, which seems to be the overall thrust of the book: that in orderto break the present impasse that plagues the Catholic Church, namely, gridlock between liberals and conservatives, the only way forward is for them to somehow find a resolution to their disagreements.  Otherwise, Catholics will, indeed, be A People Adrift.  I don't know that this will work, but I don't think it's been tried much.  So, two cheers for Steinfels.  **1/2.k: that in order to break the present impasse that plagues the Catholic Church, namely, gridlock between liberals and conservatives, the only way forward is for them to somehow find a resolution to their disagreements.  Otherwise, Catholics will, indeed, be A People Adrift.  I don't know that this will work, but I don't think it's been tried much.  So, two cheers for Steinfels.  **1/2.	2004-10-06
US	44820013	R2G9O0Y7S4T8H1	0060587202	724200247	The Coming Catholic Church: How the Faithful Are Shaping a New American Catholicism	Books	2	52	96	N	N	The John Dominic Crossan of Catholic journalists	Well, let's see.  This is a really stupid book [...]It makes me understand why journalists are generally considered to be scum.    For example, the author ridicules Mary Ann Glendon, a perfectly respectable Harvard law professor, celebrated author, and conservative Catholic, while giving a free pass to \\"Catholics for a Free Choice,\\" a group whose name is a contradiction in terms, kinda like if there were a group called \\"Cannibals Against the Consumption of Human Flesh.\\"    You know what really irks me about this book?  The author's supposed objectivity and fairness.  Yes, he quotes both conservative Catholics and liberal Catholics, but not in any kind of even-handed way.  As in the above case, conservative Catholics are always put in a negative light, whereas liberal Catholics (with a few key exceptions, when they are so far out that only a Matthew Fox or Margaret Starbird would affirm their position) are always put in a positive light.      Not only that, this book is sensationalist and pandering: sensationalist in the way it presents information, and pandering in the way it plays to fellow journalists and the media in general.  After reading it, it made me realize how incredibly idiotic most journalists are, how craven, sold-out, and just plain dumb they are.  Proof?  Take the title of this book.  Is it an unintentional bad pun?  Who knows?  And isn't it just a little bit arrogant to think you can prognosticate about what's gonna happen with Catholicism in the next few years?  Hey, but so what?  Divining the future sells books, doesn't it?  So let's go with it, especially with the mildly prurient title.    In any case, [...] this should make the Garry Willses and David Traceys--as well as the rest of the puny but strangely influential (at least among themselves) ranks of disaffected, alienated Catholics--happy.    For a fair, balanced, nuanced look at the recent \\"Catholic troubles,\\" see George Weigel's fine book, The Courage to Be Catholic (which the author, surprise! Surprise! dismisses).	2004-09-05
US	44820013	R2TUNGYPK8PN2P	1586170341	423551510	The Da Vinci Hoax: Exposing the Errors in the Da Vinci Code	Books	5	266	289	N	N	The best of the lot	Up till now, I thought Darrell Bock's Breaking the Da Vinci Code was the best book on exposing the errors of Dan Brown's multi-million selling foolishness.  This new book is slightly better, primarily because it's more comprehensive.<br />For one thing, it extensively quotes not only the main characters in Brown's book as they relate their version of &quot;history,&quot; it also has quite a few quotes from the author himself from various interviews.  These quotes are then examined for accuracy in relation to a wide variety of expert opinion.  In every case, the quotes Brown has his characters utter, as well as his own quotes, are shown to be either simply false or the opinions of a tiny minority of authors whose views have been found wanting at the bar of history and scholarship.  This book, which is about twice as long as Bock's book (which is limited pretty much to the time before Constantine and the Council of Nicea), also covers a good deal more ground.  Topics addressed include Holy Grail myths, the real Templars, the Priory of Sion silliness, and errors in interpreting not only Leonardo's Last Supper but his take on art, the occult, and Christianity in general.  <br />If you think The Da Vinci Code--the foundations of which are a synthesis of Holy Blood, Holy Grail, The Templar Revelation, The Chalice and the Blade, Drawing Down the Moon, and the works of Margaret Starbird and other marginalized and/or discredited books--accurately depicts what really went on in Western history (which no serious person does who has any familiarity with the available materials), then you will not like any of the books debunking Dan Brown's ridiculous book, least of all this one.  But if you want to find out what really happened, this gives as complete an accounting as you'll find anywhere.<br />In sum, this critique is extensive, even exhaustive, and in the end entirely persuasive.	2004-06-25
US	44820013	R1C180657ONBJZ	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	5	14	26	N	N	Our greatest living writer	How unlikely.  A man who started out as merely a writer of thrillers, dabbled in horror, wrote some psychological terror, has slowly worked his way into becoming a first-class fabulist, a Christian myth-maker of the highest order, a worthy successor to C. S. Lewis.  And just as the first C. S. Lewis looked nothing like whatever writer we were waiting for (the next Bunyan, the next MacDonald, the next Chesterton, The next______?) when he emerged as THE Christian apologist and spokesman for the imagination for his generation, Dean Koontz looks and writes and imagines little like C. S. Lewis.  Which is as it should be.  Each generation needs its own spokesman, its own guide through the swamps, the minefields, the horrors of its particular historical situatedness.  We've had Evelyn Waugh, Graham Greene, Flannery O'Connor, Walker Percy--and each of them has made a solid, memorable, even lasting contribution.  But no one, until now, has established himself as the one writer who both nails our particular material, psychic, and spiritual landscape and provides a roadmap through it.  Yes, James Blaylock and Tim Powers, Koontz's fellow Southern California writers, friends, and co-religionists, have each written their share of brilliant Christian myths, but neither of them has captured the popular imagination in the same way Koontz has.  Nor has either of them gotten quite as explicitly Christian as Koontz has in both Odd Thomas or The Taking.<br />Koontz has been working up to this role of Christian fabulist for quite some time now.  It started, perhaps, back in 1997, with his Christopher Snow books, Fear Nothing and Seize the Night.  It continued and became significantly more evident in From the Corner of His Eye, which contained a sharpening Christian focus and some very explicitly Christian passages, most noticeably, this one: &quot;And so Agnes went alone to her bedroom and there, as on so many nights, sought the solace of the rock who was also her lamp, of the lamp who was also her high fortress, of the high fortress who was also her shepherd. She asked for mercy, and if mercy was not to be granted, she asked for wisdom to understand the purpose of her sweet boy's suffering.&quot;  It further developed in One Door Away from Heaven, By the Light of the Moon, and Odd Thomas, so much so, in the case of the last book, that, in a previous review, I came right out and called Koontz a Christian novelist.  It reaches its high point in this entirely remarkable new novel, which is a Christian myth in the form of an alien invasion story.<br />It's interesting to trace the reaction to Koontz's shift from pure action writer to Christian mythmaker.  Many readers, if the Amazon.com reviews are an accurate indication--and one has no reason to suppose they're not--are not happy with Koontz's reorientation.  Most do not specifically mention dissatisfaction with his apparent philosophical/theological reorientation, although a few speak out against his sermonizing and preaching, as they call it.  Most simply complain that they don't like these new stories, or that they want the old Koontz back, or that the last great book he wrote was Watchers or Phantoms or even Intensity, or that his style has grown too ornate, or that his books are too long (One Door Away From Heaven) or too short (The Taking), or that he's lost his ability to plot, or that he's simply recycling old storylines.<br />To me, all these objections either miss the point or are alibis.  The real reason behind most of the negative reviews of Koontz's recent work has little or nothing to do with the quality of his writing and everything to do with his shift from pure action/adventure/thriller writer to Christian fabulist.  This should hardly come as a surprise.  Probably most readers of his type of genre fiction do not come to it looking for spiritual messages, especially those of an uncompromisingly Christian character.  <br />But there's something deeper at work here.  As our culture haslost its Christian heritage and grounding, it has slowly grown to hate Christianity.  Many have unwittingly imbibed this point of view; it's almost the air they breathe.  That's where Koontz's genius comes in.  As he's written about the horrors and phantasmagoria of our modern world, he's slowly come to see that &quot;[I]t is not against human enemies that we have to struggle, but against the Sovereignties and the Powers who originate the darkness in this world, the spiritual army of evil in the heavens&quot; (Ephesians 6:12, The Jerusalem Bible).  For me, Koontz's burgeoning insight into the sources of evil ancient and modern has lent a depth and richness to his recent work, given it both a more interesting texture and a poignancy lacking in his earlier writing.<br />The Taking, a masterpiece of macabre supernatural fiction, presents Koontz at his most declamatory, with an indictment of contemporary culture as powerful and compelling as Walker Percy's Thanatos Syndrome:  the alien invasion as a Judgment on our murderous times, even as The Flood recorded in the Old Testament was a Judgment on the culture of murder back then; the protection from evil for those who will give their lives for the innocents of this world (including, by inference, the unborn), and the destruction of all others; the utter disdain for Modernism and all its works of unspeakable ugliness.<br />Yes, this book has a message, but then so do those of Dan Brown, Margaret Atwood, and Marilyn Zimmer Bradley.  The message of these writers is 180 degrees opposite of Dean Koontz's, and entirely in accord with our decadent, suppurating culture; thus, their wild popularity and cultural reverence.  The message here is one of Orthodox Christianity, a message almost universally despised and reviled by the cultural elite and, sad to say, to an ever-increasing degree, by the average person.  That is the reason for the negative reviews, not a decline in Koontz's powers as writer.	2004-06-09
US	44820013	R1CAT1JWU9MLLB	0802844456	568454935	What Saint Paul Really Said: Was Paul of Tarsus the Real Founder of Christianity?	Books	5	30	51	N	N	The end of Protestantism	There are multiple ironies at work here.  First, it is ironic that such a slight book could signal the end of Protestantism.  But that is what this thin volume does.  How?  By definitely demonstrating that the heart of Protestantism--the Reformation understanding of Justification as primarily the imputation of Christ's righteousness--is not really what St. Paul was getting at.  Honest Protestants like Alister McGrath have admitted as much, while still maintaining the &quot;usefulness&quot; of the Reformed understanding of Justification for soteriological purposes (a position that is absurd on its face).  By the way, it does no good trying to make Wright's critique go away by labeling it Covenantal Nomism, identifying it with Sanders and Dunn's New Perspective, or by simply reissuing warmed-over Protestant classics.  For the Protestant project to continue, Wright must be answered.  And so far, he hasn't been.  <br />Second, it is ironic, but perfectly understandable, that the deconstruction of the Protestant project comes from within Protestantism itself--and from the conservative not the liberal wing, at that.  How does this work?  Well, Protestantism arose as a critique of abuses in the Catholic Church.  If it is to be true to itself and its highest aspirations, it must be honest and open enough to investigate anything of substance that presents itself to its purview.  As N. T. Wright has unfolded the aims of Jesus in his magisterial projected six-volume undertaking, Christian Origins and the Question of God, the first three of which are out, certain questions have presented themselves for investigation, one of which is the relation of Jesus to the movement (and esp. to St. Paul, as the definitive spokesman for that movement) that arose after his death and resurrection.  That he has done both in this book and in The Climax of the Covenant.  Interestingly, Wright was a St. Paul scholar before he began Christian Origins, having written The Climax of the Covenant before writing The New Testament and the People of God (vol. I of Christian Origins).<br />If the Wright project succeeds, that is, if Protestantism cannot adequately answer the issues he raises, it will mean, I believe, the end of Protestantism.  Conservative evangelical Protestantism will find itself in a position of having to thematize its soteriological understandings in accordance with the new paradigm, which sees Justification not primarily as the imputation of Christ's righteousness, but as the believer's entrance into and faithfulness to the Covenant community that Jesus established.  That raises a whole series of further relevant questions, such as, What is this Covenant community?  Where can it be found?  What constitutes entering it?  What constitutes faithfulness to it?  How does the gospel endure in time?  Once these questions are carefully addressed, it will be seen that this Covenant community has existed continually and continuously from the first century A.D. through today, that it is, in fact, the Catholic Church.  The reason for being a Protestant--that is, one who protests against the Catholic Church--will have ceased to exist.<br />Perceptive Protestants, especially those of a strict Reformed orientation, have recognized the threat that Wright poses to their position, accurately understanding that acceptance of the Wright project entails the collapse of the cornerstone of Reformation thought, and thus the end of Protestantism itself.  For example, you can see this hinted at in their reviews posted here and on other Amazon pages featuring books by Wright.  And they are correct.  <br />For me personally, the writings of N. T. Wright have been a significant (though by no means the only) factor of a move from the conservative evangelical camp to the Catholic Church, where this summer I will be entering the RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults) class at our local Catholic parish, St. Peter Church of Monument, Colorado.  <br />Be that as it may,What St. Paul Really Said is among the most important works on the Christian faith ever written (along with Climax of the Covenant and the Christian Origins volumes).  Essential reading for anyone seriously interested in what has divided the Church in the West for 500 years, as well as a possible basis for ending that divide.	2004-05-07
US	44820013	R2WG1LMUCOIU2U	0785260463	856576592	Breaking the Da Vinci Code: Answering the Questions Everybody's Asking	Books	5	45	63	N	N	The definitive answer to The Code	Darrell Bock is that rarity--a conservative evangelical historian/New Testament scholar who is as irenic as he is thorough.  Moreover, he's completely familiar with postmodern approaches to historiography and philosophy--something also rare among evangelical scholars (although, it must be noted, with writers like Kevin Vanhooser coming to the fore, that is increasingly becoming a thing of the past).<br />All in all, of the many books out there seeking to get at the real truth behind Dan Brown's international blockbuster, The Da Vinci Code, Bock's book is the best, just edging out Garlow and Jones's Cracking Da Vinci's Code.  Bock's book is better because he demonstrates a greater knowledge of what is called the New School of New Testament studies, thus properly contextualizing and laying the groundwork for a thorough discussion of The Da Vinci Code.  Plus, he seems to take the challenge Brown's book presents to both historical and modern-day Christian understanding more seriously.  And, he's a bit more careful in his analysis, thus his conclusions rest on firmer footing.<br />Bottom line, both books come to basically the same conclusion:  There is little or no evidence for the claims to historical accuracy that Dan Brown presents both in The Da Vinci Code and in his subsequent interviews.  The plain fact of the matter is that on every front the evidence points in the direction of historic orthodox Christianity and away from Brown's revisionist history.  All the sensational claims Brown makes--from the marriage of Mary Magdelene to Jesus, to the superiority of the so-called Gnostic Gospels to the Canonical Gospels, to the idea that the deity of Jesus was a fourth-century construct of the Council of Nicea--are masterfully exposed for the frauds and fabrications they are.  When the supposed historical underpinnings of The Da Vinci Code are thus revealed as fanciful, the entire superstructure of the novel comes crashing down, leaving nothing except a diaphanous construct that is almost purely the figment of Dan Brown's fervid, luxuriant imagination.<br />If you are at all interested in the question of the validity of the historical background to The Da Vinci Code, you owe it to yourself to read this masterful book.	2004-04-21
US	44820013	R2CSC4TT79AFTX	078144165X	840969768	Cracking Da Vinci's Code: You've Read the Fiction, Now Read the Facts	Books	5	128	190	N	N	The Code Decoded	A new category of book has arisen during our troubled, postmodern times.  Often widely acclaimed, sometimes extremely popular, always playing fast and loose with known and verified history, these books claim to have uncovered the real facts about a particular topic, be it Christian origins (books by John Dominic Crossan, Elaine Pagels, and various members of the Jesus Seminar), the Catholic Church's relationship to the Jews (John Carroll), or Christianity's understanding of homosexuality (John Boswell).  What they really do is engage in a kind of disreputable approach to research, what I term \\"advocacy scholarship.\\"  They share a common understanding: If their core insight is valid (or just fashionable)--e.g., Jesus came to destroy \\"the brokered kingdom\\" (Crossan), Gnostic Christianity is just as true as Orthodox Christianity (Pagels), homosexuality is a valid lifestyle (Boswell), traditional Catholicism is repressive and enslaving (Carroll)--they are justified in using disreputable practices such as extremely selective use of sources, false attribution, \\"cooking\\" the data, and just plain falsification of history.<br />These books all have one thing in common: they claim to present an \\"alternate history,\\" one that has been suppressed by powerful forces of tyranny, usually for political reasons.  The alternate history they present will enable readers to free themselves from tyrannies of their own times, be they religious, political, or social.  Seeking to place themselves in a long line of freedom movements, they borrow the language of social and political liberation and misapply it to their topic at hand.  I call these works fake history.  They find an audience (sometimes incredibly large) because of two factors that plague our postmodern times: 1) nearly ubiquitous ignorance on the part ofaverage \\"educated\\" individuals in the West; and 2) the rise of a view that all narratives are equally valid.<br />Perhaps the worst of all these books is Dan Brown's wildly fantastical work posing as history, The Da Vinci Code.  Let us be clear up front.  Dan Brown has every right to write a novel that presents his understanding of Christian origins, the glories of paganism, the marvels of the sacred feminine, the horrors of Orthodox Christianity, and the liberating power of goddess religion.  My objection to his work has nothing to do with whether or not he is free to express his opinion on such topics.  My objection to him and his methods is that he claims to present a true, sustainable, historically accurate picture of what really has happened when in reality there is little or no evidence for his claims, although he acts as if there is, both throughout the book and in subsequent appearances on talk shows and in interviews.  This is simply disreputable.  He is nothing more than a somewhat higher class of snake-oil salesman, a shill for discredited ideas, a mouthpiece for historical inanity that cannot be supported at the most basic level of serious inquiry.  Somehow, he has managed to pull of this shameful scam, due largely to massive ignorance on the part of his readers combined with a deep desire on their part to find an alibi for their own wayward impulses toward license which are celebrated and blessed in this scurrilous work.<br />Thank goodness for Messieurs Garlow and Jones.  Men of no little standing in the world of thought and letters (one with a Ph.D. in historical theology from Drew University, the other with a Ph.D. from Princeton), authors of a baker's dozen of books, they have taken up the gauntlet thrown down by Dan Brown and produced a very readable response to--let's not mince words here--his idiotic book.<br />What I admire about Cracking Da Vinci's Code is the care the authors take in exposing this fraudulent work, all the while maintaining a cheerful good humor and writing in a very popular and approachable style.  True, they have little time for Brown's fake history, but they have the good manners to engage it seriously and without rancor at the level of the adequacy of its presentation of facts (something I find impossible to do when faced with nonsense of this kind).  This would hardly have been necessary if the book had been written in a different genre, such as alternate history science fiction--but then it would've lost its cache, its frisson, its stance (albeit false) as authentic history, wouldn't've it?<br />Along the way, they clearly show that there is absolutely no foundation for its appalling claims, such as the idea that the doctrine of the divinity of Jesus came about as the result of a politically motivated vote by the Council of Nicaea; that alternative, \\"Gnostic\\" gospels were written earlier than the four gospels in the New Testament and present a truer understanding of who Jesus was than the Christian gospels; that there is evidence that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene and that they had a child; that the Church has suppressed this evidence because it would undermine its power and break the hold it has on the faithful; that the Church killed more than five million women in a brutal attempt at \\"reeducation\\"; and lots more similar idiocy.<br />I have only two quibbles, and these are entirely minor.  First, I don't think the book are fairly describes the post-Constantine Church; and second, I'm not entirely taken with their running chapter-opening narrative concerning a young woman who is struggling to make up her mind about the value of The Da Vinci Code.  Regarding the first quibble, it has become fairly standard for Protestant church historians to discredit the post-Constantine church, so it's not unexpected (although one might wish for a more nuanced approach).  Regarding the second, I can see the usefulness to situate the dilemma Brown's book poses for the historically illiterate by creating a story to help readers find existential connecting points; for me, however, it was a little heavy-handed.  <br />Nevertheless, this is quite a good book, certainly worth checking out, especially for those who, credulously, have taken the historicity of The Da Vinci Code at face value.  4 and 1/2 stars.	2004-04-08
US	44820013	R3GY4JAB9P3X4R	0553802496	471304969	Odd Thomas	Books	5	13	22	N	N	Dean Koontz, Christian novelist?	The author of Watchers, Night Chills, Phantoms, and lots of other horror novels, plus such high-pitched thrill-rides as Intensity and Sole Survivor, a Christian novelist?  Hmmmm.<br />It's been building a long time, this sly Christian sensibility in Koontz's fiction.  For example, here's a passage (page 419 of the mass market paperback edition) from his December 2000 release, From the Corner of His Eye:  \\"And so Agnes went alone to her bedroom and there, as on so many nights, sought the solace of the rock who was also her lamp, of the lamp who was also her high fortress, of the high fortress who was also her shepherd.  She asked for mercy, and if mercy was not to be granted, she asked for wisdom to understand the purpose of her sweet boy's suffering.\\"<br />Whew!  That's as Christian as anything Frank Peretti or Steven R. Lawhead or Ted Dekker has ever written.<br />But his latest book, Odd Thomas, goes even beyond that.  It is veritably drenched in a traditional Christian worldview.  The twenty-year-old eponymous protagonist, one of Koontz's greatest characters, is gifted, graced, with supernatural abilities:  he can see dead persons, ghosts, who haven't yet passed on to their final resting place (or place of torment, as may be).  He can also see \\"bodachs,\\" wraithlike, insubstantial creatures who seem to congregate wherever great human suffering--mass murders, calamitous natural disasters--is about to occur.  And he has an uncanny sense about evil people; if he has met them and discerned their malign spirit, he can locate them by means of \\"dowsing for\\" their evil intentions, which, for him, hang in the air like a spoor.  He also posesses more mundane gifts, which he knows he could use, e.g., to make a lot of money in Las Vegas.  But being a person of conscience, he eschews the easy path to power and riches, and instead chooses to live his life as a simple fry cook in the California desert town of Pico Mundo, helping out where he can, and generally trying to live a life of virtue.<br />Occasionally, opportunities arise for him to use his gifts for the good of humanity.  This comes at a cost: he must generally keep his eldritch endowments to himself, lest he be regarded as even more odd than he is, and his solitary exercise of them often puts him in harm's way.  The Pico Mundo police chief is a confidant, although he struggles to square Odd's preternatural boone with a fundamentally naturalist outlook.  But there've been enough times Odd's been right to convince Chief Porter that his gifts are real.<br />His gal, Bronwen \\"Stormy\\" Llewellyn, a smoldering, dark-eyed beauty with whom a fortune-telling machine has declared his destiny will ever and always be entwined, knows most of his secrets, and this arcane knowledge does nothing but bond her more closely to him, because she recognizes and affirms his strange mission on this sad earth.<br />But when Bob Robertson, aka, Fungus Man, comes to town with malign and nefarious intentions and secret partners, Odd Thomas must stand in the gap between him and the most hideous events that unfold, seemingly, just beyond his ability to thwart them.<br />I won't give away what, rather remarkably, happens.  I will say that the ending is controversial, though entirely satisfying to me.  <br />This is a very important book although not necessarily a great one.  It's important because it exactly captures the intersection of divine grace and human will.  That is, it bridges the gap between Christian supernaturalist fiction and conventional horror fiction.  And although it is not a great book, on account of some rather too neat plotting devices, it is nevertheless very significant because of the way the author addresses the question of divine destiny and human will, somewhat reminiscent of what Ted Dekker does in Blink.<br />Moreover, it is filled with wry observations about the human condition, wonderful and memorable minor characters, and a deft and exact evocation of life in a California desert town.  These more than overcome whatever plotting legerdemain Koontz (not ineptly) employs.<br />My own feeling is that Koontz's (rather recent?) Christian sensibility hasn't yet found its ideal fictional vehicle.  When it does, watch out--he will write the Great American Christian Commercial Novel.  <br />For now, let us luxuriate in the prodigal novelistic virtues he possesses, not gainsaying minor flaws, but celebrating Koontz's glorious vision and encouraging him to even greater triumphs.	2003-12-16
US	44820013	R2YHKAVIY9WAIF	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	17	43	N	N	Dan Brown, Charlatan	The title of my review says it all.  But for those of you out there who think Dan Brown has uncovered the truth about Christian origins--and there seem to be an astounding number of otherwise sensible, intelligent people who think he's done just that--I'll explain myself.<br />It's not that he doesn't have every right to construct a thriller based on perhaps the most egregiously bogus material ever assembled; one just doesn't expect the author (and his fawning followers) to act as if it's plausible and use it as a stick to beat up on an institution as venerable as the Catholic Church.  Really, his book is in a category with Erich von Daniken and the people who think the Holocaust never occurred. But hey, these are the days of &quot;advocacy scholarship&quot; a la James Carroll, Garry Wills, Elaine Pagels, John Boswell, John Dominic Crossan, and their ilk.  These are also the days, apparently, of open season on the Catholic Church.<br />Which is not to say that, despite its absurd premise so ardently put forward, the book is without merit; hence the additional star.  One must admit that Dan Brown can tell a story; that he writes engaging characters; that his pacing is deft; that his story arc and architecture rock.  Now, if only he could be won over to the side of the angels, but, alas, I fear that is not to be: There's simply too much of the chest-thumping alienated Catholic about his work for that to happen.<br />So, if you must read this nonsense, read it with eyes open, preferably alongside of N. T. Wright's The New Teatament and the People of God, Jesus and the Victory of God, and The Resurrection of the Son of God.	2003-12-04
US	44820013	R2GDWYLGWV9YUT	0312983220	931157258	Area 7 (Scarecrow Series)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	If there's such a thing as a pure action novel . . .	. . . Matthew Reilly owns the franchise.<br />I may end up sounding just a bit schizophrenic here; after all, I'm a guy who used the term &quot;gratuitous action&quot; (the first time I am aware of its use) to describe Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.  Yet I like Matthew Reilly--who throws a ton more action sequences into his fiction than even Jerry Bruckheimer--and didn't like Temple of Doom.<br />Why?  First of all, Indiana Jones was never JUST about action--the Harrison Ford Character was a cool, noirish thirties dude, nothing like Shane &quot;Scarecrow&quot; Schofield, Reilly's hero--in the way that a Matthew Reilly novel IS just about action.  When they turned the Indiana Jones series that direction with the second installment, a delicate balance between character, sensibility, and action was upset (and never fully recovered, although The Last Crusade was a good corrective).  Second, Reilly really is a master of the action thriller in a way that those who made Temple of Doom aren't.  Third--and this seems a little counter-intuitive, but I think it's right--pure action works better in a book than on the screen, for two reasons, I think: In a book, you can describe and depict things that would probably be impossible to pull off, or at least would come off seeming implausible or contrived on the screen.  Second, if one were to make a film of Area 7, it would either be so frenetically paced as to be unwatchable, or would be substantially altered to make it play on the screen.<br />Overall, I'm a Reilly fan.  I like his singlemindedness.  I like Scarecrow Schofield.  I (generally) like the way he sets up his scenes and pulls them off.  I like the amount of jeopardy he packs into his books.  And I like his high concept.<br />I would've given this book five stars, except, for me, two things drag it down.  I thought the racial angle was a cliche, and I thought he went over the top with the release of the condemned killers and the animals from their cells.  I do generally like the way he manufactures mayhem, but these two things just didn't work for me.<br />As for other criticisms noted at this site, I don't read this kind of fiction for rounded characters, for emotional realism, or even for plausibility.  There is a cartoonish aspect to any Reilly thriller, but I at least don't expect or ask for anything else.  So long as he pulls it off.  Which I think he does.<br />4 and 1/2 stars.	2003-09-17
US	44820013	R1I9CPKH7H0QMC	0451209443	786063504	Sphere of Influence	Books	3	0	1	N	N	What's up with Kyle Mills?	Although the latest Mark Beaman adventure features an engaging plot, sympathetic characters, an especially attractive villain, and a certain amount of plausibility in these post-Soviet, Arab-terrorist times, the protagonist has become so disillusioned that he ends up jettisoning his last ounce of patriotism, becoming almost a complete and absolute moral pragmatist, which is presented as not only a smart move career-wise, but probably in the long run beneficial to his own country specifically and humankind in general.  Are we really to believe the messages this not unpleasant but terminally cynical novel offers: That drug-dealing criminals help promote world stability; that the various US governmental agencies are so corrupt that there's little to distinguish our system from assorted Asian dictatorships and Islamic fundamentalists; that the world is run by gangsters?  Is that how those in the know see things?  Or is this morose sensibility just some kind of turbo-powered device to pump a little juice into a flagging international thriller genre?<br />OK, I understand that there's a kind of hardbitten sensibility not unrelated to thirties noir LA crime fiction, or even a Philip Dickian world-weariness, that goes with the the territory in the neo-international thriller.  But isn't Mark Beaman a little over the top?  Is this just a pissing contest to see who can construct the most cynical SOB protagonist yet still have him be a Pretty Cool Guy?  Is this the Whore With a Heart of Gold transposed into the international thriller key?<br />I don't know, but I for me this vibe's wearing a little thin.	2003-09-14
US	44820013	RW3MRWT6JHL8A	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	2	142	1030	N	N	If this is the Bible of the Left, I prefer the real Bible	Is Al Franken funny?  Yes, if you think name-calling and junior high-school-level sneering is funny.<br />Is Al Franken accurate?  Yes, if you think tendentious and extremely selective use of sources plus the mere mention of the word &quot;Harvard&quot; in conjunction with &quot;researchers&quot; constitutes accuracy.<br />Is Al Franken witty?  Yes, if you think clotted, nearly unreadable prose equals wit.<br />Apparently, many Americans have concluded, despite massive evidence (albeit unwitting) to the contrary, that Al Franken is funny, accurate, and witty.  Then again, in these post-modern times I guess that depends on what the meaning of the word &quot;is&quot; is.<br />One extra star for managing to hoodwink hundreds of thousands of Americans into buying this idiocy.	2003-09-06
US	44820013	R1ICPGYC1425R8	0849943728	822018095	Three	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Watershed for Christian fiction	With Ted Dekker's new novel, THR3E, we see a clear dividing line in Christian world-view fiction:  Everything that came before, and now THR3E.  With the release of this one genre-defining novel, the game has changed.  Finally, we have something that can compete with--and even surpass--the very finest of the general market action/suspense/thriller books.  <br />It's been a long time coming, but it's finally here.  And Mr. Dekker has undergone quite an apprenticeship leading up to THR3E--from Heaven's Wager through Blink, six books, with each successive one being better than the last.  It helps that he started at quite a high level.  It also helps that he's completely dedicated to his craft, to honing his chops, to learning everything he can, to always striving to become a better writer.<br />I have waited more than three decades for this to happen--for a writer of commercial fiction to arise from the Christian subculture and write something that everybody, no matter who they are, can rejoice about.  Let me tell you, this is the real deal.  I'm not going to say anything about the story because it's best if you encounter it totally on your own, without any clues about what's going on.  <br />Gets my vote for the best book of 2003, and maybe of the new millennium.	2003-05-18
US	44820013	R3H56ROB010SQP	1578565308	867411445	Winner Take All (Marcus Glenwood Series #3)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	One of the best commercial novels I have ever read . . .	. . . and I've read a lot. This is Davis Bunn's third thriller for WaterBrook, an imprint of Random House. The first two, The Great Divide and Drummer in the Dark, were very good, but this book is really something special. There's a depth and richness to it seldom found in commercial fiction.<br />What really sets this book apart is Bunn's ability to seamlessly combine serious moral, spiritual, and psychological themes with an extremely fast moving and deftly plotted storyline. Others have written similar books--some of David Morrell's later work, Dean Koontz's last three or four books, David Lindsey (sans the spiritual element)--but few have been as successful as Bunn, in my view.<br />One of the great pleasures of this book is the contrast between the main female characters. Both suffer from major childhood/teen trauma. Both have experienced the highest levels of international fame and acceptance. Both enter adulthood badly wounded and desperately in need of true love and care. One somehow finds the courage to seek it out, while the other remains completely self-consumed. A key scene--indeed, one that the entire book hinges on--occurs when the two meet and one is able to resist the almost overwhelming temptation to fall back into her former life. This scene is simply marvelous and brings front and center Bunn's prodigious talent: fraught with hair-raising peril, depicting a world impossibly glamorous, and perfectly pitched, it is the kind of reader-friendly tour de force that many authors try to pull off, but few have the chops to absolutely nail.<br />Another thing I really liked about Winner Take All is the grand rogue gallery. Hamper Caisse (great name), Sephus Jones (another great name), and a third individual who shall go unnamed (not to spoil things for those who haven't read it but want to) are about as colorful and nasty a combination of characters as one is ever likely to meet. Indeed, I've read hundreds of commercial thrillers, and seldom have encountered such creatively malevolent characters.<br />My only complaint is that I had a little trouble getting into the book. You may experience this too. If you do, keep with it; things eventually heat up way past the boiling point. Plus, there are some very skillfully handled plot twists and character revelations that make for great reading pleasure.<br />All in all, I'd say this is a major advance for T. Davis Bunn in particular and religious-based commercial fiction in general.	2003-04-04
US	44820013	R2J5R70W4SM58R	052594656X	499017825	The Big Gamble: A Kevin Kerney Novel (Kevin Kerney Novels)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Michael McGarrity-- finest of our Southwest mystery writers?	I'd say yes, based on his last three works, The Judas Judge, Under the Color of Law, and his latest, The Big Gamble.  A unique aspect of his work is that he's one of the few Southwest mystery/police-procedural writers who writes primarily from an Anglo perspective--and unapologetically so.  His protagonist, Kevin Kerney, likely modeled after himself (both are former Santa Fe, NM, law officers, both Irish, both have alliterative names), comes across as a kind of 21st century New Mexican Philip Marlowe.  <br />And like Raymond Chandler brilliantly evoked thirties LA, McGarrity flawlessly brings to life turn-of-the-century New Mexico, esp. Santa Fe.  There's a kind of slightly faded magic about New Mexico (aka, \\"Land of Enchantment\\") that McGarrity nails: nouveaux riches Santa Fean carpetbaggers cheek by jowl with struggling Native American reservation denizens; Anglo art-colony poseurs rubbing up against Hispanic hustlers; Los Alamos science nerds clashing with Espaola low riders--all set against the backdrop of the mesmerizing desert Southwest.  Thus, the countryside and its motley populace (rightly) becomes almost a second protagonist.<br />I especially like this story because it delicately probes Kerney's problematic relationship with his estranged son, Clayton, a half-breed that he only recently discovered was his but who has followed his father's footsteps into a career in New Mexican law enforcement.  As they are thrown together to try to solve a curiously linked contemporary homicide and decade-old murder, they slowly develop a grudging (esp. on Clayton's part) respect for each other.  Meanwhile, Kerney must navigate the perilous shoals of his relationship with the love of his life, Sara, a career Air Force officer.<br />I won't give the plot away, but it involves some high-level New Mexican politicians involved in some rather nasty goings-on.  If there are a few missteps (a rather ideological rant against political conservatism; a somewhat illogical flare-upbetween McGarrity and Sara), the novel nevertheless represents some of the finest police procedural work being written today.  Throw in the glories of the American Southwest, and you've got a recipe for some very engaging reading.	2003-02-26
US	44820013	R3S1K2H1Z2Y5PO	0553582755	598224178	One Door Away from Heaven	Books	5	3	8	N	N	A book of the greatest importance	We live in strange times.  A man of letters, one who hangs out with the New York literati and who, of all things, claims to be a Christian, writes The Cider House Rules, a thinly disguised apology for abortion.  A man known as a horror writer, one who seldom if ever is regarded as an Important Author, who plies his trade writing commercial fiction, a man who (as far as I know) has never made any public professions of faith, writes an absolutely stunning novel blasting the merchants of death who pose as compassionate relievers of suffering.<br />What gives?  Why is John Irving, who ought to know better, the defender of the indefensible, while Dean Koontz, journeyman ...(not my opinion of him, but how hes often regarded), gets the whole relativistic ethics thing straight?  I dont know.  But Im sure glad for Dean Koontz, even as I am deeply ashamed of John Irving.<br />For me, One Door Away from Heaven stands in relation to the Koontz canon as The Thanatos Syndrome stands in relation to the Walker Percy canon.  Neither is the authors best book, but each may be and probably is his most important one.  Because the Planned Parenthoods and Peter Singers of this world are our worst enemies.  They must be exposed at all costs.  And it takes a very special kind of writer to do it.  Koontz has the right stuff.  May his tribe increase.<br />One Door Away from Heaven is probably too big and sprawling and unruly to ever be considered great literature.  But it has an indomitableness, an unstoppability, about it.  It just keeps coming, like a righteous juggernaut, right atcha.  It also has almost a kind of holiness about it--not in the least self-aggrandizing, but focused entirely on the good, the beautiful, the true, the eternal.  Yes, it must look into the essence of evil, and that means a good deal of material that is dark, but you always know the author intentions are pure and good.  The contrast between Leilani Klonk, physically deformed but possessed of a heartand a humanity that can scarcely be contained in her damaged vessel of a body, and her psuedofather, Preston Claudius Maddoc, aka Dr. Doom, physically perfect, uncommonly intelligent, ethical murderer, shows this with absolute clarity.<br />Moreover, theres a wonderful playful quality about the book which comes out most clearly in Curtis Hammonds inability to grasp the nuances of normal human socializing but also, remarkably, in the very nub of its message, which has everything to do with the title, and which is also brilliantly on display in Curtiss unusual plan to save our world.<br />All in all, I am in awe of Dean Koontz and what he is doing in elevating the homely genre of suspense/thriller into a startling and revelatory vehicle of socio-religious observation and commentary.	2003-01-11
US	44820013	R3LZIPOQB70YAN	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	4	19	28	N	N	One of the funnier books to come along in a while	A little context:  I don't listen to Michael Savage.  Nor do I listen to Rush Limbaugh.  I DO like Sean Hannity, though not having cable and without his radio show in my market, I don't regularily get to hear him.<br />The Savage Nation does represent what might be called &quot;the far Right.&quot;  However, I find Mr. Savage's ideas, many of which I do not agree with, no more implausible or offensive than the typical utterances of persons like Bill Maher or (heaven help us) Michael Moore.  Yet Maher and Moore are seldom regarded as loonies, as is Savage.  Why not?  Why do fringe lefties get a free pass and fringe righties get trashed?  Because the information elite, deeply in bed or at least fellow-travelers with the likes of Maher and Moore, never call down their own.<br />Personally, I'm thrilled someone like Michael Savage can air and publish his views.  We get enough of the semi-loonie left through outlets too numerous to count; it's refreshing to hear from the semi-loonie right every once in a while.	2003-01-07
US	44820013	R2KFSY1OV85NJO	084994371X	964386491	Blink	Books	5	46	59	N	N	Dekker's becoming one of our best novelists . . .	. . . and Blink is his best yet.  Since the story was conceived several years ago, comments about the book exploiting Islam seem inapt.  In any case, Dekker's setting of his story against a radical clash of cultures and religions is more for the purpose of specific thematic development than to capitalize on current events.<br />As his former literary agent, I've read everything that Mr. Dekker has published (and some of what has yet to be published), and I'm seeing a steady development by him in all areas of novel writing:  The concepts are becoming more highly developed and tantalizing; the characters are rounding out; his pacing has greatly improved; there's more verisimilitude; and his prose is taking on a beautiful symmetry.  In other words, after this, his sixth novel, he is coming into his own:  he has found his own unique storytelling voice.<br />Look for even greater things to come from this author.	2003-01-07
US	44820013	R39U3F4AOYHEOZ	0805068937	824124053	Joined at the Heart: The Transformation of the American Family	Books	2	42	79	N	N	Something very strange is going on in this book . . .	. . . something that almost can't be put into words, but I'll give it a shot:  As simply as I can say it, the book's essence, its soul, belies it title.  Al 'n' Tipper come off as anything BUT joined at the heart.  There's some weird discontinuity between their marriage, their family, their thesis, and the book's title.  <br />Let me be clear:  I come from a totally different perspective than the Gores.  I'm thrilled he's not in the White House.  I think their ideas on the family in America are fundamentally wrong.  But there's some other weird thing happening in this book that goes beyond all that.  Their take on the family, for all its nuanced social science grounding, just seems like a steaming pile of do-do.  <br />What's going on here?  I think this book strangely and unwittingly uncovers the bane of modern existence:  A case of ideology trumping common sense.  <br />What I mean is this:  Whereas their data all tend to point in the direction of a recovery of tradional values vis-a-vis the family, their conclusions point in the opposite direction--toward the accomodation of the family in relation to modern corrosive values that, indeed, threaten its very existence.<br />Thank God this confused individual has decided not to seek the Presidency in 2004.	2003-01-06
US	44820013	RZOY3YJOD9528	0553502719	977865510	By the Light of the Moon	Books	5	89	98	N	N	Brilliant stuff	Ever since the Christopher Snow novels (Fear Nothing and Seize the Night), Dean Koontz has been perfecting his own sub-genre, the spiritual thriller.  His work has fully come to fruition in his two latest books, One Door Away from Heaven and By the Light of the Moon.<br />It's interesting to compare the latter with Michael Crichton's Prey.  Both deal with nanotechnology.  Both are in the thriller genre.  That's where the similarity ends.  Crichton is a Cassandra.  Koontz is a prophet of the good news (not really the Christian gospel, but something very close).  The thing that most clearly separates Koontz from Crichton is the former's deep concern for people, especially those who would generally be considered the dregs of society-trailer park denizens, kids with terminal illnesses, dead-end divorcees.  These are the people through whom salvation comes, not the scientists, not the theologians, not the cultural arbiters.<br />By the Light of the Moon, perhaps Koontz' most accomplished novel to date, concerns three misfits, Dylan O'Conner and his adult autistic brother, Shep, and Jillian Jackson, a third-rate stand-up comic.  These three share a common, albeit bizarre, thread of recent personal history: each has been infected with an unknown substance, administered by a benign-looking although ego-maniacally demented mad scientist, that will either destroy them or endow them with remarkable powers-or perhaps both.  They find themselves thrown together and on the run, from mysterious forces who want nothing less that their termination, with extreme prejudice.  <br />What happens is a series a serio-comic chase scenes, personal revelations, and general Koontz-inspired mayhem and high jinks, all ending in a remarkable turn-around-is-fair-play denouement, featuring the most memorable minor character, apparent UFO-obsessed radio-talk-show-host Parish Lantern (great name, btw), since Kilgore Trout.  <br />By perfecting the relational-friendly spiritual thriller, Koontz has done us all a great service:  He has figured out how to insinuate deep messages into the most unlikely set of story circumstances, all the while entertaining our socks off.  For that, I believe he has become the most important novelist of his generation.  <br />On a personal note, I am the father of an autistic son approximately Shep's age, and I must say I was very moved by Koontz' conception and  portrayal of an individual suffering from this condition.  My son, Christopher (his name means \\"Christ-bearer\\"), is about at the same functioning level, and Koontz has exactly caught the mystery and much of the nuance of autism.  Except, perhaps, for the depiction of autism by Dustin Hoffman in \\"The Rain Man\\" (based on the son of famous autism researcher, Bernard Rimland), Shep O'Conner is the most accurately rendered fictional autistic character I have seen.<br />Thank you, Dean Koontz, for your quirky, idiosyncratic vision.  May it ensue in many more such inspired creations.	2002-12-23
US	44820013	R3UP5ZQJUZ9FDZ	0060514558	921401083	Let Freedom Ring: Winning the War of Liberty over Liberalism	Books	5	12	19	N	N	You know you've hit a nerve . . .	. . . when the know-nothing Left goes into apoplexy.  Hannity has written a perfectly reasonable book, nothing like the inept yet vicious screeds coming from the likes of Michael Moore and James Carville, nothing like the pouty kiss-and-tell fake insider look at Washington by David \\"Judas\\" Brock.  Yet the only criticism the Left can mount is ad hominem attacks.  <br />Memo to dyed-in-the-wool liberals:  Get a plan, or find yourselves on the dust-heap of history.	2002-12-11
US	44820013	R2VE6932ZP832Y	0765307154	81417598	The Last Jihad (Political Thrillers Series #1)	Books	5	107	117	N	N	Estimable effort from a writer to watch	Joel Rosenberg, a political columnist for World magazine, has written quite an amazing first novel.<br />One of the interesting things about it is that it proves evangelical Christians can write international thrillers and get published by New York publishers if their stories are strong enough.  And this one is.  Rosenberg, not really a Washington \\"insider,\\" nevertheless either knows enough about Beltway affairs or has done his research sufficiently to render the world of Washington in all its tawdry splender very effectively.<br />The author also writes quite astonishing action scenes, e.g., the opening sequence where a Gulfstream G4 crashes into the President's limo, the shootout in the former top Mossad agent's house in Jerusalem, and the sniper sequence prior to the memorial service for the secret service agents.  <br />Not everything works optimally.  I felt the main character's expertise--the ability to see patterns in the most obscure details, put them together, and forcast events--could've been more effectively used in the last half of the book.  Also, there's not a whole lot of chemistry between the hero and his purported love interest.  <br />But these are quibbles.  All in all, it's a fine effort.	2002-11-30
US	44820013	R17Y2BPUEGOJW3	0385501765	236780132	American Exorcism: Expelling Demons in the Land of Plenty	Books	3	15	27	N	N	OK for what it is, but what it is isn't much	The problem here is one of (hermeneutical) access.  If one of the goals is to find out whether or not demons exist, which the author plainly recognizes as an aspect of his purposes (esp. in his concluding chapter), the hermeneutics of skeptical open-mindedness, or open-minded skepticism (the author's stated approach), just isn't up to the job.  One would have thought an author as sophisticated and worldy-wise as Mr. Cuneo would have been aware of the limitations of a secular/phenomenology-based methodology to get at a problem (an assessment of the existence or non-existence of demons) that is at best only partially accessible to such an approach.  Thus when he declares that there were no spectacular demonic manifestations during 50 or so actual exorcisms to which he was an eyewitness, this could as easily be a consequence of his personal skepticism as evidence of the non-existence of demons.  To his credit, Mr. Cuneo acknowledges part of this problem--he admits that his researches are limited, that demons may have manifested at other exorcisms he didn't attend, etc.--but he doesn't get at the heart of the matter, namely, that his \\"hermeneutics of suspicion\\" has only limited ability to gain access to the issue of the existence or non-existence of demons.  Had he adopted a different approach, the \\"hermeneutics of generosity,\\" his results perhaps would have been very different.<br />One would have thought that this method--the hermeneutics of generosity, ironically largely a result of Post Modernism--would be familiar to someone like Mr. Cuneo.  After all, it has led to spectaculur results in other fields, e.g., Biblical studies (N. T. Wright), anthropology and literary criticism (Rene Girard), and philosophy (Jean-Luc Marion).<br />Also disturbingly, the author makes much of a kind of religio-pop culture connection, evidenced by resurgence of interest in exorcism as well as an increase in those seeking exorcisms, and, consequently, the rise of deliverence ministries,following the film release of The Exorcist and the publication of Hostage to the Devil.  While there may be some association here, its existence tells us little or nothing about the questions at the heart of the book: Do demons exist? and Are exorcisms (and/or deliverences) actual events where demons come out of people?  Indeed, I got the distinct impression that the book's shift of focus from the question of the existence of demons to the pop-culture/exorcism connection was largely a consequence of the author's defective methodology.<br />Bottom line, if you're interested in a sociology-or-religion examination of exorcism, the book has a real but limited value.  If you're interested in the larger questions of the existence or non-existence of demons and of what really goes on in an exorcism--the casting out of a demon or merely a kind of esoteric but nontheless often helpful and at worst usually benign religious rite--you'll get slim pickings from this volume.	2002-11-04
US	44820013	RH8CX44T9FIV1	1578565235	384137949	A Can of Peas (Lake Emily, Book 1)	Books	5	29	31	N	N	What a wonderful simplicity this book contains	Real-life characters in over their heads, but trusting in God and community to pull them through.  The small-town virtues of honesty and hard work.  The toughness it takes to make a go of it on the family farm.  And the tenderness needed to care for those who've entrusted their lives to you.  These are the simple ingredients in this marvel of a book.<br />Kind of like if Jan Karon set her books in America's heartland, A Can of Peas has that same gentle yet tough-minded sensibility.  Filled with memorable characters, heartwarming stories, and unforgetable snapshots of rural Minnesota, A Can of Peas is almost perfect.  I can't wait for this author's next one!	2002-10-05
US	44820013	R3PCIA066CZJMV	0451185110	823831767	Higher Authority (Alan Gregory)	Books	4	31	38	N	N	Strikes me as basically accurate	The hook in this book is Mormondom.  If you're not interested in that, you probably won't like Higher Authority.<br />Just to be clear about where I'm coming from, I'm not a Mormon, nor would I ever consider becoming one, given what I know about their beliefs and practices, which is quite a lot.  As a Catholic-minded Christian interested in other religions, I have spent a good deal of time looking into Mormonism.  It is true, for example, that Mormons at one time practiced blood atonement, as described in the book.  It is also true that they wear special temple undergarments.  Mormons also believe that God was once a man, and that men can become Gods, ruling over other planets as God rules over ours.  One of their theologians put it this way:  &quot;As man is, God once was.  As God is, man may become.&quot; <br />Those at this site who have objected to the book's depiction of Mormonism, calling it &quot;Mormon bashing,&quot; have not specifically stated where the author has misrepresented Mormonism.  Not in the area of beliefs, at least as far as I can discern.  It is also well-known that the Mormon Church discourages critical investigation of its origins, history, beliefs, and practices.  Unlike Christianity (and I do not consider Mormonism a part of Christianity), which has allowed itself to be subjected to several centuries of the most intense critical scrutiny, and which continues today in the Jesus Seminar and other corrosive endeavors, Mormonism does not allow such activity.<br />But the real problem with Mormonism is that it's a non-historical religion claiming to be a historical one.  For example, unlike the Bible, which contains records of events that happened not that far removed from when they were written down, the Book of Mormon (written, or &quot;translated&quot;--as the Mormon Church claims--only about 150 years ago) claims to describe events some of which occurred more than 2,500 years ago.  Moreover, despite the efforts of New World Archelolgy to establish the historicity of the Book of Mormon's descriptions about the &quot;Lamanites&quot; and &quot;Nephites,&quot; no evidence has not been forthcoming.  In other words, the Book of Mormon claims to present history for which there is no corroborating evidence.  Nor did Mormonism arise out of a pre-existing faith-community as Judaism and Christianity did.  Bottom line, it just isn't an historical religion.  I think the book does a pretty good job in getting this point across.<br />Despite its critical stance toward Mormon beliefs, the book is quite fair-minded in its portrayal of Mormon practice.  Especially in the character of John Harley--loyal but troubled and not very devout--we get a sympathetic Mormon character.  Harley, a convert, joined the Mormon Church basically because he needed to be saved--from his own destructive tendencies.  He struggles with Mormon beliefs and rigidity, but is grateful for the stability it brings to his life.  Pratt Toomey is also portrayed quite favorably, although in an entirely different manner, as is Lester Horner.  Yet, we don't really get much of a sense of what Mormon life is really like.  That is one of the things I think some of the other reviewers are complaining about.<br />Will Price, the villain, on the other hand, is an entirely unsympathetic character.  Would it be possible for a devout, fanatical Mormon to behave as he does?--that is at the heart of this book.  Is Mormonism capable of producing--even likely to produce--a Will Price?  Would Mormon Church authorities authorize and condone such actions to preserve the pristine image of the LDS Church?<br />I don't know, but it's a fascinating question, and one that, given the secretiveness, authoritarianism, wealth, and power of the Mormon Church, can't easily be brushed aside.  And that's probably what's really troubling to those who intensely dislike this book: it's all too plausible.	2002-09-20
US	44820013	R185DLGRIDUKQ0	1563056828	922344093	The Beer Lover's Rating Guide	Books	2	11	26	N	N	Not Trustworthy	You simply can't trust his ratings.  Anyone who raves on and on about Rogue products, e.g., giving Shakespeare Stout 4.7 out of 5, has simple lost it.  Anderson Valley brews, which are generally undrinkable, are also rated high.<br />It's not that he gets nothing right; it's just that he gets lots of things wrong.	2002-05-02
US	44820013	R1HE16MLCTRSRA	044661095X	565707898	Killing Time	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A Perilous Undertaking	Writing fiction is a dangerous enterprise, even for the gifted and already successful.  Especially risky is the path taken by those intrepid novelists who try to write in a genre new to them.  One thinks of Ursula LeGuin's stab at historical fiction (quite universally regarded as dreadful).  Or P.D. James's foray into science fiction (mixed reviews).  Or Dan Simmons's attempt at the contemporary thriller (which I rather liked, but many did not).  Or Caleb Carr's take on the near future novel (generally despised, if this site is any indication).<br />Is there some kind of lesson here?  Perhaps.  Maybe that if you try a new genre, you'd better have your act together.<br />Sadly, Carr doesn't.  Nor does he have control of his materials.  He can't seem to make up his mind about what kind of book he wants to write.  Doesn't work as a cartoon--too plodding.  Nor as a novel of ideas--too intellectually flacid.  Nor as an SF epic--too slight.<br />What went wrong here?  There seems to have been no shortage of persons Carr had read the manuscript, or at least bounced ideas off of, if the Acknowledgments at the end of the book are to be believed (and there's no reason not to).  Could all these people have been so off on their judgments as to lavish praise on this ungainly book?<br />Probably most annoying is Carr's Luddite Environmentalism. Also his laughable attempts at high-tech weaponry.  Killing Time's not as bad as most reviewers say, but it's not very good either.  All in all, it's rather silly--but in a not unenjoyable way.  Hence, the three stars.	2002-04-29
US	44820013	RPUFMCR86B3DB	0380789183	239505648	Darwin's Blade: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	46	55	N	N	Did We All Read the Same Book?	I must say, I'm stunned at the volume of negative reviews of this book posted here.  I, too, am a huge Dan Simmons fan, and I think this is the best book he's ever written.<br />First off, Darwin Minor is a great character.  Practically emotionally shut down by horrific events in his past (which I won't reveal for those of you who plan to read the book), he has found a measure of comfort in the writings of Marcus Aurelius, the second century Roman emperor and Stoic philosopher.  One could do worse.  For me, it's refreshing to see a modern hero whose life is built on SOME foundation (even if, as a Christian, I think its a wrong one), rather than the typical post-modern alienated protagonist who has no access to any tradition.<br />Second, this is a very funny book.  I found myself laughing out loud in a number of spots.  Like Jonathan Franzen said in a recent interview, I don't trust a writer who isn't funny.  Simmons' depiction of antagonist Dallas Trace, a thinly disguised representation of noted legal blowhard Gerry Spence, besides being hilarious, makes me want to be sure I never get on Simmons' bad side.<br />Third, Sydney Olson, the female lead, is also a terrific character.  Tough, intellegent, beautiful--and, here's the real kicker--believable.  A modern woman, but not hide-bound by feminist claptrap.  Yes, perhaps larger-than-life, but isn't that what we want in our heroes and heroines?<br />Fourth sprinkled throughout are a number of wonderful minor characters, especially W.W.D. DuBois, the brilliant and sardonic black lawyer.  Also great are the Larry (it's &quot;Lawrence&quot;) 'n' Trudy comedy team, who pose as accident investigators but in reality, we come to see, are perfect foils for the protagonist.<br />Fifth, there's a deep sadness that leaks through the edges of this novel.  I don't know if it's intentional or not--maybe it's simply a product of Mr. Simmons' own somewhat austere and problematic philosophical orientation--but it gives the story a gritty texture that only enhances its appeal.<br />OK, the story's not entirely without problems.  I could make no sense of the equations relating to one of the accident investigations.  And there was too much detail for most readers regarding firearms, ballistics, the effects of wind on bullet speeds and trajecteries, etc.  But I don't recall anyone getting too hacked off at Michael Crichton when he pulled out that fractal crap in Jurassic Park, and nobody seems to complain about the anal-retentive qualities of Mr. Foucault or Mr. Pynchon or Mr. Eco.<br />I have a theory about what the diehard Simmons' groupies don't like about this book.  It's a little cartoonish.  Their Literary Genius is having a little bit of fun.  Also, many of the naysayers seem to have little familiarity with this genre; their critical remarks often take book and author to task for not writing another Carrion Comfort or Hyperion.  <br />I for one would love to see a whole series of Darwin Minor books.  He's one of the sharpest blades out there.	2001-10-02
US	44820013	R239I817CKS81R	0451202120	900704564	A Slow Burning	Books	2	7	11	N	N	A Slow Reading	I don't mind a big book. I DO mind a medium-sized book posing as a big book--when I see a paperback this thick, I'm immediately thinking Robert Jordan or James Clavel, that is, 800-1,000 pages. This book's not much over 500 pages. So why did the publisher bulk it out so much? I don't know, but that little detail seems to be at the heart of what's wrong with this book: pretension.<br />This may be the most pretentious book I've ever read. From the arrogant words on the flyleaf--&quot;Many of these things have already happened; all of them could&quot;--or something like that, everything seems designed to convince the reader that this is an Important Book. But it's not. It's actually a very shallow book wrapped in some dicey pseudo-science, some white liberal guilt about race, some truly horrific and gratuitous violence, and with a nasty anti-religious bias at its heart. The pseudo-science has to do with memory/personality transfer. This, I suppose, is one of those things that has already happened or could happen. I don't buy it. It presupposes an Enlightement/naturalistic worldview that is increasingly coming under fire in these Post-Modern times, as well as a materialist take on the mind/brain issue. The race element, despite an elaborate and overheated set-up, receives the typical white-liberal guilt treatment--blackness is something good per se, whiteness is something problematic per se. Yes, there is a black villain, but he's a psychopath. The gratuitous violence mainly comes at the beginning of the book, but it's scattered throughout. The anti-religious bias comes out loud and clear about two-thirds of the way through the book where the author, in the mind of the female lead, has her think this thought: &quot;She wouldn't marry him the same way she wouldn't marry someone who would pray for her soul every night, as if she were lost and needed to be saved&quot;--not an exact quote, but very close.<br />This anti-religious bias--though not very explicit--forms the subtext of this book. What's really going on here is the same tired old secular humanist idea that immortality can be achieved through science by means of memory/personality transfer. What we really need is a new C. S. Lewis to deconstruct this nonsense just as he did the regnant athiestic naturalism of his day in his Space Trilogy.<br />Finally, there are a lot of really annoying plot twists throughout the book, and especially toward the end. This guy is the master of the gratuitous plot twist, that is, a change of direction with no preparation. Moreover, the &quot;revelations&quot; about the female protagonist's ancestry, besides being inherently boring, stretch credulity way beyond belief.<br />The only reason I gave it two stars instead of one is because it represents a labor of love of huge proportions. That is, although I dislike this book intensely, it nevertheless presents perhaps one of the better cases for its fallacious and pernicious worldview.	2001-09-17
US	44820013	R357JYZIQ8B20T	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	1	21	56	N	N	Ain't PoMo Great?	You don't have to follow those stuffy old rules, like proper use of sources--heck, make up your own rules! It's a free country, man. Get used to it. <br />It's called advocacy scholarship. It goes like this: If justice is on your side, it's perfectly OK to play with the facts. A whole new generation of &quot;scholars&quot; has arisen using this methodology. Some of the more honest ones, like John Dominic Crossan, admit it. Some of the more dishonest ones, like John Boswell and Elaine Pagels--and James Carroll--don't. Why should they? They're plenty of [people] who'll buy their specious scholarship.<br />Let's not play games. This book is despicable. It almost makes you wish the Vatican would revive its Index of forbidden books. It'd save us all a lot of time, energy, and grief wasted plowing through such nonsense.	2001-09-06
US	44820013	R36B26BPYV7ACR	0849943124	955610690	Blessed Child	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Absolutely Killer!!!	This one will knock your socks off. From the opening scene in a monastery in Eritria to the denoument in the Rose Bowl, this book rocks. But wait. It's not just one of the best action adventure stories ever written. There's a huge spiritual payoff as well. And a heart-wrenching love story thrown in for good measure.<br />Rumor has it that the makers of Megiddo, a terrifying new apcalyptic thriller, are going to be making a movie of this. I can't wait. The story's so visual, so cinematic, it would make an incredible movie. But don't sit just sit. Run out and pick this sucker up. The movie might never get made. Catch this wave while it's still cresting.	2001-08-17
US	44820013	R32YW91KRPD1MV	0965694879	538449378	Acts of God (Book Three of The Christ Clone Trilogy)	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Slyness Ends--But Not The Powerhouse Story	Well, you knew the sleight-of-hand, the literary legerdemain, couldn't continue forever. The author kept us pretty much in suspense for more than two books. But it all comes to a screaching halt in book three. Finally, all the chips are on the table. Everything's out in the open. The cat's out of the bag.<br />What we get instead of red herrings and blind alleys is powerful, straightforward storytelling of the first water. What we also get is a quite harrowing--yet entirely plausible--picture of the last days of Planet Earth as we know it. We also get some more Really Scarry speaches from you-know-who. When the mask is finally peeled away, we get a picture of a creature more nightmarish than Weston, the Unman from Perelandra--someone who makes Freddy Krueger look like St. Francis. <br />But we get something even better--a picture of redemption that is truly moving. <br />Did BeauSeigneur deliver the goods here in book three? You bet, and in spades. This is it. The real thing. You'll be sorry if you miss it.<br />Well, this is my last communique from the front. I'm going to miss sending out these dispatches. Hope they were helpful.	2001-08-17
US	44820013	R1SJF8ZMIEHIHK	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Gratuitous Plot Twists	I don't really like what's at the heart of this book--and the problems go deeper than just surface-level stuff--but it was so compelling that I couldn't put it down.  It's not that hard to basically figure out what's going on, but the last 50 pages or so are practically non-stop plot twists, not all of which are properly foreshadowed, leaving credulity stretched beyond the breaking point.  Think Clive Cussler meets Morris West.<br />And for me, that's where the trouble begins.  It's almost as if Dan Brown can't decide whether to write a pure action/adventure yarn or a story with more substance, one that seriously discusses both contemporary and age-old issues.  It works at the Dirk Pitt level, but not the Shoes of the Fisherman level.  And I get the feeling that the author REALLY wants to be regarded as a Serious Writer.<br />One does have to hand it to Brown as he brilliantly evokes the ins and outs of Roman art,  architecture, and archeology, as well as Vatican politics, wrapping it all around a downright swashbuckling tale.  But when he tries to address the larger questions, such as the relationship between science and religion, questions about philosophical theology, intellectual history, or Catholic doctrine, he badly stumbles.  Since these questions largely fuel the plot engine, to miss here vitiates the impact of the story, at least for me.  Hence, only three stars--despite the acknowledged brillance of the plotting--and a generous three stars, at that.	2001-07-18
US	44820013	RZZIUMJTS0QNZ	0891074961	471862848	Tilly	Books	5	2	5	N	N	An Exercise in Love	I don't know how many times I've read this short novel--at least 10--and it never fails to make me weep. The genius of Tilly is that it so lovingly portrays the reality of the Christian myth. What if you could have your heart's deepest longing and at the same time have your biggest mistake erased? That's what's at the heart of this enchanting story. One needn't have gone through what Kathy Ross has to be overwhelmed. Heck, I'm not even a woman--and therefore am physically incapable of sharing Kathy's experience--yet Frank Peretti still manages to make her story universal. Though not nearly as well know as some of Frank's other work, Tilly should nevertheless not be missed.	2001-07-16
US	44820013	R1A73GGYQL7KD9	0965694860	391817798	Birth of an Age (Book Two of The Christ Clone Trilogy)	Books	5	53	54	N	Y	Slyness Continues Unabated	I was really curious to see if Mr. BeauSeigneur could sustain his impressive beginning in this second installment of The Christ Clone Trilogy. Well, I'm happy to report that he's outdone himself.<br />One remarkable achievement is the Promethean speech his puts in the mouth of Christopher Goodman, a central character, near the end of the book.  Including a famous speech by Morgian in Arthur, the third book of Stephen Lawhead's Pendragon Cycle, and some of Satan's speeches in Paradise Lost, these are perhaps the most harrowing utterances to occur in the history of literature. If ever there were a need for caveat lector (let the reader beware), it is here. Not to worry, though; just another big fat red herring strewn in the unwary reader's path.<br />BeauSeigneur has hit his stride with this book. My only complaint with the first one was that it seemed a little labored in places, perhaps due to the amount of set-up necessary to get his story rolling. Not so here. Things fairly zip along. <br />It's been interesting to write each of these reviews without having finished the entire series. It's almost like sending bulletins from the front. I'm anxious to see how it all ends. And I'll be once again posting my reaction.	2001-06-11
US	44820013	R9E12Z9U18G55	0965694852	451794091	In His Image: Book One of The Christ Clone Trilogy	Books	5	27	32	N	Y	Very Cleverly Done	He's a sly one, this James BeauSeigneur. With red herrings liberally scattered throughout, it's really hard to tell where he's coming from. Is he a New Ager? A fundamentalist Christian? Only The Shadow knows, and he's not telling. <br />As with many other reviewers, I, also, do not like this genre. Haunted by the likes of Salem Kirban, A Thief in the Night, and the notorious Left Behind series, it's not the most happening category around. The Christ Clone Trilogy is different. For one thing, it's far more carefully written and researched than any other End Times fiction I'm aware of. For example, there are all kinds of delicious little plot bombs just waiting to explode in the careless reader's face. The author's knowledge of everything from geopolitics to obscure culturial practices of the Inuit people is remarkable. <br />All in all, a story about the end of the world that's very credible, even persuasive. Try it out, you might like it.	2001-05-24
US	44820013	RUC5DMIOWYOBC	0849942918	824596446	When Heaven Weeps (Martyr's Song, Book 2)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The Heavy Artillery's Out	If you thought HEAVEN'S WAGER was hot, wait until you read the second book in THE MARTYR'S SONG trilogy. The opening scene, where an unspeakable crime is committed in an idyllic village during WWII, is worth the price of admission. Mr. Dekker has even weighter themes in mind here: The cost of love, what sacrifice really means, how addictions snare us, and what it means to be truly free. This is powerful, powerful stuff. Nothing really offensive here (my 16-year-old daughter read it and got a lot out of it), but it is, after all, a modern-day Hosea and Gomer story. <br />If you've already caught on to Dekker, you know the score. If you're new to him, this is a great place to start.	2001-05-23
US	44820013	R24EIXVAXUDXAJ	0849942411	948374355	Heaven's Wager (Martyr's Song, Book 1)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Major Advance for Fiction Coming from Evangelical Subculture	First there was IN HIS STEPS, then there was CHRISTY, then there was BELOVED INVADER, then there was LOVE COMES SOFTLY, then there was GATES OF ZION, then there was THIS PRESENT DARKNESS, then there was TALIESIN, then there was AT HOME IN MITFORD, then there was LEFT BEHIND, and now there is HEAVEN'S WAGER.  A long and impressive legacy, each book setting a new standard in its genre, or breaking new ground for &quot;Christian fiction.&quot;  What makes HEAVEN'S WAGER a breakthrough is that Ted Dekker combines a riviting plot with such a powerful evocation of the love of God for His creatures.  By all means, do not take a pass on this intriguing, suspensful, and hugely impactful novel.  Also, look for the sequel, WHEN HEAVEN WEEPS, which is just releasing now (middle of May 2001).	2001-05-14
US	44820013	R1UPXRYZGFOH2J	0812575245	823277314	The Reckoning (Blood of the Lamb)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Cartoonish, Yet Oddly Compelling	I wanted to like this book a lot less than I did.  After all, it's got just about everything in it that bothers me about bad writing: gratuitous action (see INDIANA JONES AND THE TEMPLE OF DUMB for the ultimate gratuitous action cultural artifact), whirled views (New Age-ism on the half-shell: the Seven Churches of Revelation turn out to be--surprise!!--holy sites of the world's major religions), bad theology (Catholics spouting tired works-righteousness views), a dodgy premise combined with shaky metaphysics (a clone from DNA from Jesus' blood equals Superman), etc.  But somehow the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.  I know it's probably a really stupid book, but I generally liked it anyhow.  Maybe Monteleone is the Clive Cussler of theological thrillers.  One could do worse.	2001-05-04
US	44820013	R3CT6Z3JC1X39P	091144906X	402078471	Surfing Guide to Southern California	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Best Guide Book Ever Written?	I've probably spent more time with this book than any other, except for the Bible.  That's because SURFING GUIDE is the Bible of surfing guidebooks.  For me, it's more than nostalgia.  I actually used it quite a bit when it first came out, and I found its information very accurate.  Of course, since I've been away from the Pacific for lo these many years now, it has become essentially a nostalgia trip.  And since the surfing scene is so different now than when it was written, unless you're a full-bore retro longboarder (and I know there're lots of you out there), it's probably almost per se an exercise in nostalgia.  But don't let that put you off.  Cleary and Stern are very clever fellows and shrewd observers.  Their wry observations and sly sensibilities propel this book out of its homely little genre and into the vast ocean of truly great reads.	2001-05-02
US	44820013	R2G6UG25VHWYKQ	0595142052	147658039	Too Skinny to Float	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Fresh Take on the Vietnam War	Vicki Bohe-Thackwell has written a wonderfully approachable and readable account of something little mentioned: the disastrous effects of the Vietnam War on families.  TOO SKINNY TO FLOAT is told in the first person by 14-year-old Lanie, the only daughter of an Air Force general, who also is the head of that branch's service academy, and a glamorous, dramatic, and deeply depressed mother.  Set in Colorado Springs, the book has a striking verisimilitude; one comes away with a grand impression of life in the late sixties in a town very much defined by its military life and tradition.<br />One also comes away from the book stuck by how the material is fashioned not to evoke a particular point of view on the war but rather to show how it impacted everyone it touched, especially those in military families.<br />There is a deep pathos and poignancy running through the book, yet, amazingly, not an ounce of sentimentality.  All in all, this is an exceptional novel, not to be missed	2001-05-01
