US	44842080	RY4QY5UAXTMCD	0876854439	615726674	Ask the Dust	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Novel Feast whose Pages are Carved in Quivering Meat	Bukowski was right that he had found True Magic in Fante's 'Ask The Dust'. For, a novel who's pages are carved in quivering Meat is a miracle to a starving young writer. It was the same revelation for me as it has been a Godsend for others, as it shall no doubt be 'Alchemical Gold in Prose' for many more to come. <BR>One dusty Summer on Alcazar NorthEast, in the 'Land of Entrapment' me & a small group of friends all in turn read John Fante's 'Ask The Dust' upon each other's admonishment that it could very well be the greatest 20th century American novel ever written from the perspective of a poor white boy trying to make it as a Writer and a Lover in the Big City; in particular, The City of Angels, but most any SouthWestern Desert City with a predominantly Latino culture is described with a sensational genius. That is, one can smell the dry air wafting over the Mountains, feel the sun in the hot sand between one's toes, taste the green Chile pepper numbness, hear the shouts and whistles of the busy avenues, and see a million beautiful dark-haired women strutting down some Central ave with something like a nostalgic ... stirring the expectant butterflies deep down in the Gut... <BR>Never had I come across in tough literary American youth a Book as Honest as Fante's own. A Roman Catholic Italian child from a poor Colorado home who went in search of Angels in the city designated as their own. 'Ask The Dust' is part two of that Bandini Saga, 'The Road To Los Angeles' being the first... <BR>A German Shepard, a young handsome fellow of new Mexican extract made himself a welcome member of our castle and we Christened him 'Bandini', after Fante's autobiographical Hero; we named the Pup we took in of Bandini's fathering, the largest of the litter: 'Arturo', in tribute to the Saga of Arturo Bandini, who shall forever live for us somewhere in the vicinity of that street, in that magical summer that is the greatest season of a young man's life. <BR>Every young American male should know of this book, for the world would be a much more sincere & honest place were it so. Fante's courage is a beacon in the hurricane, read as if in the eye of that storm that is a young man's insatiable passion. My God, what can one say? the Title 'Ask the Dust' already says it all.	2002-02-24
US	44842080	R2847EJD5OWJI3	0750918594	286287213	Ritual Magic (Magin in History Series)	Books	5	26	43	N	N	That ole Black Magic still makes us want to dance	This second part of Eliza Butler's trilogical survey of Faustian Literature is rightfully established as an incomparable classic in historical/scholarly works of ceremonial Magic. In words set to atone for the whole, she remarks: \\"How tenacious those ill weeds that have grown apace on the field of magical ritual, that ominous tract which, all agree, Hides the Dark Tower\\"...I, mere Dedicated Literary Servitor, feel blessed to have been fortunate enough to have come across the blazened trails wending strange ways through those fields Butler charted herein while composing my own work setting out to establish the origins of Gothic Literature, & malefic fictions in general. Having found their incubation chambers within the Renaissance Malefic compendiums of the Witch-Hunters, and innumerable fantastic works in response, respect, or revolt against the remnants of Medieval superstition, Butler's works provided the missing arcane key to \\"What constitutes the Science of ceremonial magic which its devotees call the Art\\"...so essential if one is to ever makes sense of divers historical arenas such as Art History or Intellectual & Esoteric History.<br />\\"For the inventors & practitioners of the rites/often gave proof to Art/to the advantage of the Literature which has survived/its means show evidence of highly creative instincts, poetical imagination and great feeling for beauty & drama/This is what makes the study of Ritual Magic so interesting today\\"<br />Butler speaks with a respective authority that avoids disrespect of her human, all too human subjects; all the while exacting the magical crux of the ritual matter without sacrificing the scholarly critical outside-looking-inside perspective. She writes with a surgeon's sharp intelligibility, without becoming cold as the over-scrutinizing scalpel she wields like a pro. A more profound exegesis and wider span of written works of Ritual Magic is to me, inconceivable. Voluminous quotations from original first & critical second-hand sources graces Butler's pages, revealing the odd often monstrous apparitions that people mankind's collective psyche, which have found a wide deep harbor in the texts and treatise' Ritual Magic, whether they be of Nec-Romantic, Goetic & Theurgic persuasion.<br />From Akkadian Tableture & Greco-Egyptian papyri; to the great Epic Poems of Mesopotamia, Greece, Rome,& even Iceland; to the Hebrew wisdom of Old-testifying Clavicles of Solomon along with Cabalistic Magic tomes; and of course the French Grimoires (those infernal Grammar books of the underground crypts); and finally, into the very heart of Butler's work: The Germanic works of both Magia Naturalis et Innaturalis, as told of FAUSTUS & MEPHISTOPHELES and All the progenitors, Disciples and Poets of each of these categories and sub-categories; from olden times to new.<br />Butler's works is...\\"as subtle and as rich as Sprenger, Bodin, Wierus or de Lancre ever imagined; a whole world of wicked spirits, whose personalities are carefully distinguished, their attributes precisely determined, and their hierarchy learnedly classified\\" (Lenormant's work on the Magic of Chaldea; Butler,5).<br />Elizabeth Margaret Butler fearlessly summons all the Harrowings of Hells, the Raising of the spirits of Cain. Spanning through brilliant biographical summations of all variety of Black Magi, she treads on Holy and Accursed grounds. From the Wiley likes of Casanova, the Infernal court records and murderous inhuman charges against poor suffering Bluebeard of Orleans; the penultimate renaissance man of viceful passions Cellini and that Nigromant of Norcia; Dee and that earless rogue Kelly and all exponents of the Dark Arts until finally, after extending her hand carefully into the epitome of more modern times she draws many insightful conclusions from the works of LEVI, Francis Barrett, Mathers, Waite, and even Crowley; until laying a stake through the heart of The Myth Of Satanism, she sets the stage for part three. There the Origins of Faustian Literature in Ritual Magic shall have the same genius applied to them in an equally brilliant exposition on the MAGIC OF LITERATURE----having just come in this work from the dangerous adventure of surmising the LITERATURE OF MAGIC---and as pt.2 was to Occultism, exploring Ritual Magic by means of generous quotations and examples drawn from historical and biographical detail; so shall the next work, The Fortunes of Faust, bring Butler's trilogy round full circle, that snake eating itself continuously, the Ouroboros of the world's magical History, which is Our Own.<br />Postcryptum: Part one of Butler's Faustian work is entitled 'The Myth of the Magus', and is presently available at the Amazonian encampment through Cambridge press Canto editions. Pts.2 & 3 are (re)published by Penn State's Press's extraordinary 'Magic In History' series, perhaps thanks to the Societas Magica, an entirely scholarly unsecret society dedicated to the discipline and adventure of assessing honestly, and finally, the History of Magic.s of Faustian Literature in Ritual Magic shall have the same genius applied to them in an equally brilliant exposition on the MAGIC OF LITERATURE----having just come in this work from the dangerous adventure of surmising the LITERATURE OF MAGIC---and as pt.2 was to Occultism, exploring Ritual Magic by means of generous quotations and examples drawn from historical and biographical detail; so shall the next work, The Fortunes of Faust, bring Butler's trilogy round full circle, that snake eating itself continuously, the Ouroboros of the world's magical History, which is Our Own.<br />Postcryptum: Part one of Butler's Faustian work is entitled 'The Myth of the Magus', and is presently available at the Amazonian encampment through Cambridge press Canto editions. Pts.2 & 3 are (re)published by Penn State's Press's extraordinary 'Magic In History' series, perhaps thanks to the Societas Magica, an entirely scholarly unsecret society dedicated to the discipline and adventure of assessing honestly, and finally, the History of Magic.	2002-02-11
US	44842080	R1834T15CL5K8P	0803298099	34005249	The Robber	Books	5	29	36	N	N	Our Robber is a humble man w/an inborn pride of thieves	In review of writers far worthier than I, and contemporaneous of Walser: Robert Musil said: Walser writes as \\"an ice-skater executes his long curves & figures...these little endlessnesses waft over into the void...as in the hours between a suicide's decision and final act(1914). The most Illuminated of all assessors of literary greatness, Walter Benjamin said (admittedly of Walser's anti-fairy tales of himself in drag of Cinderella and Snow White): \\"Walser begins where the fairy-tale leaves off\\"(1929). But none has equaled what Elias Canetti wrote as late as 1978, with an angry unmercy for all critics who live off other writer's wounds: Walser is 'The most camouflaged of all writers (who) never formulates his motives...his work is an unflagging attempt at hushing his fear...and that is why it is sinister (the work, not the words)...as he escapes everywhere before too much fear gathers in him...in order to save himself...his experience with the 'struggle for existence' takes him into the only sphere where that struggle no longer exists: the madhouse, the monastery of modern times.\\" <BR>This is Robert 'Robber' Walser's last novel written before his grand finale of silence upon admittance unto the mad houses of final quietude. Beyond even the beautiful miracle of Rilke's Elegies or Bruno Schulz's phantastics, it's as if a Henri Rosseau painting were stepped in upon by lovingly devoted thieves who only want to live there a while...I recall Aleister Crowley's words speaking of a friend's madness: \\"It was if a man had stepped outside of himself to go on a long walk\\". That is what happened, so they say, 'Robber Walser' Did upon completing this holy novella in the poetic excesses of his Blakean view of the world where all's Holy. Intermingled as it is, with his own Dostoyevskian Doppelganger & fleeting doves of the Holy Ghost; in one of the most intimate of doubles Literature's ever known. Here in these pages whispers the secret treasure of a Robber, a writer, & a Walker, all centered around 'one singular man' name of Robert Walser. The watercolour on the cover is by his brother, Karl Walser, circa 1894; they were close as a Theo to a Vincent in our Robber's heart. This is the only known photograph of Walser's Robber, who reminds me of a cross betwix Billy the Kid & Peter Pan? We cannot spiritually afford to give the 'plot' away as Walser's words are all about Freedom from the bondage of one's inner demons, and therefore costs an unpronounceable price beyond even American currencys can purchase, amen. For those without the right amount of time to dedicate to All Walser wrote, I would refer them to the Quay Brothers film: 'Institute Benjamenta'---which is a rare species of film indeed to capture the dream world of our hero 'Jakob Von Gunten' in cinematic black-n-white exposure. Of Walser's supposed 'Mental InStability', (however undersimplified) I feel his suffering comprises a beautiful exception TO suffering; a rare species of 'beautiful suffering' had from his own Superbly Sound Sensitivity to Sensations a great many regrettables shall most likely never become aware of without the Romance of a Robber such as Walser's being born along inside us...on a romantic lark such as this carefully pocketed jeweled compass is sure to lead its thieves far, far away, to where 'Here Be Dragons' is writ on old incunabular maps. One merely has to read Walser, so unlike the multitude of unstable geniuses one need not make the sign of the cross to ward off the evil peering from inside so many  ingenious but dangerously depressive works. Inside Walser's heartrending Romantic prose his ever-active eternal spirit takes on alarming fleshly precedence though still omnipotent enough to take over the world dressed in cool sunglasses shading that evil eye; in luminous gowns made of 'white magical' tissue paper, all the better equipped to wipe away tears at the same time as reading. The Robber respectfully bows deeply before all that's worthy of beauty, including every woman ever born so graceful a creature, A-men? Walser never screams but shouts out to greet every overcautious reader who dares to tread his pages lovingly; he never runs but walks at an amazingly quick-pace through literature, town & city, and of course, the vast countryside that replaced words for Walser to wander in; falling down dead one Christmas day in the snow; & as William H. Gass so poetically envisioned him at the end, falling down upon a field: \\"smoothly white as writing paper\\". There is nothing in this book a Robber would pawn without an excess of tears hot enough to scald the vision & heart from which they were taken, so innocently, out of boundless admiration & unrestrainable worship! If you read only one writer or one book in all of Earthly existence, let it be by Robert Walser, a humble man with an inborn pride of thieves; who takes from his own rich Heart and gives Poetic alms to those poorer in spirit or in need of fellow grievance, commiseration, companionship, or simple celebration before those horrid  if 'entertaining thoughts of suicide' are finally exorcised from the Book of Life. Walser's books are integral in every first-aid literary kit for bandaging burnt souls and crushed spirits. Each sentence is like a shot of hot fiery spirits to chase away throats sore from yelling all the time, and at the ones they love sadly screaming the most. The subtle irony of each paragraph is stretched across the boards of Literary history to flatten out the riddles & wrinkles of a Kafkian love of cosmically-inclined intrigues & double meanings. The mystery is deep as a sea full of Leviathans; and Walser navigates straight through the groping tentacles of mythological monsters to purge the heart of all its fictions. He is, along with Hoffman, Goethe, Kleist, one of the Magical Immortals in the realm of Germanic & Romantic Phantastics. And without equal whence it comes to the one & only artistic pre-requisite of mine: Sincerity!	2002-01-20
US	44842080	R3FBMAPUTDAP5E	0812690737	816215009	The Occult Underground	Books	5	39	47	N	N	To Finally Anatomize The Beast Historically	... the century of Enlightenment was also the century of shadows...\\" <BR>Thus begins Pioneering Occult Scholar Sir James Webb's 2-volume,1000 page historical survey of the 19th and 20th centuries respectively succeeding one another in this book and its successor fittingly entitled: 'The Occult Establishment'---originally entitled as a single vast work: `THE FLIGHT FROM REASON'.  The Flight From Accepted Reason to Willed Imagination, or the great Occult Difference in the survival of the fittest from the dangerous. <BR>Both texts are strong enough to stand entirely on their own as much as an enduring boxer jabbing at the ghosts of history in the mirrors of magical conjurations. Webb has become an underground legend in academic circles as well as more underground occult ones; to both scholarly historians and practitioners and dabbling dreamers he has uncovered the many hitherto unknown and un-addressed masked faces of European, American, and Russian Occult history in a way most likely never to be surpassed; but at best merely equaled for sheer verve and mind-staggering revelations throughout every page. In fact, there is a good sense of mythographic Rumors in circulation regarding his early death (1946-1980), said to have ended in madness to the effect that such was the result of his historical discoveries driving him beyond a scope the mind can deal with. But legends will always spring up around such scholarly figures who have the daring and the wisdom to seek out the truth for themselves in a way not unlike some real-life Fox Moulder without any backing but that of their own intelligence and heart, of which Webb had plenty of both. He is skeptical in a humoring way to his own astonishments as well as the reader's fancies, and writes from the p.o.v. of a well-reasoned scientific mindset Like the best of several other modern-day independent occult scholars such as Joscelyn Godwin who is the closest to Webb in this respect of there being no cruelty or direct and laudable ridicule of the LIVES he studies; in fact, the two men just named have that admirable sense of immense responsibility springing from a belief in the integrity of the work they are pioneering in the best way possible by assessing ALL their findings with a respect inborn in those who love the work they are doing. The result is that Webb's works, though definitely Historical tomes, are writ in such an expressive poetic non-fictional guise full of ingenious metaphors and lightning-flash insights that they are able to stand critique according to their rare literary merits independent even of their fascinating subject(s) (as the brief opening lines above are to exemplify for those interested parties reading this brief, shallow review)...in which they are insightfully steeped in that realm of 'MAGIC' which as Northwest University Professor of History and Religion, Richard Kieckhefer so well put: \\"is the Crossroads of History\\"---where most every facet of a given culture (such as Religion, science, medicine, the Arts and Politics foremost) come together in one vast scenic expanse of a magical landscape in constant flux the more a viewer penetrate into its interior. <BR>There abounds in print references to Webb's work in probably 7 or more out of 10 works dealing with Occultic matters on a serious, scholarly level, both academic and/or independent (by which I mean these are in NO Way 'Conspiracy Theory pulpous editions; as ALL Webb's sources are fully listed in extensive annotated bibliographical format for each chapter...and what could be more serious than endeavoring to fathom the history of the world in every matter occultic? \\"Occult History\\" interpreted as being applicable to all that has been hidden, ignored, misunderstood or misrepresented, unacknowledged, rejected, lost, buried and/or intentionally destroyed in History? Or, in the other words of the mystics: 'To rend aside the veil of Isis for once and for All').<BR>James Webb's books cost a fortune in the used bookmarket, and rightly so are in great demand amongst those in the know, as evidenced by his wide references in innumerable works of the past 20 years in the burgeoning field of Western Esoteric Studies, quickly growing to be one of the fastest rising schools of its own in many nationwide State Universities and not just the private academic sector...So I am glad to see Open Court Press has wisely re-printed at least the first work. 'The Occult Underground' deals mainly with the 19th Century European Occult Revival, especially in the realm of the Arts, and centering of course of the Symbolists, Decadents, Aesthetes, and Romantics who would make of Art a religion at last. The Symbolist generation(s) being the culmination of millennia of Art History leading up to that pivotal moment when the Artist would become High priest or Mage in his own right, beyond mere social commentator or recorder, or Propagndic posturing for whatever Empire, to instead claim Art existing for the benefit of the individual in the context of cosmological proportions embracing all of Human History, and not exclusively standing for any one single country. The 'Unacknowledged Legislators of the World' finally came into their own at the turn of those two centuries numbers 19 and 20. Even in the midst of Nationalism, Symbolist Art embraced all that was beyond the borders as well, in an Art that communicated across continents in a universal Language without barriers, corresponding easily as astral doubles in a dream before God tore up the Tarot card with that tower of Babel on it. Webb goes into great depth especially in France where Artists found their definition in the realm of Occultism with which it merged forever. Eventually coming to give birth to all that grows in the Advanced Gardens of the twentieth century Avant-Garde, which begins in the last lines and tail end of this book, and's taken up at the horns of its Demon brother of the much darker and far more sinister 20th century world of the Occult of the 'Illuminated politics.	2002-01-08
US	44842080	R1Y66VDDUWE98D	0486224937	885952618	Witchcraft, Magic and Alchemy (Dover Occult)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	An Art History of Occult Traditions---and vice versa...	This is a classic photo-reproduction of the Artium Magister, Grillot de Givry's: 'Le Musee des sorciers, mages et alchemists' (1929). It is an Art Historical tour of the Occult heritage in virtually all the classical Arts; from painting and illuminated manuscript, to sculpture and architecture, as well as a vast body of Literature, including many extremely rare &amp; beautiful manuscripts &quot;writ in the sublimest poesy&quot; found mostly in private French and Parisian libraries, the Bibliotheque de l'Arsenal, and from the exemplary Art Historian's own collection. Some 375-plus high-quality Black &amp; White Illustrations on archival glossed paper make this a valuable document for both Occultists' and Artists/Art Historians of varied fields of inquiry. This is the book which more than any other inspired and taught the SURREALIST'S about all the Occult Arenas which were so much a part of their heritage dating back just a few decades before to the late 19th century 'European Occult Revival' which was infiltrated by the SYMBOLIST's-DECADENT's (perhaps the largest singular influence on the Surrealist's versatile agenda) who undertook the immense task of making ART THEIR OWN RELIGION by finding their individualized spiritual definitions in the magical world of Occultism.<br />Fulcanelli's 'Mystery of the Cathedrals' &amp; 'Dwellings of the Philosophers'---of which de Givry's catalogue is a pictorial companion-piece---is the only other work(s) which so affected the Artistic Advanced Guards between the World Wars to an immeasurable degree and literally unlimited extent, especially those working in a non-literary medium.<br />For, the writers, both linear and poetic turned to the Occult Authors such as Eliphas Levi, or Paschal Beverly Randolph, or Paul Christian, and of course the Theosophical Madame, her big Russian self---and Steiner's Anthroposophist's...the list goes on &amp; on.<br />But there is Nothing to compare too this pictorial archive as de Givry's assembled for the sheer bulk of their numbers and the high quality of the works he labored valiantly to include, reveling in the many mysteries abounding all over the European landscape, especially within the sculpture of the cathedrals from several historical era`s. Many criminally unknown (or just ignored) medieval &amp; Renaissance Artist's that have somehow gotten buried by those ladies of T.S.'s still talking of Michelangelo are herein restored.<br />Occultist's/Occult Historians should find this book an immensely helpful anthology for use alongside such Classical scholars as the English dame Francis Amelia Yates' and D.P. Walker's works on the subject of Renaissance Hermeticism and both kinds of Magical professors. Or works dealing with any other era in European `Hidden History'.<br />All in all, this is a highly informative and absorbing compendium of a wide variety of works that would find a good home in so many differing disciplinarian's studios! Also, the translation by J. Courtenay Locke is excellent, as de Givry's prose is always insightful and has an down to earth romantic quality imbuing it as a whole, allowing for some rather fantastic humor which the translator has indeed caught well. The book is published by DOVER PRESS in photo-facsimile (the best mass Paperback Publishers still around when it comes to quality and unbeatable prices! It was originally pub. by Houghton Mifflin Co. in 1931) and it therefore has a whiff of ages about it which confers upon it an antiquated sense of thumbing through a tome from a far distant time, making it seem even more of a miracle such a unique Art Historical work as this is still so readily available in the early days of century number MMI.<br />Such an area of European Spiritual heritage has yet to be explored in any depth approaching the deeps which Grillot de Givry succeeds in delving to! As much as the Arts have a rich cultural heritage in Esotericism---so does Occultism have a long and flourishing tradition in the Arts; both are wondrous facets of a single fact this book documents well! I am surprised it is not more well-known?<br />If you like gazing at works with a very Gothique edge; with a definitely Sublime terror about their subject matter, and executed by the European continental likes of Goya, Bosch, Brueghel, Cranach, Rembrandt, Van Der Weyden, etc...to Paracelsus, Magnus, Barrett, Fludd, Kircher, etc... &amp; all variety of Faustian caricatures and outtakes from innumerable incunabular texts of both Literary and Goetic/Theurgical origins...This is a visual Feast that will ravage your visions after you go to sleep just as much as you will frequent the hellish sights within its pages!<br />This book builds a bridge made to last, that many have already passed through...it should be a more frequented path in academia as well as independently trodden again, Amen!	2001-12-25
US	44842080	R14QAYF34E6YM	0963859412	592963726	I Am Secretly an Important Man	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The Poet Jacks Off The Throat to Bring This in Cupped Hands	\\"If you dare condemn my life, it will come after you with a sharpened rake!\\" said Steven Jesse Bernstein, the legendary dark sun shining in the steel-grey of a Seattle sky. (...) had come into his own a s a poet...all he had to do was wield a pen and scrawl what was already there, gushing out so fast he had to catch it all in his hands or it would be lost forever...(...) ...Read the works of a man from the very streets you come from, (...) ...You need take this Writer's works with you as a close and trusted companion, both Poetry and Prose, it's more than Lost than anything the Lost generation made out with like bandits; more Beat than anything the Beats as its got a modernized Rhythmic Bass back-beat to it, all the more akin to old Blues than Jazz, and the only generation is the Generation X=conmmunicated, where the only \\"alternative\\" is drugs or death, otherwise the compromise of a scared hypocrite wanting to repeat the secure sins of those who are of an entirely different breed of poets altogether...no, Bernstein knew what he was; and even more than that he focused on what he had become (...)<BR>(...)	2001-12-06
US	44842080	R2NRQUSYYO4NT5	382288653X	939682167	Alchemy and Mysticism: The Hermetic Museum (Klotz)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	An Atlas of Human History	Hot off the shelf from some wizard harem this &quot;brickbook&quot; consisting of about a 1000 full-color illustrations on over 700 pages of glossified paper from the Renaissance &amp; Enlightenment eras' for the most part, but going back to the early post-crucfixion days of the prevailing Mystery Religions and into our terrifying millenary day with a few examples of Modernist/Post-Modernist Art such as Duchamp's work &amp; the playwright August Strindberg's cosmological photographic exposures to the night sky; several references to Fulcanelli as well as Theosophical Architectural drawings...around 30 pieces from the AURORA CONSURGENS (14-17th cen./see CGJung's writings) are celebrated herein, they are some of the most intriguing works I have ever seen!; all variety of outtakes from myriad illuminated manuscripts &amp; Medieval incunabula fill these pages; but it is mostly the Renaissance Hermetic texts of the Alchemists and Mystics (hence the title) that is represented in the finest detailed prints; from Anastasius Kircher's beautiful cabalistic diagrams to the mnemonic palaces &amp; Hermetic/Alchemical graphics of Robert Fludd, H.Khunrath, Jacob Bohme, M.Maier...the names go on in a never ending procession of Renaissance &amp; Enlightenment Artistic brilliance. There is no other work ever printed in the last few hundred years, at least that I have ever even heard of mythologized by bibliophiles &amp; collectors or Antiquarians that warrants comparison with such a high-quality work as this is and for such a trifle of a price! For the sheer bulk, much less the quality prints that one gets from Sir Benedikt Taschen's wondrous press (which is unequalled in the Art world!) the price is practically nil as even a lesser book consisting of half the number of the same works would go for 10 times what Mr. taschen's offering it to the world for!...and only Taschen could ever come up with a second volume to match it! I &amp; many others I suppose have fantasized for hundredsof years perhaps for a book like this to be published at under a 1000 dollars say; for it is definitely a luxury item for poorer students &amp; scholars both independent and academic to be able to afford such a sublime effort and product as this, for which I thank Taschen press from the bottom of a bookish passion for all they have done in just the past decade or so. The work defends itself, nay it has no need but only should be championed by anyone who appreciates and admires history itself. This book is a lens by which one can focus in on lost eras whose words cannot be trusted nearly as much as these illustrative works; it's a catalogue of dreams, maps of lost and/or forgotten utopian ideals, charts of spiritual aspirations and records of strange initiations; a massive book of riddles in pictograph, for which the puzzle-subject is one's very own microprosopus-being whose final assembly means heaven reached or paradise achieved; &amp; at the least intellectual delight/enlightenment, &amp; gnosis at best. The artwork is perhaps from the most sublime genre of them all, the human tradition at the heart of all scientific endeavor &amp; religious searching; it is no less than an journey into both inner &amp; outer space, whose realms the artists' believed an iron lung was not necessary in order to explore, and which many mystics &amp; theologians of contemporary times as well as philosophers &amp; scientists of the past are inclined to agree. The book should give &quot;Occulture&quot; a whole new rightful respect for it's rich past filled with sheer artistic brilliance and depth of knowledge, and I need not mention those aspirations which are the highest humankind can ever aspire to in any age that are herein depicted and portrayed in the most profound ways imaginable that many dragons herein seem almost ready to take flight in many a reader's enriched mind...ouroboros, the snake that eats itself revolves furiously and only ceases and stands still when the book is opened so that its admirers may better perceive its classical serpentine symmetry...such is the magic that is just barely contained in this museum catalogue from the deepest recesses of humankind's time here in these terrestrial &amp; celestial spheres in the immense spaces, sublime in all the terror they hold for such miniscule beings, (&quot;Aliens of Universal charity&quot; as Constant said) aspiring to so large a consciousness which is charted in the finest infinitesimal details in this atlas of human history.	2001-10-21
US	44842080	RE05O71904PHF	0791431207	359675888	Paschal Beverly Randolph: A Nineteenth-Century Black American Spiritualist, Rosicrucian, and Sex Magician (Suny Series in Western Esoteric Traditions)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	The Ansairetic Mystery, or a New Revelation Concerning SEX!	[....]readers should known or probably infer from the esteemed SUNY press W.E.T. series that Deveney cites ALL sources, resultant of some 150 pages of extensive notes which are a worthy and entertaining/informative read in themselves! Also, P.B.R.'s Occult philosophy and practical systems/methodologies are explored in a highly scholarly yet equally accessible manner, and as an appendix are given in their entirety two of PBR's most essential Sexual Magic works, for which I have appropriated the title of this review. Though a scholarly work, as well as an historical one, it is throughout biographically focused on an 19th century Exemplary Mage's Life and Work!	2001-10-09
US	44842080	RN7B6W0ZWBRAM	048625738X	511226596	Compendium Maleficarum: The Montague Summers Edition (Dover Occult)	Books	5	7	22	N	N	The Plague of Renaissance Literature...	The Milanese Monk of the Ambrosini, Francesco Maria Guazzo (also known as &quot;Guaccio&quot;)didn't so much WRITE his famous best-selling Demonological compendium of the first decade of the 17th century as COMPILE it, taking from myriad more authoritative sources various tasty selections to appease his dark ecclesiastical appetite for outlandish and freakish historical incident and intrigue. His two main sources constantly cited and relied upon to bail him out at difficult moments of religious versus scientific/physical debate, are Martino Del Rio and Nicholas Remy, whom I believe after making an intensive study of his works to be his favorite authors; yet he cites throughout from such varied sources as theological works such as Trithemius; hermetic philosophy such as Ficino; as well as Scientific sources such as the immense 39 volume work of Pliny the Elder's, &quot;Natural History&quot;! All in all I would ask readers not to judge Guazzo's Witchcraft anthology from an ethical standpoint, though this may be difficult for Modern Pagans, but I would plead what benefit can come from serving the servants? I find it sadly ironic and telling that in our so-called &quot;Enlightened&quot; contemporary-day of supposed sympathetic mercies some would burn at the stake the very secular and ecclesiastical court leaders who persecuted and were actually demonic enough, centuries ago, to carry through and burn the Witches of the Renaissance era! Those persecutor of the Renaissance are the greatest historical examples of Black magicians in my humbled opinion! They are the ones who terrified yet controlled by almost magical manipulation sometimes vast crowds that thronged the executions, usually on Friday or Saturdays for local entertainment of course! (which is so sick)... I would beg people (Pagan, Christian, or otherwise) of today not to submit themselves to the very sickness and demonological excess &amp; debauch that allowed our forbears to justify their deplorable actions, and Not Regress to their unreasoned state of disenchanted hatred. Know that GUAZZO however, had nothing or very little to do with any actual burnings or persecutions unless he be blamed for printing this work which caused and spread hysteria even further than it should have ever gone. For that is the power of the written word which the renaissance learned by tragic error and the very trial of souls burned at those almost sacred poles which have become as sacred relics, remnants of human barbarity testifying to the crimes women especially have suffered (see Jule`s Michelet's beautiful history of Witchcraft and Satanism for a profound, poetic &amp; learned sociological History of Women). It is the secular courts that ultimately are responsible for the burnings; though admittedly Pope Innocent VIII's papal Bull put this power into the hands of local authorities so the church is really just as responsible for what happened, and continues to happen in one subtle form of prejudice or genuine hatred in our own day. The hanging of criminals in the Old West or the commie Witch hunts in the Pacific Northwest in the 1920-50's differ only in scale from what was slowly but surely dissolving when guazzo printed his COMPENDIUM MALEFICARUM, one of the most colorful Demonological texts ever printed, and that on a wide level of dispersion, yet not nearly the equal of the dreaded Malleus Maleficarum, published in many tongues, which I personally hold responsible for 1000's of known deaths, many more perhaps unrecorded. My studies of Guazzo's work is in relation to THE ORIGINS OF GOTHIC LITERATURE, English &amp; German mainly, as my interpretation of his and many another Malefic treatise is in relation the BIRTH OF FICTION, or BOOKS READ FOR ENTERTAINMENT, which Guazzo's was I assure the world not read strictly by Theologians or Lawyers! For his Literary bent is evident on every page! It really is exemplary prose in the Horrific realm of Mysterious and Murderous fictions, and what can easily be termed ROMANCE permeates every page regardless how &quot;R-E-A-L&quot; or Superstitious &amp; illusive were those things reputed or recorded therein! The invention/innovation of Guttenberg's press revolutionized the dispersal rate of Malefic works such as Guazzo's and all the 'Hammer's of Heresy' of the Inquisition, and the equivalent of criers would read aloud to the illiterate the innumerable entertaining stories Guazzo's work stocks like there's no tomorrow, as changes being made were evident even in 1608-9 yet I doubt Guazzo was highly aware or much cared for what went on outside the monastic walls that surrounded and guarded him. He was the perfect candidate for Gothic fiction: Cloistered, religiously devout, with a tendency for exaggeration, with very poetic/romantic sensibilities. Irrefutable is his highly polished and stylized poetic-prose which has enough literary merit I feel to warrant John Rodker's legendary press (who printed many another work beside just Guazzo's!---with catholic scholar Montague Summers writing introductions for most of them) in re-printing this classic work in 1929, as well as Dover Press doing so again in 1988. It shall stay in print I imagine for many centuries to come as its historical value is of the highest category, whether in Art/Literary History, Cultural/Sociological/Anthropological studies, even Legality and of course medicine has come into question along with scientific history; and folklorists have a goldmine to plunder in the encyclopedic Compendium of Guazzo's! &quot;Magic&quot;, Richard Keickhefer says, &quot;is the crossroads of History&quot;. Guazzo's COMPENDIUM MALEFICARUM is a famous alley of various rowdy bars of great learning &amp; blasphemous rumor, as well as immense lore circulating in Italian Renaissance storytelling fashion where one can hear innumerable fantastic and grotesque tales from all over Europe and elsewhere being told on every page of the Ambrosian Monk's great contribution to the Historyof Human intellectual &amp; Spiritual Evolution through the colorful stained lens of prose as intricate as the church windows of the Gothic cathedrals...	2001-10-08
US	44842080	R3695X9X4INS9U	0791431193	359675888	Paschal Beverly Randolph: A Nineteenth-Century Black American Spiritualist, Rosicrucian, and Sex Magician (S U N Y SERIES IN WESTERN ESOTERIC TRADITIONS)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	The Ansairetic Mystery, or a New Revelation Concerning SEX!	Paschal Beverly Randolph (1825-1875)was one of the first well-known Afro-American Novelists (if not THE FIRST), of whom Frederick Douglas was an admirer, and one of the most famous as well as sincere mediums of the Spiritualist movement, famous for his speeches of whom President Johnson was a fan, and a KEY figure in bridging the gap between that nec-romantic movement flowering dangerously into the European/American Occult Revival of the mid-late 19th century. He grew up an orphan in a murderous section of NYC; had almost no schooling, (yet became a recognized genius by sheer will/determination and self-discipline) who lived in the &quot;(spiritually) Burnt-out&quot; district of upstate NY where he added the abbr. &quot;DR.&quot; to his title and sold his Glyphae Battah (Magic Mirrors)and Hashish, love &amp; healing philtres:'snake-oil' basically, and married a part Native-American Indian Woman and tried to raise a family in dire poverty. And this is just the beginning to his life! He was very influential in getting Black soldiers into the US military in the last years of the Civil War(&amp; getting them paid like any good-willing American!)...also, Blavatsky gleaned much from him, I think her writings concerning Randolph evidences, if only his living example of an highly artistic and Original one-man Occult campaign via Randolph's numerous Rosicrucian brotherhoods which The Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor would later appropriate nearly ALL of Randolphs ideas to immense practical benefit (see Godwins and Deveneys co-efforts in releasing many key documents in relation to this group), while the Theosophists waged war against that very practicality deeming it black magic basically...later the Surrealists' devoured Randolph's magical works which were circulated widely through the Russian-born Parisian Surrealist Maria de Naglowska efforts...How does a man like this, who entertained at the court of Napoleon and who counted President Lincoln as an acquaintance as well as knew most every influential Occultist/Abolitionist/reformer/Free Love Politician / Spiritualist of his day (Bulwer-Lytton, Hargrave Jennings, Laurence Oliphaunt, Andrew Jackson Davis,et al. ad infinitum)how does such a figure disappear from history? as if suspiciously erased? The question is as tragic as Randolph's life, for it is a pained life full of much suffering, bore throughout with nobility if despairingness at his predicament. He is a beautiful writer--one must allow him that at least---whose sexual magic works serve as a poignant appendix to Deveney's excellent and thorough 600-plus page biography of a life that serves as an intimate magnifying-glass to probe into the goings-ons of an era filled to overflowing with myriad colorful characters and the energy and excitement of endless rounds of ingenious scientific discoveries and religious aspirations/explorations which as the Poet Osip Mandelstam said &quot;if ever there was a golden age surely it was the 19th century!&quot;   Wherever you may be John Patrick Deveney, I thank you a thousand times over while reading this and thank you still for giving us this touching biography which served as a means to truly know what it must have been like to have lived in Randolph's day, during an age of 'Romanticism' and later,'Symbolism' in Art, while an Occult revival raged, made up of a noble search for self-knowledge and universal Uptopianist solutions to universal ills, and art finally becoming a RELIGION itself!...Western Esoteric studies should take as an example Deveney's biographical tome, and know the history of the world is in the lives of men and women more than anyplace else, as Jules Michelet pointed out a hundred years ago...I would suggest to anyone interested in gaining a first hand insight into an era &amp; a subject finally lent proper credence to be studied seriously as it should be respected even if despised by &quot;religious realists&quot;...to read this book full of a life lived with such style &amp; grace. Randolph's motto was: &quot;T-R-Y !&quot;...which is what I would say to others here interested in reading a rare work of an even rarer life that hopefully will become part of the American Artistic and Cultural iconography and more widely known literary canon because of Deveney's immense efforts and achievements herein! Bravo Deveney!<BR>---readers should known or probably infer from the esteemed SUNY press W.E.T. series that Deveney cites ALL sources, resultant of some 150 pages of extensive notes which are a worthy and entertaining/informative read in themselves! Also, P.B.R.'s Occult philosophy and practical systems;/methodologies are explored in a highly scholarly yet equally accessible manner; though a scholarly work, as well as an historical one, it is throughout focused on an 19th century Exemplary Mage's Life and Work!	2001-10-05
US	44842080	R38MVMYZDUYP0J	0882334697	146635714	The Ardis anthology of Russian futurism	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another Slap in the Face of Public taste!	Elena Guro, velimir Khlebnikov, Nikolai &amp; David Burlyuk, Osip Brik, Vladimir Mayakovsky, Evgeny Zamayatin, Boris Pasternak, &amp; several other Russian Futurians (in exact contradistinction to their alien Italian counter-productives) championing &quot;ZAUM&quot; (Trans-Rational poetics, pronounced &quot;Za-oom&quot;) grace this compilation; and at over 400 pages with about 50 priceless photos &amp; illustrations, this is simply the best translated and most complete anthology of Russian Futurism ever compiled. Both Proffers'are heroes, they established the legendary ARDIS press decades ago, which has done for Russian Literature what Dedalus Press does for English translated Decadent &amp; Symbolist Lit., Atlas Press does for German Expressionist &amp; experimental Lit., and Exact Change Press does for late 19th-early 20th cen. Lit....etcetera. It's nothing less than criminal such compilations as this, labours of fantastic love affairs, to be out of print; No less tragic that ARDIS Press is in agonized death throes, and's going out of &quot;the business of healing words&quot;, with little or no funereal wake besides a few congregated lovers of Russian Lit. that have subscribed to their unequalled dedicated genius for having birthed such exemplary tomes as their ANTHOLOGY OF RUSSIAN FUTURISM.<BR>&quot;It's been Mayakovsky Street for thousands of years: he who shot himself here at the door of his beloved.&quot; Such did Mayakovsky pen these prophetic stanzas in one of this book's greatest contributions: the autobio poem &quot;A Man&quot;. here is KHLEBNIKOV, The King Of Time with his blaring Trumpet of the Martians calling all poets to arm themselves with divine laughter and mousetraps to catch the dirty politicians of today as well as Russia in the 1920's, perhaps the most experimentally rich era in ALL literary history, which several ARDIS ANTHOLOGY'S explore in a manner befitting of the Artists Lives &amp; works; divulged fully no matter how intellectually bloodysuch a feat may be when the assassin's knives, previously buried to the hilt in history's back almost a century ago are drawn from old swollen wounds...Poetry's life blood drenches these pages, especially the first half of the book, as the second part covers their aesthetics and philosophy, a treasure-trove for the historian and academians. The reader is privvy to rare photos of Khlebnikov wearing a basket for a hat; Mayakovsky dressed in his yellow dress fitted with pistols and topped off with his immense witch-hat, which is how he comported himself in those revolutionary days; Futurist assemblies with animals etched on their cheeks in true Indian war-paint tradition; Filonov's cosmic paintings in constant cellular metamorphosis; the legendary books themselves which the Futurists ressurected in beautiful hand-crafted editions. And of course their writings, often making more famous surreal and dada works seem merely complimentary as far as experimental improv. and breadth of vision is concerned. In short, the book is worth hunting for, and any unbounded Love shown unearthing it I would consider justifiable homicide; any other ARDIS antho. such as &quot;Russian Lit. in the 1920's&quot;, which is readily had here in this webbed site, are vast pyramids &amp; literary sphinxes buried in unguarded advanced sands, and I would hail them from this Amazonian encampment as loud as my screams could carry...	2001-09-08
US	44842080	R193WG2RT0LW6J	0312252439	859125624	Do What Thou Wilt: A Life of Aleister Crowley	Books	5	3	6	N	N	&quot;I Will A Round, Unvarnished Tale Deliver!&quot;	Lawrence Sutin, best Biographer of Sci-Fi Cosmonaut Gnostic Genius Philip K. Dick, has likewise written simply the best Aleister Crowley biography (over the course of almost a decade of investigation and citing ALL sources) and one that is available with relative ease today. Out of the many bio.'s of Crowley, Sutin's is by far the most well-rounded ever penned! Giving equal attentions to all the vast areas &amp; arenas of the Prophet's life, &amp; writ with a rare verve and fair insight lacking in many unbeastly biographies. Sutin has fashioned an INTELLIGENT &amp; RESPECTIVE summation of 'The Beast's many infamous &amp; darkly fascinating intrigues &amp; exploits, as well as penetrated the Sanctum Regnum of the Occultist, taking the reader on a magickal journey around the world through the many Ritual guises this Ceremonial Mage operated under, informing us of the basics &amp; some specifics as to what was being valiantly attempted in his magickal works. He exemplifies A.C.'s immense erudition by citing brilliant examples excerpted from Crowley's ferociously Wittical works, which he is fair in assessing, though by his own preferences' (which is a really the most honest way in the end) proving once and for all the unbounded extent of this Cambridge man's scholarly knowledge in regards to Literature, psychology, science, philosophy, and comparative religion, and the great outdoors, with a profound love of them all which Crowley maintained throughout his long life (1875-1947). Shown also is the Man, the fearless Mountain-climber, big game hunter and explorer, who walked across China with wife &amp; child; climbed the then (1900's) two highest mts. in the world, and who holds numerous world records for his largely still-unacknowledged mountaineering achievments! &amp; ? Sutin goes into the legends as well, including the ridiculous propagandic assumptions and newspaper tabloid headlines, as well as the hysterical responses evoked by both puritans and skeptics. But Sutindoesn't set out to defend Crowley, who needs nor ever asked for any, and sticks to the facts which just happen in many cases to be on his side, and just as often not. For Crowley was essentially a 19th century Occultist, and the very last of the great Mages of the Symbolist-Decadent fin-de-siecle generation,(A.C. was 25 at the turn of the century) and my only regret in Sutin's work is the lack of this facet of his persons being more thoroughly explored,(ie. the Golden Dawn cultural surroundings). Likewise uncovered by Sutin is the 35 year Heroin &amp; Cocaine addict; the masochistic &amp; sadistic tireless lover who was still bedding down with wild 19 yr. old Germanic demonesses at some 60 years old! As well as the homosexual relations of this praetersexual bald Osiris who wanted all his life to be a hermaphrodite(in his own words). The fascinating charcters which marched in endless procession through The Beast's life like a tribe of Abra-Melin Demons are here described and given actual flesh &amp; bones from which the nec-romantic student can proceed to dig up in conducting further researches(such as the great Occult journalist William B. Seabrook or Dylan Thomas's poetic father Victor Neuburg). Famous Artists all praising Crowley likewise enter, such as Rodin (who so much admired Crowley's Poetry he wept to invite him to Meudon to write of all his masterworks!), Joseph Conrad(who said of Crowley's stories: &quot;they are the best written in English in the past decade!&quot;- such opinions from such Artists hold far more weight than those of contemporary disgruntled critics!-at least to me), Frank Harris, Aldous Huxley, Christopher Isherwood, Somerset Maugham, et.al..In comparison, the biographies of Booth, Symonds, regardie, Hutchinson, King, Wilson, Suster, etc. ALL have merits and worths of their own, but NONE is so evenly written and non-judgemental, nor so fair and respective of their subject, which the ending of Sutin's bio. verifies in its acceptance of Crowley for what he is, and is asessed according not to what the world thought, but according to Crowley's own criteria measured by what He strove for, which is nothing less than the Prophet of a new aeon and the founder of a new Religion. Crowley died without becoming prey to bitterness; died with the courage of his convictions intact without accepting any other religions dying rites. Such are just some of the accomplishments Sutin testifies to the Man, the Mage, and the Poet that ALL Crowley's biographers must contend with (as C.R.Cammell's biographical memoir set the stage for) and ever justifies the constant need and demand for further investigations into Crowley's life and works. Sutin's just happens to be one of the better ones. Crowley had a confidence and mystery surrounding him that made female horses as well as biographers, critics, and the courts whinny after him when he passed down the street! His BOOK OF THE LAW as Sutin shows has indeed come to pass prophetically if one takes the time to actually read it, and such is to be the measure of any man or woman, accorded to their own relativity, and as Crowley asserted all his life: &quot;Success will be my only Proof&quot;!	2001-08-05
US	44842080	R2DRIGF2XU6MIJ	0486228371	651493026	La-Bas (Down There)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	FROM THE BROTHEL TO THE CLOISTER	Amidst the Occult revival &amp; the glory days of Decadence, of all places Paris, 1891, high aloft the bell-tower of Saint-Sulpice, far away from where &quot;progress is but the refinement of the vices&quot;, the reader's granted access to the extraordinary conversations of a small group of friends: a famous &amp; capable physician with sincere intellectual occult inclinations; a most reknown ex-court Astrologer; a kindly, aged sage with a rare, profound learning of the lost Art of Bellringing, accompanied by his wife who both occupy the tower making of it intimate &amp; cozy surroundings for their company; and lastly, Durtal--Huysmans himself--who is deep in study &amp; pursuit of placing contemporary Satanism in its proper historical context, revolving all the while round his writing a biography of Gilles de Rais, the infamous Black Magician &amp; child murderer reputed to have tortured, killed &amp; raped some 500 children for expressed Satanic purposes, who was also a friend of none other than &quot;Joan of Arc&quot; and who fought at her side as one of France's greatest knights. For this murderer, this monster, is in the process of becoming a saint! Durtal narrates the episodic history of Gilles de Rais throughout the entire book, forming a naturalistic vision as well of Huysmans' the writer going about his daily life in a way Occultist &amp; Artists today might find familiar or enviable for its intrigues &amp; dark fascinations lived &amp; not just dreamt of. <br />      Also permeating the whole of the text is a genuine succubus of sorts, an 'idol of perversity', &quot;one of the butcher-girls of Love&quot; who like virtually ALL the charcters is modelled on real-life personages whose actual titles I will not assault any interested persons with, allowing them their own rewarding historical investigations. However, anyone with art-historic or occultic knowledge regarding the turn of the 19th century in France will probably recognize some of the cast from these&quot;Lower Depths&quot;--which is what &quot;La-Bas&quot; means. Such as &quot;Dr. Johannes&quot;, a Healer from the mystical center of France, Lyons; in actuality this is the abbe Boullan, successor of the Prophet Eugene Vintras(1807-1875), founder of an apocalyptic cultus prophesizing a great explosion signalling all Hell on Earth. The abbe Boullan was famous/infamous for his sexual magic and Healing techniques such as his curing of diabolical illnesses by spitting in the afflicted's mouths, or rubbing poultices of excreta on their psychic wounds, and compelling the nuns whom he serviced, invested with the titles of the Catholic church, to drink their urine. In 1860 he sacrificially murdered his own child born of his primary voyant, sister Adele Chevalier. Abbe Boullan's own death, so Huysman's believed, was resultant of the curses of another famous Mage. What is important to grasp is that during the fin-de-siecle Art History reached its zenith, its pinnacle, its furthest point culminating after millennia in the Symbolists/Decadents/Aesthetes; and it was in Occultism that the Artist found a definition of their own position &amp; state of being; thus was this the day when born was our modern conception of Art as a religion, and the Artist its high priest or magician. Art will never be the same again, for after this Art seems to come in rising waves of &quot;advanced guards&quot;...<br />     Joris-Karl Huysmans bridges the chasm between the Occult underground &amp; literary establishment like no other; ultimately, I feel, championing the underground. This is the first book of a trilogy charting Huysman's journey from the brothels of Satanism &amp; decadent Paris to the cloisters of Catholicism &amp; reclusive refuge, where his interests in spirituality &amp; occult/esoteric lore lessen none at all---The second book is titled &quot;En Route&quot; of 1895 &amp; the last &quot;The Cathedral&quot; from 1898---all are available from Dedalus Press and apparently a newtranslation, the first in over 75 years, of &quot;La-Bas&quot; has been undertaken by one Brendan King.(?) Such could be(?)far superior to Keene Wallace's respective 1928 translation, whose greatest errors lie in its restrictions downplaying Huysman's lyrical tone especially in relating stylized Satanic events, and though it would be difficult to seriously louse up Huysmans'prose, he has suffered omissions and the flattening or simplifying of his poetic gifts due to moral issue in the past. <br />     Huysman's is a journey rewarding for its realism laying bare the psyche of a sensitive, intelligent man, &amp; is seductive in its romantic portrayal of the Artist/Occultist risk-taker, willing to go as far as 'the powers that be' will allow him, ever-searching for the highest truths and brutally honest in admitting what's often painful to accept for the religious seeker. I feel Huysman's trilogy is a neglected masterpiece of the Symbolist-Decadent generation, poignant in exemplifying a familiar journey so many braved. <br />     As Huysmans says, &quot;Such Literature has only one excuse for existing; it saves the person who makes it from the disgustingness of life...and charitably, it lessens the distress of us few who still love Art.&quot;	2001-08-03
US	44842080	R2BFH7XBDH9IT9	0486228371	651493026	La-Bas (Down There)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	&quot;Progress is the Hypocrisy which Refines the Vices&quot;	Amidst the Occult revival &amp; the glory days of Decadence, of all places Paris, 1891, high aloft the bell-tower of Saint-Sulpice, the reader's granted access to the extraordinary conversations of a small group of friends: a famous &amp; capable physician with sincere intellectual occult inclinations; a most reknown ex-court Astrologer; a kindly, aged sage with a rare, profound learning of the lost Art of Bellringing, accompanied by his wife who both occupy the tower making of it intimate &amp; cozy surroundings for their company; and lastly, Durtal--Huysmans himself--who is deep in study &amp; pursuit of placing contemporary Satanism in its proper historical context, revolving all the while round his writing a biography of Gilles de Rais, the infamous Black Magician &amp; child murderer reputed to have tortured, killed &amp; raped some 500 children for expressed Satanic purposes, who was also a friend of none other than &quot;Joan of Arc&quot; and who fought at her side as one of France's greatest knights. For this murderer, this monster, is in the process of becoming a saint! Durtal narrates the episodic history of Gilles de Rais throughout the entire book, forming a naturalistic vision as well of Huysmans' the writer going about his daily life in a way Occultist &amp; Artists today might find familiar or enviable for its intrigues &amp; dark fascinations lived &amp; not just dreamt of. <br />      Also permeating the whole of the text is a genuine succubus of sorts, an 'idol of perversity', &quot;one of the butcher-girls of Love&quot; who like virtually ALL the charcters is modelled on real-life personages whose actual titles I will not assault any interested persons with, allowing them their own rewarding historical investigations. However, anyone with art-historic or occultic knowledge regarding the turn of the 19th century in France will probably recognize some of the cast from these &quot;Lower Depths&quot;--which is what &quot;La-Bas&quot; means. Such as &quot;Dr. Johannes&quot;, a Healer from the mystical center of France, Lyons; in actuality this is the abbe Boullan, successor of the Prophet Eugene Vintras(1807-1875), founder of an apocalyptic cultus prophesizing a great explosion signalling all Hell on Earth. The abbe Boullan was famous/infamous for his sexual magic and Healing techniques such as his curing of diabolical illnesses by spitting in the afflicted's mouths, or rubbing poultices of excreta on their psychic wounds, and compelling the nuns whom he serviced, invested with the titles of the Catholic church, to drink their urine. In 1860 he sacrificially murdered his own child born of his primary voyant, sister Adele Chevalier. Abbe Boullan's own death, so Huysman's believed, was resultant of the curses of another famous Mage. What is important to grasp is that during the fin-de-siecle Art History reached its zenith, its pinnacle, its furthest point culminating after millennia in the Symbolists/Decadents/Aesthetes; and it was in Occultism that the Artist found a definition of their own position &amp; state of being; thus was this the day when born was our modern conception of Art as a religion, and the Artist its high priest or magician. Art will never be the same again, for after this Art seems to come in rising waves of &quot;advanced guards&quot;...<br />     Joris-Karl Huysmans bridges the chasm between the Occult underground &amp; establishment like no other; ultimately, I feel, championing the underground. This is the first book of a trilogy charting Huysman's journey from the brothels of Satanism &amp; decadent Paris to the cloisters of Catholicism &amp; reclusive refuge, where his interests in spirituality &amp; occult/esoteric lore lessen none at all---The second book is titled &quot;En Route&quot; of 1895 &amp; the last &quot;The Cathedral&quot; from 1898---all are available from Dedalus Press and apparently a new translation, the first in over 75 years, of &quot;La-Bas&quot; has been undertaken byone Brendan King.(?) Such could be far superior to Keene Wallace's respective 1928 translation, whose greatest errors lie in its restrictions downplaying Huysman's lyrical tone especially in relating stylized Satanic events, and though it would be difficult to seriously louse up Huysmans'prose, he has suffered omissions and the flattening or simplifying of his poetic gifts due to moral issue in the past. <br />     Huysman's is a journey rewarding for its realism laying bare the psyche of a sensitive, intelligent man, &amp; seductive in its romantic portrayal of the Artist/Occultist risk-taker, willing to go as far as 'the powers that be' will allow him, ever-searching for the highest truths and brutally honest in admitting what's often painful to accept for the religious seeker. I feel Huysman's trilogy is a neglected masterpiece of the Symbolist-Decadent generation, poignant in exemplifying a familiar journey so many braved. <br />     As Huysmans says, &quot;Such Literature has only one excuse for existing; it saves the person who makes it from the disgustingness of life...and charitably, it lessens the distress of us few who still love Art.&quot;	2001-08-03
US	44842080	R1A6YFSI0AA2QZ	0486228371	651493026	La-Bas (Down There)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	FROM THE BROTHEL TO THE CLOISTER	Amidst the Occult revival &amp; the glory days of Decadence, of all places Paris, 1891, high aloft the bell-tower of Saint-Sulpice, far away from where &quot;progress is but the refinement of the vices&quot;, the reader's granted access to the extraordinary conversations of a small group of friends: a famous &amp; capable physician with sincere intellectual occult inclinations; a most reknown ex-court Astrologer; a kindly, aged sage with a rare, profound learning of the lost Art of Bellringing, accompanied by his wife who both occupy the tower making of it intimate &amp; cozy surroundings for their company; and lastly, Durtal--Huysmans himself--who is deep in study &amp; pursuit of placing contemporary Satanism in its proper historical context, revolving all the while round his writing a biography of Gilles de Rais, the infamous Black Magician &amp; child murderer reputed to have tortured, killed &amp; raped some 500 children for expressed Satanic purposes, who was also a friend of none other than &quot;Joan of Arc&quot; and who fought at her side as one of France's greatest knights. For this murderer, this monster, is in the process of becoming a saint! Durtal narrates the episodic history of Gilles de Rais throughout the entire book, forming a naturalistic vision as well of Huysmans' the writer going about his daily life in a way Occultist &amp; Artists today might find familiar or enviable for its intrigues &amp; dark fascinations lived &amp; not just dreamt of. <br />      Also permeating the whole of the text is a genuine succubus of sorts, an 'idol of perversity', &quot;one of the butcher-girls of Love&quot; who like virtually ALL the charcters is modelled on real-life personages whose actual titles I will not assault any interested persons with, allowing them their own rewarding historical investigations. However, anyone with art-historic or occultic knowledge regarding the turn of the 19th century in France will probably recognize some of the cast from these&quot;Lower Depths&quot;--which is what &quot;La-Bas&quot; means. Such as &quot;Dr. Johannes&quot;, a Healer from the mystical center of France, Lyons; in actuality this is the abbe Boullan, successor of the Prophet Eugene Vintras(1807-1875), founder of an apocalyptic cultus prophesizing a great explosion signalling all Hell on Earth. The abbe Boullan was famous/infamous for his sexual magic and Healing techniques such as his curing of diabolical illnesses by spitting in the afflicted's mouths, or rubbing poultices of excreta on their psychic wounds, and compelling the nuns whom he serviced, invested with the titles of the Catholic church, to drink their urine. In 1860 he sacrificially murdered his own child born of his primary voyant, sister Adele Chevalier. Abbe Boullan's own death, so Huysman's believed, was resultant of the curses of another famous Mage. What is important to grasp is that during the fin-de-siecle Art History reached its zenith, its pinnacle, its furthest point culminating after millennia in the Symbolists/Decadents/Aesthetes; and it was in Occultism that the Artist found a definition of their own position &amp; state of being; thus was this the day when born was our modern conception of Art as a religion, and the Artist its high priest or magician. Art will never be the same again, for after this Art seems to come in rising waves of &quot;advanced guards&quot;...<br />     Joris-Karl Huysmans bridges the chasm between the Occult underground &amp; literary establishment like no other; ultimately, I feel, championing the underground. This is the first book of a trilogy charting Huysman's journey from the brothels of Satanism &amp; decadent Paris to the cloisters of Catholicism &amp; reclusive refuge, where his interests in spirituality &amp; occult/esoteric lore lessen none at all---The second book is titled &quot;En Route&quot; of 1895 &amp; the last &quot;The Cathedral&quot; from 1898---all are available from Dedalus Press and apparently a newtranslation, the first in over 75 years, of &quot;La-Bas&quot; has been undertaken by one Brendan King.(?) Such could be(?)far superior to Keene Wallace's respective 1928 translation, whose greatest errors lie in its restrictions downplaying Huysman's lyrical tone especially in relating stylized Satanic events, and though it would be difficult to seriously louse up Huysmans'prose, he has suffered omissions and the flattening or simplifying of his poetic gifts due to moral issue in the past. <br />     Huysman's is a journey rewarding for its realism laying bare the psyche of a sensitive, intelligent man, &amp; is seductive in its romantic portrayal of the Artist/Occultist risk-taker, willing to go as far as 'the powers that be' will allow him, ever-searching for the highest truths and brutally honest in admitting what's often painful to accept for the religious seeker. I feel Huysman's trilogy is a neglected masterpiece of the Symbolist-Decadent generation, poignant in exemplifying a familiar journey so many braved. <br />     As Huysmans says, &quot;Such Literature has only one excuse for existing; it saves the person who makes it from the disgustingness of life...and charitably, it lessens the distress of us few who still love Art.&quot;	2001-08-03
US	44842080	R2HH66CZPIS9BT	1873982534	128768868	The Torture Garden (Empire of the Senses)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	&quot;ART, milady, consists in knowing how to kill...	...Art, milady, consist in knowing how to kill, according to Rituals of Beauty.&quot; so recites an executioner far more disturbing and just as profound as Kafka's self-mutilations 'In The Penal Colony'. Octave Mirbeau's fin-de-siecle brutal fairy-tale is divided down the middle forming a novel hermaphrodite. The first side exploratory of the monstrous exterior life and career of our main character, modelled on Octave Mirbeau himself given the intimate revealings of an anarchists' psyche in considering cultural morals. It produced in me several years ago when I decided against indulging in its perversions a definite revulsion &amp; base attraction; the fault is entirely my own. The book is one where each reader must confront not just realistic characters, but materializations in one's own mind; I am now as a man who has just come full circle in the revolutions of a dark planet consisting of many 'dark nights of the soul' spent in the folds of this amorous creature. Mirbeau charts the progresssion of murder, expounding on topics affecting our contemporary society only more so than his own; foremost is Murder being the primary reason all government exists, as well as calling for their continuation, lest we all openly slaughter one another. Here are discussed serial-killers, televised execution, the hero-illusion suffered by video games &amp; carnival freakshow, the glorification of the ideal soldier in his dutiful murderous abilities, here are the worships of public sports as ritual leftovers from war channelled into arenas built as high &amp; mighty as churches, and the extinction of hunting &amp; the chase &amp; the kill spawning inhuman hunters of human prey...murder as well channelled into celebration &amp; Artistic endeavor, and perhaps most profoundly, murder born from love &amp; reaching its ultimate goal in orgasm with sex itself based on murder's very motions, strivings, the same physiological sensations, often made up of the same harsh words &amp; tone of voice coupled with various levels of pleasure &amp; pain...      The other section of this divided self takes one into the interior of the Chinese Garden, where rich black soil profits from the innumerable bodies decomposing in its cellular maw. Taking us on this tour is none other than &quot;Clara&quot;, a veritable Salome, the Demonic Woman par excellence; yet at the same time not very different from any other woman who's affected her unsuspecting lovers in ways that left them horrified and in awe of her overwhelming sexual nature, so much a part of her that she bleeds ritually from the wound it has made of her middle. Our main character at first begs her understanding forgiveness of his own dirty conscience &amp; the beastiality he feels has made a veritable demon of himself; unsuspecting of her nature until it is she who takes him to her favorite place in the world: the torture garden.      Here are encountered sub-limits of barbarous erotica, blooming hothouse flowers that are but sexual organs more refined &amp; pronounced than the appendages of humankind. Our green-eyed red-haired Clara does unthought of wonders with the pollens &amp; poisons of these, the rarest flowers collected from all over the world and tended to with exacting delicacy by traditional Chinese gardeners trained in the fine Arts of Torture &amp; horticulture, now extinct except for this one last garden preserved within the quadrilateral confines of perhaps the largest prison in the world, where upon entering it's as if a whole new self-sifficient sky &amp; atmosphere is found here, heightening one's senses to the pitch of delirium, the reader's as well. It is a place of sublime brutality, where sex &amp; death are mingled to an unprecedented degree unimagined by the world's most glorious murderers and sexual deviants. The story will not be given away by a low aspirant who can only give praises unto such magickal works as encountered there. He promises though only the highest quality of tortures, none of that cheap pulpous stuff found in cheap bestselling fiction, this tale is not made up of fruitless &amp; pointless indulgences in the wasted efforts of the truly useless Arts of &quot;entertainment-only&quot;! Only the most exquisite depths of debauch and the highest grandiose summits are scaled, in a highly refined manner than took centuries to develop. Be assured, if you must, such is a cleansing purification rite upon the organs &amp; instruments of eternal human suffering, so valiently though vainly attempted in the depiction of Chrixt nailed and hung upon his crucifix. Disturbing?-yes, to those who would feign innocence &amp; turn red when caught, possessed of unspeakable thoughts, in the all-seeing eyes of a great work of Literature; even if just fixed for a moment by the eyes of a knowing character in a book that casts no eternal damnation? &quot;It is, of course, an indecent novel, because it assults the very notion of &quot;decency&quot; as a hollow sham!&quot;	2001-07-25
US	44842080	R3G1KITJK77K8X	0877281467	890817601	Diary of a Drug Fiend	Books	5	3	7	N	N	the-HERO-INside-of-us-all; of  deservedly dark repute!	The unrepentant Mage Aleister Crowley has here writ besides the FIRST self-help book on Heroin &amp; Cocaine addiction, also the BEST!        The Master-Therion does nothing less than psychologically maneuver the reader into a defenseless position and throw needles at them!          Entirely correct that to the intellectually-minded and philosophically-disposed person, there is NOTHING like HEROIN addiction to brutally test the limits and bounds of their mind's total capacity!          Crowley has 35 years of experience under his witch hat when it comes to what he called the three kings-&quot;smo, drin, &amp; fuc&quot;- and an education at Cambridge and Trinity to back him up. If you doubt his erudition for any reason simply consult his 900-plus page autohagiography.          The 370 page novel was dictated by the Occult Master to the Scarlet Woman, Leah Hirsig in just 27 days, 12 &amp; 3/4 hrs. beginning on June 4th, 1922. It is dedicated in part to his youngest daughter, ASTARTE, which points to his sincerity in writing what is essentially autobiographical enough to consider part of his Confessions.            Crowley had the gall &amp; wit to take as his example Dante's 'Divine Comedy', partitioned off in three parts of the same triptych: PARADISO, INFERNO, &amp; PURGATORIO, which affords him to delineate all these aspects of what it is to be a drug fiend.         The novel is really two journals---the first by 'Sir Peter Pendragon' (an inside literary referenced joke) who's modelled on Cecil Maitland (Lover of Mary Butts, the brilliant English writer of the 1920 &amp; 30's, as well as the first editor of 'Magick In Theory &amp; Practice' while both were in residence at the infamous &quot;Abbey&quot;), was briefly a pupil &amp; friend of Crowleys', and is writ in a straightforward if lyrical narrative; the second, by 'Unlimited Lou', is modelled on an imagined adult persona, a &quot;wish-phantasm&quot; of Crowley's eldest daughter, Lola Zaza, and is episodic andrevolves around a brilliant poem composed by The Beast, who's called 'King Lamus' and occupies the real-life 'Abbey Of THELEMA' in Cefalu, Italy between the years 1920-23.       Such a manner of attack, from three differing pov's: a young man's, a young womans', (both in love) and a final treatise expounding the doctrines of a graduated master, allows maximum coverage.      The degree to which Crowley has imposed his own persona upon all three characters is masterful; two in the form of himself: Sir Peter Pendragon being the younger enthusiastic decadent,(via Huysmans') and King Lamus as the aged, experienced Mage; while also speaking in the guise of the lady Unlimited (Crowley openly admitted he always wanted to be a hermaphrodite)being as well various assemblages all greatly affected by Crowley over the course of his first 47 years. Such is this reader's humble opinion anyway, with much gathered evidence besides he might add.      Unrepentant, furiously poetic, psychologically unforgiving, he has human nature pegged down to a crucifixated &quot;T&quot;!(so to speak)      Crowley associates the stages of addiction (now accepted among the establishment but back then unacknowledged, if not balked at and ridiculed) with the ritual initiation rites of ceremonial Magick, which affords him an almost spiritual-psychologocal tool for conducting his various surgeries on the human soul...which modern-day medicine remains ignorant of while refuting its importance; for some strange reason people and learn-ed doctors as well persist to assume/conclude that if you stop ingesting drugs physically it means you will immediately start getting better psychologically (or spiritually) as well?!?! Such a scholar's bane is the occultist's reward in allowing wordly experience to take precedence over scholastic doctrine!       Speaking strictly from a veteran's well-won distance in reviewing the benefits awarded to all by the saints, in light of his many years in the service of the-HERO-INside-of-us-all,(private anagram) Crowley ascertains under the guise of Unlimited Lou:                                                              &quot;I had no idea that those people had got so much sense. I've always thought of them as tangled up with religious ideas. I understand now. Yes, it's the life of holiness, if you have go to the trouble of putting it in terms of morality, as I suppose you (English) people have to...I was one of the chief sinners in my time...Human life or Heroin life? I've tried them both; and I don't regret having chosen as I did.&quot;   <br />     In summation, The Diary Of A Drug Fiend( taken in title after the exemplar of Russian Satire: Gogol's story in yet another literary reference, which abounds in ALL of Crowley's many masterpieces) is a classic must-read among lovers and aspirants of Literature, cultural scholars and historians in the field of drug addiction and psychology, in which it is of no less import or interest than Schreber's &quot;memoirs&quot;; Crowley admirers, as well as Thelemites (another literary allusion of great import in Occultism in gerneral= to Rabelais' 'Gargantua &amp; Pantagruel'-ian ideal utopian society) and of course to fans of the genre of autobiographical drug-related works.      I have never heard of anybody in all these fields ever being let down from the veritable hysteria produced by both the book nor the authors dark reputation, which besides being fostered &amp; deserved, was also earned! As The Mega-Therion said:  &quot;Success will be my only proof!&quot;	2001-07-24
US	44842080	R3SW7VMYORHGXD	1885983018	342837392	Hell	Books	5	21	28	N	N	An Eye Transfixed Spies On All Hell !	Some books are smuggled into our lives in a way that almost begs supernatural interpretation; thus did I unintentionally come across Henri Barbusse's novel: 'HELL'(LeEnfer,Paris,1908); suspiciously placed in my path as by divine intervention. So profound are my affections for this short 250 page book that I cannot forsee the same fate for myself had I not been challenged into taking &quot;the left-hand path&quot; this devil's pitchfork on the road of life signalled.      Our narrator is the very man Colin Wilson used to define &quot;The Outsider&quot; in the opening pages of that influential book; but OUR NARRATOR WHOSE NAME APPEARS NOWHERE is much more than a reference point for late 20th century Art Historical/ Cultural Studies. He is witness to the unspeakable visions of the individual that any sensitive, intelligent young man would see if he were to cast one dark, unholy, voyeuristic eye and the other a tender, humanitarian, all-recording lens that must saturate itself in tears if it is to continue to bear looking any longer at the horrible woes of humankind. Our narrator has barely any hope left, all he has in the world is a hole in the wall in which to view, the world; more specifically, Paris around the turn of the 20th century.       He suffers from the existential metaphysical horror of existence so prevalent in young men of his disposition, who are more concerned with deep matters of the soul than with eeking out a life of dull servitude amongst the financial fanfare of society. It is no surprise Robert Baldick, translator of J.K.Huysmans': &quot;Against Nature&quot;(A Rebours, 1884) chose to translate Barbusse's early novel, although vast differences exist between the two they are of like spiritual &amp; reclusive considerations of new ways of experiencing the world on a much more intimate level than Naturalism or Realism; they process their thoughts to an intensive, hitherto unrealized degree that is considered &quot;Decadent&quot; by many.      The things our narrator sees are everything that most young men are fascinated about: sexuality being high on the list. But it is not just tender LESBIANS devouring each other's venusian mounds that one must encourageingly suffer: ADULTERY, evoking feelings of jealousy in an innocent bystander(?)made of an eye peering at two lover's guilty squirmings; guilty, but like beauty, only in the eye of the voyeur. CHILDBIRTH is seen in all it's horrifying surgical mystery, bloody as only murder can compare, in which a slimy monster is squeezed out of a hole small as the one our narrator sees through; a hole usually reserved for sublime violation in the mind of a young man. DEATH plays a dirge on our narrator's heartstrings that marks the novel with an &quot;X&quot; on its forehead, setting it apart from other more common scenarios, giving our young man &quot;steeped in the infinite&quot; a chance to further his evolutionary spiritual career in that he may play for a while at being an old man's guardian Angel.      These examples should suffice to give those attracted, with perhaps voyeuristic tendencies and a love of immortal Literature an idea of the scale and depths probed by this all-seeing eye in a motel wall. The language is entirely of late Symbolist/Decadent persuasion, poetically lyrical yet realistic and focused in its descriptions; Octave Mirbeau and J.K. Huysmans come to mind. But the book singularly occupies the celestial heights of voyeuristic literature, it has no comparison and is second to none. Its eye is an all-knowing, all-encompassing specimen. I believe it is the only novel of its kind Barbusse wrote, who went on in the surrealist years to be involved with political activities, bearing no evidence of further work in this artistic/spiritual realm in which he wholly succeeded in by birthing this literary only-child of its kind.	2001-07-23
US	44842080	R1IL8MMSXA16QL	014018595X	703596555	The Magician	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Please introduce yourself, Mister Haddo!	The rabid results of a charlatan's inkling of matters occultic, and a young impressionable literary aspirant's efforts to champion intellectual Parisian bohemianism vivdly evokes the wondrous conversations he smuggled out of the &quot;Le Chat Blanc&quot;, a philosophical refuge for learned gents on the Rue d'Odessa in Paris circa the 1900's, here fictionalized &amp; crowned &quot;Chien Noir&quot; in this intriguing &amp; evocative novel. &quot;Oliver Haddo&quot;, the sinister &amp; most fascinating character the world quickly recognized is none other than Edward Alexander (Aleister) Crowley (1875-1947), the English Mage, Poet, &amp; mountain climber. Crowley, proud of the portrait painted of him, likewise had earlier written as an extended introduction to his pornographic mystery: &quot;Snowdrops From A Curate's Garden&quot;, a hilarious portrayal of the same crowd &amp; place suspiciously corroborating Maughams'? &quot;The Magician&quot; has been deemed plagiaristic compilation, but this is a bit fanatical; Somerset merely provides accurate, if lifted elswhere from unreliable sources, all variety &amp; category of magical lore which could be had in any decent bookshop as Occultism was entirely in vogue and Paris was still very much experiencing the effects of the 19th century French Occult Revival. Admittedly, the work is definitely NOT Huysmans! Still, it is this humble reader's opinion it can only be commended for providing Occulture &amp; Literature with a  historical treatise under the guise of fiction, painted in the magicKal colours of an up &amp; coming, much-esteemed author, &quot;who would go on to forge much finer works&quot;---at least, that is how the book is considered by &quot;official and established academia&quot;, somewhat embarrassingly, as well as hypocritically. I feel the work is underrated, as the majority of Maugham's thematics are present as well as explored; the difference lies in that it is composed by a young writer, not yet fully matured, but not suffering any artistic lack because of it; and for that stage in the charting of a writer's progression, he was functioning at peak capacity, completely absorbed by his cast and contents. Besides, a reconciliation of the author's progression is uncalled for and unessential to &quot;properly&quot; enjoy the journey through underground occult Paris we are taken on!, but not suffering any artistic lack because of it; and for that stage in the charting of a writer's progression, he was functioning at peak capacity, completely absorbed by his cast and contents. Besides, a reconciliation of the author's progression is uncalled for and unessential to &quot;properly&quot; enjoy the journey through underground occult Paris we are taken on!	2001-07-20
US	44842080	R21XWW5KKIRRFK	0877289298	960140657	The History of Magic	Books	5	47	52	N	N	the Bane of Scholars is the Occultist's Reward!	Eliphas Levi's &quot;History of Magic&quot; is probably the most singularly beautiful, profoundly romantic and Personal rendering of the history of Magic ever penned. It is as much a sourcebook for the Symbolist/Decadent fin-de-siecle generation as is Baudelaire's Flowers of Evil &amp; Paris Spleen, and ironically, Levi collaborated with Baudelaire on the work entitled:&quot;Les Mysteres Galants&quot;.(webb. Occult Underground,266) It is essential to grasp when involved in such a historical treatise as this, that in Occultism, as in religious thought: EXPERIENCE TAKES PRECEDENCE OVER DOCTRINE. If one is seeking verifiable facts given in chronological order that is simple to digest and retain, look elsewhere. For Levi is speaking of history in relation to his own private researches, to which he had dedicated his life since entering the priesthood in the Roman Catholic Church at the age of twelve. His is also a history of magic with literary antecedents; to the likes of Aurthur Rimbaud for instance, this work of Levi/Constant's was a veritable bible, whose symbolism permeates works such as &quot;A Season In Hell&quot; to a deliriant degree. There is perhaps not one writer or Artist regardless of medium between the years 1860-1930 who was not at least familiar with Levi/Constant; this fact extends from his own friends, such as Balzac, de Nerval, Victor Hugo, Dumas- to Breton, Crowley, Bataille, Meyrink, Henry Miller and innumerable others! The names cover from Western to Eastern Europe, as well as North America; and it is Levi who established what we define, in its cultural sense, as &quot;Occultism&quot; today. It is also largely because of his pioneering Occult works that the &quot;19th century Occult Revival&quot; merged with the Arts of the day, giving birth to the idea of &quot;Art as Religion, &amp; the Artist as Priest/magician&quot;. It was in the Occult that the Artist(spelled for the 1st time with a capital)found a definition of his own position, and most granted the highest respect and admiration to the Rabelaisian personage of Alphonse Louis Constant, which is Levi's real name. Aleister Crowley's lifework was centered around Eliphas's dream of a reconciliation between the arts of science &amp; religion, for which he laboured and set down all that was required in his Occult as well as religious and revolutionary tomes, comprising together at least 20 works. The essential question in Levi's History Of Magic is NOT the accuracy of his scholarly objectivity, but his system's origins, structure, goals, and the benefits it bestows and light shined upon the Occultist's understanding of Magic in relation to the history of magic; that Levi's historical system differs from other interpretations is due to the fact that he was not so much interested in the historical facts as much as how the history and the knowledge it produced could benefit the modern-day Occultist operating in the world today. In this respect the text is given over to interpretation of all variety of magical personages, events, accomplishments, inventions, and works. Also essential to know is that it is thanks to the genius of the Philosopher/mathmetician Hoene Wronski and his CaBalistic insights that Levi gleaned much in his Philosophical approach. One may benefit also by disregarding any facts pseudo-scholar Waite provides on Constant's background as he had at the time of writing his prefaces' not one single work in regards to the life of Levi; his critical insights however are as valid as any, and for all his seeming hostility he in reality is truly, next to Crowley, perhaps Levi's biggest fan! waite is also to be commended for providing the bibliographical sources for those seeking &quot;established facts&quot;( which merely means some few people agree upon what they themselves only know from yet another source of questionable reliability) It is quite evident from a philosophical standpoint that the Occultist's rewards reaped from their experience outweighs in practical value what is the scholar's bane regardless of any amount of scholarly exactitude. In this sense, as much as in the exquisitely-toned bardic prose of Levi, he has created a historical work that will outlast innumerable others, standing as it does on the merits of great literature as well as being universally regarded as a pioneering classic of Occultism.	2001-07-15
US	44842080	RLO4PKHVNTPTK	0312145314	413136101	Subterranean Kerouac: The Hidden Life of Jack Kerouac	Books	5	13	23	N	N	The Dark Side  of The Beat Generation	For the first time a realistic biography has finally been written concentrating on and revealing in part THE DARK TRUTH ABOUT THE BEAT GENERATION. Ellis Amburn's biography is one of the first to ADMIT in any \\"official\\" capacity, and show through the biographical medium of Jack Kerouac, the simple undeniable fact that the Beat Generation is, like most rebellious movements comprised of the young, the unaccepted, the lost, misplaced, unacknowledged, leaderless, angry, artistic, philosophical, experimental, et.al---largely consumed by dark, forbidden ( by society) impulses and passions too powerful to deny and are often obsessed and fascinated by them too much NOT to explore....      It is Kerouac's dream that people want, not the truth of his life; even the numerous biographies have but scratched \\"the beat surface\\", somehow writing their way around the truth as if it were a reality whose skirts they were too terrified to lift, as a veil guarding from sore eyes what is not a handsome leg! Not so with Ellis Amburn's subterranean Kerouac!      Amburn was Kerouac's editor the last decade of Kerouac's life.... He came into Kerouac's career, fittingly, about the time of \\"Big Sur\\", in which K, admits for the first time on record to his Angel that he is  going absolutely crazy in the horrific manner of narcotica... K.'s literary skills of graphic description here do not tantalize, but horrify! This is the book that alienated Kerouac's own audience, and Amburn coming on the scene from here onwards is qualified to paint the portrait of Kerouac in a realistic manner worthy of Soviet Realist Literature, who is writing from personal memoir as well as from biographical investigation. Of course all Amburn writes is verified, one can investigate matters thoroughly for oneself thanks to concise bibliographical notated sources, including Kerouac's own \\"sex-lists\\", and the information it contains is valid only because, unlike the multitude of biographies out there, it's sources ARE cited....  Kerouac struggled all his life, and the fact that he eulogizes his youth in way that produced the most Romantic literature of his generation cannot ever completely exorcise his roots in the black soil of a poor French-Canadian family of working class origins, replete with all the stigmata of the hell it is to be poor, with an alcoholic, unemployed gambler for a father and repressed, clinging, religious old-world peasant for a mother, and a dutiful son of deep inborn sorrows, \\"Ti Jean\\", who loves them at the same time they all lovingly murder one another with smiles on their faces...you know the story, writ in high Romanticism, if you've read his works, which of no writer can I recommend more than Kerouac that you read his own works first before consulting ANY biograpical tomes as Kerouac wrote his own autobiography the way Twain said \\"noone is more prepared to write about your life than you are\\" and if you want to learn about Kerouac's spirit written straight from the heart consult his works! If you want the gut-level truth about his exterior life I recommend this one. Out of them all, however, if you don't want to be enlightened as to the truth of Kerouac's life,and believe me many do NOT, then do NOT read Amburn's biography. Even though much of what Amburn writes is mentioned in the previous what?-20?-biographies,it is yet glossed over in a deceptive manner allowing the delusion and the propoganda to continue flourishing and sellsellselling everything from romantic pants to cigarettes. On a deeper level, Amburn is championing Kerouac by writing the TRUTH of his exterior life as it can only raise Kerouac's spirit that much higher exposing as it does the true grit and stamina NOT to suicide himself the easy way, but to create immortal literature in which people will find the Solace and COMPANIONSHIP Kerouac wrote for! Amburn's Subterranean Kerouac is beyond the petty bickerings of what exactly went on at some party in the village 50 years ago, who ahhumped whoso immensely they had to be resuscitated...that stuff is all fine-n-dandy but it does NOT get to the heart of the matter that is Kerouacs'!      I suspected such a biography as this would upset the lies people want so much to believe, myself included, and they are anybody but Kerouac's lies; but true romanticism is not a flight from reason but a journey towards the ultimate self, and if such a book can upset so many innumerable critics, it's a sign beckoning: \\"There is something this book did to me that is really troubling to me!\\" and people rarely get upset by lies if they truly have no significant connotation, let those who admonish and want to kill the messenger bearing bad news go back to their idle worshipping of a false idol, and believe me, it is NOT Kerouac that is false in any way, it is largely the media who has so warped the true vision these writers had, but also those who would not find out the truth for themselves, even when they drink from the very source, that metaphysical horror of existence that Kerouac with sheer courage stands under the gaze of and stares back, constantly driving himself onwards \\"on the road\\" to get to the very heart of the matter, as if it were a very definitely real place somewhere within the confines of an \\"America!\\".     Like any good biography, and there are thruths in each one not to be gleaned from any other, there is rarely any who don't break-down and cry their hearts out at the end of the life of Jack Kerouac. Many, rightly-so have said that to American Artists as well as the average reader, it is akin to the death of JFK for those who hold him close to their heart, a national tragedy. Disarming however is the real tragedy concerning Kerouac was the wretched manner in which he was treated while alive. The brutality of the establishment and the cruelty of mean spirited closed-minded people Kerouac fought against by using beautiful words, in the business of healing words...in the way he is used and marketed today still makes him very much so a 20th century American martyr. Amburn's biography is a portrait of Kerouac's inner-life in the tortured yet beautiful stylizations of German Expressionism. Kerouac fans are lucky, and some doomed, to have it. Regardless, the truth is now definately out there.	2001-07-09
US	44842080	R3O6ZZ3TPTGB9E	1585671614	803824373	The Process	Books	5	17	21	N	N	The Process of Making Things Happen.	Wherein of antres vast and deserts idle, Rough quarries, rocks and hills whose heads touch heaven, It was my hint to speak, such was the process...                                     -Shakespeare.<br />This quote (partial) above is by way of Gysin's introduction to THE PROCESS---like all Gysin's works, greatly underrated, unacknowledged, and ignored, perhaps because of their metaphysical Occult (&quot;hidden and rejected knowledge&quot;) origins periously perched as they are on the edge of an exquisitely unique literary absurdity difficult to comprehend without submitting to detailed, in-depth investigation. In other words, he deceptively appears an only half-sincere, sarcastic author writing pulp aimed at comic entertainment alone, when in fact his works (entire) upon further investigation reveal profound esoteric depths much like a Franz Kafka or Philip K. Dick. For a long while I have hoped for what will really be a first time proper evaluation of his masterful works; I can think of no author more deserving of a much-needed critical biography, and probably many will soon be produced.  Of the brilliant novel THE PROCESS: The protagonist is Gysin himself, who appears in different colored skin due to the fact Brion suffered from what he called: &quot;bad packaging!&quot; It takes a lifetime to cross the desert and a childhood to do so at its narrowest point, explains one of the many mystical charcaters inhabiting the novel, whose names, like the lady &quot;MAYA&quot; ( literally sanskrit for &quot;illusion&quot;) oftentimes reveal their signifigance. Gysin knew the sahara well, spending a good deal of his life in it, centered around expatriate Tangiers, where he owned and operated a resturant well reputed called &quot;The 1001 Nights&quot;. The house musicians were none other than THE MASTER MUSICIANS OF JAJOUKA, whom Brion discovered in the &quot;land of the little people&quot; tucked far into the hills, and whom WSB called a &quot;2000year old rock-n-roll band!&quot; The 1001 Nights closed down directly due, Gysin feels (with firm evidence/proof) of Black Magic of a typically North African cursive. <br />    Celebrated in THE PROCESS in a masterful narrative sequence is the yearly Ritual celebration involving the Great God Pan in the form of a man placed inside the actual skin of a recently sacraficed goat, who chases the Moroccan women about in a rite dating back to antiquity recalling the bacchanalia and Dionysian Rites and all Pagan fertility rites, still practised yearly with great festivity in Morocco.<br />    The novel is, as WSB said of his own work, and's wholly applicable also to Gysin's ( whose influence and sway over WSB is immense, as WSB enthusiastically acknowledges)one where: &quot;EVERY LINE IS AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL FACT AND EVERY LINE IS BULLS**T!&quot;  &quot;WRITING IS SUCCESSFUL WHEN IT MAKES THINGS HAPPEN!&quot;---According to both Brion Gysin and William Seward Burroughs, this is the The supreme definition of &quot;successful writing&quot; as well as of &quot;Magick&quot;. THE PROCESS, Brion Gysin's novel published first in 1969 was long involved in the &quot;great work&quot; of &quot;writing itself&quot;; for according to Gysin it's: A NOVEL IN THE PROCESS OF WRITING AND READING ITSELF! To a miraculous degree this cannot be properly communicated except by reading the novel yourself, which most of its readers agree they have done so several times; WSBurroughs rightly states besides being an esoteric masterpiece it is also &quot;first-class entertainment&quot;, and like all Gysin's completely original works is absolutely hilarious! Noone, and I mean noone writes like he does, nor paints---for he was an early practitioner of surrealist techniques developed by Max Ernst, and Gysin exhibited his works with the surrealists, but was kicked out by Breton at his first exhibition, no doubt due more to his eccentric personality than to his artistic stylizations...he would go on to establish his own unique painterlystyle consisting of calligraphical overlain symbols resembling magical sigils and Chinese characters placed in grids reminiscent of the likewise magical origins found in the &quot;Sacred Magic of Abra-Melin The Mage&quot; which so influenced other Artists and Mages like Crowley and Mathers and Pessoa. And Like his painting, Gysin's literary origins likewise have their genesis and inspiration in Occultism, so permeating Gysin's life as to be essential in any contemplation aimed at an understanding of his works and life. His experiments and investigations are now legendary, especially those taken place at the Beat Hotel in Paris circa 1960 with Burroughs, Norse, Corso, sommerville, and a host of others where Gysin Established a quite scientific system for all literary history to applaude as the &quot;Cut-Up technique&quot;, coined by WSBurroughs.<br />     Brion Gysin will show you how THE PROCESS works, in the very process of &quot;MAKING IT HAPPEN&quot;! Such a magical feat before your very eyes without recourse to simply deeming such astounding miracles an &quot;illusion&quot; will if nothing else boggle your mind a good long while, and make you question the very fabric of the absolutely magical universe we live in. For the literary thrill-seeker as much as the mystically-minded, for the occult practitioner as for the philosophical scholar, THE PROCESS is one that is already a classic, and Gysin's works I feel are destined to outlive many other more famous works of its time; their endurance is miraculous in itself and they are essentially timeless. Aleister Crowley was correct in delineating a classic as defined by its ability to adapt and survive, and is in a sense: &quot;a living being&quot;. THE PROCESS shows how such phenonema operate, as well as how it can also be, as everything is, Manipulated---whether to the writer's or the occultist's advantage; and regardless whether such things are called &quot;Black Magick&quot; or &quot;Literature&quot; is besides thepoint. Gysin often makes his point with a joke at humanity's expense, and it should be borne in mind that he is a great misanthrope; and as for his reputed misongyny goes, he truly believed women were a biological mistake---the irony is that a good many of his closest friend were women! <br />     Brion Gysin is an enigma representative of NO race, religion, color, or creed. He truly is one of the Originals of the human species!	2001-07-09
US	44842080	R2IPPAQW36HPLR	0810111330	444380524	Insatiability	Books	5	16	19	N	N	THE FEASTINGs OF THE INSATIABLEs	INSATIABILITY, a futuristic, expressionistic, demonomaniacal novel of extremes, records beneath an overwhelming avalanche of thrilling philosophical debate, the tortured comings-of-age of NOT just a young man beautifully blooming into bonafide manhood,( via initiatory sexual debauch, heady doses of ritual drug-use, and an above average nihilism )but charts in the midst of its explorations the becomings of an exemplary monstrous candidate capable of being a leader of men, yet equably capable of being an insane nobody, all the while constantly risking absurdity, and far be it from me to assault the possibilities of giving away the end of such a great work to those it will hold captive  for its own. More than any novel (which its author,&quot;WITKACY&quot;, has dubbed a &quot;body-bag&quot; he correspondingly fits the reader into with subtle skill) INSATIABILITY affected me to an alarming degree and, in a very definite sense has shaped the monstrous person I have become over the course of the past 10 years. Had I been granted foreknowledge the effect such a rare work of art would have had on me I cannot say with imputiny I'd have so willingly and Insatiably devoured it,(tearing myself out of the confines of the body-bag) as I have done so repeatedly since that first miraculous time I gave up my Literary virginity to its frightening wiles. And I am sure I will return to that accursed book forever with the dedication of a crushed and powerlessly fascinated lover for the rest of my life, even under the futile threat of adultery, so well has it taught me the INSATIABILITY of the human condition.<br />     Let this confessionary review stand as a warning to young influential readers and as a testament to the undeniability of this novels strange powers which I've no doubt will work its fascinations on seekers of great and experimental literary works for centuries to come. How such an immense secret of a work as profound as Witkiewicz's INSATIABILITY has held its breath for so long can only give multiple births to conspiracy theories. When this novel breaks its silence it will be as if a ravenous serial-killer were loosed in your hometown.<br />     I cannot recommend a greater novel in all literary history, of which I am an dedicated adventurous servitor; yet I do so warily, all too well aware of the repurcussions that may be heaped upon me for abandoning moral principles in spreading out the darkness so many have actually thought was the light.	2001-06-10
US	44842080	R2NXT0GEZ7K26V	1569249601	326513327	Sky: Memoirs (European Sources)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	levitation &amp; what it is to pick your teeth w/hummingbirds	Sky! memoirs---is part IV of Blaise Cendrars lyrical autobiography in which he vents his fascinations with the mystic art of levitation mixing in with his beatific poetic-prose the accounts of various case accounts, mostly centuries old, of some remarkable levitators.  It opens with his carting some several hundred caged birds back to france from his miraculous travels gathering such colorful specimens armed with butterfly nets and dreams to give as a gift to a special little girl.  Cendrars then goes into the details of what it is to fly, as humankind has striven to reach the skies from time immemorial. It is the latter half of the book that Cendrars unleashes his magic as opposed and/or complimentary to the first halfs mystic trends. And what magic does he make! Writing is compared with mining subterranean caverns, as a miner descends unto the abyss armed not only with the essentials of graveyard diggers but with a bird on his shoulder as miners use to do for caution regarding the dangerous and sometimes poisonous air within the earth's crust; if it reaches intolerable levels the little bird will quietly, without complaint, suffocate first. As the air down below is vaporous and the writer's descent: &quot;visiting the secret interiors of the Earth to discover the philosopher's stone&quot;= the formula of V.I.T.R.I.O.L. expounded by the alchemists in quest of the absolute. Cendrars previous three volumes, along with this one are extremely difficult to find, and it is a literary crime and testament that only a very few peole today have any true idea of the magical possibilities inherent in literature. As &quot;Writing is successful only when it makes things happen&quot;; and the prose of Blaise Cendrars, the one-armed ww1 veteran of modernism, replete always with a thick russian cigarette burning under squinted eyes, is a high ranking underground leader in the linguiststic legions who storms the sky in this last book of memoirs, riddling the air with verbiage and ammunition and followed by squadrons of eagles and falcons and hawks and when he sleeps floats approximately 3 inches off the ground for he is a writer of holy things worthy of the most sumptuous religious texts. One is transported while reading Sky Memoirs to a state not unlike that of the phenonemon of levitation, in which one's thoughts tend to hover, in a state of suspended animation and remains so until Cendrars decides to set you down upon a soft pillow, that you may truly take flight in the similitude of dreams.	2001-06-06
US	44842080	R328Q1LMBP85EJ	0876855125	539353259	The Apes of God	Books	5	49	55	N	N	the Planet of the Apes of God	Wyndham Lewis's ( founder of VORTICISM= the only British Avant-Garde movement of the 20th century)Apes of God is a vicious satire exposing the posture and posuers of the art world then (circa 1920's London/Paris/New York et.al.)and's wholly applicable before and aft as all areas not just the arts are riddled through with scavengery: shams and fakers lusting after popularity, getting on their knees in curtsies and bows before their corrupt Gods whom they shamelessly ape (ie.copy,mimick)in the devout worship of finance and social prestige; for which they sacrifice and abuse the very name of ART, using it only to profit greedy wiles and have no concern whatever as regards beauty or the bettering of humankind, much less the quest for absolute knowledge and solutions to humankinds varied cosmic dilemmas. The apes practice strictly black magic, a voodoo of the dollar whence they make idiot dolls of both the public, and their brethen, and mock the genuine bohemia by fostering appearances, such as upper middle-class citizens dressing in expensive outfits to look poor---the absurdity of the accepted norm really does summons an image of apes wearing clothes to fit in with humans!  As comparison is legit and somewhat inevitable, Lewis' satire exceeds in both depth and vituperation that of George Orwell,and in its lyrical balled is more beautiful than Jonathan Swifts'. Lewis is of that rare species of sufficient force to prosper and forge single-handedly a one man advanced guard, as his graphic works equal in everyway and exist on a perfect par with his literary works; he was also, besides brilliant novelist, satirist, and painter who by many is said to best Picasso,he was a profound philosopher, an essayist of biting wit, a rare playwright and poet who wrote &quot;An Enemy Of The Stars&quot; - a futurist-fuelled expressionistic masterpeice published in one of several of his literary journasls' as a fearless, undaunted and unswayable critic he established himself in the guise he took in all his eclectic works: THE ENEMY! In which sense his condemnation was itself a form of praise, testifying to the fact he considered it worthy of his towering abuses. His works, published extensively by Black Sparrow Press, numbers perhaps 50 titles, many of them numbering well over half a thousand pages apeice; he even wrote, as his last major work a spiritual science-fiction trilogy which I pray will be published in the near future...Lastly, Wyndham Lewis unlike his contemporaries, including those like Pound and Eliot who champion his works, has over time wholly retained all the vigour initially constructed round that swirling vortex he single-handedly created, a veritable tower of Babel of achievments which will stand for centuries to come as one of the great wonders of the world of Art; and The Apes Of God, though some claim to be an elephant,ghostly white with wide red eyes, still romps through the literary jungles, levelling with terrifying stomping power all in its way, and a trailing desolation in its wake. His Apes Of God are still pounding their chests, all claiming to reign sole and supreme king of the jungle, yet scatter like field-mice at the approaching tank of a man that is Wyndham Lewis, perhaps the only artist left from his generation or this one that's capable of killing every last one of them who would otherwise take over the planet. I am, and remain, grateful some select few still can revel in his handsomely republished works such as this missive, thanks to undaunted publishers such as John Martin at Black Sparrow, dedicated to the works they print, which is a rare enough occurence these days.	2001-06-06
US	44842080	R15Z9P68PEMTDW	0895264080	990708954	The Secret Life of Bill Clinton: The Unreported Stories	Books	1	9	55	N	N	another conspracy rag by a newspaper skeptic	Evans-pritchard's political criticism is even worse than his anthropological works, which is the sole reason I even came across this typical hatchet job. I find it telling such ungentlemanly prudes steer clear of focusing upon English politics, which, God save the queen, makes America look like sentimental children as far as horrendous historical crimes go, not to mention the sexual deviancy of the royal court's insatiable appetites; and it's obvious oxford would suffer greatly from any efforts of evans-pitchfork pointed at her Royal privates. Clinton of course, as all presidents since Korean war times is merely a spokesman, a televised personality and media scapegoat (EXCEPT GEORGE BUSH SR.) and his exploits are child's play in comparison with his myriad bosses, which Evans-pritchard barely mentions. All in all, the drug scene in Arkansas is sadly lacking in quality and quantity, and here credit must be given to this books compiler for researching such a barren issue.	2001-06-06
US	44842080	R2BJ0A6XJ72FKS	0875483070	152117921	The History of the Devil and the Idea of Evil: From the Earliest Times to the Present Day (Open Court paperback)	Books	5	25	32	N	N	a demonological classic and scholarly opus	Paul Carus's classic treatise, writ and published to great occult acclaim circa 1900, remains a much deserved classic; 350 illustrations carefully chosen alone warrant applause, but it is his highly focused text that deserves scholars' attentions and demands republication. Foremost of importance for current day readers is the extent to which the work delves far beyond the pulpish, tho non-fictive, profit-orientated goals of the majority of the Devil's historians making a buck and a name out there today (Jeffrey B. Russell, whose depictions of the late eliphas Levi as a mere flop Satanist---of which as a devout Catholic Abbe' he was strictly railing against the entirety of his miraculous life---exemplifies such). None such opinionations are within carus's exemplar work. Crucial to this review is coneying the standard of success he reaches in establishing his goal of a thorough, precise and organized historiography mapping and dilineating the crucial developments and differences amidst the varied beliefs and ideas concerning evil and its dominions and servitors, on a level worldwide in conception. Cultural relativity is and remains established throughout; no opinions are broached to instead focus strictly upon orientating the reader with The History Of The Devil And The Idea Of Evil ( the book's subtitle) with little sensationalism besides the already stranger than fiction truth of the matter.<br />     As a Romantic debauchee lusting for poetic description with the kind of wit that bites its object of desire in the middle of the back, my only complaint of such a work as Carus's lies here. Those searching for the blasphemous variety need not turn to necromancy to evoke such animated literature as some precious few remain miraculously in print ( Eliphas Levi, Montague Summers,and Grillot de Givry, respectively, all relative contemporaries of Carus---1860, 1926 &amp; 1931---serve excellent examples). Carus however was unconcerned with novelistic delights and concentrated upon discovering underlying formations of principles and morality within a cultural context; his establishing of historical factual sources, verifiable and in most cases evident, posits him upon a high mount of scholarly regard in the lands of comparative religions.	2001-06-01
US	44842080	R9D0SHHF5BO88	0517150328	127375295	History of Magic and the Occult	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a bibliophiliac wedding of the SURREALIST &amp; the OCCULTIST	Kurt Seligmann, Surrealist artist par excellence, admitted  &amp; unashamed bibliophile, has ravaged his occult library in a miraculous marriage giving birth to this classic historical account of Magic and Occultism; entirely written for the proverbial 'man about the street', and a very cosmic avenue is here tread in an admireable chronological ordering of the various mystical houses. Addressing all the various occult(semantic definition of &quot;hidden &amp; rejected knowledge&quot;) routes via the shortcut of this Art Historian's scholarly mind, as a whole this work is one of the best and most easily approachable &quot;magic histories&quot; for those who have no previous knowledge concerning occultism except an undeniable interest and fascination with the mysterious and the spiritual. <br />     Kurt Seligmann is darkly fascinated and explores endlessly the multitude of historic beliefs concerning the study of the nature of evil... such as black magic, necromancy, Elizabethian era conjurers and their Enochian magic,primitive rites, evocations of the Cultus Satanus, Goetia Demonomania, et.al....as an example, early on he discusses Chaldean phliosophies in which: &quot;Evil was born from God's disturbing thoughts&quot;...I have long wondered if the proposed thoughts had to do specifically with humanity?...and this book will surely set the fire or fan the sulphurous flames of those burning to know more about all things occult.<br />      The book primarily deals with Western Esoteric Traditions, which, being a westerner, appeals to my insatiable explorative appetite in studying and discovering the divinity of humankind and the accorded propensity &amp; potentials of individual spiritual progress through Magick and the strengthening of divine will ; in comparison with more Eastern idealogies concerned with mystical enlightenment and the abolishing of the ego to attain Nirvana.<br />     In summation, Kurt Seligmann, as one of the last efforts of his exemplary artisticjourney throughout the early 20th century avant-garde, has given the world a completely unbiased in-depth world history from a magical perspective, a genuine labor of love which will always retain its intimately artistic personality in contrast to the strict scholarly treatise of the newspaper skeptic variety; and although there are better, more developed and intrigueing accounts out there, none are at the moment so readily available and economic, nor so expressive, or conclusively compact as this. Finally, the book has over a hundred and fifty illustrations from alchemical treatise and magical grimoires which compliment his descriptive writing style.<br />     It is besides all this, another exclamation point punctuating the Surrealist movement.       surrealyours, an occultist.	2001-05-06
US	44842080	RRXY8OW561LVS	0517150328	127375295	History of Magic and the Occult	Books	5	17	18	N	N	a bibliophiliac wedding of the SURREALIST &amp; the OCCULTIST	Kurt Seligmann, Surrealist artist par excellence, admitted  &amp; unashamed bibliophile, has ravaged his occult library in a miraculous marriage giving birth to this classic historical account of Magic and Occultism; entirely written for the proverbial 'man about the street', and a very cosmic avenue is here tread in an admireable chronological ordering of the various mystical houses. Addressing all the various occult(semantic definition of &quot;hidden &amp; rejected knowledge&quot;) routes via the shortcut of this Art Historian's scholarly mind, as a whole this work is one of the best and most easily approachable &quot;magic histories&quot; for those who have no previous knowledge concerning occultism except an undeniable interest and fascination with the mysterious and the spiritual. <br />     Kurt Seligmann is darkly fascinated and explores endlessly the multitude of historic beliefs concerning the study of the nature of evil... such as black magic, necromancy, Elizabethian era conjurers and their Enochian magic,primitive rites, evocations of the Cultus Satanus, Goetia Demonomania, et.al....as an example, early on he discusses Chaldean phliosophies in which: &quot;Evil was born from God's disturbing thoughts&quot;...I have long wondered if the proposed thoughts had to do specifically with humanity?...and this book will surely set the fire or fan the sulphurous flames of those burning to know more about all things occult.<br />      The book primarily deals with Western Esoteric Traditions, which, being a westerner, appeals to my insatiable explorative appetite in studying and discovering the divinity of humankind and the accorded propensity &amp; potentials of individual spiritual progress through Magick and the strengthening of divine will ; in comparison with more Eastern idealogies concerned with mystical enlightenment and the abolishing of the ego to attain Nirvana.<br />     In summation, Kurt Seligmann, as one of the last efforts of his exemplary artisticjourney throughout the early 20th century avant-garde, has given the world a completely unbiased in-depth world history from a magical perspective, a genuine labor of love which will always retain its intimately artistic personality in contrast to the strict scholarly treatise of the newspaper skeptic variety; and although there are better, more developed and intrigueing accounts out there, none are at the moment so readily available and economic, nor so expressive, or conclusively compact as this. Finally, the book has over a hundred and fifty illustrations from alchemical treatise and magical grimoires which compliment his descriptive writing style.<br />     It is besides all this, another exclamation point puncuating the Surrealist movement.       surrealyours, an occultist.	2001-05-06
US	44842080	R30MMOCFK39ZT1	0802133142	441618600	Cain's Book	Books	5	0	1	N	N	the-HERO-IN-side-of-us-all	As a matter of serious concern regards this rare jewel in the lotus THIS BOOK BEARS NO COMPARISON WITH W.S.BURROUGH&quot;S &quot;JUNKY&quot; which in WSB's words is merely an attempt at hard-boiled detective work by an addict; not (!) a serious literary work aiming at anything besides getting down on paper the quite dull exoteric truth about what is perhaps the hardest job in a world of unmanagable professional addictions being that narcotic hell of withdrawal and the constant 24 hour a day big business of NARCOTICS, best summed up as &quot;the high-cost of low-life living&quot; WSB was lucky enough to be able to partially support his ape-size habit via an inheritance...ALL of WSB's other works(besides &quot;Queer&quot;) ruthlessly explore and expose the world run rampant by CONTROL, with NARCOTIC ADDICTION as metaphor for all planetary existence...which is more along the tracks of Cosmonaut ALEXANDER TROCCHI intentions (and success), who I predict will one day like WSB become a more public legend, which his miraculous and exemplary life and works are worthy of...his metaphysical pornographic erotica is the stuff of such legends already (see White Thighs, Young Adam, Thongs) the blood of which is rushing to the center of literary underground stardom making hard the various body parts of so many seekers after the darker side of beat exploration...'The Beat Generation&quot; was once summed up by themselves as &quot;The ability of standing on a streetcorner in any foriegn city in the world and being able to score in a relatively short amount of time&quot;...Alex Trocchi was such a man and it is in this sense along with the people he knew that he bears relation to beat objectives (the objectives of critics, not the worldwide artisians themselves) Trocchi was a world phenonemon, carousing the globe always artistic and ever active...he is a supreme example of one whose life WAS their art, and if there is any blame laid against him for being a junky for the greater part of his existence then I merely refer those people to the couple hundred thousand or so heroin addicts of the terrestial globe and ask them to account for what art they have produced to match in quality (not quantity) what Trocchi has done with just Cain's Book alone (with &quot;ABLE&quot; beaten to a pulp fiction novel decaying in some distant outhouse being put to use in its ultimate function) I've re-read the novel several times and found myself under its influence, literally tasting the cyanide-like flavor explode in my mouth as when he describes how junkies love to watch others get high by the almost nauseous wave when the eyes slit and the jaw drops to the floor and they say &quot;hit&quot; (given of course they have theirs marked out by two little x's already positioned in pupils the size of a matchtips)...the books descriptions of heroin's gripping obsessive way of life in no way sum up this masterpiece of novel narcotica literature; rare feats of prose are planted like explosives all over the text and the sense of people and place is overwhelming in it's strict realist description of very sober prose revealing more than just poetics, but Trocchi's philosophy itself inside the narrative...I think Trocchi's greatest gift is his utter SINCERITY---which is the first judgement to be made of so intimate a subject as a man's sufferings in the Dostoevskian underground arena Trocchi inhabited the planet over...It is in a very great and noble tradition Trocchi participates in, literary references abounding throughout; the foremost in my mind being the comparison with Kafka's &quot;Burrow&quot;, the relation of such a secret underground way of life dictated by fear, in this case fear of running out of dope primarily, along with all human fear, including the &quot;lack for nothing&quot; of existential hells...As regards Trocchi's false qualifications concerning fame, suffice it to say he was chums with Beckett, Burroughs,Ginsberg,everybody associated with the Olympia Press===champion pioneer publishers of Naked Lunch, Tropic of Cancer, on and on goes the list like some supreme stripper teasing the pant(ies)s off the literary establishment---just read the quotes on back of the book and you will get an idea of how influential Cain's Book has been in the life and works of all variety of literary genius, the famous among the famous, and rightly-so, as one cannot champion such rare integrity in a master enough. Once you've gotten your literary fix with this one find an edition of &quot;Invisible Insurrection of a Million Minds&quot; for more, as well as &quot;Alexander Trocchi: The Makings Of A Monster&quot; which is a biography of his exemplary existence. Like Burroughs, Artaud, Crowley, Baudelaire, Witkacy, Alex Trocchi's writing on drugs in reference to his autobiographically lived life and subsequent works, are famous not just amongst artists but are devoured by addicts as well, and in some cases, both. Such was the man that he is still getting total strangers HIGH worldwide.s===champion pioneer publishers of Naked Lunch, Tropic of Cancer, on and on goes the list like some supreme stripper teasing the pant(ies)s off the literary establishment---just read the quotes on back of the book and you will get an idea of how influential Cain's Book has been in the life and works of all variety of literary genius, the famous among the famous, and rightly-so, as one cannot champion such rare integrity in a master enough. Once you've gotten your literary fix with this one find an edition of &quot;Invisible Insurrection of a Million Minds&quot; for more, as well as &quot;Alexander Trocchi: The Makings Of A Monster&quot; which is a biography of his exemplary existence. Like Burroughs, Artaud, Crowley, Baudelaire, Witkacy, Alex Trocchi's writing on drugs in reference to his autobiographically lived life and subsequent works, are famous not just amongst artists but are devoured by addicts as well, and in some cases, both. Such was the man that he is still getting total strangers HIGH worldwide.	2001-04-27
US	44842080	RKV70BGFU5W1R	0876855524	971391426	The Complete Wild Body	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wyndham Lewis exposes the inferior religions	THE COMPLETE WILD BODY is the first in a long list, republished by Black sparrow Press, of exemplary essential modernistic landmarks on the road of excessive self-discovery by THE ENEMY, Wyndham Lewis his-self. To give you an inkling of the kind of bombastic verbiage that riddles this prose like so many death-traps:             &quot;To introduce my puppets, and the Wild Body, the generic puppet of all, I must project a fanciful wandering figure to be the showman to whom the antics and solemn gambols of these wild children are to be a source of strange delight.&quot;<br />     The literary Lion here roars loudly somewhat unbecoming of English gentlemanry, which is exactly the vorticist point right in the center of this bull's eye Wyndham Lewis slays exactly all we ever thought refined and full of polite mannerisms in modern society. &quot;tyros&quot; accompany on canvas these stories of his, for Wyndham Lewis is one of the greatest painters of modernism as well as author, being the founder of VORTICISM, the only avant-garde movement of 20th century Britain; likewise he influenced and intellectually ruled and/or fascinated Pound, Eliot, Joyce, Stein,et.al.etc., and a slew of lesser-known (unjustifiably) Artists circa (roughly) the turn of the century to the dropping of the atom bomb. His Art like his life was lived under the persona of the enemy and his condemnation was indeed high praise in that he deemed whomever worthy of his intellectual onslaught. His graphic works brilliantly illustrate the volume and compliment the tales that smack of a science-fictive otherworldliness but are entirely realistic, to the extensive degree as to be super- realism (surrealism); especially in consideration that all the characters are mere auotmatons executing their behaviour patterns as if ordered to do so by some outside force of cosmic porportions. Not to say they are dull and predictable, not in any absolute sense; Ker-Orr is our adventuer, a &quot;soldier of humour&quot; in a very pataphysical sense, whose definition is the &quot;science of imaginary solutions&quot;. Conjured up as by tricks is an entire situational reality where the narrator is faced with human mimickery and acts, deified with a strict militant stance,according to a system of beliefs prescribed by &quot;inferior religions&quot;. Lewis rewrote/re-worked the stories twenty years plus later and tells us all he did in these pioneering myths he's still exhausting philosophically. The stories are replete with all the enthusiasm of a young artist forgeing new worlds in a time of intense innovation, and of all his myriad works, this book is my and many others favorite; I consider it one of the ten greatest books- among 50 plus boxes -I own. I would be-deck it with the constellations entire, not just five dim suns, which is not enough illuminism to shed lite on the innumerable profoundities barely contained herein.	2001-04-25
US	44842080	R2W4GQG2PLZ6T	087685661X	77728931	Selected Poems: 1958-1984	Books	5	9	16	N	N	the secret BEAT POET best kept secret like a true fix	John Wieners' the authentic thing,surpassing all art-historic poetic requirement he's an insider from that ruthlessly over-publicized &quot;BEAT&quot; scene,&quot;famous among the famous&quot; if you will...He's an insider in the sense that he occupies the inside of an anonymous hotel like a religous retreat, inside his own sympathetic head where alls recorded in a private diarie, inside a lyrical quest for the heartbroken line eradicating everything...he's in the business of healing words: a modern-day Rilke with the gorgeous lyrical gift imparted on every page. One imagines his words coming from sitting on the edge of the bed like sitting at the edge of the world waiting for it all to painlessly end with the formality of an unacknowledged graceful bow. John Wieners knows the-HERO-IN-side-of-us-all; having suffered drugs:the divorce from societal companionship, the physicality of that narcotic hell,all for that invioable annihilating peace becoming of an unattainable suicide where forgivness reigns supreme. He knows the tortured homosexual shared-secret hell of keeping the forbidden joy hidden...as well as the erotic's supremacy of form and all's deposited in his pages in exquisite scripture. Reading his poems is comparable to getting high in a public restroom: consider it an indulgence in secret vice your closest friends can only guess at by the disturbed glint &amp; gloss over your eyes. Going out in public is never the same after reading him, nor will the beat generation ever be the same for you again once you've found his work; a wholly unimaginable dimension of beatitude poetics will open your eyes, mind and legs to a vast new range of experience previously ignored by public and scholars alike. I do not consider it a startling sin he's un-recognized, un-acknowledged, and un-appreaciated, if anything it has merely made him stronger and deemed all his admirer's: initiates, and all those poets schooled by him: adepts. One more thing, besides the obvious study ofevil he has accomplished in his verses lies all earthly and otherwordly heavens' astounding psalms. If you do not already become ecstatic when under the influence of poetry this will surely make you drunk, and if it's your first time, welcome;and if you don't heed the warnings of the fanatic,then for posterity's sake at least let me say : There is a hero-in-side-of-us-all...	2001-04-19
