US	44867198	R2JMG279IBM11K	1570625840	514012884	A Master Course in Feng-Shui: An In-Depth Program for Learning to Choose, Design, and Enhance the Spaces Where We Live and Work	Books	2	64	80	N	N	Too complicated to be of any use for most people	I own have been using \\"Black Hat\\" feng shui for the past year and half. Now that we are planning to move to a new place, I decided to look into it more in depth, especially since doing some research I found out that Black Hat feng shui is poo-pooed by many feng shui practitioners as an alter-ised and westernized  form of feng shui that's really too far from the original to work.<br /><br />Browsing and researching, I came up with a few titles that were highly recommended. I ended up getting this one because it seemed like the most complete.<br /><br />OMG, was that ever a mistake. There is so much involved between calculations, cartography and so on that the only way to have a house that fits into your ideal feng-shui \\"picture\\" is to have unlimited cash, location and placement possibilities when building your own. No way you can apply this if you are renting, especially if it's a smallish apartment or house and you don't have many different ways to set-up the space.<br /><br />I think I'd MAYBE recommend this to someone who is building their ideal house and has time to look for a good place to buy land etc, basically starting from scratch with the book. Otherwise, the knowledge would be purely academic and not of much use.<br /><br />If you want applicable knowledge and tips on how to set-up your house/apartment, get \\"Clearing the Clutter for Good Feng Shui\\" by Mary Lambert instead, and leave this complicated manual on the store shelf.<br /><br />And as a side note: Black Hat feng shui may be considered inferior, but at least it's easy to understand, fun and inspiring. If you are interested in learning more about Black Hat feng shui, the book to get is \\"Move Your Stuff, Change Your Life\\" by Karen Rauch Carter.<br /><br />When I think of our new apartment, I think about creating something that feels like home, a place to unwind and feel comfortable, a place that reflects US, not someone else. Creating your own living space should be an inspiring creative process, not a chore or something you dread. It should feel like fun, not hard work. If you agree, then this book is really not for you.process, not a chore or something you dread. It should feel like fun, not hard work. If you agree, then this book is really not for you.	2005-07-01
US	44867198	R3DC6C20YIXG4Z	0767920457	962955664	The Fast Track One-Day Detox Diet: Boost Metabolism, Get Rid of Fattening Toxins, Safely Lose Up to 8 Pounds Overnight and Keep Them Off for Good	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Covers it all	You may be suspicious about the title of this book, but don't let that get in your way: this book is much more than a \\"quick fix\\" - in fact, it may just be the solution we have all been waiting for.<br /><br />I have a library full of books, many relating to health, nutrition, detox, and similar topics. But this book is special. It covers all the topics above and more, while at the same time making it all easy to understand and breaking it down so that healthy habits are really at everyone's reach.<br /><br />It really is for everyone: dieters who want to go to the next level; practitioners who are looking to understand better what may be preventing their patients from losing weight/feeling energetic and great all the time; anyone who has wondered why their efforts to get healthy aren't paying off; and anyone who is already doing well but believes there's always room for improvement.<br /><br />This is definitely the best health book I've ever read. I'm a fan of Ann Louise Gittleman's work and own several of the books she authored, but this time she has really outdone herself. Finally the link between nutrition, detox, total health, and weight loss has been found, explained in understandable terms and is available to everyone, so that a wider public than simply the \\"health nuts\\" (:)) can benefit from this information and reach total health.	2005-04-24
US	44867198	R2N7302M1IH546	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nice closing for the Mayfair Witches trilogy	This is the last volume of the trilogy on the Myfair witches, that starts with &quot;The Witching Hour&quot;. This book is not as good as the first volume, but it's nevertheless fascinating and you definitely won't be tempted to abandon this book in the middle.<br />The main character here is Mr. Ash, who is the last Taltos alve, or so it seems. This fascinating, misterious creature's life will become intertwinned with that of the current designee of the Mayfair family legacy in and odd way, and despite all that occurs throughout the book you won't be prepared for what happens at the end.<br />Though the mistake made in the 2nd volume of the trilogy (&quot;Lasher&quot;)is repeated here when Ash talks about his life - some 3 chapters devoted to describing everything in detail, which is interesting at first but then becomes boring and kind of makes you want to skip that section - this book is much more intense and involving than &quot;Lasher&quot;, especially if you are a faithful follower of the Mayfair family. I just read the whole trilogy for the second time and I already feel like starting over again! This is the most fascinating story, full of mystery, history, love (and a pinch of erotism)... a mix that will win you over!	2003-03-22
US	44867198	R2LKJNNZSTQFWT	0345377648	791939496	Lasher (Lives of the Mayfair Witches)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not bad, but not nearly as good as The Witching hour (part1)	This is not a bad book. But being the sequel of The Witching Hour, which was a masterpiece, it definitely doesn't stand up to expectations. The first 2/3 of the book are actually good, the story continues and you are eager to see how it will develop. But the final part, where Lasher talks about his previous life, is incredibly boring. It might have been interesting if it wasn't so long, because it does give you insights on who he really is and sort of gives a different perspective to a character you thought you had pretty much figured out; but it's way too long and descriptive and it loses impact, so the reader is no longer thrilled to know what really happened, but merely wants to &quot;get to the point&quot;. I felt like skipping ahead and didn't just because I was afraid something important would come at some point (and it didn't, really).<br />But aside from this last section, this is a pretty good book, and you anyway need to read it to know what happens after the incredible ending in The Witching Hour, and you need to read it to get to the last book of the trilogy, Taltos. I think it's worth it :)	2003-03-15
US	44867198	R1FAQMD9SKNIWV	0345367898	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent work	In her book \\"The witchhing hour\\", which is the first of the trilogy on the Mayfair withches, Ann Rice does an excellent job. I first read this book about 6 years ago, and I just read it again. And again, it kept me \\"glued\\" to the pages, unable to put it down.<br /><br />The story takes place in modern times, describing a large family in New Orleans, with a strange legacy and a strange \\"ritual\\" in designing the heiress: it has to be a girl, and she has to see \\"the man\\", a family spirit (who, as you'll find out, is way more than that). The book is basically the story of Michael Curry, who happens to meet and fall in love with the current designee of the legacy. And he'll find out just how old and how odd this family is, and what a trickster, how evil \\"the man\\" really is...<br /><br />This is a unique book. Nowhere else you will find such a mixture of history and mystery. The tale of the Mayfair witches through the centuries is interlaced with history events and ages, but it has a life of its own. This book will enthrill you amd mesmerize you.	2003-03-15
US	44867198	R369B7M6R7B7Q3	1565302036	412074843	The Ultimate Lean Routine: 12-Week Cross Training & Fat Loss Program	Books	4	11	11	N	N	You won't need a lot more than this book and MOTIVATION	This is an excellent book. It's written simply and clearly, no real complications, and the author can really connect with the reader.<br />The workouts are expained in a an excellent way; the alternating of workouts is the most effective I have ever tried, and particularly the type of training applied to each workout can create incredible changes for the better WAY faster than any other workout system I tried. It's simple: with a test, you find the right rate YOU need wo do your cardio at (and no, it's not the same old stuff), and work at that rate, until you feel you have improved and then you can take the test again and work out at the newly found rate. Same for the strength training: you find your 10-rep max, perform 3 sets (a warm-up set, a work set and a blast set) and stretch in between sets - a technique that is most effective for increasing muscle strength and particularly for women, to get rid of cellulite in your thighs.<br />The dietary prescription may be too much work for some, not doable for some others and fast burners (see metabolic typing) will probably need a little more protein and good fats to feel full; but generally the dietary guidelines are good and a definite improvement over most people's diets. The fact that the diet part of the plan cannot really be personalized to the needs of the reader made it lose 1 star, I would have given it 5 stars otherwise. But it really is an excellent book. If you feel it's time you start working on improving your body shape and your health, or if you have been working out but you don't feel you are getting the results you deserve for your efforts, this is the book for you - you'll change for the better, really fast.	2002-12-07
US	44867198	RI65U954D6AR6	0671875914	538396267	Your Body Knows Best	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Not a bad read, but incomplete	I recently read Ann Louise Gittleman's book &quot;The Fat Flush Plan&quot; and followed the program for a month and half with very good results. I liked her style and her approach. She's not just another nutritionist or lean person writing a book about something she never had to experience - she knows what it means, to be on a diet thinking that it's the healthiest possible and seeing fail on you, she knows what it means to be on the search for &quot;the perfect weight loss plan&quot; or &quot;the healthiest diet&quot;. So when I heard about this book, I was positively thrilled.<br />Creating a taylored regimen utilizing a combination of different approaches that have been developed through the years is a brilliant idea - after all, metabolic typing and the blood group diet seem to have worked great for a lot of people, but they too were inperfect plans. So combining the two of them and adding the data about ancestry and body needs developed through one's &quot;family tree&quot; seemed like the best idea of all. But a work like this would go into very many aspects and peculiarities, since each approach has its own flaws and supposedly these could be sort of fixed by jumping in with a different approach. In other words, a book like what this book promises would have be much thicker and go into each &quot;tool of personalization&quot; much deeper than this book actually does. It does contain some useful info, and anyone who can fit into the categories very specifically will find it helpful. But in my case, this book didn't tell me anything that could help me taylor my food regimen to my needs - I happen to be of the blood group AB, which is the newest and least common one, so I am told to find a balance between the A group diet and the B group diet. No tayloring on that aspect. Then we come to consider the metabolic typing, and I seem to be a fast burner, except I have some key characteristics of the slow burner, like a passion for cakes, sweets and pastries, and a feeling that no meal is complete without a sweet fix. So that also puts me kind of in the middle.<br />In short, this book is based on an excellent idea but it barely touches the tip of the iceberg. In order to be truly helpful and complete it would need to go much more into each approach and include research on the &quot;exceptions&quot;.<br />A good read for anyone who doesn't have much knowledge of the field of nutrition, mainly an interesting read, but not very useful, for anyone else.eling that no meal is complete without a sweet fix. So that also puts me kind of in the middle. <br />In short, this book is based on an excellent idea but it barely touches the tip of the iceberg. In order to be truly helpful and complete it would need to go much more into each approach and include research on the &quot;exceptions&quot;.<br />A good read for anyone who doesn't have much knowledge of the field of nutrition, mainly an interesting read, but not very useful, for anyone else.	2002-10-24
US	44867198	R3ELAZTI6WY416	034068948X	290410755	Does My Bum Look Big in This?	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Not a very funny read	I bought this book because the title reminded me of me. Women all have their &quot;oh my god, I look awful today&quot; moments, I think, and I know that I have them pretty often, so I thought a book that looked at it with irony could be a good remedy. Perhaps I was right, but this book isn't exactly it.<br />First of all, this is an imitation of Bridget Jones' Diary. Aside from the book being a diary, we have the age of the main character (in her 30s), the fact that she is single and her family gives her a hard time at it, her obnoxious mother, her best friend, whom she calls at any time of the day and night to ask for comfort and help, the fact that she's an assidous reader of self-help books, and that she's constantly alternating bingeing with a very strict diet; all these points she has in common with Bridget. That said, the similarity ends here. Jaqueline, the main character of this book, doesn't have Bridget's humor nor her self-irony, instead she obsessively analizes everything people say and do around her, and concludes each time that there was an implicit message about her being overweight, and having a big bum; she also goes on starvation for days at a time, as preparation for big events. The description of these disturbing behaviours is not filled with irony or made fun of, which make the reader realize that she is slightly paranoid and has an eating disorder - who would want to read the diary of a person like that? Sure not a cheer-up reading.<br />The constant worrying about how fat she is and so on, that is true, it occurs, but here it's taken way too far, and with that it stops being funny and normal and becomes somewhat... crazy. So this was not a very funny read to me, though it did give me food for thought - how far can we go in our worrying about our less-than-perfect body? How do we stop before that starts influencing the way we see things and we stop having fun and enjoying company because of it?	2002-10-14
US	44867198	R2B2O2PT8W0SH	1569120862	336397836	40-30-30 Fat Burning Nutrition: The Dietary Hormonal Connection to Permanent Weight Loss and Better Health	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A good introduction to a workable system	This was the first book I read on the subject of weightloss by combining macro-nutrients in the right percentage. I chose this over \\"The Zone\\" as it seemed more user-friendly, and I was right. The system can be complicated at first, until you get used to it, and the Zone's \\"blocks\\" are an additional complication.<br />The authors do a great job at explaining why it is so important to balance the right amounts of carbohydrate, protein and fat, and how to choose wisely. It could very well be the first health/fitness book a person reeds and the reader would not feel overwhelmed, as the information is given in a way that it can be easily understood without any previous experience or background in the field of nutrition. The data is complete but you don't feel you need to be a biochemist to understand it, like in some other health books.<br />The book also offers one week of menus, in  different variations: the regular ones, the vegetarian and the \\"fat flush\\", for those who want a more rapid weight loss. The meal plans are furtherly taylored to your individual needs by establishing which type of 4 (A-D) you fall in, depending on your weight and activity level, and therefore being able to establish the right quantity of each food contained in the daily menus.<br />There is also advice on what to choose when dining out and nutritional info on common commercial products, as well as a food value guide (how much protein is in 4oz of chicken breast?) to help the reader make the right choices and design his menus following the 40-30-30 regimen.<br />Overall, a very good guide, which doesn't get 5 stars just because at an attentive eye (from someone who has a background in nutrition/health/fitness), the plan would be even better if it was lighter on the sodium and dairy, but still, it's a great improvement over the current nutrition of most people.<br />I would suggest it to anyone who wants to lose weight but also to anyone who wishes to improve his/her fitness performance and energy levels.ergy levels.	2002-10-14
US	44867198	R1P3YQAJL9Q9EI	0440236150	608609195	The Cellulite Breakthrough: 5 Steps to Ending Cellulite Forever	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Valuable info	This book was a bit hard to read - the format is not very nice (small writing, rough pages, only black and white, lots of solid text and no charts or similar) and the first 2 chapters are particularly hard, as the author goes into very much detail of what causes cellulite and what happens at the cellular level and so on. Personally, I'm a bit challenged as far as chemistry goes, so I ended up skipping this section after I had a hard time for several pages.<br />That said, the book does give great, valuable info on supplementation and the right foods to eat to eliminate cellulite and create a cellulite-resistant body. The training section is particularly good, the suggested system of doing 3 sets of each exercise and stretching that muscle in between sets will not only help you eradicate cellulite, but make you much stronger than strength training or cardio alone, much faster. I think the meal plan has a bit too much gluten and dairy for someone who wants to avoid water retention and bloating (and for for general health, too, without mentioning possible intolerances), but if the reader considers that in addition to following the guidelines listed in the chapter about nutrition she can work out her own meal plan better than the one suggested in the book.<br />To really reach your goal, I would recommend pairing this up with the guidelines in &quot;The Fat Flush Plan&quot; by Ann Louise Gittleman, as well as performing periodic mono-dieting, as suggested in &quot;Fit for Life: a new beginning&quot; by Harvey Diamond.	2002-10-14
US	44867198	R2ZZUQ7FKG4O7C	0140298479	787771217	Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Good, not as good as the first one...	Ok, I know what you are thinking - sequels are never as good as the first one, the real thing. But sometimes they come close. Here, Bridget is still our adorable, disorganized, imaginative Bridget, the same one we left at the end of Bidger Jones' Diary. At the beginning of the book, she's offically Mark Darcy's girlfriend, so she is feeling much more at peace with herself. But things change, and you will be surprised of how fast her (funny, but still usual, pretty close to boring) life becomes a sequence of strange occurrences and advantures, including - are you ready for this? - a few days in jail. But Bridget will survive that and much more, thanks to that sense of humor, self-irony and imagination that made us like her so much from the very first pages of her diary!<br />So go ahead and read this, especially if you are a Bridget fan, you'll like it enough.	2002-10-12
US	44867198	R27SWPQ9NK9HT8	1578260868	876607187	The Body Sculpting Bible for Women	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Straight-forward, honest info to get the best body ever	I have been dieting and working out for 3 years, yet I had trouble figuring out if I was doing things right, and especially, I could never get the results I wanted, even though I kept my goals real. Modern dieting philosophies, with their fads and contraddicting theories, got me into yo-yo dieting, which led me to a poor body image, a poor energy level and a physique I was pretty unhappy of.<br />I am glad I found this book. Though the workout part of it will probably not be anything new to intermediate/advanced exercisers, it's new to find such complete, straight-forward info about nutrition, supplements, special needs, the importance of rest, and so on, all in one book.<br />I have just started implementing the nutrition guidelines and I am on the break-in routine (I was on a cleanse and a light exercise regimen for the last month, so I am re-starting gradually), and I can already see how much stronger I am getting, much faster than ever before, and how my energy level and my mood have improved. This leads to less cravings, better workouts, and therefore, more visible results - faster.<br />The best part of the book is how the authors simplified it to the maximum, so that it's all easy to understand and apply: macro-nutrients tables, examples of weekly food regimens, section on special needs, and even diversified workouts for each stage, depending on whether you work out at home or at the gym.<br />I would recommend this to anyone who wants to add resistance training to her workout, or just get more proficient at designing a good, effective workout for herself; I would also recommend it to anyone who has been working out for some time now and &quot;eating healthy&quot; but has not gotten the results she was expecting - this book will deliver them to you!	2002-10-03
US	44867198	R3TVNFZ7X3AE8M	0071383832	897217189	The Fat Flush Plan	Books	4	41	43	N	Y	Somewhat strict regimen, but doable, and IT WORKS!	I have a very long list of diets I've been on, and none of them every worked, really. It was nothing I could stick to, I just didn't do well physically on them, and I never really lost much weight, anyway. Particularly, the most dangerous, longest-lasting fad of all, the low-fat, high-carb diet left me with an unstanble blood sugar, lack of energy, lots of cravings, and hormonal problems. On the other hand, when I tried Atkins I was so nauseated and physically uncomfortable after 2 weeks that I coulnd't stand the sight of eggs, cheese or meat for weeks after that. I thought there was just nothing for me; then I found The Fat Flush Plan - I'm happy to repost I've lost 27 of the 43 pounds I need to lose, and I feel and look better than I have in years.<br />This book is brilliant. It gives info you won't finy anywhere else about the importance of essential fatty acids, how much protein is needed, why not all carbs are equal, and what are the things that are preventing you from being healthy, slim and full of energy.<br />The regimen is divided in 3 sections, or \\"phases\\": phase 1 is the cleansing program, which goes on for a minimum of two weeks till a maximum of 1 month, where you'll have a somewhat limited choice of foods: the only spices allowed are those that are \\"liver-friendly\\", you are limited to 2 portions of low-glycemic fruit a day, and can have only poultry, fish, eggs and some red meats as your protein sources. You are also allowed no salt and no oil except for flax seed oil, that cannot be used for cooking, so you'll be cooking everything using salt-free broth. This phase of the plan is very strict and it will be a challenge for most. If you are a regular exerciser, you will most likely have to tune down your routine as you are not allowed very many carbs on this phase.<br />As hard as it is, it works, and it works great, too. I lost 10 pounds and several inches from my thighs, hips and waist after 1 month on this phase. I was particularly surprised to notice that a big part of what had looked like fat was instead bloating caused by water retention.<br />The next phase, the Phase 2, the \\"Ongoing fat flush\\" is the regimen you are supposed to follow until you have lots all the weight you need/want to lose. Here you are allowed to gradually add in some friendly carbohydrates, starting from some sprouted bread, followed by a small amount of peas, cooked carrots, and some other veggies.<br />Consumption of dairy, salt and other good oils, as well as strength training, are not included in the program until the last phase, phase 3, which is the lifetime maintenance plan.<br />The effect that the elimination of dairy had on me was a welcomed change, not to mention being able to conquer my cravings within only a few weeks on the plan - we are talking about life-long cravings for carbs and sweets, and they gradually disappeared, leaving me content to eat fresh fruit while the rest of my family was feasting on ice cream at a recent barbecue party. My skin is clearer and softer, my hair is shinier and generally healthier, my nails are stronger, and I'm still losing inches from my trouble spots!<br />I think this is a great plan and I think it's the only way for many people to change their diet and overall health for the best. I also believe that the info contained in this book is useful and applicable to some extent for anyone who wants to improve and fine-tune their eating habits. Therefore, even if making a lifestyle out of this plan doesn't seem like something you would be willing to do, I'd recommend you read the book anyway, do the 2 weeks fat-flush and reap the benefits of it, and then incorporate at least some of the principles in your lifestyle. You won't be disappointed, I promise!tice that a big part of what had looked like fat was instead bloating caused by water retention.<br />The next phase, the Phase 2, the \\"Ongoing fat flush\\" is the regimen you are supposed to follow until you have lots all the weight you need/want to lose. Here you are allowed to gradually add in some friendly carbohydrates, starting from some sprouted bread, followed by a small amount of peas, cooked carrots, and some other veggies. <br />Consumption of dairy, salt and other good oils, as well as strength training, are not included in the program until the last phase, phase 3, which is the lifetime maintenance plan.<br />The effect that the elimination of dairy had on me was a welcomed change, not to mention being able to conquer my cravings within only a few weeks on the plan - we are talking about life-long cravings for carbs and sweets, and they gradually disappeared, leaving me content to eat fresh fruit while the rest of my family was feasting on ice cream at a recent barbecue party. My skin is clearer and softer, my hair is shinier and generally healthier, my nails are stronger, and I'm still losing inches from my trouble spots!<br />I think this is a great plan and I think it's the only way for many people to change their diet and overall health for the best. I also believe that the info contained in this book is useful and applicable to some extent for anyone who wants to improve and fine-tune their eating habits. Therefore, even if making a lifestyle out of this plan doesn't seem like something you would be willing to do, I'd recommend you read the book anyway, do the 2 weeks fat-flush and reap the benefits of it, and then incorporate at least some of the principles in your lifestyle. You won't be disappointed, I promise!	2002-10-03
US	44867198	RHPC3JA0BJQWW	0446355453	394618070	Master of the Game	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A good story with a special historic touch	I loved this book. The main character is a strong woman who wants to have control over all areas of her life, and definitely overdoes it at times, falling into the tempation to control the lives of those around her, as well. But despite that, the reader will find her fashinating and enticing, probably because of all the had to go through, the environment she grew up in, and the story and character of both her parents. This is accomplished by carefully including a description of what was going on in the world in the different periods, giving this book a touch of historic novel without making it boring (as most historic novels are) and enriching the character of new traits by showing how she was involved with the various things happening, like wars, apartheid (the character is SouthAfrican), etc. What comes out is a very real character, with her good traits and her flaws, that the reader will love especially because it's real - but with those traits that make her just special enough to be the &quot;heroine&quot; of the book. Everything else that happens, involving her family, is touching, scary, often thrilling - but at the end it all evolves around her, once again, because she does have control of all areas of her life and those involved. A really fascinating book that will take you to places and times you probably never lived in before, and will make you think, too.	2002-10-03
US	44867198	RTOEBKBKPM2CN	0684810387	27510973	Moonlight Becomes You	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	I loved this book. The main character is really likable and as the story develops, it gets more intense and full of suspense, so much that I really had trouble putting this book down! The only thing I didn't like is that there were a lot of characters and it was hard to remember who was who and keep track of them all - that's why I gave it 4 stars instead of 5. But it's undoubtedly a very good book, I would recommend it to anyone who likes mistery and suspense.	2002-10-03
US	44867198	R3HY1YGXIJVCBR	1576300390	430476117	Thin for Life Daybook: A Journal of Personal Progress-Inspiration & Keys to Success from People Who Have Lost Weight & Kept It Off	Books	3	12	12	N	N	Not for all dieters and not extremely practical	I bought this diary to monitor my food intake when I was &quot;recovering&quot; from yo-yo dieting. The beginning of the diary is helpful, as each week starts with a page that you fill out to see if you are on the right track as far as weight loss efforts go, for example a page about what you like and dislike to do when you are trying to lose weight, and then an analysis to see if a commericial diet plan, a do-it-yourself or a guided weightloss is best for you. But this kind of pages doesn't last for the entire diary and after being used to them for some weeks you get a feeling that the diary is no longer helping you to taylor your regimen to your needs and goals. Instead, the first page of the month becomes a weekly suggestion about modifications you can apport to your routine, that won't actually fit all lifestyles/people. The suggestions are from the high-carbohydrate/low-fat diet current, one that didn't and doesn't work for me personally, as I am sugar sensitive, so I was not very eager to read the weekly suggestions anymore.<br />The next page in each weekly &quot;space&quot; is my favorite, the one for which I gave it 3 stars. A space to record your goal(s) for the week, any interference you expect happening and any remedies so that you can get back on track in case those interference do hinder you getting to your weekly goal(s). Then a space for you to establish an exercise schedule for the coming week. This page was the most helpful part because I could predict things better and therefore control them better, and also preparing an exercise schedule was fun and it helped me keep exercise regular.<br />The next 2 pages of each week are for the daily food intake and daily accomplishments. Definitely too little space on each day to track the food in a way that it could easily be referred to later (food diaries are mostly used to define patterns in your food intake and your allergy symptoms/weight gain/craving/etc., so you need to have the food intake clearly written down in order for the diary to serve its purpose). I would have preferred the diary to last 6 months instead of 1 year, or even 3 months, but have more space for the daily food intake and accomplishments, so that the info recorded could be tidy and useful for later, too.<br />All in all, not a bad product, but also not as good as it could have been.itten down in order for the diary to serve its purpose). I would have preferred the diary to last 6 months instead of 1 year, or even 3 months, but have more space for the daily food intake and accomplishments, so that the info recorded could be tidy and useful for later, too.<br />All in all, not a bad product, but also not as good as it could have been.	2002-09-21
US	44867198	R3H5G7AGA4Y83J	1579543448	544959680	Eat Smart, Play Hard: Customized Food Plans for All Your Sports and Fitness Pursuits	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Not much scientific background, but some useful information	I bought this book because I was looking for some help in tayloring my food regimen better to the type of exercise I did in different periods. The title and description of the book gave me the idea that it would deliver to me exactly what i was looking for. But I was quite disappointed. I have read several nutrition/health books, so I have quite some data, I was just looking for something that would help me give the finishing touch, the \\"taylor-made\\" touch to an otherwise good food regimen. What I found was a lot of common knowledge-type info, things that you most likely already know if you attend the gym or run regularly. Since the author is someone with a background in nutrition/fitness, I was expecting more. I was expecting in-depth info of what is needed in terms of nutrients when practicing a specific sport as opposed to another one, while I found that this book contained also some falsehoods and suggestions that are not necessarily healthy. The meal plans are too much carbohydrate-based so they won't be of much help to someone who is exercising also for weightloss and for people who are sugar-sensitive (and there are a lot), but it's also non-optimal for any fitness enthusiast who wants to keep healthy through exercise.<br />The author does make distinctions between sports and acivities and puts the emphasis on special nutritional needs for some sports, and you can find some useful data on this aspect, and that's why I gave it 2 stars and not 1.	2002-02-14
US	44867198	R26T63QC48EQ30	1557883599	388736655	The Mediterranean Vegan Kitchen: Meat-Free, Egg-Free, Dairy-Free Dishes from the Healthiest Region Under the Sun	Books	5	81	84	N	N	My favorite cooking book	I bought this book when I started what I call &quot;my trip towards vegetarianism&quot;. When I decided to start decreasing my intake of animal products, I decided to experiment new ways of cooking veggies: I love cooking and I enjoy eating good food, and I was not going to make my meals boring or lacking in taste because I decided to eat healthier, no way! This book shows how simple it can be to eat healthier while still enjoying your meals fully and not feeling deprived. As an Italian, I found here recipes that I absolutely love, as they use spices and tastes very familiar to me. But this book also contains recipes from Spain, Greece, France, and other Mediterranean areas. You'll fall in love with this book! Since I started preparing the dishes in this book my husband told me I didn't need to make meat for him anymore at home, as he loved my veggie dishes.<br />Being a vegetarian/vegan has never been so easy!	2002-01-25
US	44867198	R1E4F0MEO64SU9	0935526633	663724801	New Vegetarian Baby	Books	5	67	68	N	N	Great reference, not only for vegetarians	I just finished reading this book, and I wish I had it when my daughter was born!<br />We becams vegetarian (nearly vegan) over the last year or so, and that's why I decided to read this book: even though my daughter is no longer a baby (she's 2 and half), I wanted to start from scratch with the info on vegetarian nutrition for children.<br />This book offers a wealth of information on macro- and micro-nutrients and on all staple foods for a vegetarian/vegan baby. There's plenty of info on grains, vegetables, beans and nuts, fruits, and all vitamin and minerals necessary for a baby to thrive. I found the info on grains particularly interesting, as it went into grains I have never heard of or was not very familiar with and showed the ideal sequence to introduce the various grains, from the lightest and gluten free to the more common, glutinous corn and wheat.<br />Because even in omnivorous families, meat is one of the last items introduced to a baby, I think this is a great resource for any parent, vegetarian or not, as fruits, vegetables and grains are usually introduced first in any case, and this book will explain you how and when it's best to introduce each of those foods, also taking into consideration the prevention or spotting of possible allergies or intolerances.<br />The book also offers ideas for menus for your baby, and at the end there is a useful FAQ section.<br />A great book, which I am planning to buy as a gift the next time a friend is pregnant.	2002-01-25
US	44867198	R3DP4I9NEYEI9F	0446364886	611686239	A New Way of Eating from the Fit for Life Kitchen	Books	4	47	47	N	N	Simple, healthy recipes that taste good	I like this cooking book and use it wuite often. It has several sections, and I especially like the one on salads and salad dressings and the one of fruit smoothies. The book can actually be used by people who have not read the Fit for Life books, too, as it contains a summary of the main info on food combining and fruit consumption; while Fit for Life fans will like it as it will bring nice new recipes in their kitchen, while still assuring them they are eating as healthy as possible.<br />The book contains several sections: fruit smoothies, juices and salads; vegetable salads and many dressings for them: sandwitches (yes, you can have a properly combined sandwicth, and once you had one, you won't want to go back to the old way!); soups; vegetable dishes; feast and buffest dishes.<br />The recipes are simple to realize even for people who don't have much experience in cooking, and they are realized with readily available items. This book will allow you to cook for your family and know they are eating properly without much effort on your side, and they'll like what you cook!<br />Particularly recommended for vegetarians! But anyone will like this book.	2002-01-21
US	44867198	R1ED2LII244Z17	0884049167	516830858	Integrity and Honesty	Books	5	4	7	N	N	I have to thank this book for getting me out of trouble	I read this book when I was a teenager. Although I had always been very well-balanced in my life, I was going through a bad period of my teen-years. Until a few months before, I had been always successful in school, had a pretty good relationship with my parents, and had good friends. Then it changed. Why, I found out reading this book. With very simple words, this book explains the concepts of ethics and morality, subjects often named, but deeply understood only by a few. I was &quot;hanging out&quot; with people who were absolutely the opposite of what I was and wanted to be: they smoked pot; didn't care about their education and therefore often disregarded their studies and school; didn't care of the efforts of their parents to give them what they needed, and talked bad about their parents all the time; didn't care about love, only about sex, which seemed to be considered just like a hobby, with nothing  behind it.<br />When I realized all this, I was amazed at how I had been influenced to think like them. Luckily for me, this book helped me understand that it was more important for me to understand and act, rather than feel guilty, so I did just that. I went out of that group, and decided what I wanted to do with my life. I was able to talk to my parents again and they helped me get things organized again in my life to reach my goals. Soon I was doing well in school again and I was happy with myself, and I didn't have any trouble finding new friends whom I could share my goals and objectives with.<br />Later on, I used the data in this book many times to help people handle similar situations, as well as solve conflicts in my group of friends and in my class. I grew up, found a job that I liked, a man that I loved, and now I have a family, and I continue to apply the data I learned in this book.<br />Everyone needs this data. I am very happy I read it and that I know this data to teach to my daughter. It's a vital tool for parents, teachers, but also for younger people.people.	2002-01-16
US	44867198	R3F4E3QS3E7G64	0894805770	597324596	What to Expect the First Year	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Very good and very useful for any parent	I got this book after having my daughter, a little over 2 years ago. I started reading it, often going ahead of her age, curious of when my daughter would be doing certain things (the book is divided in chapters, by month, and each month you have a list of activities that your baby is likely to be doing at that specific age). I also read the end section of the book, which talks about illnesses and injuries. At times I wondered why I was reading all that stuff, as my daughter was very healthy and I was a very careful mo, and always at home with her, so it was not likely that she would get hurt. But eventually, I found out how true it is what the philospher L. Ron Hubbard wrote: &quot;Be ready for emergencies, for if you are not, you will have emergencies&quot;. One day my daughter, who was about 9 months old at the time, was crying desperately, very odd thing for her. Thanks to the information gotten from this book, I was able to prompty &quot;diagnose&quot;: she had an inguinal hernia. I called the children hospital and described the signs and symptoms (the book also teaches you what to take note of and what to describe when you call the emergency room, for speedy handling) and the doctor said it sounded like I was right and to bring her in. We did, and the matter got handled over the weekend, then I took my daughter home. When I brought her to her Pediatrician for a check of the area, a week later, he congratulated me for the way I handled it, and told me he was really proud of me being able to diagnose it correctly and getting it handled accordingly, saving my daughter a great deal of pain and complications. And all thanks to this book. Had it been one of the usual baby books, biased by one current of thought only and hard to read and understand, I wouldn't have read it! Instead it's very informative, easy to read and understand, and on many important issues (breastfeeding/bottle feeding, sleeping schedule and habits, etc) it offers several viewpoints and info on the various currents of thought.the various currents of thought.	2002-01-16
US	44867198	R1BIQYL4BPCJR6	1583330771	859595068	Prescription for Nutritional Healing (Prescription for Nutritional Healing: A Practical A-To-Z Reference to Drug-Free Remedies)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A MUST for anyone intersted in natural remedies	This book was first introduced to me when I got pregnant and a friend referred me the pregnancy section in it. I saw how informative it was and how easy to understand, and decided to purchase my own copy. It has been my bible on natural healing since. It has so much info in it! The section at the beginning is all about the elements of health: it's divided in sub-sections on water, vitamins, amonoacids, etc, and they go into detail as to what each (vitamin, enzyme, etc) is called, what it's useful for, and where it can be found. Then follows part 2, which lists out various body problems in alphabetical order and gives an explanation of the illness, suggestions as to which herbs, vitamins etc to take and how they will help, followed by general giodelines about nutrition, possible causes, etc. Part 3 contains various methods used to bring good healthy, such as fasting, colonics, etc.<br />I suggest this book to anyone. It will be a great resource for those who don't like to use drugs to heal, but also to those who currently do use drugs, as you'll be able to find out just how effective natural healing can be, and how much better it is for your overall health.	2002-01-16
US	44867198	R2OADZ53I65FBP	1584600055	726954743	Learning How to Learn	Books	5	17	28	N	N	A vital tool for anyone!	All of us went through schooling. Most of us have some sort of degree, diploma, or the sort. But how many people come out of high school, college even university as competent as they should be in the subjects they just studied? Not many. The main problem is that most people don't know HOW to study so that they will actually understand, and thefore remember and learn for real the things they are studying. This book teaches exactly how to do that. I got though this book when I was a little girl, then I reviewed it later on when I was starting high school, and I am so thankful for having had this technology made available to me! I got through my studies without problems and with great success, thanks to knowing the data in this book. While my schoolmates tried the various &quot;learn by heart&quot; and &quot;listen to it while you are sleeping&quot; techniques to get through tough chapters, it only took me a distraction-free environment, a good dictionary and a few little objects (nothing specific, just little things found around the house). How easy is that? Very easy! And how good are the results you'll get? VERY GOOD!	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R21CCJZ1S4EI5K	0884046311	659473986	Basic study manual	Books	5	9	15	N	N	If you want to be a good student, read this book.	I got through this book when I was in middle school, and I am really happy I did. I saw for myself how much the tools I learned in this book helped me through my schooling, especially later on, from High school on up. I was always one of the top students, even in &quot;trouble subjects&quot;. So what, you might say, I know a lot of top students. I do too, but most of them cannot remember much of the subjects of the tests where they got such great marks, only a few months later, not to mention after finishing that course of study and later on in life. The difference? They don't know how to study, they study for the test or for the grade. This book will teach you how to study to leand and understand, and you'll be able to use those things for life.	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R3I4YVQLSCT4BK	0884047598	36896534	Fear	Books	5	0	1	N	N	One of my favorites	I really like mistery and horror books, I always did - why, I don't know, since a lot of them gave me nightmares! This book was different. This book was mysterious and involving, without being introverting. It was incredibly good. The book takes you though a great description of the characters and their life, which turns more into a living nightmare for the main character. The end is as surprising as it gets - I had to read the last 2 pages a few times to make sure I understood it right - it was the last thing I could have ever expected! I am trying to forget a bit about this book so I can read it again, but it's so peculiar and written so well that it's hard to forget. I rarely read a book which I liked from beginning to end - actually, I never did, until I read this one! An absolute must for anyone who is into mystery books.	2002-01-14
US	44867198	RHBSWONPWHHN6	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Good, but not as good as I expected...	... but I must say, as an avid reader, the movies inspired by books I have read are never as good as I expected them to be after having read the book!<br />The main characted was interpreted very well, I am amazed that the actor could actually do such a good job! He really was Johnny! But I was not quite happy with the other characters - not that they were not good actors, more like that the characters themselves were not presented so well. In the book, you learn to have very strong and definite feelings towards the various characters, while in the movie, it was more like there was only Johnny really, all the others were just people in his life. I do understand though that being the adventures very involved, the movie could not possibly contain all we wish it could have contained, as it's already a 3 hours movie and it would have been much longer if more time was spend on each character. But I thought this made it a bit hard to follow in some spots.<br />The scenography is awesome. If it was only for that and the costumes, the movie deserved 5 full stars. It was incredible, they did an amazing job at building the various places.<br />All in all, a pretty good movie.<br />P.S. This movie is based only on the first book of the trilogy, so I guess we can expect 2 more coming at some point in the future!	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R3B6WVM7C8L49N	1573181323	388834453	Introduction to Scientology Ethics	Books	5	16	23	N	N	This book will give you toos to use in your life everyday	This book comprises the many aspects of ethics, and explains them all. Mr. Hubbard starts by explaining the difference between \\"ethics\\" and \\"justice\\", thing misunderstood by many.<br />Follows an explanation of the various conditions and how one moves through them. The conditions are, in my viewpoint, the single most important tool one can use in all areas of his life. One is always in a certain condition, and his goal is usually to go up, to do well in all areas of his life: in his relationships, in his work, and privately, on his own. Reading this book one can learn how to achieve success though the correct application of conditions, which will help decide what specific actions to take to handle tough situations or keep up very good statistics.<br /><br />There are other very useful tools in this book, and all will help deal with life better and be a better person, and a happier person!<br /><br />I have been able to apply these tools in my life and it has been very helpful. I have to thank Mr. Hubbard for making them available to us, as thanks to their use I have a happy, fulfulling life, a great marriage, and I feel like I can handle things much better.	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R1WDK6HLAN73Q9	0884042898	363931774	Disaster (Mission Earth, Vol 8)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Not my favorite volume so far, but stil compelling!	In this book, it really seems like the story is coming to an end, instead here's still so much to read!!! Gris, the bad guy, who has been narrating so far, is now now longer in the right position to keep narrating, nor does he know certain aspects of how the story develops, so the writer, very surprisingly, switches narrator! It's hard to get accustomed to a new one, after having read 7 and half book narrated by Soltan Gris, with his dark humor and so on, this narrator is completely different... but I don't want to spoil the surprise. Let's just say that this narrator, thought in a different way and with a different writing style, can still tell you what happened! and keep you glued to the book! I cannot wait to get the next 2 volumes in the mail!	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R14RNIQNXLXPCM	1575667185	129293796	Fit for Life: A New Beginning	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A masterpiece: a real solution for disease	I just finished reading this book and I am recommending it to all my friends, especially those who have physical problems, especially cancer.<br />When one mentions cancer, people are more horrified by it than by heart disease, though the latest is leading the statistics as far as deaths. Why? Because of the treatment: when one talks about cancer, people immediatly get horrifying images of chemotherapy treatments, losing one's hair, radiation, and so on. I never believed that the current medical approach to cancer (not to mention other ilnesses) was the right one, nor that it was a real solution. After all, as Mr. Diamon says in this book &quot;noone can be poisoned back to health&quot;.<br />I met few people though who were afraid of cancer the way I was before reading this book. After having a case of breast cancer happening in my family, every time I had pain somewhere was for me a great scare, and I was afraid I might have cancer in the body part that was hurting. I know, silly, but cancer is scary and no one so far has come up with a solution. Or better, no one had, until Mr. Diamond wrote this book. He says we should concentrate on prevention, for all diseases, not on cure! And he's right. In this book he explain how to prevent and reverse disease. You need this data, everyone does. And thanks to him, I am not so afraid of cancer anymore, as I know I am preventing it and if it would occur I could cure it without going through the nightmare (for the patient), money making (for the pharma industry) treatments advised by the medical community.	2002-01-14
US	44867198	R8QX66NMENRP4	1570670552	572531512	Nonna's Italian Kitchen: Delicious Home-Style Vegan Cuisine (Healthy World Cuisine)	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Very good, especially if not everyone in your family is veg*	I am Italian, I love cooking and I love eating, and I am also a vegetarian tending to vegan, and that's why I got this book.<br />This book contains many favorites of Italian cooking, in vegan version. So where meat is called for in the original dish it's replaced by seitan or similar vegan meat substitute; same with cheese and other animal products.<br />It's very useful if you are vegan but not everyone in your family is, as you can cook the same dish in two version, like I often make hunter's chicken for my husband and a hunter's seitan (or other meat substitute) for my daughter and myself.<br />The reason why I gave it 4 stars and not 5 is that the book is not always precise in its descriptions of original dishes and many of the Italian names are mispelled, sometimes badly; from these two aspects it looks like the Mrs. Clark-Grogan didn't do an accurate research, but instead relayed on her relatives to give her the correct information. But overall, the book is a great buy, and I wouls suggest it to any vegan and to anyone who wants to eat good but also healthy.	2002-01-03
US	44867198	R347Y5YBHOVG8	0895291932	295044360	Be Your Own Doctor: A Positive Guide to Natural Living	Books	5	139	140	N	N	The best health book ever	This book focuses on the right diet (as in food regimen, not as in weightloss diet) for the human body. And through a very interesting and logic but very simple way of writing, Ann Wigmore explains how she got, through her research, to find what's best for our body: a vegetarian diet, best if based on raw foods. But don't be tricked into thinking that this is just another vegetarian book: this book actually explains how you can help your body stay healthy and cure it if you are currently ill, by simply bringing it back to balance, with the help of natural elements.<br />Ann Wigmore also explains why not all vegetables are the same and why exactly organic is best, especially from a nutrition point of view. She also explains how to successfully grow your own veggies and sprouts yourself, even indoors, with very little equipment, all easy to get. And then she goes into the wheatgrass and its juices, explain how she discovered it's the most nutritious grass of all, and tell you how to sprout it and juice it properly, how to keep it, and even how to mail it to someone without making it lose its potential!<br />If you want to be healthy and keep healthy for many years to come, this is the book for you. I believe everyone should read this book, even people who are usually not into health books. Even my husband, omnivore and avid reader of comic books, found this book interesting and useful. Go for it, you will be amazed how simple it is to be healthy!	2001-08-04
US	44867198	RJHV6AEL8XL7Z	0446300152	129293796	Fit for Life	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The best start for a healthy lifestyle	This book changed my life. It was the first health book I ever read, and to find so much vital data, explained so simply and down-to-Earth was truly amazing. The book really explains how you can improve your overall health by making a few simple changes in your eating habits, and believe me, if you are willing to try, you will be too pleased to go back to your old habits! The best part is that you can do this whethere you are a stay-at-home-mom or a busy executive, the changes are so simple that you can make them even if you are always in a hurry or if you eat out most of the time. And what will you get? More energy, like A LOT MORE, and a better functioning immune system, for starters. I am 25 years old and very healthy, but this book still helped me change my life for the better, so I am sure a lot of people who have more physical problems can be helped by reading and applying the principles in this book, too!	2001-08-04
US	44867198	R108OYYVOTV10G	0761514481	15638896	Living Foods for Optimum Health : Staying Healthy in an Unhealthy World	Books	4	44	46	N	N	Clear and informative, but not for newbies	If you are omnivorous, you may not be ready for this book. Brian Clement, who took over the Hippocrate's Health Center from Ann Wigmore, truly believes that raw vegetarianism is the only way to go. The book is filled with useful information, but it may be hard to digest if it's the first time you read about how living food can change your health for the better, or even for the best. The introductory part is very open and may scare you and drive you off the whole subject. If you want a book that will give you a first &quot;taste&quot; on the subject of raw vegetarianism, pick &quot;Be your own doctor&quot; by Ann Wigmore.<br />Other than that, this health book is realistic, and informative.	2001-08-04
US	44867198	R2VYCWCPBX9M7J	0446358754	129293796	Fit for Life II	Books	5	146	150	N	N	Afterwards you'll know how to get and stay healthy, for real	I'd like to start by saying that I think everyone should read Fit for Life first and then Fit for Life 2 - Living Health. This second books summarizes well the facts illustrated in the first book, but you will get a much better picture if you start with the first book. Also, it will probably be hard for most people to make a lot of changes in their lifestyle together, while it will definitely be easier to somewhat change your eating habits first and then expand your healthy habits adopting some (or all) of the suggestions you'll find in this 2nd book.<br />This book is not only about losing weight, as a thin person is not necessarily healthy. It's not just about looking good, it's about feeling good and treating your body how it deserves and then seeing the results on the outside, as well.<br />This book gives a very good understanding of how everybody, no matter their age, can be healthy and feel great and have a better life, and it explains it all very simply, so everyone can read it and understand it.<br />I also found that the recipes in this book are much better than the ones in the first book. A few days ago I made &quot;ice cream&quot; using frozen mango, bananas and strawberries and my whole family loved it! Only afterwards I told my husband that there was no milk nor any sugar added, and he could not believe it! My husband is also starting to get over the common view that &quot;healthy things don't taste good&quot;, and believe me, I am a picky cook. I am Italian, I love cooking and I was always convinced that a meal should leave one satisfied.<br />And the book really gives you the awarness you need that WE ALL NEED to do something to keep healthy, because IT'S WORTH IT! Now I am eating well (that means I am eating healthy but I am also satisfied about my meals), I have enough energy to take care of my house, my 2 years old daughter and my numerous hobbies, and exercise, I am feeling better than I had in the long time and I am losing weight! What can one ask for more?ask for more?	2001-06-06
