US	44868072	R34T932E2WDLPT	0375422404	530251799	Mythology: The DC Comics Art of Alex Ross	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Showcasing the world's greatest painter of superheroes...	Alex Ross rose to fame with 1994's Marvels, a mini-series that chronicled the Marvel Universe from the perspective of an ordinary person. Yet the comic book painter's career really took off when he began working extensively at DC Comics (the Pepsi to Marvel's Coke). This is largely because Marvel has attempted to strip superheroes of their myth-like aura while DC has more or less embraced it and there is something very mythic about Ross' art. His paintings are larger-than-life, and fully embrace the fantastic nature of superheroes. Common to Ross' work is not only flying supermen, but shocked crowds, birds-eye-views of cities and extremes of light and darkness. Meanwhile his use of vintage costumes and reproductions of classic images resonate deeply in the American psyche, where these characters are held as icons.<br />Yet his superheroes are also very human in a way. He never forgets Superman's integrity, Batman's determination, or Wonder Woman's pride and makes each hero's defining characteristic evident in their faces. He even paints a wonderfully cheeky Plastic Man.<br />The coffee table book Mythology is an excellent sampling of the comics books, posters and T-shirts and more Ross has painted for the company. The three biggest focuses are his kindly, luminous Superman, his dark, noble Batman and his almost overwhelming portraits of the all-star Justice League of America. Lesser coverage is given to Wonder Woman, Captain Marvel, Green Lantern and others.<br />Mythology also takes readers behind the scenes of Ross' work. They get to see fully grown men pose in Superman and Captain Marvel costumes as Ross' models and see how a painting develops, step-by-step. There are extensive also looks at Uncle Sam, a series about a homeless man who embodies America's lost dreams (one of Ross' few non-superhero works), and Kingdom Come, Ross' beloved series about the DC Universe's distopian future.<br />Mythology can be repetitive (How many mighty-looking pictures of superheroes standing together in a chorus line does anyone need?), yet there is no denying that he is the best painter of comic books in the medium's history. His versions of DC characters are bold, captivating and embody all that makes them American icons. For anyone who holds close to his or her heart the creation we call the superhero, Mythology will be a real treat.	2004-01-11
US	44868072	R1DBXJUDULD7T6	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Steinbeck's best?	John Stienbeck had experimented with loosely structured tales of noble drifters before, but his musings on the theme peaked with the classic Cannery Row. Although it is not as epic as East of Eden or as urgent as The Grapes of Wraith, the novella may be Steinbeck's best book for its style, personality and heart.<br />There is no central storyline in Cannery Row, only a cluster of anecdotes, concerning inhabitants the lowlife district of a coastal town in pre-World War II California. From the contemplative Chinese grocer to the sociable but cynical marine biologist to the charismatic leader of a fellowship of drifters, these are some of Stienbeck's most memorable characters and their exploits are wholly entertaining.<br />Even though Cannery Row is free-spirited, it is not light. Themes of discontentment, emotional weakness and sometimes painful disparity between intent and outcome color the novel's vignettes. Even the book's portrayal of lighthearted drifters revolves around a heavy thesis. These are strong, capable people. What does it say about society that they can't or won't achieve anything overly tangible?<br />But such questions do not concern Cannery Row's greatest strength: how enjoyable it is to read. Its first sentence is about as famous as Moby Dick's and A Tale of Two Cities'. \\"Cannery Row is Monterey California is a poem, a stink, a grating noise, a dream.\\" The prose is just as invigorating throughout, another reason why Cannery Row is a plotless masterpiece.	2004-01-11
US	44868072	R19NWIBZHXTXH	0743435087	835439981	Dying Inside	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Aging and regret from a sci-fi perspective	Robert Silverberg started out in the outlandish word of sci-fi pulps and has written about countless fantastic worlds and peoples since. But the novel that is often considered his best is one of his more earthly, Dying Inside.<br />Dying Inside is the story of David Selig, an aging New York loafer who is loosing his ability to read minds. The novel takes a non-linear approach to examines Selig's life, flip-floping between his childhood feud with his adopted sister, his uncomfortable friendship with a callous young man with similar powers, his uneasy romance in that uneasy year 1968 and his depressing present, forging term papers for Colombia jocks and losing his powers.<br />What is remarkable about Dying Inside is that Silverberg writes more about old flames, squandered youth and other ordinary lost opportunities than about special abilities. Silverberg is writing about (and writing about quite well) a person who wasted extraordinary potential, something anyone of a certain age can relate to. The further one reads Dying Inside, the more it becomes apparent that the book is not about superpowers but about life and aging from a unique perspective. For science fiction lovers or fans or anyone merely looking for a good novel, Dying Inside is sure to be a winner.	2004-01-11
US	44868072	R2QL4WKWPNZGA7	0140187464	364993993	The Moon Is Down	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not just propaganda	Some label The Moon Is Down as propaganda (usually a negative connotation even if its cause is virtuous) and there is an argument to make for that. The novella, about an unnamed European town under Nazi occupation, was written during John Stienbeck's stint as a World War II reporter and was translated into several languages and purposefully spread to areas that might face the dilemma depicted within.<br />Yet Steinbeck is still Steinbeck and even if The Moon Is Down is a propaganda piece, that does not mean it is anything swallow. Among other things, Steinbeck excelled at portraying people in difficult situations with deep psychological and moral insight. That applies to the destitute Okies of The Grapes of Wrath, the wanderers from Of Mice and Men and it certainly applies to the humble townspeople of The Moon Is Down, who must decide between indigent but safe captivity or righteous but bloody resistance. Perhaps the most difficult and most interesting predicament is that of Mayor Orden. Is it is his duty to maintain security and order or to lead his people against the invaders?<br />But what is remarkable about The Moon Is Down (especially considering its status as a propaganda novel) is how well Steinbeck explores the other side, that of the occupiers. Steinbeck refuses to let them be paper bad guys. Instead, he skillfully explores their paranoia that the town will rise-up and kill them and their misery due to everyone around them hating them.<br />The atmosphere of The Moon Is Down is tense and it becomes only a matter of time before the bubble bursts. In the meantime, Stienbeck gets behind his characters' eyes for a deep and powerful portrait of occupation. The Moon is Down may have been written as a propaganda piece, but it is also a lot more.	2004-01-11
US	44868072	R28GN3E9UX6B9U	1401200893	300841124	Sandman, The: Endless Nights	Books	3	48	55	N	N	Gaiman returns to Sandman with mixed results	When I heard that Neil Gaiman was working on a new Sandman graphic novel, I was skeptical. The seventy-five issue comic book series began, proceeded and ended just fine. With dozens of spin-off mini-series, an illustrated Sandman prose novel, a &quot;companion&quot; book, a collection of quotes and a book of covers, the amount of peripheral volumes has become excessive. Then there are the posters, statues, and action figures. Even an artist as genuine as Gaiman can be tempted by the right amount of money and publicity and I feared Sandman: Endless Nights was just another part of the small marketing blitz that has accompanied Sandman's lasting popularity.<br />Now that I have read Endless Nights I am not sure. There are fantastic stories in here that are superb additions to the Sandman saga and there are also stories that seem like they did not need to be told.<br />Perhaps the reason Endless Nights is hit-or-miss is its format. In Sandman, seven all-powerful siblings, called The Endless, each have a different role in regulating conscious experience. The main character was the morose Dream, but the saga also featured the omniscient Destiny, the upbeat yet intelligent Death, the easy-going Destruction, the stoic Despair, the condescending Desire and the loopy Delirium. Endless Nights consists of seven chapters, each drawn by a different illustrator and each devoted to a different sibling. The problem is that these characters are defined by their mysteriousness and strangeness and do not easily lend themselves to central roles (Even Dream, the member of The Endless who readers knew best, played a role other than protagonist more often than not during the run of the comic series).<br />In three cases, Endless Nights adapts with structures as abstract as its characters. &quot;Fifteen Portraits of Despair&quot; consists of bizarre sketches showing Despair's unsightly body, surrounded by anecdotes about miserable people. &quot;Destiny&quot; is a Biblical-sounding description of Destiny's realm and duties drawn in big, splashy illustrations. &quot;Going Inside&quot; features Dream recruiting five mentally ill people to rescue Delirium from a sticky situation she has gotten herself into in her realm. This chapter is told in a blend of computer-generated images and cartoony artwork that can only be described as breathe-taking. In fact, all these chapters feature gorgeous visuals but the stories, while original, seem clumsy and underdeveloped; as if having one chapter devoted to each of the Endless and experimental art techniques were most important and the plots were throw together secondarily.<br />The better chapters are the ones that adapt to the nature of The Endless by putting someone else in the lead. In &quot;What I've Tasted of Desire,&quot; a story from olden times, a maiden is transformed by Desire into a crafty seductress. In &quot;Death and Venice,&quot; (a Sandman-style &quot;Masque of the Red Death&quot;) an American GI helps Death enter a masked ball that a sixteenth century Count has kept frozen in time. In &quot;Destruction on the Peninsula,&quot; an archeologist uncovers a strange phenomena related to Destruction and Delirium vacationing nearby (This chapter follows-up &quot;Going Inside&quot; yet leaves much unsolved. Is Gaiman contemplating another Sandman project?). The very best chapter is &quot;The Heart of a Star.&quot; At the dawn of time, stars could live, breath, speak and love and one loved Dream. The surreally beautiful story tells much about history of The Endless and is the biggest treat for longtime readers. The artwork of these four tales is less grand than that of the other three, but certainly has its own merits.<br />Endless Nights has its ups and downs and I cannot say fully that it was a bad idea for Gaiman to reopen the world of Sandman. The Endless are fascinating and there are countless tales that could be told about them. Let's just hope that if Gaiman plans on extending his return to Sandman, the quality of his stories is more consistent.	2003-12-29
US	44868072	R3T12ME9JR9GP1	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	4	37	39	N	N	Dick's strange Gnostic vision	The protagonist of the Divine Invasion is Herb Asher, a recluse living on a human colony on the planet CY30-CY30B. Asher spends most his time lying in bed, listening to singer Linda Fox, until one day a deity identifying itself as the Judeo-Christian God Yahweh calls him to comfort his neighbor, Rybys Rommey, who suffers from multiple sclerosis. A prophet named Elias Tate informs them that Rybys, a virgin, is pregnant with the Second Coming and the three travel to Earth where the child will finish the battle with Belial, the Adversary who banished Yahweh to CY30-CY30B thousands of years earlier and has kept the Earth under his dark cloud since.<br />Or at least that is the story that keeps playing in Asher's head as he is kept in a frozen state awaiting a new pancreas to replace the one that was injured in the jet crash that killed Rybys upon their return to Earth. Meanwhile, her child Emmanuel, who survived the crash but with brain damage, lives with Tate and attends a special education school with Zina, a girl who seems to know much about Emmanuel and his place in the cosmos.<br />Welcome to the strange, strange world of latter day Philip K. Dick. The science-fiction author, who specialized in surreal settings and complex puzzles concerning identity, questioned the cosmos as only he could in his final trio of novels of which the Divine Invasion is the middle entry. The novels were inspired by an instance in 1974 in which Dick alleged that a transcendental being briefly possessed him.<br />For a project inspired by such an absurd episode, the Divine Invasion has a tight, highly coherent theological underlining. Dick shows a remarkable understanding of Gnostic principles, with Asher, Fox, Rybys, Tate, Emmanuel, and Zina each representing an important component of the Christian cosmic order. Although Dick is as reader-friendly as possible (he makes no presumptions about readers' foreknowledge of these concepts), one will have to be patient as he carefully unveils andexplains his characters' significance, shifting surface realities and using non-linear story telling. If you can deal with that, you will be treated to a highly imaginative and highly intelligent philosophical novel. The Divine Invasion is another instance in which the term mad genius perfectly applies to Dick.	2003-12-29
US	44868072	R1BP6QCPX99JRJ	0380973634	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	3	214	268	N	N	An entertaining but not overly memorable fantasy novel	In the field of Science-Fiction/Fantasy, there is no greater accomplishment than creating a unique and intriguing universe. Although well-written books, The Hobbit and Foundation are classics less for perfect prose than for the creatures, landscapes and societies they introduced. The appeal of the universe ranges outside books, though. It is why Attack of the Clones grossed millions on its opening day and why a lot of people know more about Marvel Comics than they do about any foreign country.<br />Neverwhere by Neil Gaiman is a pretty unmistakable attempt at creating a universe. The novel was Gaiman's first major project after finishing the acclaimed Sandman comic series (which could be described as his first universe, but is more of an amalgamation of Biblical scripture, Gaelic and other folk tales and the larger world of DC Comics). Because of Sandman's success, Gaiman is sometimes considered a new Tolkien or Asimov, but he fails to reach his potential on Neverwhere because, despite his ambition, his universe-creating powers at not at a prime.<br />The universe of this novel is London Below, a dark and outlandish world existing beneath the UK's sprawling capital. It is inhabited by a feudal aristocracy, lonesome warriors and a religious cult that talks to rats. After two ruthless mercenaries slaughter one of London Below's most prominent families, the only survivor, a young woman named Door (for her ability to open mystic gates), escapes to London Above, where reluctant yuppie Richard Mayhew takes her in. Joined by the mordant Marquis de Carabas and a grim female bodyguard called (get this) Hunter, Richard and Door journey through London Below to find-out who ordered the deaths of Door's family and why.<br />Gaiman is an outstanding writer who eases readers into the strangeness of London Below and keeps them reading with intrigue that unfolds at just the right pace. I was must admit I was entertained while reading the book, but I doubt it is one that will stay with me for long.<br />This is for two reasons. The first is that Gaiman is apparently used to pencillers supplying the visuals to his stories. The descriptions of London Below were never vivid or colorful enough to leave an overly memorable picture in my mind. The second is that Gaiman fails to completely develop London Below. We never fully learn how this society functions, what separated it from London Above and how its strange customs came to be. Perhaps Gaiman was considering a sequel that would explain such, but still Neverwhere does not lay enough groundwork for readers to fully connect to this universe.<br />Neverwhere is smartly written and highly entertaining, but for works such as this the creation of a memorable universe is the deciding factor and it falls short on that criteria. Gaiman's best post-Sandman work will probably be another project.	2003-12-29
US	44868072	R1MBIPOTGOUDOW	156389016X	479375672	The Sandman Library, Volume 3: Dream Country	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Must-read Sandman short stories	The earliest two Sandman collections are good but the third, Dream Country, is great. The book features four single-issue stories in which the saga's title character, the mystical king of dreams, moves to the background (he is not even in one tale). His preeminence will not be missed, however because one cannot read stories this smart, imaginative, creepy and all around superb and feel that anything is lacking.<br />The first story is &quot;Calliope,\\" in which a one-hit novelist enslaves an actual muse and becomes as productive and popular as Stephen King. The author is not a cruel person, but he cannot set her free if he wants his flow of ideas to continue. Gaiman provides a thoroughly creepy dissertation on the madness of writers and Kelly Jones' darkly astounding drawings of attics, faces and shadows perfectly complements the tale.<br />The second is &quot;Dream of a Thousand Cats,&quot; in which a feline prophetess shares her vision of a cat-ruled world; one that is open to her brethren if they only believe. Gaiman creates a religious outlook perfect for these slinky, self-satisfied animals and, just as in &quot;Calliope,&quot; Jones' art is a major asset. Personality and mystique are translated wonderfully in his cat eyes and cat body language. This is Dream Country's best story and one of the best issues of a comic book series I have ever read.<br />The third, &quot;A Midsummer Night's Dream,&quot; famously won the World Fantasy Award for best short story, the first and only time a comic book has done so. In that tale, Shakespeare and his troupe perform the title play in front of the fairy creatures it is based upon. It is a wonderful parody/tribute to the renowned playwright.<br />The fourth, &quot;Facade,&quot; is one of two times the use of a superhero in a Sandman story works (The other is the story acrh The Kindly Ones, which practically stars Lyta Hall, formerly The Fury). The hero is Element Girl, a sidekick to Metamorpho who vanished in the late 1960swithout much notice. &quot;Facade&quot; tells of how her super-powers turned on her, how she became a tormented agoraphobe and how she finally found release.<br />Dream Country is Sandman at its best; an intelligent and unique series that not only represents comic books at their best, but speculative fiction in general. I cannot recommend this volume more highly.	2003-12-29
US	44868072	R1E28SIQM198WQ	1563891050	632343866	6: Sandman, The: Fables & Reflections - Book VI	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Sandman's uneven tour of history	One of many things that separated Neil Gaiman's Sandman from other comic book characters is that the foreboding but likable king of dreams has existed since the beginning of time and is supposed to be an archetype common to all cultures. Gaiman was free to visit any time and place he wanted to. However, he set all of Sandman's long story arches in the present. Tales from ancient Rome or Elizabethan England were limited to single issue stories bordering bigger epics. Fables and Reflections, placed sixth in the Sandman library, collects most of these.<br />Another thing that separates Fables from other Sandman volumes is that it is a hodgepodge. These stories are from different points in the series' development and are collected here only because there is no other place for them. Due to this, Fables and Reflections is hit-or-miss. It contains some of Sandman's best moments and some of its worst.<br />The collection starts off on a high note \\"Three Septembers and a January.\\" The story shows the role of Sandman's family in the life of Joshua Norton, a San Francisco man who declared himself emporer of the United States in 1859. The story features terribly underdeveloped versions of Sandman's family (Despair talks like some Spiderman villain) but Gaiman's treatment of Norton (a real life person) is funny, heartfelt and wholly entertaining.<br />In the next story, \\"Thermidor,\\" Sandman hires Johanna Constantine, an ancestor of John Constantine of the DC series Hellblazer, for a rescue mission during Revolution-era France. Sandman's occasional overlapping into other DC series is usually awkward and this is no exception.<br />After that is \\"The Hunt,\\" in which an old man annoys his teenage granddaughter (and readers) with a banal fairy tale about a savage who finds one of Sandman's lost books.<br />Next is \\"August,\\" in which Sandman instructs the Roman emperor, Caesar Augustus, to spend a day disguised as a beggar. This story does not have the depth Gaiman obviously intended for it.<br />The duds keep coming with \\"Soft Places,\\" in which explorer Marco Polo finds a desert oasis where space, time and reality loose their meanings. The tale crumples into postmodern mush.<br />Fables picks up again with \\"Song of Orpheus,\\" which positions the Sandman mythos in ancient Greece for a haunting retelling of the myth of Orpheus.<br />Fables' sole present day story, \\"Parliament of Rooks,\\" is another winner. The tale sheds light of three denizens of Sandman's realm: the sadistic Cain, the stuttering Abel and the reclusive Eve, all of whom may or may not be the actual Biblical figures (as the story says, \\"the mystery endures, not the explanation\\"). Each character in the dream realm is half deeply symbolic specter and half twisted Disney character. In this story, Gaiman maximizes both their poignancy and their comedic value.<br />The last story is \\"Ramadan,\\" in which a king of ancient Baghdad becomes bored with riches, sex and opulence and considers making a deal with Sandman. This issue is justly considered one of the series' best. Gaiman's ability to assimilate the story-telling traditions of other cultures is always amazing and the illustrator's cities and castles are gorgeous. Add in lush computerized coloring and you have an extraordinary comic book.<br />Because of its inconsistency, Fables and Reflections is a low point in the Sandman library (most volumes are wholly excellent). Yet some of these tales represent Sandman at its best so, for true aficionados, Fables and Reflections is a reluctant must.for it.<br />The duds keep coming with \\"Soft Places,\\" in which explorer Marco Polo finds a desert oasis where space, time and reality loose their meanings. The tale crumples into postmodern mush.<br />Fables picks up again with \\"Song of Orpheus,\\" which positions the Sandman mythos in ancient Greece for a haunting retelling of the myth of Orpheus.<br />Fables' sole present day story, \\"Parliament of Rooks,\\" is another winner. The tale sheds light of three denizens of Sandman's realm: the sadistic Cain, the stuttering Abel and the reclusive Eve, all of whom may or may not be the actual Biblical figures (as the story says, \\"the mystery endures, not the explanation\\"). Each character in the dream realm is half deeply symbolic specter and half twisted Disney character. In this story, Gaiman maximizes both their poignancy and their comedic value.<br />The last story is \\"Ramadan,\\" in which a king of ancient Baghdad becomes bored with riches, sex and opulence and considers making a deal with Sandman. This issue is justly considered one of the series' best. Gaiman's ability to assimilate the story-telling traditions of other cultures is always amazing and the illustrator's cities and castles are gorgeous. Add in lush computerized coloring and you have an extraordinary comic book.<br />Because of its inconsistency, Fables and Reflections is a low point in the Sandman library (most volumes are wholly excellent). Yet some of these tales represent Sandman at its best so, for true aficionados, Fables and Reflections is a reluctant must.	2003-12-29
US	44868072	R33X83I7N5N2XJ	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Another excellent O'Brien work	Throughout most of his first twenty years of writing, Tim O'Brien used fiction to come to grips with his experiences in the Vietnam War. In his 1994 novel, In the Lake of the Woods, O'Brien does not exactly shift his focus (readers would have to wait until 1998's Tomcat in Love for that) but he does widen his scope. Yes, the story's protagonist, failed politician John Wade, is a Vietnam veteran. However, the novel, describing the mysterious disappearance of Wade's wife after his landslide loss in a Senatorial race, is about more than the war and its ghosts (although both are certainly addressed). In the Lake of the Woods is also about the addictive nature of merit; America's destructive relationship with its most ambitious sons and all that can go wrong in the process of healing. It is a bold and brainy book unafraid to dig deep into the American psyche. It is also one that shows O'Brien's knack for readjusting the conventions of fiction. Chapters entitled &quot;Hypothesis,&quot; narrate possible explanations of Kathy Wade's disappearance while ones labeled &quot;Evidence&quot; consist of quotes elaborating on John's mindset, some from friends and family and others from existent sources as diverse as court testimony from those involved in the Mai Lai massacre and guidebooks to Wade's childhood hobby, magic tricks. In the Lake of the Woods shows O'Brien continuing to flex his muscles and show why he is one of today's writers most worth reading.	2003-09-22
US	44868072	R3W1KIW89GCZCR	0449213013	750649906	Earth Abides	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A different kind of post-apocalyptic novel	Earth Abides by George Stewart is one of many post-apocalyptic novels written during the height of the Cold War. However it is quieter and more introspective than most of its peers, something made evident by the manor of disaster that devastates mankind in the novel. Instead of a nuclear inferno, a viral plague almost eradicates humanity. Isherwood &quot;Ish&quot; Williams is trapped in an isolated cabin recovering from a snakebite when the epidemic is unleashed. When he heals and ventures outward, he discovers the near extinction of his species and begins a search for others who immune to the disease.<br />That section is interesting but Earth Abides becomes a truly outstanding novel when Ish discovers others and they found a new society. Stewart takes a sociological approach to this development. He gives a fascinating account of a community completely isolated from other communities and a generation living in a Garden-of-Eden-state, completely isolated from its own past. One of the novel's best moments occurs when an untrustworthy visitor comes to the area and Ish and the other elders must decide what action to take. Their decision will surprise you. Both in the post-apocalyptic genre and the field of science fiction in general, Earth Abides is a gem.	2003-08-31
US	44868072	R5I0SMU5LR2N4	0930289595	670576164	The Sandman Library, Volume 2: The Doll's House	Books	3	28	36	N	N	The rougher, earlier Sandman	The Sandman of the late eighties was not quite the majestic, surreal series that became the most celebrated comic book of the 1990s. Instead, it was an odd mixture of horror, fantasy and typical DC fare. They were loaded with potential but the early issues of Sandman seem rough and awkward compared to the brilliant material of a few years hence.<br />The Doll's House, Sandman's second volume, presents Neil Gaiman's first attempt at a large-scale story arc (The series' first eight issues, collected in Preludes and Nocturnes, were interconnected but were, for the most part, individual episodes). Like most Sandman story arcs, The Doll's House is quite multifaceted. Later, Gaiman would master the art of unfolding intricate story arcs with masterful precision, but on The Doll's House, he has yet to reach his peak. Thus, this is not a great story arc but a cumbersome one that has occasional moments of greatness.<br />It is difficult to recap the plot of The Doll's House, as it is a messy one that slowly unveils itself as the story moves along. The least one must know before delving into any Sandman volume is that the series focuses on the &quot;realm of dreams,&quot; and its ruler, Morpheus, a God-like being with the attitude of a morose 20-something. The Doll's House finds the dream king tracking down several inhabitants of his dominion who fled during the decades he was imprisoned by a sorcerer (see Preludes and Nocturnes) and also dealing with a &quot;dream vortex&quot; that has manifested itself in a punk-ish young woman named Rose Walker. Rose is searching for her lost brother, Jed, who is locked in the cellar of his abusive aunt and uncle. Given his connection to the dream vortex, it is no coincidence that Jed is experiencing strange dreams involving The Fury and The Silver Scarab of the superhero team, Infinity Inc.<br />Although the larger story of The Doll's House does not quite succeed, two episodes that stand somewhat independently of it do. One is &quot;Collectors,&quot; in which Rose's search somehow brings her to a trade convention for serial killers. This tale is ingenious; a horror story that is somehow funny, terrifying and wholly original at the same time. The other is the prelude, &quot;Tales in the Sand,&quot; in which an African tribesman indoctrinates his grandson into manhood by telling him the legend a queen and her tragic love affair with Morpheus. This chapter first demonstrated Gaiman's appreciation of indigenous folklore and his remarkable ability to weave it into the Sandman mythos. It is moments like these in which one can see Sandman shaping into something wonderful. However, when the focus is on the Walker siblings, the missing denizens of the dream world, a couple of obscure superheroes and the confusing connections between them, The Doll's House is a frustrating read at best.	2003-08-31
US	44868072	R3HFJWLQJXVJCG	1563892057	757601286	Sandman, The: The Kindly Ones - Book IX	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Sandman's grand finale	Although it is actually its second-to-last story arc, The Kindly Ones is, for all intents and purposes, the climax of Sandman, Neil Gaiman's acclaimed fantasy comic book starring Morpheus, a glum, superhuman entity who rules over the realm of dreams (The subsequent The Wake is like a long epilogue). While no previous Sandman story arc seemed like a continuation of a preceding one, The Kindly Ones is a meta-sequel of sorts that features characters and plot threads from Preludes and Nocturnes, The Doll's House, Season of Mists, A Game of You and Brief Lives. Likewise, new readers should best begin with one of the aforementioned volumes but those who have already devoured two of three of the preceding Sandman story arcs, will delight in this excellent conclusion.<br />The Kindly Ones features sub plots galore. But the main story concerns the abduction of three-year old Daniel Hall. Daniel is the child of Lyta and the late Hector Hall, who as The Fury and The Silver Scarab, respectively, were part of the superhero team Infinity Inc. In a series of events too complicated to recount here (see The Doll's House), the Halls were swept-up into the Dream World for most of Lyta's pregnancy. Because of this, Morpheus considers Daniel &quot;his&quot; and when the child is kidnapped, Lyta believes the Dream King the culprit. After the real captors trick her into believing that Daniel has been killed, Lyta seeks out the Kindly Ones, avenging spirits who torment and slay those who have killed their kin. Because he committed the mercy killing of his own son (see Brief Lives), Morpheus has little defense against the Kindly Ones as they ravage through the dream world.<br />Meanwhile, Nuala, a faerie princess who was made a &quot;gift&quot; to Morpheus (see Season of Mists) reluctantly returns to her homeland; Delirium, Morpheus' loopy kid sister who governs the realm of insanity, searches for her lost pet dog; Lucifer, who renounced the throne of Hell (also in Season of Mists), opens an LA nightclub and Rose Walker, the young American woman who was once a &quot;dream vortex&quot; (see The Doll's House) trots across the Atlantic.<br />One can surely deduce from the above recap that The Kindly Ones is a sprawling and ambitious opus (at 13 issues it is the longest Sandman story arc). And it works. Gaiman masterfully weaves together each facet of the tale, leading to a conclusion that does not disappoint. Marc Hempel's super-cartoony art is controversial among Sandman fans, but he has won me over. His images are bright, alluring and strangely conducive to the matter-of-fact manor in which Gaiman tells of fantastic creatures and events. The Kindly Ones was obviously meant to be the grand finale that capstones the Sandman experience and it succeeds on every level.	2003-08-31
US	44868072	R1Q0DWDSS68IH8	1563892790	272440567	Sandman, The: The Wake - Book X	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Sandman's long epilogue	Throughout the course of his acclaimed comic book saga, Sandman, Neil Gaiman always worked at his own pace. Thus, it is no surprise that the falling action that follows The Kindly Ones, the grand finale of the series, should last six issues and be a story arc onto itself. No matter, though. Gaiman possesses an immaculate sense of precision and rarely did any part of his saga stretch on longer than it had to. With The Wake, Sandman's long epilogue, Gaiman continues to dazzle readers with his beautifully surreal people and places and his inspiring deliberations on life, death, family and the significance of storytelling.<br />Sandman features a family of Greek God-like entities called The Endless, each of which have some sort of responsibility in regulating the conscious experience of mortals. In The Wake, the remaining members of the clan, Destiny, Death, Desire, Despair and Delirium hold a wake and funeral for Dream (Sandman's protagonist more often than not), who died in The Kindly Ones. Almost every character that played a part in the series attends. Meanwhile, Daniel, the child who inherited the mantle of the Dream King, prepares to meet his new family. There is a certain grace, warmth and thoroughness with which Gaiman addresses death, mourning and the welcoming of a new family member that makes this tale sure to cause readers to reflect on his or her own experiences with the aforesaid. Michael Zulli is the most grand and majestic illustrator to ever grace the pages of Sandman and his style certainly works for the story. Truly, the memorial services for Dream make-up one of the best pieces of the Sandman saga.<br />That story only lasts for first three issues, though. The remaining three of this volume are single-issue stories. &quot;Sunday Morning&quot; revisits one of the series' most interesting characters, the immortal Hob Gadling. In &quot;Exiles&quot; a banished Chinese wise man embarks on a strange path that leads into Dream's realm. The issue, which is told in Analect-ish verse, has little to do with the greater story, yet it is always delightful to see Gaiman mesh Sandman with indigenous story-telling traditions. &quot;The Tempest,&quot; the series' final issue, revisits William Shakespeare, whose employment under Dream was chronicled in early issues. This tale elaborates on the dream king's need of the dramatist as he writes his final play. The Kindly Ones was Sandman's riveting climax and the first three issues of The Wake are the place to say goodbye to the main characters, but as far as giving the final word on what is perhaps the most important theme of Sandman, the importance of stories and their telling, &quot;The Tempest&quot; is its true conclusion.	2003-08-31
US	44868072	R3LKHR6H90X15	0679734465	131170192	Valis	Books	4	65	77	N	N	PDK at his strangest	Before this, he had written about a robot-hunter who suspects he may be a robot himself and a world in which people age in reverse, but Valis is the point where Philip K. Dick really got weird. Based on a supposed experience of the author himself, Valis is the story of Horselover Fat, a man who God (or some being of the sort) contacted using a pinkish ray of light. Fat is a 60s burnout trying to survive in the 70s and this encounter encourages him to write an exegesis, explaining the workings of the universe which apparently include a race of three-eyed creatures and an elaborate system of holograms. Fat is egged on by a group of friends including the Catholic David, the cynical Kevin, the cancer-ridden Sherri and a science fiction named Philip K. Dick, who freely admits he is also Horselover Fat (It will almost make sense after you have read it). Valis is part postmodern experiment, part philosophical treatise and even part science-fiction novel. For people who like their literature inventive, pensive and consciously bizarre (and that is how most Dick fans like their literature), Valis is sure to be a winner.	2003-08-31
US	44868072	R25PHDULNTBALZ	0684833395	458864358	Catch-22	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Heller has a wit that can't be beat	With good reason, Catch-22 is a smart alleck classic. Joseph Heller munches-up one of our most sacred institutions, the military and spits it back into faces. Through the eyes of Yossarian, the World War II bombardier who wants nothing more than to not die, Heller exposes all that is kitschy, absurd and soul-numbing about not just the US army but about the high-minded American attitude in general. Indeed, this is probably less a novel about warfare, as it is a novel that comments on all American extremes including extreme pride, extreme capitalism and extreme bureaucracy. Heller may be a gadfly and he may be too cute at times (my only significant complaint about his style) but it is undeniable that he often has a point. It is easy to commiserate with Yossarian. Why is the numbskull who commands his regiment any less of an enemy than the numbskull who commands the one on the other side when both could get him killed? What do things like pride and country matter to someone who is dead? What does it all mean in the end? Those are questions for the reader to answer, but it is pretty certain that there is a passage somewhere in Catch-22 that would take a pretty good shot at his or her resolution.	2003-08-21
US	44868072	R2M69MXNR8LE07	0971394245	631609675	Abuse Your Illusions: The Disinformation Guide to Media Mirages and Establishment Lies (Disinformation Guides)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Third Disinfo collection is a mixed bag	They're back... Disinformation Press continues its crusade against cooperate media bias and establishment deceit in Abuse Your Illusions, its third collection of expos&eacute;s. Like its predecessors, the fairly-interesting You Are Being Lied To and the absolute-must read Everything You Know Is Wrong, Abuse Your Illusions gathers a plethora of experts, insiders, academics and journalists unafraid to ask the tough questions on everything from the war on terror to the Virgin of Medjugorje.<br />At its best, Abuse Your Illusions offers some of the best investigative reporting available. Intelligence Online's Wayne Madsen explores the 2001 death of leading microbiologist, Don Wiley, finding what is almost certainly cover-up. Religion journalist, Richard Abanes, exposes a disgusting strain of racism in the history of Mormonism. The Sunshine Project, a think-tank opposing the development of chemical weapons, uncovers the Pentagon's treaty-breaking research into germ warfare. And investigative reporter, Diane Petryk-Bloom examines the self-serving abuses of power of child protection agencies and the terrible harm it is causing families. It would be worthwhile for every parent in America to read Petryk-Bloom's alarming piece.<br />But Abuse Your Illusions' crown jewel is a tally of new revelations, unanswered questions and stories that do not add up concerning the September 11th attacks, compiled by Russ Kick, the editor of this volume and its forerunners. From the missing videos of the Pentagon collision to the White House's efforts to block a Congressional investigation into the attacks to the unlikely emergence of a hijacker's luggage and its even more unlikely contents, Kick's facts will make the reader seriously question the official version of the tragedy. It is articles like this that make Disinformation's collections so valuable.<br />Unfortunately not all articles are as hard-hitting and on-target as the aforementioned. In fact, out of all of the Disinfo volumes, Abuse Your Illusions makes the most missteps.<br />Many of the pieces are obvious, trivial or not-fully-substantiated. Dissident historian, Howard Zinn's grisly accounts of innocent causalities in the US military campaign in Afghanistan are certainly affecting, but would only be shocking to someone to whom warfare is a completely alien concept. Investigative reporter, Jim Hougan's defense of the theory that investigation into a Democratic call-girl ring begat Watergate states nothing more than such a theory is possible. And alternative journalist, Paul Krassner's article theorizing that Sirhan Sirhan and Charles Manson were brain-washed by scientologists screams crack pot.<br />Another mistake is the inclusion of articles that seem, ironically enough, biased. Articles concerning media controversies, written by people involved, seem like axe-grinding sessions. Shouldn't the most accurate and unbiased views on CNN's Operation Tailwind story, the leaking of the Pentagon Papers and James Bacque's research pointing to Allies mistreatment of German POWs in World War II be written by people other than those who have much at stake in them?<br />There are many instances in Abuse Your Illusions in which Disinformation proves itself a relevant and enlightening institute. But one should look to the previous two volumes to see the group at its best before reading this utterly uneven collection.	2003-08-21
US	44868072	R2QQ8LOBUBHUTJ	1563890410	772511764	The Sandman; vol. 4: Season of Mists	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A major step for Sandman	It is appropriate that Season of Mists opens with the first round-table meeting of the Endless, the title character's family who all rule over some \\"realm\\" of conscious experience. This story arch marks the point where Sandman went from being a super-smart horror series to a Middle Earth for the alternarock generation. No more would scary monsters and gruesome imagery be the defining features of Neil Gaiman's adult-orientated fantasy comic book. Instead ambiguously defined gods and semi-gods, such as the Endless, and their (mis)adventures in the modern world would be the driving force behind Sandman. This type of literature would become Gaiman's specialty and was probably always his primary interest. Likewise Season of Mists sees Gaiman write with greater ease and elegance than ever before, making this the best piece of the Sandman saga thus far.<br />In Season of Mists, Sandman AKA Dream AKA Morpheus, the series' main character and the member of the Endless who controls the realm of dreams, ventures into Hell to free a former lover he condemned there thousands of years ago. When he arrives, he finds Lucifer preparing to abandon his post, evicting all of the damned and demons and locking the gates. He gives the key to Hell to Morpheus. Afterwards, a horde of deities, from Anubis to Odin, storm Morpheus' realm, called \\"the Dreaming,\\" wanting to bargain for the key.<br />Gaiman's examination of the mythologies and religions of mankind is somehow admiring, thought-provoking and humorous at the same time. His use of characterization is marvelous and his sense of suspense is always second to none. Meanwhile, Mike Dringenberg, the artist of most the saga, creates marvels for the eyes with his portrayals of surreal settings such as Hell and the Dreaming. Although latter story archs would surpass it, Seasons of the Mist was a bold new step for Sandman and showed many of the traits that made it such a great series.	2003-07-14
US	44868072	R3NODQEN10UCJF	1563891387	611047719	The Brief Lives (Sandman)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The best Sandman story arch	Each story arch of Sandman, Neil Gaiman's adult-orientated comic book starring Morpheus, an amalgamation of morose twenty-something and Greek God, is excellent. But Brief Lives, in which Morpheus' loopy kid sister, Delirium drags him on a quest to find their long-lost brother, Destruction, may be the series' pinnacle.<br />This is for several reasons. Firstly, the story brings the resolution of the series' biggest mystery: the identity of the lost sibling in Morpheus' family (a group of mystic beings called the The Endless who all rule over some \\"realm\\" of consciousness) and his reason for disappearing. Yet, the collective little scenes in each Sandman story arch are always just as important as the underlining storyline itself and Brief Lives has many of the series' best little scenes: Delirium (one of Gaiman's most unforgettable characters) trying to remember the proper name of eye-gunk; Barnabas, Destruction's talking dog, slamming his paintings and poetry; Mervyn, a pumpkin-headed nightmare of Morpheus' creation, explaining why his boss is a flake.<br />Another reason why this may be the definitive best Sandman volume is that Jill Thompson may be the definitive Sandman artist. Thompson's simple, cartoon-ish pictures and her flair for telling facial expressions have a way of tenderly assisting the story without letting overly detailed imagery get in the way (a major problem in the Jim Lee era of comics).<br />But the best reason why this is the best Sandman story arch is what is at the heart of the story. Brief Lives is, godlike entities and talking animals aside, a simple, touching story of love and family. There is something about Delirium's naïve attempt to make The Endless \\"one big happy family again\\" and the tenderness and grace by which Gaiman writes it that makes Brief Lives an exceptional part of an exceptional series.	2003-07-14
US	44868072	RQ63Y6UX2ZTLY	1563890119	763187671	The Sandman Vol. 1: Preludes and Nocturnes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Sandman gets off to a great start	Preludes and Nocturnes collects the first eight issues of Sandman, Neil Gaiman's acclaimed adult orientated comic book series about a morose mystic entity who controls the \\"realm of dreams.\\" In its earliest inception, Sandman was hardly the grand, Tolkien-ish neo-myth into which it would blossom. Instead, it was a smart, imaginative and genuinely scary horror series that obviously had the potential for greatness.<br />In Preludes and Nocturnes, the title character, also called Morpheus or Dream, is captured by a sorcerer and imprisoned for more than seventy years. After breaking free, he searches for tools that were taken from him by his captors: a helmet, a ruby and a pouch of sand, all of which were stolen and/or traded away long ago. During the quest, Morpheus encounters other DC characters such as supernatural con-man, John Castatine; the Justice League's resident escape artist, Scott Free and the demented, skull-faced villain, Dr. Destiny.<br />In these issues, Sandman is a horror series. Likewise, the standard issue is a single story (although each makes-up a part of an underlining storyline involving Morpheus' lost tools) that has some chilling ending awaiting one of its characters. While Gaiman's stories are rarely clich&eacute;d and always frightening (it is hard to imagine anything more frightening than issue six, in which Dr. Destiny uses Morpheus' ruby to force out the dark sides of an unsuspecting group of diner patrons), the prerequisites (gruesome imagery, bloody deaths, raving maniacs) sometimes seem forced. Similarly awkward is the inclusion of outside DC characters. The series is at its most haunting when it involves actual beliefs and myths of mankind. It gains a degree of campiness when characters like Scott Free are involved.<br />Despite these minor flaws, Preludes and Nocturnes has a lot of good things going for it. The art is remarkable; the stories are unpredictable and, as stated earlier, original and wholly frightening; and Gaiman shows amastery of characterization and the little details that bring it out. All in all, no one can say Sandman did not get off to a great start.	2003-07-14
US	44868072	RWZ81WKJK2E50	0060997028	542955149	Life Is Elsewhere	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent Pre-exile Kundera	1969's Life is Elsewhere is a fine example of pre-exile Milan Kundera. The Kundera of this era was a black sheep of the Czechoslovakian Communist Party, kicked-out once in 1950 and perennially on the verge of being ousted again for his questioning, free-thinking nature. Thus, at this time, Kundera was more of a gadfly of the Party and its ambitions to transform not only government but artistic expression and day-to-day life, rather than the embittered, yet sensitive, critic he was after the Party did cast him out and forced him into exile.<br />Life is Elsewhere is story of Jaromil, a young, Czech poet growing-up in the shadow the Russian Revelation and the initial spread of communism. Throughout the novel, Jaromil adopts several roles. He is the son of a loving, but overbearing mother. He is the lover of two women, first a university student known as the \\"stone maiden\\" and latter a bubbly, working class red-head (Kundera has always shown an aversion to naming his characters). He is a young communist, who applies Marxist ideals to all his ambitions. And he is an artist who feels \\"elected\\" to write poetry. The driving force behind this novel is the ways in which these roles (son, lover, communist and poet) conflict. How does he keep his mother from becoming jealous of his girlfriends? How does he tailor his work to Marxist ideas of art and beauty? How does he react when his mother and her family detest his joining the Party? A wealth of such situations examines, with remarkable depth and precision, the strange predicaments involved in coming of age in such an epoch.<br />The only flaw of Life is Elsewhere is that the more art-sy aspects of Kundera's writing have not quite developed. While devices such as historical anecdotes and the narration of dreams and fantasies made his latter novels even more wonderful, their presence in this particular work seems intrusive and awkward. Fortunately, these devices have only a small presence in Life is Elsewhere. For the most part, this is an extraordinary, idea-filled novel that thoroughly explores some captivating concepts.	2003-07-01
US	44868072	R1050AVCE5NE08	0966410076	739549691	You Are Being Lied To: The Disinformation Guide to Media Distortion, Historical Whitewashes and Cultural Myths	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Disinformation dissolves consensus reality	You Are Being Lied To, the first volume from alternative media company, Disinformation, goes to great lengths to prove exactly what its title spells out. Editor, Russ Kick amassed more than sixty articles, columns and interviews, connected solely by an opposition to some widely accepted perception. Alternative journalists share space with Pulitzer-winners, national experts with grumbling dissenters and dissident giants such Chomsky and Zinn with relative upstarts. The only standard for inclusion seems to be a new perspective or a thick folder of quieted information.<br />At its best, You Are Being Lied To, is profoundly eye-opening. Veteran investigative journalist, Sydney Schanbergs review of John McCains questionable attempts to keep secret information on POWs (including McCain himself) will surely alter views on the man who ran the \\"Straight Talk Express.\\" An article by Patrick Moore, a founding member of Green Peace, unmasks the sensationalism and senselessness found in today's environmental movement. An excerpt from a work by turn-of-the century, religious dissenter, MM Mangasarian, outlines a credible argument against the historicalness of Jesus. A fact sheet complied by drug policy commentator, Paul Armentano catches US drug czars telling blatant lies. And a catalog of missing evidence in some of the most important scandals in US history, collected by conspiracy theorist, Jim Marrs, is downright frightening.<br />You Are Being Lied To occasionally sways from its course, though. Kick sometimes mistakes an unpopular opinion with an uncovered truth. Meta-physicist, Peter Russells redefinition of consciousness and sex columnist, David Steinberg's perspective on the photographing of undressed children are interesting but hardly uncover any secrets. Another flaw is the inclusion of articles that merely advertise the alternative press. Examples include interviews with myth-buster, Phillip Jenkins, explaining his methods and paleopsychologist, Howard Bloom in which the interviewer candidly christens Bloom the next revolutionary thinker. Articles in which alternative writers toast one another take away from the book's sense of nonpartisanship.<br />Surely some of its parts are unnecessary, but as a whole, You Are Being Lied accomplishes its task. It presents enough solid evidence, concerning interest group sensationalism, historical inaccuracies, media distortions and government conspiracies to convince you that yes, you are being lied to. In fact, you are being lied to at every moment and from every direction.	2003-05-28
US	44868072	R365KPBQ6CLRGK	0971394202	70373676	Everything You Know Is Wrong: The Disinformation Guide to Secrets and Lies	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Eye-opening!	Be forewarned. This book may dramatically alter your perceptions of the world around you. In terms of consistently presenting solid, shocking information that counters a wide variety of widely accepted beliefs, Everything You Know is Wrong, Disinformation Press's second collection of expos&eacute;s, far surpasses its first, You Are Being Lied To. Heck, it surpasses every other book of its kind for that matter. Like its predecessor, Everything You Know Is Wrong amasses a diverse selection of experts, insiders, academics and journalists, all of whom have some sort of truth to reveal. Many of their revelations will drop jaws. Few readers will think the same of the tragedies after reading attorney, David T. Hardy's revelations about Waco; volume editor Russ Kick's about Columbine and private investigator, Brad Shellady's on Henry Lee Lucas' supposed killing spree. Equally surprising are the volume's expos&eacute;s concerning everyday happenings such as sociologist, Mike A. Males' data revelating that today's teens are actually less violent than the baby boomers in their youth and teacher turned educational renegade, John Taylor Gatto's article exposing the roots of forced schooling in the business elite's design for a more compliant population.<br />Of course, not every article in Everything You Know Is Wrong is so imperative. The volume makes the same mistake as You Are Being Lied To (although to a lesser extent) in including articles that present unpopular opinions, rather than uncovered secrets. Sex columnist, Tristan Taormino's criticism of monogamy and dissenting psychiatrist, Thomas Szaz's essay comparing metal illness to phlogiston are misplaced. Still, Everything You Know Is Wrong achieves its desired effect. Once a reader has finished this thought-provoking collection, he or she is sure to question just about all of his or her schemas and never again trust consensus reality.	2003-05-28
US	44868072	RV2XAIYOMB44X	1583224890	746847725	9-11	Books	4	8	16	N	N	Chomsky on 9.11 and the conflicts surrounding it	9-11 is a slim volume that collects interviews with the US's leading dissident thinker, Noam Chomsky, following the attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon. Chomsky's views are what one would expect. He condemns the attacks but notes that hatred of the West caused by the US's disruption of Muslim society should not be ignored. Despite the enormously important new developments, most of this publication's arguments have already been presented in the author's other works concerning the Middle East. Still, this volume stands as a valuable volume in the September 11th library. Chomsky has accurately been called America's conscious and that was a more valuable role than ever in the days following the attacks. 9-11 offers peaceful, sensible ways for the US to lower the threat from the Middle East; examines the concept of terrorism from a view unspoiled by an us-vs-them mentality and unravels many of the myths surrounding Muslim extremists and their motives. Chomsky is one of the US's greatest thinkers and his commentary concerning the September 11th attacks and the continuing conflict of which they are a part should be appreciated.	2003-05-27
US	44868072	R101K88ISPEAWI	0971394202	70373676	Everything You Know Is Wrong: The Disinformation Guide to Secrets and Lies	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Eye-opening!	Be forewarned. This book may dramatically alter your perceptions of the world around you. In terms of consistently presenting solid, shocking information that counters popular belief, Everything You Know is Wrong, Disinformation Press's second collection of exposés, far surpasses its first, You Are Being Lied To (heck, it surpasses any other book of its type for that matter). Like its predecessor, Everything You Know Is Wrong amasses a wide variety of experts, insiders, academics and journalists, who have some sort of truth to reveal. Many of their revelations will drop jaws. Few readers will think of the tragedies in the same way after reading attorney, David T. Hardy's revelations about Waco; volume editor Russ Kick's about Columbine and private investigator, Brad Shellady's on Henry Lee Lucas' supposed killing spree. Equally surprising are the volume's exposés concerning everyday happenings such as nuclear engineer, David Lauchbaum's revelations about US power plants' horrid safety record and teacher turned educational renegade, John Taylor Gatto's articles exposing the roots of forced schooling in the business elite's design for a more compliant population.<br />Of course, not every article in Everything You Know Is Wrong is so imperative. The volume makes the same mistake as You Are Being Lied To (although to a lesser extent) in including articles that present unpopular opinions, rather than uncovered secrets. Sex columnist, Tristan Taormino's criticism of monogamy and dissenting psychiatrist, Thomas Szaz's essay comparing metal illness to phlogiston are misplaced. Still, Everything You Know Is Wrong achieves its desired effect. Once a reader has finished this thought-provoking collection, he or she is sure to question just about all of his or her schemas and never again trust consensus reality.	2003-05-27
US	44868072	R2E1ZD9971DBS7	0140131558	71854538	The New York Trilogy: City of Glass; Ghosts; The Locked Room  (Contemporary American Fiction Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Auster�s darkly delightful, experimental detective series	Paul Auster burst onto the literary scene in the mid-eighties with The New York Trilogy, a series of experimental detective novels (or should I say detective-style novels as only one features an actual detective). In the first installment, City of Glass, a wrong number draws a hermetic novelist into mentally disturbed man's conflict with his religious fanatic father. In the next, Ghosts, a private eye named Blue is hired by a man called White to spy on the isolated Black. In the final episode, The Locked Room, a literary critic searches for a childhood friend who has disappeared, leaving behind a wife and child and a wealth of extraordinary, unpublished fiction. After each tale's somewhat cryptic ending, the truths behind the shady events are still mostly obscure and so is the piece's general meaning. Both of which are especially disappointing given the amount of suspense Auster builds-up. The author is often accused of being clever for clever's sake and is easy to understand why. But if those are your concerns, you are missing what makes these books truly special: atmosphere. Mixing detective noir with postmodern surrealism, Auster paints eerie netherlands that make the reader readily accept the most bizarre circumstances in his fiction. Everything the New York Trilogy lacks in substance, it more than makes up for in style.	2003-05-03
US	44868072	RAAFVXDZSVI5Y	0140077022	981253911	White Noise (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	68	84	N	N	One of the best novels to explore contemporary life	In fifty years, White Noise by Don DeLillo will perhaps explain our almost demented times better than any other novel. The story centers around Jack Gladney, the chairman and founder of [German dictator] Studies at a rural university. He lives with his fourth wife, Babette, two children and two step-children in a labyrinth of junk hauled home from the local[store]. After a toxic waste spill in his neighborhood, Jack is overwhelmed by his fear of [end of life], one problem that no commercial product can solve --- or so he thinks. Throughout the story DeLillo shows almost frightening understanding of contemporary life. Supermarkets are churches; brand names are mantras; Elvis is worthy of academic interest; truth is buried by the endless hum of the (over)information age and the family as an institution struggles to hold on amidst the onslaught of changes, each more absurd than the last. One of the most unabashed and insightful dissections of life at the end of the twentieth century, White Noise is a masterpiece.	2003-05-03
US	44868072	R15H9ISCCQQSMU	0345316509	380323119	Job: A Comedy of Justice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Heinlein vs. Religion	Abundant in traits that make him so enjoyable (fearlessness in facing down sacred institutions, a wry sense of humor) and sparse is habits that sometimes hinder him (preachiness, shallow female characters), Job: A Comedy of Justice is one of Robert A. Heinlein's best novels. Heinlein's protagonist is Alexander Hergensheimer, a minister from an ultra-conservative, theocratic world. After a firewalking ceremony in Polynesia, he finds that he has crossed-over into a parallel universe far less morally stringent than his own. Despite this, he falls in love with one of its denizens, the fiercely independent Margrethe. Soon, Alexander and Margrethe are catapulted from alternate reality to alternate reality, trying to decipher the cosmic joke that has been played on them. Meanwhile, Heinlein explores a spectrum of human eccentricities from blind faith to cultural shock to the chosen's relationship to the heathens. Job is the sci-fi master at his most comedic and insightful.	2003-05-03
US	44868072	R1RYRT2J0YUZJS	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	11	20	N	N	Capitalist Kitsch	Atlas Shrugged is the bulky novel that gave the literary world a dose of objectivism, Any Rand's philosophy expounding the virtues of ascetic self-interest and laize-faire capitalism. A big dose. At over one thousand pages, Atlas Shrugged is one of the longest novels ever written and one of the most redundant. The plot revolves around the struggle between a cast of hardnosed industrialists (Dagny Targart, a dedicated businesswoman who runs her family's railroad empire, despite the fact that her sniveling brother receives all of the credit. Francisco d'Anconida, a charismatic and dynamic millionaire playboy. Hank Reardon, a steel baron of unshakable ethic character) and a faction of progressive business leaders, politicians, intellectuals and other \\"looters,\\" (led by Targart's brother, James) who despise corporate greed, want to increase competition and focus on the \\"human elements\\" of industry. In a seemingly endless series of tricky legal and business dealings, the immaculate brainpower and unwavering dedication of the further group overrides the sneaky, spineless and potentially destructive actions of the further.<br />Atlas Shrugged may have stood as thorough and sensible, if somewhat long-winded, explanation of Ms. Rand's socio-economic ideals, if she had only portrayed her heroes' business sense as unblemished. But no, she had to create a cast of demigods with sculptureesque physical appearances, complete emotional stability and ingenious creativity. After a dozen starry-eyed descriptions of the endless flawlessness of her protagonists and several disdainfully-toned, mud-smearing depictions of her antogonists, her work becomes somewhat hard to swallow. Atlas Shrugged has long been acclaimed as breath-taking philosophical opus and a brilliant treatise on capitalism and egotism. The novel could have been such if it been subjected to a thorough editing and stripped of some of its more outlandish elements. But its utter one-sidedness, endless repetition of ideas and absurd adulation of the hardnosed business leaders make it little more than capitalist kitsch.	2002-09-22
US	44868072	R745GSZVWA10X	0345310020	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Excellent novella	While Gabriel Garcia Marquez shows is impeccable at filling his lengthy novels with a wide variety of important aspects of the human experience, his novellas show that the Columbian master also has a knack for rooting out a single facet of human nature and exploring it in a certain and direct manor. One of his best novellas is undoubtedly 1981's Chronicle of a Death Foretold, in which an entire town is an accessory to murder. The Vicario twins' sense of family pride is brutally wounded when their sister, Angela, is returned home on her wedding night because the groom had discovered that Angela's virginity had already been broken. When their sister identifies a local bachelor named Santiago Nasar as her first lover, the brothers sharpen their knifes for the next morning. As they set out to complete their gruesome task, the twins are not at all secretive of their plans, making references to the forthcoming homicide in friendly banter with their fellow townspeople. Yet none of those with whom they speak carry out any attempt to prevent the slaughter. Some doubt the Vicarios will actually go through with the slaying, some consider such conflicts of honor something not be meddled with by an outsider and some are downright apathetic to the peace of their community and the safety of their neighbor. Mr. Marquez builds a shocking, yet utterly conceivable scenario in which members of a cultured society are given amble opportunity to prevent an appalling evil yet do not even try (One need only remember the 1964 murder of Kitty Genovese in New York City to understand the universality of this subject matter). In less than one hundred and fifty pages, Chronicle of a Death makes the reader rethink his or her assumptions concerning societal decency and community responsibility.	2002-08-01
US	44868072	RAIQ4KNSB2UAJ	0060932147	989693123	The Book of Laughter and Forgetting	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Beautiful and insightful experimental novel	In The Angels, the third part of The Book of Laughter and Forgetting, Milan Kundera criss-crosses the tale of two American girls attempting to impress their teacher by putting a spin on a class presentation with an account of his brief career as an astrologist during his last days in his homeland of Czechoslovakia, two anecdotes that have no relevance to one another, or do they? The goal of this lucid, experimental novel (described as \\"a meditation on existence as seen through the medium of imaginary characters\\") seems to be identifying the hidden coincidences and thematic unities of life itself. To accomplish this task, Mr. Kundera has disregarded the traditional definition of the novel and has composed a narrative that is unified in spirit and themes, rather than in time and place. A new cast of characters is drawn-up for each of the seven parts (with only one who populates two sections) but the same subject matter (laughter, understanding, remembrance, forgetting, spiritual and emotional transcendence) unifies the opus. Meanwhile small dashes of historical anecdotes, personal accounts and philosophical musings are added to further explore the themes. The resulting work is absolutely unique, wholly engaging and remarkably insightful.	2002-07-26
US	44868072	R1AB9EJEZ6AYNM	0316769517	240702285	Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters and Seymour: An Introduction	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Another look at the Glass family	While it took JD Salinger only one work, his immortal classic, The Catcher in the Rye, to thoroughly explore the trials and tribulations of young underachievers, the popular author needed several novellas and short stories to examine the more multifaceted hardships of young overachievers. For the last few years of his publishing career, Mr. Salinger narrated important episodes in the lives of the Glass children, a group of seven gifted siblings, all of whom appeared on a \\"It's a Wise Child,\\" a nationally syndicated radio program that started as a quiz show for kids but soon developed into a forum for precocious youngsters.<br />Two fractions of the Glass story are collected in Raise High the Roof Beam Carpenters and Seymour: An Introduction. In the further, Buddy Glass, the second-to-oldest Glass child, recounts an incident that occurred on the wedding day of his older brother, Seymour (who commits suicide in Mr. Salinger's masterpiece of short fiction, \\"A Perfect Day for Banana Fish,\\" an event that resonates through the  subsequent Glass chronicles) in which he finds himself in a taxi with the hypercritical bridesmaid and her husband, bringing him face-to-face with how ordinary people view his family and his eccentric older brother. In the latter, Buddy ramblingly muses about Seymour's dispositions. Raise High the Roof Beam Carpenters is an insightful look at how the exceptional are treated in a rigid, conformist society and an excellent of example of Mr. Salinger's dazzling ability to conjure singular situations that expose profound, hidden truths about his characters. Seymour: An Introduction, however, is an unfocused, long-winded, apologetic mess. The first section is excellent but the second is woefully unnecessary. Still, Mr. Salinger should be granted applause for exertion alone for each of his attempts to explain these convoluted characters who rarely lend themselves to simple explanations.	2002-07-26
US	44868072	RS0SXSRHAA7JF	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Achingly beautiful	One Hundred Years of Solitude by Gabriel Garcia Marquez is the type of book that once you finish reading, you will want to buy a copy for everyone you know. This tremendous novel is so pressed with humanity that you will suspect that every person you know will be able to relate to some aspect of it. One Hundred Years of Solitude is the story of the Buendia family, a dynasty that inhabits the mythical village of Macondo for ten decades until the last of their line breathes his last breath. The cast of characters continually changes as new Buendias are born, grow up and die. Mr. Marquez invents a singular, mystical air for each of his characters, charging each of their tales with enchantment, wonderment and meaning. In the span of their existences, some of the family seek love, others solitude; some serenity, others uprising; some industry, others intimacy. Regardless of his or her life's pursuit, each member of this family is absolutely unforgettable and very easy to sympathize with. Some novels incorporate a tremendous range of the uniformly important aspects of life. This is certainly one of them.	2002-07-26
US	44868072	R1FT1BYWUC6DLH	0679721037	150142267	Hiroshima	Books	5	57	58	N	N	Stunning	On August 6th, 1945, a bomb with the explosive force of 12,500 tons of dynamite was shot into the heart of the Japanese metropolis of Hiroshima. Not only did the initial blast virtually topple the city, maiming and killing tens of thousands, but the radiation unleashed by the atomic bomb inflicted countless more with radiation poisoning that caused chronic sickness and even more gruesome deaths. Less than a year after the attack, journalist, John Hersey, interviewed six survivors for a special edition of the New Yorker. The issue sparked a sensation, selling out within hours and gathering extensive acclaim from Hersey's peers. The article was sent to members of the Book-of-the-Month club as a selection and was read aloud on special radio broadcasts all across the world.<br />Reading the paperback edition of Mr. Hersey's extensive article, I had little difficulty seeing why it gathered such acclaim. He does not just take readers to the scene of the bombing; he takes them behind the eyes of those affected. Mr. Hersey temporarily disregarded the sociopolitical and moral debate concerning the atomic attack and told a straightforward, compelling and vivid story of human beings coming face to face with mammoth, almost surreal, tragedy. This new addition, featuring an additional chapter that reveals the fates of the six survivors forty years later and describes the social stigma, medical difficulties and psychological and philosophical adjustments involved in being a \\"hibakusha\\" or \\"explosion-effected person\\" only makes this journalistic triumph even better. I highly recommend Hiroshima to anyone interested in atomic warfare, World War II, Japanese culture or those who simply wish to read about the human experience at its most grave and epic.	2002-06-04
US	44868072	R1TMWINKUZTS49	0785101276	603652937	Astonishing X-Men (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Best Age of Apocalypse book	In January of 1995, the writers, artists and editors of Marvels X-men-related books embarked on the Age of Apocalypse storyline, in which, due to a catastrophic time-travel venture of the psychotic mutant, Legion, Professor Xavier is killed several years before he forms the X-men. In the twenty years following Xaviers death, North America, bereft of Xaviers X-mens protection, is conquered by the nefarious super-mutant, Apocalypse, who turns the country into a breeding ground of genetic warfare and survival of the fittest. The resulting comics were some of the most interesting X-books of the 1990s. Readers were given a chance to see how some of their favorite characters would behave under an entire different set of circumstance. Relationships that were once impossible blossomed; characters that were once combative lightweights reached their full potential and the apparent omnipotence of an ultimate evil caused some heroes to succumb to the dark side (Havok, Beast, Cannonball) while it caused some villains to realize the merit of valor and justice (Magneto, Sabretooth, Juggernaut).<br />One of the best series of the Age of Apocalypse was Astonishing X-men, a book featuring the alternate realitys ragtag version of the superhero team, lead by Magneto and his wife, Rogue. A group of X-men, consisting of Rogue, Morph, Blink, Sunfire, Sabretooth and Wild Child discover that Apocalypse's son, Holocaust is planning a massive slaughter of homo sapiens in Indianapolis (apparently all the more important cities had already been eradicated). Scott Lobdell writes a truly touching and harrowing story of heroes embarking on a mission from which they doubt they will return. He surprises readers by displaying novel, but utterly convincing, sides of well-known characters, portraying the prideful Sunfire as a tormented and hateful wildcard, the unstable Rogue as a calm and confident leader and the murderous Sabretooth as a gruff, yet caring and protective, father figure to the teenage Blink. When the books were returned to their usual status, readers were so effected by the AOA versions of these characters that Marvel was besieged with fanmail, pleading that the writers alter characters, such as Rogue and Sabretooth, to better resemble their AOA versions and somehow return characters, such as Morph and Blink, whose regular reality counterparts were deceased. The Age of Apocalypse was an epic, moving and enthralling story arch. Astonishing X-men is one of its very best parts.	2002-05-10
US	44868072	R2X1CIE6X85AGX	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	2	17	28	N	N	There are many better post-apocalyptic novels out there	On the Beach by Nevil Shute is one of many post-apocalyptic novels conceived during the Cold War. The story is not, however, set in one of the countries that was a major figure in the nuclear arms race, but in Australia where, following an atomic armageddon that engulfed most of the rest of the world, a nation awaits the global airstreams to bring upon them the lethal fall-out let loose by massive nuclear detonation. Some turn to alcohol and other vices; some follow their usual routines, denying the inevitable poisoning and some vow to live each remaining moment to its fullest. It is certainly an interesting premise. Sadly, Mr. Shute proves himself unfit to explore it aptly.<br />I was surprised to read that the author had written more than a dozen novels before On the Beach because the book is so amateurish. Unimportant details are given overwhelming emphasis, use of description to color a scene is basically absent, and never is the novel given any noticeable tone. On the Beach would have benefited greatly from a major revision, one that would perhaps add some flavor and depth to it. With so many stronger post-apocalyptic novels still in print (A Canticle for Liebowitz by Walter Miller Jr., Earth Abides by George R. Stuart, The Last Ship by William Brinkley, Alas Babylon by Pat Frank) this monotonous, poorly written book should be disregarded.	2002-05-10
US	44868072	R1MUKOOWQ1N228	0785101268	549404781	Amazing X-Men (X-Men: The Age of Apocalypse Gold Deluxe Edition)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fabian Necieza�s darker AOA book	In January of 1995, the writers, artists and editors of Marvel's X-men-related books embarked on the Age of Apocalypse storyline, in which, due to a catastrophic time-travel venture of the psychotic mutant, Legion, Professor Xavier is killed several years before he forms the X-men. In the twenty years following Xavier's death, North America, bereft of Xavier's X-men's protection, is conquered by the nefarious super-mutant, Apocalypse, who turns the country into a breeding ground of genetic warfare and survival of the fittest. The atrocious sovereign is opposed only by Magneto and his ragtag version of the X-men. The resulting comics were some of the most interesting X-books of the 1990s. Readers were given a chance to see how their favorite characters would behave under an entire different set of circumstance. Relationships that were once impossible blossomed; characters that were once combative lightweights reached their full potential; and the apparent omnipotence of an ultimate evil caused some heroes to succumb to the dark side (Havok, Beast, Cannonball) while it caused some villains to realize the merit of valor and justice (Magneto, Sabretooth, Juggernaut).<br />While Scott Lobdell, the more emotive and romantic of the two writers assigned to the two core X-men books, was granted somewhat ingenuous characters such as Morph, Blink, Rogue and a dramatically different Sabretooth for his AOA book, Astonishing X-men, the more dismal and calculating Fabian Necieza's Amazing X-men included such heroes as a dour and dejected Banshee, a timid and quiet Storm, a cold and cunning Quicksilver, and a cynical and sarcastic Iceman. Likewise, Amazing X-men was not the triumphant tale of good triumphing over evil despite impossible odds that was Mr. Lobdell's book, but something much darker. More often than a feeling of achievement, the Amazing X-men walked away from their missions with a feeling of disgust. The weak and helpless are used as bargaining chips. Heroes, such as Banshee and Jamie Madrox, desolate about the state of their situations, consider sacrificing their hopeless lives if it will cause an iota of progress. Villains, such as Abyss and Apocalypse, engulfed by power and bloodlust become religious fanatics of murder and wickedness. Mr. Necieza used this opportunity to completely rearrange the X-men to shock and disturb readers and thoroughly explore the darker sides of a few characters. The result is one of the most interesting and pungent storylines of his stint on the X-books.	2002-05-10
US	44868072	RER4RDOK4ZCEZ	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Absolutely Mind-blowing	In his stunning debut novel, Fight Club, Chuck Palahniuk takes a deep, hard look at today's twenty and thirty-somethings and wonders where in this generation is the blood and thunder that once caused human beings to topple empires and stage revolutions. \\"You have a class of young, strong men and women and they want to give their lives to something,\\" remarks Fight Club's nameless narrator, \\"Advertising has these people chasing cars and clothes they don't need. Generations have been working in jobs they hate, just so they can buy what they don't really need.\\"<br />This dark, brooding young man becomes woefully unsatisfied with his consumer-lifestyle and soon develops strange neurosis. He attends support groups for diseases with which he is not afflicted and restlessly travels from airport to airport, just for the pleasure of waking-up in a different place each day.<br />Then he meets Tyler Durden.<br />Tyler becomes his drinking buddy and eventually his roommate when a mysterious explosion destroys the narrator's condominium. \\"I want you to do me a favor,\\" the mysterious, charismatic and outspoken Tyler declares one day, \\"I want you to hit me as hard as you can.\\" The narrator is at first apprehensive at such an odd request but Tyler determinedly insists. The punch opens the door for all of the narrator's darker impulses.<br />Soon after, he and Tyler found Fight Club, a weekly, underground gathering where young men vent their frustrations in brutal, one-on-one brawls. \\"After a night at fight club, everything in the real world gets the volume turned down,\\" the narrator states, \\"Nothing can piss you off, your word is law, and if other people break the law or question you, even that doesn't piss you off.\\" Soon Fight Club develops an almost religious following among unhappy, unloved, understimulated young men. Under Tyler's command Project Mayhem, an all-out anarchistic terrorist group braches from Fight Club. As Project Mayhem's activities become more violent and prolific, the narrator is worried how far Tyler will go and who this abrasive street-guru truly is.<br />Fight Club is the most comprehensive, thought-provoking and well-written novel to explore violent behavior since A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess, if not ever. Mr. Palahniuk obviously underwent extensive contemplation of the emptiness and frivolity of today's society and how it has caged and choked mankind's more dark, aggressive instincts. \\"We are the middle children of history, raised by television to believe that someday we'll be millionaires and movie stars and rock stars, but we won't. And we're just learning this fact. So don't f-ck with us,\\" declares Tyler. Fight Club captures the very essence of soulless consumer culture bursting at the seams, unleashing an onslaught of chaos, brutality and passion.	2002-05-10
US	44868072	R24DALWIAJFF3J	0785108114	279941995	New X-Men Vol. 1: E is for Extinction (v. 1)	Books	4	54	60	N	N	A new look at the X-men	Despite their status as perennial mega-sellers, Marvel's two series featuring the superpowered mutants, the X-men, Uncanny X-men and X-men, have been prone to continuous revamping in the past few years. In the summer of 1997, two parallel events, Operation Zero Tolerance and The Trial of Gambit, ousted such popular X-men as Bishop, Cyclops and Gambit and replaced them with newcomers, Maggott, Cecelia Reyes and Marrow. In August of 1998, most of those characters were written out, making room for the return of Nightcrawler, Shadowcat and Colossus who augmented a line-up similar to the X-men's classic years in the late nineteen-seventies and early eighties. In April of 2000, another fixture from the team's golden era, writer, Chris Claremont returned, on the condition that he be given complete creative jurisdiction. He oversaw a massive reformation of the X-books, implementing a \\"time jump,\\" in which the events of April's issues would occur six months after those of March's. Apparently, within this time window the X-men were dramatically changed as the team's line-up was completed altered and each character was redesigned visually.<br />After every supposedly crucial reformation, though, the books settled back into the mediocrity that had been apparent since Mr. Claremont left in 1991, like vinegar returning to the top of Italian dressing a while after it is shaken. Soon the dangling subplots, ultimate predictability and the relative one-sidedness of each character returned and another epic reformatting was needed to keep the reader's interest.<br />The cycle may have ended when Joe Quesada became Marvel's editor in chief in 2000. Mr. Quesada was bent on waking Marvel from its creative slumber, eliminating the boring and ultimately inconsequential storylines from its more historied titles, lessening the importance of retroactive continuity and gearing Marvel's titles towards the general young adult audience, not just obsessive comic book devotees or \\"fanboys.\\" One of the first targets of his renovation was the X-men. Writer, Grant Morrison, who was renowned for his work on dark, edgy titles such as The New Adventures of Hitler and The Invisibles but who had also proven his ability to revitalize long-standing titles on DC Comics' JLA, was tapped to script the new storylines and Frank Quitely, who had worked with Mr. Morrison on a JLA mini-series, was hired to redesign the X-men and their headquarters, the X-Mansion, to better parallel the recent hit X-men film.<br />So once again Marvel completely altered the X-books, reformatting the titles' covers, changing characters' uniforms, and chopping down the team's line-up (This time to Beast, Emma Frost, Phoenix, Cyclops, Professor Xavier and Wolverine). But alterations had been made to this variation of the X-men that had always been too risky for other reformers. The code of avoiding political hotspots had been broken, as Cyclops contributed to an assisted suicide and the X-men debated over employing capital punishment to reprimand a horrific supervillian. Topics such as Cyclops' and Phoenix's lovelife (including their sexuality) and Beast's insecurity about his monstrous appearance were tackled from new, more psychological angles. And, as a tragedy occurred on an enormous scale when the mutant-hunting Sentinels invaded Genosha and Professor Xavier made a seemingly unthinkable PR decision, readers were assured that this time, there would be no return to the ordinary that had followed other \\"reformations.\\" Not since the X-men's golden years, when Jean Grey appeared to perish and Wolverine proposed to Japanese aristocratic matriarch, Mariko Yashinda, have readers been given such reassurance that every issue was too important to miss. Mr. Morrison likely completed extensive study on what had been missing from the X-men throughout the nineteen nineties. In his adaptation, the characters seem more complex and fascinating, the plot lines more surprising and the books in general more realistic and adult-orientated than they have in years. It is still too soon to tell but X-men: E is for Extinction, which reprints the first four issues of this latest incarnation of the X-men, may portray an actual revolution of the X-books. Finally.	2002-04-30
US	44868072	R27TQUSPF5ZZOD	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Literary fun house	As opposed to the straightforward social realism of fellow Harlem Resonance icon, Richard Wright, Ralph Ellison employs a distinctly allegorical and baroque approach for his portrait of pre-Civil Rights Movement, African-American life, Invisible Man. Mr. Ellison's tale of a nameless, black college student's journey from the constraining South to the unreal black mini-nation of Harlem is a walk through a literary fun house, full of comedic satire, surreal exaggeration, elusive symbolism and almost beatnick-style lyricism. Mr. Ellison certainly shows a flair for absorbing the wretchedness, paranoia and hypocrisy that was abound during this era and reformatting it all into a configuration that underscores its wrongness and absurdity. Invisible Man proved Mr. Ellison to be one of the most striking authors of the Harlem Resonance and certainly the most dynamic and experimental.	2002-04-23
US	44868072	RLW8JJ28B54LF	0785100490	217782362	Marvels	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Marvel Universe through new eyes	For the 1994 mini-series, Marvels, Kurt Busiek and Alex Ross, came-up with an idea so brilliant, yet so simple, it is curious why no one thought of it years ago. Marvels presents the Marvel Universe (The fictional world that holds all of characters of Marvel Comics including Spider-man, The Hulk, The Fantastic Four, Captain America and more) through the eyes of the common man. Of coarse, to keep the book from being a commonplace tale with some supermen in the background, Mr. Busiek and Mr. Ross needed a protagonist that would have some interaction in the spandex-clad guardians of this world. Enter photojournalist, Phil Sheldon. Despite snapping photos of The Mighty Thor and The Uncanny X-men (and despite his astute introspection) Mr. Sheldon is just your average joe. He is a middle-aged man who commutes to work every morning, plays bridge every weekend, and tucks his daughters in every night. He is also the mouthpiece for the feelings one would expect of a man living in a time of unprecedented spectacles: curiosity, skepticism, awe and a huge hunk of fear. Mr. Busiek obviously undertook massive brainstorming and employed very careful reasoning to construct such a believable, not to mention likable, character with such rational, plausible concerns about an extreme, fantastic world.<br />If there was ever an artist born for such a project it is Alex Ross. His paintings are clear, crisp and, most of all, convincing. He sacrifices excessive dynamics and flashiness for images that are utterly realistic. Only actual photographs of a shimmering extraterrestrial floating down from the heavens or a man in a red and blue costume swinging from building to building could possibly be a step up from his work. Mr. Ross' stunning artwork greatly enhances the feelings of awe and wonderment of a man looking-up at the sky and seeing human beings airborne.<br />Throughout the years of overused ideas, disregard for scientific realities and perspectives from behind the mask, the fantastic events of comicbooks lost their majesty. By viewing them from the eyes of someone no more spectacular than me or you, Mr. Busiek and Mr. Ross return that feeling of wonderment and exhilaration one may have felt in 1938 when Superman first flew or in 1941 when Captain America tackled the Axis Powers with just a shield and a side-kick with more lushness, deliberation and proficiency than ever before. Marvels will do nothing less than make a reader forever see the Marvel Universe in a new light.	2002-04-23
US	44868072	R2Z5IV633IQRGL	1563893304	523289763	Kingdom Come	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ross and Waid explore DC's future	After depicting the Marvel Universe's past with 1994's four-part miniseries, Marvels, unrivaled comicbook painter, Alex Ross, sent his sights on the DC Universe's future with 1996's Kingdom Come. During the making of Marvels, Mr. Ross began drawing sketches and plotting an ambitious storyline, incorporating the lives of such heroes as Superman, Batman, Robin, Wonderwoman and The Green Lantern a few decades hence. Mark Waid, the author who was wowing readers with his tight, character-centered approach on series such as The Flash, Impulse and Captain America, was hired to add depth and structure to Mr. Ross' vision. The project is a personal best for both of these tremendously talented men.<br />It is obvious that Mr. Waid underwent extensive contemplation of each character's defining traits (Wonderwoman's fierceness and arrogance, Batman's cynicism and shrewdness, Superman's uprightness and reflective nature) and how they should clash with one another. The plot starts as the tale of a group of old-fashioned and slightly washed-up heroes gathering together to discipline the current super powered population but it is evident that each strong character soon pulled the plot in its most seemingly natural directions. Once again, Mr. Waid proved his ability to completely open-up each character's heart and allow them to lead the way. With personalities as strong as these iconic heroes budging his pen, Kingdom Come is the most vibrant and powerful story he has ever written.<br />Mr. Ross also rises to a new prime (as impossible as that would seem considering what a spectacular feat Marvels was). His facial expressions are more commanding than ever before. Words are hardly needed to feel the Superman's sadness and apprehension or Batman's craftiness and self-assurance. It is all in each character's eyes. His use of light and colors has also improved. The jade aura of The Green Lantern's spaceship and the fluid sunniness of the artificial farm within Superman's Fortress of Solitude are absolutely jaw dropping. And his realism and attention to detail have actually progressed a hair since Marvels.<br />Mr. Waid and Mr. Ross created a stunning work with Kingdom Come. The plot is almost biblical, the artwork is absolutely gorgeous and the characters are so powerful that they seem to throb from behind the pages. Kingdom Come is an epic comicbook story crafted almost perfectly.	2002-04-23
US	44868072	RUIWC20W92KDF	0393312836	483124263	A Clockwork Orange	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Looks the seedier side of human nature in the face	For the most part, there is wildly violent entertainment and then there is remarkably provocative art and seldom do the two overlap. One of those rare occasions is Anthony Burgress 1962 transgressive classic, A Clockwork Orange. At first, the tale of Alex, a malicious, young degenerate of the future, seems like a warped, little shocker, full of madcap language, malevolent intentions and stomach-turning violence. As the novel progresses, though, it is soon evident that Mr. Burgess is carefully surveying an important subject matter: juvenile delinquency. Through portrayals of Alexs parents, he comments on Dr. Spock-style principles. Through portrayals of the government and prison system, he comments on what type of society produces these baby-faced killers (One as amoral and creative as the delinquents themselves). And through the main characters vivid naration he explores the surprisingly human thoughts and motives behind this appalling behavior. Most often when one walks into a theater, turns on the TV or opens a novel and squeems, the said medias creators are attempting to vend cheap thrills. But not always. Mr. Burgess brilliant and alarming book and the stunning Stanley Kubrick film based upon it are instances when true artists looked the seedier side of human nature in the face and produced poignant works of art from their observations.	2002-04-23
US	44868072	R3KO7VQ420N3FE	0345303067	940144736	2010: Odyssey Two	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Clarke at a loss for ideas on 2001 sequel	In the mid-1980s, Arthur C. Clarke expanded the plot lines of his 1968 speculative classic, 2001: A Space Odyssey into a trio of sequels, having, unfortunately, no specific direction or new ideas with which to propel the series. 2001's first unnecessary follow-up, 2010: Odyssey Two, brings back many interesting facets from its predecessor: More information is given on HAL, the onboard computer of the mission, Discovery, whose malfunction had deadly consequences in 2001; new developments occur in the international space race; David Bowman reappears in his star child form and some more big, black monoliths show-up. But the novel lacks the definitive direction of 2001. Half a dozen plot strains swim around but none answer any important questions left unanswered in 2001 or greatly spark the reader's interest. I'm sorry to say that Mr. Clarke was more likely inspired to write additional Odyssey novels by the attention and income drummed-up by the 2001 trademark than any further insights into mankind's enlightenment to the wonders of the universe.	2002-04-14
US	44868072	R18IR3TZWJFMI7	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A breathtaking classic	A scientific expedition uncovers a tall black monolith, purposefully buried below the moon's surface. Exposure to sunlight triggers a powerful radio signal from the mysterious object. NASA determines the signal's destination: Saturn. Although, Arthur C. Clarke's 2001: A Space Odyssey centers around the discovery of unquestionable proof of extraterrestrial intelligence, what is truly being commemorated in this science fiction classic is mankind's own investigation and realization of the wonders around him. In an age when so many other authors of speculative fiction were predicting nuclear extinction, Mr. Clarke took a very different stance, presenting a goodhearted, intelligent mankind ready to tread that final frontier and meet with what or who received that signal. From the account of man-apes using rocks and sticks as the first tools and weapons in the story's prelude to a human being looking down at an unexplored planet through the window of a space craft in its later parts, every vividly painted scene of this incredible novel seems to gasp at the scientific accomplishments of mankind and our potential for even greater enlightenment. Mr. Clarke believes that we are ready to join the other intelligent denizens of the universe and he wrote a heavily contemplative dazzler of a novel explaining why.	2002-04-04
US	44868072	R3J2W9OSE866RT	0446603775	972640933	Dawn (Xenogenesis, Bk. 1)	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Largely disappointing	After reading the first nine pages of Dawn by Octavia E. Butler, I anticipated quite a mind-blowing novel. Rarely have I read a group of passage as vivid, startling and absorbing as Ms. Butler's initial description of Lilith Iyapo's nightmarish detainment by mysterious, extraterrestrial captors. Unfortunately the authoress is better at getting a reader's attention than keeping it.<br />As more is revealed about the bizarre Oankali, the alien race confining Lilith, the book becomes consistently less interesting. I give Ms. Butler credit for composing some striking, surrealistic imagery and for creating very believable characters in Lilith and other human detainees whom the Oankali have collected after a devastating nuclear war, but I also must note that she seems unable to effectively steer the story in any stimulating direction (After the second chapter, it just wanders) and that her aliens seem, well.... alien. More time is spent dispensing gabble about sensory arms and suspended animation than any information that makes these placid, stoic creatures seem alarming or compelling. I'm sorry to say that little of subsequent chapters lived-up to the astounding first.	2002-04-04
US	44868072	R2X7NYBQOS27NS	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Some kinks present, but still a good collection	Throughout the 1940s, Isaac Asimov, then a professor of biochemistry, spent significant time theorizing about artificial intelligence. Interrelated short stories presenting the author's vision of a future that humanity would share with a mechanical brethren, often involving Mr. Asimov's engineering corporation, U.S. Robots, were published in various magazines and eventually collected in the book, I Robot. Together these anecdotes establish a well reasoned, although dreadfully outdated, scheme of how robotics would effect our future. Mr. Asimov presents an interesting series of philosophical and psychological conundrums such a world would present and invents consistently clever solutions and explanations, usually through the mouths U.S. Robots' engineers, scientists and \\"robopsychologists.\\"<br />The journey to the stories' thought-provoking conclusions can be a difficult one, though. With the exception of the family who are apprehensive about their young daughter's attachment to a robot servant in &quot;Robbie&quot; and mysterious politician, Stephen Byerley, who appears in &quot;Evidence&quot; and &quot;The Evitable Conflict,&quot; I Robot is populated mostly by U.S. Robots' high-ranking staff, who are more insipid and emotionless than the machines they design and inspect. Also the stories are often bogged down by technical information, which, when judged by today's standards, ranges from obsolete to absurd. These two aspects often make I Robot, sluggish reading and are perhaps the result of Mr. Asimov's institutionalization in the grooves of academia. Still, there is no denying his ability to create and explore a constantly exciting and interesting premise. There are a lot of kinks present in I Robot but, in the end, it is a rewarding read.	2002-03-12
US	44868072	R1JUQKLWLH2KVX	0393315088	317869865	The Wanting Seed (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	5	75	83	N	N	Turns the typical dystopian novel on its ear	Your bookstore is stocked full of novels predicting mankind's future, but none quite like this. With the Wanting Seed, Anthony Burgess turns the typical dystopian novel on its ear. Instead of a methodical, technorganic world, Mr. Burgess presents a smelly, macrobiotic mess of overpopulation and disharmony. Instead of a more stringent emphasis on rightwing ideals, the aforementioned overpopulation has caused an enthusiastic governmental endorsement of homosexuality and opposition to typical family ideals. Instead of a grim, foreboding atmosphere, Mr. Burgess employs a lighthearted, quirky tone, allowing readers to smirk at the ridiculousness and incongruity to which the world of the Wanting Seed has been driven. It is obvious that Mr. Burgess, the same literary practical joker who filled his best-know book, A Clockwork Orange, with make-up slang, meant to poke some well-needed fun at the dismal 1984/Brave New World genre.<br />But just because the Wanting Seed is a work of playful parody and dark comedy does not mean there is nothing profound about it. In fact if I had to pick the one dystopian novel towards which our society is most surely leaning, it would be this one (which is pretty amazing considering it was written in 1962). As counties like China and India are regulating procreation and instituting their own versions of Mr. Burgess' \\"population police\\" and the value of human life wilts ever downward, I wonder how close we are to vision of the Wanting Seed. The novel stands as a warning that repressing man's natural urges and diminishing his worth is not the answer to the problem. Your bookstore is stocked full of novels predicting mankind's future, but few as startling and important as this.	2002-02-24
US	44868072	R2OUTHN8VZ30UD	0451524233	507854420	Tarzan of the Apes (Signet Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great read	I was given a copy of Tarzan of the Apes by an English professor who knew I enjoyed reading in my spare time. The gift was a bit of a surprise. I would expect someone more like Walt Whitman or the William Faulkner than Edgar Rice Burroughs from such a person. Still, I started reading Tarzan, if only for some...points. I was surprised as how much I enjoyed the book. Not only is Mr. Burroughs' prose clever and engaging, but the story is downright addicting. Hey, cerebral literature and musty old classics are great, but so is vicariously swinging through trees and wrestling lions with your bare hands. Thanks...for the great read.	2002-02-24
US	44868072	R3RV2HRC7L97O1	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Brilliant	There are occasions when inspiration reaches a good writer and energizes him or her to become a great writer; a master. For Ernest Hemingway it was visiting the simple, strong people of Cuba's fishing villages. For John Gunther it was the courage and affability shown by his son during the boy's struggle with brain cancer. For Pat Frank it was being asked, \\"What do you think would happen if the Russians hit us when we weren't looking?\\" For Truman Capote it was massacre of the Herbert W. Clutter family.<br />Mr. Capote did not actually know Mr. Clutter or any member of his family personally. He read about their puzzling murders in a small New York Times article. The hipster novelist and short story scribe, always looking for a new muse, caught the next train for the Clutter's hometown of Holcomb, Kansas, notebook in hand, to see what kind of work the case might inspire. Throughout the six years Mr. Capote spent researching and writing his \\"non-fiction novel,\\" he carefully observed the community of Holcomb; witnessed the search for, capture and eventual execution of the Clutters' murderers (Perry Smith and Dick Hickock, two excons who were given misinformation about a safe Herbert Clutter supposedly kept in his office. Mr. Capote interviewed both extensively) and found literary gold.<br />In Cold Blood is an American masterpiece. From the warm, vivid caricature of Holcomb to the extensive biographies of Dick and Perry to the stark portrayal of death row, the novel displays our country at its best (The Clutters' wholesomeness; Perry's childish sense of adventure; the intimacy of Holcomb) and at its worst (The decadence and abuse of Perry's childhood; Dick's utter callousness; the vengeful execution of the duo). The imagery that makes up In Cold Blood is bound to become deeply insaturated into the psyche of any reader both because of its poignancy and because it is so masterfully verbally painted. The story is told from the golden pen of an author who has obviously, carefully measured every scene, paragraph and sentence for its impact.<br />Be it the significant weight of the subject matter (Localism, stability, adventure, greed, murder, capital punishment and the links that connect all are all explored), the personal connection Mr. Capote felt by being in Kansas and knowing the \\"characters\\" or some other inspiration, the author exhumed magnificent, spell-binding skill and style, that was evident, yet not fully emerged, on his previous works. For In Cold Blood, the chemistry flowed, the stars aligned, the doors opened and a master was truly born. The novel is truly a monumental classic.	2002-02-11
US	44868072	R1U8UWBC3QSCON	0345431618	517432051	The Man Who Fell to Earth	Books	5	63	66	N	N	How it used to be...	With the endless barrages of big-budgeted, simple-minded, ray gun-blasting movies and absurdly complex, geek-aimed fantasy trilogies and tetralogies that have ruled the genre during the past decade, it is difficult to believe that science fiction stories were once compelling, introspective works that employed strange and surreal methods to carry great sociopolitical and philosophical weight. The Man Who Fell to Earth by Walter Tevis, first published in 1963, is a paradigmatic example of that fine, long-gone variety of space age tale. Mr. Tevis' protagonist, a tall, slender, frail humanoid that calls itself \\"Thomas Jerome Newton,\\" is sent to Earth from Anthea, a planet where the only knowledge of our world is from the television broadcasts that reach it. Between the glossy commercials and the startling news reports, the Antheans see Earth as a green, watery utopia in some ways and a nuclear powder keg in others. After falling from the Kentucky sky in a one-man spacecraft, Newton embarks on a shady and ambiguous mission. The reserved and methodical stranger's true intent is way too surprising and well developed for any measly reviewer to rightfully give it away. Without letting slip too many precious details, I will tell you that the flimsy extraterrestrial discovers the darker aspects of human society, the feelings of futility, the addictions and vices, the ignorance and distrust and other stigmas not shown on TV. From Newton's fragile eyes, Mr. Tevis does nothing less than paint a striking portrait of the frustrations of being an Earthling.	2002-01-27
US	44868072	R1RLA7DGXVOJFD	055321358X	707805727	O Pioneers! (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An exquisite book in a dumpy frame	In the hulking box of textbooks that I hauled to my dorm on the day before classes began last semester, there was a small, out-of-place, [...] copy of O Pioneers by Willa Cather. Apparently, my English Composition instructor thought it best our class read \\"a good piece of English writing\\" before we embarked on our journal entries and research papers. I was not overly eager to read O Pioneers. It appeared to be one of those literary standards I saw while perusing Barnes and Noble, unattractive, unoriginally decorated little books with a quaint painting of older time on the cover and obligatory stamping of the publishers name followed by the word, \\"classic;\\" as if the publishers themselves were too unenthusiastic about them for any serious sales pitch. I always headed for the William S. Burroughs or Robert A. Heinlein sections, rarely paying attention to the drab dinosaurs.<br />Well, as the old clich&eacute; goes, don't judge a book by its cover. O Pioneers is an excellent tale of the trials and hardships of the gritty immigrants and pheasants who staked a claim and worked under a dream in the unsettled regions of this country so long ago. The realistic, headstrong, engaging characters live lives of poignant dedication, labor and loneliness as they swim around in the authoress' exquisite imagery (\\"The pasture was flooded with light; every clump of ironweed or snow-on-the mountain threw a long shadow and the golden light seemed to be rippling through the curly grass like the tide racing in\\"). Ms. Cather obviously tested every sentence for its weight, impact and flavor. The cold, dusty fields of Nebraska are vibrantly brought to life by this blatant perfectionist.<br />I was extremely impressed with this novel. Not impressed enough to change my usual literary diet from cult classics and science fiction masterpieces, but I certainly enjoyed it enough to save my unpretentious edition of O Pioneers from being carted back to the bookstore when they began buying books to sell used for the next semester.	2002-01-27
US	44868072	R196VZFT8N06S2	0345431618	517432051	The Man Who Fell to Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	How it used to be...	With the endless barrages of big-budgeted, simple-minded, ray gun-blasting movies and absurdly complex, geek-aimed fantasy trilogies and tetralogies that have ruled the genre during the past decade, it is difficult to believe that science fiction stories were once compelling, introspective works that employed strange and surreal methods to carry great sociopolitical and philosophical weight. The Man Who Fell to Earth by Walter Tevis, first published in 1963, is a paradigmatic example of that fine, long-gone variety of space age tale. Mr. Tevis' protagonist, a tall, slender, frail humanoid that calls itself \\"Thomas Jerome Newton,\\" is sent to Earth from Anthea, a planet where the only knowledge of our world is from the television broadcasts that reach it. Between the glossy commercials and the startling news reports, the Antheans see Earth as a green, watery utopia in some ways and a nuclear powder keg in others. After falling from the Kentucky sky in a one-man spacecraft, Newton embarks on a shady and ambiguous mission. The reserved and methodical stranger's true intent is way too surprising and well developed for any measly reviewer to rightfully give it away. Without letting slip too many precious details, I will tell you that the flimsy extraterrestrial discovers the darker aspects of human society, the feelings of futility, the addictions and vices, the ignorance and distrust and other stigmas not shown on TV. From Newton's fragile eyes, Mr. Tevis does nothing less than paint a striking portrait of the frustrations of being an Earthling.	2002-01-27
US	44868072	RIQNON2KS0DH6	0451160312	444406044	I Never Promised You a Rose Garden	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Outstanding and startling	Schizophrenia is a disorder much more bizarre and incomprehensible to the healthy person than depression and other forms of neurosis. Likewise, I Never Promised You a Rose Garden, Joanne Greenberg's startling story of a sixteen-year-old schizophrenic, is, despite its frilly title, much more intense and baroque than the Bell Jar, Girl Interrupted and most other titles on the bookshelf of novels featuring young women's struggles with mental illness. While the protagonists of the former novels undeniably faced gray, discouraging, slanted views of the world around them, reality for Rose Garden's Deborah Blau is something unrecognizable and alarming. Sometime during her childhood of alienation and physical sickness, the kingdom of Yr somehow developed within her mind. The Yri gods invited Deborah to escape the frustrating dimension of Earth and fly through Yr's wide-open skies, dance through its golden fields and speak its poetic language. As she grew older, Deborah became a captive of her imagination, blacking out; assaulting others and cutting and burning herself upon its whim. As Deborah enters an asylum, Ms. Greenberg masterfully takes readers behind the mask of this compulsively fascinating, deeply disturbed young woman. It may be impossible for a healthy person to completely imagine inner workings of someone like Deborah's mind, but this outstanding, somewhat psychedelic-flavored novel gives a startling, unforgettable speculative glimpse.	2002-01-21
US	44868072	RMIN8SQSIGRLX	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	4	8	10	N	N	I enjoyed Starship Troopers, despite disagreeing with it	Since its first publication in 1959, Starship Troopers by Robert A. Heinlein has been a controversial tale of intergalactic military adventure. Naysayers have called rightwing at best and downright fascist at worst. I can honestly say I did not agree with a single notion expressed in it. I cringed at Mr. Heinlein's justification of the death penalty; promotion of corporal punishment; romantic portrayal of war; conviction that military personal are all of better moral fiber than the rest of society and speculation that a twenty-second century Earth of ultimate military rule would lead to an era of complete gender, racial and religious equality, unprecedented prosperity and a planet utterly free of internal hostility.<br />Despite this, reading Starship Troopers greatly increased my respect for Mr. Heinlein as a novelist. Like all great novels with sociopolitical overtones, the philosophy of Starship Troopers is unaffectedly and unpretentiously embedded into the narration. Throughout this convincing coming of age story of a young Mobile Infantry recruit named Johnnie Rico, Heinlein's thoughts are echoed by a series of drill instructors, teachers and comrades. Although, I harmonize with practically none of them, the author reasons them well with metaphors, historical background and powerful, seemingly genuine dialogues.  I accredit Mr. Heinlein with restlessly stimulating my intellect on the issues at hand. Starship Troopers may be a monument to mulish, outdated military elitism, but it is also an inspired, well-written thought-provoking novel.	2002-01-16
US	44868072	R3BA7GCX8F54HD	0316769509	595009960	Nine Stories	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Looks deeply at our society	In Nine Stories, J.D. Salinger seems bent on exposing the poignant complexities of the people around us. The characters of these timeless narratives are typical American men and women, nestled away in suburbs; unwinding on summer retreats and buried in apartment complexes; folks who, on the surface, seem fortunate and content. Mr. Salinger peels past their public appearances, throwing them conundrums bound to expose their hidden insecurities, shortcomings and naivety. A visit from a college roommate causes an upheaval of reflection and regret in a suburban housewife in \\"Uncle Wiggly in Connecticut;\\" romantic turmoil unearths a mean streak in the chief of a boy scout-type organization in \\"the Laughing Man\\" and Seymour Glass, the burnt-out intellectual whose presence would loom over Salinger's latter work, falls over the edge in the intense, unpredictable, unforgettable classic, \\"A Perfect Day for Bananafish.\\" Fifty years after they were conceived these characters could still be your neighbors or schoolmates. The vivid portraits of Nine Stories are practical assessments for the modern American dream.	2002-01-16
US	44868072	R2DDAMR960QHZB	0060932201	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Extraordinary speculation on the life of Hitler	Hitler's Niece by Ron Hansen is an enthralling, convincing look at the feeble man who became the great monster. Although  Mr. Hansen also paints a splendid portrait of the thoughtless, mesmerized minions who made up his cult, the primary eyes through which this portrayal is painted are those of Geli Raubal, the daughter of Adolf Hitler's half-sister, Angela. Hitler shows little interest in his niece as a child, but when she reaches her late teens, the charming, witty, attractive, young woman - an easy character for readers to love - becomes an object of obsession to him. As he and the Nazi Party gains significant momentum and his megalomania blooms, Hitler becomes Geli's financer, caretaker, companion, surrogate father and, if he has his way, sexual partner. Hitler takes meticulous, roundabout, disgusting measures to confuse and dominate the young girl. Geli, thankful to \\"Uncle Alf\\" for bringing her out of the Raubal's poverty, lives in fear and dread of her uncle and the power he holds over her, over everything he touches, while she wears a jovial public smile. The engaging, lushly told narration slowly and gracefully moves toward the type of nail-biting conclusion whose inevitability only causes it to be more absorbing and affecting. The tale, based on actual occurrences and obviously well researched, is a believable, fascinating speculation on the emotional emptiness that backgrounded Hitler's appalling evil.	2002-01-11
US	44868072	R26S75HV0CGAG	0345350472	978657248	Blade Runner (Movie-Tie-In Edition)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Excellent book	In Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep by Philip K. Dick, the title question symbolizes the moral conundrum of its protagonist, Rick Deckard. Deckard is a twenty first century cop who searches for and \\"retires\\" complex, lifelike androids who have permeated the population of a dusty, post-WWIII Earth. After experiencing feelings for Luba Loft, a robotic opera singer, Deckard becomes uncertain of the virtue of his job. Other characters who fuel his moral queries are Phil Reash, a fellow bounty hunter who takes sadistic pleasure in his work; John Isodore, a simpleton who feels useful for the first time when caring for a group of fugitive androids; Rachael Rosenberg, a robot with whom Deckard attempts to test the limits of his feelings for electronic creatures and Wilbur Mercer, a technicolor messiah who encourages him to disregard his feelings and simply carry out his job, acting more robotic himself. Throughout the novel, Dick never exactly settles any of his complex inquiries, but merely leaves them carefully set out for his more pensive readers to contemplate.	2002-01-05
US	44868072	R3TEATG1EDASFI	0060931396	313139072	Alas, Babylon (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	I did not want it to end	As a speculative tale about the Cold War, written by a former journalist and official in the US War Department, one would expect that Alas Babylon would be a novel filled with intense political theory and alarming words of caution, in the same vain of 1984 by George Orwell or Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury. Despite his background, however, Pat Frank, keeps the sociopolitical banter to a minimum and writes a wonderful, surprisingly warm novel where character is king. The unforgettable story of the population of River Road in Fort Repose, Florida's day-to-day survival after most of the US is reduced to ashes by Soviet incursion rides on the backs of its unforgettable characters: Randy Bragg, the community's patriarch who taps unknown potential when placed in a position of leadership. Helen Bragg, his sister-in-law who maintains an undying maternal spirit as she gulps down immense anxiety and heartbreaking loss. Dan Gunn, the town's doctor who stays true to his Hippocratic Oath, despite a vast depletion of medicine and other necessities and an increase disparaging situations. Bill McGovern, a former elitist who overcomes self-pity and gets his hands dirty for the sake of survival. The Henries, an African-American family who were once largely ignored but whose industrious spirit and old-fashion know-how now makes them essential to the River Road commune's continuing existence. These memorable caricatures are the meat of Alas Babylon, not a dose of complex, cynical conjecture on mankind's future. Their thoughtless empathy and enduring spirit make Alas Babylon one of the few pieces of speculative fiction that makes the reader feel good about the human condition. Surely, cold and frightening portrayals of a future where humanity makes very wrong sociopolitical turns can be riveting (1984 and Fahrenheit 451 are both knock-out novels) but creating a cast so lovable, so distinctive and so real that they could be your neighbors is Frank's way of keeping his audience glued to his vision of the future. The results is a compelling, vibrant and triumphant novel.	2002-01-05
US	44868072	R3L9O27YYM411B	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Punctuation, is? fun!	Using a highly original and intriguing premise, Daniel Keyes shed light on America's mentally challenged population with Flowers for Algernon. The novel consists of the journal of Charlie Gordon, a retarded adult selected for a experimental surgical procedure meant to increase his intelligence. Charlie is gleeful at the opportunity to become as smart as an average adult. But, as the experiment succeeds (and the narration's sloppy English slowly becomes more scholarly), Charlie's broadening comprehension and maturing emotions leave him prey to new hardships, such as the revelation that he is an object of mockery at the bakery where he sweeps floors, moral disagreement with the doctors who designed the experiment and a need to understand the parents who had forsaken him years ago. These complications lead to a few instances where Keyes seems unsatisfied with developing a tremendously interesting sci-fi concept and grapples with vague, inconsistent philosophical ideas. Still, the author deserves acclaim for his significant skill for character development, compelling insight into this almost invisible portion of the population and stunning originality.	2001-12-27
US	44868072	R1D1KP7N4UL7H2	0958578338	909792257	The Birth Caul	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Moore�s experiment plunges	Alan Moore, the much-admired writer of such dark comicbook classics as V for Vendetta and Watchmen, was sent on a path of reflection on life's most profound questions after the death of his mother in 1995. His thoughts are documented in the Birth Caul, a shaky, poetry-like exposition, performed as a spoken word piece and later produced as this experimental comic book, illustrated in the scatchy artwork of Eddie Campbell. Like all Moore creations, the Birth Caul is forbiddingly contemplative. The author has long displayed a gift for placing sizeable meaning into small pictures. But the wide range of bewildering subject matter packed into forty-eight pages (the illusions of childhood, the plights of the working class and the big bang are both portrayed somewhere in the book) and its repetitiously cynical, spiteful tone make the Birth Caul come off as somewhat pompous. The work features a few sparks of serious power but the graceful blueprinting that allowed Moore to dodge pretension in his more grounded work is not evident in this overly confrontational and unstructured book.	2001-12-19
US	44868072	R27THA2VLQ8ZH0	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;I am a recording instrument. I am not an entertainer&quot;	If you are considering reading Naked Lunch, you should be warned that it is one of the most challenging classics of recent literary history. The infamous novel, scrawled down during the twilight of author, William S. Burroughs' fifteen-year addiction to opiates, has frustrated countless readers with its inability to fit into any type of classification; its vulgar, offensive nature and its shaky stream-of-conscious narration. To some, Naked Lunch may seem like tasteless gibberish (That is certainly how it seemed to the Massachusetts Attorney General who unsuccessfully tried the novel for obscenity charges in 1966). But by taking the right approach to this story of Bill Lee, a drug pusher and habitual user, and Interzone, the surrealist, netherworld in urban Mexico to which he flees, you may find it to be a spectacular writing.<br />Keep in mind that Burroughs is the definition of a beatnik, an author who forbids himself any scholarly instruction and simply wrote as he felt, scraping satire, fantasy and social realism together into one vessel. Understand that he lived much of his life as a drifter, pulled ever downward into society's grimier aspects. Vulgarity and mortification are simply results of the author writing what he knows. Remember that his psyche had been scrambled by opiates and that Naked Lunch's rickety form intriguingly mirrors Burroughs' sense of reality. Now you are ready for this bizarre, extraordinary book.<br />Although reading Naked Lunch is a thorny process, it offers numerable delights: Deep belly-laughter at Interzone's funhouse mirroring of American decadence, intense visualization of the area's vividly described, baroque spectacles, astonishment at its denizens' all-consuming greed, hypocrisy and sadism, speculation at how much of these strange observations were based on what Burroughs actually experienced and fascination at the way in which the narration breaks down as the speaker's mind erodes. I hope that you find that, despite its disregard for almost every rule taught in High School English; despite its rawness and vulgarity and despite being an exceptional challenge to follow, Naked Lunch is a mind-blowing book.	2001-12-19
US	44868072	R3C6HYVBNM5RLZ	0140256369	628563700	Of Love And Other Demons (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Story of an unlikely knight and an even more unlikey damsel	In this liberal era of separation of church and state, compassionate parenting and victim's rights, many situations faced in a society as rigid and superstitious as colonial South America are barely imaginable. Through the majestic, fairy-tale ambiance of Columbian master, Gabriel Garcia Marquez, however, such an environment is vividly alive in all of its cruelty, dread and heartache. The epoch is the backdrop to Marquez's Of Love and Other Demons, the story of Maria de Todos los Angeles, the twelve-year old daughter of an insecure marquis and his bitter, adulterous wife. Maria escapes her dysfunctional family life by becoming culturally assimilated by her parents' African slaves. When she is bitten by a rabid dog, she is swept up in a wave of paranoia and ignorance and confined to a monastery where she awaits her exorcism. Here, she develops an almost telepathic bond with a character who readers would not initially expect to be Maria's hero. Although he is condemned for his love for Maria, this man resolutes to save her from her miserable fate, after undergoing a moral crisis. Of Love and Other Demons is the flawlessly and lushly narrated story of an unlikely knight who sets out to rescue an even more unlike damsel in distress and contests his superstitious, traditional society for the unconquerable concept of love in doing so.	2001-12-19
US	44868072	R229DKU7774KJM	1563896656	702953874	1: The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Alan Moore goes Victorian	The most lighthearted tale even written by acclaimed comicbook scribe, Alan Moore, is likely the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen. Moore borrows characters from famous works in Victorian Literature, including Mina Murray, Captain Nemo, the Invisible Man, Alan Quartermain, Dr. Jeckell and Mr. Hyde, and places them in a Justice League-type team, gathered together to find a stolen device capable of unleashing the horrors of aerial warfare on London. Moore constructs a dead-on parody of these high-flying romantic heroes; their stuffy attitudes and language; their utter political incorrectness; their obvious sexual hang-ups. Fans of Moore's darker work, such as Watchmen and From Hell, may be disappointed, but those of us who have read the rousing tails of adventure it masterfully parodies will find the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen entertaining and hilarious.	2001-12-16
US	44868072	R2LRPTPZ3H8SES	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	2	11	31	N	N	Boring	For more than twenty-five years, To Kill a Mocking Bird by Harper Lee has been universally ingratiated into high school English programs. The repetitious dialogue; unhindered meandering; endlessly and needlessly branching plotline and much dated speech and setting has probably frightened more sophomores out of ever reading for fun than the Great Gatsby and Watership Down combined. But just because forcing teenagers to read a detailed account of growing up in 1930s Alabama is borderline child abuse does not mean there is nothing students can learn about good literature from To Kill a Mocking Bird. The characterization is presented masterfully; the descriptions are vivid; the narration is well done and it truly reflects the trials and tribulations of the time in which was written. To Kill a Mocking Bird is a fine piece of literature, but it's a terribly boring book.	2001-12-06
US	44868072	R2ISYF27UI9NZT	0910244464	413708713	Ol' Prophet Nat	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Affecting historical fiction	In 1831, the Turner rebellion shook America's cotton kingdom to its core. Nat Turner, a slave who had become a preacher, felt he had been chosen by God to lead an insurrection. A solar eclipse provided a sign that his time was now. Turner led approximately two hundred slaves in the massacre of sixty Virginia whites. Once his uprising had been broken up by a white militia, Turner hid in a Virginia swamp for more than two months before his capture. The leader was eventually tried and executed with sixteen of his coconspirators but the South would never be the same. Turner's rebellion unintentionally caused the bonds that imprisoned slaves tightened.  Teaching slaves to read, black preachers and unsupervised assemblies were outlawed, while instances of cruelty escalated. Planters saw the bloodthirsty fire ignited in its caged workforce became frightened and paranoid.<br />Daniel Pagner attempts to bring this historic event to life in Ol' Prophet Nat. His narrator, a collector of old books, comes across a family Bible in which Turner, while hidden in the Virginia swamps, wrote his story. The premise is slightly hokey but Ol' Prophet Nat still effectively recreates Nat Turner and his uprising. The flimsy, grimy old cabins; the hot days and long hours; the bleeding black flesh and a community's collective fear and anger are all described in stunning detail. Turner himself becomes quite the literary character. He considers himself a Moses and the African Americans, the Israelites and the gut wrenching decisions he must make to do what is right, despite its futility and detrimental outcome, is truly affecting to readers. This fine account of the Turner rebellion animates the dusty pages of history into vibrant life.	2001-11-16
US	44868072	R2N1MGESPZV0P	0060809779	146114302	Native Son	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Brilliant	Like most young men Bigger Thomas is tearing off the chains of adolescence and vying for independence. If only he was not poor and black in 1930s Chicago he may have found it. His situation is bleak and certainly not preferable for someone young and full of energy. Bigger is penniless. All occupational opportunities offered to him are menial. His father is dead. His mother is poor, overemotional and obtuse. White radicals such as communists will only get him into trouble. White philanthropy does not understand him and provides only the tritest comforts. His peers are as trapped as he is. The white ruled world has established high walls between him and the gentler aspects of society. He is growing furious in a societal cage too small for him. He is bound for trouble and finds it in the murder of a young, white woman in a moment of haste.<br />Leading African-American novelist, Richard Wright, sets himself a considerable challenge with Native Son. His protagonist is the type of young, black man who is often despised. Bigger is an unemployed urban dweller who is full of rage and guilty of an atrocious crime. Nevertheless, readers deeply care about him. Bigger is basically good-natured, yet completely conflicted and confused. In an attempt to outrun the inevitable he commits dreadful, yet utterly, logical acts. The series of dilemmas he faces is inexcusably unjust and gravely challenging, yet perfectly realistic. By understanding both the prejudices and truth surrounding African-American society Wright brilliantly antagonizes even the most intellectualized presumptions and prejudices about minorities, while leading his readers down a path of aching sympathy and nail-biting suspense. Wright's narrative skillfully places readers behind Bigger's eyes. Despite being, on the surface, the type of black man on which whites often base their prejudices, his thoughts are not unlike those of any young man from any race, including, to my surprise, my own.	2001-11-11
US	44868072	REH6RTWMNWIRJ	0688167721	304427712	Parental Advisory: Music Censorship in America	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Consistent &amp; well-rounded it is not, but still a decent read	Although he is not the most unbiased source on the subject, radio programmer, Eric D. Nuzum, takes readers along the often-treaded path of music censorship in the United States. From interracial dancing at Fats Domino gigs to John Lennon's inflammatory statement about the Beatles being bigger than Jesus to Tipper Gore and the PMRC, the road is interesting, outrageous and often hilarious. The excellent first section separates the subject into the histories of controversies concerning sex, religion, drugs, protest, violence and others. The unnecessary and less interesting second section is a chronological listing of instances of censorship. Consistent or well-rounded it is not, but Parental Advisory: Music Censorship in America is an interesting read and a decent rallying call for those who have already made up their minds on the issue of music censorship.	2001-11-11
US	44868072	RR034WWXTJCDZ	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Feast for the mind's eye	With its images of pink forrests and dying suns, The Time Machine by science fiction pioneer, H.G. Wells, is a tale from the very brinks of the imagination. Wells' nameless physicist is a scientific genius who built a machine capable of making him a nomad in time. When a trial run sends the time traveler more than one hundred thousand years in the future, he finds himself in an unindustrialized, tropical climate surrounded by odd vegetation, magnificent and mysterious citadels, a race of childlike humanoids called the \\"Eloi\\" and a frightening, subterranean apish race called \\"Morlocks.\\" The timetraveler surveys his surroundings, attempting to discover whatever happened to humanity. Although the prose is somewhat dated and unsophisticated, the Time Machine is a true original of speculative fiction and a fantastic stimulator of the mind's eye.	2001-11-10
US	44868072	R1HW2BHJL1ZG00	0140043519	683385169	Junky	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Harrowing	Little of the sprawling, stream-of-conscious style that would define William S. Burroughs's later work is found in his superb first novel, Junky. The narrative is straightforward, grim and dark. No spice is necessary is to intensify the subject matter. Junky is the story of Bill Lee, an aimless drifter who lets opiates or \\"junk\\" take control of his life. \\"You become a narcotics addict because you do not have any strong motivations in any other direction,\\" Burroughs explains in the prologue, \\"Junk wins by default.\\" It is upon that idea that Junky progresses. Little about how the main character feels or thinks is discussed, but information about the effect of junk, how it is peddled, how cure programs work and how junkies form subcultures in inner cities is revealed in great detail and that is Burroughs's masterminding. Junk has taken control and Lee's being slowly becomes a mere vehicle for his addiction. It becomes the main character. The effect is one of harrowing sadness for the reader and one of fascination for those of us with an interest in narcotics addiction. Junky is less a book I would recommend to fans of beatnik or other experimental literature and more of a novel I would highly endorse for readers who enjoy works, which are highly pungent and affecting.	2001-11-04
US	44868072	R13ZKCJP6KQJ0Z	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amazing	Deciding that neither a novel nor a short stories collection would be fully apt to speak of the oddities, moral netherworlds and mental erosion he witnessed during Vietnam, Tim O'Brien decided upon this, an innovative, non-linear collage of closely linked short fiction to reflect on he and his characters' experiences during, before and years after service in Vietnam. O'Brien is like a composer, using reflection exposition, pain and black humor as his notes and melodies. The Things They Carried vividly takes reader along the physical trudges of its characters, their ever-changing attitudes, their surreal unconsciouses and their fears, doubts and breaking points. Unlike many novels themed around war, The Things They Carried does not try to endlessly break readers' spirits, speaking in a continuously grave tone about death, gore, brutality and the human condition. Although often lucidly realistic, The Things They Carried also speaks calmly to readers' hearts and even makes them laugh. It is a truly exceptional, pioneering work that is worth every kind word it received.	2001-11-03
US	44868072	R22921NZ6RWRZF	1579890148	718583169	Dawn: Lucifer's Halo	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Remarkable	Lucifer's Halo is the remarkable story of one man's spiritual battle with religion. Michael Joseph Lisner's striking art, incomparable symbolism and dialogue, provocative enough to startle, enhance the epic. Darrian Ashoka lives in a surrealistic New York City where the lower class is left to its plundering and filth by an elitist church who have moved to the city's outskirts. During a weekly Saturday night riot, Darrian is approached by Dawn, an enigmatic feminine deity, who invades his bed and provokes his intellect. On their next meeting, Dawn gives him Lucifer's Halo, remaining from his days as an angel. It is a dangerous bridge between Heaven and Hell and Darrian soon finds himself hounded by both sides in a bid for it. Darrian's fight to keep his gift is one of fright, confusion and reckoning. He must overcome fear and anger towards the other side and look deeply into his human soul for strength, truth and the right choice.	2001-10-31
US	44868072	R39G7E69N5J6VI	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Enchanting	Almost everything Florentino Ariza has done in his adult life has been for Fermina Daza, Ariza's young love who shunned him decades ago. Florentino Ariza's devotion has lasted through his rise up the occupational ladder, stagnant disapproval from Fermina Daza's father, several meaningless erotic affairs, Daza's marriage to the stern intellectual, Dr. Jubinal Urbino, and fifty years. This impressive, convincing and charming love story acts as a vehicle for Marquez's vivid descriptive powers. While reading this book one feels as if he or she is smelling the perfumed letters; breathing in the wet, moist mornings; tasting the fried fish and feeling the sticky air. Marquez effectively casts his spell and the reader is ensnared with with Florentino Ariza and his feelings of longing and misery.	2001-10-30
US	44868072	R1PON6JIPH7DZG	0812539087	597779330	Gaia's Toys	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Worth reading	Gaia's Toys is set in a future where severe environmental damage causes a new class of environmental terrorists or \\"ecowarriors\\" to rise up and defend mother nature; where welfare-dependent Americans are forced to undergo cybergenetic surgery, turning their heads into military cyberspace; where cooing, genetically altered mantises act as sedative pets; where nanotech surgery can completely change a person's appearance; where....OK...you get the main idea. The future, presented in this novel is pretty peculiar. Despite an overload of sci-fi concepts, I found Gaia's Toys by Rebecca Ore to be worth reading. Regardless of their vast differences, it's characters, welfare drone, Willie; street kid turned ecowarrior turned programed government spy, Alison, and overcurious scientist, Dr. Rae, are essentially fighting the same battle. Each is trying to keep a hold of his or her humanity in a cold, socially stratified, technology-ruled world where nature has been all but obliterated. Her next novel, Outlaw School, is a better example of Ore's impressive ability to create soulful characters and convincing futuristic settings. I would recommend that book first and, if you enjoy it, Gaia's Toys may interest you.	2001-10-29
US	44868072	R3EGUX5PYYF0QC	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More than a great novel	1984 by George Orwell is the frightening classic about the loss of freedom of thought in a totalitarian society. Judging from the luminous exposition of the world of 1984's structure, found in latter bit of part 2, Orwell scholarlily traced the history of organized society to date and decided upon a strictly terrifying and inhumane future. The author's vision of 1984 (conceived in 1949) is a cold, shocking and quite believable one. The Americas and England are united under the banter of Oceania. Big Brother is the godlike icon that leads Oceania. The Party is its governmental body.  Anything the party says, any moral it promotes, any record of the past (including who has died or who has ever been born) it keeps is correct. One is monitored by the Party at all times and should not find that uncomfortable. If one shows any sign of unorthodoxy, anything but love and obedience to Big Brother and the Party, he or she must doublethink it, let it submerge into the unconscious and be replaced by more appropriate feelings or else he or she has committed thoughtcrime. With the almost omnipotent Party's stringent regulation of thoughts, 1984's protagonist, Winston Smith, feels like a dead man before the narration even begins. Orwell takes readers along Smith's gloomy, hopeless path of deviation, from scribbling of \\"Down with Big Brother\\" in a furtive diary to his falling in love with the spirited, young rebel, Julia to his active mutiny to finally his inevitable detainment and terrifying rehabilitation, a process which takes readers to the black heart of the Party. Not only is 1984 a well paced, masterfully executed narrative, the concepts and principles it explores are awfully universal and still utterly relevant. One could apply Orwell's hypothesis's to both the adulation of figures from the American Revolution and how unquestionable we consider their policies and current events in the U.S. as explained by the exceptional review posted by Jim Brett on October third. 1984 ismore than just a superb novel. It is a warning.	2001-10-29
US	44868072	R11C5X4YAKYZVL	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Latest Moore masterpiece	Prostitutes are at the grimy bottom of the social ladder in almost any society.  Their murders are neither uncommon nor usual causes for alarm, but in 1888, a string of slayings of this loathly population in Whitechapel, one of many atrocious slumps of Victorian London, shook England to its core. The vile acts of Jack the Ripper, the sickening surgery he performed on five whores, made proud English society question what kind of a monster could arise from its cracks. Jack's escapes from the police and an entire city searching for him forced London to question its competency. The wild curiosity the killer, the first tabloid star, drew made England question its taste. The savage and sick nature of his act, the boastful letters he sent to the press and police (one letter contains included a human kidney) caused many to question the entire human condition. In 1888, the first serial killer, that disturbing, shocking, sexually motivated type of killer was unleashed on the world.<br />Over one hundred years after the Ripper killings, Alan Moore, puts the events of autumn 1888 under his literary microscope with a comic book masterpiece, From Hell, and makes them as shocking, stomach-turning and frighteningly thought provoking as they were in 1888, in ever. Moore, a practical Ripper historian who fills forty-two pages of this volume with research notes, analyses the historical, intellectual, societal, psychological and metaphysical importance of the Ripper killings.<br />Moore, joined by appropriately sketchy art of Eddie Campbell, narrates the theory that the cadavers found laying in pieces in Whitechapel once belonged to a gang of prostitutes who bribed the crown with knowledge of a secret marriage between Queen Victoria's grandson and a Catholic commoner. Royal physician, Sir William Gull, disposed of the women and takes a few creative liberties.<br />All characters in From Hell are beyond compelling: Gull, a Freemason and Hannibal Lector-type intellectual who reaches thedarkest regions of the human mind and spirit, which are revealed to also be the most profane. Mary Kelly, Gull's final victum, who is made brutally aware of the futility of her life's station and the harshness of her world as she watches her friends die one by one and waits for her turn. Frederick Abberline, the Scotland Yard inspector assigned to the Ripper case, whose traditional morals of merit are tested as he wades through the steaming dung of society.<br />In most comics, traditional morals are seen as a virtue, but From Hell is no ordinary comic book. It travels down the societal ladder in an attempt to step higher on the philosophical. It is a masterpiece, a gracefully narrated epic that splashes in the grime of history and moral netherworlds with a deep sense of poignancy.	2001-10-25
US	44868072	R2FM206YRHJ6OW	0930289528	333940954	V for Vendetta	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not overly original but still worth reading	England turned into a fascist state ran in several sections by one pollitical party. Loud speakers, blathering false statistics and news to every corner of London. Propaganda trying to control what common people think. A horrifying future where the power of the state means more than the rights of individuals. Yeah, you have heard it all before. Obviously Alan Moore was very inspired by George Orwell's brilliant classic, 1984 when he wrote V for Vendetta. Still, the shaggy genius of comics inserts enough of his own luminous ideas; smooth, cinematic narration and amazing action scenes to make V for Vendetta an intriguing read. The themes of personal responsibility take a larger role in V for Vendetta than they did in 1984 by the way of Evey, a callow teenager from the streets V takes under his caped wing who learns what the laziness and action mean when society tries to keep the common people oppressed. And what about V? Moore and Lloyd's mysterious, theatrical masked anarchist quotes everyone from Shakespeare to the Velvet Underground as he charismatically dashes through the Orwellian world, fooling enemies and dazzling readers. V for Vendetta may be firmly grounded in Orwell's masterpiece but Moore's own creative genius make it a work only one or two notches down from its predecessor.	2001-10-23
US	44868072	R3UCVHJ11EVLKC	0930289455	837360744	Batman: The Killing Joke	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Redefined the Joker	Batman: The Killing Joke redefined the relationship between the costumed hero and his archenemy, the Joker. Hypothesising that one bad day lead to his criminal madness, the Joker attempts prove his theory by tormenting a sane man into a lunatic in twenty-four hours. He chooses Gothan's Commissioner Gordon for his experiment. As more about the Joker, his origins, the cycle within he and Batman are trapped, why he commits his colorful crimes and his inability to reform, the reader actually begins to feel sorry for the famous villian. Although it is too short to dig very deep, The Killing Joke paints a convincing portrait of the Joker as a person.	2001-10-23
US	44868072	RVF6ETWOFSP9C	0192829238	957346967	Mademoiselle Fifi and Other Stories (The World's Classics)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very recomended	Once the reader browses through the descriptions of Mapassaunt's life and philosophies in the roman numbered pages begining this title, he or she knows that the following stories are going to be quite dark. They are and they are also, for the most part, vividly descriptive, intriguing, full of symbolism and extremely memorable. From the incendiary betrayals of \\"Monseiur Parent\\" and \\"the Dowry\\" to gruesome consequences of moral lapses seen in \\"At Sea\\" and \\"the Model\\" to outride incredible savagery of \\"A Vendetta\\" and the title story, this book proves that Maupassant is a master of all things dark, pessimistic and brutal.	2001-10-21
US	44868072	RXS40Q6FT86CT	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Magical Realism	One Hundred Years of Solitude is the Latin American classic which introduced the concept of magical realism, fantastic occurrences told in simple, unexcited prose, as if they were perfectly natural, to the literary world. Can this style keep a reader enchanted for almost 450 pages? No and there are were times when I found myself skimming over details just to get to the next part. Still, Marquez's breakthrough novel is well worth reading. The book captures roughly one hundred years, from the time when, \\"the world so recent that many things lacked names\\" to the age of the first automobiles and movie theaters, in the lives of the Buendia family in the mythic village of Macondo. The six generations of Buendias, whose lives are told in the book with a unique poetic motif for each character, are trapped in an endless maze of death, war, love and search for meaning while the kind of magic, which caused a rain of rose petals to fall during the funeral march of Macondo founder, Jose Arcadio Buendia, gently slips from their world.	2001-10-12
US	44868072	R25CX1HP8BUUKJ	0316769495	551899474	Franny and Zooey	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Pretty good Salinger book	Franny &amp; Zooey by J.D. Salinger examines the youngest children of the Glass family. Like their older brother, Seymour, made famous in Salinger's classic short story, A Perfect Day for Banana Fish and most of Salinger's children, they are gifted, precocious youths who have found ways to be miserable when faced with the task of growing up. While the Zooey, an actor and underachiever by Glass standards prefers to face his personal problems with a stubbornness and wittiness, his younger sister, Franny is waist deep in self-pity because she feels misunderstood and alone and can not find meaning in pretentious and phony upper class college life. Zooey is the perfect person to give Franny the tough love and show her the new perspectives to help her through her dilemmas and that's precisely what he tries to do one morning when he finds her in a weariness-induced sleep on their family couch. Although, it is not a book for readers bored by characters simply lounging around and talking (because that is precisely all they do), Franny and Zooey is a superb exploration of the relationships between adult siblings when they reluctantly leave the nest.	2001-08-24
US	44868072	R1X03V84EH09BR	0441359175	340611713	I Will Fear No Evil	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Did it ever go downhill	Johann Sebastion Bach Smith is a self-made billionaire tycoon, surrounded by an obscenely huge mansion and a small army of servants. And fancy medical wiring is holding his body together. At 95 years old, Smith schemes to be born again by having his brain placed in a corpse, 20-40 years old with his rare AB blood type and no damage except in the brain, thus beings 145 pages of the most amazing, medical science fiction imaginable. Through Heinlein's excellent story-telling, the reader is brought into Smith's strange state of unconscious between life and death as mad scientist and fugitive, Dr. Boyle successfully completes an operation thought impossible and unethical and then disappears into the shady night. Smith slowly reemerges to be startled at the identity of the body's former possessor and to find that she has not completely left yet. It is spine tingling, stark and terrifying. So why the 2 stars? Because the book is 512 pages and what remains is embarrassingly frivolous. The rest of the novel explores such subjects as kissing, menstruation, shopping and female orgasm. The characters have a lot of sex, spend a lot of money, act nauseatingly rich and call each other stomach-turning nicknames. The last two-thirds of the book is mush at best, smut at worst. A return to its original quality, themes and intensity appears in the last chapter, far too late to save this tedious novel.	2001-08-22
US	44868072	RL9MO3Q66H4AA	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Truly Great Science Fiction Novel	It started with a few radio signals. &quot;Rocket Ship, Envoy located. No survivors,&quot; &quot;Mars is inhabited,&quot; &quot;Correction to despatch 23-105: One survivor located,&quot; and soon after Valentine Michael Smith, a human being well into his twenties, saw Earth for the first time and a truly great science fiction novel was off to an impressive start. &quot;Mike&quot; was the child of doomed crew members of the Envoy, a manned expedition to Mars that lost contact with the Earth two decades ago. Raised by Martians and discovered by the Mars exploration, Champion, Mike was a Martian in every sense except the biological. His philosophies, spirituality, strange abilities and seemingly childlike innosence are all products of his environment. Arriving on Earth, the trusting and childlike Mike is hospitalized until his reaction to his new environment can be assumed and caught under a wave of officials trying to figure out what to do with such a strange case. He is rescued from absurd, impersonal, untrustworthy, complicated bureaucracy by newspaper columnist and self-appointed human rights crusader, Ben Caxton and his girlfriend/inside connection, a nurse employed by Mike's hospital, Jill Boardman who deliver Mike into the hands of lawyer/doctor/tycoon/writer Jubal Harshaw, a sly, witty, old intellectual who undertakes Mike's legal problems and general adjustment to his new planet and that's where the book finds its true spirit. While a guest at Harshaw's home, Mike befriends all kinds of secretaries, electronics experts and other people Jubal keeps around for his amusement (a key to the book's relaxed atmosphere) but the man who had never seen another man until his late twenties also tries to &quot;grok&quot; his race, its religious fanaticism, its morals, its laws. Although, the satire of bureaucracy and Harshaw's wit are important parts of the story, its real center is a man with the inner peace of a completely different race asking the deep, metaphysical questions every human being asks his or her self about the truly strange land surrounding him or her. Stranger in a Strange Land is the best type of science fiction, the kind that uses the outer worldly and incredible to explore things earthly and interpersonal.	2001-08-22
US	44868072	R2C5HVZTL3C1FS	0060930314	261656203	Identity: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Explores important issues very well	Chantal is a divorced working woman and a mother to a deceased son. Jean-Marc is her lover. As often happens with lovers, the deeper they fall into the mists of love, the more irrational, quixotic thoughts flow into their heads, not always with the intended results. One of Jean-Marc's shocks the fragile Chantal, already experiencing an identity crisis, over the type of edge, many of us unsatisfied and confused by life both fear and are enticed by by. I've never read a better, more moving account of these romantic archetypes than this short, to-the-point novel.	2001-08-20
US	44868072	R1XFDP3APRCRU8	0060932384	885582594	Immortality (Perennial Classics)	Books	1	6	21	N	N	miserable	Milan Kundera's most widely know and widely read novel, the Unbearable Lightness of Being tells a complex story of love and turmoil with the author's own philosophical annotations, while not always keeping linear narration. Immortality reads like such an experimental novel gone terribly wrong. Instead of gently, unraveling characters with an analytic mind, Immortality finds Kundera sloppily going off on tangents, musing about everything from astronomy to Goethe to the German language and other seemingly random subjects while his characters take a back seat. Not that I would call that a tragedy seeing as they are generally middle-class, middle management, middle age, whiny, bores. The only tragedy is this self-indulgent and pretensious book every saw the light of day without some serious reconstructing. When I move into a college dorm in a week, this is one of only two books from my collection so bad that I plan on just leaving it behind at my parents' house. The other one is leaps and bounds better than Immortality.	2001-08-18
US	44868072	R8SSBDR0ZV45	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	32	37	N	N	Spell-binding	The Unbearable Lightness of Being by Milan Kundera is the uncanny, carefully structured, multi-layered love story I greatly cherished. More than a love story, the Unbearable Lightness is a full exploration into love and human relationships including disappointment, guilt, devotion and how lovers can grow to hate one another.  Tomas is a respected surgeon in Prague, Czechoslovakia, with a die-hard habit of womanizing. Tereza an unhappy, mistreated girl from a small town outside of Prague, is one of his women. Tomas marries her out of a combination of love and pity. Tomas' desire to be a responsible husband creates a conflict with his lifestyle as Tereza's need and adulation of Tomas conflicts with her guilt of changing his lifestyle with Sabina, Tomas's favorite mistress intruding and enjoying it, all creating a spectrum of emotions, all studied and explained from several angles by Kundera, our gentle narrator who simultaneously presents Freudian, metaphysical and historical perspectives. Meanwhile, the book is given a political layer as Communist Russia takes hold of the books' backdrop of Prague.  The Unbearable Lightness of Being is unlike any other book I have read. Kundera dissects emotions with the care of a surgeon and the grace of a maestro. Unbearable Lightness is an unforgettable, lyrical and life-altering novel.	2001-08-17
US	44868072	R3EPD9YFR3F7SV	0553280414	586746552	A Separate Peace	Books	4	2	4	N	N	The evils of youth	Like William Gerald Goling or J.D. Salinger, John Knowles has used mere boys to explore serious themes in this classic novel. Gene, an isolated honor student forges a friendship with his roomate, the sly, charismatic Phineas. Although they are very different, a rivalry and subconscious spite developes between the boys until a boiling point reaches in Gene, causing an action he will be analyzing for the rest of his life. The backdrop of WWII America is perfect for a book which so subtely explores the themes of evil, jealousy and guilt.	2001-08-16
US	44868072	R2Y1V4UW564DPD	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Nevermind the label, the Bell Jar is a just a good book	Many times I have noticed Sylvia Plath's intimate autobiographical novel labeled as a \\"feminist novel\\" or placed in Listmania lists of feminist books. Although, \\"feminism\\" is a term that has been loosely defined, I want to say, \\"Uh-uh.\\" Do a few encounters with jerky men constitute a feminist label? I doubt it. Does its portrayal of a woman being labeled mentally ill and sent to an asylum make it a feminist book? Not if she is. Does a gifted woman writing a harrowing, interesting, well-written novel some kind of achievement for all women? No, although it many be a big step for how literary society views female writers. But that's beside the point, which is the central themes of the book.<br />To me, a feminist book or a feminist anything is something with an agenda, a central theme, calling people to stand up or portraying something preeminent as just or unjust. None of that appears in the Bell Jar's central themes: desperation, depression, pressure. You could overanalyze the book and say the themes stemmed from a male dominated society, but I truly doubt that society or the women it suppresses were a big enough part of the book to say so. The Bell Jar is, if anything, about an inward struggle to come to grips with depression and regaining an interest in life. I think feminists see the beauty of this book and want to assimilate into their agenda. Sorry, no strings attached here. Just a good, thought-provoking and, most of all, moving book.	2001-07-20
US	44868072	RTK4ZSW5MITYL	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Great story told blandly	After a split between he and his wife, writer, Sal Paradise works up the nerve to leave the mundane comforts of his aunt's house in New York for a new life of exploration on the great American highway and falls in love with it. Usually at his side is his soulmate of sorts, Dean Moriarty, a former reform school kid incapable to maintaining responsibilities and leaving his wild life. Jack Kerouac's On the Road recounts several adventures of Sal, loosely based on the author himself and Dean, loosely based on fellow beatnik author Neal Cassady, in five parts.  On the Road is considered a third of the holy trinity of beatnik writings, along with William S. Burrough's Naked Lunch and Allen Ginsberg's Howl and Other Poems. It is the one that certainly portrays the world in which the beat generation lived the best. Kerouac presents a glorious America of unforgettable adventures, interesting living and traveling arrangements and memorable characters for anyone willing to shed their domestic responcibilities and experience it. My favorite scenes include an encounter with strange, drug-addicted deadpan philosopher Old Bull Lee, loosely based on William S. Burroughs; Sal working as a straight arrow among a bad-tempered, white bred police force; Sal and Dean, finally jaded with the American highway, entering Mexico and Dean finding himself at the scrutiny of the wives of the men he tutored to be wanderers.  The catch is Kerouac's expressionless narration, free of any literary elements. The book is simply a recitation. It makes the book a difficult read and not in the challenging ways Howl and Naked Lunch are difficult reads. The book is usually interesting but never gripping. Kerouac may have an interesting story to tell but he is no gifted writer.	2001-06-07
US	44868072	R2D0ALH2HO6TQV	0380792508	624544888	Outlaw School	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Clever and well-written	Ore presents her version of a not-too-implausible future. All information and knowledge is under strict copyright and how much one has access to is determined by their authorized social rank. Computer programs run against \\"meat\\" polliticians. Society gives out medication and even surgery like candy to children with undesirable traits. The book's heroine is Jayne, a middle class kid with unconcerned parents. Alienated at school and showing a thirst for knowledge undesirable for her class, her school prescribes her mind-bending, behavior-modifying drugs. To get off them, she allows herself to be impregnated, which causes even more rejection and disapproval from her society until she is institutionalized. Bitter and enraged by her conformist society, an older Jayne joins an outlawed teacher syndicate, teaching such banned information as the psychology and computer systems to all of society's bottom feeders in the hopes that they can improve their lives through the education society feels it best they not have. This book is a perfect mix of the Bell Jar and 1984. Ore merges a surreal backdrop and many very believable characters, easy to be concerned about. The previously mentioned concept about computer programs running against people for government positions is particularly clever. If we are accepting of our leaders being so obviously coached for public appeal and conformed to the establishment of parties, why not vote for a machine? The situations faced in this book are not only faced by denizens of the early twenty-second century but by all whom hear the first period bell Monday morning. It's honestly the best new book I have read in many, many moths.	2001-06-02
US	44868072	R1WL3GJ72NWJY4	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	15	18	N	N	One to read and reread and reread	Watchmen is often considered the comic book series which brought literary elements such as symbolism, heavy characterization and a basis drawn as much from the author's imagination as the last decade's issues of Time to what is thought as a kid's genre. I have not read comics since I was a kid and I loved the gritty series. Masked vigilantes have guarded high crime areas since the 1930s. Banned in 1977, they withered away or submitted to government supervision with the exception of the violent terror of the underworld, the outlawed Rorschach. It is 1985, the Comedian has been thrown from a building, nuclear superman Dr. Manhattan has been publicly disgraced inspiringm him to leave the planet, Ozzymandias has been shot at and only Rorschach sees an important pattern. But the main plot is just a vehicle to link the individual, flashback filled portrayals of masked heroes in the real world. They interact with actual occurrences as the notorious murder of Kitty Genovese inspired Rorschach to leave his menial job for vigilantism and the appearance of Dr. Manhattan put America in the lead of its nuclear arms race against Russia. They do not always do what is right as the madness of Vietnam inspired the Comedian to gun down a pregnant woman and anyone whose political believes include due process and anti-capital punishment sentiments despises the infamous Rorschach. They symbolize different things as the crime fighter, Ozzymandias turned philanthropist and renaissance man, Adrian Veidt spews Peale-style philosophy and the cold, withdrawn, omnipotent Dr. Manhattan considers if he is to help mankind of loom over it, symbolizing science in the nuclear age. I enjoyed the sharp differences between the characters' philosophies despite being compelled to do the same strange thing for the same goals. Rorschach beats a lowlife criminal timid, thinking \\"New York is dying of rabies. All I can do is wipe random flakes of foam from its lips.\\" Veidt, in turn quit crime fighting becausecrime is \\"a symptom of the overall sickness of the human spirit. I don't believe you can cure a disease by suppressing its symptoms.\\" Moore's sharp writing and ability to create atmosphere are at best as strong personalities filled with underlining clash. In one scene Veidt, the world's strongest Maslow-believer is turned against Dr. Manhattan, \\"the walking H-bomb.\\" \\"I've walked across the sun. I've seen events so small they can barely se said to have occurred at all but you are a man and the world's smartest man means nothing more to me than the world's smartest termite,\\" Manhattan sneers. It is confrontations like this that make this one of Moore's many masterpieces. The book features personalities and circumstance as colorful as the names and costumes of its characters.	2001-06-02
US	44868072	RC7WB1X8QJH93	0316769487	862964341	The Catcher in the Rye	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best book I have ever read	Cynical teenager, Holden Caulfield is expelled from yet another prep school. Deciding to leave early, he spends two days in a void, after his time at this school and before confronting his parents about the rejection. He roams his hometown of New York City, pondering his sketchy future and looking sneeringly at the lot of phonies and conformists that make up the society. The entire book is written in the insignificant tongue and stream-of-conscious of its protagonist whose observations are sharp amd stinging. Many people walk about in an aura of pretense but never really seriously think about it. This book will change that. Every condemnation of a braggy peer, self-absorbed night club crowd, pretentious movie, show-off piano player and the serious consideration that it may be best to just leave the world behind and find a new career in a faraway western town is so sharp and well exaplified. After the Second World War, society called for a return to normalcy, including steady incomes and material status symbols. Salinger is the only writer I have read to display just how much is wrong with that and I am sure anyone reading will see how little the book's themes of psuedointellectualism, clique-monging and celebrity worship have deteriorated. I greatly enjoyed what the book was written about and I also liked how the book was written. In chapter 8, Holden walks from a hotel lobby to a cab. On his way out he thinks about an old friend, her personality, her family, her lips. One feels less like he or she is reading about a walk out to the street, but reading the thoughts of the main character. An irreplaceable book.	2001-06-02
