US	44954499	R1E8XE0EH96OC0	0374179395	35301100	First Great Triumph: How Five Americans Made Their Country a World Power	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An Entertaining, Informative Analysis of the Pax Americana	Zimmerman's First Great Triumph is a welcome dissertation for many reasons. It is both an analysis of the history and aims of American foreign policy and a collection of biographical sketches. It also is a timely commentary on the current state of American foreign policy. Zimmerman's contention, that the United States has entered another phase of world leadership, which requires careful analysis of the true origins of pax Americana, is the most important argument in the book.<br />Zimmerman argues, that American foreign policy starts with five men, for each of whom in the first third of the text he provides a political biography. However, he does not omit other pertinent details. Compared with Morris's two-volume biography of Theodore Roosevelt, Zimmerman's sketches of Roosevelt, Elihu Root, John Hay, Alfred Mahan, and Henry Cabot Lodge are as well written and more focused. Zimmerman also provides shorter accounts of other figures in nineteenth century American history, such as President McKinley and Mark Twain. If nothing else, he makes this period of American history fascinating and central to the rest of American history. Considering the legacies of the five men, through other major figures such as George Kennan, this period should be considered more.<br />Zimmerman also counters the thumbnail argument that American history is divided between realism and idealism. He argues, that from the beginning there were tensions in the conduct of American foreign policy between human rights and stability, depending on which of the five men's policies predominated. Zimmerman also identifies the central importance of the executive branch for the conduct of foreign policy in this period, further highlighted by the working and personal relationships between Senator Lodge and President Roosevelt. <br />Zimmerman is quite frank about the errors these five men committed, especially in Cuba and the Philippines. His insistence, that American foreign policy was more enlightened and consistent with American ideals, will be controversial for many, but hardly unsupported.  Zimmerman provides plenty of information for any student of American history and foreign policy to enter this debate.	2003-01-26
US	44954499	R1X3O3Z5SMCKE7	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	65	68	N	N	An Excellent Introduction with a Critical Perspective	Books about the Middle East concerned less with current headlines, prognosticating, or analyzing policies seem in short supply, but Bernard Lewis's The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years is a welcome departure. Because it predates 9/11, it is more of a scholarly introduction than a cultural or political document. Two aspects of Lewis's The Middle East I appreciated were his historical and geographical framing, and his emphasis on Ottoman history.<br />Although most of the book involves the Ottoman period, because of the volume of original sources, Lewis starts not with Mohammad classical period, but in the pre-classical empires of the Roman Empire and Persia. The perspective illustrates Islam's genius for adapting both indigenous and exogenous alternatives to local problems. Geographically, Lewis stays fixed on Ottoman and Persian territory, with only occasional references to Central Asian, European, African, and Southeast Asian history. This keeps the reader immersed in the region without following Islam's extended borders in other regions.<br />Another aspect I liked was an emphasis on Ottoman history, and not classical Islam. There is entire section on culture, law, religion, and social classes, which acts as an interlude between the early Ottoman Period and modern times. Here he addresses very succinctly and diplomatically many issues relevant to contemporary discussions. Many readers no doubt will be disappointed by his apparent reticence, but he avoids placing the debate in the classical period.<br />Lewis makes a controversial argument that is certainly counter-intuitive and offensive to Muslim fundamentalists. The West has not intervened in the Middle East, except for limited economic and political contacts over short periods. As a matter of fact, if Western countries had supported their limited forays with substantial aid and attention, the region might have benefited. Instead, Lewis blames the marginalization of the Middle East both on the demise of the region as a crossroads between east and west, and on the Muslim governments for not realizing the consequences of this change. Lewis points the finger mostly at Muslims, not the West.<br />The only bad aspect of this book is its length: too short. Although Lewis blames this on the dearth of research on Ottoman official documents, there is certainly more spaces to be filled with information. But Lewis's outline is very fruitful and compelling. It might not satisfy advocates, but it challenges both Muslim and Western proponents to examine their approaches.	2003-01-16
US	44954499	R1DH1KQBCRKZNN	0684832801	837753671	The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years	Books	5	24	27	N	N	An Excellent Introduction with a Critical Perspective	Books about the Middle East concerned less with current headlines, prognosticating, or analyzing policies seem in short supply, but Bernard Lewis's The Middle East: A Brief History of the Last 2,000 Years is a welcome departure. Because it predates 9/11, it is more of a scholarly introduction than a cultural or political document. Two aspects of Lewis's The Middle East I appreciated were his historical and geographical framing, and his emphasis on Ottoman history.<br />Although most of the book involves the Ottoman period, because of the volume of original sources, Lewis starts not with Mohammad classical period, but in the pre-classical empires of the Roman Empire and Persia. The perspective illustrates Islam's genius for adapting both indigenous and exogenous alternatives to local problems. Geographically, Lewis stays fixed on Ottoman and Persian territory, with only occasional references to Central Asian, European, African, and Southeast Asian history. This keeps the reader immersed in the region without following Islam's extended borders in other regions.<br />Another aspect I liked was an emphasis on Ottoman history, and not classical Islam. There is entire section on culture, law, religion, and social classes, which acts as an interlude between the early Ottoman Period and modern times. Here he addresses very succinctly and diplomatically many issues relevant to contemporary discussions. Many readers no doubt will be disappointed by his apparent reticence, but he avoids placing the debate in the classical period.<br />Lewis makes a controversial argument that is certainly counter-intuitive and offensive to Muslim fundamentalists. The West has not intervened in the Middle East, except for limited economic and political contacts over short periods. As a matter of fact, if Western countries had supported their limited forays with substantial aid and attention, the region might have benefited. Instead, Lewis blames the marginalization of the Middle East both on the demise of the region as a crossroads between east and west, and on the Muslim governments for not realizing the consequences of this change. Lewis points the finger mostly at Muslims, not the West.<br />The only bad aspect of this book is its length: too short. Although Lewis blames this on the dearth of research on Ottoman official documents, there is certainly more spaces to be filled with information. But Lewis's outline is very fruitful and compelling. It might not satisfy advocates, but it challenges both Muslim and Western proponents to examine their approaches.	2003-01-09
US	44954499	R7IZN45G8C14U	1563241129	670408461	Peace Under Heaven: A Modern Korean Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Korean Satire With Universal Impact	Chae Man-sik's Peace Under Heaven is a satire worthy of global attention. The story, which takes place in the short span of a few days, with occasional flashbacks, is claustrophobic. Most of the story occurs within the close confines of Korean houses, and efficiently illustrates the relationships in a yang ban family during the Japanese Occupation. Even in translation, the dialogue conveys the characters' materialistic greed, sensual decadence, and petty antagonisms. It's critical edge is directed at Koreans, not the Japanese.<br />The main character, Toad Yun, is an elderly, stingy, profane, lecherous landowner, who resides in the capital, far removed from his property. However, within the confines of his houses are numerous servants, daughters-in-law, grandsons, and concubines, all of whose machinations make the story profoundly hilarious. The main character should be loathsome, but the creatures around him and his past experiences make him believably human and pathetic. He is no better than his ..., indebted offspring and conniving servants and daughters-in-law, but the author manages to make the reader feel sorrier for him. There is a universal concern for inter-generational conflict and misunderstanding.<br />The narrative also has strong cultural and historical tones, mostly critical. The Yun family is presented as a mockery of traditional Confucian virtues and nearly traitorous. It depicts a period in Korean history little understood by non-Koreans. The translation, aided by a glossary of Korean terms, catches the spirit of the language, but is still a little too sanitized. The author treads a thin line between propriety and realism. This is more than a historical novel, and it is not necessary to know Korean history to appreciate it.	2003-01-03
US	44954499	R3OL7PYKJSA7QQ	0824813383	231590074	New God, New Nation: Protestants and Self-Reconstruction Nationalism in Korea, 1896-1937 (Hawai'i Studies on Korea)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Lucid Study of Korean Christian Nationalism	New God, New Nation: Protestants and Self-Reconstruction Nationalism in Korea, 1896-1937 covers an important period in modern Korean history, that is unfortunately both highly pertinent and politicized. Wells investigates the historical, economic, and ideological confluence of protestant Christian theology and nationalistic movements in Korea between the end of the Choson dynasty and the Japanese colonial occupation. Examining various Christian nationalist leaders, such as Cho Man-sik, Yun Chi'ho, and Syngman Rhee, Wells concludes, that the relationship between religion and nationalism is problematic.<br />More than Wells's ultimate thesis, the book is a lucid, much needed study of the limitation of Korean nationalism in the face of Korean and Japanese resistance. The study includes a discussion of the March First movement and the rise of socialist alternatives to Christianity. Wells attempts to defend Korean nationalism for its apolitical nature, while stressing the difficult task of creating Christian communities by reconstructing moral individuals from the bitter, forlorn Korean masses. Wells also examines the practical sphere of cultural nationalists, like Kim Sonsu,  who prospered in business, but were accused of collaboration with the Chosen Government-General. Briefly, he also examines the role of foreign missionaries in the major Korean communities.<br />Although the book is concerned with a theological subject,  namely, the relationship between nationalism and religion, it is more helpful as a Korean history text. The dearth of good English-language materials with access to Korean-language sources frustrates a balanced and non-politicized discussion of Korean development. Wells's portraits of numerous Korean nationalists are fair and illuminating. Wells also advances the thesis, that both the New Village Movement (sae maul undong) and the Self-Sufficiency (juche) ideology are offshoots of the reconstruction ideology.<br />This book is for advanced studentsof Korean studies and theology, not for beginners. It is also well-written, but fortified with some precise argumentation only experts would appreciate. But for those with a good knowledge of Korean history history, theology, and economics, it is a fresh glance at a very important chapter in Korean history. It is also a window on current events on the peninsula, which does not seem to have advanced much beyond 1937.	2002-12-12
US	44954499	R11S894G0N27CY	1574883348	163073287	This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History, Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	9	10	N	N	An Excellent Introduction Riddled With Typos	This Kind of War: The Classic Korean War History is both a comprehensive history of the 1950-1953 Korean War, and also a window into contemporary events on the Korean peninsula. It is also an historical document itself, for Cold War and U.S. Army historians alike. First published in 1963, before the end of the Vietnam War and the end of military conscription, it points out why the United States is best served by a professional army.<br />The narrative begins on Sunday, June 25, 1950, but then deftly returns to the preceding 50 years of the Japanese colonial period. Fehrenbach treats the war in two phases: maneuver phase (June 1950-1951); and stalemate (1951-1953). Really two wars, the conflict settled into an agonizing contest of diplomatic wills, where small units scrapped for pieces of mountainous terrain while negotiators quibbled over the POW issue. Fehrenbach highlights the stories of non-commissioned officers and field officers during key battles to illustrate the changing fortunes of the war. The author's command of military history makes the battle narrations particularly poignant. But Fehrenbach also recounts the stories of United Nations prisoners in North Korea and the United Nations POW camp on Geoje Island.<br />Fehrenbach consistently argues and illustrates, that American troops were generally unprepared both psychologically and physically to fight against the North Koreans and Chinese. He also argues, that this lack of preparedness resulted in the deaths not only of soldiers in the field but prisoners in the camps. He also criticizes the Doolittle Commission, which recommended changes in the leadership structure following the Second World War, and budget cutbacks for serious inadequacies in training and equipment.<br />This Kind of War, marketed as a 50th anniversary edition, is riddled with typographical and grammatical errors, which distract from the flow of the text. Fehrenbach's argument is also burdened with anti-communist diatribes, which punctuate his valid discussions of leadership and training inadequacies, but distract from the story flow. Although some discussion of the political squabbles between liberal containment hawks and anti-communists is warranted, Fehrenbach descends into jingoism with single sentence slogans.<br />This Kind of War is an indispensable introduction to the Korean War, which balances all aspects of the war. It also is a political document, which is still used by contemporary officers to punctuate the need for preparedness in the ranks. It also contains easy-to-read maps, a concise chronology of the war, and a catalog of equipment each side used.  It also is insightful as a guide to the diplomatic history of the DPRK-US relationship, still currently being played out.	2002-12-01
US	44954499	R2YG7NH64CE1ES	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Excellent Political Biography	Edmund Morris' Theodore Rex is drenched with action, from trains to bear hunts to rock climbing in Western Maryland. With a Jamesian knack for prose, Morris saturates this highly readable biography about Theodore Roosevelt's presidential years, from McKinley's assassination in 1901 to Taft's Inaugural of 1908, in layers of deft prose. The narrative vividly recreates early twentieth century America, with glances at all sections of the population. At the center of the narrative, though, is always Roosevelt.<br />Morris makes two essential points about Roosevelt, which he repeatedly emphasizes through his episodic narratives. First, Roosevelt's conservatism sought to maintain equilibrium between interests. Second, Roosevelt was quintessentially a man of action, even if he possessed prodigious powers of intellect and persuasion.  Morris arranges his narrative chronologically, but the momentum of his argument increases until Roosevelt's departure from Washington provides a tidy end.<br />Morris brilliantly devises fitting metaphors for his discussions. He starts his narrative about conservation with a hunting trip, where Roosevelt notices the dearth of birds. Railroads, however, provide the most fitting metaphor for the entire narrative. Beginning and ending with two superb accounts of train voyages, railroads, like Roosevelt, were fast and powerful. But railroads also provided Roosevelt an historical opportunity to wrestle the corporations into government authority, and also played a role in resolving a coal miner's strike. Calculating a train's pace through the isthmian mountains also allowed Roosevelt to coordinate a revolution in Panama. <br />Purposefully having bought the book to find out Roosevelt's attitude about the Russo-Japanese War, for which negotiations he won the Nobel Peace Prize. Morris's account of the Philippine War, the Yellow Peril scandals, and the Portsmouth negotiations make his dismissal of the Koreans all the more callous. Roosevelt, more than any of his contemporaries, was concerned about racial issues. The only explanation Morris's account leaves is, that Korea fell short of Roosevelt's need for balance and action. Roosevelt's decisions reveal a practical political philosophy midway between idealism and balance of power realism.<br />Like James, however, Morris's prose is slippery and deceptive. His account of the 1907 Brownsville Incident, the only tactical mistake of the Roosevelt Administration, is ambiguous. Like a train, Morris just allows the narrative to roll forward, crushing the scandal under the weight of history.  His accounts of the Roosevelt family are also ambiguous and selective. Morris can be critical about the children's personalities, but about Roosevelt's paternal abilities Morris is relatively quiet. The account is solidly devoted to Roosevelt's political life, and is not merely an installment in his life.	2002-10-21
US	44954499	RUJBD90R70K1C	0374123543	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Neither Exhaustive Nor Critical	Roy Jenkins's Churchill: A Biography is propelled for 912 pages by the dynamic power of Winston Churchill, but the author does not exhaust the subject matter, nor shake him down. Although there are no apparent gaps in the narrative, and few could forgive an author for devoting so much space to Churchill's Second World War premiership, still there are dates passed more frequently than others. For instance, I was very interested in his juvenile years, which Jenkins does not tackle squarely, and was disappointed by the coverage of the inter-war years, and Churchill's retirement. Most importantly, what was the full story of Churchill's actual beliefs? Americans might not find his monarchical romanticism, his conservatism, and martial skill so favorable without such an account as Jenkins's.<br />Jenkins's greatest strengths are his recreations of parliamentary debate drama and the exchange of letters. The tome includes a handy reference to parliamentary procedure and jargon for those unaccustomed to the tradition, but even then, in his narratives, rarely frames the settings adequately. Perhaps because of his epistolary skill, Jenkins is much more comfortable with the analysis of words than with depicting a scene. Jenkins so liberally quotes from private correspondence, the book is liable to drift into innuendo, were it not for his judicious editing. However, one has to wonder, if perhaps certain persons might have been cheated by their inability to write good memoranda and letters. Jenkins does, though milk the most out of a bon mot or clever exchange of ideas, and fortunately (because they are so frequent and large), these passages are very entertaining.<br />This skill with the written word, however, does not give the book intellectual weight. This is not a good political biography, particularly, considering the almost total exclusion, outside of India, of Asian concerns. Although there is a world outside of Churchill, the book suffers from certain solipsism. For instance, Jenkins argues that Churchill's passion during his second premiership was the threat of nuclear annihilation. Jenkins, however, offers little background about whom and what political proposals Churchill was battling. Even in his coverage of the Second World War, Jenkins only gives background where Churchill is located. There is also the impression, that Jenkins is handicapped when there is more action than letter writing. Another consequence of his reliance on letters and lack of intellectual depth is an inability to make convincing suppositions about Churchill's actions without direct quotes. In fairness, though, Jenkins's references are vast and constitute almost another book worth exploring. <br />Although Jenkins does allow others to paint a less-appealing picture of Churchill, his epistolary skill recreates an enigma of Churchill's persona. He convincingly describes a dynamic, multi-faceted man who enjoyed power without abusing it, but does not have the space and skill to be critical, too. Jenkins is honest about his admiration for Churchill, but one is left with the impression, that in the quiet spaces lays an answer to the riddle of Churchill's enigmatic persona or some skeleton. Although his bibliography and references are competent, Jenkins does not integrate them into his portrait. As if he were painting a canvas bundled with a rough sketch, Jenkins nonetheless draws the reader to his Churchill with his favorable side showing. Unfortunately, Churchill was too consumed in his own projects to be the trustworthy, self-revealing type.	2002-10-02
US	44954499	RRT3Y4QF51ILS	0811717631	403753378	No Gun Ri: A Military History of the Korean War Incident	Books	5	19	24	N	N	An Authoritative Analysis and Historical Reconstruction	No Gun Ri: A Military History of the Korean War Incident is a excellent work of sound scholarship and public service. In 1999, a team of Associated Press (AP) reported won a Pulitzer Prize for a news story that was not news, and was not entirely true. Robert L. Bateman, though, offers much more than an analysis of the AP story, \\"The Bridge at No Gun Ri\\". No Gun Ri: A Military History of the Korean War Incident, which destroys the reputation of both the AP and its misguided historical theorizing, has elements of historiography, military history, and personal narrative.  <br />If one only reads the concluding chapter of Bateman's book, the flaws so disturbingly apparent in the AP's story are blown wide open. But Bateman also uncovered the fraudulent nature behind the four witnesses` story, which formed the core of the AP story. He also documents his efforts to obtain documents through the Freedom of Information Act, and his correspondence with the AP reporters. Not only were the AP reporters creating a news story that was actually an historical interpretation, they scorned Bateman`s, a trained historian, collaboration. Bateman's account of the AP story's \\"hero\\", Edward Daily is chilling. <br />Bateman delivers a neat, detailed reconstruction of the events of July 25-29, 1950, when the 2nd Battalion, 7th Cavalry Regiment killed in self-defense, not as part of a pre-meditated massacre, approximately at most thirty-five Korean civilians, at least two of whom, according to Bateman, were most likely armed South Korean Communist guerrillas. To support his contention, Bateman takes the readers through the history of the 7th Cavalry Regiment, military doctrine, the history of journalism, and Korean history. As a former officer of the unit and an associate professor at West Point, Bateman's intimate knowledge of American military procedures lends authority to his reconstruction. The book also contains transcripts of the AP story and the executive summary of the United States No Gun Ri Review, several maps, photographs, 33 pages of notes, and a bibliography, including interviewees. <br />This strength, however, is also the book's greatest weakness. Considering the political divisiveness of the issue, such a partisan identification is a handicap. Also, Bateman admits he does not know Korean, and so did not interview the Korean witnesses, who were suing for compensation, the AP interviewed. Working with translated transcripts of their testimonies, he undermines even the minutest pieces of information in them. Bateman discredits the AP's massacre theory succinctly. No Gun Ri: A Military History of the Korean War Incident is one of the most clear-headed works of analysis and history about Korea, and I hope its evident clarity and quality will dispel misconceptions and animosity.	2002-09-16
US	44954499	RKOUMMDQJA954	0062508865	527800309	Muhammad: A Biography of the Prophet	Books	4	9	14	N	N	A Theoretical, But Not Intimate, Defense of the Man	Karen Armstrong's Muhammad is a prose masterpiece, mixing theory and history expertly, but as a biographical document it is missing a few pieces. The service the author brings to the subject is notable, but  I'm left with questions, which the author should have tried to answer. Armstrong's intent is, to provide a readable, accurate, and approachable portrait of Islam's founder, and she accomplishes this difficult task.<br />Armstrong's Muhammad is glimpsed through the lens of western prejudices as they are dispelled. Where there was a culture alien to Christendom, Armstrong, especially in the first chapter, Armstrong constructs sociological and cultural bridges to dispel outright slanders committed by a millennium's worth of commentators. Presenting Muhammad and his wives as a microcosm of the society Muhammad created, she both foreshadows the divisions in the post-Muhammad political world and undermines the slander that the founder of Islam was misogynistic, abusive, or lecherous. She analyzes Muhammad's political tactics, to defend him from contentions of abuse of power and bloodlust.  She defends him against the opportunism of exploiting a written religious fake by portraying his illiteracy. And her portrait of Muhammad salvages Islam from charges of lack of theological depth, modern relevance, or virtue.<br />Armstrong presents all of the facts of Muhammad's life straightforwardly and without noticeable partisan prejudice. Her narrative does not stray beyond the founder's death. However, in the midst of providing very compelling reasons for Muhammad's legitimacy, she neglects the issue of his authorship. Aside from references to trances and the status of poets in Arabic society, Armstrong does not explore validity of the sacred text Muhammad presented. She accepts Muhammad's assertion that the Qur'an is divine, or at least leaves the impression that it is, because no other explanation fits. How did an illiterate man with no poetic gift complete the Qur'an? Armstrong does not tackle the issue honestly.<br />As a biography, Armstrong's presentation is heavy on sociology, history, mythology, and cultural studies, but her portrait is two-dimensional. This is  not an intimate or chronological account. It is a defense against the slanders, in great part motivated by Rushdie's Satanic Verses, from non-Muslims against Muhammad. The narrative dances from Muhammad's life to a theories to the modern world, admittedly seamlessly. This book is the first salvo fired for more research, but Armstrong does present a good case for continuing.	2002-07-28
US	44954499	R2GK00NXD5OS2R	0679640401	166313123	Islam: A Short History	Books	3	31	38	N	N	Only Worth The First 139 Pages	The most important aspect of Islam: A Short History is its length. Having now read this volume in the A Modern Library series and two volumes in the Penguin Lives series, I am starting to see the limitations of the endeavor to produce slim, inexpensive volumes. Although Armstrong's Buddha is not affected by the editorial constraints of these throwbacks to the Everyman books, Islam: A Short History is. But there are also problems with the argument, too.<br />In the first four chapters, Armstrong's coverage of the Islamic world is comprehensive and efficient. As in A History of God (HG), she makes a valid point: Muslims interpret the legitimacy of Islam by its worldly effects. Therefore, politics and religion are difficult to distinguish by using a western interpretation based on the Christian separation of God and world. Islam is also about practice, not belief, which is again a Christian interpretation. So, for instance, when Mehmed II conquers Constantinople, it is a ringing endorsement of Islamic legitimacy, but the British in India causes defensiveness. Armstrong also has an interesting line on the limitations of the Shariah: it is an antiquated pre-modern agrarian code ill-equipped for the industrial age. Until page 141, Armstrong has accomplished her task, but then in the last chapter, it unravels.<br />Already, in her discussions of the Ottoman Empire, centuries flow past at warp speed, but the last chapter is completely unlike the preceding four. Where before the book was history spiced with commentary, the last chapter is editorial littered with dates. Basically a quick and dirty discussion on jihad, the last chapter is theological, not historical. In the preceding four chapters, Armstrong again, as in HG, respectfully presents numerous scholars, like Ibn Sina and Ibn Rushd, but the last chapter is a defensive apology for various jihad commentators, such as Sayyid Qutb and Mawdudi. Armstrong valiantly tries to salvage the good in Islam from the damage wrought by these scholars' followers. However, she completely abandons history for commentary. Plugging dates and people may be pedestrian, but a source text for beginners should just provide basic facts without boring the reader.<br />Armstrong provides a handy index, maps, a glossary, an index of key figures, and endnotes, but her reading suggestions also suffer from the faults of the last chapter: too much breadth and not enough scrutiny. Those wanting more theology need only look here for help. The editorial limits of the series are probably responsible for the breadth of the last chapter's focus, but  judging from the reading suggestions, it may have also saved us from a longer commentary. Armstrong's prose is as deft and inspired as always, but she loses her nerve in the last chapter. If I forget the last chapter, I can endorse this little book. But, the book very nearly inspires me to continue studying, if only to refute Armstrong's half-hearted editorializing.	2002-07-18
US	44954499	R3NL1MT5TFAKW	0465007201	758212963	The Savage Wars Of Peace: Small Wars And The Rise Of American Power	Books	5	17	22	N	N	An Expert Critique of the Powell Doctrine and Isolationism	The Savage Wars of Peace: Small Wars and the Rise of American Power is both polemic and history by a new, independent contributor. Most of the text includes expert prose narrating some of the more obscure events in world history across a dizzying span of time from the founding of the American Republic to the September 11 terrorist attacks. Like so much recent commentaries, 9/11 gives the argument greater importance. Max Boot argues, that small wars, often undeclared and with no clear purpose or exit strategy, have comprised most of the American military record and have contributed most to the Pax Americana. Drawing on stories of Americans from Decatur to Farragut to Butler, Boot recovers a sense of  the American character more realistic than Hollywood  movies.<br />Boot's audience clearly are isolationist and unilateralist elements within the political establishment, for whom he delivers a critique of the Powell Doctrine. Boot assumes, that America needs to be a global sheriff, as it has for almost two centuries through small wars. Boot argues, that the resistance to a more visible international role stems from erroneous lessons learned from the Vietnam War. First, Boot argues, that political leaders in Washington and senior commanders, like Westmoreland, fought a large war, when they should have learned from the history of small wars and conducted a counter-insurgency campaign. The resulting loss of nerve conditioned military leaders to eschew small wars, the overwhelming staple of military combat previously, for large set-piece wars where overwhelming force could be deployed. Also, after conducting two successful large wars in World War Two and Korea, the United States forgot the lessons, previous soldiers had learned in small wars.<br />Boot also argues, that American reluctance to conduct humanitarian missions and nation-building is also another legacy of Vietnam. However, before that, the United States had trained police forces, conducted civil affairs training, and health campaigns as a part of successful counter-insurgency campaigns in Asia and the Caribbean. American troops had even served under foreign commanders in such places as China, where the United States maintained a presence on and off for a century. When opportunities arose in the 90's for similar missions, American troops had little experience and military leaders were too reluctant to stay the course.<br />Implicit in Boot's argument is the assumption, that the United States' various campaigns contributed to world peace and the rule of law. His discussions of Caribbean campaigns in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, and Nicaragua highlight the role of the Marines in construction, disease eradication, and police reform. He takes issue with the view, that the United States was merely protecting business interests. In the longest and most controversial counter-insurgency war against Filipino rebels, Boot highlights the benefits of American efforts, even considering the brutal military tactics employed.<br />Boot's narrative is buttressed with impressive accounts of colorful American and indigenous personalities, 30-odd pages of endnotes, an index and bibliography. His prose is competently lively and analytical. Aside from an awkward chapter on the Marine Small Wars Manual, his argument is expertly rendered. And his argument is never more needed, as the United States embarks on low-intensity counter-insurgency campaigns in numerous countries.	2002-07-13
US	44954499	R3F0PVN6NLSME1	0670891932	767275402	Buddha (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Like Sitting At the Master's Knee	Reading Karen Armstrong's Buddha reminds me of the many statues of Buddha throughout East Asia I have gazed at. Like those sculptures, I wonder if this biography is faithful to Siddhartha Gautama in any way. In some inscrutable way those sculptures always lead me to meditations about myself or at least Buddhism. Any temple can contain hundreds of representations of the Buddha, from the future one to the original, across eras and cultures. The laymen can appreciate each viscerally, but each always leads to a less selfish contemplation. And so too does this book. <br />Having only read fragments of sutra, including the Dhammapada, a few Korean commentaries on the Diamond Sutra, and a general introduction to Asian philosophy, I am no authority on the doctrinal minutiae of the Buddhist canon. More importantly, Armstrong writes a history of Buddhism, not a commentary. She tries to situate the Buddha in a certain locality in an era. I would welcome more information about India, but what Armstrong gives is enough to understand the young man's decision to abandon his family. She also admirably places Buddhism in the context of the other Axial Age religions, like prophetic Judaism and Hinduism. <br />Armstrong admits that writing a biography of the Buddha when Buddhists seek to overcome individuality seems questionable. But now that Buddhism has reached such sophistication in its organization and doctrine, reconstructing the Buddha's original decisions is helpful. Without some definite information, it is easy to accept any one school's programme for dogma. A non-practitioner's view is more believable. This book levels the playing field. The conversations between the Buddha and Ananda are very meaningful in this context. Ananda, the Buddha's companion, was unable to overcome his self, unlike hundreds of other disciples, even if he understood doctrine impeccably and was the Buddha's personal attendant. Even a perfect grasp of scripture is insufficient for salvation.<br />Armstrong describes the distinction between the Buddha's teachings and those of his teachers. The descriptions of the contest between the Buddha and Devadetta are also revealing. The book is not only instructive for those looking for answers about Buddhism, but also about other religions, and the sections on Devadetta reveal much about the relationship between Jesus and Judas Iscariot. However, I was not convinced by Armstrong's discussion of the role of females in Buddhist communities, though she admits the difficulties honestly. Just as the book leaves the reader to make a decision for him/herself about other doctrines, the reader either accepts Armstrong's argument or not. I cannot decide if this issue taints Armstrong's argument or Buddhism as a whole. <br />Armstrong deserves credit for immersing herself in a religious tradition and language alien to most. She is almost excessively scrupulous without sacrificing authority. Her prose is economical, lucid, and lively. She provides unobtrusive endnotes and a glossary of terms also. Buddha is not a substitute for studying sutra, practicing right conduct, and meditation, but it is light enough not to burden an individual. It also provides the means to liberate oneself from ignorance about basic facts without yoking one to a specific programme.	2002-07-10
US	44954499	R1NP8IIKUHTHOI	0765602504	347284854	The World That Trade Created: Culture, Society and the World Economy, 1400-1918 (Sources and Studies in World History)	Books	4	22	25	N	N	More Than Just Facts	The World That Trade Created: Society, Culture, and the World Economy 1400 to the Present is similar to recent cultural histories of seemingly unimportant topics like germs and the senses. There is a treasure trove of tiny facts that amaze, but do amount to an argument. The authors in very concise, cross-referenced articles set out on an ambitious project. They reject western triumphal without resorting to anti-imperialism, to reconstruct the world economy as it was before western science turned history to science.<br />The authors humorously undermine the teleological notion of an impersonal, dismal science of economics by producing counter-intuitive examples of irrational, political, and cultural policies. Little questions assume global importance. Any belief in market forces is reduced to tatters under the weight of facts, like railroad track gauges, coffee beans, and chocolate. This agenda gives the individual subjects, each the subject of it's own study in other places, coherence.<br />I sometimes found the organization of information annoying, however. Although well annotated and cross-referenced, a more chronological or geographical standard would be preferable. Although zooming from one end of the globe to another through centuries does achieve an effective de-westernizing quality, it seems repetitive and blurs the main argument. However, the reader is left with the strong impression of a very multi-faceted, multivalent world slowly reduced to western sterility.<br />However, this book is entertaining just for the individual sections, and the reader will never look at coffee or tea the same way again. So many myths are exploded in this book; its title should be more explosive too. The authors do a very good job of making economics light.	2002-07-10
US	44954499	R160PGW3CU2FD1	0812693949	207813108	The Democracy of the Dead: Dewey, Confucius, and the Hope for Democracy in China	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Two Books In One	Democracy of the Dead: Dewey, Confucius, and the Hope for Democracy in China is an impressive attempt at dialogue between Confucianism and American Pragmatism on the subject of fostering democratic reforms in China. It is both a history of philosophy text, highlighting Dewey's thought and subsequent Pragmatist scholars, liberalism, and Confucianism, and a polemic about the limitations of liberal thought in China. Although some acquaintance with the texts interpreted by the authors is recommended, the authors' synopses are trustworthy and ably and judiciously given. There are also generous quotes and and a and a nine-page bibliography provided. <br />Admittedly, I was skeptical about the authors' project, which seemed like a desperate attempt to bridge two subjects, pragmatism and Confucianism, that are both equally unprofitable, with a popular item in the news, China. I wanted an appealing interpretation of Confucianism, that would allow me to understand the cultural divide between east and west more easily. I was also interested in any study about pragmatism, which, as the authors also argue, deserves more respect. Last, I wanted a framework to understand Korean and western dialogue, since Korean interpretations of Confucianism are also relevant to Chinese reform historically, and are also a factor in Korea's relations with western countries. The book satisfied my demands more than satisfactorily.<br />Some readers may be angered by the authors' use of Deweyan Pragmatism to criticize traditional liberalism, but the authors have good reason. Dewey did have a small role in Chinese educational reform before the Communist Party assumed control in 1949. Dewey, and pragmatism in general, are both better exemplars of distinct American realities than liberalism. Also, using pragmatic terms, the authors couch Confucian concepts in a way more palatable and approachable.<br />The authors argue, that a Confucian interpretation of democracy is possible. This Confucian democracyis useful as a tool for political reform. And then, by using Deweyan thought, it is possible for Chinese and American reformers to share ideas for reform in both countries. The book, therefore, is ultimately a practical one.<br />The authors eschew nationalistic and philosophical bias, which is necessary for productive dialogue. This is not a book that celebrates western values over eastern ones.  It has relevance also in Korea, yet, ironically, it will not convince Americans of the need for reform in their own country, especially if readers refuse to abandon implicit faith in liberal thinking. This is not a book about dead things, but a very lively, well-written, timely offering..	2002-06-13
US	44954499	R2X446CVNN2EQA	0345384563	286200112	A History of God: The 4,000-Year Quest of Judaism, Christianity and Islam	Books	5	12	15	N	N	An Archaeology Expedition for "God"	A History of God is a personal, yet informed, logically sound, wide-ranging, yet mercifully selective, and pragmatic account of four millennia of events and debate surrounding the god of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. Karen Armstrong's thesis is not metaphysical; she does not try to prove the existence of any type of god or the validity of any denomination, program, or vision. The book is also not encyclopedic; numerous scholars have offered views not included here (although she graciously includes 10 pages of bibliography, 17 pages of endnotes, a seven-page glossary, and a 24-page index). Armstrong's book is a history of how Jewish, Christian, and Muslim commentators (it is, in this sense, elitist) have attempted to make \\"God\\" work for believers throughout four millennia.<br />Her orientating point is West Asia, with occasionally significant glances at Europe and North Africa. This is not a universal account, by any means. Armstrong's use of the word, \\"oikumene\\", identifies her focus as more political and economic than theological. The \\"God\\" in the title is limited to a region of the world centrally situated between India and Europe. One of the most fascinating results of this orientation, is that Western, Augustinian, Christianity is peripheral to the original ferment occurring in the center. After giving Augustine his due, Armstrong slights Western Christianity, which still gets more space than Buddhism and Hinduism, both inserted to give fair credit for inspiring several developments in the story. <br />For whatever reason, personal or scholarly, therefore, Christianity is ironically placed in the third position in the roll call of Judaism, Islam, and Christianity. Just as recent scholars and commentators on the subject of globalization have done, Armstrong traces the linkages between Islam in the early middle ages and Europe, and then discusses how the shift during the industrial age affected Judaism and Islam. To reset the balance caused by western industrialization, she purposefully overcompensates with Muslim and Jewish material. If it seems that a great deal of Christian developments are forgotten or abbreviated, it only highlights how industrialization, armed with Christianity, marginalized west Asian society. <br />Armstrong's argument rests on this geographical point. For whatever reason Europe embraced Augustine, it abandoned and ridiculed approaches, that Jewish, Orthodox Christian, and Islamic authors had developed, which Armstrong wants to recover for contemporary, personal, and inter-denominational benefit. But the prejudices accumulated by industrialization and the offshoots of Augustinian Christianity make understanding difficult.<br />What Armstrong wants to recover, is a more mystical, tolerant, and creative, less transcendent, vengeful, personal approach to \\"God\\". Beginning with her discussions of the primitive Yahweh cult and the Jewish prophets, Islamic Falsafah, and then again in her section on mystics, Armstrong attacks the notion of a God as just another being like us. Accenting with developments in Buddhism and Hinduism, she builds the conceivable outlines of a mystical monotheism, only to witness western traders and missionaries undermine the society fermenting this vision.  Armstrong is trying to salvage what she can from the obliteration in 396 pages. <br />A History of God is not a half-baked theology, flawed pilgrimage, or a cynical hack's grasp for bestseller status. It's another expression of the consequences of globalization during western-led industrialization. Only instead of seeking answers in trade figures and labor statistics, Armstrong tries to resurrect the shards of a vision of  \\"God\\".	2002-06-01
US	44954499	R2CK10RU9PANQL	0195154355	511670641	Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam	Books	5	30	48	N	N	A Passionate Plea for Dialogue	John Esposito's Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam is a scholarly, polemical essay about the meaning of jihad and the most useful responses to its proponents. Immediately, Esposito introduces the figure of Osama bin Laden as the most recent in a long and by no means linear line of Muslim advocates of holy war. Esposito sketches, in a brisk 160 pages, these genealogies both biographically and theologically, introducing three advocates more acceptable than Bin Laden, and also argues, that a dialogue between Islam and the West requires a discussion of the political and economic realities of the Muslim world.<br />Esposito maps four historical ways of advocating holy war, and then identifies bin Laden as merely the latest and most derivative of only one approach. Discussing more the history of Islamic civilizations than theology, he starts with Muhammad's legacy, including Islam's schism into Sunni and Shii factions. From the Kharijites and Assassins, Ibn Taymiyyah, al-Wahhab, al-Banna, and Mawlana Mawdudi to the Jamaat-I-Islami and Hamas, Esposito gracefully traces the elements of holy war bin Laden has, with his anti-Soviet experience, college education, and charisma, distilled into his own approach. <br />Esposito, however, showcases positive examples of modern figures deserving of credit and attention, such as President Khatami of Iran, former President Wahid of Indonesia, and Anwar Ibrahim. Using these representative figures, he argues, that Islam is not anti-democratic. He also points out correctly that the history of Judaism and Christianity is similarly burdened with violence, and, that Islam deserves a chance to evolve similarly. His argument is buttressed with 8 pages of notes, including online and print sources, a useful glossary of Muslim terms, and an index.<br />Esposito consistently condemns a simplistic view of Islam based on theology or political orientation. He examines each thinker, movement, or organization in terms of his response to the political and economic conditions of their time and place. Eschewing extremists who undermine dialogue with western countries, he passionately and briefly elucidates Islamic thought and culture. Esposito shows, that a scholar can provide a well-informed opinion on current events, which contributes to mutual understanding.	2002-05-22
US	44954499	R1U7SDSBBRVP51	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Old Thinking For America's Future	The most useful way to look at Nye's extended essay, The Paradox of American Power, is, in his own terms, as an \\"editor\\" or source of information. Unfortunately, that is another way of compensating for, what these days is missing in American debates: sound and open-minded thinking with conviction. But Nye also gives the reader two enduring arguments: the difference between hard and soft power, and the metaphor of the three-dimensional chessboard.<br />The bulk of Nye's essay is composed of responses to arguments previously offered by other commentators. It is easiest to see Nye's essay in the negative by reference to the contemporary arguments he cites. He is not isolationist, multilateralist, nor a unilateralist. Nye also gives his essay historical depth, with references to Roman, Athenian, and British history. The essay is also buttressed with 33 pages of notes and 15 pages of index, covering an impressive list of publications and periodicals.<br />Nye discusses most the topics of the information revolution and globalization, alluding to American military might, but not allowing that to outweigh the first two. To conceptualize the relationship between the three, he uses the metaphor of a three-dimensional chessboard. Because of this metaphor, his essay is the least Americo-centric of any discussion on this subject.<br />Nye most important contribution and single-most identifiable idea is his distinction between hard and soft power. Although American military might is impressive, Nye sees soft power as more lasting and compelling, and the one area, in which American influence is wanting. As recent arguments with Europe over trade and the steel tariffs dispute shows, battles over things other than military are messier than clearing caves in Afghanistan.<br />No doubt partisans will label Nye's essay for domestic political consumption, but Nye has navigated the rough seas of academic writing and modern polemics well. It eschews apocalyptic warnings of future doom, aswell as avoiding triumpalism. The essay itself is an example of why Americans still have influence and wisdom in the world to impart. The Paradox of American Power is a light, quick read, but it has relevance, magisterial power, and, even, prophetic force.	2002-05-19
US	44954499	R20VXGGRKKBNT5	0714652563	254793027	The Tide at Sunrise: A History of the Russo-Japanese War, 1904-05	Books	5	26	27	N	N	A Big Book About A Little War	Denis and Peggy Warner's The Tide at Sunrise: A History of the Russo-Japanese War, 1904-5 is an excellent history of this pivotal event in Asian, and world, affairs. Drawing on the histories of two distinct antagonists, Russia and Japan, as well as military, political, and diplomatic events, it is vividly descriptive, balanced, and prophetic. The Warners start with the assumption, that readers wrongfully would dismiss the brief war as insignificant, and convincingly prove, how this little war changed the world. From the evocation of Pearl Harbor in the first chapter, the book still resonates today, post 9/11.<br />The Russo-Japanese War, along with the American Civil War and World War One, showed how much technology had changed military science. Additions, such as machine guns and naval plating, made traditional tactics obsolete and deadly. Japanese officers also outperformed their Russian opponents, and fortune persistently favored the Japanese, in the form of freak weather patterns and unforeseen logistical planning. The book provides a useful introduction to the unfortunate journey of the Russian Baltic Fleet defeated at Tsushima. Appalling descriptions of the interactions of bodies and modern weapons, as well as the effects of the Manchurian winter, add color to dry tactics. The narrative structure of the writing, alternating from the Japanese to the Russian side, highlights the flow of events and the errors in judgment in a war before modern communication and satellites, but with torpedoes and siege guns. <br />There is also the discussion of the Japanese use of irregular forces. From the intelligence activities of Colonel Akashi in St. Petersburg, which facilitated revolution, to the indigenous, Manchurian Chunchus cavalry and secret society agents acting as agents provocateurs, the Japanese excelled at efficiently marshalling their limited resources. On the other hand, the Russian armies never realized the true loyalties of their Chinese laborers. The crass anti-Semitism of many Russian leaders also rebounds to the Japanese advantage, when Jewish financiers loan money for a cash-strapped Japan.<br />On the diplomatic front, the book delineates the consequences of the war for the rest of the century. The Japanese, who considered the peace brokered at Portsmouth humiliating, resented the United States. Not appeased by gaining territorial control of Korea, Japan continued to dream of a Manchurian empire and control of China. The United States lost influence in the entire region, not just diplomatically, but economically as well. And, Korea ceased to exist. A new generation of Asian leaders raised Japan as a beacon for their own anti-colonial dreams.<br />Although the first introductory section is excellent, the epilogue chapter is dated. However, the book is well annotated, with a good index, maps, bibliography, and photographs.<br />Along the way, the book presents poignant portraits of various leaders and lesser characters on both sides, from Count Witte to Marquis Ito. The book really begins in Japan with the Meiji Restoration and the failed reforms in Russia. The war highlights the condition of two countries in a situation brewing for generations. Tide At Sunrise demonstrates, how an excellent book can make much out of a little war.	2002-05-12
US	44954499	R21R8KEPDCV66G	029595552X	439135198	Confucian Gentlemen and Barbarian Envoys: Opening of Korea, 1875-85	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Eerie Historical Glimpse of Korea Now	The title of this book alone provides the two categories in the Korean world-view, Korean Confucianists and barbarians. This history dissertation ably isolates the important decade from 1875 to 1885, when Choson negotiated treaties with Japan, China, Russia, the United States, and France. Also, Pusan, Inchon, and Wonsan would become international trade centers. And, domestic crises, such as the Confucian protests and return of the Taewongun in 1882, Kim Ok-kyun's 1884 coup attempt, and Sino-Japanese hostilities, are sketched and analyzed.<br />The author portrays King Kojong as an ineffectual, but enlightened monarch constrained by Choson's economic weakness and bureaucratic and aristocratic conservatism. Kojong's father, the Taewongun, and his wife's family, the Yohung Min, are also criticized for self-serving machinations that China and Japan exploit. Choson, weakened by aristocrats and Confucianism, was unable to modernize, as had Meiji Japan, and fell prey to its geographical neighbors.<br />The book has valuable appendices and elucidates the various treaties as negotiated and finalized. Although the author does not delve deeply into the various personalities involved, major players, including foreign diplomats, like Li Hung-chang, Yuan Shih-kai, Paul Georg von Moellendorff, Takezoe Shinichiro, are introduced. The strength of the book is its organization and clarity.	2002-03-02
US	44954499	R2JLOHOQJSGFUD	0895818787	714592531	Assimilation of Buddhism in Korea: Religious Maturity and Innovation in the Silla Dynasty (Studies in Korean Religions and Culture Series, Vol 4)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Valuable Sourcebook for Advanced Students	ASSIMILATION OF BUDDHISM IN KOREA is a good book for serious students of the history of Buddhism in East Asia. The strength of this book is its bibliographical depth and international representation. It is a series of separate essays, buttressed by numerous lists of ancient publications and mentor-student genealogies.<br />At the very least, this book puts Korea back in the pipeline from China to Korea to Japan. One article is written by a Japanese academician, and another concerns the unique character of Korean Son Buddhism.<br />The opening essay establishes an overview, the second highlights Wonhyo, the third identifies the Korean characteristics of Pure Land Buddhism, and the last introduces Son Buddhism. All are daunting, scholarly productions well translated from original Korean and Japanese sources. The biographical essay on Wonhyo is particularly welcome, and the last two essays are very readable.<br />The one theme which unites the four essays are a search for a unique Korean Buddhist character. Korean Buddhism's syncretic nature and balance of doctrine and practice are placed in historical perspective. However, this book is not for beginners of either Korean or Buddhist history.	2002-01-28
US	44954499	RKB0F5F8PHOTI	0060197765	907746676	From Third World to First: The Singapore Story - 1965-2000	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Optimistic and Pragmatic	FROM THIRD WORLD TO FIRST is Lee Kuan Yew's account of Singapore's evolution from a member of the Malayan Federation in 1965 to thriving, independent nation in 2000. Lee discusses his, and his fellow ministers', important and controversial decisions in Singapore and his official discussions with prominent world leaders, past and present. The volume is written in an approachable, non-technical language in the author's own voice. That Lee Kuan Yew is both educated and self-educated is readily apparent.<br />Lee often confronts the issue of Asian values, sometimes directly, but more often implicitly. He consistently argues and proves, that the values which he and his compatriot ministers championed and administered are Singapore values, and not applicable to other countries. In the second section, Lee painstakingly identifies the character of different countries and their values. Pragmatism is the book's conclusion, not any doctrinaire insistence on a set of Asian values.<br />Another aspect of the book is a multi-faceted view of Asia. Far from lumping all countries in the region into a simple scheme, Lee makes Asia even more complicated. Especially, I was impressed with his reading of China and Taiwan, but Japan and Korea are also distinquished from his own perspective as almost foreign worlds.<br />Lee also bridges social democratic values with pragmatism. From his discussions of educational reforms, city planning, and management in Singapore to his discussions about the Vietnamese War, Chinese development, and relations with the Malaysian Communists, Lee struggles to espouse a non-liberal, non-western way to view events and policies.<br />This is a story about a very fortunate man. The personal dimension is there, too. Through tragedies personal and political, Lee maintains a resilient optimism that marks the book.	2002-01-24
US	44954499	R1B8S4VRHVT4O3	0023658207	960277165	Asian Philosophies	Books	4	17	18	N	N	An Academic Collection	This collection of information on Asian philosophies, from the earliest Hindu verses to the latest modern spins on Buddhism and Confucianism, is for students, not enthusiasts. It is competent, well-researched, contains ample material for personal study, but, as the discussion questions at the ends of chapters indicate, is a college textbook.<br />The drawback of this, is a dispassionate, sometimes tedious delivery. The discussions of the various schools of Hinduism, are mind-boggling in their implications, but also difficult. The advantage of this, is the direct converse. The subject matter demands careful attention, not adulation.<br />I recommend this book for students and perhaps those with an interest in culture, but especially for those who think Western thought is too logical and lifeless. Asian philosophies have a rigor all their own, and this book should tease the proselytes from the enlightened.	2001-12-27
US	44954499	R2Q2JLUCPHV0SD	0881322784	225134134	Avoiding the Apocalypse: The Future of the Two Koreas	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Book From Which Policies Should Flow	For those who try to understand the conundrum that is Korea, this book is a stiff cold wind, and entirely welcome. Indeed it is a daunting read, full of econometric and logical analyses, but Avoiding the Apocalypse : The Future of the Two Koreas repays careful reading many times over. <br />Aside from the rigorous analysis, however, are the three concluding chapters. The author discusses three alternative paths for North Korea's future, and reaches a conclusion. Not only is the author open-minded, but the prospect for each scenario opens up possible policy implications for all countries involved.<br />This book also provides useful information on South Korea, even though it is billed as a book on North Korea. In many ways, the author's reflections on Korean history and South Korean development are more useful than the North Korean sections. Before North Korea can be dispassionately analyzed, South Korean success must be analyzed.<br />I put down this book and reached the conclusion, that the world just may have to live with a North Korea, de-villified, but certainly dangerous, for a long time. South Korea also faces more difficulties than it realizes, and should look at North Korea as an example in negative.<br />Still, with all the analysis and history, the mystery that is Korea is still there in the shadows. This book does admirably well with figures and facts, but so much is misunderstood. This book does as best as any could with this emotional subject, and, hopefully, will be the basis for thought, not rhetoric.	2001-12-27
US	44954499	R1ONT4OCNWDP3E	025321355X	537293972	Globalization and the Challenges of a New Century: A Reader	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A helpful Introduction	It's difficult to fault a book compiled from other author's articles, except maybe how the book is organized. But Globalization and the Challenges of the New Century : A Reader is not only useful, but topical. The discussion starts with Huntington's now oft-and-overquoted essay, &quot;The Clash of Civilizations?&quot;, and moves to Barber and Kaplan. Later, some other luminaries appear, but the strength of the collection is the depth of arguments by not-so famous authors. Also, the volume breaks globalization into it's political, economic, technological, and cultural aspects, something that seemingly perplexes most people, because their arguments pass too quickly and easily between all of them. There is so much here to read, but, perhaps, some more information for more reading would be useful. This book provides a useful start for those looking for an interesting and rigorous look at what can become an empty slogan at dinner-parties and coffee breaks.	2001-12-27
US	44954499	R1PCXBD6OEWH99	0451524950	619137395	The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and other stories in The Sketch Book	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Under-appreciated Gem	Washington Irving's Sketch Book is not only a literary document, with more import than just what literary scholars can glean, but also an ambitious work by a young author. Like reading any first work, observing the chances Irving takes with these articles and stories is revealing and rewarding.<br />Sketch Book has more than just scary tales, like Sleepy Hollow, but also has travel pieces, period literary criticism, and insightful social analyses. Irving honestly contrasts British and Continental cultures with nascent American currents. The theme of the book is the uniqueness of American culture, but also its continuities with European trends. The Sketch Book is commentary on a very ambitious scale. It is a model for anyone writing a travel memoir, either non-fiction or fictionalized.<br />Irving's style is also very ornate, but economical and organized, and his range of subjects is vast. Any one interested in 19th-century history or culture will find this independent work revealing.	2001-10-17
US	44954499	R2CXNM9N51PLRJ	0385497954	599898766	The Tale of Murasaki: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Luminescent	Rarely do I read a book which captivates and enthralls me as completely as THE TALE OF MURASAKI has done. This is more than a confection for a niche market of GENJI admirers; it is a work of its own, with its own strengths and weaknesses.<br />Dalby has done a wonderful job introduing us to her depiction of GENJI's creator. Her mastery of aspects of the author's world is awe-inspiring: clothing, incense, interiors. However, even as I was enthralled by her descriptions of the author's background, I was hoping for more. What about Michinaga, the emperors, the Chinese ambassador and his son. Dalby's interiors are so brilliant, she could easily have provided more exterior and background.<br />What about the GENJI author's name? I am left with this gnawing void, as if the author evaporates like so much fragrance. The last years of her life are brief compared with the first part of the text also. Is this omission due to respect for her seclusion or lack of textual information?<br />There is a telling gap between Dalby's language and the language of the GENJI author in her poems, and again in the GENJI author's speaking and interior voice. I generally support making a character's voice as simple (and as modern in translation) as possible, but Dalby makes her characters too informal and modern. The formality of Japanese court life should be reflected in the language, or else it is inauthentic.<br />THE TALE OF MURASAKI is also not GENJI, and it's not the secret between the lines. Both are individual, with distinct merits. This is just Dalby's interpretation, and should not be considered canonical or historical. It should just be viewed as an experiment, a light romp through time.	2001-09-03
US	44954499	R2RXT0WLNR0W1K	0674000811	89670342	Acheson: The Secretary of State Who Created the American World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Fingering the Culprits	Coming to terms with the United States' numerous mistakes in the twentieth century is a herculean task, but ACHESON : THE SECRETARY OF STATE WHO CREATED THE AMERICAN WORLD is a start. As a reader who is mostly interested in Asian affairs, but started my college education studying European affairs, this book is enlightening. Not only is there a deficit in the information-gathering department, but also the policy-making department as well. This biography reveals most of the strains in American foreign policy from a personal angle.<br />Americans of an older generation instinctively understand European thinking and politics better than Asian, or any other continent's, policies, even if most American policy is idealistically shaped with European realism as a foil. This biography maps just how that pattern of thinking worked, and the consequences in Korea and Vietnam.<br />This book also reveals some of the tensions in American foreign policy, between domestic party lineages and philosophical differences (like &quot;doves and hawks&quot;), that are being played out again in debates over China and Theater Missile Defense.<br />The portrait of this man is fascinating, and, as were many of the men and women of that century, he was intelligent, principled, and ambitious. That so many brilliant people could not have done better is the real story, and, fortunately, one to which this book may contribute.	2001-07-23
US	44954499	R55TZYX2MMEP5	0684856441	685920640	The Color of Truth: McGeorge Bundy and William Bundy: Brothers in Arms	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Fingering the Culprits	THE COLOR OF TRUTH: MCGEORGE BUNDY AND WILLIAM BUNDY, BROTHERS IN ARMS: A BIOGRAPHY is essential reading for anyone trying to understand American foreign policy in the twentieth century. This book is well-researched and full of previously-undisclosed information. It also provides two portraits of what &quot;establishment liberalism&quot; was, how it developed, and its consequences. In the process, some of the most fascinating moments in American history are illuminated, most of the time unfavorably.<br />From their respective military careers in WWII to their numerous positions in academia, government, and the non-profit sector, these two brothers were at the center of a huge web of personal and professional contacts in the American establishment. They were in many ways, the best, but also very flawed. This biography reveals those flaws, and the consequences of their failures.<br />This book is very dense, especially during the sections dealing with the question of Vietnam, and an acquaintance with the brothers' own corpus of work is helpful and increases the potency of the book's analytical edge. It should be required reading for anyone interested in government policy, because it reveals how decisions are made, and how human beings think.	2001-07-23
US	44954499	R3SNGX6YUEB57K	0670886696	802733832	Mao Zedong: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Too Small An Effort	I was initially very sceptical about a biography series backed by Penguin Books, and the fact, that only two of the books in the series are about Asian subjects, tends to confirm it. I therefore started reading MAO ZEDONG with low expectations. That the author was Jonathan D. Spence I accepted as a publicity ploy, since Spence is one of the most prolific and readable authors on Chinese subjects, particularly the modern period. I, therefore, looked at this very slim and very small volume as a throwback to the old Everyman series of books, and other Depression-era series. I asked myself while reading, if the layman would want to learn more about this subject after reading this volume.<br />This is not a scholarly tome, so most readers will not be intimidated by it. It is written very accessibly, with few endnotes, and is a quick read. It, however, restricts itself too much, almost as if the author (or the editors) cut material for the sake of the book's physical design. Aside form the absence of huge periods of Mao's life, his relationship with other figures of his time is de-focused, almost like Mao himself tried to do. It's as if, trying to keep a focus on Mao, the author cut Mao's competitors out of the book. <br />I would hesitate to call this book propaganda, but it is little removed from the advertisements and paraphenalia pasted with Mao's words and face. As a matter of fact, the book feeds on that charisma. Although every person deserves a fair treatment by his/her biographer, Mao (and many other controversial figures) require a more philosophical approach. After all, Mao was responsible for the deaths of his compatriots and subjects, and some care must be given when analyzing Mao's life. Spence is too fair to Mao in this volume. My first wquestion was: how does an individual who leads a revolution become a murderer, of strangers and colleagues? What of the others who helped Mao? What of his role in some of the most earth-shattering events in global history? Sadly, this book is too small (in scope, size, and spirit) to tell us.<br />Some people, after reading this slim volume, may be so intriqued by the absence of material, that they will continue to study about Mao. But, this book is not, and cannot be, the last word.	2001-07-20
US	44954499	RZS8CVVNIJFB2	0791431746	547390763	Chong Yagyong: Korea's Challenge to Orthodox Neo-Confucianism (Suny Series in Korean Studies)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Korean Philosopher	CHONG YAGYONG: KOREA'S CHALLENGE TO ORTHODOX NEO-CONFUCIANISM is a short study of the life and works of the Korean Neo-Confucian scholar and bureaucrat, Chong Yagyong, or Tasan (1762-1836). Tasan, his nom de plume, refers to a hill, &quot;Tea Mountain&quot;, near Kangjin in South Cholla province, where Chong was exiled following anti-Catholic purges in the capital. Chong was a gifted and precocious scholar who became a trusted advisor to King Chongjo (r.1776-1800). His works were reputed to have been loved by Kojong, the last king of Korea.<br />This book surveys historically Tasan's life, the factions in the Korean royal court, and Tasan's Korean, Chinese, and Japanese influences, and critically analyzes Tasan's corpus of work. The author situates Tasan squarely in the Neo-Confucian tradition, but argues, that his arguments opposed the orthodox position, espoused by most Korean scholar-bureaucrats of his time, originally formulated by Chu Hsi. Where Chu tried to turn Confucianism into a metaphysical theory capable of competing with Taoism and Buddhism, Tasan, through analysis and philological research, advocated a return to a Confucian emphasis on ethics and political activism.<br />Besides Tasan's arguments, what is most interesting about this book, is how the author reveals the myriad influences in Tasan's intellectual development: Chinese, Japanese, Korean, even, possibly, Catholic Christian (although the evidence is ambiguous). Also, a picture of Korean political development is offered. Both these situate Korea in an international context. Tasan surely deserves a place in the history of philosophy, along with others alive in the world of his generation. <br />If only this book would have included more excerpts from Tasan's works in translation, it would be perfect. As it is, it is a slim volume, more a teaser than the final word.	2001-07-19
US	44954499	R11TLSZ387DTHV	0930878132	457916684	A Guide To Korean Characters: Reading and Writing Hangul and Hanja (A Mini Dictionary of Characters for Modern Readers)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Two Languages in One	Along with my Korean-English dictionaries, grammar guides, and textbooks, GUIDE TO KOREAN CHARACTERS: READING AND WRITING HANGUL AND HANJA, is my ticket to the cosmopolitan side of Korean life. The Korean language uses two alphabets, hangul and hanja. Hangul was invented by a group of Confucian scholars commissioned by King Sejong in the 15th Century. However, even today, most of the Korean found in newspapers, books, and on television is of Chinese origin. Like the Japanese, Koreans use Chinese characters, but pronounce them differently. Hanja, or Chinese characters, are required for most adult discourse and counting.<br />The book starts with simple characters, or &quot;radicals&quot;, progressing to complicated ones. Students can follow the graphs and learn to write the characters. Each character is also translated into English and Korean. Hangul is provided in the jacket of the book, but this is not a Hangul textbook. A further index also organizes the characters for quick reference.<br />Because the Korean educational system authorizes and halts Hanja education seemingly every decade, learning Hanja gives the non-Korean student an advantage over Korean students. Sino-Korean words are also easier to remember, because they are shorter. Learning Hanja opens up a whole different world to the non-Korean student.	2001-07-18
US	44954499	R1608O5C9GMK0E	0962771309	935488570	Korea Old and New: A History	Books	5	47	52	N	N	The Place to Begin for Korean History	KOREA OLD AND NEW: A HISTORY is the beginning student's text Korean history has sorely needed. The result of a fruitful partnership between Korean and Western scholars, it is both well-written and researched.<br />This book is pieced together from two earlier efforts (hence the old and new of the title). Although the second part, containing the latter history of Korea from the mid-19th century to 1990, is more detailed and analytical, the entire book is the best text around. This text has spawned new specialist histories of Choson, Buddhism, and Confucian studies. It is also better edited for typographical and linguistic errors than previous histories.<br />However, some questions remain, mostly related to the question of Korean nationalism. The authors address the peculiar problem Korea faces: cultural chauvinism combined with dependence on foreign markets, notably Japan and the United States. The authors admirably and courageously document the role of the Japanese and American policies in Korean development, the nature of Pak Chung Hee's regime, and the fortuitous nature of Korean economic recovery, but still cling to cultural nationalist baggage about the cultural, linguistic, and racial unity of the Korean nation, downplaying the numerous historical political entities on the Korean peninsula and significant regional differences. <br />As Korea becomes more pluralistic and its economy more open, information about the last 5 decades will continue to filter through, but, increasingly this liberalness is purchased with a racial and linguistic chauvinism that threatens to keep studies of Joseon and Koryo wrapped in inviolate sacrality. Although the authors final note of a turn to more participatory evolution of Korean politics, the bigotry and exclusivity of the Korean market is left intact.<br />One way this is manifested in the book is the separation of political and economic sections, as in the nineteenth and twentieth chapters. The way the Pak regime operated directly impacts how Korea's economy developed. Separating the two discussions, leaves open the fallacy that Korea can continue to develop without political liberalization. It is almost a disguised tribute to Pak and his Japanese mentors. An end to mindless adulation of the supposed &quot;Korean Miracle&quot; is a prerequisite for continued Korean development and development of Korean studies.<br />The book also needs to be updated for the 1990's, particularly the troubles of the two Kim administrations, because the author's concerns have important policy implications. In Korea, history is immediately played out in the contemporary arena. <br />This book is the best place for laymen and beginning students to start. it is a model, both in its honesty and authorial collaboration, for future Korean studies.	2001-07-16
US	44954499	R1G69PW9VH5Z1G	0684826976	646280776	Undaunted Courage:  Meriwether Lewis, Thomas Jefferson, and the Opening of the American West	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Tour Guide and History, But What About Clark?	UNDAUNTED COURAGE is the type of history book one wants to find, if one is uncertain why history is important. Readable, exciting, sometimes emotionally-draining, informative, and erudite, it is history for people who wonder what history books have to offer.<br />First of all, a reason to go rafting in the American Northwest. The journals, used as primary source material, reveal the pristine American wilderness as it will never be again, but the narrative is enough to want one to explore for oneself all the places mentioned.<br />Second, the narrative immerses the reader in its times. Not only the journals, but the letters highlight an emphasis on health and injury, class backgrounds, education, language, and practical matters, like careers and marriage. There are discussions of international relations, featuring Jefferson's plans, involving Britain, Canada, and Asian trade, for the expedition. The expedition crew is also given their say, and their concerns and behavior are revealing. And, the scientific angle is fascinating; new boat technologies, biological classifications, anthropology, geography.<br />Third, there is the debunking, particularly of the Sacajawea myth and her role in the expedition.<br />This book is a great service to scholarship and readers.	2001-07-09
US	44954499	RQRQ85NX2IZA0	0710301359	794563494	Korea and Her Neighbours (Pacific Basin Books)	Books	5	19	28	N	N	Reading about the Past to See Today's Future	KOREA AND HER NEIGHBOURS is a book that is eerily prescient about Korea. It is also provides glimpses of Korea as it was before Japan's Occupation. It has all the confidence of its time, but has some drawbacks. <br />KOREA AND HER NEIGHBOURS was written by a remarkable woman, Isabella Bird Bishop, an independent British Victorian lady who had also written books about Japan and the US. She toured Korea four times between March 1894-7, and also toured Manchuria and Korean settlements in the Russian Far East. She visited Pusan, Seoul, and Pyongyang, and also sailed the Han River on a raft and climbed the Diamond Mountains. Her accounts and opinions are unusually precise and honest, and still meaningful. Other topics of discussion include marriage customs, shamanism, political events, accounts of the Sino-Japanese War, Koreans in exile, and interviews with the Korean royal family.<br />The book also includes photographs, particularly useful and informative, since the Japanese destroyed many of the royal households during the Occupation.<br />Bishop had the opportunity to see parts of Korea that most foreigners have not seen since the Korean War and the division of the peninsula. Although she is very critical of the Korean government and upper classes, she develops a fondness and sympathy for the people of Korea. But, that does not impede her honesty, and she criticizes common behavior and customs readily.<br />Although the book is full of information, whether it be political, historical, sociological, or naturalistic, her Victorian viewpoint is very apparent. Her faith in Japanese (and Russian) assistance to develop Korea is uncannily prescient, if only naive. Confronted with the account of the murder of Queen Min by the Japanese, she can only plead special pardon for the Japanese, whom she sees as enlightened saviors. Her belief in development is well-meant, but is too simplistic for such a backward country as Korea was. But her account of foreign efforts to reform Korea are expansive (she includes ample appendices and transcripts of government documents). She is a firm believer in a form of democratic republicanism not seen since the First World War.<br />This is a treasure for students of Korea and Asia, but also for students of the late 19th Century. This very spirited, independent woman amazingly travelled alone, accompanied only by hired men, down rivers and up mountains in summer and winter, walked across battlefields, waded through slums, and interviewed kings, queens, and politicians. This is not only a triumph of scholarship, but of adventure.	2001-07-03
US	44954499	R2BXGFZ5L556V5	0393027473	654759407	The Chan's Great Continent, China in Western Minds	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Not Really a History of China	The subtitle of this book is clear. THE CHAN'S GREAT CONTINENT: CHINA IN WESTERN MINDS is not a history of China. It is a history of Western thinking, using &quot;China&quot; as a mirror. Sometimes, the image distorts the subject, but its not China we are looking at. As an expatriate living in Korea, who is daily confronted with the distortions and limitations of my own western thinking, the concept of an &quot;Asia&quot; or &quot;China&quot; is more dangerous and loaded than all the jingoistic slogans ad agencies produce.<br />Each chapter is a look at some (or many) pieces of literature or criticism, making the whole book more literary criticism than history (the nod to Harold Bloom should be a big clue to this). So many major and minor works are examined, that it is clear, that &quot;China&quot; could never be so much to so many, even over time. What is documented here, is the Western need for dualism and aggrandiazement at the expense of an &quot;other&quot;.<br />The book is actually better-written than it should be, like William James. It should be dry and abtuse, like some bad literary criticism. Spence's skill as a popular writer makes the exposition too slick. This is a specialist work masquerading as popular history.<br />If read correctly, this book should shock and humble. After all, why do Westerners find so much that is different in &quot;China&quot;? Why are there conclusions so off-mark? This book is not a history of China, but a history of Western errors.	2001-07-01
US	44954499	RLCK98GE9MVX3	067417982X	463520979	Culture and the State in Late Choson Korea (Harvard East Asian Monographs)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Insight Into the Past	CULTURE AND THE STATE IN LATE CHOSON KOREA is a collection of six essays, edited by JaHyun Kim Haboush and Martina Deuschler, about the middle and late period of the Yi Dynasty in Choson (now North and South Korea) between the 16th and 19th Centuries. Hidden beneath its academic exterior are some exquisite gems for scholars and students of Korean history. Recently, the study of Korean culture and history has started to improve and attract international attention. This volume is one of the best to date.<br />The scope of the book and the collective researches of the scholars puts Korean history in a better light vis-a vis Chinese, Japanese, and other national histories. The editors begin with the intention to approach the factional quarreling over Confucian doctrine as a legitmate area of study, instead of dismissing it as negative. These debates about Confucian orthodoxy, Buddhism, shamanism, and Christianity are treated for their impact on living Korean culture. Also, these debates are discussed in their international context and future relevance.<br />One point discussed is the effect the fall of the Ming Dynasty in China to the Mongols had on Choson and the Confucian, Buddhist, and Christian scholars involved. Because Choson had derived its legitimacy from the Chinese Emperor and conducted itself as a vassal, the fall of the center of civilization to barbarians caused great concern to the Choson elite. Choson Confucian scholars had to search the canonical texts and find legitimacy for Choson again.<br />The volume also discusses Buddhism and Christianity. the work of men, like Hyujong, Tasan, and Christian matyrs, like Peter Yun and his family, are treated in the context of Choson's Neo-Confucian elite searching for legitimacy. The last essay concerning Christianity and Neo-Confucianism provides a great service to students of philosophy and the history of philosophy, by delineating the differences between Thomism and Confucianism, and, in the process, gives insight into the conflicts between modern Korea's culture and that of the West.<br />The essays, concerning shamanism and Confucianism, and the rise of Confucian academies, also puts modern Korean culture in perspective. Current debates, concerning government reform, education, and gender relations, all appear different.<br />Although this volume, due to the six different styles of the authors, is technically difficult, it is never dry or irrelevant. The serious student of Korean and Asian studies will appreciate this volume for its depth of information, analytic acumen, and its cast of characters.	2001-06-25
US	44954499	R3QKIGSFAVK74T	0930878086	481125138	Introduction to Korean History and Culture	Books	3	31	32	N	N	Warning: Useful for Beginners, but Not for Advanced Students	INTRODUCTION TO KOREAN HISTORY AND CULTURE has now passed through at least three editions, so it is probably the passing standard for histories of Korea. It is useful and generally correct, however, it is no longer cutting edge.<br />Recent archaeological discoveries and the continuing maturation of South Korean political culture have increased debate about many topics in the history of the Korean peninsula. But, still, Professor Nahm's role in this movement has to be acknowledged. His works are probably the first popular tomes most non-Koreans have consulted about Korean history.<br />The most serious deficiency about this book, and nearly all mass market books about Korea, is the perspective, that Korea is a political entity existing since prehistory. Many nations have existed on the Korean peninsula and in Manchuria, and the idea of a Korean national history is problematic and controversial. This book adds nothing, because it antedates it, to this contemporary debate. It is highly questionable, if Choson peasants or Koryo aristocrats had a national consciousness. Identifying Koryo or Choson as Korean is a subtle form of propaganda, not good historical writing.<br />This book is also riddled with awkward phrasings and typographical errors. As with most books on Korea, the transliteration scheme is always problematic, and the use of different schemes, is confusing. Because, for instance one person (e.g. Lee Syng Man) is known best in the West as Syngman Rhee, his name is so transliterated, but other persons and places are transliterated differently. This confusion is always irritating.<br />The final sections on modern South and North Korea are sparse and uncritical, and do not reflect the depth of debate in South Korean society. if Professor Nahm has any perspective, it is pro-development, but by which political regime? By echewing partisan labels, this book sacrifices substance and depth. This book is no more critical than the bad history taught in the schools.<br />As a quick reference quide, this book is still useful, but with a great deal of caution. There are other more relevant and insightful introductions. But this book has a deserved place in the evolution of Korean scholarship, and in Korean history.	2001-06-22
US	44954499	R3IDR5XGLBQXBL	0684827115	784599154	STILL LIFE WITH RICE	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Typically Straight Talk About Koreans by A Korean Woman	STILL LIFE WITH RICE is a breath of fresh air blasting into a staid room. Not only is the language straightforward and frank, but it is respectful, in a way only Koreans would understand. Not only does the narrative begin in North Korea before the 1950 invasion, but it discusses Korean emigrees in China, living in Occupation-era Korea, surviving during war, and emigrating to a foreign country.<br />But this book is also about women, written by a woman rediscovering her history and her voice. It is not only a political discussion, but also a discussion of how women existed in Korean society. Although, as a man, talking about menstruation and other aspects of a woman's daily experience, was a bit unnerving, it established the book's focus, the tale of a woman maturing and becoming quite unique by any standard.<br />The author is a first generation Korean-American (gyopo-saram) listening to her grandmother's tales of the old world. But neither are victims, and the fierce determination of the grandmother is revealed in the brashness of the granddaughter's prose. The granddaughter legitimates her grandmother's right to speak, a right not granted in her upbringing. The act of writing is liberation from the constraints of a misogynistic, Confucian social structure, and reveals the power of women in Korean culture.<br />What I liked about the narrator was her humility. She may have withstood some of the bitterest experiences any women would face, but she takes no credit and is not condescending. She grows older and wiser, but her own personality does not change. Both women, storyteller and story-writer, are quite unique. By adopting her grandmother's voice, the granddaughter creates a heroine that speaks to both the old and future worlds.	2001-06-22
US	44954499	R1FDV8NBHVNU7X	067166834X	595058146	The Korean War	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Independent and Concise Introduction	THE KOREAN WAR is the kind of introduction one wants. It recounts the history, but it also incites. The author, although supporting the aims of this first of &quot;limited&quot; wars, also never fails to give his own opinion about the US Armed Forces' conduct in the war. The account has several strong points.<br />First, he uses interviews and personal memoirs, to make the account personable.<br />Second, his narrative is fluid and exciting, even when he leaps between battlefield and briefing rooms.<br />Third, he includes an excellent account of the post-WWII situation in Korea and Japan.<br />Fourth, his discussion of MacArthur does not stoop to iconography.<br />Hastings also refers to incidents and policies repeated in Vietnam which help to put the &quot;forgotten war&quot; in its proper context. He does not hesitate to criticize actions, such as the incidents on Goje Island, and is very fair in his portraits of commanders.<br />This book is both a good introduction for students of Korean history and of military history.	2001-05-10
US	44954499	RJ6ODAVP932B4	0295975334	37800801	Offspring of Empire: The Koch'ang Kims and the Colonial Origins of Korean Capitalism, 1876-1945 (Korean Studies of the Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies)	Books	5	26	31	N	N	Required Korean Government Reading	OFFSPRING OF EMPIRE: THE KOCH&quot;ANG KIMS AND THE COLONIAL ORIGINS OF KOREAN CAPITALISM 1876-1945 is a detailed economic, historical, and biographical polemic about the origins of capitalism in Korea. The author argues, that Japanese &quot;(c)olonialism...for better or worse...was the catalyst and cradle of industrial development in Korea...&quot;. Using the example of two brothers, Kim Songsu and Kim Yonsu, Eckart reveals a rough portrait of middle-class life in pre-and-Occupation-era Korea. Wading through economic statistics, newspaper clippings, boardroom minutes, and interviews, the author also contends against nationalistic, whether South Korean (&quot;sprouts theory&quot;) or North Korean, theories of Korean development. What remains is the disturbing thought, that the glue holding nationalism together on the Korean peninsula, is morally bankrupt.<br />Although this book was published originally in 1991 (reprinted in 1997), the full effect of the events it describes are still unfolding. Relations between the two Koreas, and both Koreas' relations with foreign nations, particularly Japan, China, Russia, and the United States, are complicated by questions from just this period of history. Where is Korea? Who are the Koreans? Both these basic questions continue to unnerve Koreans as they try to locate themselves in the larger world outside Asia. Eckart's argument undermines the Korean argument, that Koreans were developing into a modern nation just like any western nation. He also undermines the role of Koreans in the capitalist development of their own country. He even, by questioning the origins of Park Chung Hee's inspiration for developing South Korea after the Occupation, undermines all of Korea's development efforts. One is left with the disturbing thought, that Korea, as the average Korean loves to say, is the land of one racial group, a theory fraught with serious moral implications.<br />Eckart's argument also frustrates the search for an alternative to authoritarian development by a strong government, whether colonialist or Park-esque. Its as if the Americans had crowned Washington after all, instead of devising an original alternative to the despotism the revolutionaries had just defeated. As Korea stumbles through reform with a president highly unpopular and limited by constitutional restrictions, these thoughts,this book raises,take on more urgency.	2001-05-03
US	44954499	R4XCOKYK5KOI	0674000757	214931546	A Concise History of China	Books	4	28	29	N	N	An Introduction for the 21st century	J.A.G. Roberts' A Concise History of China is an introduction to China for a China ready to join the World Trade Organization.  China is not an enigna or special case, but a microcosm of the world as a whole. Roberts' contribution is, that he undermines the notion of a unified Chinese culture or region. <br />Roberts most memorable chapters recount the disparate states which rose and fell, some contemporaneously, and the foreign influences always ar work on them. China is revealed as a continent of many nations, not as a monolithic and eternal concept.<br />Roberts' book is also well balanced, and his chapters, instead of following dynastic changes, roughly divide Chinese history into equal time periods. His polemical acumen is considerable, and his chapters are full pf debates between Western and modern Chinese historians. If there is one period where his skills are lacking, it is the immediate past, and the last pages are disappointing.<br />This is a relevant introduction to Chinese history, that places China historically in the world, and within its own worlds.	2001-03-17
US	44954499	R24R1WZFK98JMC	0520213610	939708028	The Abacus and the Sword: The Japanese Penetration of Korea, 1895-1910 (Twentieth Century Japan: The Emergence of a World Power)	Books	5	12	20	N	N	A Demanding, but Honorable Account	One of the many aspects of East Asian relations insufficiently appreciated in Western nations is the troubled history of Japan and its neighbors, specifically Korea.  Peter Duus' The Abacus and the Sword: The Japanese Penetration of Korea, 1893-1910 is a an economic analysis of the relationship between Japan and Choson Korea before the Japanese Occupation. A very demanding book  by a reputable Japan scholar, Abacus and the Sword requires a beginner's acquaintance with Japanese and Korean history, and a knowledge of international relations in the nineteenth century is also helpful<br />For those living outside of Korea, the reasons for Meiji Japan's occupation of Korea may seem unimportant, but, in all the countries of Northeast Asia, Japanese responsibility for many actions committed in the 20th Century are highly controversial and relevant. Debates concerning North Korean policy, Japanese militarization, Japanese war guilt, comfort women, Japan's economic recession and endemic corruption are all subjects affected by the histories of Japan and Korea.  But this book also contributes to the discussion concerning colonialism and imperialism.<br />Why did an isolationist victim of Western imperialism become a conqueror itself?  Instead of championing the rights of weaker nations, Japan determined to imitate it's American transgressors and build an empire of it's own, to compete with the West. This is Duus' starting point, which he painstakingly traces in its political and economic history. Duus argues, that industrialization was the condition for Japanese imperialism, not the reason. Furthermore, British, French, and American government support for empire-building affected how the Japanese government policies worked.<br />Although he admits so himself, I would prefer if Duus had used more Korean sources, especially when discussing the Korean resistance armies (uibyong-gun), but he uncovers the Japanese players and popular Japanese attitudes without bias. The other sideof the equation is important, though, namely how Korea fell so easily to foreign domination. Duus also discusses the other international players, Russia and China. And the last chapter on Japanese cultural domination invaluably narrates how Japan obliterated a nascent Korean identity. Still, the Japanese accounts of Korean conditions are insightful, since Korean accounts are sparse and suspect.<br />Given the politicized nature of the two countries' relationship, the reader must be skeptical of any history. Undisputed data is sparse and analysis, particularly on the Korean sides, has progressed little from conspiracy theories. Any amount of sober analysis is welcome, and Duus delivers.	2001-03-17
US	44954499	R1SHMVQ6RFAFHN	0684834197	499613390	MacArthur's War : Korea and the Undoing of an American Hero	Books	1	7	15	N	N	Subtly Disguised Hero Worship	MacArthur's War: Korea and the Undoing of an American Hero is a confused polemic. Simultaneously a general history of the Korean War, biography, and polemic, it does not accomplish it's goal: to rehabilitate the reputation of General Douglas MacArthur. Weintraub wants to restore MacArthur's reputation, in order to honor the memory of those who sacrificed their blood for a stalemate and criticize political leaders, including Marshall and Truman for firing MacArthur.<br />Beginning as a general war history, the chronological narrative has little analytical force. There is no discussion of Korean history or even discussion of MacArthur`s career. The narrative careens incompetently from Tokyo to various theaters in Korea to Washington. Although there are some flashy chapter titles, Weintraub offers no new interpretations or facts not already offered in other more responsible accounts.<br />The Korean War stands as a graveyard of mistakes, and as an academic monument to bad thinking. So multi-faceted, a definitive account could easily exceed a thousand pages, but a simple analysis might fit in a chapter.  And, due to the number of players, any argument requires multi-lingual precision and the skill of a diplomat. The annoying nature of the armistice, the treatment of veterans, and the politicized atmosphere on the Korean peninsula make the author's task nearly impossible. Unless  an author hides incompetence beneath the aura of an iconic figure. Weintraub gets no points for failing, because his effort merely reinforces MacArthur's iconic status, which is not what a history of the war requires. The politicized nature of the conflict and the history of Korea are just the essential aspects of the account Weintraub downplays.<br />This book represents the worse that the American academic publishing industry represents: \\"publish or perish\\". It contributes nothing to Korean War scholarship, is an affront to Korean history, and dishonors the memory of those who fought.	2001-03-17
US	44954499	R2K7J0E7WLZQPH	0679745114	544844729	Japan: A Reinterpretation	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Uncovering the Past, to Make the Future	Japan is either the villain or a robot, yet for many Westerners it is first and foremost enigmatic. Patrick Smith's Japan: A Reinterpretation takes as its starting-point the reforms of the Meiji period, and concludes, that the search for a Japanese identity has been flawed and is still not complete. Smith also blames American policies for this flawed project.<br />Smith's revisionist study may best be called social psychology, but he discusses history, feminism, art, economics, politics, agriculture, education, racism, and religion. His cast of characters include Banana Yoshimoto and Hirohito, samurais, bureaucrats, and foreigners.  His argument for Hirohito's war guilt is compelling.<br />Because Japan is the first third-world nation to develop into a first-world nation, Smith's account of  Japan's flawed attempts to understand it's place in the world are relevant to other small nations, like Korea and South Africa.<br />Smith's anaysis is also peppered with interviews and anecdotes. His familiarity and respect for Japan is evident on every page. Still, the reader is left with some disturbing thoughts.	2001-03-17
US	44954499	R3SSTKEH6ORHMR	0486414159	637593769	The Tale of Genji (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	32	39	N	N	The Best Introduction and the Best Value Around!	I first found The Tale of Genji in a military library on Camp Humphreys in Korea. The volume was huge, and the plastic jacket was torn, yellowed, and taped. I had no idea what the book was about, only that it was 1000 and more pages. The translator was Arthur Waley. For three months I immersed myself in the tome until I almost refused to part with it. Later, I also read an abridged version translated by Seidensticker.<br />This particular volume includes only the first novel of the series; there are actually six in the entire work. It is a dense 190-page introduction to the Heian period of Japanese culture, Buddhism, and Genji. But, this piece of the novel is the best introduction to the work as a whole, and I am grateful for it, although I also want to re-read the succeeding five novels again. If you do not have the time to read 1000 pages (although I heartily recommend it), this is the next best course of action.<br />The theme of the book is karma, and , specifically, that bad intentions and actions will affect the lives of others in our own life and in the lives to come. Although the succeeding five novels show much more poignantly how an ancestor's actions hurt his children, in the first novel, Genji's actions affects those around him in a very direct way.<br />The psychological descriptions of the main characters rival any modern work by Dostoevsky. The charm of the title characters distracts the reader from the suffering occuring around him, but Murasaki paints a hauntingly beautiful picture of 11th Century Japan. Waley's translation is fluid, but sometimes quaint and misguided. This volume may be the best value I have ever found, including discount books at second-hand stores and garage sales.	2001-02-24
US	44954499	R24FII6WLXP2DT	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	3	5	14	N	N	The Disconnected Ordinary Everyman	Haruki Murakami's &quot;The Elephant Vanishes&quot; does not reveal its coherence until the title story finishes the 327th page. This is a discussion about the shifting perspectives of man and woman in traditional society. Once the man loomed larger than women, but, like the elephant and his trainer, this notion has vanished from view. Murakami pauses to acknowledge and ponder.<br />Many of the male characters in this collections of 17 short stories are stay-at-home husbands married to career-oriented wives. Whether house-sitting, working around the house, or tempted by younger women, these men deal with their sexual urges and emotions without help from traditional norms. Other characters explore their awakening sexual urges, sometimes destructively, other times formatively. The female characters are strong, confident, and often unsupportive and seductively teasing.<br />This collection is also a more than a less book. The narrative voice is verbose and unchecked. This is a selfish narration, typically masculine, oblivious of utility or artfulness.  But it is also honest. The stories are full of tidbits of erudition, excessive detail, and, sometimes, usefulness.  It is more tape recorded psychology project than vision.<br />However, culturally, the collection is sterile. it is not informative about Japanese norms and developments. Murakami's characters are typically middle-class, urban, cosmopolitan, and ordinary. This is not a sourcebook, to learn about Japanese attitudes, but a document chronicling the leveling effects of globalization. In many ways, it is as disturbing in its sterility as it is in its conclusions.	2001-01-21
US	44954499	R316GGGJKJ72JY	0767903579	648018356	Falling Leaves: The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Cinderella With An Historical Consciousness	Adeline Yen Mah's &quot;Falling Leaves: The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter&quot;, is a poignant account of one Chinese family's collision with generational change, history, a mother's death and a father's remarriage, and layers of parental, cultural, and personal views. Although the subtitle emphasizes the interpersonal relationships in an affluent, multi-generational mainland Chinese family, extending from the late 19th Century, through the tumultuous years of Guomintang rule, Japanese occupation, world war, and Communist ascendancy, to the material comforts of Hong Kong and international society. Mah's family members display a remarkable diversity of attitudes against a backdrop of changing political and economic conditions.  It is Cinderella with an historical and cultural consciousness<br />Mah's family portrait reveals just how diverse China was, and in many ways, still is.  Her grand aunt founded and managed  the Shanghai Women's Bank in 1924, eschewed foot-binding and marriage,and was rumored to have co-habitated with a long-term female companion.  Her grandfather, Ye Ye, remained a devout Buddhist, and wore traditional Chinese robes and skullcap. Mah's mother, who died after the author's birth of puerperal fever, was the middle-class daughter of a Shanghai postal official, but her step-mother, Niang, the ''villain'' of the story, was the cultured, trilinqual daughter of a French soldier and a Chinese mother. The narrative races from Tianjin and Shanghai, to Hong Kong, Canada, the United States, Monaco, Great Britain, and Nigeria. The narrative traces a family's rise and fall from financial success and social prominence.<br />Just as in any family saga, there are many heart-rending tales. The sory of the little baby chicks in Chapter Six and the many tales of sibling animosity are unexpectedly cutting. However, it is the tales concerning her grandfather's and aunt's gradual enfeeblement at the hands of their son's new wife, Niang, that raise the mostdisturbing questions.<br />Readers, raised in families torn by abuse and neglect, will only too quickly recognize the author's psychological difficulties, which affect her own troubled, first marriage, her lack of self-confidence, her efforts to reconcile estranged family members, and her father-worship. Her arguments with both her ste p-mother's and father's children are also suprisingly bitter in detail, but typical for families affected by remarriage.<br />What gives this memoir its punch, is not that so much Niang and her influence on her husband, but the clash of cultures and history as played out in the personalities of the characters.  The memoir adds substance to dry discussions of Chinese history. It is much more than a Cinderella tale.	2001-01-21
US	44954499	RWO9X7FKL02FP	0520200551	427371657	The Memoirs of Lady Hyegyong: The Autobiographical Writings of a Crown Princess of Eighteenth-Century Korea	Books	5	53	55	N	N	The Korean Hamlet	&quot;The Memoirs of Lady Hyegyong&quot; is actually four different works written by one woman, a circumspect, scrupulous,  unfortunate 18th Century Korean aristocrat.  The memoirs are, successively, a family injunction, a memorial, a biography, and a historiography. At the center of the collection sits Hong Hyegyong and her husband, Crown Prince Sado. &quot;The Memoirs&quot; span the reigns of Yongjo, Chongjo, and Sunjo, and the careers of Lady Hyegyong's father, Hong Ponghan, and her older brothers.<br />Lady Hong Hyegyong was the wife of Crown Prince Sado, who in 1762, was ordered by his father, King Yongjo, to step into a rice chest, which was susequently bound and covered in sod. Crown Prince Sado had been punished by his father for a series of heinous murders caused by Sado's mental illness. Lady Hyegyong and her family, including her son, the future King Chongjo, then became the focal point of factional quarrels at court, each side using the execution of the Crown Prince, to its own political advantage.<br />Lady Hyegyong, in the first three memoirs, strives to defend her father and brothers against chages of treason and complicity in Sado's execution. The last memoir is a defense of her husband. All four are addressed to her grandson, King Sunjo, to restore the honor of her family.<br />Although Lady Hyegyong nor Haboush could ascertain the specific cause of Crown Prince Sado's illness, and Lady Hyegyong's anecdotal evidence is hardly scientific, I would like to offer ''hwabyong'', or, in Korean, ''fire disease'' or ''anger disease''.  ''Hwabyong'', as offered by Alford in &quot;Think No Evil: Korean Values In The Age Of Globalization&quot; (see review), is ''...a unique Korean folk syndrome...'' characterized by ''...anxiety, panic,...and the suppression of anger...'' (p. 77).  Korean fire disease's ''...symptoms reflect[s] the constraints of the culture: not just on the expression of of emotion, but the lack of opportunity...to change...''(p. 79).  Only Crown Prince Sado,and the evidence offered in &quot;The Memoir of 1805&quot;, can affirm this conjecture.<br />The last work, &quot;The Memoir of 1805&quot;, is a brilliant psychological portrait of  Crown Prince Sado. It is a revealing exercise in historical writing, and also reveals the mind of an extraordinary woman trying to understand some of the most harrowing personal tragedies any spouse or daughter might face.<br />&quot;The Memoirs&quot; can be compared to Lady Murasaki Shikibu's &quot;The Tale of Genji&quot;, &quot;Hamlet&quot;, and the lives of the Roman Emperors.  One major failing of Haboush's''Introduction'' is, that she does not place the incidents in a broader historical and international context. But she does manage to argue against abridging and collecting each work into a longer historical novel. A broader focus would further aid in understanding Lady Hyegyong's dedication in defense of her brothers and father.<br />This is not only a valuable history, but it is also another demonstration of the narrative powers of Asian women authors operating in a patriarchical, almost misogynistic, culture.	2001-01-21
US	44954499	RAZHC8R7T4L1C	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Spiritual Experience	Reading a Banana Yoshimoto book is a spiritual experience. Kitchen handles death and love, and the agony of personal choice, with vivid, spunky humor and poignancy. As one watches a Yoshimoto character struggle with crisis, the horors of one's own life dwindle into relative insignificance.<br />Kitchen is actually two tales, &quot;Kitchen&quot; and &quot;Moonlight Shadow&quot;. Both include characteristic Yamamoto-esque touches: the transsexual Eriko and the adolescent Hiiragi, who wears his deceased girlfriend's school uniform in mourning. Throughout both is the metaphor of a kitchen, a place to mix foods and unite people in a fellowship of sharing and joy.<br />Yoshimoto's characters may seem off-base and outrageous, but she handles their lives with care and respect. In &quot;Kitchen&quot;, the narrator braves distances and heights to deliver a personal message to her beloved. In &quot;Moonlight Shadow&quot;, a lover bids farewell to her deceased beloved through the magic of a freak natural phenomenon. Life may destroy and steal happiness, but it also delivers a way to heal all inner wounds. In the end, a Yoshimoto character is stronger, happier, and more complete for the rigors face	2001-01-21
US	44954499	R2DCR32IU7T6XB	0393316815	860277850	Korea's Place in the Sun: A Modern History	Books	4	102	115	N	N	A Partisan and Selective Account	One of the first books I read about Korea, Korea's Place in the Sun: A Modern History, illustrates the importance of interpreting history cautiously. Korean history, because of the division of the peninsula between two warring countries, is highly politicized. Cumings has been generally classified as a New Left historian and as sympathetic to the North Korean regime. The second charge is just mud-slinging, but the first generalization is still an active question in South Korean politics and academia.<br />First, since the book's publication in 1997, the Koreas have undergone many changes, both domestically and in their relations. South Korea's media and academic industries have also matured, and expression is more lively and open. There are more generalist and expert histories available on the market, so the importance of Cumings' work is easier to evaluate.<br />Cumings is generally a proponent of unification. This taints his history in several ways. First, Choson is depicted as a golden age of unified Korean power. Cumings also supports the Conservative Korean line, that foreigners wrecked Choson and downplays evidence of aristocratic factionalism and the weakness of the Korean central government. His discussion of the Japanese Occupation downplays the role of Korean businessmen in the Occupation economy and government. His account of the Korean War is heavy on politics and military leadership discussions, but spare on soldier's recollections.  Cumings' sections on North Korean industrialization are competent, but since 1997 the subject has been better researched. Cumings still cannot compensate for the dearth of economic data, which plagues accounts to the present.<br />Cumings also burdens his account of  Korean history with questionable social psychological opinions about the nature of Korean culture. He reinforces the conservative Korean view of the unique mission and origin of the Korean people as offspring of divine forces, a tactic the Koreans share with the Japanese. His account is subtly anti-global and anti-foreign. For this reason, his account is by Korean standards mainstream unificationist, but his open-minded treatment of North Korea notwithstanding, he is aligned with the forces of anti-globalization.<br />Not that the book does not contain valuable information about Korean history presented with colorful prose. However, what Cumings omits is damning. Most of ancient Korean history is omitted, which accentuates Choson at the expense of earlier dynasties.  Discussions of religion are downplayed for politics and sociology.  Cumings does not hide his bias, but readers need to examine his opinions well and use his footnotes for independent evaluation. And, by all means, read other newer books about Korea.	2000-12-29
US	44954499	R5XI5B4VF0NGA	0801436664	747521514	Think No Evil: Korean Values in the Age of Globalization	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Serious Straight Talk About Korea	I found this book in a bookstore near Myong-dong in Seoul, South Korea. I was attracted by the subtitle first. Having just read &quot;The Lexus And The Olive Tree&quot;, I wanted to know more about Koreans' opinions on globalization. Since December, 1997, Koreans have used the term &quot;IMF&quot; synonymously with &quot;recession&quot;. The Korean press has not done an adequate job reporting the causes of the 1997 recession. Therefore, terms like &quot;IMF Crisis&quot; and even using &quot;IMF&quot; for &quot;sale&quot; (as small businesses folded), have smothered intelligent debate on the economic aspects of a very complicated subject. Alford's book attempts to understand this curious phenomenon. But, I was most interested by Alford's connection between evil and globalization.<br />Koreans are very nationalistic, which tends to create a parochial frame of mind. Globalization is a sometimes contentious issue for Koreans, and frustration is not uncommon. It is difficult for non-Koreans to understand Korean thinking, because of the barriers such parochial thinking creates, but also because Korean and Western thinking is so different. Alford manages to maintain criticality without being close-minded.<br />This book, at 186 pages, is a quick read, but it is thick with academic jargon. However, Alford manages to lightly tread over abtuse debates in linguistics, psychology, philosophy, and economics, because the heart of his research is interviews with real people. His anecdotes are amusing, especially for someone who knows Korean and has met Koreans. Readers unacquainted with Korea or Koreans should pay attention to the answers the respondents gave, to best appreciate Korean culture. Alford has a knack for leading the reader through the tactical shifts of his arguments as he confronts new data. Alford also responsibly provides a research appendix, notes, and an index.<br />This book is a competent academic research book which also tries to reveal the mind of the author.The subject matter is topical, but philosophical at the same time. His discussion of the Korean and Confucian concept of &quot;chong&quot; (skinship or harmony) is both respectful and accessible to non-Koreans. Because of his research methodology, it is hard not to find humor in this very serious subject. This is serious reading with respect and humor for a culture often hostile to foreigners.	2000-12-28
