US	44950632	R1WVW52FSH8CQE	075821166X	442419409	A Foreign Affair	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An Affair To Remember	Reviews are a wonderful outlet for me to express my thoughts good or bad about an authors work but I'm glad I rarely allow reviews to shape my opinion of what a story makes me feel in the end or I may be left wondering if I've read the same book as my fellow book lovers.<br /><br />I truly enjoyed Keino Mazrui and Amara Terrell's journey to love.  I applaud Ms Safaa on her venture into creating a love story uniting different cultures although connected by blood and history.  I've had the book on my shelf for a couple of months but picked it up today hoping for a better read than the previous book I suffered through and was delighted A Foreign Affair was not only an easy read but a wonderful adventure.<br /><br />I found Keino's dialog resonant to that of African's especially those who have extensive education.  I could hear Keino's struggle to express his emotions assuring Amara of his desire for her and his efforts to remain loyal to his country and respect his family's position.  I loved his brothers and their relationship with each other as well as their easy banter.  His parents love and respect for one another and their children was obvious.<br /><br />Amara's family was loving, wonderful, and supportive.  Mr & Mrs Terrell shared a similar balance in raising their daughters as the Mazuri's had their sons and the fact Amara was named after Ana's one time friend and roommate added a sense of destiny.<br /><br />The story weaned in sharing Mekena's fate as well as that of Robert King, did Keino send him a warning for scaring the bejesus out of his beloved Armara? and is their a restraining order? Robert King didn't seem to have a mean spirit, I hope he finds love.  Possibly a few of those details will be made clear in future books because I am waiting for Ras and Cassandra's love affair to equal and surpass Chilufiya's debut novel and I'm hoping to learn what lies ahead for the Afiya and Adana Terrell.	2005-10-04
US	44950632	R3G7UNMJ76OGPX	1583145664	82204935	A Fool For You (Arabesque)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Nobody's Fool	Dr John Flores and his ghostwriter/assistant Nina Whitney take center stage in A Fool For You and in Schuster's unique style you are taken on a sizzling romantic journey you don't want to end.  Nina is not a woman waiting for the right man, although she loves John (but hates to admit it) she doesn't see herself becoming a \\"St Benita\\" of Deveraux/Cochran woman.  She has had a hard life full of betrayal, abandonment, disappointments, shuffling through foster care then a life on the street fending for herself.<br /><br />John grew up the adopted son of devoted parents who loved him unconditionally and provided the very best they had. Even with their differences John and Nina are good for each other, he is someone she can finally depend on and trust in, she brings him the love he witnessed in his parents and envied in Benita and Clay.<br /><br />What I love about Melanie's books are you not only glimpse back at previous characters you've grown to love but they are still an integral part of the new story without taking over, like Alicia and Adam accompanying John to California and those beloved family get-to-gethers.  The 2006 countdown won't just have me ringing in a new year but a new adventure when \\"at last\\" Paris and Titus will add another notch to Ms Schuster's literary career.  A Fool For You is WONDERFUL, FRESH, AND SEXY! so be prepared to get your read on.  Thanks Melanie you are truly among the elite of talented authors.	2005-08-27
US	44950632	RKMKBGLIVGIL0	1583146628	111667227	With Open Arms (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	They Made It	The one thing I didn't like about WITH OPEN ARMS is that it is possibly the last of the Allgood series, unless Kenyon's brother gets his own story then maybe we can get an invite to Van and Morgan's wedding.  Van and Morgan had history that she didn't remember but he never forgot.  The story takes us back to the day chubby child actor Donovan McNeil first laid eyes on cute little Morgan Allgood at a commercial shoot, for the captivated Donovan time stood still and a piece of his heart would forever remain frozen to that moment.<br /><br />Morgan \\"the beautiful sister\\" has had a successful if not phenomenal modeling career. Her lifestyle allows her to date a variety of men from actors to music artist but Morgan's silent desire is to have \\"someone special\\" to share her life with.  Van McNeil is no longer the \\"fat kid\\" actor but a sexy and handsome TV Weatherman at the top of his craft as well as the top fantasy for many women viewers.  After their disastrous first date Morgan and Van have avoided one another eventhough his best friend Gordon and her sister Ashley are about to be married.<br /><br />Morgan has a talent for clothes designing and makes the family's wedding dresses, it is getting that creation to her sister in time for the wedding that is the start to the road trip from hell that causes her and Van to face the deep feelings they have for one another.  I never felt Van was commitment-phobic, he wanted Morgan but fear and pride kept him from revealing the extent of what lay in his heart for her. I didn't think the dress was what Morgan was holding back, but her heart and the control she felt she might lose to a man with Van's reputation.  Their road to love was funny, and sometimes dangerous, but for me it was an enjoyable ride.<br /><br />As always in Kim's books I find characters I hope to read about again, Brax is one of them.  Kudos Kim, your work and talent continue to grow.	2005-07-10
US	44950632	R1CJY51K4X4P1Y	1583145656	166168264	Something to Talk About (Arabesque)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	This One Will Keep You Talking	If this were a movie it would be a blockbuster hit.  Melanie reveals long hidden truths in this continuing Cochran/Deveraux saga with Adam Cochran and his \\"business\\" partner and \\"best friend\\" Alicia Fuentes taking center stage.  Witnessing Adam and Alicia's constant companionship at the on-going Cochran/Deveraux gatherings it was a matter of time and constant harrassment of loyal readers before this gifted author gave us \\"Something To Talk About\\".<br /><br />Adam and Alica have been friends since college, although they were involved with other people their friendship was always  special.  In a life altering discovery that deepens the unique bond between the pair Adam becomes the strength, comfort and security the devastated Alicia needs to hold her up.  It is  their mutual respect for one another and their desire to protect their friendship that they make a promise to never allow anything to change it.<br /><br />During their 10 year friend/companionship they have honored their promise, although both date, their hearts wont continue to deny the depth of the love they feel for one another. It is with a little coaxing from Bryant Porter, Clay Deveraux's friend and best man at his wedding, as well as a little competition that Alicia thinks is after Adam that spurs them into action and confessions of the heart.  Adam and Alicia's love revelation finally puts an end of them perpetrating simply friends to discover what they've wanted all along, \\"EACH OTHER\\"!!  It's after their realization that the story opens to more revelations in a big way.<br /><br />Questions about John Flores are answered, family is united and reunited giving new meaning to \\"AM I MY BROTHERS KEEPER\\".  This is another Schuster book that you laugh, laugh, and enjoy the love.  Bryant Porter, the Fuentes brothers, Titus and Paris, are a few of the stories I look for in the future, A Fool For You, John and Nina's story will more than likely provide \\"Something(else)To Talk About\\" very soon.	2005-03-22
US	44950632	R3SOO1KJX2ULMT	1583145311	87912978	With Every Breath (Arabesque)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Still Holding My Breath	With Every Breath is 426 pages of pure reading pleasure.  The ending is a true classic.  Professor Imani Maxwell and Special Agent Garrison Wade proved that love overcomes a multitude of faults, fears, and hurts.  Brought together by the mysterious abduction of one of Imani's top and favorite students Althea Pritchard, the story takes us on a chase to find the kidnapper before it's too late for the neice of the County Executive who have both already suffered their own personal tragedy.<br /><br />Garrison and Imani's journey to love happens within a relatively short time but is not rushed. Imani is afraid to trust her heart because of the fear that remains over the death of her father who was also an FBI Special Agent.  To further complicate her growing emotions for Garrison is her on/off again relationship with childhood friend David Scott, a rising star in the law firm he hopes to make partner.<br /><br />Haboring his own ghost, Garrison is definitely a man who sets out to meet his goals and works diligently to make it happen.  Solving Althea's kidnapping case successfully is a priority but so is winning the heart of the natural beautiful Imani.  When a possible threatening note is left for the popular professor, Garrison knows his desire to protect her goes beyond professional duty.  As everyone begins to look like a suspect sometimes even those hired to protect the matters of the case it's hard to determine who the abducter is or the reason.<br /><br />The secondary characters add much to the storyline.  I was hooked to the very end.  I have not read Ms Smith's debut novel but I will definitely be on the lookout for it.  I look for more from this exceptional author in the future. KUDOS	2005-01-12
US	44950632	R1YNJ6M8EZ9ROF	1585711330	248728491	A Happy Life (Love Spectrum Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Happy Story	A Happy Life was a feel good read.  I ejoyed the humor, wit, and playfulness of all the characters.  When we first meet Justice Dillard she is a Parking Enforcement Officer who has just booted Anthony \\"Tony\\" Williams car.  Although their meeting is brief, Tony is immedately taken with the no-nonsense beauty and does a little friendly flirting.  Sometime later, Justice is in a new job as a 9-1-1 operator and rushing to work to keep from being late when she is pulled over by Officer Tony Williams.  Justice finds it ironic Tony is a police officer and after their first meeting is sure she will get a ticket, however, Tony lets her go with a warning and a plan to win the heart of Justice.<br /><br />Justice has a rule about dating officers but Tony's persistence and her attraction to the former pro football player breaks down her resolve in playing the friendship game they erected at first, and she finally lets go to experience the emotions that had been building between them from day they first met.<br /><br />There is a great supporting cast on Justice and Tony's wonderful and eventful journey to their \\"Happy Life\\".  From Tony's first encounter with Charlie, Chelsea chasing Trevor through the parking lot and Tony uttering \\"that's one scary woman\\" prompting the gang to reply in unison \\"WE KNOW!!\\".  As well as Tony's sister Brenda, cousin Billy who is a cop and his wife Sharon.  Justice's best friend Mike, the parents and the insightful little Rachel, Darius, and the twins. As well as the tragic efforts of Tony's ex, Alexis.<br /><br />Sometimes too many characters detracts and makes the storyline  cluttered, this is not so with A Happy Life.  Ms Harris has done a great job in keeping the pace and focus of this story. I don't know what she'll do for an encore but I do hope to see this special group again.	2004-12-25
US	44950632	R2BOIPT7S8B829	0312331789	830530738	The Playa's Handbook (Players Series)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Playa' Playa'	This is a slightly different Brenda Jackson book but still has her signature. The story focuses on four very fine and successful brotha's who have experienced heartache for various reasons.<br /><br />Lance Montgomery,Phd author and renound relationship expert.  Twice divorced and product of a broken home is a skeptic of love and romance.  His latest book the infamous \\"The Playa's Handbook\\" emphasizes his playa views. His lifelong friend Samuel Gunn is bitter after a divorce from his wife of two years who after having an affair with a co-worker remarries less than two months after their divorce.<br /><br />Sam's friends Phillip McKenna, divorced for two years after his ex chose career over being a wife and mother.  Comfortable with their weekly ex-sex liason, her sudden decision to end things has again changed his life.  Marcus Lowery has been a widower for over a year, he and his beloved Dottie shared something special. Trying to move on after her tragic death, he's not ready for love, but sex is another issue.<br /><br />I thought Sam, Phillip and Marcus were \\"wanna-be-playa's\\" from the start, a sentiment they echo when they finally realize playa's eventually play out but real men know how to keep things going.  Phillip is a committed father left to handle an out of control situation with his daughter neglected by his ex. He meets Atty. Terri Davenport a widow and her daughter and has to evaluate the rules of a real playa' and those of a real man.<br /><br />Meeting new neighbor Falon Taylor a master chief challenges Sam's decision to follow the playa's 10 golden rules. While a visit from the grave and postal supervisor Naomi Monroe teach Marcus that true forgiveness doesn't have rules.<br /><br />Lance is a review all alone, his treatment of Dr Asia Fowler is a definite cause of regret for him as well as a need to review his own rules.  I have no doubt the sequel to TPH will have him doing just that.  I can't wait to find out what love has in store for Lyle, Logan and sister Carrie. I enjoyed this book.  Mrs. Jackson keeps getting better without a doubt.  It's not a wonder she is a best selling author. Thanks Brenda, you've done it again.book.  Mrs. Jackson keeps getting better without a doubt.  It's not a wonder she is a best selling author. Thanks Brenda, you've done it again.	2004-10-31
US	44950632	R2H51TUDXWGZ0	0060540672	455617332	The Edge of Dawn	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Cyclops And His Angel	Ms Jenkins has done it again.  Even when not writing historicals she is giving lessons into the rich African American legacy that is an integrel part of America's history.<br /><br />The mysterious Galen Anthony \\"Saint\\" St Martin, a self proclaimed mercenary finds himself pitted against an old enemy in his quest to find the Eye of Sheba. Teamed with the beautiful Narice Jordan, founder and CEO of Jordan Academy a school for children of the elite and daughter of the Eyes Keeper.  Saint never suspected this assignment would not only have his life in danger but his heart as well.<br /><br />Narice is kidnapped not once but twice after burying her father who died in a suspicious house fire.  Saint discovers the hard way there is alot more to the headmistress than her file indicates as he chases the former track star through the streets of Detroit.  Trying to convince Narice her safety is his priority as they prepare to meet The Majesty is the cause of some very funny moments between the pair.<br /><br />Using the quilt her father left as their road map to find the treasured Eye.  Saint and Narice become one anothers salvation against armed helicopters, car chases, laced darts and syringes as their lives are constantly endangered and they get closer to finding the Eye. As well as closer to realizing the full depth of their attraction.<br /><br />Narice is no screaming female waiting for her galant hero to rescue her. But, she can't ignore her need for the handsome, shaded cheetah.  Saint's admiration and reverence for the fearless strength of this classy woman who's not afraid to admit her faults grows along with his emotions he trys to protect.<br /><br />Great secondary characters, Uncle Willie and Arnold don't play, Jesse and James really don't play.  Portia is a force alone and Aunt Camille takes no prisoners.  Although Mykel and Sarita played a small part I missed not seeing Hizzoner.  I loved everything about this book and did not think Saint was literally blind only in the sense of bad vision the way many of us who wear vision enhancements are.  I recommend for those who have not read the prequel, Edge Of Midnight is a must read.any of us who wear vision enhancements are.  I recommend for those who have not read the prequel, Edge Of Midnight is a must read.	2004-10-30
US	44950632	RY69FGPS8F5EY	1583145206	731859779	A Merry Little Christmas (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	.....and  A  Happy New Year!!!!	Adonis(Donnie)Cochran, CEO of Cochran Communications is the youngest member of a very succesful family.  Angelique(Angel) Deveraux is the youngest and only girl of media giant, The Deveraux Group (TDG).  Donnie and Angel have a lot in common, they are even family by marriage, but the bond they truly share is their total distain for one another.<br /><br />Donnie's first encounter with Angel caused him to dubb her Evilene or his more affectionate \\"EVIE\\".  I wondered how the battling duo would get to their neutral corners long enough for them to come out kissing.  But, in Diva Schuster style, their love not only bloomed but ignited a flame in a few other characters I can't wait to see in the future.<br /><br />Donnie is young, intelligent, and handsome.  Can't beat that combination, except, he is also rich.  He knows what he wants and makes it happen.  Donnie knows he wants the same kind of love and solid relationship he sees in his family.  But, after his marriage proposal is rejected by his long time girlfriend, he is forced to search his heart for what it truly wants.  Angelique is finally becoming her own woman.  More self assured and confident, she has found her nitche and talent in photography.  She is more than the spoiled bratty, and selfish young girl she is labeled.  However, she still harbors a secret that has been much of the reason for the attitude that became her crutch. She too, desires the kind of love she is surrounded by but doesn't think she'll ever find.<br /><br />Although Donnie and Angel feign contempt for each other, they are feeling things neither wants to admit and are fighting their attraction for different reasons.  But, it is a friend's  Vegas wedding, some extra sips of the bubbly, and the longing and desire they can't control that brings them their destiny in each other.  It is Donnie's acceptance, total support and love that help Angel continue toward her transformation.  Together they create another link that binds those tall and talented, smart and sexy, fabulous and fine, Deveraux/Cochran's in love and spirit.<br /><br />Melanie manages to somehow blend important life issues, such as terminal illness, date rape, diabeties, dyslexia, and more, in with the excitement of romance and hope for a love that truly does conquers all.  I can't wait to see what lay ahead for Titus and Paris.  Fantastic read.abulous and fine, Deveraux/Cochran's in love and spirit.    Melanie manages to somehow blend important life issues, such as terminal illness, date rape, diabeties, dyslexia, and more, in with the excitement of romance and hope for a love that truly does conquers all.  I can't wait to see what lay ahead for Titus and Paris.  Fantastic read.	2004-10-07
US	44950632	RLC55EQINUQ02	0312993064	752328150	Never Tell	Books	5	1	2	N	N	"Never Tell"	NEVER TELL is an edge of your seat murder-mystery-romance thriller, uniting criminal psychology professor, Dr Erin Abbott, with Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and news paper owner, Gabriel Moss. Both are on the trail of a killer preying on the men and women of New Orleans in what is dubbed the \\"ABC Murders\\".  I was totally absorbed by the time the twisted motive and killers identity was revealed.  This book proves Ms. Montgomery is truly fine tuning her craft.<br /><br />As the city of New Orleans becomes a pawn for a killers bizarre plan of retribution.  Dr. Erin Abbott finds her anonymity threatened when she begins to receive mail containing clues that cleaverly links the past she wants to forget, with seemingly random murders within the city.<br /><br />Initially, Erin tries to report her knowledge to the police without revealing her connection, but she nor her theory are  given credibility.  Gabriel Moss's gut reaction to the details he overhears is not so easy for him to dismiss.  He is positive the good doctor is harboring more than her ability to decipher the abstract evidence.<br /><br />Although police disregard her claim, Erin is locked in a game of words with a killer playing out their revenge.  As Gabe follows Erin for the story he's sure will be big, she is not eager for his attention to the case or to her.  But while seeking to uncover the story behind the ABC Murders and save his struggling Ledger, Gabe also hopes to uncover the beauty the good doctor is hiding beneath her ill fitting and unfashionable attire.<br /><br />As the horror of Erin's past is reflected in the terror of the present, I felt the victims fear as realization of their impending death permeated their final thoughts.  I visualized Nathan's indelible paranoia escalate in witness to Analise's linguistic genius.  I cried for Analise who sought the acceptance and security of her demented captor.  I felt the despair of this unique prodigee' whose gift amazed the greatest scholars.  I applauded Sebastian's love and loyality for the lifelong bond nearly destroyed by envy and jealousy. I admired Gabriel's committment to protect the woman he loved from the secret of her past.  I was overjoyed when Erin finally found a love that would cherish and heal her for all time.<br /><br />BRAVO, Selena.  I also recommend Rules of Engagement.nd loyality for the lifelong bond nearly destroyed by envy and jealousy. I admired Gabriel's committment to protect the woman he loved from the secret of her past.  I was overjoyed when Erin finally found a love that would cherish and heal her for all time.    BRAVO, Selena.  I also recommend Rules of Engagement.	2004-07-05
US	44950632	R2M65HVSCQQO9O	1583144706	887624114	Forever After (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hunt, Kill, Provide and Protect	When Jova Parker, owner of Tesses &amp; Locks a hot new Salon met Davan Underwood an auto mechanic helping in his uncle's business, she never expected the life changing events that would follow.<br />Jova met Davan after being sued in court by her ex, Herman.  Davan immediately knew he wanted Jova and proceeded with a vengence to make her a part of his life.  At times Davan's aggessiveness in persuing their relationship could be interpreted as demanding, but his honest affection and consideration of Jova's needs were what lend balance to his quest.<br />Jova had given up hope on finding a man who would be true to commitment.  After her break-up with Herman she vowed &quot;no more relationships&quot;.  She had endured enough hurt by men who promised their heart but ended up destroying hers.  This was a major reason Davan's unwavering attempts to change Jova's perspective about a relationship scared as well as fasinated her.  While Jova struggled to believe this wonderful, tall, dark, handsome, and caring man could truly have a heart to match his outer appearance.  There were still old demons and jealousies that continued to haunt their blossoming love.<br />Davan's uncle David although a secondary character proved a key player in both Jova and Davan's lives.  Herman was a conviving, scheming, bottom feeder until the very end.  While Dawn was a scandalous witch who should one day find true justice for her evil deeds.  I loved cousins Kay and Hooper, the crazy and in love couple that makes you love them too.  Ms White, has the ability to allow the reader to share the characters, heartache, disappointments, and fear as well as experience their love, desire, and truimphs.  Her characters aren't perfect and their lives reflect that.  Sometimes issues are still left for the reader to wonder??<br />BRAVO, Kimberley this is another great romance.  Other must reads by Ms White is TANGO, and ONLY IN MY DREAMS.	2004-05-29
US	44950632	R2UO8XCLAXMLIK	0060533072	23132059	Unforgettable	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	***WONDERFUL****	This book is HOT!!! I love reading a Bette Ford book.  Bette is a great romance writer who presents strong, caring, successful African American men and women of integrity.  Since becoming a die-hard AA romance book fan there are several authors I count on to deliver not only the spice and the flavor but also serve up a positive message.  Although love may be color blind, society isn't and oftentimes true romance between an African American couple are seldom portrayed realistically in any form of media.<br /><br />Gavin Mathis is indicative of Ms. Ford's characters.  He exudes athletic prowess and that added with his good looks provides him with plenty of play on and off the field.  Gavin in not interested in being a player-playa, he's a man of well grounded moral convictions despite his worthless fathers disappearance and reappearance (when the money begins to flow).  Gavin wants a woman that wants him for the man he is and not merely the lifestyle he can afford them.<br /><br />Anna Prescott is a beautiful, confident woman who shares partnership in a successful catering business.  Anna has grown up the only girl in a family of over protective men which includes Gavin who is best friend and teammate of her older brother Wesley.  I enjoyed Anna's character because she was not weak or afraid to take charge of her life, she also was not hoping for that one man to come along to define her.<br /><br />Both Anna and Gavin risk the stability and bond of family and friendship to explore emotions they try to deny but yet won't remain dormat.  Anna's strength and Gavin's unwavering committment not to allow what they've discovered in each other to be minimized by others is what helps to make this such a wonderful romance.<br /><br />I've found Bette's secondary characters are as strong as the primary without removing the spotlight.  Many have been featured in their own story and it's always good when they make an appearance.  I look forward to a story for Scott (After Dark) he needs closure.  I hope there is a story in Kyle and Wayne's future too.is a story in Kyle and Wayne's future too.	2004-04-22
US	44950632	R36C5YQKA7EI4M	1594270252	355179195	Take Time 2 Know Him	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"Taking The Time"	I thought this book was a phenomenal read.  This first time author took us on the highs and lows of a young women experiencing too soon life issues she was not prepared for.  The herione Deidre Dickerson was typical of young people who think they know all the answers.  She discovers through hardships that adult decisions carry adult consequences.<br /><br />Dee finds herself a young mother who becomes involved in a series of wrong relationships looking for love and security that can not be found in the arms of the men she thinks will become her savior. This book is an inspirationl journey as Dee discovers true love can only be realized when we examine ourselves accepting the precious gift from within before it can be manifested from without.<br /><br />I look forward to more from D.L. Christie.  She has a \\"tell it like it is\\" writing style that grips you until the last page.  Kudos Ms. Christie. Great first effort!!	2004-03-23
US	44950632	R9Q8QLLURVLXT	0972148213	435368303	A Feeling Like No Other	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"What A Feeling"	I have been a fan of this author since reading my first Bussey novel Dangerous Passions a few years ago.  Through Amazon I back ordered her other books and have not been disappointed since then.<br />In the usual Bussey style we are given characters who are not afraid to love to the fullest.  Sierra Harper is a young women whose outer and inner beauty compliment her talent.  Sierra is captivated by the older and seductive Eldrige.  Through him she experiences a love that she could only imagine however, his possesiveness is a threat to what they share.<br />Sierra has a way of attracting the opposite sex that she is completely unaware of as well as inciting the wrath of jealously in the women who wished they could capture those same eyes beholding Sierra.  As her career progresses she finds Marcus not only wants to be a part of creating her success but creating a place in her heart for him.  Bradley, Marcus' best friend and partner is also a part of her successful career climb and also holds a secret hope for a place in Ms. Sierra's life that goes beyond the friendship he keeps as a front.  None of them are aware of the extremes that will be taken to keep Sierra from achieving her dreams and future.<br />I could not wait until this book hit the stores.  It was worth the wait.  I love AA romance books and Loure' is definitely one of this genres premiere stars.	2004-03-22
US	44950632	RSG4D1N3ZT5PH	1585710709	921177977	Once In A Blue Moon (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Luv-N-Color	I don't often read interracial romances but I like a good love story and Once In A Blue Moon definitely proved to be that for me. Black or White Ian Phillips loved his \\"little\\" Denise Adams unconditionally. There are mitigating factors to most conflicts and race along with family views of \\"crossing over\\" can be a major factor. Denise was sheltered, quiet, and docile where as Ian was adventurous, opinionated, and aggressive but both were highly intelligent. Ian is working as a private contractor upgrading computers for the government agency that employs Denise who is assigned to assist him when the project runs into trouble.<br /><br />Ian is smitten right away and sets out on making Denise a part of his world regardless of her resistence (I like a man who can weather the storm). Denise was bound by her loyalty and love of a strong African American family with deep civil rights ties, but her life took on a new found freedom and excitement with Ian that her ex-man Kenny could never bring out of her. Lynn the sister who practically raised Denise, and her inabilty to accept a white man loving her \\"baby girl\\" is the main reason she is reluctant to share the new happiness she's found with Ian. There are several special moments that I found in Blue Moon; their mother's confession after asking Denise about her new love, Andy's \\"pale, anorexic glue-sniffing\\" reference to Ian's dating habits, I was touched by Ian's overall emotion when Denise told him they could not be together, as well as the extent he went to show his grief.<br /><br />I have this book on my shelf of re-reads. I hope Ms. Cole continued success and hope she lets us share in Ian and Denise's \\"Luv-n-Color\\" once again.	2003-05-29
US	44950632	RLXNLVN68KLOP	0451207653	72416905	Living Large	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Large and In Charge	This book definitely lives up to the LARGE expectations from these four dynamic authors.  Since many women are Living Large in size 14 and up these tales of love beyond measure are refreshing and appreciated.<br />Rochelle Alers reminds us in REUNION that good things can come to those that wait and good guys don't always finish last. Reuben &quot;The Scientist&quot; Whitfield, DDS, was considered the school nerd but Reuben like many of his male classmates was as fasinated with the buxom beauty and brains of his friend Elaine Jackson.  Elaine's heart belonged to Dwight Stewart, campus jock and to the dismay of many hopefuls and damaged heart of Reuben they married after high school.  Now twenty-five years later Elaine and Dwight are divorced and Reuben is looking to relocate his dental practice using EJ Reality, Elaine's company.  With their impending twenty-fifth high school reunion Reuben is still single, handsome, and far from the school nerd but ready to prove to Elaine how boyhood fantasies can be a lasting love for both of them.<br />Donna Hill's wonderfully sweet story of successful caterers Vincent and Elizabeth Howell married thirty years and in for the SURPRISE of a lifetime.  I enjoyed the love that flowed between this couple, and the pride Lizzie had in the package she was wrapped in.  Vincent's actions spoke of his love for his wife but he was not beyond speaking it, especially when Vincent tells her he is &quot;more in love&quot; with her or when he looks into her eyes and says &quot;keep the light on&quot;.<br />In Brenda Jackson's BARE ESSENTIALS less is not always more, especially for Atty Jordan Prescott.  Judge Dominique Kincaid captured more than Jordan's attention on their morning runs with the fullness of a body that had him anxious to see her again.  Finding out the women who has been stealing his thoughts is also the youngest judge appointed to the bench does not deter Jordan from pursuing the good judge.  Dominique is flattered and fearful of Jordan's FULL attention but the chemstry between them proves to more legal than an opposition.<br />Francis Ray's STRICTLY BUSINESS is the ultimate BBW testimony. Monica Jones a solid size 22 and wearing it well enough to garner the attention and hot pursuit of Installation by Design company owner Garrett McKnight. After witnessing a humiliating incident between Monica and her ex, Garrett is more than impressed with her style and beauty and finding that he will be working with this captivating women sets his plan in motion to prove he is all the man she needs and is determined to show her that some men know how to handle all the women she is and more.<br />Living Large was a true delight, Thank You Ladies from all of us BBW's....of Jordan's FULL attention but the chemstry between them proves to more legal than an opposition.   <br />Francis Ray's STRICTLY BUSINESS is the ultimate BBW testimony. Monica Jones a solid size 22 and wearing it well enough to garner the attention and hot pursuit of Installation by Design company owner Garrett McKnight. After witnessing a humiliating incident between Monica and her ex, Garrett is more than impressed with her style and beauty and finding that he will be working with this captivating women sets his plan in motion to prove he is all the man she needs and is determined to show her that some men know how to handle all the women she is and more.<br />Living Large was a true delight, Thank You Ladies from all of us BBW's....	2003-01-14
US	44950632	R262AFWP8JE86I	1585710814	220082234	Tomorrow's Promise (Homeland Heroes and Heroines)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Promises for a Lifetime!!!!!	This book was too deep.  Leslie managed with great skill to weave a beautiful and meaningful love story through a real life tradegy that has this country still experiencing aftershocks.  LTC Tina Johnston is a career officer and the first African American woman to hold her rank and position in the JAG corp.  Dedication to duty and her country has left little to no time to dedicate to herself and at 38yrs her personal life has not bloomed as gloriously as her military career.<br />Tina is in China visiting her brother Wendell who lives in Shanghai with his ultra modern, business savvy, and very down to earth (\\"ninja warrior\\") wife Carol and their two kids.  Tina isn't prepared when she meets the 6'6, dark, handsome, too fyne business partner of Wendell's and the recently retired MI Army Colonel Mark Hicks isn't expecting to be so totally devastated when he finally meets the women who is his former mentors baby sister.  They click and it's on.<br />Like most of Leslie's books she lets you get to know the characters, she lets you into who they are and where they come from. Mark and Tina are two halfs of a whole, they both love family, and country and it's the love of country that propells Mark into action when he and Tina's plane is forced down in Canada after receiving the news that rocked the nation and has it scrambling to recoup.<br />Being retired military I especially appreciated the sincerity of this story in a series that is set to promote and feature through the characters the real life heroes of 9/11 with a portion of the book sales going the the Silver Shield foundation.  I always love Ms Esdaile abiltiy to create a bond with her secondary characters that make them just as important as the hero and heroine.  Keep on writing Leslie and we will keep on reading.  This book is a must read.	2002-10-24
US	44950632	R2I3V9EGRLNUL6	0971958610	609228572	Sweet Sacrifice	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Sweet and Satisfing	When Brandon Plaine and Sash Adams lives crossed on that fateful day she burst into his life asking his help in what seemed to him a preposterous scheme.  The CEO of Plaine Deal Media, a man accustomed to being in control and accepting very few challenges to his authority would find that the dreadlocked, unemployed, recent law school graduate would not only issue her own challenge but change his life forever.<br />Sash's little brother Sweet has been kidnapped and Brandon is the only man that can help her get him back. Although she is willing to do just about anything to keep her baby brother safe, she will not be dominated by a man nor circumstance.  Sash's character is fiery and bold, she is not impressed by Brandon's status or money, she only wants to save Sweets life. Brandon is intrigued even if a little unsettled with Sash, he finds himself believing her, and while the kidnappers changing demands seem to keep them from getting closer to Sweet, the pressure of those demands binds the two of them ever closer together.<br />Brandon had to call on his friend Sinclar Reasoner from SIN for a little assistance, I was glad Crystal let us peak in at Nedra and Sin, that is a couple I hope she gives us more of in the future.  Brandon had no idea of just how valuable Sash's determination would be for him, her, and most especially Sweet.  I loved this book, it kept me guessing right through to the end...  Keep on keeping on Ms Crystal.  I look forward to your next project.	2002-10-19
US	44950632	R381A9AR2830T7	1583143696	533474790	As Long As There Is Love (Arabesque)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Love Never Fails	It's been awhile since I submitted a review. Maybe it's my confusion with this story that has caused me to try my hand at this one. Cameron Butler and Marek Redding had a love affair while in college which produced a daughter Jayla that Marek, now, a pediatric M.D. is not aware of. Cameron was raised the only daughter of a loving but fairly domineering father who was extremely upset that his \\"babygirl\\" came home pregnant, especially when neither of their families seemed to support a relationship between the couple.<br />Cameron is a determined woman inspite of the challenges of single parenthood and is successful not only in raising Jayla but running her dream daycare center Little Darlings with the help of her granny and staff.  Cameron does have one thorn in her side with crazy Tara mother of Jayla's best friend Justin. But, it's an incident involving Justin that brings Marek back into her life and introduces him into Jayla's.<br />In general I enjoyed the book, what I had a problem with was the overt references to an underlying prejudice that is never addressed.  I was left wondering about the reason for the aparent animosity of Marek and Cameron's family? was it a racial or status issue.  All in all Ms White-Owens has made a good first effort, I hope she develops Greg's character he seems like a good guy.	2002-10-08
US	44950632	RF9Z9KK1RJLNP	1583142703	54543069	No Compromise (Arabesque)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	An Army of One!!!!!	To my delight Rochelle debuts her Hideaway Sons and Brothers trilogy with Michael Kirkland, Vows still remains my favorite of the Hideaway series. We get a glimpse of Michael in Just Before Dawn, Sara and Salem's story as well as Private Passions, Emily and Chris' story, but now, the spotlight is on him, a few years older and facing a major career indecision. CPT Kirkland's career with Military Intelligence has been his driving force he has definitely proven to be his father's son in many ways. Ms Jolene Walker, Executive Director of the Sanctuary, a program dedicated to victimized women, a program that holds more than a special meaning for Jolene whose passion behind her work contributed to her failed marriage and now only that passion for her work drives her.<br />Michael has taken a six month leave of absence from the military to decide the direction of his career, he is invited to a party by an old friend he met while on assignment in Japan, and even though the party has a couples theme Michael elects to make a solo appearance. Jolene has a comfortable date set to attend the party with, however, an emergency changes her plans and couples her with the sexy fine, Michael Kirkland, where needless to say fireworks are about to explode. Michael is immediately captivated with the model gorgeous, Jolene and she equally with the tall greeneyed soldier, a soldier who begins a mission to capture the heart of the women who makes him lose all control.<br />Jolene is afraid of exploring the strength of her emotions for Michael, she has guarded her heart since her divorce and has no intentions of repeating past mistakes but somebody should have warned her about the relentless pursuit of the Cole-Kirkland men when they have their prey targeted for capture. When Jolene's life is threatened, Michael becomes her protector and avenger in true Kirkland fashion. This book is worthy of the Hideaway legacy, 379 pages was not enough. I am patiently waiting on Tyler's story at 39 his time has come. Thank you Rochelle, you do have a way with words.time has come. Thank you Rochelle, you do have a way with words.	2002-01-31
US	44950632	R366K4GCCKYYZZ	1583142649	819914683	The Art Of Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	double-O - Danger and Desire	Selena Has Done It Again!! Former Congressman Phillip &quot;Sphinx&quot; Turman is trying to salvage the vestige of his life after the breakup with his fiancee and his subsequent capture and three year imprisonment in Jafir after an ISA assignment gone bad. Alex Walton is a talented but overly indulged rich girl who has a tendency to change direction in career and love quicker than a mid-season hurricane. Although Phillip and Alex both reside in D.C. it's the Atlanta based wedding of their best friends Adam &quot;Merlin&quot; and Raleigh &quot;Chimera&quot; that the Best Man and Maid of Honor meet, setting the stage for events that are bound to challenge the very essence of their existence.<br />When Phillip picks Alex up at the airport there's an instant attraction for both, but with Phillip still nursing a wounded heart and Alex declaring a moratorium against romance they keep their interest in check, however, a near fatal accident when leaving the airport further serves to spark their flame of interest and their date with destiny.<br />Phillip learns old enemys never die and his life as well as Alex's is in jeapordy, Atlas has enlisted him to not only keep Alex safe but return to Jafir to ensure the completion of a twenty-five year old mission. As the threat of danger heats up so does the heat between Alex and Phillip. I enjoyed going on assignment again with the ISA team, seeing the love between Raleigh and Adam growing, and witnessing the new found love of Phillip and Alex that they both needed and deserved. I look forward to reading A.J's story and since it's set in Jafir, I hope we see the new king again too. To learn more on Raleigh and Adam's story Rules of Engagement is a must read.	2002-01-02
US	44950632	RS1LB78EHPNPN	1583141324	707061679	With A Song In My Heart (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Song  too Sweet!!!	This was a 283 page turning all nighter, a five starr finale worthy of the memorable Ransom family. Elle Ransom is in love with millionare Brennan Cunningham III 13yrs her senior.  Brennan is flattered by Elle's &quot;crush&quot; on him so they began dating.  One night after sharing a particularly intimate moment, Elle unknowingly utters the dreaded words Brennan is not prepared to hear, his best offense is a good defense especially for a man that doesn't believe in love or family, RUN.  Europe is not enough distance to quail the stirring emotions within Brennan nor could he escape the constant plague Elle has within his thoughts, realizing his mistake in leaving Brennan returns stateside and to Elle.<br />Elle is hurt by Brennan's disappearence and even more shocked with his sudden return at her twin Nyle's wedding. When Elle found she was pregnant she had quietly resolved to have their child without the love or money of the man that owned her heart.  Now, Brennan wants to be a permanent part of his childs life, so he proposes and even though her heart had hoped for an admission of love, Elle accepts.<br />From the beginning Brennan's mother was against their marriage, his dad seemed ambilvalent, his ex Charis was bent of destroying them before they got started, but his support system of Aunt Pookie and cousins Jordan and Randall had his back. There was enough turmoil, deceit and treachery to keep them from ever making it to the altar let alone sustaining a marriage. Brennan must have been blinded by love since he was clueless to how much he had for Elle.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book from cover to cover, Elle did lead Brennan to understand the love of family just like she told him she would, he may have had the age but she had the wisdom as well as the backup of the entire Ransom clan.	2001-12-12
US	44950632	R2EAHRYV6LLAI0	1583142215	865322848	The Last Dance (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	One true chance at love......	&quot;When the mighty fall they fall mighty hard&quot; and so went the mighty bachelor Emmanuel Jones, police detective and longtime playboy for the workaholic,computer whiz Shari Jarrod.<br />Shari and Emmanuel are set up for a dream date in the name of charity by their sisters.  Shari is not happy with the publicity that follows as well as Emmanuel's womanizing reputation, but her own secret attraction makes her follow through.  Emmanuel, always thought Shari appeared plain, almost purposely so, making the detective in him wonder what could cause a young women to detract from herself to that extent.  Shari was anything but plain for their date, propelling Emmanuel's interest all the more.<br />Emmanuel found his peace too quiet without Shari in his life and she found the kind of understanding, patience and caring she needed in him. I also enjoyed the murder mystery that kept me guessing until the end, the young love developing will be good for other books, married couples that are still in love, a strong family bond, I hope Walter eventually finds that one true love, he deserves it.	2001-12-10
US	44950632	RMMUXTA88PA2W	1585710369	209553688	Forever Love (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love! Infinite and Eternal ....	Gerald Morris was definitely a man with much on the ball.  Tall, dark, handsome, and a successful businessman, what else can you want in a black man except total committment which he offered Leah Ellis in abundance.  Leah was sixteen when she fell in love with Michael Ray Dupree thirteen years her senior and unbeknownst to her a drug trafficker.  Michael Ray lavished Leah with all the riches his illegal wealth could provide before she found out what kind of man he really was.<br />Leah's trust in men after Michael Ray was shallow, especially a man with the kind of wealth &quot;G&quot; exhibited.  Gerald could not get Leah out of his mind after meeting her at a party, he was determined not to let her get away no matter how much she fought against the inevitable.  &quot;G&quot; went to extreme lengths, sometimes appearing controlling, to win Leah's love and trust, but there were dangerous forces working to destroy them that proved the catalyst to forge them together. As Leah and her team prepared for the fundraiser for Project Spuce, Gerald was forced to take great measures not only to keep safe the woman he loved, but protect his own reputation and the trust that he was building with her.<br />I was glad to see after all his asking &quot;G&quot; finally got his answer, but a man willing to fly you to your own secluded paradise should definitely get a YES!! I liked the stories within the story, Malcolm's unexpected return adding more drama for Gerald, the truth behind Sheila's feelings for Leah setting them both free, and the budding romances of Merri and Tony, Ja'Nise and Pete. Great Story....	2001-11-30
US	44950632	R3H0635R3VSQ7H	1585710490	67781815	Eve's Prescription (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	...Medicine Man...	This book was hot!!! Calendar sexy and ultra fine firefighter Noah Russell's great looks and perfect abs belied the true nature of the man. Eve Garrett is a successful attorney, beautiful, widowed, with a teenage son. When Eve and Noah meet at mutual friends Ebony and Yoshi's, it is instant combustion, they are to partner for dominos but it is clear that Noah wants more than a casual partnership.<br /><br />Struggling with intense emotions she never experienced before, not even with her late husband, Eve is torn. Aware of Noah's reputation she still can't help but want a sample of the forbidden fruit. Noah wants Eve to see the person he is, not his Mr December or Dr Feelgood image so after a tender moment shared between them he is looking forward to something more when his hopes are dashed by Eve's demand of secrecy. Noah wants Eve in his life but at what cost? his pride is on the line will he let it suffer just to have her? If she only gave him half the chance he would show her what he could be in her life. Eve almost lets age and unresolved feelings keep her from finding healing in the \\"real medicine\\" Noah's love could provide. Indigo books are a little spicy if thats your taste, hats off to Edwina great first effort.	2001-11-20
US	44950632	R2YPMCH2GW7ZTC	0786006080	190553962	Love So True (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A Love Survived...	Trust is what Janelle Sims lacked, smart, beautiful with great business savvy, her past hurt by the one man she should have been able to depend on made her overly cautious in trusting love. Aaron Deverreau was born into wealth but his money nor his model looks shaped the true essence of the man he was. Janelle and Aaron met by chance when he was in Philly visiting a frat brother, Aaron was on his way back to Arizona but that one night seemed to bond them together although distance separated them.<br />Desperate not to have the kind of man like her father and hopeful to see her dream to own a boutique featuring her own designs, Janelle was willing to settle for the stability Mitch gave her. Aaron's memory was never far from Janelle but the fate of a treacherous deed set against her, set in motion more than just the partnership Aaron offered her on the night they met.<br />Janelle should have seen the sincerity in Aaron as he did everything but write in the sky how he felt about her, when a man that fine provides house, car, business and the pleasure of his company, girlfriend had to be out of her mind to believe he was trying to use her. I guess this is where I started to wane in the story because all that mistrust was a little foolish to me. I did like the plot twist, was happy to see Roxanne finally get what she deserved, the secondary characters were good. I have read four other books by Ms Bussey and I must say this is the first one that has left me wishing for a stronger ending.	2001-11-20
US	44950632	RMFCGI6UQ67BQ	1585710199	496516994	Midnight Magic (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	"The Midnight Hour"	Austin Treadwell might have grown up poor but his spirit and drive was rich. He fell in love with a girl from the other side of the track Patsy Washington, wealthy, caring, and from his point of view on the day they met fearless. Their young love probably would have flourished if it had not been for the interfering of her father Jacob who wanted more for his daughter than \\"poor Austin\\" could offer.<br /><br />Sixteen years later pregnant, Patsy has broken her engagement with Bryan the man her daddy chose for her, due to his flandering with her best friend. In steps Austin it appears out of the blue, he has worked his way through school, is now a CPA who has earned a fellowship to attend Howard University pursuing the law degree he often talked about with Patsy. He asks her to share his dream, they both remember their love, can it be rekindled?<br /><br />Austin and Patsy are devoted to their marriage, but a force neither can control wants to control their lives. Their genuine love and affection becomes the healing power that helps them work through their problems together. Patsy becomes her own woman, wife and lover for the man that has always owned her heart. Austin is strengthened under the determination of his wife to make their life together one to cherish, and making him see the only status in their marriage is based on their love for each other. Through them friends Cody and Lena make a love match that becomes a second chance at happiness. Patsy's mother Ethel proves weakness can be strong and her love for Patsy's father Jacob was the strength that kept him from his own demons or becoming one. This is truly one of my favorite books by Ms Forster.	2001-11-17
US	44950632	RH8XEY4D7EGB0	1583142231	981647462	The Promise (Arabesque)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	&quot;Promise Kept&quot;	Romare Ellington, VP for LaRoux Oil committed himself and his life with a deathbed promise made to his mother to raise his sister Tangi and brother Devon after a tragic accident.  Gillian Dubois is a talented freelance photographer who shares a close bond with her investigative journalist sister Nolah Holland and niece Jordy.<br />Romare and Gillian meet when she is hired to photograph the executives of LaRoux Oil, they are both interested but let the moment pass.  Later, fate brings them together again when Romare picks up Tangi a promising model from her photo shoot to find Gillian is the photographer.  Tangi encourages her brother to ask Gillian out, but their first date proves to be more than memorable.  Gillian finds out the devasting news her sister Nolah has been in a terrible accident.  Romare is there for Gillian and her mother as they face the awful news of Nolah's death, Gillian must now fulfill a promise she never thought she'd have to keep, caring for the niece whose father Nolah never disclosed.<br />Gillian soon suspects that her sisters death may not have been an accident but a result of the story she was investigating, one that appears to have direct ties to the new man in her life, Romare.  Gillian and Romare must risk their new promise of love as they find the truth that will forever affect their lives as well as Jordy's.  With a name like &quot;Romare&quot; plus brains, what woman could resist this man. This was an enjoyable read, another of BET's romance-mystery books.	2001-11-14
US	44950632	R1OXTU7F3EVHD2	1585710474	510572746	After The Vows (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	When True Love Enters In.....	This book proves &quot;Happily Ever After&quot; is deeper than a fairytale.  I have only recently began to read the Indigo line and I am glad I did.  Leslie Esdaile's &quot;Time Enough for Love&quot; gives us a glimpes into the second marriage of Alexandra and Edward as they seek to salvage the promises of love they made to one another before getting caught up in the cares of work, kids, and other outside influences. The added problems of past life's baggage also clouds the brightness of their future.  To make their love survive for them and their children, Edward has to realize his love for the woman he married is stronger than any hurt he has suffered or pride he seeks to keep. Alexandra has to be the woman he fell in love with.<br />T.T. Henderson's &quot;Something So Right&quot; talks about infidelity, career, and trust.  Camille and Devon have been married enough years for the honeymoon to be over, but for true love to still linger.  However, with twins ready for college, true love is not at the top of the agenda.  Desperate at the thought of divorce, Devon hopes a hastily planned anniversary getaway can rekindle the love he and Camille have shared.  Camille feels trapped by the remnants of what once was a marriage of promise, she loves Devon but no longer sees him as the man she lost her heart too. Devon has to sacrafice pride and fight to show Camille his love for her is greater than any trouble that has come between them. Camille, must truly search whether the security of her career can replace the surety from the love of a good man.<br />&quot;Skin Deep&quot; by Jacquelin Thomas definitley proved to be the story with the most meaning for me.  When Edward Anderson married Reva twenty years before, he meant his vows of for better for worse, in sickness or in health, so when the proof of the grave illness that could have taken Reva's life was merciful enough to just leave behind scars to her once perfect body, he still only saw his wife through the eyes of his love.  Reva could not escape the casualty, the illness left her weak, frightened, unsure, and feeling less than a woman.  Reva's demons were real, but she had a family that was more than supportive, even when she wanted to give up, when she tried to push them away.  Edward is definitely a hero, he came through when she was in trouble and let his love rescue her from the dark place she was lost and dying in.  Perfect love seeks no flaws.  This story is wonderful, Bravo to Ms Thomas.is love.  Reva could not escape the casualty, the illness left her weak, frightened, unsure, and feeling less than a woman.  Reva's demons were real, but she had a family that was more than supportive, even when she wanted to give up, when she tried to push them away.  Edward is definitely a hero, he came through when she was in trouble and let his love rescue her from the dark place she was lost and dying in.  Perfect love seeks no flaws.  This story is wonderful, Bravo to Ms Thomas.	2001-11-07
US	44950632	RO9SJHXMI5L1A	158314210X	793129809	Sacred Love (Arabesque)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	To Love and Protect....	I enjoy reading about a husband and wife still in love and wanting to work through whatever difficulties that can arise in a long term relationship.  This is my first book by Shelby Lewis, I found the protectiveness of Sam Walker for his wife Bailey to be truly gallant.  Sam and Bailey thought they would have a nice getaway after she received a letter from her eccentric and rich uncle Fred to visit for the weekend, they were both looking forward to renewing the bond in their marriage.  However, this proves to be a true who-done-it when  Uncle Fred comes up dead and Bailey is a suspect.  Sam and Bailey are amateur crime buffs and have helped solve a couple of cases, but this one has more at stake for them both, their entire future together is on the line.  The cast of offbeat relatives add to the mystery.  BET needs a new line of romance books, this book is short on romance and long on suspense.	2001-11-06
US	44950632	R2IU5U23GYOVYI	158314269X	710767376	A Kwanzaa Keepsake: Imani\Whisper To Me\Harvest The Fruits (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Spirit of Love	Bridget Anderson's &quot;Imani&quot; takes city girl Natalie back to her hometown for the holidays after ending a three year relationship with a controlling boyfriend. While helping at her aunt's shop she meets country boy Roderick Taylor who is weary of so-called city life after the woman he hoped to marry chose it over him. Logistics however, can not hinder the budding love between Natalie and Rod as they find themselves faced with a long distance romance. But, the spirit of sharing Kwanzaa with her country relatives helps Natalie make a decision that will affect her and Rod for a lifetime.<br />Widower, businessman Cedric Hamilton meets teacher Iman Parrish in Carmen Green's &quot;Whisper to Me&quot;, Iman teaches more than just the celebration of Kwanzaa to Cedric and his twin daughters. Surrounded by things accumulated with the prestige of his wealth, Cedric learns what is truly important when he shares in the true spirit of the holiday and his heart to the promise of love, happiness, and the family he has always desired.<br />Margie Walker's &quot;Harvest the Fruits&quot; was my favorite. Free lance photogragher Sterling Washington literally saves journalist Selinae Rogers from uncertain harm. Selinae shares with Sterling the magic of Kwanzaa, and they both share their hearts to the magic of love. Sterling continues to offer his strength and protection as Selinae confronts the demon that has bound her family with 15 years of pain. Together Sterling and Selinae learn to apply the principles of the Kwanzaa spirit for the freedom that promises to heal a family for generations to come.	2001-10-26
US	44950632	RRJTDMRDN78PJ	1583141863	735927142	Love Lessons (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	&quot;Lesson Learned&quot;	I loved this book. Trevor Winston an independent film maker that works mostly with music artist on their videos is a man of deep conviction. Corey Hamilton is a teacher passionate about the welfare of her students. Trevor has been an absent father to his son because of his work, he has left the raising of Miquel for his parents before their death and afterwards to his sister. However, a change is about to come. Trevor has been summoned after a series of notes that have gone unanswered by his sister from Miquel's teacher. Corey is intrigued and angered by Trevor's appearance at school to check on his son, she verbally assaults him about his lack of parenting then sends him away to lick his wounds. Trevor has never felt so dehumanized yet captivated by a woman, he comes up with a plan to make amends for the callousness of his responsiblity to his son.<br />Corey and Trevor are drawn to one another and will not play games about that attraction, Corey is the only woman that has made Trevor want to truly settle down and reevaluate his globetrotting lifestyle. Now, with his family and the project that has him involved with Corey's class to produce their own documentary, Trevor is finally feeling as if he has come home.<br />I loved the sensual primal visions Ms Esdaile used describing Trevor's pursuit for the woman of his heart. The story touched on so many levels, speaking to teenagers feeling pressured by society as well as peers to fit in, single parents trying to set an example for their children while struggling to maintain a shred of life solely their own and on being a good neighbor for those around us. The secondary characters were an integral part of this book, Scott, Miquel, Janelle, Samantha, Trevor's sister Gretchen, even Miss Cleo who sees all and knows just as much. This book is a definite lesson on love at all levels.	2001-10-25
US	44950632	R13TJX451K19YJ	0786003324	903101223	Nightfall (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Nightfall and Daybreak	I read this book a few months ago and found the characters intense.  Cordell Richardson a sucessful attorney was in a bad and lonely marriage while Lena Durant was an aspiring singer caught up in an emotionally abusive relationship. They meet and fall madly and tenderly in love, but that is not enough for the challenges that lay await them with their respective mates, they must have patience and trust.<br />As Cordell helps Lena on her road to a promising singing career, they confront the realities of mental illness and learn about true commitment.  This was one of the sweetest stories I have read. A definite keeper.	2001-10-23
US	44950632	R19RDD3NCNLEHJ	1583142444	335269241	Midnight Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Around Midnight......	Deirdre gives us a look into Dr Garrett and his interior designer wife Elise Taylor's seemingly perfect marriage. After 17 years Garrett and Elise are finding themselves growning apart and neither knows how to confront the other about their fear.<br />Celebrating her 38th birthday Elise finds herself apprehensive about the approaching &quot;BIG 4-0&quot; and reluctant to confide her recently learned health dilema with her husband.  Garrett has always respected the strength, wisdom and love of his wife in  decisions that affect their lives, but long hours spent in his  pediatric practice has him contemplating co-authoring a book to boost his practice and give him more time to spend with his family.  However, Garrett has reason to be hesitant in sharing the news with Elise. The sexy, young woman that is hotly pursuing him for his answer seems attracted to more than his writing skills.<br />Garrett and Elise find an opportunity for the two of them to spend time on the remote Milagro Island may be just what the &quot;DR&quot; ordered to help them rekindle the flame of love. As Garrett and Elise explore the mysteries of the Island, they also explore the hidden things within each other igniting a fire which promises to blaze brighter in their hearts with promises of a lifetime.<br />I enjoyed Deirdre giving us a glimpse of Garrett and Elise's meeting and falling in love, as well as something budding for Jasper. This book is worthy of 5 stars plus.	2001-10-11
US	44950632	R2HNOF69E655FI	1583141650	761427881	Three Times a Lady (Arabesque)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Lady and her Man!!!!	Nobia's second effort definitely kicks the heat up a notch.  Jordan Banks successful writer and father as well as perpetual klutz has let career and love of his children dominate his life.  Mia Gordon successful financial anaylist let her love of work become her play leaving no room in her climb to the top for the love of a good man.<br />Jordan's children are determined to have a mother for themselves as well as a wife for their dad, so when pretty, smart, and caring Mia moves in next door, she fits their bill.  Mia is not immediately impressed with her scruffy, clumsy neighbor and Jordan sees Mia as an uptight workacoholic that could never settle for his kind of life.  However, there are five forces at work to give them both a different view.  Jordan and Mia soon discard initial assumptions as they become more than just neighbors.  Jordan ignites a passion in Mia that work could never duplicate, she finds herself needing to balance more than career as her man and his brood become more important in her neatly organized life.  Jordan's desire for Mia goes beyond his thoughts on his next mystery novel, she satisfies more than just his physical need but also the deep need of his heart.  With outside distractions that have other intentions for the two lovers they must let trust and true love become the ties that bind their lives eternally.<br />I really liked the secondary characters, Clinton and Minnie and most especially the kids Rajahn, Tia, Kimani, twins Amina and Aliya.  I was even glad for Amanda and Terrence.  Niobia is certainly on my list of favorites.	2001-09-29
US	44950632	R1UG504L2MF5IM	1585710539	301829720	Reckless Surrender (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	37	37	N	Y	Reckless for Love	Rina Matthews is a CPA with not only brains but beauty, she along with partner Jason Harper are trying to make their accounting firm a success.  With Jason's charm and Rina's skill they seem to be on their way in their business as well as personal lives, since a trip to the altar for them seems inevitable. Enter handsome, charming, wellbred, well connected district attorney Cleveland Whitney whose political aspirations will probably make the mayors office his first stop on the political trail.  Cleveland is capitvated and impressed with Rina's beauty and candor.<br />Rina has harbored unsettling emotions concerning her relationship with Jason, and the assignment in Savannah as the new accountant for Abigal Whitney seems the perfect time and place to evalute her feelings, at least that was the idea until Cleve.  Rina could not dismiss her obvious attraction to the smoothly confident Cleve, neither could she overlook his blantant attaction for her. &quot;What is a girl to do&quot;?<br />This must be Rochelle's early work, the story though with great potential is not as developed as her Hideaway series or other works.  I was surprised that Matthew Sterling's character was one of Cleve's friends, that would truly make and interesting connection if Rochelle choses to merge the families as her Hideaway saga continues. All in all any Alers romance story is definitely worth the read.	2001-09-27
US	44950632	R1F50SEQI154U0	1583142096	205105452	Nothing But Truth (Arabesque)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	If Truth Be Told	Mad About You was my first book by Ms Gayle, one I thoroughly enjoyed.  Nothing But the Truth held my attention especially finding Jennifer's true reason of having Skipper investigated.  Brant Fuller was an honest subcontractor who held Skipper Arnold in high regard especially in their business of construction where backroom deals were not uncommon, Brant had nothing but respect for Skipper's accomplishments.  Kate Ramsey is an investigative journalist whose search for truth belies her demureness. Kate is smart and refuses to back away from exposing any and all regardless of their status.<br />Brant and Kate are brought together as Kate needs Brant's connections and knowlege to get her the real story of union corruption and death, Brant's distrust of reporters and the lives they damage with what he sees as their need for sensationalism is part of his reason for helping Kate with her story on his friend and mentor, the other is the desire he feels for her.  Kate is attracted to Brant more than she wants to reveal, but her story is important and she wont let her emotions distract her from her story no matter how &quot;fyne&quot; the distraction.<br />Brant and Kate discover they are willing to share more than  just their integrity as they learn to trust one another and get closer to the truth about Skipper, they are also willing to share their hearts.	2001-09-26
US	44950632	R29MVWESLS5L6D	0312978839	908403901	A Family Reunion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Family Unified	What accolades can one bestow on a story so truly heartwarming and body shocking? This is Brenda Jackson at her finest. I was spellbound from beginning to end as the characters lives began to unfold drawing on each ones dependence, loyality, honor, and committment of their family serving to catalyst that true bond connecting and sustaining any family, \\"LOVE\\".<br /><br />I felt Taye's uncertainty and Michael's detemination as they surrendered to and accepted a love that went beyond family ties, binding their hearts with a tender lasting love. I marvaled at the unselfishness that allowed Rae'jean to set free hearts bound by admiration and respect to experience the joy and passion of a once in a lifetime chance at love. I understood Alexia's struggle and her need to protect her heart at all cost as she faced the fear of losing her heart for the gift of that one true and faithful love. I was overjoyed when Brandy realized the power of blood ties. Poppa Ethan, Victor Sr, and Jr, Cuzzin Sophie, Joe and Otha Mae, Granpa Henry even Poppa Ethan's beloved Idella made this more than a book by bringing back sweet memories of \\"Family\\".	2001-09-25
US	44950632	R3RNKL8HQNWW0C	1583141561	911971082	Too Hot Too Handle (Arabesque)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	...but not to hot to tame....	This last installment gives us a final look into the lives of the Eastman-Cates family. &quot;To thine ownself be true&quot; was what  Dr Jared Cates should have remembered. Jared lived in the shadow of what was acceptable to his family while denying what was neccesary to fulfill his own lifes desires affecting his abiility to truly commit his life or his love.  Jenny Eastman lived in the shadow of a terrible tragedy in which she did not believe forgiveness existed. Jared and Jenny's lives were bound by bars they each had erected but found their keys to freedom in the heart of the other.<br />SCORNED proved more than an experience in lifes lessons for each of the sistas involved. The plan they had to bring Jared to his knees brought them all more than they could ever imagine. It was good to visit Tiffany and Jason and see the strength of their love found none to late become a pillar of acceptance in the changes and growth within their family.<br />The lives and loves of this family and those they touched came full circle for a pleasant and hopeful future.	2001-09-24
US	44950632	R28D2SHW101U5R	1583141456	385588690	Surrender (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Sweet! Sweet!! Surrender	This book was worth the wait, not only do we see Ashton Sinclair carry out his plan of attack against the elusive Netherland Brooms, but we are introduced to three more ultra fine Madaris men in twins Blade and Slade along with cousin Luke. Ashton was determined to realize his &quot;vision&quot; for he and Netherland, he planned to not only have her as his wife but the mother of his sons, triplets no less, regardless of how impossible the obstacles proved.<br />Netherland tried to resist the irresistable man that refused to let her shut him out of her life with her refusal to date him. But, Netherland soon realized that Ashton was more than a uniform, he was to be her destiny.<br />Throughout the book we get to glimpse into the lives of Trevor and Corinthians as they prepare for baby Grant, Alex and Christy confronting the promise that will surely prove another blockbuster sequel, we meet Rome and Jada as they surrender to the possiblity of happiness, we see Brenda weave the lives of our favorite characters together as they struggle against a crisis that could mean life or death.  This is Brenda at her 5 star best.... I am glad to add this to my Madaris collection.	2001-08-02
US	44950632	R35POIF0HFY9R	1583141553	527715550	A Perfect Pair (Arabesque)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Perfect Accident	Jacie Metcalf and Charles Thibeaudaux literally met by accident. Jacie laid off from the factory where she was supervisor is on her way to a job interview, in borrowed clothes and a car that has seen better days, she needs this job to keep her from falling deeper in debt. Charles Tibeaudaux is next in line to inherit the family business, he has devoted long hours and early mornings to help his G-Paw continue his legacy. What Chas has not devoted much time to is a love beyond a thriving business.<br />Feeling responsible for the spur of moment decision that has caused Jacie to lose out on another job, Chas makes her an offer, but after talking with her brother Uri, Jacie has a counter offer for Chas.  GIVE ME A JOB!  G-Paw sees the change in Chas the moment Jacie comes into his life and the vow Chas made after the painful breakup from the women he once hoped to marry is about to be tested.  Jacie's new job is demanding,  paired to work close with Chas the chemistry they try to ignore, leads to whispers and innuendos about their true relationship. As gossip becomes gospel, Chas' desire for Jacie goes beyond boss and trainee, but he must let go of his past if they are to share a perfect future.<br />Chas's cousin Remy adds spice, and G-Paw, Chas's namesake is definitely a character, the book was a little slow at times but still pretty good.	2001-07-21
US	44950632	RTBW6WOG6WVDM	0525946039	149958128	Between Lovers	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Between Good Books	Sister, Sister was the first AA fiction novel I read after years of nonfiction and religious reading, so EJD gets props from me. However, this is not his best work.  Between Lovers seemed to be between common sense, although Nicole kept saying she was torn between &quot;did he have a name&quot;? and Ayanna, it seems she was the only one eating the cake on her plate and getting the pie in the sky. The lesbian thing was not the real issue, but finding two pyschocrazies that are so &quot;in love&quot; they settle for torture and frustration in the disguise of a relationship mesmerizes me. Unyeilding Christian views always adds reason for the ins and outs of sexual perference, but loving Jesus usually causes misunderstanding of the Christian view.  The ending was a little weak, I would have liked to see the love light between what's his name and Tseday developed more, it would have been interesting to see the healing that got him to the end. Good to see Toyomi stopped chasing cars thru the streets.<br />I still luv EJD, worst rating I gave any of his books, but I will keep buying.	2001-07-21
US	44950632	RSQTK2L2C9U8Y	1583141928	663990874	Scarlet Woman (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	the perfect love	Blake Hunter, Atty at Law is executor of his friend Prescott Rodgers estate. When the older, reclusive and wealthy Prescott married young Melinda Jones the small town of Ellicott City let gossip and speculation determine her motives. Now widowed, Melinda Rodgers is still the focus of gossip, especially with the stipulations Prescott left in his will.<br />Although Melinda was not in love with Prescott she cared for him and knew he cared for her, so she was lost as to his motives of having her marry within a year of his death and set up a charitable foundation before she could claim his inheritance or risk losing it. Melinda has no plans to yeild to the pressure of marrying for anything but love this time around. Melinda and Blake kept check of their deep emotions for one another and because of their respect for Prescott they also kept those emotions hidden from each other. Now having to work so closely together setting up the board for the foundation their stirring emotions refused to be held back any longer.<br />Blake must let go of his suspicions of Melinda as they find themselves faced with more than their irrepressable desire for one another. Emotional baggage, reputations assualted and safety jepordized, they must come to terms with their hearts and learn to trust completely in their love.<br />I enjoyed the fullness of the secondary characters Rev and Mrs Jones, Mr and Mrs Hunter, Rachel and John....	2001-07-05
US	44950632	R2FWULJWMW89CH	158314174X	428346669	A Touch Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More than a Learning Experience.......	Move over Rochelle, Brenda, and Deirdre because Kim Louise makes her characters sizzle to a slow burn. If you like Destiny's Song then A Touch Away will not leave you disappointed. Sonji Stephens had a wake up call after a relationship gone way wrong brought her full circle into pursuing her dream of a college degree. She was not prepared for the soOO-soOO fine professor that could not only stop your breath with his sex appeal but make you hold your breath waiting for your grade with his tough as nails style. Grayson Gilmore Ph.D bourgeois attitude did not give truth to the man underneath, a man hidden by years of unbearable pain, guilt, and unforgiveness.<br />Meeting Andi and Sebastian was a major find for Sonji, the young couple helped her get readjusted to college life and offered her friendship. With Andi's insistence Sonji was introduced to a website that not only offered free e-mail but proved to be a new beginning for both her and Grayson.<br />When Sonji first walked into Gray's class late, neither could predict the importance they would play in one anothers lives, although they both felt an undeniable attraction. Sonji's presence in Gray's life ignited the spark for his return from the nightmares and demons that possessed his dreams and soul. Gray's presence in Sonji's life forced her to face her fear of failure, together they found closure and lasting love.<br />Grandmother Zinga's memory might prove other interesting disclosures for Gray and his brother Kyle. Possibly allowing another visit with the Gilmore family, I especially like Kyle's wife Jerika, their story would be interesting. Andi and Sebastian are definitely characters that deserve their own story. Bryon deserves someone special too. Great book, I will add this to my list of re-reads.	2001-07-02
US	44950632	R1LMXQ2OEMKH45	1583141308	963702103	Through the Fire (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	..and coming out pure gold...	Quinn Parker and Rae Lindsay are two souls destined to share forever. Quinn could barely live for today let alone tomorrow after the devasting loss first of his twin sister,then his wife. A chance meeting between Quinn and Rae leaves him unprepared for her deep insight into his vain existence, he is stunned by her ability to read into the depth of his pain. But, the confidence in Rae's words don't reveal the real reason she is able to see into the emptiness reflected in his eyes, she too has experienced a terrible tragedy that mirrors the same haunting loss.<br />Quinn feels a kindred spirit with Rae and although he struggles against the rebirth of emotions that flood him, as they progess into a relationship he knows he can no longer be content to hide in his cocoon of loneliness. Rae too,is reluctant to fully give into her awakening emotions, she recognizes Quinn's insecurties but fears she will end up losing in love again.<br />I was in tune as Quinn began to emerge from that dark place he made for himself, learning to live again, accepting the healing power and confident love Rae has opened to him. With the quiet support of family and friends both Rae and Quinn overcome the fires that threatened to consume them and rise like the Phoenix to a renewed life together. This book was awesome.	2001-06-21
US	44950632	R1OELO70TIPA45	1583459707	463570808	My Love's Keeper	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	Love's Keeper	Zachary Regan a successful architect and widower with three young children has locked away his heart because of a secret fear to love again. Dr Nicole Moore, associate director of a family help agency is the sister of his frat brother Adam, who unknowingly becomes the key that threatens to unlock his deep rooted fear of love and committment while igniting the passion Zachary's heart can no longer keep hidden.<br />Zachary is drawn to Nicole's beauty, strength and intelligence from the very start, he tries to fight the course that nature is playing in their lives but finds himself caught in emotions that will not be controlled.  Nicole knows Zachary is struggling with ghosts from his past that keep an invisible wedge between them but she will not let him set the pace for their relationhip especially if it means she will be hurt. Nicole and Zachary learn that healing is the true key and understanding, patience and trust unlocks even the most wounded heart. Theirs is a tender love story of passion and family.	2001-06-19
US	44950632	R26S8VO53CI0BF	0312978944	116899600	Going to the Chapel	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Love and Marriage	&quot;Stand-in-Bride&quot; features Katherine Langdon a much sought after wedding planner and Gerald Barnett president of Barnett S&amp;L. When Gerald's pampered daughter Lisa seeks his help in securing Katherine to plan her wedding, neither Katherine nor Gerald are prepared for the emotions that begin to build between them. Gerald was instrumental in Katherine's achievements but she must be sure what she feels for him is not simply gratitude and he must ensure he is not comparing her to a woman from his past. When Lisa makes a sudden last minute change in her nuptials, Gerald and Katherine are forced into a different plan of action.<br />&quot;Learning to Love&quot; brings Dr's Sharon Braxton and Adejonko &quot;Jon&quot; Kuti together as they bridge the cultural gap to love. Jon is the eldest son of a Nigerian chefton who will one day hold his fathers position, he knows his duties and respects the ways of his homeland.  Sharon is a UN Asst Sec Gen in charge of a  project to aide Nigeria.  Sharon and Jon soon find the project is the spark that ignites the flame of romance. Overcoming the cultural differences, loyalty to a people and way of life add turbulance to that relationship. In the end Sharon and Jon allow their hearts to make their most important decision.<br />&quot;Distant Lover&quot; takes us to the Island of Barbados when Nina Benson is sent by the Burns Coorporation to negotiate a deal to purchase land in lovely St. Michaels with one of its heirs, Vincent St. Michael.  Nina is captivated with not only the island but also the man who she needs to seal the deal.  Vincent has locked away his heart after a relationhip that should have ended in marriage ended in his being hurt, but Nina's presence sparks a desire in him to negotiate a different deal with her, one that is sure to benefit them both for generations to come.<br />&quot;Southern Comfort&quot; pits Charlotte Duval and Vincent Maxwell as the Best Man and Maid of Honor struggling to maintain at least a civil relationship thru his cousins wedding.  Vincent was not impressed with Charlotte at first meeting, thinking her manor too brazen and her opinions too modern.  Charlotte nine times a bridesmaid and yet to be a bride hopes one day for that special someone who will see past her outside beauty to the woman she is inside. Charlotte's genuine charm and sincerity challenges Vincent's concepts of love and marriage, soon Vincent finds the outside does not always prepare us for the total package. Vincent and Charlotte discover that both traditional and modern values are an asset as long as love and respect are and ingredient.t a civil relationship thru his cousins wedding.  Vincent was not impressed with Charlotte at first meeting, thinking her manor too brazen and her opinions too modern.  Charlotte nine times a bridesmaid and yet to be a bride hopes one day for that special someone who will see past her outside beauty to the woman she is inside. Charlotte's genuine charm and sincerity challenges Vincent's concepts of love and marriage, soon Vincent finds the outside does not always prepare us for the total package. Vincent and Charlotte discover that both traditional and modern values are an asset as long as love and respect are and ingredient.	2001-06-17
US	44950632	R2VT69VMJWYMYL	1583142118	997147598	Love at Last (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;LOVE&quot;	Casey James is a social worker that truly enjoys her job and values the people she helps. Still struggling with the pain caused from a tramatic childhood experience she finds solice in the demanding hours her work provides.  Alfred Willingham a successful realitor and father of a daughter he is raising has focused his efforts on providing Christie with the best but his frequent business trips don't provide her with what she needs most, his time.  A few coincidental meetings and a life altering event seem to have Casey and Alfred on a collision course with fate.<br />Casey and Alfred's relationship has many ups and downs, near misses and threat to life before love conquers all. The secondary characters provide much to the storyline especially Casey's beautician friend &quot;Punkin&quot;.  I was a little undecided as to how I would rate this story after I read it but there was enough intrigue though little romantic heat to make it a good read.  It would be good to see some of the secondary characters developed in future books, they seem to have a story of their own.	2001-06-03
US	44950632	R1J22HXX22KP1D	1583141316	621227054	Undeniably Yours (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	At Long Last!	Matthew St.Charles was &quot;Undeniably&quot; Kaitlin Ramsom's soulmate.  Matt still could not accept Kaitlin's death even after two years and he struggled with his decision to move on with his life, while her family still struggled to accept her tragic death. Kaitlin herself struggled in Mexico to stay alive never realizing the heartache of the people she loved nor that they were unaware she was alive.<br />Thank God for visions, undying faith and a life threatening event to bring Kaitlin back into the arms of the people who loved her.  Matt's prayers were answered and his expertise needed to bring back the woman who would forever own his heart. However, before Matt and Kaitlin could realize a life together there are hurdles caused by their separation to overcome. Issues surrounding Kaitlins life in Mexico create distrust and fear while opening old wounds, as well as the dark cloud of danger that still prevailed. Matt and Kaitlin must let the love that has bridged time heal and bring them strength. I enjoyed visiting the Ransom family again and was happy for Preacher and Sabrina. I look forward to more on A.C and Elle as their lives come into fruition.	2001-05-30
US	44950632	R1KEB1Q3XW2T7F	0786004630	78008235	Vows (Arabesque)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	VOWS-unbroken	Love can tame the heart of even the most savage beast or in this case melt the heart of Joshua Kirkland. Vanessa Blanchard did not realize when she met the ooOH-SOoo sexy and mysterious Joshua that she was in for the adventure of a lifetime, literally. Vanessa was just another assignment or so Joshua thought until her dark and seductive charm began to awaken a desire in him to find the truth and protect her for both their future.<br />Rochelle takes us into the world of military intelligence where &quot;mission is first&quot;.  Joshua risks career and his heart when he realizes his love for Vanessa and the strength of her love helps guide him into the forgiveness and reconcilation that will unite and reunite the lasting love of family.  Joshua is the epitome of strong but silent, Vows is definitely my favorite of the hideaway saga. More than a good read...	2001-05-29
US	44950632	R3QFTSVFFSQ91K	0451194063	502639487	Milk in My Coffee	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Get A Grip	I am a real fan of EJD and have read all of his books to date. Browsing through some of the comments on MIMC I cant help but feel some reviewers have taken the book way too personal. I and many of my friends that read MIMC thought it to have real and complex issues with definte plot twists and an ending that unless you read the back of the book first would never have been expected.<br />Jordan Greene and Kimberly Chavers each had emotional scars that were open when they came together in a chance meeting on a cold New York afternoon. Regardless of the &quot;rights and wrongs&quot; that are too often dictated by society's sorted standards, Jordan and Kimberly pursued their relationship and the opportunity to share a life and love that could transcend the barrier of &quot;color&quot; offering them both peace and healing.	2001-05-28
US	44950632	R1LK2G3T0W1MIE	1583141693	176828191	Once And Again (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Once Upon A Love	This is a wonderful story of enduring first love that would not be forgotten. Nathan Ward is a wealthy and renownd R&B artist. Daphane Thorne is co-owner of a Womens Help Center. They were childhood sweethearts whose connection of the heart was special, but even such a love could not survive misunderstandings and lack of communication.<br /><br />Nathan spots Daphane at what should be a happy occasion for him, his wedding to his baby's mother, Monica. However, Monica has other plans and a wedding is not a part of the agenda.  Nathan needs a place to regroup and prepare for what he believes may be a custody battle over Emily and seeing Daphane brings back a flood of memories, desires and a plan.  Nathan approaches Daphane to let him live in the vacant townhouse that happens to be downstairs from her, although reluctant at first lack of finances make her accept his offer.<br /><br />Nathan's plan to win Daphane needs to be packaged because he is too smooth. Daphane tries to play the nonchalant role but her resistance against his genuine affection for her not to mention the past they've shared breaks down her ability to stay out of his arms.  Nathan and Daphane may have been sidetracked but they get back on the right track to their happy ever after.	2001-05-25
US	44950632	R23UK5F5FAOGHQ	1583142150	908312084	Know By Heart (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Love and Mystery ..........	Jesse Grant a diversity reporter for the Silicon Valley weekly fled the Windy City after her stalker ex-boyfriend has jailed.  Cole Nicholson a talented African American top software executive with Netstyles is slated to become its next CEO.<br />Jesse and Cole's paths have silently crossed before as well as interested glances which have them longing with thoughts of the other, but a death brings the faces in their dreams into the reality of their lives. Giving a ride home to a classmate puts Jesse in the middle of what appears to be a suicide and has her reporters instinct searching for the truth behind it. Protecting his project that has consumed his very existence, alienating him from love and friends has Cole looking for the truth behind stolen files and the threat against all he's worked for.<br />As Jesse and Cole work together uncovering scandal, deceit, and treachery that could destroy more than just their lives, they also find in each other a balance and strength to destroy old fears, reach new goals, and ignite the love of a lifetime.	2001-05-17
US	44950632	R3LKSE34NNK5PU	1583141375	203974347	All I've Ever Wanted (Arabesque)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	&quot;What They Deserved&quot;	Kennedy St. James is a single, hard working mother, attending college classes at night.  Deciding to take a short cut home late one night puts Kennedy in the wrong place just in time to witness the murder of a prominent District Attorney.  To make matters worse she recognizes one of the gunman.  Dectective Maxwell Collier has just returned from the vacation from hell that had him and his unfaithful ex-wife in court fighting over visitation of his young son.  Now, the case from hell has been dropped in the lap of he and Dossman his partner, and has them scrambling to find evidence in the DA's murder.<br />Although Kennedy's deceased father was a respected Police Lieutenant, she is too afraid of risking her son Tommy's life by telling police what she saw.  She had barely escaped with her life after the not so quiet get-away she tried making was heard.  Kennedy is not about to put Tommy in danger over a dead man.  Max and Dossman find evidence of a possible witness that leads them directly to Kennedy's door.<br />Max is certain Kennedy is their witness even as she continues to deny it.  He's also certain the attraction that sparked the moment the beautiful waitress literally ran into his hard body at the restaurant she works earlier that day, has him needing to do more to protect her and Tommy.  Kennedy is not immune to the feelings that ignited after being caught by the strong arms and staring into the handsome face of the lead detective in the case.  As the game of survival with the gunman takes on a more dangerous twist, Kennedy finds herself depending on Max for more than just her and Tommy's protection.<br />Initially when I read this book I had a different view of Max and Kennedy's plight.  I'm glad I discovered what I almost missed after my re-read.  Kennedy was a woman who endured much tragedy in her young life. Max suffered the betrayal of those he held close.  It was truly in one another they found &quot;All They Ever Wanted&quot;.	2001-05-15
US	44950632	RDMEYTNPBGA1O	158314224X	441643013	Rules Of Engagement (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	00-Undercover-Love	This book was \\"DA BOMB\\"!! Dr Raleigh Foster an academic prodigy recruited by the ISA after grad school at age 20 lived her first 11 years moving from town to town with her small time hustler father. With no formal schooling she was educated by her father on their travels. After he is killed protecting her, she is placed in foster care where her genius is nurtured and so is her guilt over her fathers death. Adam Grayson is the son of billionare parents, he is a computer and business genius who has a flair for making money and a need for adventure. Adam and his best friend Phillip Turman are recruited by ISA after their graduation from Harvard.<br /><br />With code names of Merlin and Chimera, Adam and Raleigh first meet on an assignment gone bad in Jafir, one that cost career, friendship and the promise of love. Three years later ISA has sent Raleigh to secure Adam's help on a mission that will prove to test the bonds of trust, truth, and love. The chemistry between Adam and Raleigh sizzle from the heat as each struggle not to allow the other dominance over the mission or their hearts. This book spins the treacherous game of espionage with the mystery of romance to reveal a story old as time. Love does cover a multitude of faults...Ms Montgomery is exellent as she brings us into this dark world to reveal the light of love. I hope she gives us more on Phillip's story.	2001-05-07
US	44950632	R2CSKAH7J9K8MP	1583141286	122822395	Everything To Gain (Arabesque)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	....and nothing to lose...	Caroline Duval and Derek Roberts were college sweethearts who let rumor and innuendo that neither confirmed with the other, cause their breakup six years ago.<br /><br />Derek is in Connecticut on business when he's shocked to see Caroline at the hotel restaurant where he's staying, she's there to end a relationship. Caroline calls a taxi only to find she has a long wait, Derek speaks out to offer her a ride home, it was her turn to be in shock. On the ride to Caroline's they are each lost in thought about the breakup, she believes he was engaged when they dated, he believes she aborted their child. After six years they still suffer bittersweet memories of their lost love.<br /><br />After her and Derek's chance meeting, Caroline visits a college friend in Atlanta for the summer, she volunteers to teach a course for a summer program filling in for another teacher. She quickly learns Derek is also a teacher at the program and the teacher she is subbing for is Derek's sister-in-law, Zoe. At first Derek and Caroline try avoiding one another but an incident at a party hosted by Ian and Zoe finally forces them to confront the real reason behind their breakup, what they discover is lies and deceit fueled by the jealous motives of a spurned lover perpetrated their breakup. Deciding the deep rooted emotions they still harbored for one another was worth exploring, they set out to become reacquainted in hopes of regaining the love and passion they lost when they lost each other. There is kidnapping for revenge to add intrigue, a cute, smart little girl to add laughter, and a strong family bond to share the love. Great story.	2001-05-01
US	44950632	R367TC8SSPNOSA	158314157X	954021845	His 1-800 Wife	Books	4	3	3	N	N	1-800-Real Love	&quot;Oh what a tangled web we weave when first we practice to deceive&quot;, is what Catherine Carson should have remembered when she placed her 1-800 ad and Jarrod Greene should have considered before he became her willing partner in the ruse.<br />Jarrod's childhood pranks and Catherine's constant irritation with him for them masked underlying feelings from their youth.  Catherine feeling pressure from her mother and sister to get married has the perfect plan, 1-800 &quot;temporary marriage&quot;. Jarrod now back after working the last 5 years in England recognizes Catherine as the voice behind the 800 number.<br />After a party at Catherine's sister's, Jarrod reveals he knows about her scheme it is there she expands her deception to include him, it doesn't take either of them long to realize they have deceived themselves.  Masquerading in their role as friends turned lovers they soon discover the depth of those dormat emotions as they began to rise to the surface. As they both struggle with the terms of their arrangement, Jarrod is no longer able to deny his love for Catherine but she is disillusioned and afraid after her failed engagement and has no desire for a &quot;real marriage&quot;.  Jarrod's attempts to win her forces them both into facing the truth about their marriage, their love and each other. I enjoyed this book, I hope to see Elizabeth and Robert as they finally accept the truth of their &quot;friendship&quot;.	2001-04-27
US	44950632	R2UJMPWXDTNE48	1583141448	732421839	True Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The First is Last	This book was my intro into the world as created by Ms Jackson. I was captivated enough with Nicholas Chenault who we met in One Special Moment and Shayla Kirkland to get the series, I am still looking for Kyle and Kimara's story. It's fitting since I've posted my comments on the other books, I honor this one last.<br />Shayla Kirkland is on a mission of revenge for a wrong committed against her deceased mother by Chenault Electronics now headed by Nicholas Chenault, along with Thomas Jordache the man she believes to be her father. Shayla's masterplan of getting on the inside to destroy the company is circumvented after immediately being hired by Chenault Electronics she is headed for Japan with Nicholas to help secure the agreement around a major project. Shayla finds herself drawn to the sexy and driven Nicholas, but when negotiations present the perfect opportunity to carry out her plan, her heart wont let her sabotage the project. Nick's heart too is experiencing conflict, he let his guard down with Shayla and is afraid of what he feels for her.<br />As Nick and Shayla decide to explore their relationship, someone else is trying to sabatoge the project and although bad blood points to Thomas Jordache, Nicholas and Shayla as well as Paul, the man who is like a second father to Nick and Shayla's Aunt Callie must some face truths.  They must open their hearts to trust and forgive, as they are confronted with deep rooted secrets that have held a family hostage to the past.<br />I liked the story woven in between Nick and Shayla's story about Trent Jordache Nick's best friend, only son of Thomas and nephew of Paul with Brenna St James, Corinthians best friend. Brenna and Trent sail the high seas toward their &quot;true love&quot;.	2001-04-25
US	44950632	R3AKZ7WIRRBYSM	1583141081	199459619	Mad About You (Arabesque)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Love Conquers All	Since making this site a favorite, I'm glad I'm able to add my comments about books I enjoyed reading. I suppose if you've never experienced something it's hard to uderstand, but insecurity is an emotion I believe has touched many of us at times for different reasons. Insecurity is the silent force that both the hero and heroine must overcome in Mad About You.<br /><br />Regina \\"Reggie\\" Primm is an intelligent woman who heads her own PR firm. She has landed one of her biggest clients in former football great turned actor and voted the \\"Sexist Black Man\\" in America, Langston \\"MO\\" Downs.<br /><br />Reggie is hired to promote MO's upcoming movie and with his tendency to garner bad press Reggie must reverse his often negative press. MO is more than impressed when he meets Reggie for reasons that go beyond her professional abilities.  However, when he pursues her with male interest he encounters a defense greater than any he experienced on the football field.<br /><br />Reggie is afraid to think MO Downs has a personal interest in her. She won't let herself believe this handsome, much sought after hunk could possibly desire her less than perfect physique and her greater than size 5 attributes. Reggie is a \\"thick sista\\" who enjoys life, family and a good meal.  MO takes Reggie's reluctance to share more than work with him as rejection for his being less than \\"smart\\" as men she normally date. They both have issues of insecurity they must recognize as they open up to each other.<br /><br />MO showers Reggie with his love, he proudly and openly glories in letting the world see how he measures the beauty of the woman who owns his heart. Reggie supports MO's strengths, encourages him in his weakness, and makes him see a degree does not define his intelligence. I enjoyed this story, MO wouldn't let public perception dictate his happiness, and Reggie found those who care will always see you for who you are.	2001-04-23
US	44950632	RJ51DGJ4AWHYG	1583141731	600127665	Destiny's Song (Arabesque)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	&quot;All for Destiny&quot;	I definitely felt the artist tempo of this book, not only was Xavier Allgood a phenominal talent musically but also a man. Destiny Chandler went through a soul shattering experience with Rico Freeman ending with his incarceration for his many violations of protection she had against him. Destiny needed a get away and she reached out to an old flame Davis seeking to find her way back to her old self, who she finds is Xavier the man of every womans fantasy to include hers.<br />Destiny's rebirth begins to emerge when she finds that Davis is working on a project with Xavier, soon her professional help as a photographer is solicited by Xavier for ideas on his upcoming CD.  The possibility of anything but friendship between she and Davis becomes evident to Destiny as her feelings become more than professional toward Xavier, Xavier is aware of his own building emotions for Destiny but does not want to compromise his relationship with Davis.<br />With Xavier's careful and tender actions toward Destiny he is able to reach into that place of her inner hurt that came out of her relationship with Rico and their love for each other begins to bloom.  However, Rico is still tormented and will stop at nothing to have his &quot;Destiny&quot;, but it is Xavier's love and protection of his &quot;Destiny&quot;  that proves to be her saving grace.<br />I was glad to see Davis and Jacq together, Davis is a good brother that had to slow down to find more than work to satisfy him. I had to get into the books flow but all and all this was a great first effort.	2001-04-22
US	44950632	ROAG1PLV2ABHO	0786005467	61986047	One Special Moment (Arabesque)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	AWESOME!!	Sterling Hamiliton may have been an ultra fine, super hunk actor but he carried a deep scar left by his mother who walked out on him and his dad when he was still a young child. Sterling wants a child and has a plan that does not include the childs mother. Colby Wingate was raised by her brother after the death of their parents, he is CEO of a young cosmetic company with a new line of mens products that Colby hopes Sterling will endorse.<br /><br />Sterling makes Colby an offer when he assumes she is there for his proposal of having his baby, although Colby is opposed to his offer she learns of a threat against her brothers company that forces her to accept.  The public are not the only ones suprised when Sterling and Colby announce their engagement so is Colby's family and friends.  Sterling and Colby play out their relationship for all to see but Colby's uniqueness is beginning to tear away some of Sterling resolve.  As Colby accepts her love for Sterling and learns of his secret pain, she vows to remain with him and be a permanent part of their childs life. Sterling finds a gentle peace in Colby that calms his scattered emotions.  Colby's love guides Sterling into forgiveness, trust, and love.  We meet Sterling's mother and brother making way for a continuing saga.  I truly loved this story.	2001-04-21
US	44950632	R2475AVIJH2WIE	1583140972	365665776	Whispered Promises	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Timeless love	The second installment from Brenda Jackson introduces us to tall, dark, and sensual Dex Madaris and his exwife Caitlin.  Caitlin's father could not except her marriage to Dex 11 years her senior after their whirlwind courtship, he forced her to chose between her love of her husband or the love of her father.<br /><br />Dex was hurt when Caitlin did not join him in Australia as they had planned he was devastated when he received divorce papers and Caitlin's wedding ring through the mail. He kept his love for her buried as he struggled to forget her. Four years passed, Dex and Caitlin are summoned to her fathers deathbed as he reveals they were never divorced and Dex learns about the daughter he never knew he had.<br /><br />Dex vows to make a home with his family, Caitlin desires to recapture the love she and Dex once shared and that she still feels for him.  Dex is not willing to uncover his buried love for Caitlin his Madaris pride has suffered and he does not want a repeat performance. However, danger lies ahead as someone is trying to kill Caitlin and Dex must protect her and find the reason.  In that true Madaris style, Dex's committment for family awakens the love for his wife that refuses to remain asleep.<br /><br />We are also introduced to Trevor and Corinthians as their love story unfolds.	2001-04-21
US	44950632	R1XUK4FMQWRK5B	1583140735	387524936	Secret Love (Arabesque)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Those Madaris Men!!!!	I only recently became an avid reader of African American romance novels, my first Brenda Jackson book was True Love which got me to reading other books she had written. What can you say about those Madaris men and their friends?  When Jake's first marriage ended it left him bitter and leary of city women, he never believed a woman could love him or his rancher way of life especially a beautiful world renowned African American actress like Diamond Swain. Diamond needed a retreat where she could escape the pressures of Hollywood, her friend Sterling Hamilton knew just the place, his friend Jake Madaris' ranch where he himself had found solitude. Jake was not thrilled with Diamond invading his peaceful existence, but the woman Diamond proved to be was far different from the glamor and glitz of her celebrity status.  Diamond found Jake's manner and strength appealing but she was afraid if she shared his life it would jepordize his quiet lifestyle. Jake and Diamond could not help their love for one another but Diamond's need to protect their private life forced Jake to accept keeping their love and marriage a secret.<br /><br />After Diamond's safety is threatened by an overzealous fan, she realizes she has kept Jake a prisoner of her love forcing him to change his life because of her fear. They decide to first disclose their marriage to Jake's family then announce it to the public, however, all is not well there is now a threat against Jake by a demented and confused man.<br /><br />Jake and Diamond overcome the obstacles and dangers of sometimes having their lives played out in public view, Diamond has \\"a Madaris\\" who will protect, cherish and love her and Jake has \\"his Diamond\\".	2001-04-20
US	44950632	R2INGFQKYG72XS	1583140247	208654906	Fire And Desire (Arabesque)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Desire Fulfilled!!!	After almost two years of pretending they could not stand being near one another, Trevor and Corinthians gave up the fight and gave into the fire.  Brenda is one bad girl! Trevor was determined to have more than dreams of Corinthians keep him up at night. Who would think the hot jungle of South America would provide him the opportunity he needed to get the woman of his dreams. Corinthians was not aware dreams of her was keeping someone else up at night but unlike the patience Trevor displayed, this man was willing to risk war with the U.S. to satisfy his need.<br />Senator Joshua Avery needs some more black in his life that boy has lost his focus, his sisters life is in danger and he is still thinking about &quot;his career&quot;, but I do like Ashton Sinclair and Sir Drake how they came to aide Trevor when it looked like fate had taken away the love he and Corinthians waited so long to share.  I was also glad that Mr and Mrs Grant stopped letting time steal the remaining years of their love and marriage and reunited.  As usual those Madaris men are always their to provide their support.	2001-04-20
US	44950632	RDEIIDBMRU501	1583141227	575835247	Shattered Illusions (Arabesque)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Murder, Mystery, Romance,Intrigue	This has the ingredients of a made for TV movie.  I felt this book was light on the Romance but I enjoyed it as the plot unfold to reveal greed as the primary culprit.<br />Delcia Adams is a widow and single mother of a baby she bore for a man out of wedlock who is murdered.  Carter Matthews is a Navy SEAL who as the foster brother of the murdered man sets out to find the killer.  Delcia is part owner of the camp ground where Carter begins his search into his brother death, Carter reveals to Delcia his reason for being at the camp but because his brother David's relationship with Delcia has caused a rift between she and her father Carter's presence is less than welcomed. Carter finds himself assisting Delcia at the campgrounds and they both began feeling an attraction toward one another but are cautious because of what Delcia and David shared.<br />As Carter continues to investigate his brothers murder Delcia helps him and they give over to the emotions that are building between them.  The twist and turns that take them into finding what really happened to David also leads them on a journey of restoration and love that will unite a family for a lifetime. This books wraps a tender love story with major intrigue if heat and passion are what you are expecting this book may not be for you, but if you like a good mystery this one is a thriller.	2001-04-20
US	44950632	RT5Y3Z2C197N0	078600455X	291169044	Eternally Yours (Arabesque)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Only A Madaris Man Can	Clayton, Clayton, Clayton.. he is definitely my favorite Madaris but this time the boy has met his match in Syneda Walters. Syneda had that whip appeal that made the boy throw away his case of condoms. But, being a Madaris, Clayton affected Syneda in a way she never would have expected, he was able to get under her hardnosed exterior and find the woman that wanted to be pampered and loved.<br />Syneda suffered the pain of having her mother die when she was a child and the promise of a father that never came for her, she ended up raised in foster care unable to fully trust or love. Clayton loved Syneda the way he never thought he would ever love a woman, he wanted to help her over her pain and he sought to reconnect her past so they could have a future. Clayton is always there whether his advice is welcomed or not, but when he suffered Syneda's rejection of his love, a love he never offered another woman, he was lost.  Syneda finally came to realize that she needed and wanted the protective strength and unconditional love of Clayton and together they would be too much Madaris to handle.	2001-04-20
US	44950632	R3OVQSXNYSCGF4	1583140980	200645694	Swept Away (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More than a Love Story	I thoroughly enjoyed these characters. This was my first book by Gwynne Forster but it will not be my last.<br />Schyler Henderson and Veronica Overton share more than they realize when they first become enchanted with one another. However being on opposite sides of the court case Schyler has brought against the child services agency that Veronica heads does not provide them with the immediate trust with that attraction. Veronica's agency is exonerated but she takes a leave of absence to reevaluate her career options.  Schyler is passionate about children lost in an uncaring child welfare system because of the years he spent lost in that same system until he was adopted by Richard Henderson a man he loves deeply. Richard gave Schyler the home filled with love he needed and Schyler filled the void created in Richard when his wife abandoned him taking his daughter.<br />Veroncia's mother dies and she learns that the man she was raised to know as father was not and her mothers last request was for Veronica to find her real father, when she finds him she does not expect to find Schyler.  Although Schyler desires a relationship with Veronica he is loyal to his dad and can't fully accept her distrust of Richard. Veronica has many questions about her life she needs answers to, she wants something more with Schyler but not on his terms.  They both have to overcome obstacles of the past and learn to accept the love they feel for one another and allow that love to bridge their past with their future.  I also loved Jenny as the homeless woman that their lives touched on their journey to a happy tomorrow for them all.	2001-04-19
US	44950632	RF6R3ZH9TZKHK	1583140123	224741395	Summer Magic (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	What a Summer	What else can you expect from Rochelle but a summer of sizzle and love.  I have enjoyed the Hideaway series and this book is no exception.<br />Logan Prescott is an intelligent, too fine specimen of an African American man that a week prior to his wedding has found his fiancee' in bed with a member of his wedding party. He calls off the wedding without ever telling anyone why and goes into hiding at his best mans summer home.  Caryn Edwards is a woman recovering from a bad marriage and equally bad divorce from an abusive husband, she needs to relax and her friend has promised her the use of her summer home, as fate would have it she and Logan are sharing the same place.<br />Logan is not looking to become attracted to Caryn she is so unlike the women he would usually date, Caryn wants to heal from the deep wounds caused by her exhusband but Logan proves to be a distraction. Both Logan and Caryn's initial ruse of being more than housemates to allow them the solitude they seek develops into an attraction they both try to deny. Logan unexpectedly meets old collegemates that both recognize Logan and Caryn may have more than pretense of emotions.<br />Logan and Caryn are torn in not wanting the other to know what is in their heart, but they overcome the fear of past hurts to give them a future of more than one summer of magic.	2001-04-19
US	44950632	R11KVKJAPTYZ6D	0786003197	707803944	If Only You Knew (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Friends are Forever	This story establishes Carla Fredd as a bonafide romanticist. Ienjoyed this awakening from friends-2-lovers-2 an everlasting love.<br /><br />Best friend Anna May Robinson is the the one person Garrick Trevor Justice has allowed himself to trust.  Ric's view of family is distorted because of a bitter childhood suffered at the hands of a cruel and selfish grandmother after his emotionally fragile mother is manipulated by the vindictive actions of her new husband and rival of Ric's deceased father.<br /><br />Anna May and Ric have been friends since their teens when Ric's aunt and uncle rescued him and brought him to live with them.  Although the love they tried to show was not able to penetrate the aloof hardness he developed from years of abuse, Anna May's love and un-waivering friendship proved his saving grace.<br /><br />Now Anna May faces losing the opportunity of having the one thing she always wanted other than a romantic relationship with Ric and he has the opportunity to help her and satisfy a secret desire of his own.  This is the perfect story of how love really does conquer all.	2001-04-18
US	44950632	R119SOXJY08J6G	0786001909	636723542	Fire and Ice (Arabesque)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Better than the Movie	I read this book because it is now a BET movie and  I wanted to compare how true the movie would be to the story line.  The books are always better.<br />Michael Williams is a popular Talk Show host accustomed to being in the public eye, he is also a man that has not allowed his celebraty status to define him as a man.  Michael is a man who knows what he wants and goes after it and what he wants is Holly Aimes.  Holly is the daughter of a politican, the first African American govenor of his state now with a seat on the Senate.  Holly hates her life was thrust into public attention first by her father, then through her disasterous engagement with an actor.  She only wants a quiet existence.<br />Michael realizes he must help her overcome her deep insecurities if he is going to make her a permanent part of his life. Michael's patience, sincerity and love finally allow Holly the acceptance first of who she really is then for a life that will make her eternally happy.	2001-04-14
US	44950632	RDTSY9ZTG6KIA	0786005580	53294742	Commitments (Arabesque)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	COMMITTED	The way I determine when I connect with a book is that I will reread excerpts from that book, after I've completed reading it. Whether to recap the tenderness, humor, or passion of the character. This is one of those books. Fox and Van surrendered to their hearts and allowed the love for one another to complete them.<br />Fox endured the pain of a childhood marred by growing up in a loveless child services system causing her to shelter and protect her emotions. Van was hurt through his first marriage, but he was man enough to allow the experience to be a learning one. Together with the help of good ole' aunt Willow, they found, trust, healing and a forever love in one another.	2001-04-13
US	44950632	R2Y3TOHI39LTFM	1583141669	793236795	Shadow Of Love (Arabesque)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Too much of a shadow	I have read this authors book Real Love which I believe is much better in the development of the characters.  Tracy Wilson is a young widow who we can understand has to heal from the hurt of having her husband die so young.  Evan Maxwell is the twin brother of her boss with a past.<br /><br />While in St Hope Isle on vacation Tracy purchases a few trinkets she thought worthless, thus begins the game of cat and mouse and where the story gets weak.  Evan is blackmailed into his boyhood friends scheme to recover one of the trinkets which is not so worthless. Evans chance meeting with Tracy proves an immediate attraction between them and after realizing she is the one who his former friend has set him out to seek in regaining his property, he must do so with caution or ruin his chance for a life with Tracy.<br /><br />Tracy isn't sure whether she wants to trust Evan or be afraid. However, she feels drawn to Evan. The plot twists and flops between her fear and desires, kidnapping and more fear. Tracy seems to hold Evan responsible for his former friends attempt to reclaim his valuables, she should be an intelligent Black women and separate what the man was, from who is is now.<br /><br />The romance seems hurried and thin, most of the characters are underdeveloped, and in the end you are glad it's over.	2001-04-10
US	44950632	RO8SKU7EZ2I01	1583141707	616636406	Temptation (Arabesque)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Almost Tempting	The \\"Temptation\\" for me was maintaining my focus of the plotline. Danita Godfrey and Stuart Lowell grew up in the family business, a business that linked two families thru partnership if not in romance.  With the retirement of Danita's uncle from the flagstore of the business leaving an impending vacancy on the board, Stuart and Danita who have always proven to be fierce competitors are brought together with each realizing that one of them would walk away with the coveted position.<br /><br />Family secrets, deceit, greed and health issues provide a fairly disconnected measure of intrigue. This is where I found the plot sketchy with Danita and Stuart falling into the scheme of Danita's uncle and his partner in malipulation Alan, Stuart's father.<br /><br />Danita realized that she did need to prove her abilities in the boardroom to cover for past insecurities and hurt. She opened her heart to the healing love of the man the other \\"cousins\\" fantasized about. Stuart let his concern and love forge the compromise that would allow them both what that wanted with each other and their dream for success.	2001-04-09
US	44950632	R9FR4ORNKWJHR	1583141294	612438703	Dangerous Passions (Arabesque)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Passion From The Past	Shemar Dalton's ex-wife left him bitter and distrustful that a woman could appreciate and love him for who, not what he was. Marita Sommers was still caught in past memories of her first  love Remmy, who's young life was cut short by his tragic death.<br /><br />Losing her job after holding fast to her values, Marita's aunt treats her to a much needed get-away to the beautiful, tropical island of Bermuda. Staying at childhood friend Shemar's townhouse for the summer, Marita is not aware he is also there completing his latest bestseller, or how much her old friend's life has changed.  Shemar's feelings for Marita were always deeper than just a friend, but her materialistic ways made him cautious of her.  When his family moved away and calls and letters to her go unanswered and the ticket he sent her to his graduation is never used, their lives drifts apart but Shemar never forgot Marita.<br /><br />Pam, Shemar's cousin by marriage has always loved him, now that he is divorced she is ready to seize her opportunity when Marita arrives awakening old emotions in Shemar and sparking new ones for Marita.  Pam plans to destroy the beauty, she is not aware Valerian Tate has the same plan.  Marieta's testimony caused 18 years of Valerian's life to be spent in prison taking the lifestyle he coveted.  His mission is to make her pay.<br /><br />As the island's magic works it's spell over Shemar and Marita and they discover truths and secrets of each others heart, other forces are working to keep the new lovers from their destiny.  Remmy's love proves to transcend time and space as he warns Marita of the evil around her and encourages her to let new love heal her broken spirit.<br /><br />Pam's jealousy and Valerian's hatred is a shadow of evil that only true love, trust, and forgiveness allow's Shemar and Marita to overcome.	2001-04-04
