US	44970789	R1H1AWQCEEFZDZ	0451208765	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Entertaining if a little far-fetched	This is the first book I've read from Greg Iles. I read it on the recommendation of a friend and intend on reading more of his work. <br /> <br />This book takes us into the life of John Waters, a geologist who scouts potential oil well sites near his home town of Natchez, Mississippi. He has a successful business, a beautiful wife and daughter, devoted friends, and everything seems perfect until one day he catches a veiled signal from Eve Sumner, a signal from a past relationship that John had tried to forget. Unable to shake the curiosity from his mind, he starts down a path that leads him towards adultery, murder, and threatens to tear his life, and his family, apart. <br /> <br />The best elements of this novel are the characters, who are for the most part generally likeable (in spite of themselves) and well fleshed out, and the mystery-novel like suspense that permeates the first two-thirds of the novel. We get particularly good insight into John's past relationships and the insecurities all the main characters seem to have about sex. There is also a good dynamic through the bulk of the novel between plausible naturalistic explanations to the what happens and the feeling that it just has to be supernatural. <br /> <br />Where the novel suffers is in carrying the story into the final act where Iles seems to almost get carried away with his own premise. What had driven the characters early in the novel - compassion, dissatisfaction, hidden histories, etc. - suddenly takes a back seat to elaborate schemes and plot twists built around a premise that nobody seems to take as anything but granted anymore. (I also just had to wonder that, if what happens in the book can happen, just how often it happens, if only one person can do it, or if anyone can but they don't know how.) <br /> <br />At any rate, though, this is an entertaining book, if nothing too deep. <br /> <br />Matthew D. Johnston	2005-05-29
US	44970789	R397MCOADDIFX7	0440242002	430694437	Bleachers	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A lesser, but enjoyable, effort from Grisham	\\"The Bleachers\\" tells the story of a town drawn back together by the imminent death of the town's prolific high school football coach Eddie Rake. In particular, the story focuses on the conflicted feelings of Neely Crenshaw, a former quarterback prodigy, who grew to despise Rake over four years under his watch, but also admire him for getting the most out of himself and others. Although sometimes unsure why he'd returned to Messina, Crenshaw relives his high school triumphs and failures with his old football pals and high school flames. <br /> <br />The story is told in typical Grisham fashion - over-the-top, dramatic to the core, but truly entertaining. About twenty or thirty pages are devoted to the reliving of a pivotal football game, Crenshaw's last game in high school, and while it is certainly an over-the-top scenario - filled with broken hands, missing coaches, last second plays, the works - it is truly entertaining, even for a non-football fan such as myself. It's something that could only come from the mind of Grisham, and he fills these 200 some odd pages with many such scenarios. There are many dramatic retellings, including stories of Vietnam and racial tension, all centering around Eddie Rake. And for the most part, Grisham succeeds in painting a complete character, one who's deeper and more layered than it first appears. <br /> <br />That said, the drama did, for me, become a little too much at points, as when Crenshaw visits an old high school girlfriend, now married, and tells her he's sorry for not taking their relationship seriously (as with The King of Torts, the main character has dropped the serious, sophisticated love interest for a sex object - I think I see a trend in Grisham's writing, one I hope he stops). Also, the dialogue, while great for telling a dramatic and descriptive story, is occasionally monotonous - every character sounds basically the same, and I just can't imagine these guys describing a football game they were all involved into each other. Eventually, thankfully, the sheriff, a man from another era, comes along so they finally have a reason to explain things. <br /> <br />Anyway, all in all, an enjoyable read for those who enjoy Grisham. Nothing deep, but at 230 pages, it's not very intimidating. <br /> <br />Matthew D. Johnston	2004-08-23
US	44970789	R321F1Q73ZEW0D	0060082194	757728138	Rum Punch	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable	Elmore Leonard's &quot;Rum Punch&quot; (which was the basis of Quentin Tarantino's &quot;Jackie Brown&quot;) is a page-turner in the truest sense of the word - it's hard to put down. Leonard's has crafted a novel with his usual ear for fantastic and witty dialogue and fast, descriptive and fluent prose. Add a well-crafted and surprising plot and we have one of Leonard's finest works.<br />The story revolves around Jackie Burke (changed to Jackie Brown in the film), an airline stewardess who smuggles money between locations for Ordell Robbie, an arms-dealing hot-talking crook who uses everyone he comes in contact with for his own gain. The plot takes off when Jackie is caught by the police with the money for a delivery (along with some drugs she didn't know were in there) and Ordell is forced to bail her out through a bail bondsman, Max Cherry. Jackie sets up a sting operation which has the appearance of involving everyone -- the police, Ordell, even Ordell's discontented callgirl. In the end... well, you'll have to read it for that.<br />What makes &quot;Rum Punch&quot; a pleasure to read, like all of Leonard's novels, are the fringe characters which seemingly only he could dream up. The relationship between Louis, Ordell's dim-witted and short-tempered right hand man, and Melanie, Ordell's primary callgirl, is amusing, as are scenes like Ray Nicholette's bravado-style shootout with one of Ordell's arms-shipping lackeys. Leonard also intersperses interesting bits of character introspection, things like Max Cherry's contemplation about his relationship with his wife (with whom he's separated) and Jackie's three ex-husbands (although she only usually says there's two, because two of them were so similar, even in name, that they're hard to tell apart).<br />The plot itself goes off without a hitch. There's nothing profound, and probably nothing new, but the execution is suspenseful and works because of the strong characters involved.<br />Heartily recommended.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2004-05-28
US	44970789	R23NFAIC64SBTL	1400030927	548424525	Jennifer Government	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Great ideal, mediocre execution	Max Barry's &quot;Jennifer Government&quot; takes us into a not-so-futuristic world in which corporations have more power than governments, the newly-revamped NRA has more firepower than the recently privatized police force, and people assume the surname of the company for which they work. The story follows a fistful of characters as they battle to meet their own needs as two competing parent corporations, Team Advantage and US Alliance, fight for market loyalty. Various sabotage schemes evolved, including one which has Hack Nike, a lowly Nike employee, inadvertently contracted to kill Nike customers in a savy marketting ploy.<br />The story, and the satire, have their strengths and weaknesses. As a story, there are simply too many characters to care about any one of them and towards the end I found the novel veered away from its proper roots as a corporate satire and into a more mainstream gun-fighter cat-and-mouse chase type action novel. Add a few unlikely personal relationship coincidences and a bad guy run amok of all common sense and I didn't find the finish of the novel overly compelling. I enjoyed the earlier chapters, where every action was dictated by some obscene futuristic corporate ideology, far more.<br />As satire there's only so much to say, because only so much is there to delve into. I was disappointed that there weren't more layers introduced and more focus given to some of the issues raised, because each and every one of them is interesting. What if corporations tried to physically eliminate the government? What if law enforcement units had to raise funding before beginning investigations, no matter what the crime or societal interest in justice? What if corporations waged war on each other, as countries do now? In the end, you won't find an overly compelling answers, just glossed over ones. This isn't &quot;1984&quot;, where every nook and cranny and ideological point of this new society is given in full detail and rational and punched home withevery single things that happens throughout the novel. I was still left wondering about how this world had evolved, what the interaction between the government and corporations had been limited to, what had become of hot-button issues like poverty, the environment and crime. But, on the other side, even raising these questions is more than most novels do, and for that, perhaps, the novel is still worth a read.<br />That said, there are some ingenious set-ups, some interesting (if almost uniformly similar) characters, and memorable lines. The most memorable thing I will take from this novel, however, is the cover photograph, which will live in my mind long after the details of this novel have completely faded away.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2004-05-06
US	44970789	R3PX81LZQNXCNB	0451191153	594264062	The Fountainhead	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Interesting and idealistic	Ayn Rand's &quot;The Fountainhead&quot;, like her &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; (which I had previously read), is a fast, interesting, thought-provoking if overly idealized read. Above all else, it's very strongly written, clear in its intentions and consistent in its characterizations. It is, while being most noted as a vessel for a particular philosophy (Rand's &quot;Objectivism&quot;), first and foremost an oustanding literary work. I would strongly recommend it for anybody interested in politics, philosophy or social issues - positive or negative, it's sure to get a response.<br />In this novel, Ayn Rand takes us into the lives of Howard Roark and Peter Keating, two aspiring architects who choose differing paths when forced to market their skills in the world - Keating choosing that of populism and pleasing the masses, while Roark chooses that of individualism and self-sufficiency. Other characters become involved in shaping the story and characters, including Ellsworth Toohey, a socialist newspaper columnist who coddles Keating and gives support to various &quot;mediocre&quot; artists; Dominique Francon, an independent, free mind who influences both of the lead characters; and Gail Wynand, the owner of several newspapers whose content he continues to ignore until it's almost too late. The story largely follows the two leads, Roark and Keating, as they adapt to the market with Rand's unique philosophical discourse espoused strongly in the final 50-100 pages as the resolution nears.<br />As a story, it's one with few faults. It flows quickly and remains true to its ideals. Rand's writing is, while overly idealized (okay, okay, so nobody in the real world goes on these kinds of idealistic rants seemingly at random places in normal dialogue), on a whole very readable and descriptive. The plot culminates well, even if the motivations of the some of her characters and her arbitration of &quot;hero&quot; and &quot;heroic&quot; are sometimes open for questioning. The onlyplot point I would question is the resolution to the legal battle near the end, which while serving Rand's ideological point, has no semblance of realism at all. That verdict would simply not happen. Anywhere. Ever.<br />On an ideological level, this novel has the same strengths and weakness as her other major novel, &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot;. On the plus side, it's clear, well articulated, forceful and likely to please anyone with even a fleeting interest in her style of thinking, that individualism promotes greatness and collectivism promotes mediocrity and tyranny. Using the dichotomy of Roark and Keating, two idealized characters, she manages to stress this point well.<br />On the minus side, there is a great deal of this story which is idealized to the point where it loses some of its relevance in the real world. The world is not as even and completely divided as she paints it, with all individualists aspiring to individual greatness and all collectivists aspiring towards either a) complacency; or b) absolute power over complacency. There are a great deal of individualists who aspire towards hedonism and self-gratification and a great deal of collectivists who aspire towards general well-being. There are also people who don't seen individualism and collectivism as mutual exclusive philosophies, depending on the issue addressed. In that sense, the character of Ellsworth Toohey is somewhat of a strawman - he's meant to symbolize everything that associated with collectivism, but represents only Rand's interpretation of it, people who preach general well-being but seek personal power.<br />The philosophy, like all philosophies, also suffers from the leap from one or two, or a handful of, situations to a universal truth. In this case, she jumps individualism promotes greatness while collectivism promotes mediocrity (which is still questionable) to individualism is a superior moral philosophy to collectivism (she made a similar jump in &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; from individualism is superior to collectivism economically, therefore...). If you're willing to make the jump that great architecture is produced by individuals acting in their own interest not collectively, therefore low income housing is an abomination unless its built by people acting in their own self interest, then fine. Personally, I would keep different tiers of a philosophy's application (moral, economical, social, asthetic, etc.) separate. That asthetic greatness can be produced by one man acting for his own selfish good does not, to me, imply that all those who seek to help others are suckers.<br />Anyway, recommended reading.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2004-05-05
US	44970789	R3E0D8DK7DL3SS	0771080190	35485461	Terry Fox: His Story (Revised)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A good biography	&quot;Terry Fox: His Story&quot; tells of the life of a man who needs little introduction the world over. Terry's one-legged run halfway across Canada in 1980 is a story of great national pride here, and indeed many countries have caught on to the spirit. Terry's tragic, heroic story is commemorated every year with the fundraising &quot;Terry Fox Run&quot;, held around the world, with the proceeds going towards cancer research.<br />&quot;His Story&quot; succeeds in providing a comprehensive, if not overly personal, look at Terry's life. I was also impressed by the dynamic and care given to the run itself, as it progressed from one location/town to another. Not every city was as enthusiastic as the last one, for instance, and the author takes care to show how Terry learns to respond to these varying regional reactions, and learns to become a very capable public speaker. The author also takes great care to show that the running was not easy work for Terry, that on many days he simply physically could not accomplish what he set out to do. It makes what he did accomplish all that much more impressive.<br />All in all, I was left with a new respect for Terry as a result of reading this book. As an occasional runner myself, I know how difficult it is to get up, on two legs, and go. Which makes you wonder, if Terry Fox could jog nearly a marathon every day for six months on one leg, by comparison, what excuse has anybody else got to not do anything?<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2003-10-31
US	44970789	R31O8BAUQ931L9	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Phenomenal	I was curious how a few years might change the perspective I had on this book from the first time I read it, in grade 10. Indeed, I think I have benefitted from having a more grown-up view to this material, given how much weight it carries, even if the story is told from the point of view of a youth.<br />&quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot; tells the story of an Alabama family, the Finch's, who get caught up a racial battle in their small town as Atticus, a father and widower, defends a black man against the charge of rape. The story is told rather wonderfully from the point of view of Scout, a naive and hot-headed young girl with a nose for a fight, who wanders among many stories, from the eccentric Radleys, to playground fights, to wondering why her father continues to defend that man everyone seems so intent on lynching.<br />&quot;To Kill A Mockingbird&quot; is a wonderful story. It's sweet and poignant and principled without ever being schmaltzy or loaded with sentiment. Among the strongest points, in my opinion, are the little conversations Atticus has with others explaining why he's doing what he's doing, the court sequences, and the subplot with Arthur Radley. There is a pervasive theme of not judging others before getting to know them which is a lasting, timeless message.<br />Recommended to everyone.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2003-10-31
US	44970789	RRJ613OYG7JI2	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Strong Moral Tale	This book is very similar to the movie, which is probably because Scott B. Smith was granted the opportunity to write the screenplay to the film as well. \\"A Simple Plan\\" tells the story of two brothers, Hank and Jacob, who find a crashed plane in a forest near their home towns with a friend of Jacob's, Lou. In the plane is a bag of money -- over $4 million. Conflicted over ideas of who owns the money, where it came from, and how it would change their lives for the better if they kept it, they eventually agree to sit on the money for six months, until the spring thaw and the plane is found; if there is no mention of missing money, they agree to split it three ways.<br />Of course, things don't go as planned, and the novel takes twist after twist which propels Hank, the narrator of the story, into deeper and deeper moral quagmires. With each choice he makes to protect their theft and his sure wealth, he adds new things he would take the fall for should they be discovered, and new things he must live with on his conscience.<br />While the plot is very similar eventwise to the movie, there are a few deviations -- and, strangely enough, they almost always seem to work in the movie's favour. I watched -- and absolutely loved -- the movie a few years ago, so I knew the basic plot and was pleased to see the similarities. I count the movie among the best pure \\"moral\\" movies ever made, where the underlying principle is just a dilemma about doing the right things. But there are things which were in the novel which make Hank's choice less sympathetic than in the movie. In the movie I felt that his choices were truly, as Sarah rationalizes, without choice at all, just outcomes of their initial choice to sit on the money, things that had to follow. He never does anything which is premeditated and malicious. But here we see Hank morally deteriorated to the point where he's picking on (to put it lightly) absolutely innocent people to cover his mistakes, and not taking moral standshe knows he should make for the sake of others (one particular choice I'm thankful that he *does* make in the movie). I also didn't like the resolution to Jacob's involvement, which is the most noticeable change between the novel and the movie.<br />Otherwise, though, I think both the movie and the novel are worth paying attention to. Some of Hank's choices toward the end of the novel might be slightly stretching credibility, but there is an underlying principle which is strongly demonstrated throughout: good people can do evil things. The question of how close we are to being Hank Mitchells ourselves is always there, because he is, for the most part, just a normal guy. The question is not \\"What would you do if you found $4 million?\\" but rather \\"What would you do to keep $4 million?\\" If we're to accept that Hank Mitchell is just another normal guy, I'd say the answer is pretty scary.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2003-07-20
US	44970789	R2DCUSQB6DQ6WN	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	4	11	15	N	N	Well written and occasionally thought provoking	I was very much looking forward to borrowing this book, held by many as the be-all end-all of Christian apologetics, from my brother. In many respects, I was very pleased with what I found -- Lewis is a very strong writer, with a clear voice, clear non-ambiguous argumentative style, and it always seems as though he's speaking with you, rather than at you. He's not a preacher or an evangelist -- he's a man who just wants to put what he believes out there in the open, take it or leave. At several instances, he acknowledges the boundaries of his words: for instance, in his chapter on faith, he says \\"I am not asking anyone to accept Christianity if his best reasoning tells him that the weight of the evidence is against\\" (p. 140), recognizing the possibility without being condescending to the person who holds it. For bringing logical, rational thought to an area of thought of dominated by televangelists and mindless cliches, it's a breathe of fresh air to see somebody actually arguing on basic principles for their beliefs, and accepting that if somebody disagree that is fully within their rights as well. It's something I wish more people would do, and if reading this book is a good way to promote that, I recommend this to everyone.<br />I suspect this book with be regarded the strongest by Christians who wish to strengthen their beliefs, and will be a useful tool for people who wish to come into belief but don't know quite what that entails. For the wavering Christian, I don't think you can do better than this book: it's well written, clear, and so far as I can gather from the lauding, accurate to its source, the Bible.<br />That said, I was surprised at points -- given how highly regarded this book is not only as a theology book, but as a apologistic/philosophy book -- to see some of the arguments used. He has many good points, of course, which I should not overlook mentioning. His argument against the problem of evil is nearly classic -- I've seen it quote a couple dozen times. One does not know evil, he argues, unless he measures it against good, just as one does not know a crooked like unless he sees a straight one. Far from a universal truth (opinions on good and evil differ) but a strong point about the subjectivity of the argument. His arguments for Christian charity and the value of deliberation are likely to strike a strong chord with all.<br />But I think there are some shortcomings. He uses the example of witches to show that people do not disagree directly on morality unless they disagree on the facts (witches were believed to be \\"people going about who had sold themselves to the devil and received supernatural powers from him in return and were using these powers to kill their neighbours or drive them amd or bring bad weather\\"). But there are many instances where the facts are clear but people directly disagree about the moral implications, aren't there? How about masturbation? Or homosexuality? Or animal rights? Or abortion? Certainly with the first two the facts are amply clear, but there appears to be a great moral divide -- some feel these are moral permissable, and others feel they are a moral abomination. Why isn't the inner voice clearer on these obviously moral issues?<br />He argues for the Christian devil by taking the Dualist point of view (there is an absolute good and an absolute bad power, equally powerful) and reducing it down to a more Christian-friendly idea (there is an absolute good power, and a rebelling, but lesser powerful, evil power). I was left with the impression: What of the person who simply believes the devil isn't a necessary being? He never directly argues for a devil, or defends against critisisms of the Christian conception of the devil, both of which are critical elements in any argument which comes to his conclusion.<br />His argument for Christ as the one and only Son of God goes basically along these lines: if somebody makes a claim about who they are, they are either correct or crazy; since Christ claimed to be God and appears to be a good and rationally sane person, he cannot be crazy; therefore he is the God. I know this isn't the only reason C. S. Lewis believed what he believed (although it's the only one cited), but I honestly could not believe reading this in print. If Gandhi had but claimed to have been God, we would be praising his name? Come on...<br />His forays into God-time logic are interesting. I disagree with his assessment that \\"Everyone who believes in God at all believes that He knows what you are and I are going to do tomorrow\\" (p. 170). I'm a theist, and I believe no such thing; it's is entirely incompatable with free will, which I hold to be a self-evident truth. Perhaps this was a reasonable statement at the time, but even the last few theist debaters I've seen haven't held such a view, usually limiting God's omniscience to present state knowledge rather than pre-cognition. Granted, one was Muslim, but doesn't he fall under Lewis' statement as well?<br />Lewis is usually very good at his choice of analogy, although I found one oddity later in the book (if they hadn't been in consecutive chapters, I may not have noticed it). He argues that individuality cannot be maintained through collectivity, as if life became one in the afterlife, because a drop ceases to be a drop when it is placed in an ocean. He then argues that individual *can* be maintained through collectivity, as in the trinity of God, because they are merely dimensions of the same thing and dimensions are distinct. But couldn't one just as easily argue that the Holy Spirit and Jesus Christ lose their individuality, like a drop in the ocean (God), or that people in an afterlife maintain their individuality in a collective afterlife, just as dimensions keep their individuality when more is added?<br />Anyway, enough brain fodder. Recommended reading.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2003-07-20
US	44970789	R3CIWBP77RZA3M	0743457358	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful read	I remember the first short story collection I ever read. It was in grade 8 that I decided to pick Stephen King's Skeleton Crew off my dad's bookshelf. I was left with a cold sweat for the rest of elementary school, but I'll never forget the some of the stories, classics like The Mist and The Jaunt (the latter of which still ranks as my favourite short story of all-time). It was first taste of King, the the beginning of a long relationship, as they say.<br />King's lastest collection, Everything's Eventual, consists of 14 short stories (ranged 15-90 pages) and, like most of King's work, it's an assortment of hits and misses, with some stories bordering on profounding at times while others fizzle in the \\"who seriously thought this was a good idea?\\" area. I've found a similar trend with his novels, with some (Carrie, The Shining, The Green Mile, etc.) leaving me hugging the book by the end, and others (Gerald's Game, Rose Madder, Thinner, etc.) leaving me swearing of further Stephen King investments. But, in the end, when King hits, he hits hard and in unforgettable ways, which in a way makes me tolerate his inevitable misses. And as always, King is a very enjoyable to read and always has you grasping for the next page.<br />Among the most enjoyable stories I found were The Little Sisters of Eluria, a prequel of sorts to the Dark Tower series, which is at times weird, at times sensitive, but always genuinely creepy; Autopsy Room Four, King's stab at the immortal question, \\"What if everyone thought you were dead but you really weren't?\\" which has been manifested in countless buried alive stories; The Road Virus Heads North, the chilling story of a haunted painting which stalks a man on his way home (you'll see how); and Riding the Bullet, the popular e-story which is among the strongest character studies I've seen King do.<br />Among the stories I wasn't so fond of were Everything's Eventual, which for one of the longer piece, seemed to have the least amount of quantity; 1408, which tells the story of a haunted hotel (yep, tredding similar waters there Steve); and I'm with King in his distaste for The Man In The Black Suit (although many people out there I suspect will like it - I assume it didn't win the O'Henry prize for nothing).<br />All in all, though, I'll bear his misses (and most of his misses aren't that far off, either) for the hits. There's something for every King fan in this collection.<br />Matthew D. Johnston	2003-06-15
US	44970789	R2WPBF4OGRSGOK	0072332344	591746946	Psychology	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Well organized and easy to read	Sdorow's text is perfect for any introductory College or University level course. The chapters are organized clearly, with roughly equal weight (30-40 pages) given to each of the subtopics (which is good for course design). Also, the range of topics is broad enough to give any first-year psychology student a comprehensive look at what the field has to offer. There isn't overwhelming depth in any one of the chapters, but they do provide enough information, and enough of the pivotal studies and hypotheses, to give students a fair understanding of these psychological subfields.<br />Most importantly, though, Sdorow is an incredibly easy read, which should go down relatively easily for any person even with a fleeting interest in psychology (like myself). Diagrams supplement nearly every study or hypothesis. A colourful &quot;emotion wheel&quot; may seem ridiculous to some, but it really does illustrate their point! Studies are also supplemented by pictures, including photos of many influential psychologists (and usually a key quote), charts and graphs. Keys point in the margins and concise chapter summaries make for easy studying.<br />A great introductory psychology text, and one of the few first-year textbooks I intend on keeping.<br />Matty J	2003-03-05
US	44970789	R311BJP39VKB2F	0889842485	511370653	The Deep	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Rich	Unpublished review:<br />When you speak of literary contests and collections, few are spoken of with higher regard than the O. Henry Awards. Every year since 1919, they've selected the cream of the literary crop for an annual anthology, including among them, the Award recipients. While such established writers as John Updike, Ray Bradbury, Stephen King, and Alice Munro have regularly graced O. Henry's pages, 2001's winner was none other than Guelph's own Mary Swan.<br />\\"The Deep\\", an 89 page \\"short story\\", follows the tale of twin sisters, Ruth and Esther, who travel to France during World War I to assist at refugee camps. Coming from a privileged, if disjointed, family they aren't quite ready for what they find. The new world is one where relationships are necessarily temporal, lost limbs are a welcomed relief from battle, and best friends die without seeing their killers' eyes. Described throughout with various levels of dream-like disbelief and nightmare-like horror, this reality soon becomes all they can identify with, and they wonder how they could possibly return to the simple life they once knew.<br />\\"The Deep's\\" strengths lie in its descriptions. The story is a collection of events, rather than a single narrative or linear plot, which eventually takes the form of a story collage. Within this collection, Mary Swan manages to paints some staggering situations. Imagine a world in which a sister can describe the sequence following the last time she sees he brother as: \\"Then back to camp, then onto a ship, then marching down a dark, rutted road on the way to the trenches for the fire time. The scream of a shell, and nothing more\\". Or where a man can lose his hands and have it described as: \\"He'd been reaching for something or someone when the shell came; he was not too badly hurt, except for that\\".<br />These revelations come to Ruth and Esther much as they come to the reader. This isn't a story of front lines or gore, but rather a story of emotional attachments and reactions. We meet characters who are searching for love ones - assuming \\"missing\\", not \\"the other thing\\" - and who are grappling with the tragic past, wondering what they could have done differently, how lives might have been saved. Ruth and Esther experience the war through the stories they hear, the people they see cry, and the lives they see change - rather than the blood and guts, which is a welcomed relief. <br />The story does, however, falter slightly with its use of a shifting point of view, which is neither handled consistently nor particularly effectively. There is nothing to distinguish Esther's narrative voice Nan's or the Headmistress'. Each switch seems primarily as though it were the same person speaking in another's place, which leaves little room for dynamic and makes differentiating between the narrators a chore.<br />But it matters very little in the grand scheme of things. \\"The Deep\\" is a story filled with vivid descriptions, strong relationships, and profound heartbreaks. It's a brisk read, and a worthy prize winner.	2003-03-05
US	44970789	R1RA0T5XKMSLLR	0471122106	946105034	Probability: An Introduction with Statistical Applications	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Probably the worst text I've ever bought	I've yet to hear anyone speak positively about this text (including, at many points, my Statistics professor). (In all fairness, this particular book may have just been incredibly poorly selected for the course, which was the first Stats course the majority of the students had taken. At a higher level of statistical analysis, this text may be appropriate -- although, at that level, it may be perplexing as to why there are chapters on binomial distributions and approximating normals, etc., at all.)<br />At any rate, this text is NOT suited for introductory probabilistic or statistic analysis. It's a very notation-heavy and example-laden text, with very little appeal to intuition or worldly application. The individual sections rarely exceed 3 or 4 pages, in many cases leaving the student looking over the section in vain trying to find that important bit of knowledge they missed the first time around when it comes to doing the assigned problems at the end. The generating function chapter (5 pages, 2 of graphs), for instance, has a single straight-forward and painfully easy example -- rolling dice -- and then, in the supplementary questions, expects the student to discover Taylor polynomials for fractional exponent functions (or so I discovered upon asking the professor). Not only isn't there an example of this, there isn't even an allusion to the possibility of there being one. The entire class of 30 was bewildered. There is not one mention of Taylor polynomials within the chapter (not even to say they're sometimes necessary), or even a vague model for &quot;discovering&quot; generating functions from a series of numbers -- the only example works the other way (given generating function, find series). But perhaps it relies on knowledge pressupposed from other statistics course, in which case the fault lies on the professor.<br />Organizationally, this may be one of the hardest texts I've ever had to navigate. The blend of statistics and probability is confusing and ill-defined. The chapter on Geometric and Negative Binomial Distributions (probability-oriented) comes on the heels of Acceptance Sampling and Hypothesis Testing (statistical concepts), which comes on the heels of the Binomial Distribution. In practice, hypothesis testing has very little to do with probability (if you have a probabilistic model, you don't really need a hypothesis), and as a scientific concept requires statistic inferences that are no as of this point introduced. Other subtopics seem to be interspersed pretty well at random.<br />All in all, unless you have an incredibly high tolerance for statistic notation, and an incredible aptitude for seeing between the lines, this is not the book for you. The only redeeming chapter I found was on continuous functions. Otherwise, this text seems to presuppose far too much intuitive statistical understanding to be of any use to anyone but the most educated of statistians -- and I suspect those people have already found a better text in the first place.<br />Matty J	2003-03-05
US	44970789	R2W7TPR37SX3S3	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not Irving's best	A Widow For One Year takes us into the lives of Eddie O'Hare, a teenager on the brink of manhood, and Ruth Cole, the daughter of a novelist who turns into a novelist herself. At sixteen, Eddie is offered a summer job by Ted and Marion Cole, and goes to spend two months with them and their four-year-old daughter, Ruth. Through the summer, Eddie falls in love with Marion, who is eagerly giving him a sexual education, and Ruth is caught in the middle off a bitter but unspoken battle between the philandering pornographer Ted and the obsessed and depressed Marion, who is still heartbroken over the loss of their two sons in an auto accident. The novel follows Ruth and Eddie at later ages, both novelists, as they struggle to make sense of their lots in life, and find their \\"fictious\\" works heavily influences by their own experiences. By the end of the novel, we've seen suicide, murder, marriage, divorce, death (by neither suicide nor murder), virginities lost and hearts shattered.<br />As always, Irving is a fabulous descriptor, and second-to-none when it comes to delving into the heads of his characters and making us see things through their eyes. There is always the sense, no matter how ridiculous the situation happens to be, that it could happen, just because of Irving's descriptions. And it's strange, in a novel where four main characters are novelists and express concern over making too much of their fiction based on real life, the question of where Irving got his inspiration for the novel never entered my mind. It always felt, to me, as though the novel were an entity in an of itself -- almost removed entirely from its author. To be able to do that is a rare gift.<br />On the downside, there are many plot holes and absurdities and just plain old anti-climaxes in this novel to warrant, I think, a poorer rating than some of his other works. The description above is, in all honest, probably more interesting than the novel actually is. At 537 pages, A Widow has plenty ofspace to drag, and it does. It's not that there is an extended period of time where nothing happens, but there are extended periods of time where nothing important happens -- entire subplots and situations are introduced which have no clear purpose or long-term relevance. At one point, there's a marriage, which would seem like an important plot event, but the guy dies -- without us having even known him -- in the next chapter. Worst of all, the death doesn't even seem to affect the widow. Why did she have to get married to somebody she doesn't care about, if she was going to be single at the beginning of one chapter, and single at the start of the next, and isn't going to learn anything in between? There's another plot turn, a murder, which serves only to introduce another character at the 400th page. I'm still trying to figure that one out.<br />And, despite Irving's most convincing writing, there are some situations which stretch credibility. I wasn't able to quite buy a 90-year-old doctor performing births and abortions in The Cider House Rules, and I'm completely bewildered at why a mid-30's woman would choose to have sex with a 77-year-old man (and how he could have sex at all), or how a 52-year-old man would fantasize about the breasts of a 76-year-old woman. Perhaps he's not being entirely seriously, or perhaps I'm out of touch with aging. Also, some of the love situations seem a little trying. Every character who does seem to fall in love in this novel seems to fall into it as a last resort, with a sort of best available alternative attitude. For a love story, there really aren't two characters in this story who demonstratably belong together, not two characters who have a real strong emotional attachment to one another. It was the same problem he had in The Fourth Hand, where the main character just sort of decides on the spur of the moment who to stay with because he doesn't have any other real opportunities. But perhaps I'm alone in feeling that's a little anticlimactic.<br />In any case, I'd recommend picking up A Prayer For Owen Meany or The Cider House Rules before this one.<br />Matty J	2003-02-24
US	44970789	R28C3V70O40R40	1573225517	138260184	High Fidelity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hysterical	High Fidelity tells the story of Rob, a thirty-something record store owner who is growing increasingly unsure of himself. Not only has his girlfriend, Laura, just moved out, and his business started to suffer, he's begun to look retrospectively on his life and realized that his relationships have never really worked out. Confiding in the reader, he takes us on a journey to find out just why that is.<br />High Fidelity, I found, works on a lot of levels -- although they're perhaps levels that you wouldn't expect a novel to work out. As a love story, it's not going to touch your heart. As a tragedy of everyday living, Rob's story isn't going to make you cry (Rob doesn't deserve much sympathy very often -- and he certainly never demands it!). As an epic, well, it's just a story of an everyday guy.<br />But High Fidelity undeniably strikes a chord. It's contemporary and legitimate and everything a modern novel should be. It deals with issues of growing old, when to start a family, our own insecurities (and the insecurities in others we often don't see), measures of success, money and relationships, friendship... all the good stuff. And it's one helluva ride getting there, too. Hornby's prose is wonderful -- brisk and hilarious. Hornby has a good eye for the ironies of everyday life, and the ironies of Rob's life. The story's told in the first person perspective, which is handled flawlessly. Everything's pure Rob, and as anybody who's seen the movie (which rightfully, stays true to its source material) knows, he's quite the interesting person to be around.<br />It's a novel that's hard to critisize. If you're not a fan of contemporary writing and stories about modern urban society, you're not going to like this. There's little I would call timeless or objective about this novel. It's not Romeo &amp; Juliet. But if you're looking for something contemporary, something hilarious and touching, you're not going to find a better novel than this one.<br />Matty J	2003-02-21
US	44970789	RC15YDB9OFT9S	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sensational	With &quot;The Great Gatsby&quot;, F. Scott Fitzgerald takes us into the life of Nick Carraway, who - at the height of 1920's glitz and excess - has just moved to the East Coast with the hopes of getting in bonds sales. Detached but forever present and trusted by the characters, Nick tells the story of Jay Gatsby, an enigmatic neighbour who throws lavish parties, and Daisy, with whom Gatsby is infatuated. As the story evolves, we are slowly given insight into an odd love triangle, the penalties of excess, and who Jay Gatsby really is.<br />The Great Gatsby is a smooth read which maintains its capacity to be called a classic throughout the ages, despite having been written 80 years ago. The themes it investigates (infidelity, greed, class struggles, etc.) are as timeless as Fitzgerald's wonderful prose, and the carefully interwoven and surprising storyline makes for an exceptionally entertaining read as well. Although I would struggle to call this a &quot;love story&quot;, as some have, I would certainly concede that it is a story about love. More than just a love story, though, it deals with the ramifications of infidelity, the consequences of infatuation, and the effect wealth and security has on it. Fitzgerald's statement can be found in simply considering where everyone is at the end, and what they have done to be there. Is that justice?<br />A welcome read for everyone. True classic.<br />Matty J	2003-01-31
US	44970789	RPBGT03OSHFSP	0345361792	438809520	A Prayer for Owen Meany	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Incredible, if FAR too long	A Prayer for Owen Meany by John Irving is the story of the life of Owen Meany, an undersized, raspy-voiced compulsive trouble-maker and menace to all things holy, who just happens to also believe he is an instrument of God. The story is told through the eyes of his best friend, John Wheelwright, who recounts the tale of how he has come to believe in God through the story of his best friend's life and death.<br />A Prayer for Owen Meany is a superbly crafted novel with a wonderful build and among the absolute best, and most touching, payoffs I have ever read. Owen Meany provides a shining example of all that faith and humanity are capable of, and the climax left my heart churning and my soul wretching. Come to think of it, I don't think I have ever felt like that after having read a novel. There is meaning and purpose in every nook and cranny of the finale -- politically, spiritually, everywhere. Truly, everyone should be able to finish this novel and have learned something about human nature, and what it means to make a sacrifice.<br />That said, I had to sit on this book for about a week after I finished it before I decided whether I liked it or not. In the end, I decided that, despite the genius that dominates much of the beginning and end, the novel is just too long and inconsequential to substantiate itself. In my opinion, Mr. Irving could have easily cut this novel directly in half; very little between pages 150-450 of this 617 tome is relevent to any character or situation involved in the story -- and worse yet, I didn't find the contents of these pages intrisically interesting, either. I didn't find anything interesting about Owen writing for the school newspaper (was that 50 pages? 100?) or critisizing the head of their private school for another 100. Those pages would have been far better spent investigating the identity of John's father and Owen's unconventional spirituality -- two themes which are almost forgotten in the bulk of the story, when they should rightfully take front stage center throughout. They don't deserve to be forgotten at any point in the story, let along for the bulk of it.<br />Mr. Irving also seems to bite off more than he can chew in his social commentary. Every once in a while, John (the narrator of the story) cuts to the present day, late 1980's, where he is single, a virgin, and living in Toronto. Mr. Irving's critisisms of the Reagan administration, told through John, are neither relevant to the story nor particular insightful -- given they happened 15 years ago. If they were relevant to the story, I could accept this, but the story is told in the 1970's. Irving offers social commentary there, as well -- which is within the confines of the story -- but would have done well not to stretch his agenda beyond that.<br />Otherwise, I don't know what to say. Some people might find Owen Meany interesting enough of a character to get around the story's low points. Even if not, it's still a novel worth reading. The characters are interesting and the moral is profound.<br />A Prayer for Owen Meany is an absolute must read for fans of Irving or people looking for a view into the workings of the divine. A unique vision of divine fatalism and faith adorns itself to every page, and it makes for quite a unique read.<br />Matty J	2003-01-20
US	44970789	R2CGHSILOIGFEM	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Weak Grisham despite its moral	The Street Lawyer, Grisham's ninth novel, takes us through the streets of Washington, where the homeless live seemingly without a care from the hyper-industrialized worship-the-allmighty-buck society they live in, and where a young lawyer in a top-notch firm has just been pulled by his conscience to serve the remainder of his lawyering days.<br />The Street Lawyer isn't, by any means, one of Grisham's best. There is a minimal of tension, no chases, no abundance of typical Grisham humour or absurdities. Where the novel succeeds is on a more educational plateau. It is, despite my criticisms, a scathing review of urban homeless aid and the politics that surround it. The initial dilemma, a group of poor tenants cast to the street as homeless squatters because of corporate greed, is a powerful one. This novel would be better, however, if Grisham had focused on that legal problem -- which carries its own obvious ramifications -- without feeding us the utterly ridiculous nonsense about a young lawyer growing a social conscience because he had a gun pointed at his head by a mentally-ill, drug-addicted homeless bum -- of all people. It really is, despite Grisham's best intentions, hard to sympathize with anybody who holds innocent people hostage because he has a bone to pick with the system.<br />As a result, this is one of the few Grisham \\"moral\\" novels which I've found genuinely preachy, and after reading the Runaway Jury and The Testament, that truly is saying a lot. I know Grisham intended well, but there are points where he is unrealistically idealistic. He makes it seem as though if we just threw money at them, the problem would go away. He meanwhile admits that many homeless people are drug-addicted prostitutes and pimps with a history of defiance and jail time -- their pain is self-caused. I'm all for social welfare, but society only has an obligation to help those who help it in return -- and make efforts to help themselves. I guess the moral of the story is that, had Mister been allowed to stay in his warehouse for an extra month, he wouldn't have become a drug-addicted, violent, mentally-ill, homeless social malcontent. Come on!<br />I'd recommend this to strong Grisham fans and people with an interest in social work. If you're looking to get into Grisham and don't know where to start, pick up The Rainmaker or A Painted House instead.<br />Matty J	2002-12-31
US	44970789	R1U9J6RLZA6XW0	0385508417	999720718	Skipping Christmas	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A wonderful light-hearted read	Someday we may see families curled up on couchs on Christmas Eve, the television for once turned off. Rather than watching It's A Wonderful Life or Miracle on 34th Street, they'll each have a copy of Skipping Christmas in their hands.<br />It took me a while to warm to this novel, but when I did, it was inescapably ensearing, and quite humourous. (It's rare for me to laugh out loud while reading a novel, but I certainly did with this one!) The story takes us into the lives of Luther and Nora Krank who have decided, for one year and one year only, they're going to skip Christmas all together. They've just sent their daughter away for a year with the Peace Corps, no family's around, and they'd frankly rather take a cruise than worry about buying gifts and decorating the house. In the end, they find skipping Christmas isn't as easy as they had envisioned.<br />As I said, it took me a while to warm to this story. The first half of the novel didn't really click with me. I got the feeling Grisham was just going through the motions, writing a weak satirization of Christmas commercialism, but it turns out he was just setting the stage for the rest of the story. So, while I understand this was part of the story as well, I can't give the story a full five because I felt he did fall into an uncustomary lull at the beginning. Still, this is a very worthy Grisham novel, and one that should brighten everyone's holiday spirits.<br />Recommended for everyone, especially if you like light-hearted Christmas fare.<br />Matty J	2002-12-30
US	44970789	R383MYDCU8LDX	0060920076	388683066	Affliction	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A strong look at alcoholism and child abuse	Russell Banks has crafted a strong story about the effects of alcoholism on children. The story follows Wade, a divorced father of a single pre-teen daughter. The mother, however - his high school sweetheart, whom he had married, and divorced, on two separate occasions - has custody and has since moved to another town; Wade only gets to see her once a month, and on Halloween. Wade goes about his life as the local policeman all the while longing for the good old days, and wondering what could have been, and how he can get them back. Eventually, he hatches a scheme, and talks to a lawyer. Slowly, events unfold which shape the future in different ways: a funeral which brings the family together again; the accidental death of a visiting hunter, which Wade thinks is suspicious; a looming marriage which threatens to bring back his old ways; etc. Through everything, the reader is getting a look into Wade's past, the abuse he and his brothers and sister suffered at the hands of their father, and how eerily close Wade seemed to be getting to following in his own father's footsteps.<br />Affliction is a very strong look at alcoholism and behavioral similarities through generations - the effects which are transmitted from father to son without even realizing it. We do as we have had done to us, not what we wish would have been done to us, or so it seems. The relationship between Wade and his family is clearly defined, and the interactions between them are always revealing, especially when his sister and family comes back for the funeral. The family interaction is some of the best I've read.<br />There are little trouble points: the novel is long, and several chapters feel unnecessarily slow; the point of view the story is told from (Wade's brother) is awkward at points, especially when he has to explain how he knows things about the story he's telling - it would have been easier just to tell it from a third person point of view; and then ending a little unresolved - I don't know why, but I wanted a little more resolution.<br />Overall, though, Affliction is still a powerful look at family life and the long-term effects of poor parenting. It's a vicious cycle, but Banks would have us believe there is some hope, as the story is told from the point of view of a brother who continually asks why Wade had to be the failure in the family rather than him. Why had he been able to break the cycle? Why wasn't he in Wade's position, or Wade in his?<br />The novel offers no clear answers.<br />Matty J	2002-12-29
US	44970789	R3M49BL9IDOK0C	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent	Wow. Looks like I'm in the minority. At the risk of disillusioning everyone, I'll become the second person in the first three pages of reviews I read to give it a perfect 5 out of 5.<br />The story is, on the surface a fairly simple one. Two brothers, Ray - a law professor - and Forrest - a recovery alcoholic in between jobs - are summoned home by their father, an old and ailing retired Judge in Mississippi. When they get home, they find him dead, and Ray finds over $3 million hidden in the house - odd indeed, considering his father's by-the-books way of dealing with life and his past generosity to charities, which has left his bank account nearly dry. The story follows Ray as he attemptings to find the source of this money, wondering who he can trust, and envisioning himself with a new house and a bigger plane to fly around in.<br />This story, unlike most of his recent works, takes several twists which left me guessing and, on the whole, satisfied. This isn't, say, the Testament or the Partner, where you know in the end that everything is going to work out just peachy from the beginning, and it's just a matter of how the story gets there. I was with Ray the whole time, wondering what I would do in his situation, wondering where the money came from, wondering how he was going to get out of several situations. As a reader, that's all I can ask for. I read this novel in a day. I couldn't set it down. And by the end, I was still pondering over the message. For his moral works (The Testament, A Painted House, etc.), it's among his best, because it's not cut and dry. There's one side of the ending, and then there's the other. It was left pleasantly unresolved -- pleasantly in that the reader can still think about it and what they would have done long after the story's done.<br />If you trust anybody from such a strong minority as this, I say read this book. It's not Grisham's best, but he's given me plenty of reason to believe he can still write.<br />Matty J	2002-12-29
US	44970789	R2D8YLAGO0R96I	0151008116	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Outstanding	Life of Pi tells the story of an Indian boy, Piscene (Pi), the son of a zoo owner, who becomes stranded on a lifeboat with a Bengal tiger after a shipwreck which kills, among others, his entire family.<br />I don't think there's any way to describe the story further than that. It has to be read to be understood. Read it!<br />In the end, the story is more than simply a story of overcoming the odds or unusual circumstances. Finishing this novel is like having your eyes opened to a new aspect of humanity. I tend to take a more philosophical mindview, so I wasn't overly swayed by the book's claim that it can make you believe in God (we should always believe what we feel to be true, not what makes us most comfortable, in my opinion), but the book is a searing look at human savagery - and more importantly, how we deal with it. The book's metaphors run deep, although I know I'm going to have to read this novel again to fully grasp them all.<br />And don't be intimidated by the book's lofty spiritual claims. This is not a theological book - it's simply a book about how one boy comes to view the world. Faith is used in a liberal spiritualistic sense, not a religious one.<br />All in all, this is a book not to be missed.<br />Matty J	2002-12-29
US	44970789	R3G7ZQCHGAUQ86	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good Grisham	The Partner tells the story of Patrick Lanigan, an ex-partner at a firm who has been on the run for four and a half years after faking his own death in a car wreck and stealing $90 million from his law firm. The story picks up with Patrick being caught in Brazil, and the fun begins as the reader is slowly drawn into Lanigan's world, before and after his \\"death\\".<br />This is a strong novel, although not among Grisham's best. It's interesting to see the ways in which the legal system are manipulated, and which deals are struck and how, even if there is little doubt from a hundred pages on as to what kind of person Patrick is -- and therefore how the questions about his past are going to be answered. Patrick also seems a little too smart to be bought at face value (DNA tests of his daughter? bugging his own office?), but I guess novels are, at heart, romanicized reality at best. The Partner doesn't fully investigate everybody's fantasy of taking a vast amoung of money and running to an exotic locale, but it comes close. When all the facts are laid on the table, you'll wonder whether you would have done things any differently. And, as always, this Grisham is an easy and fast read.<br />Very enjoyable.<br />Matty J	2002-12-29
US	44970789	R2X7VPITP9ZAWR	0312973055	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Poorly plotted, poorly written	I'm guessing, as others have, that Gayle Lynds did most of the writing with this one. Not that I've read anything else by Gayle Lynds, but Ludlum seems so much superior to this. I'm hoping so, anyway.<br />There aren't very many redeeming factors to this book. Most of the writing is very, very laboured. I could see the writer(s) trying to dig for the most dramatic way to put things, and the most dramatic circumstances, even if they would never happen. It never felt really natural. The relationship and loss, which is described on the backcover, is an over-drawn cliche that left me shaking my head. They knew they needed the relationship to be a strong, lovey-dovey type to make the suffering and loss seem real, but they never let the relationship develop on its own. It was just a gimmick. Similarly, there's a conflicted character who reallly baffled me. He's made a conscious decision to take part in a plan that could forseeably kill millions and millions of people, but finally sees the light when he realizes one of his former friends would be affected. WHAT???? You didn't think, with *millions* of people dying, that it *might* get personal???<br />They really force it. As they do the plot, which takes a few turns, but never really takes off. There are many cliches and few genuine surprises. With how many times this plot (big company starts epidemic, sells cure for big bucks) has to replicated in the past few years (MI2, multiple video games, Tom Clancy novels, etc.), there needs to be some new insight into it. This novel does not even come close to offering it.<br />As far as the prose goes, any novel that can get away with saying \\"Some madman . . . decided to play God. Or Satan, if you will\\" just isn't worth reading.<br />Pick up \\"The Bourne Identity\\". It's much much better overall. But, if you're looking for a fast-paced if cliched and occasionally groan-inducing read, you could do worse than this one.<br />Matty J	2002-08-31
US	44970789	R2AF2IZ76C1MQ3	044023722X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of Grisham's best	I was pleasantly surprised with this novel which is, so far as I know, Grisham's first attempt at non-courtroom-centred drama. The story is told from the perspective of Luke Chandler, a 7-year-old living with his parents and grandparents on their Arkansan cotton farm in the early 1950s. To help with the harvest, two groups of people, Mexicans and Hill People, live with the Chandlers over the summer. The story follows Luke as he watches the big world unfold around him. There's a murder, a fatherless baby, a seductive young girl, a carnival, church every Sunday - all the fixings for a great read, really. Pure Americana.<br />I absolutely loved this book. It had just the right tone for me. It was observational, and never came across as one-sided or preachy. The book is made up of little observations, about church (why do the church members pray for the soul of a man they knew was going to hell?), crop-farming, lying, parenting and family in general (the family structure is fabulous - the characters are great), all the good stuff. From the first page, I felt as though I had entered Luke's world, where cotton farming, church on Sunday and weekly trips to town are just a part of life, and where Cardinals baseball is larger than life itself.<br />You can debate all you want about whether this book is about the costs of lying or justice or whatever else you want, but the book's really about Luke's dreams. Nothing more and nothing less. If you don't think so, just read the last line again. I found it ended exactly where I wanted to. The only issue I really wanted to see resolved was Ricky's return home, but that's neither here nor there.<br />This book is certainly worth a read, for Grisham fans and non-Grisham fans (who will be happy to find not a single lawyer or courtroom) alike. In the end, it's just a slice of life story - no huge moral or life-shattering event - but Grisham's uncanny ability to write concise prose, natural dialogue and - especially - grasp the view point of child make this a well-told and thoughtful read.<br />Matty J	2002-08-28
US	44970789	R1JT7GGTZ6DLYK	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Very good	I tell you, Thomas Harris can write a good book.<br />In Red Dragon, the prequel (although also written before, not as an gimmick afterward) to Silence of the Lambs, we follow Will Graham, a former FBI agent brought back to investigate a serial killer who chooses suburban families as his victims. He's also famous for being the man who caught Hannibal Lecter, who also gets a bit part in this story (not nearly as extensive as Silence or Hannibal).<br />I thought I'd be disappointing with the fact that Hannibal isn't in this novel as much as Silence (although he makes the most of his limited time, for sure), but this is offset by a nearly equally interesting villain in Dolarhyde. Whereas Buffalo Bill plays second-fiddle to Lecter through much of Silence, Dolarhyde steals the show. We really get to see the factors that have molded his thinking and the way they conflict with each other within himself. And he's an interesting villain in himself. On several occasions Thomas steps into Dolarhyde's mind in everyday occurrances. What does a serial killer think when he's on a date? Driving a car? It's a fascinating look at a fascinating character. He's not quite Lecter, but he more than carries this story.<br />The plot was also a very pleasant surprise. There are enough twists to keep the story from ever becoming a standard copper/killer story. It delves right into the minds of the characters and I found it took me to some places I'd never been and never thought I'd go. It was surprising (and shocking) until the very last page.<br />Otherwise, the dialogue is crisp, the characters are rich, and the prose is superb. In comparison to The Silence of the Lambs, I would just simply say that they're in the same league, if that says something. It's almost an insult to the other to pick a favourite. They're both must reads.<br />Matty J	2002-08-28
US	44970789	R3KS6E5X2SCB56	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic King, but not his best	I picked this book up last week because, as a life-long King fan, there's no book that stands out on the bookshelf more than this 1100 page epic. Mammoth in scope and length, it was one of King's first, and one of his most beloved. Set in 1990 (futuristic for when it was written, 1978), The Stand tells the story of an ensemble of people - Larry Underwood, a musician; Franny Goldsmith, a pregnant woman; Stu Redman, a southerner; Nick Andros, a deaf-mute; and many more - as they deal with a man-made plague that whipes out 99% of the world's population. The survivors are summoned together in two groups - by Mother Abigail in Boulder, and by Randall Flagg in Las Vegas - for a final showdown between good and evil.<br />I liked a lot in the book, but I liked the smaller things. I liked Frannie's introduction, and the struggles she has with her unwanted pregnancy before the plague. I liked Larry's struggles to appease his mother after having left her to pursue stardom. I liked Harold's identity crisis, and the way I was never quite sure whether he was siding with the good guys or the bad guys, or where he would end up. Every character has a story, *is* a story, and seems somehow real. It's a quality few writers has mastered as thoroughly as Stephen King.<br />And I liked the fact that Stephen, like always, didn't shy away from having these stories potentially cut short and incomplete by disaster. Let's face it folks - sometimes stuff happens and life doesn't give us the answers we were looking for, and nobody recognizes that quite like Stephen King. It's meant to make you upset that there is no resolution to the conflicts introduced before the plague: there was no resolution for the characters, and that's reality. (He excels also in showing the potential sex frustration of people in this apocalyptic setting. It may be unsettling to some, but I couldn't deny how *real* I thought it felt. I imagined myself in those people's positions, and I began to wonder what I would do .. .)<br />But the BIG issues aren't as deep as you might want (in my opinion, anyhow). There isn't really any insight into what composes \\"good\\" and \\"evil\\", why some people choose one, while others go the other way. (The best commentary on this comes from Harold's inner struggles, which is one thing I would have liked to have seen resolved.) Other than that, everything just simple *is* good or evil, and we're never allowed to speculate as to *why* this is. And, surprisingly given the premise, there is very little insight into man's ability to destroy itself, no look at what we've done commentary. It's not The Chrysalis, where you're continually wondering *how* this could happen. You just sort of accept that it has happened, by some fluke accident, and humanity has moved on to its next conflict. So, if you're looking for something profound on that level (as I was) . . . well, you're probably not going to get it. Maybe I missed the \\"point\\", as it were (although King admits in On Writing that even he didn't think there really was one), but I didn't feel any more inspired about the issues of good, evil, destruction, etc., after having read this story. It's just a story.<br />And what makes this story good, if overlong, is the characters. The story seems at times just like a vessel for them. It's almost like King just arbitrarily picked the apocalyse as the setting so he could get Stu Redman, Harold Lauder and Frannie Goldsmith together and depending on each other. Or Nick Andros and Tom Cullen, the mute Nick needing to write things down to communicate, and Tom unable to read. These are the interesting struggles, and they're the ones that form the crux of the story.<br />Welcome to the twisted mind of Stephen King. Characters are what he does best, and this is exemplified with this work.<br />Matty J	2002-08-22
US	44970789	R257B04BS3C1M6	0312983654	246059244	The Wire in the Blood (Dr. Tony Hill & Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Occasionally gritty, but predictable and cliched	I picked this novel up at a cheap booksale, so it's hard to be bitter for buying it. The premise involves a celebrity, Jack Vance, who on cross-country promotional trips happens to take teenage girls, rape and kill them. Nobody links these missing girls together until Shaz Bowman, of the National Profiling Task Force, correlates these disappearances with Vance's publicity stunts. It's her job to convince everybody else of what she already knows - Jack is a serial killer.<br />I must admit - I'm unfamiliar with Val's other work, so if clarifying information happened to be in the prequel, The Mermaids Singing, I'm sorry for having missed it. Still, I was thoroughly unimpressed with this novel, for a number of reasons:<br />1) Predictability. Beyond about page 150 (where a major, thoroughly unexpected event, and only truly gritty point in the novel, in my opinion), I was not once surprised or intrigued with anything that happened. I knew they were going to chase this guy. I knew what he had done. I knew they were going to catch him. As much as I was hoping there would be there was not a single plot twist or unexpected turn after this point. The conflicts they encounter along the way (disbelieving superior officers, etc.) seem just there to disguise how predictable the plot is becoming. It didn't fool me. And I doubt it will you, either. You can predict the plot fully after 150 pages. No kidding.<br />2) Surprise surprise: the good guys are always right, the bad guys always wrong. It's a formula - if a sympathetic character says it, it's correct. And I'm not talking about the main dilemma, either. It applies there, of course (Shaz' theory is correct), but also to a parallel arson case the group is pursuing. In other words - the good guys are just too good (which leaves little room for moral conflict, unfortunately). I didn't believe any of it. And I doubt you will, either.<br />3) The bad guy is too sloppy. I know he's a sociopath and all, but Tony Hill gets all of hisclues from . . . well . . . from the bad guy! He's caught in his own lies repeatedly, and leaves one of his murders open for investigation. If he was intent on not getting caught, he wouldn't display his kills! It's that simple. But then Val wouldn't have a novel, so . . .<br />I must say, though, that Val's writing is very good. She has a good style, and she excels as graphic descriptions, which are occasionally gut-wrenching. This novel also offers interest commentary on sham marriages. Best part of the novel, in my opinion.<br />I'd recommend a novel in this one's place, but I haven't read any of her other work. If you want a look into the mind of a sociopath that is actually unpredictable and uncliched, pick up The Silence of the Lambs, but I don't think I needed to tell anybody that.<br />...	2002-08-14
US	44970789	R82XUE9DC3YI0	0553260111	561287091	The Bourne Identity (Bourne Trilogy No.1)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Very good spy thriller	After finishing this novel, I promptly ran out and picked up The Hades Factor. This was surprising for me, considering I don't normally care for spy novels - I've tried to read LeCarre, and, to my knowledge, have never actually managed to finish one. I guess that's some sort of bar as to whether the novel's any good or not.<br />The plot is simple at first, but grows more complicated as the twists and turns continue. The main character, who we later learn is named Jason Bourne (I hope that's no spoiler), washes up in the Mediterranean Sea and has no memory. He's not without his gifts, though. He is fully trained with weapons of all sorts and has military-like reflexes. He acts without thinking. The novel follows him closely as he wanders instinctively into the world and tries to find out who he is. At every stop, somebody is hunting him. He needs to find out why. (I hope I'm not saying too much in disclosing that he will eventually tied in with a network of assassins, who compete for supremacy.)<br />I found the novel worked on several levels for me. I particularly liked the moral dilemmas Mr. Bourne had to go through early in the novel, when he's just finding out who he is (or was). He has people he doesn't know firing at him - does he fire back? how does he know they're bad? He has to take a hostage to stay alive, but how far should he go? He doesn't know what he's done, what he's wanted for - is it worth killing an innocent bystander for? And, of course, what if, in his past life he actually had deserved to be killed? Could he risk bringing somebody into his world knowing this?<br />There are also issues with loyalty and personal loss. Even in the extreme distress of their situations, the characters are able to dig for deeper meaning, in people's eyes, and in their hearts. It isn't all guns and politics. I found the loyalties between some of the characters very touching, as when Marie St. Jacques stands by Jason because he saves her - even thought he'd previouslyheld a gun to her head.<br />Of course, there is the standard fair share of shooting and running and all-round suspense. At every turn, there's something forcing Jason to keep his wits about him and make impulse decisions. It all makes for a great read.<br />Matty J	2002-08-13
US	44970789	R3F8BWY8JBGITV	0440221471	692576280	The Runaway Jury	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Middle-of-the-line Grisham	My distinct impression after finishing this novel was, \\"Meh\\".<br />Overall, the premise of this is worthwhile, I think, and certainly explores the little guy vs. the corporation theme developed earlier in The Rainmaker (a far, far superior novel) in greater detail. Here, we are treated with the actions and thoughts of a jury which has to decide whether a cigarette manufacturer is responsible for the death of a woman's husband, who died of lung cancer. There is corruption, deceit, moral questioning, and a few twists along the way, and you'll begin to wonder, as I did, whether Nicolas Easter is a little bit too smart to be who he says he is.<br />While I did find this premise interesting, and I did learn a little bit about the industry and smoking in general (although, unfortunately, these facts are present, by and large, in boring courtroom fashion), I found this novel lacking in the more pivotal areas:<br />1) There are no really sympathetic characters. Nicholas Easter is certainly the central character, but he's only an enigma, whose past and present are presented to us mainly through the personal digging of the cigarette manufacturer's lawyers. He's not as easy to relate to as Rudy Bayloy or Mitchell McDeere. His motivations are a mystery until the end, rather the propulsion for the story, which I think they should be.<br />2) The victim, unfortunately, is never a part of the story. No victims are. Where as the kid dying of leukemia was very easy to relate to in the Rainmaker, we see nobody suffering from tobacco-related illnesses within the action story here; we just hear about it. That's all right for an essay, but if you're trying to make a point with a novel, with a story, I sort of expect to have an opportunity to become emotionally attached to the situation. I'm sorry, but I wasn't.<br />3) Sadly, the story takes place largely in a courtroom, moreso than any other Grisham I've read. This may work for some people; it didn't for me. There are very few side stories or breaks, or personal matters, or external character development. It's very much to do with an attack on the tobacco industry, and little more.<br />4) There is an unfortunate lacking of quirky characters. There isn't the snippy judge from The Client, or the homoerotic Senator from The Pelican Brief, or the aspiring-Governor lawyer from A Time To Kill. I guess there is the agnostic nude juror who objects to the church service - but that's about it.<br />I find it interesting - and it's not even a critisism - that the last two Grisham novels I've read, A Time To Kill and this one, I've actually disagreed with. The point, as it were, the resolution between the moral and legal conflicts - well, I would have gone the other way. But I commend Mr. Grisham for making me think about these things. It's something not a lot of novels can do.<br />Still, I'd recommend picking up The Rainmaker or The Client rather than this one.<br />Matty J	2002-08-13
US	44970789	R31J1UF598T91O	0440213525	282981210	The Client	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of Grisham's very best	Okay, I'm not a completely qualified Grisham fan having only read half (six) of his novels, but this one ranks near the top of my list, anyway, just below the sensational The Rainmaker and slightly above The Pelican Brief. I imagine this book will stay the near the top of that list for quite some time.<br />I found the book good on several levels. The plot is simplistic, but one of those \\"what if\\" scenarios that I'm sure many writers had thought about before but never voices. What if a child overheard important information in a criminal case and refused - for whatever reason - not to tell. In this case, that child is Mark Sway, an eleven-year-old trailor-trash type with a single mother who struggles to make ends meet for Mark and his eight-year-old brother Ricky. Mark and Ricky stumble across a man on the verge of committing suicide, try to save him, and the man spills the beans on why he's committing suicide - he's the lawyer of a much-sought and dangerous Mafia man who's hidden the body of a dead senator. The lawyer tells Mark where the body is and then proceeds to kill himself, just as he'd intended to long ago.<br />Perhaps what I liked about this book so much was that the main character wasn't a lawyer. Usually, Grisham's novels (at least the one's I've read) have had a lawyer as the main character, and it's told through a lawyers eyes. Here, we see everything with a child's innocence. Mark may be very mature for his age (having helped his mother file for divorce from his abusive father, among other things), but he still has that inner child that adds something to every scene - the questioning about whether to lie or not, the regret afterwards, the thoughts of his mother and his brother (who went into shock after seeing the suicide) and wishing he was back on a playground where things were simple, even the more mature thoughts of who he could trust. It's very easy to care for this child. I was with him the entire way.<br />The Client kept me interested. It wasn't predictable. Many of the scenes were quite funny, actually. Grisham develops fantastic dynamics between several of the parties involve - Reggie and the FBI, Harry the Judge and the FBI, even the mob members don't get along. And it doesn't dwell too much on the legal aspect of it, I'm sure everyone'll be happy to hear, and whenever it is used, it's brought down the child's level. Still, assuming Grisham actually knows what he's talking about, I did learn a little bit about the \\"system\\", as I would hope to from a novel that uses it. But it's only there to propel the stories and the characters forward.<br />Overall, I recommend this to any Grisham or non-Grisham fan out there. I started reading The Rainmaker last summer thinking I would set it down within half an hour, but I ended up finishing it in under a week. I'm not normally a fan of legal thrillers, but he's a fabulous, concise and easy-to-read author who has a knack for creating original and compassionate characters. Every once in a while you'll find a good moral, too, although he never preaches it to you. For this novel: Watch you say.	2002-07-23
US	44970789	R1BH6AR5G9M38I	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Objectivism exposed	This is a worthwhile novel for anybody interested in either philosophy or political science. The characters, ideas, circumstances, and events are ultimately dictated by Ayn Rand's philosophy life, which she titled Objectivism - basically summed up as conservatism (er, capitalism, I guess), epistemism and egoism. As a vessel for these philosophies (as I prefer to think of them as several philosophies rather than a singlular one), this novel is fascinating, capitivating and fully released. When you finish, there will be no question in your mind as to what Objectivism is, what its tenets are or why Ayn Rand feels these stances are important for the human race to adopt.<br />This novel has been critisized for being too black and white in its presentation of political philosophies, which it very much is, but I feel that's rather by design. How else could she fully explore her stance but to choose the most vehement opposition as the antagonist? It may be a fault of the philosophy itself that she doesn't believe there is a middle ground (come on, Mrs. Rand . . .), but I can't fault the book as it presents her philosophy fully and without relenting (for the entire 1069 pages of my copy). But, if you don't like having somebody tell you what they want you to think, pass on this one. If you're willing to sift through what she's saying, please, enjoy.<br />Naturally, some things bugged me, and I wouldn't recommend this novel to anyone who isn't open to alternate viewpoints (and I'm guessing that there aren't too many people who subscribe to Ayn Rand's philosophy on life - at least I hope not).<br />Firstly, the connections she makes between capitalism and egoism are tenuous, at best, which plagued my mind throughout. She treats it as an implied truth that, since society functions best (in her opinion) when industries are allowed to be selfish within their economical limits, that individuals should be selfish in their every day lives. It was about the time when Mrs. Rand depicted a child being slapped in the face by a complete stranger for giving a toy to a lesser-privileged child that I realized something was wrong. The philosophy looks good in one circle, but who's going to defend people being critisized and abused for altruism? Mrs. Rand, I think you need to you check your premises. (And, of course, the problem with her philosophy in this case is that she doesn't allow for a middle ground - she assumes any altruism will lead to utilitarianism, but it doesn't. All or nothing. Not true. You can be altruistic/selfish within limits.)<br />Secondly, I found her egoistical stance interesting because it seemed to be based entirely more on the humanistic concept of self-actualization than the typical idea about the pleasure principle, which isn't brought up at all, curiously enough. Mrs. Rand assumes the highest good one can achieve for themselves comes from achieving their own selfish ends, usually embodied by material success, e.g. wealth, notoriety, etc. She never addresses the far more pertinent moral question of where people should draw the line. Are we allowed to kill if it will serve our own selfish gain? I'm curious as to how anyone can form or present a moral stance without addressing *that* question; it's the largest problem plaguing egoism today (and I assume also in 1957, when she wrote the book).<br />I think the philosophy buffs will particularly enjoy the radio speech towards the end of the novel. I had been warned before reading that section that it was deadly and overlong, that some readers even skipped the chapter entirely, but I found myself glued to the pages as soon as I got there. It was the first place where Ayn Rand really got to deliver her philosophy on something other than economics and the vague connection she made between than and selfishness as a moral principle. Welcome to the mind of Ayn Rand, and enjoy.	2002-07-22
US	44970789	R1RS2KRA82YEB7	0385333870	197148998	Galapagos: A Novel (Delta Fiction)	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Is this the real Vonnegut I keep hearing about?	As a first time Vonnegut reader, I've got to say that I'm deeply disappointed. Mind you, I do intend to read more of his working, having received a more specific list of his better works from my dad.<br />The idea of this novel, I suppose, is interesting, but it's neither compelling enough to fill the reader's imagination for 300 pages as a story or a concept. The chronology is completely abstract. There is no protagonist, or antagonist. No relatable characters at all, now that I look back. Vonnegut even admits that the only enemy in the novel is humankind's big brains, but this isn't embodied at any point in the novel. There is no Hitler-esque type 'big-brained' person with which to drive this farcical point home, just broad speculation about the harm lies and such have done the human race. It reads like a mock textbook. There isn't any great personal experience to drive this point home, no face-off between big-brained and small-brained, just little tidbits here and there about man's actions in contrast to evolutionary theory. Very abstract, and as a result, impersonal.<br />The biggest disappointment here is how poorly I feel this story is told. It's abstract when it doesn't even need to be. Vonnegut adds asteriks before the names of the next person to die, which is both unnecessary and distracting. He even made me so detached from the characters of the story, citing their big brains as huge evolutionary mistakes over and over again, that I didn't care at all about them, even in a superficial sense, when they died or mated.<br />Perhaps this was the intent -- to distract the reader from the more sentimental, emotional and real ideals of man in place of strictly evolutionary ones -- but in that case he should have re-enforced man's need for sentiment even more, as to draw some sort of contrast. As it is, it's just a meaningless read.<br />However, as I've said, I do intent to read more Vonnegut. Bring on &quot;Sirens of Titan&quot;.<br />Matty J	2001-03-12
US	44970789	R3VPI4G9HXJHIL	0670260770	497098217	The Dead Zone	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great read, although not as universal as it could have been	I've always been a Stephen King fan, and this novel ranks right up there on my favourites list. The main character, Johnny Smith, is very strong and is given relatable and lengthy characterization. The format is also quite good. King allows the piece to fall as they may, showing hints of things to come, but never giving too much away. Early in the novel we're introduced to a lightning rod salesman at a bar, but this isn't pivotal until a great deal later (between 250 and 300 pages later, actually). And pivotal is it.<br />Two things that bugged me, though. King sometimes seems to foreshadow way too much. I know it's just his style -- as I've seen this used in all of his great books, particularly &quot;Eyes of the Dragon&quot;, my favourite of his -- and I don't generally mind it too much, but he'll often end several consecutive chapters with clear indication of what happens in the next. In a society that dwells on cliffhangers to keep on reading, I suppose that is one of the reasons he's so popular, but I personally would prefer him allowing the story to tell itself rather than having to end chapters by telling us that the main characters would not meet for another four years. Sure, it gets the reader's interest, but only if the reader's supposed to be uninterested in the first place.<br />Also, the ending fails to be as universal as it could have been. I loved the questions it raises about assassination, but by having Johnny unsuccessful, King fails to keep the question on a real level, something that could be used in consideration of Lincoln or JFK. If Johnny had succeeded without the speculation, notes and scandals associated with it all afterwords, it would have kept the motives mysterious, something which real life assassins are in many cases.<br />Matty J	2001-03-04
