US	44988496	R2AR1O4R4RT435	0963319906	734855906	Super Slow: The Ultimate Exercise Protocol	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Misconceptions abound	1.  Most studies claiming to debunk Super Slow are nonsense.  A new Super Slow trainee, or someone particularly elderly or frail uses as many as 10 repetitions per exercise - over 3 minutes of time.  For normal adults, once they are comfortable with Super Slow, repetition numbers go way down, to 2-4 repetitions for most upper body exercises and 3-6 repetitions for most lower body exercises.  Virtually every study claiming to disprove the effectiveness of Super Slow kept the trainees on 10 repetitions per exercise the entire time.  The studies disprove a technique no healthy Super Slow trainees use past the second week.    2.  On Super Slow, you should be using about as much resistance as you use on a traditional strength training workout.  A traditional strength training set is 10 repetitions at a speed of 2 seconds up and 2 seconds down per repetition.  That's 40 seconds per working set.  2-4 Super Slow repetitions, at 10 seconds up and 10 seconds down, is 40-80 seconds, or at most twice as much time.  At that pace, if you could handle 100 pounds at 10 reps of 2/2 you should be able to handle 100 pounds for 3 reps of 10/10.    3.  The 10 seconds up, 10 seconds down guideline is not a magic number.  You can use any slow speed you like, as long as you are consistent.    4.  Ken Hutchins never advocated working your heart to failure and does NOT disregard cardiovascular fitness.  A typical Super Slow workout is maybe 15 minutes of constant, demanding work done in 20-25 minutes of total time.  You will finish breathing hard with your pulse pounding. It is the ultimate cardiovascular circuit exercise routine, much more time efficient and less damaging to your joints than jogging or other aerobic exercise.      I've been strength training for over 15 years now.  In college, between martial arts and four months of lifting weights for 6 hours per week I gave myself overuse injuries in my shoulders and knee.  I've tried everything, including Mike Mentzer's books, Arnold Schwarzennegger's Bodybuilding Bible, Stuart McRobert's Beyond Brawn, Sisco and Little's Power Factor Training, routines from Men's Health, Flex, and Muscle & Fitness magazines - you name it.  Super Slow (and its cousins Slow Burn and Power of 10) are the ONLY form of exercise I can handle for more than two months without having those pains flare up with a vengeance and force me to quit.  I've done Super Slow for years without the slightest ache except for normal muscle soreness.    However, I do have a criticism of the book.  Hutchins advocates training to muscular failure and exercising twice per week or in some cases less.  In my own experience, I've gotten better strength gains and muscle growth by stopping short of muscular failure and exercising three times per week or more.	2004-12-11
US	44988496	R1MKBB0G2Q59FF	0874313724	573219264	The D6 System: The Customizable Roleplaying Game	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A very good do-it-yourself RPG toolkit, but not an RPG	The D6 System: The Customizable Roleplaying Game is a relatively small book crammed to the hilt with suggestions for building your own roleplaying game in any setting you imagine - fantasy adventures in the tradition of Conan or Lord of the Rings, vampire hunters, vampires, Star Wars, and much more. (The original Star Wars Roleplaying Game from the same publisher used a flavor of these rules.) <br /> <br />The core game mechanic is simple.  Abilities like Strength, Intelligence, Agility, etc... are given a rating which is measured according to the number of 6 sided dice you roll when using that ability.  1D (meaning 1 six sided die) is the minimum, 2D is the the human average, and 4D is the the human maximum.  Skills are added to the relevant attribute, for instance a mathematics skill might be added to intellect.  A person with Intelligence 2D and 1D in mathematics would roll 3D when attempting a mathematical skill-related task.  The highest possible rating in most games would be a 12D, meaning that the character has the best in the world performance in that particular skill. <br /> <br />Additionally, a skill or ability can have one or two 'pips' added to it.  For example, 2D+2 means roll two six sided dice and add 2 to the total. <br /> <br />The whole game is based around this core mechanic.  For instance, when you hit a foe with a weapon, damage is your Strength rating plus the damage rating of the weapon minus your opponent's Toughness rating minus your opponent's armor and shield ratings.   <br /> <br />There are rules for multiple actions, spell systems, psionics, and a host of other ideas.   <br /> <br />That said, there is a serious lack of concrete examples, an even more serious lack of sample characters and monsters, and the mechanics for physical combat need some tweaking.  If you don't mind tinkering on your own, you can massage the game to fit any criteria you like and have a good time.   It is not, unfortunately, something you can just pick up and start playing.	2004-12-10
US	44988496	R26CQ63X5DYCMD	0953998088	226018327	Turjans Tome	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An excellent add-on for the Dying Earth RPG	Turjan's Tome is an add-on for Pelgrane Press's superb Dying Earth RPG, set in Jack Vance's mythical distant future, where technology is forgotten, magic is common, and most of humanity has reverted to selfishness in the face of the impending end of the Sun.   <br /> <br />The Dying Earth Roleplaying Game main rulebook, which has all of the core rules, focuses primarily on playing games with characters like Cugel, who are more lucky than skillful.  The focus there is primarily on creativity and comic mishaps of the characters, in their a never ending quest for more prestige, wealth, and debauchery.  <br /> <br />Turjan's tome demonstrates the flexibility of the rule set by being much more serious.  Characters like Turjan are much more straightforward and motivated, better at avoiding pointless arguments, quite capable of defending themselves in combat and able to wield potent magic.  This book brings some of the desirable game concepts from more traditional roleplaying games into the Dying Earth without losing the spirit of the Dying Earth setting or the superbly simple conflict resolution mechanic of Pelgrane's masterful game. <br /> <br />The book provides suggestions for the creation of Turjan characters, four broadly stereotyped sample characters that can be customized for player use, a list of new and sometimes comical  magic items, a sort of Narrator checklist of game goals, and many new spells.  There's also a short list of suggested reading for people seeking source material, or just entertained by what they've found in the game.   <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book.	2004-08-25
US	44988496	RQLRWUSG3M3XG	0345461517	764534415	The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian: The Original Adventures of the Greatest Sword and Sorcery Hero of All Time!	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Unedited, visceral, superb	&quot;The Coming of Conan the Cimmerian&quot; marks the first unedited printing of some of Robert Howard's Conan stories in a long while - maybe since they first appeared in magazines over 70 years ago. <br /> For anyone seeking some enjoyable adventure stories, this book is worth its weight in gold. <br />  <br /> The stories are presented in the order published, and not the chronological order of Conan's life. The reader is so fully immersed he hears the screams, smells the gore, and sometimes even ducks a passing blow. Howard is both incredibly descriptive and economical with his writing; thirty pages of Conan will make your blood sing and your heart race more than two hours of the best Hollywood blockbuster. <br />  <br /> The Conan feature films, while enjoyable in their own right, do the character a grave disservice. Schwarzenegger's Conan is powerful but lumbering, clean cut and shaven, and a team player. Howard's Conan has blinding speed, panther reflexes, and animal cunning to match his crushing strength. He is fiercely independent and a skilled leader, but his appeal comes from an untamed and savage charisma that has none of the softness of civilized men.  <br />  <br /> Unfortunately, Howard was probably sexist and certainly racist. However, this doesn't invalidate the quality of his writing any more than sexism or racism in writers nullifies the value of Greek philosophy or the US Constitution. If you can look past those admittedly serious flaws, you may just find some of the most exciting fiction ever written.	2004-07-23
US	44988496	RO49HNWQTW9YN	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Interesting, but slow and a little unfocused	\\"Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul\\" tells of Tony Hendra's lifelong friendship with a Benedictine monk, which was started in his teens after he was caught in adultery with a married woman.      Father Joe is the unconditionally loving, always accepting, always happy to help parent that all of us wish we had. He doesn't interrupt to make his point. He doesn't condemn anyone. He never asks why when Tony fails to write or visit or be a better person. Amazingly, even before the Church council of Vatican II he considers sexual sins to be more mistakes than grievous wrongs. I was drawn in by his simple and loving nature, and I even cried when I read of his death.      But the book does have flaws. The second half contains most of the thorough explanations of Father Joe's behavior and thoughts. For much of the first half the reader can only see the affect he has on Tony without knowing why he makes him feel that way.      The book also devotes most of the text to Tony Hendra's life. While the reader needs background context to understand the dialog between Tony and Father Joe, we get much more of the former than we need and a lot less of the latter than we want.	2004-07-22
US	44988496	R1GZAYE7FU29YE	0743471679	195382347	War of Honor (A Honor Harrington Novel)	Books	1	5	6	N	N	The first poor Honor Harrington book	This is the latest book in Weber's previously superb Honor Harrington series, detailing her military career.  It picks up four years after the previous book.  I thoroughly enjoyed every previous book in this series and would rate all of them four or five stars.  <br />This book is much more slow paced, predictable, and frustrating than the rest of the ones in the series.  Having read the previous books, I could predict most of the ending of the story just by reading the back cover.  I was especially disappointed that Weber relies upon the rather weak plot point that one diplomat in a key position obfuscates information to start a war.  I would hope that the chain of communication in any government is not that vulnerable to subversion.<br />My advice is to skip it.  I won't be reading any more Harrington stories unless the reviews are positively glowing.	2003-11-21
US	44988496	RAWQ4PCOFGKHM	9963616062	814444273	Beyond Brawn: The Insider's Encyclopedia on How to Build Muscle & Might	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Worth a read, but not a bodybuilding Bible	Beyond Brawn is Stuart McRobert's advice for the hardgaining bodybuilder.  In the book he advocates: <BR>-an enormous focus on correct form and safety precautions<BR>-one workout every three to five days, depending upon how much your body can tolerate.<BR>-focus on the major exercises like squats, deadlifts, dips, pullups, bench press, etc...<BR>-never more than three work sets per major exercise<BR>-increasing resistance in very small increments for medium and advanced bodybuilders<BR>-increasing or decreasing your calorie intake in relatively small increments to gain muscle without gaining too much fat or lose fat without losing too much muscle.<br />I agree with almost everything he says.  However, he repeats himself endlessly and makes the occasional reference to his other books.  The whole book could have been made 50 pages, perhaps less.  I guess he inflated the size so people would take it seriosly as an 'encyclopedia of bodybuilding'.  My time is precious, so ten hours of reading that could have been done in an hour and twenty minutes is worth -2 stars.<br />I've made decent progress following his program, although I can't always find the time to work out.	2003-11-02
US	44988496	RVLTVUA2DJ09G	0743412346	209608496	Sir Apropos of Nothing	Books	2	4	8	N	N	I won't buy the sequels	Sir Apropros of Nothing seems to start like a fantasy parody.  That's what the cover indicated, at least.  In the mood for a silly jaunt, I picked it up.  <br />But there are actually two books here.  One is a hilarious satire of most epic fantasy novels.  The other is a serious depiction of a clubfooted young man, conceived when his mother was raped, physically abused, mistreated, and maligned.  <br />I feel like someone mixed Victor Hugo with Dave Barry.  If the book had just been serious, or just been silly, it would be excellent.  As it is, we have discussions of Sir Umbrage of the Flaming Nether Regions amidst tales of a childhood upbringing that makes you want to weep.  The combination doesn't work.	2003-07-22
US	44988496	R165US3M285T9B	1892065894	967834367	Something M.Y.T.H. Inc.	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Light-hearted even for this series, but good	The Myth series, of course, never takes itself too seriously.  This one was even more light-hearted than most, and I can see why many reviewers were disappointed.<br />Still, I wasn't disappointed at all.  This book, like the others in the series with M.Y.T.H. in the title, is mostly written from the perspective of Skeeve's friends.  In this case, Guido has most of the spotlight.  He gets wind that some of Possiltum's populace thinks Skeeve has ensorcelled the queen to gain control, instead of offering aid at her request.  Not wanting to trouble Skeeve, he informs the rest of M.Y.T.H. and they start an investigation. <br />Hilarity ensues, of course.  A lot of major story arcs come to a close - I almost thought that Asprin was ending the series completely.  Apparently he isn't, though, since Amazon lists a new Myth Series with Asprin and Jody Lynn Nye as the authors, coming out later this year.	2003-05-09
US	44988496	ROCHGZT067HJ7	0671318284	72830897	Rats, Bats & Vats	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outstanding!	Original, fast paced, hilarious at points, fascinating... this is the best science fiction adventure novel I have ever read.  Period.<br />The original space colonists of a distant planet and their descendents live like kings with a subordinate social class composed of \\"Vats\\", cloned humans used for menial labor.  Small but deadly insect-like alien invaders arrive and begin waging trench warfare against the unprepared settlers.  The vats are drafted and sent into battle, along with hurriedly genetically engineered talking rat and bat helpers.  <br />The story picks up when one hapless vat, 6 bats, and 7 rats are separated from the main force by a cave-in and forced to look for another way back to friendly territory.  The seize-the-day attitudes of the little soldiers, facing a naturally short life span compounded by a high risk of death in combat, is the icing on the cake of one hell of an entertaining story.  I couldn't put it down.	2002-08-27
US	44988496	RN4CZ9F7NAE9D	0441009166	27938824	Dragon Bones (The Hurog Duology, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Outstanding...	This is the story of Ward, heir to a keep that had faked imbecility since entering his teens in order to avoid his violent father's wrath.  When his father is killed in a hunting accident, Ward's facade becomes his undoing as he is declared unfit to rule.  Exiled with an unlikely band of travelling companions, he and his friends encounter court intrigue, ancient magic, and a plot to use the dragon bones hidden beneath Ward's keep for corrupt magic.<br />The book has excellent pacing, fascinating characters, and a vivid setting, and I eagerly await the sequel.  I also intend to seek out other books by this writer.  <br />My only criticism is that Ward and friends at one point manage to take out several groups of bandits without serious injury.  I understand training and surprise are invaluable, but some of Ward's party lacked armor.  Some peasant raider would have gotten lucky eventually.	2002-03-21
US	44988496	R1MNGM99TM5JMZ	067157793X	616051317	On Basilisk Station (Honor Harrington #1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Superb space empire warfare	On Basilisk Station begins the story of Honor Harrington's rise through the ranks of the Manticoran Navy, as she becomes an increasingly important factor in an intragalactic war.<br />The series has fantastic stories, believable characters, and engrossing plots.  I've just finished the sixth book.<br />This first book, more than any other in the series, focuses on the mechanics of Weber's pseudo-science for faster than lightspeed travel.  I enjoyed it, but I know some won't.  Regardless, don't let it bog you down:  after he covers it here, it is only mentioned briefly in future works.<br />The only reason I give this book (and the series as a whole) four stars instead of five is that the heroine is a trifle too lucky.  Don't get me wrong, she largely makes her own luck.  But coincidence plays a hair too big of a factor for me to be truly comfortable.  If it weren't for that, I would gladly label this the best science fiction I've ever encountered.	2002-01-28
US	44988496	RCHHTUR6Y1N51	1555602207	144507123	Earthdawn	Books	5	10	10	N	N	fantastic... if you can find the book and willing players	Earthdawn was FASA's brilliant attempt for an original roleplaying game in a fantastic sword and sorcery (and more sorcery) fantasy settings.  <br />The game's premise is that the different civilizations are returning to surface life after 400 years of living in underground citadels.  Their ancestors had fled to these citadels to escape an invasion of monstrous beings that had been brought by the rising tide of magical energies in the world.  <br />The setting is rich, with tremendous roleplaying potential.  Player characters may interact in the re-emerging governments and politics.  They may serve as diplomats or warriors in nation disputes over land that has been unclaimed for centuries.  <br />The setting also provides the best justification for ancient ruins and dungeon-searching adventures of any system I have encountered.  An unknown number of citadels were overcome by the invading creatures during the 400 year period and even more were lost when their inhabitants attempted to return to the surface too soon.  Players may be contracted to clear out the caves, or search for an artifact.  The book offers a listing of several common foes, including soldiers of the different races but also several variants of the evil supernatural beings that have been left behind in their species' recent exodus.<br />The character races feature standard fantasy faire: orks, humans, elves, dwarves, trolls, and also some added variety with a lizard/human race, a species of rock men, and faeries.  <BR>The professions are even better, with over 10 to choose from.  Each profession uses magic in accordance with its associated skills, from warrior abilities for toughening skin to thieving skills to make the person nearly undetectable.<br />The only drawback to the system is the complexity.  There is a steps/ranks table for handling all skill uses (including spells and combat), and I have no complaints for it.  But character advancement becomes complicated because of the character customization.  However, I personally view the trade-off as more than worthwhile.	2001-11-12
US	44988496	R3DOQEKKCV1CHY	0786919965	651574096	The Wheel of Time Roleplaying Game (d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	worth the cost, especially if you buy through Amazon	I worried this adaptation of Robert Jordan's vast and colorful Wheel of Time Setting would be a disaster.  I need not have bothered.<br />Source material-wise, the book is densely packed.  It certainly has information gaps, but I did not reasonably expect one roleplaying sourcebook to exhaustively give the setting for a 7000+ page novel series.<br />For roleplaying material, the book is superb.  The jump from 3rd edition Dungeons and Dragons to Wheel of Time Roleplaying Game should take less than a day for the GM and maybe two hours for a player.  Complete newbies may need more time, but new players need a longer learning period for any roleplaying game.<br />The adaptation of the magic items and spellcasting system are spectacular.  I had been terrified that a handful of DnD spells would be renamed and one or two ill-considered dreamwalking spells would be inserted.  Instead, small aspects of the DnD mage and sorceror class have been taken and tweaked with a lot of new material.  Channelling, shielding, linking, sa'angreal, and saidin's taint are covered and covered well.  Dreamwalking also earned its own section.<br />There are few elaborate adventure hooks but a number of short ones and numerous hints and suggestions.<br />I say, get it and go nuts.  (...)	2001-11-12
US	44988496	R37ZHC7YX19W7Z	0671578510	862976515	Telzey Amberdon	Books	4	0	0	N	N	fun and enjoyable	This book is a series of short stories about (of course) Telzey Amberdon, a young woman living in the distant future who develops powerful psychic abilities.  <br />This is not a sweeping epic or an attempt at a classic.  The stories are written to entertain and stimulate the imagination, and they succeed.  I think you'll find yourself idly enjoying the stories as you imagine the scenes and wonder what it would be like to employ psychic abilities of your own.  I recommend it.	2001-09-24
US	44988496	R2VR69W7YZ89C2	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	enjoyable but not excellent	In case this is the first review you encounter, here is a brief summary: Ender is one of many children specially bred and selected for a special school that trains superb tacticians.  Of the school's hundreds of students he is the brightest.  The story reflects his struggles with the school's harsh learning conditions, the interactions with admiring and envious peers, and his anguish at knowing his strategic skills will one day be used to attempt to genocide an alien race of invaders.  The characters are very believable and the storyline is engrossing.<BR>     Unfortunately, my criticisms require SPOILING the story.  If you intend to read the book, don't go any further.  <br />I have two criticisms of the story elements.  First, I found it difficult to accept that all of Ender's brilliant tactics had never been tried before.  Surely an eighty-year school with hundreds of specially raised geniuses would have produced a great number of students able to innovate.  I'm certain I could never have devised all of Ender's battle tactics on my own, but I may have been able to invent one or two.  I refuse to believe that none of the other students had similar ideas.<BR>Second, the use of a queen creature as the ultimate leader and secret weakness of the enemy is a weak plot element.  There is a multitude of shows, books, and games that use this idea: the enemy force as a whole is super powerful, except for one central command creature/computer/ship.  Destroy that, and you win.  This done-to-death plot technique really disappointed me.  <br />If I could, I would give it 3.5 stars	2001-09-24
US	44988496	R3F0T4F5AAOBI6	0399146709	767225287	Communion with God	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Fascinating, but certainly not Christian	I decided to write this review because I see a tremendous dichotomy here: people who love the book and those who dismiss it as nonsense.  I will attempt to be objective.<br />This book is the fifth by Neale Walsh in his series of \\"Conversations with God\\".  In each book he has dialogues in which he writes, and then he is inspired by God to write responses. Most of the ideas in the books are undeniably taken from countless other religions.  You can call this the effects of God's previous inspirations by Neale.  Christianity, Taoism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Native American traditions, and probably Islam (I confess no knowledge of that religion) make up parts of the mix.  The books are well written, although increasingly repetitive as the series goes on. (The repetition is the only reason I give this one four stars instead of five.) P>I found several of \\"God's\\" arguments very compelling.  There is no hell or Satan: the idea of a jealous or judging god was invented by humans.  God wants us to relate to Him/Her/It/Them/Us through love and never fear.  Thus, God has no ethical laws for us to follow or associated punishments.  Our ethics should be guided by love and self-interest.  Instead of \\"Thou Shalt not kill\\" because God has decreed, do not kill because you love the person, you understand the value of the person, and because you would not like the transformation such an act would make on your personality.  The path to holiness (\\"mastery\\") is not through asceticism and suffering.  It is through joyfulness, love of self, love of others, and meditation.   Lastly, we are all a part of God.  <br />\\"God\\" never claims this series is a definitive work, and he doesn't want it to become a Bible.  Instead, it is just a guideline we may choose to follow.  I hesitate to label this \\"New Age\\" because of the astrology/hippie/tree-hugging connotation the phrase carries.  But I cannot deny that New Age people adore this book.  If association with that label disturbs you, then you'll probably read this from a prejudiced viewpoint and reject it.  If you are strongly entrenched in your present religion and not looking to change, you will likewise not find it worthwhile.  <br />Otherwise, I highly recommend the series.  Start with Conversations with God, Book 1, and see what you think.  Good luck.	2001-08-15
US	44988496	R226ZSOKYLRF1V	014044274X	151739643	The Betrothed: I Promessi Sposi (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	9	24	N	N	timeless, well written, nonetheless overrated	This book is, if I am not mistaken, considered one of the greatest pieces of Italian literature.  The characters are enjoyably human, the pace keeps you interested, and the writer paints an excellent picture of the times.  You see renaissance Italy with its plagues, religious uproar, and swaggering bravos.<br />Since religion is a very emotional issue for me, I was tempted to give the book a three or two rating.  In fairness, it deserves at least the four I gave it.  It describes the period beautifully and gives perfect exemplars for many different modes of behavior.  <br />Here are my criticisms.  If you haven't read the story, these will spoil it, so have a care.  I have three: First, the conversion of the master villian struck me as horrendously done.  He is touched by the innocent pleading and prayers of his victim.  Personally, I find it laughable that a man of such black reputation has never encountered similar circumstances before.  Why should this person's naive pleas for clemency be any different?  Second, the conversion of the Unnamed can be compared to Darth Vader's salvation at the end of the film Return of the Jedi.  Everyone is ecstatic over the redemption of this evil figure, only because of his power and charisma.  Just as no one cared for the other 100,000 troops that died on the Death Star, the bishop who visits the new convert spares a paltry few words for all of his underlings and their spiritual welfare.  The bishop does not visit them.  The people are not thankful when they convert.  We are thrilled when an archvillian switches allegiances, but like Manzoni, we couldn't care less about the salvation of any of his lesser followers.  This supposed Christian triumph is in fact only an illustration of human fascination with power.  Third, the reason for The Betrothed to marry despite the lady's promise to become a nun is absurd.  What if their betrothal had not been official?  Would God be so cruel as to hold her to a promise made while she was fearful for her life?  That vow, like any other promise made under duress, cannot have been valid.  <br />I hope you'll forgive my rant.  The story is a testament to its time and certainly one of the better books I had to suffer through during college. :)	2001-08-10
US	44988496	R15GZ6SFK2Q93H	0441810764	163941388	Time Enough for Love	Books	5	4	6	N	N	a masterwork from a fantastic storyteller	This book gives some autobiographical tidbits from the viewpoint of Heinlein's beloved rogue, Lazarus Long.  When the phrase &quot;Curl up with a good book&quot; comes to my mind, this is the book I picture.  Like many of Heinlein's other works, it seeks to educate the reader as it entertains.<br />The book is a string of stories narrated by Long, and Heinlein unabashedly uses Long to give the reader his personal views on life, government and politics, relationships, and many other subjects.  Over four hundred pages of that, and I found nothing I opposed.  However, that is not to say that they are all traditional views.  It just means I am as wise - or as crazy - as Lazarus.  <br />I recommend this fantastic piece of literature to anyone.  My only complaint is the use of time travel, a plot device I personally despise.  But I believe it was necessary for Heinlein to illustrate some of the taboos he wanted Long to overcome.  Even with that drawback, I still rate the book good enough to deserve five stars.	2001-08-08
US	44988496	R1ABH5TFF6AMDC	0595092144	647863798	Firedrake (Dragonrealm)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	now that's what I'm talking about- a classic	THE sword and sorcery fantasy setting, in my humble opinion. I've read books by over 20 of the current big names in fantasy and science fiction, and I rank Knaak as one of the best. <br />This book starts Richard Knaak's fantasy series set on the world of the Dragonrealms.  It is fantastic sword and sorcery writing: a fascinating setting with a rich history and colorful characters.  The books are all fast paced and engrossing.  <br />Pick this up if you get the chance.  You can't lose.	2001-08-02
US	44988496	R3SPTC8GSERU3M	0553578898	841387201	Tomorrow and Tomorrow	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The concepts sweep you away...	The story of a late 20th century man whose wife is dying.  Rather than let her go, he has them both cryogenically frozen in the hopes that she may be cured in the future.  He is awakened much later only to learn that she was irrevocably lost to him.  Instead he is needed as the last remnant of humanity's violent times to combat a new menace to the vast but peaceful human space empire.<br />This book tops my list of Sheffield favorites.  Even if you despise the story - and I don't see why you would - the concepts of what man may accomplish in the distant future will leave you in wonder for days.  Sheffield introduces an incredible amount of fascinating ideas about the future of genetic engineering, artificial intelligence, society, music, space travel, communications, immortality, and even the nature of reality.<br />I withheld the fifth star from my rating because the ending baffled me.  This may have been the fault of my hurry to see what happens, rather than any poor writing on the author's part.  But I was a little disappointed by it.  Still, I heartily recommend this to anyone interested in sci fi or just exploring possibilities.	2001-08-02
US	44988496	R1OW2DFE548YQP	0595092136	396980399	Ice Dragon (Dragonrealm)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The second in a great series	This book returns us to the realm Knaak first created so vividly in &quot;FireDrake.&quot;  Our hero Cabe Bedlam is forced into conflict with Ice Dragon, who has hatched a mad scheme to engulf the world in an eternal winter.<br />The story is not half as silly as it sounds.  Not even a quarter.  Maybe a tenth, though.  Seriously, this is a good read.  It fleshes out the setting and the characters even further while providing another entertaining, fast moving story.<br />The only drawback to this book is that there is less intrigue and surprises.  Still worth a read.	2001-08-02
US	44988496	R30N4R80277Q3U	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	the balance between escapism and realism	A fantasy writer must balance between giving his readers enjoyment to escape the mundanities of daily life and giving them realism.  If he errs too far in one direction, you have stories where smart, strong, resourceful heroes easily crush dull-witted, weak, unimaginative villians.  If he goes too far into the other direction the heroes may lose.  George Martin mixes the two sides beautifully, but he undeniably leans in the latter direction.  Although one of the main families is named &quot;Stark,&quot; the line between good and evil is anything but clear.  The reader becomes immersed in the vivid experiences of people so real you think you could touch them.  You want to cry as you watch them get hurt and you hate their enemies almost as passionately as they do.<br />The people who have written negative reviews dislike the book (the series) for that very reason.  You will not find light-hearted adventure and chivalry here.  If that kind of harsh setting is not to your liking, seek entertainment elsewhere.<br />But for the rest of us, the grim reality portrayed only strengthens the amazing catharsis we receive on those rare moments when justice is served.  For many fantasy writers, the defeat of foes leaves the reader dissatisfied because of the heroes' tremendous advantage.  With Martin, each minor obstacle overcome by one of the overmatched protagonists makes you want to dance.  I rank him the best fantasy writer alive today.  I recommend you read his works and make your own decision.<br />Lastly, I am sick of the comparisons between these works and the much venerated Lord of the Rings. This is not Tolkien. The writing styles are completely different.  Don't waste time comparing them.	2001-08-02
US	44988496	R2OZNYYY4RO6JK	0618002251	669379389	The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Real pain in the neck.	I've read a respectable number of fantasy novels.  The short list: Piers Anthony, Robert Asprin, Terry Brooks, Steven Brust, Jack Chalker, Robert Charrette, CJ Cherryh, Troy Denning, David Eddings, Raymond Feist, Barbara Hambly, Robert Heinlein, Frank Herbert, Robert Howard, Robert Jordan, Jak Koke, Mercedes Lackey, George RR Martin, Jack McDevitt, Mel Odom, Ann Rice, Joel Rosenberg, RA Salvatore, Charles Sheffield, Christopher Stasheff, Tad Williams, Weis and Hickman...<br />I am sick and tired of hearing people say, &quot;Tolkien is the best.&quot; &quot;Tolkien is God.&quot;  &quot;Nobody writes stories as good as The Lord of the Rings.&quot;  I've read from authors who give deeper characterization than Tolkien.  I've read from authors who give more colorful settings, and more vivid encounters, and more believable character interactions.<br />But I must admit that very few, if any, manage to balance all of the various elements well enough to match this trilogy.  Piers Anthony's frequent use of mild sexual scenes kept my interest in his books much stronger than my interest in Tolkien.  But after I left puberty, rereading his stories proved very disappointing.  Eddings has extremely lovable heroes but extremely shallow villians and simplistic plotlines.  Jordan's influence of &quot;Ta'veren&quot; coupled with Min's special prophetic visions ruin half the story because you know if, how, and when some characters will die.  Martin's willingness to kill off protagonists brings superb 'realism' into the story.  But the enjoyment a reader gets from the realistic element is greatly diminished by the dismay at losing a favorite character.  And so forth...<br />I haven't read The Lord of the Rings in years (five times through should be enough for anyone).  But they remain the rulestick for measuring fantasy, and a disappointingly small number of current writers come even close.	2001-07-31
US	44988496	R1IZWQT76TBZ7X	0915811898	41314959	Way of the Peaceful Warrior: A Book That Changes Lives	Books	3	5	11	N	N	Good points and bad points	The way of the peaceful warrior does an excellent job driving home how precious and short our time on earth is.  It teaches to live less seriously but more intensely. For that Dan Millman deserves credit. On the other hand, it has plenty of falsehoods that really detract from the book's value, and some of them were downright dangerous.  The mentor, Socrates, spends the book teaching Dan the peaceful warrior's way to live.  Among other lessons, he drives home the point that life's goal is not gaining knowledge.  Dan Millman then demonstrates his lack of knowledge in many of the things he writes.   First, &quot;peaceful warrior&quot; is like &quot;sleeping insomniac&quot; or &quot;vegetarian shark.&quot;  They don't go together.  In one scene, Socrates is forced to subdue some attackers in self defense.  Acting in self defense hardly makes one a warrior, and Socrates displays great proficiency with something similar to Aikido.  Yet never does the author mention where, how, and why our peaceful warrior gained this proficiency.  Second, Socrates uses tales of Ninja youths being taught to jump over a corn seedling as it grows until it reaches its full height, and the young ninja can do incredible feats.  Corn was developed in the Americas, and I don't believe it found its way to Japan until after the Ninjas were largely gone.  And a long daily regimen of jumping falls into the realm of plyometrics, exercise with little documented benefit and large documented risk of joint damage.  Third, Dan is introduced to a strict vegetarian diet, with the exception of cheese.  A quick look at any vegetarian literature shows that cheese's health benefit ranks equally with that of whole milk, ice cream, and bacon.  Vegetarian with cheese is like Low fat diet and Dunkin Donuts.   The book is worth reading once, and most of the lessons are valuable to anyone.  But don't take it too seriously, especially any references to willful ignorance.	2001-07-20
US	44988496	R29KZV2Q7GQTDM	0786915749	486220975	Dragons of Autumn Twilight (Dragonlance Chronicles, Volume I)	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Worth reading at least once, especially for teens.	Dragons of Autumn Twilight is the first, and by far the best, book detailing the world of Krynn invented by Weis and Hickman.  Some additional 80 books have been written in the setting, and only a handful - some of the other ones by the original authors - are worth reading. The characters and settings are magnificently vivid and interesting enough to spark a teenager's love of reading.  It certainly did that for me.  I practically adored this book and its characters for years.   Unfortunately, rereading this as an adult was disappointing.  There were too many inconsistencies for believability, even in a fantasy setting.	2001-07-18
US	44988496	R1A3G1OYUT03CB	0441329918	299752823	Hidden Variables	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Short stories... some awesome, some oddball	Hidden Variables is a collection of Sheffield's short stories.     I love Sheffield's stuff and I found most of this book utterly fascinating.  These include some of the chapters you can find in &quot;The Compleat McAndrew,&quot; a unique perspective on time travel, a short but well-written piece on one man's conversion after a murder, and a very nifty murder mystery involving a special friction-reducing chemical.       For those stories, I would rate the book a solid 5.  However, he also wrote a few stories involving pigs in order to prove a point or satisfy a bet of some sort.  I think the book would have been better off without them.  But the rest were well worth reading. I recommend it.	2001-07-17
US	44988496	R3GZ2WKH0UQEBI	0451191145	604964480	Atlas Shrugged	Books	2	7	11	N	N	Caught in the whirlwind that obscures the shallowness	Ayn Rand's masterwork uses superheroic characters and a strongly slanted view of reality to ensnare the reader.  I would venture to say that most people who read this book (myself included) without an extremely skeptical point of view get caught up in her writing.<br />You desperately want to believe everything is as black and white as the famed John Galt sees it.  Total focus on individual rights and rational selfishness becomes your 'gospel,' and you fall in love with the nobility of honest businessman earning his profit by trading with other capitalists of high integrity.<br />But after the initial rush tapers away, and you start analyzing more &quot;Objectively&quot; you realize it is a house of cards.   John Galt (her perfect human being) has a worldview that fails from a philosophical point of view, from a logical point of view, and most importantly from plain common sense.<br />If you're interested in Libertarian philosophy, (similar to Rand's Objectivism) there are many better sources of a philosophical foundation for it than this work.	2001-03-25
US	44988496	R1FYHZJA9Z28RP	0809230712	480393753	Power Factor Training : A Scientific Approach to Building Lean Muscle Mass	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Some poor science in their 'scientific' approach	This book claims scientific research into their partial-range repetition program, and lists the amazing progress the authors made using it. On first glance it is excellent.  I must admit, I do not have access to a power rack and gobs of plates, so I have not had an opportunity to test their theories on partials. I did not have good progress when I tried to use it with a full range of motion.  I can only criticize it as a book, and these are the criticisms I have:<br />1. The authors represent Power Factor for an exercise to represent the number of pounds of resistance multiplied by the number of repetitions divided by the number of minutes in the exercise.  300 lb bench press * 20 reps /2 minutes = Power Factor 3000 pounds per minute.  Body mechanics and range of motion are constants for any one trainee, so they cancel out.  You cannot meaningfully compare the power factors between two trainees for any given exercises.  <BR>   They don't have a minimum repetition speed.  Now obviously, with a very small range of motion, you want a relatively fast repetition speed.  Still, fast movement introduces momentum into the situation.  Momentum increases the risk of injury and it reduces the actual amount of work your muscles do.  If you press 100 pounds slowly, you are exerting 100 pounds of force the whole time.  If you press it quickly, part way through the repetition you are only exerting 50 or 60 pounds because momentum is doing the rest of the work.<BR>    If you follow the program, I believe you should establish a minimum repetition time to minimize momentum.  That will work the muscles harder, and reduce injury risks.<br />2. The authors don't focus on negatives - resisting the weight when you lower it.  Their reason is that you never know exactly how much force you are exerting during the negative.  That is a glaring mistake in their book, something a high school physics student should be able to catch.  Force equals mass times acceleration.  If you lower a 100 poundresistance at a constant speed, you are exerting 100 pounds of force.  You exerted less than 100 to start it to lower, and you must exert more than 100 to get it to stop dropping at the bottom.  In the middle, you must be exerting exactly 100 pounds.  Otherwise, the speed of movement will be accelerating or decelerating.<BR>    That error demonstrates that the authors don't know as much as they let on, and they ignore the negative because of it.  If they had known that, they might have structured the program differently.<br />3. Some of the strength in a strong range partial repetition comes from the mechanical advantage, not using the most muscle fibers.  Bench pressing 300 pounds for a 4 inch range of motion starting 14 inches from your chest may be better for your ego than bench pressing 100 pounds for a 4 inch range of motion starting right at your chest, but the mechanical disadvantage of the latter makes it just as much hard work as the former.  <BR>     I'm not saying partial repetitions don't work, but I am saying that using the most resistance doesn't mean that you're working the muscle as hard as possible.  You can often work the muscle just as hard, or at least very nearly as hard with lighter resistance if you change the range of motion.     <br />4. The book has many pictures of colossally powerful men wearing Power Factor T-Shirts. Nowhere does it state that these men actually used Power Factor Training. They have Power Factor T-shirts, but that hardly constitutes solid evidence that they even once tried this program.  If they had testimonials or contact information for those models, explaining their own progress with Power Factor Training, I would have been impressed.  If they had normal men depicted in the book with slightly above average musculature and stories of their progress, I would have also been impressed.  <BR>   Instead, I am reminded of advertisements featuring hugely muscular men in Flex magazine for supplements that promise to add 20 pounds of muscle in a week, guaranteed (but no money back, of course) if I will just send $50.  <br />5. The authors claim phenomenal strength gains on this program when they tried it for themselves, yet nowhere in the book are they depicted.  I don't need to see Schwarzeneggar to believe in the book, but if indeed their Power Factors and Power Indices increased by insane amounts, surely they must have some muscles to display.  <br />6. Last but not least, the authors claim that using very heavy weights in a strong range of motion will stimulate stronger tendons and ligaments.  Their justification for this is rather shaky and poorly explained.  <br />The book is worth a read, but I wouldn't label it the holy grail of bodybuilding just yet.	2001-03-02
US	44988496	R11A2AZU6CRU5N	067157857X	676473820	The Compleat McAndrew	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Put on your thinking cap and get on board	I am not fond of futuristic science fiction novels.  I was not fond of futuristic science fiction novels, that is... Sheffield has converted me.  His pseudo-physics speculation is fascinating.  His stories keep your interest and don't waste time with undue detail.  His characterization lags by comparison to the rest of the story - but is still better than most of your sci fi/fantasy writers.  You spend the whole book thinking, &quot;That's really cool&quot; while you keep turning the pages to see what happens next.  I highly recommend it.	2001-03-02
