US	45031108	R1Z0GZVVW3TBR7	1894959167	160223766	Apollo 12: The NASA Mission Reports Vol 2: Apogee Books Space Series 50	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Another winner	Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have, over the past six years, compiled a variety NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race, focusing on the Apollo missions.  This time, they have released a second volume of information dedicated in the second lunar landing, Apollo 12, which includes a DVD of the lunar EVA and an excellent companion NASA publication. Apollo 12 was the only the second manned lunar landing.  This mission was commanded by Charles \\"Pete\\" Conrad who was accompanied to the surface by Alan Bean with Dick Gordon as the Command Module pilot. <br /> <br />Regardless of whether or not you were alive to see the moon landings live on TV, you definitely can relive the excitement of that wondrous time by watching this two-sided DVD.  The DVD covers all phases of the mission as well as training footage onboard the KC-135 affectionately known as the \\"Vomit Comet.\\"  The DVD has many hours of footage, with sound, related to launch, lunar landing, lunar EVA, recovery, splashdown, rendezvous, onboard TV, assembled panoramas, and 16 mm camera footage.  The quality of the footage is not that great, but it is a good as it was when in was first broadcast in 1969. <br /> <br />The book that accompanies the DVD is a reprint of the Apollo 12 Mission Report prepared by the Mission Evaluation Team from the Manned Spaceflight Center in Houston.  This report is essentially the scientific and engineering evaluation of the flight, so there is very little about the scientific findings and exploration.  This lengthy report is 190 pages long and covers all aspects of the mission, from liftoff, lunar landing, the moonwalk, the experiments, and the return to Earth.  In these pages, there are figures that show a comparison between a predicted value and an actual flight value (how much was used vs. how much was estimated).  It also contains two fairly long sections, which describes both the Command and Service Module and the Lunar Module.  The report also contains, many black and white photographs, line drawing and several technical graphs.  While some readers may the report's writing a bit dry in some places, they are actually getting a view of how NASA operates and why their exploration programs for the most part are quite successful. <br /> <br />Some general information that might be useful. <br /> <br />1) This report is a scanned-in documents from a previously released NASA document. In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed. <br /> <br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to \\"The Watch\\" an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents. <br /> <br />3) Many people have asked why the post mission science reports are not included. Since NASA has published several books with hundred of pages each, the NASA Special Publications Series, it would be difficult to include this voluminous amount of data.	2005-05-14
US	45031108	R3H1GDALBBGVAD	1894959043	652035864	Gemini 12: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 40	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great as Usual	Over the past five years, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have compiled a variety of various NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race and with specific emphasis on the Apollo missions. As is obvious from the title, this book does not focus on any Apollo mission, but the final Gemini mission, Gemini 12.  With the launch of this mission, one of the most successful manned space flight projects came to an end.  The mission focused on rendezvous and docking; however, the most important aspect of this mission was the testing and evaluation of the Extravehicular Activities (EVA).  Veteran astronaut James Lovell who was making his second trip into space commanded this mission, while rookie astronaut Buzz Aldrin conducted the EVAs.  By all accounts, this mission was extremely successful and proved that man could function in space outside of the spacecraft.<br />Like many of the other volumes in this NASA Mission Report series, the book opens with the usual NASA press releases and mission press kit. It is easy to tell that the author and his staff have spent some time searching for some very clean originals, since compared to their earlier efforts the scanned in drawings are almost perfect.  In addition, to the customary background information, the press kit focuses on the scientific and operational aspects of the mission including a nice summary of all the Gemini missions. The next section contains the Gemini 12 Summary Operations Report, which presents a basic overview of the planned activities of the mission, including the EVA timelines.  A small six page report summaries the Gemini program accomplishedments.<br />The next section, the crew debrief section, covers over half of the book, and is 140 pages long.  This part contains the crew's comments and feelings about various phases of the mission.  Unlike a lot of the previously published crew debriefings, this one is fairly technical and uses a lot of undefined NASA acronyms.  Most of the pages in this section are devoted to the EVAs and as one would expect, Buzz Aldrin does most of the talking.  There are nice sections on the rendezvous and docking as well as general spacecraft performance through out the mission.  Here James Lovell is much more involved in the debriefing.<br />The final section of the book includes a seldom seen report about modifying the Gemini capsule and launch vehicle, so that it could be launch towards the moon and eventuully enter lunar orbit.  While the report does not present a lot of technical detail, but it does show that was possible to use the Gemini capsule for lunar operations.<br />As usual the book also contains a CD that is loaded with a variety of interesting features. The CD contains over 400 photographic still images that appear to be in high resolution and focuses on the EVAs, Earth Observations, and rendezvous and docking.  The CD contains 16mm camera footage, a NASA mission movie, and the mission Air-to Ground transcript.  The CD also contains a nice interview with James Lovell.<br />Some general information that might be useful. <br />1) These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc., In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed. <br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents. <br />3) Many people have asked why the post mission reports are not included. Since NASA has published several books with hundred of pages each (The NASA SP series), it would be difficult to included this voluminous amount of data.	2004-04-04
US	45031108	R34U79EW82RQY0	1894959019	224063987	Sigma 7: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 37	Books	5	9	9	N	N	More Great NASA Publications At Your Fingertips	Captain Wally Schirra was one of the seven Mercury Astronauts named by NASA in April 1959. On October 3, 1962; he piloted the six orbit Sigma 7 Mercury flight; a flight which lasted 9 hours, 15 minutes. The spacecraft attained a velocity of 17,557 miles per hour at an altitude of 175 statue miles and traveled almost 144,000 statute miles before re-entry into the earth's atmosphere. Recovery of the Sigma 7 spacecraft occurred in the Pacific Ocean about 275 miles northeast of Midway Island.  His flight was considered a critical flight in the manned space flight program, since the previous two Mercury flights experienced major malfunctions (Scott Carpenter's overshot of the landing site and John Glenn's reentry shield problem).<br />The book opens with the usual NASA press kit, which covers the basics of the mission, the major hardware components of the Mercury capsule, mission objectives and a biography of the astronaut.  The next section of the book contains numerous one and two pages News Releases that cover specific topics of the mission.  The next section contains a very interesting scanned in pamphlet called \\"The Six Orbits of Sigma 7\\" which as the title indicates provides an overview of his mission.  This NASA produced promotional brochure contains many highlights of the mission, from the training exercises, the flight to the splashdown and post-flight celebration tour.  It is loaded with numerous black and white photographs, many of which showcase Wally Schirra's personal life.  <br />The next section contains the Flight Operations Debriefing of the mission.  The portion of the book is a question and answer section between Wally Schirra and members of the Flight Operations Directorate and was conducted immediately after splashdown.  This debriefing contains the astronaut's opinion on the functioning of the capsule.  From the answers given in this section, it is clear why Wally Schirra was chosen as an astronaut.  His answers are highly technical and give the spacecraft designers an excellent insight to the operation of the Mercury capsule This section maybe difficult for some to follow, since there are numerous undefined NASA acronyms and references to specific pieces of equipment (individual switches), which are probably known only to the astronauts and the designers of the capsule.<br />The section of the book contains the NASA Special Publication, \\"Results of the Third United States Manned Orbital Flight, October 3, 1962.\\"  This piece discusses the performance of the spacecraft and the launch vehicle, the flight controllers, and the astronaut together with a detailed analysis of the medical aspects of the flight.<br />As is typical for all the books in the Mission Reports series, this book contains a CD that includes additional material.  The CD contains a NASA produced film titled, \\"The Flight of Sigma 7.\\"  The CD also contains a pdf of the hard-to-find NASA Special Publication, Space Medicine In Project Mercury (SP-4003).  Finally, the CD has a short interview with Wally Schirra.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1) These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc., In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed. <br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.	2003-11-09
US	45031108	R2M8KV87LQZA17	0761323589	633093785	Earth And The Moon (Worlds Beyond)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Another Good Book for Kids and Adults	Anyone who has ever looked at the night sky, has probably spent some time examining the moon and how it waxes and wanes across the sky.  In this book, the author and artist of numerous astronautical, astronomical and science-friction illustrations and texts, examines the latest scientific findings and theories about our nearest planetary body.  A significant portion of the book covers the latest and most accepted theory regarding the creation of the moon and its impact on the formation of the Earth.  The book also outlines the latest theories on the evolution of life on our planet and the geology of the planet, past, present and future.  The book concludes with a brief examination of the current state of the Earth and the manned and unmanned exploration of the moon.<br />While this book is geared towards teenagers, most adults would definitely learn something as well. By the way, I found this book in my library's adult section.	2003-07-04
US	45031108	RMX8WWR2DVTWF	0765116669	279037567	One Small Step: Apollo 11 and the Legacy of the Space Age	Books	5	2	2	N	N	For Everyone - A Great Book About The First Moon Landing	Released to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Apollo 11 moon landing, this book presents a nice summary of the first moon landing mission from the training of the astronauts to their post-landing quarantine, through the use of numerous black and white and color photographs and supporting text.  This book also includes some brief information about the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo missions that lead up to the first moon landing.  There are also several shorts sections which examine the influence of the space race on several aspects of pop-culture of the 1950's and 1960's, by examining such topics as classic science fiction movies, television shows, space toys and NASA art.  Even though this book is relatively short, it is a wonderful and nostalgic look back at one of the greatest moments in the history of the United States of American and all of humanity and is book that can be enjoyed by both young and old alike.	2003-06-04
US	45031108	RMBFOWY5XVU6F	0810929236	668374638	Hubble Space Telescope: New Views of the Universe	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Just an FYI	The book comes in two-versions.  One is a paperback and the other is a hardback, which I own.  I would definately call the hardback a coffee table book.  Large format photos, in a book that opens nicely for great viewing	2003-03-06
US	45031108	RKD8WR9I985R8	0789484250	341722749	Space Shuttle: The First 20 Years -- The Astronauts' Experiences in Their Own Words	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Long Overdue Book - Spectacular!!!	It seems hard to believe that the first space shuttle launch happened almost 22 years ago.  During that time, hundreds of astronauts and cosmonauts both men and women, from many different countries have flown in space onboard this marvel of engineering.  This book recounts the adventures of those who have flown onboard the space shuttle, using high quality, color photographs and a small amount of accompanying text (a few paragraphs to a few pages) provided by the astronauts and as the title states, in their own words.  I've always felt that a large format, coffee table style book dedicated to the space shuttle program was long overdue.<br />This book is divided into two distinct parts:  A chronology of the first twenty years of missions and then a section that examines an entire space shuttle mission from training to launch and then to landing.  These two sections are loaded with many different stories such as the wonder of being in space and viewing our home planet, preparing and eating meals in space, a humorous story of the operation of the space toilet, the use of Mir, the construction of the International Space Station and of course the terrible times associated with the Challenger explosion.  It is nice to see that through all the triumphs and trails of space exploration, these people who many hold up as modern day heroes, are just as human as the rest of us, and are filled with awe of this great adventure into the unknown.<br />The book also contains an Appendix that provides an excellent summary of all the missions that occurred during the first twenty years of shuttle operations.  In addition, there is also a nice overview section, which briefly examines shuttle systems, astronauts training and shuttle operations.<br />One final thought, since the book celebrates the first twenty years of space shuttle flights, there is not any information related to the loss of the Columbia.  Maybe the authors of this book will be able to produce an equally excellent bookas a tribute to the Columbia.  Here's hoping.	2003-03-03
US	45031108	RLV0T734K1QFE	0160496403	750638606	From Engineering Science to Big Science : The Naca and Nasa Collier Trophy Research Project Winners (Nasa Sp, 4219)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Interesting and Well Written History of NASA/NACA Awards	Since 1911, the Robert J. Collier Trophy has been awarded annually to individuals and organizations, for &quot;the greatest achievement in aeronautics or astronautics in America, with respect to improving the performance, efficiency, and safety of air or space vehicles, the value of which has been thoroughly demonstrated by actual use during the preceding year.&quot;  Since 1929, The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and its predecessor agency, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), have received the trophy twenty times.<br />This book, originally publishing by NASA, as NASA Special Publication 4219 (NASA SP-4219), is a collection of essays by sixteen different authors, covering all twenty Collier trophy awards that either NASA or NACA has received.  The book also examines the evolution in the award process from awarding specific individuals to awarding large groups of people.  The first five chapters cover the five awards that NACA won.  These awards focused on specific research topics and individuals and included such topics as supersonic and transonic flow, drag, and one engineering topic for airplane wing de-icing.  The remaining chapters examine NASA contributions to aerospace.  As one would expect most of the awards were given to the manned space flight projects such as Mercury, Apollo (5), Skylab and the Shuttle (4); however, the Voyager robotic space probe, the LANDSAT Earth resources satellite, the X-15 and the advanced turbo-prop project also received this honor.<br />Since each chapter in the book covers a specific topic and time period, itis in essence a mini-book, so it is therefore possible to read this book is several short increments without missing any of the significant points.  This format allows the reader, especially those who may not have a technical background, to digest the topics quite easy.  Furthermore, I should point out that each of these chapters is written by some of the leading aerospace historians.<br />I only have one very small complaint about the book.  That is, since sixteen authors wrote this book, sometimes the transition between chapters and references to other chapters is not very smooth.  This, however, is a very minor problem, and does not take away from this wonderful book.	2003-02-21
US	45031108	R1MXUJWTC12MKD	0521813603	61047680	Asteroid Rendezvous: NEAR Shoemaker's Adventures at Eros	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Very Good Book About A Great Space Mission	The Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous (NEAR) mission was the first of NASA's \\"Faster, Better Cheaper\\" spacecraft.  Its primary mission was to orbit the asteroid 433 Eros, thereby becoming the first robotic explorer to orbit and eventually land on an asteroid.  On the journey to Eros, NEAR flew by the main-belt asteroid Mathilde as well as our home planet, the Earth and returned dozens of pictures; however, the journey to Eros was almost lost when a software error caused the main engine to shut down prematurely.  Due to the efforts the engineers and scientists supporting this project, the space probe was saved and the NEAR mission became one of the most successful NASA missions.  In the end, the mission returned with hundreds of thousands of images, spectra, and other measurements about the large near-Earth asteroid Eros.<br />In this book, the author, Jim Bell, a planetary scientist and professor at Cornell, has assembled nine different articles about various aspects of this mission into one concise book about all aspects of this specular mission.  The book opens with a chapter providing an overview of Eros and then moves into two chapters dedicated to the spacecraft and its mission, and its trip to Eros, from launch to rendezvous.  The remaining chapters cover the different discovers made by the NEAR spacecraft, such as its overall landscape, its history, and several on its geology.  There is also one chapter, which explains the photography planning, and eventual execution of this plan.<br />In general, I did not find the book to be very technical and there is a glossary of terms to help the layman as well as numerous photographs, figures and graphs are found throughout the book to further explain a given topic.<br />If you are interested in planetary exploration or the space program in general, this book would an excellent addition to your library.	2003-02-19
US	45031108	R35EHMXKG72FGU	0947068198	396576552	The Greatest Adventure/Apollo 13 & Other Space Adventures by Those Who Flew Them!	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful and Exciting Spaceflight Photographs	The Association of Space Explorers is a unique group of individuals whose only requirement for membership is that one has to have journeyed into space.  The goal of the ASE is to bring the excitement and wonder of space exploration to the general public.  This book, \\"The Greatest Adventure\\" is their second book dedicated to this ideal, and is an excellent companion to their first book, \\"The Home Planet.\\"<br />This coffee table book presents some of the best photographs taken of the Earth and a few of the Moon by both astronauts and cosmonauts, from the early days of the space race till the mid-1990's when this book was published.  Due to the coffee table format of the book, the high resolution, color photographs are extremely impressive. Accompanying these wonderful photographs is a small piece describing each astronaut's voyage and impression of being in space which includes the entire range of astronauts, from commanders, pilots and mission specialists.<br />New printings of this book are common, so if it is listed as not being in print, check back frequently, because a new print might be out soon.	2003-02-17
US	45031108	R28SNTAUVH36I9	1896522556	849816241	Apollo 13: The NASA Mission Reports (Apogee Books Space Series, 9)  (Vol 2)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Technical Side of the Apollo 13 Mission	Over the past few years the saga of Apollo 13 has been recounted in several books (Jim Lovell's Lost Moon, Gene Kranz's Failure is Not an Option and Chris Kraft's Flight) and the Blockbuster movie, Apollo 13.  While these books and movies have provided an excellent overview of this \\"Successful Failure,\\" and the role that Mission Control played in it, technical details associated with the explosion of the spacecraft are not discussed in any great detail.  This latest volume from Apogee does just that.<br />Apollo 13 was planned to be NASA's third lunar landing and the first one dedicated to scientific exploration.  The Lunar Module was scheduled to land at Fra Mauro with commander Jim Lovell who making his fourth space mission and second to the moon and rookie Lunar Module Pilot Fred Haise.  Jack Swigert, who was the Command Module Pilot, replaced Ken Mattingly only days before launch remained in orbit.<br />Like most of the other volumes in this NASA Mission Report series, the book opens with the usual NASA mission press kit.  This press kit is more detailed than the previous mission, Apollo 12, because it contains detailed information about the lunar surface activities and experiments.  It is interesting to note that due to late addition of Jack Swigert to the crew, Ken Mattingly is still listed as the Command Module Pilot.  The next of the book contains the Post Launch Mission Operation Report, which is essentially a moderately technical summary of all the highlights of the mission.<br />The next section of the book, contains the crew debrief section, and covers about 25% of the book and is 67 pages long.  This debriefing was conducted only a few days after the splashdown.  As one would expect, much of this section deals with the accident and their flight around the moon and back to earth; however, there many portions devoted to crew training, launch, observation of the moon and more.  This section maybe difficult for many to follow, since there are numerous undefined NASA acronyms and references to specific pieces of equipment in the Command Module (individual switches) which probably only the astronauts and the designers of the Apollo capsule know.<br />The final section of the book is the transcripts of the House Committee on Science and Astronautics Hearings and the report that was submitted to this committee.  It is in this portion of the book that contains the most technical descriptions of the accident.  There are detailed timelines of the mission and accident, documentation related to the construction of the oxygen tank and numerous photographs.<br />As usual in all the Mission Reports series, the book contains a CD that includes additional material.  The CD contains all the 70mm Hassalblad photographs which includes some spectacular views of the far side of the moon and the crew before and after the oxygen tank explosion.  Also included on the CD is an interview with Jim Lovell, the post landing press conference (over an hour long) and several NASA videos. <br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1) These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc., In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed. <br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.	2003-02-08
US	45031108	R206F6S37LJ1H4	0891162712	871814073	Thermal Radiation Heat Transfer (McGraw-Hill Series in Transportation)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Definative Book on Thermal Radiative Heat Transfer	Thermal Radiation Heat Transfer by Robert Siegel and John Howell is probably the ,most widely used text for graduate students and is the book I have probably used more than any other in my professional engineering career.  Originally published in the 1960's as a NASA Special Publication (SP-164), this book has been significantly updated three times since its initial published in 1972.  In this latest version of the book, the authors cover the standard radiation heat transfer topics, such as the Stefan-Boltzmann relation, blackbody radiation, the various forms of optical surfaces properties (emissivity, transmissivity, absorptivity, diffuse, specular and much more), and an enclosure analysis.  Topics, which are often overlooked in other textbooks, such as gas radiation, scattering, multi-mode heat, the Maxwell relationships, are given a thorough examination in this book.  Furthermore, this latest edition of the book includes a CD-ROM contains a catalog of 290 configuration factors in algebraic or graphical form, plus homework problems.  Finally, if you are looking for an excellent textbook which covers almost aspects of radiation heat, this book is a must, especially for those people planning of a career in which is involved with heat transfer.	2003-01-29
US	45031108	RIKWL9U8OMRKC	0151004676	362849957	For Spacious Skies: The Uncommon Journey of a Mercury Astronaut	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Superb	Scott Carpenter was selected as one of the original seven Mercury Astronauts on April 9, 1959 and flew the second American manned orbital flight on May 24, 1962.  This flight was only the fourth manned launch for the United States.  During his flight aboard the Aurora 7 spacecraft, he made three revolutions of the Earth, reaching a maximum altitude of 164 miles for a total flight time of 4 hours and 54 minutes.  With the exception of Deke Slayton, who was sidelined with heart arrhythmia, Scott Carpenter is the only Mercury Seven astronaut who only made one spaceflight.  As one would probably expect, including this reader, with such a small amount of space flight to his name that there could hardly be much to write about.  I must, however, admit I was wrong and Scott Carpenter and his daughter have written a wonderful and extremely interesting book about his life from his birth to his leaving NASA.<br />The book opens with quite a lengthy section about Scott Carpenter's childhood from age two when he left New York and moved to Colorado through his high school years, which is about a fifth of the book.  Such a long section devoted to one's youth is atypical of most astronaut biographies, however, this portion book serves an excellent introduction to the man's character.  In contrast to the other Mercury Seven astronauts who came from the traditional 1920's family setting, he was raised by maternal grandparents, because of an absent father and a mother who suffered tuberculosis.  He feels that this upbringing gave him the abilities to become an astronaut, but also led to him to three failed marriages ending in divorced and a final fourth marriage. .<br />A few years after he enters high school, the United States becomes involved in World War II and upon graduation he joins the Navy's V12 program where receives pilot training and a college education.  Even though the war ends before he sees combat, he eventually chooses a career as Navy pilot which moves him through a variety of interesting assignments from patrol aircraft to test piloting.  <br />The remaining half of the book covers the selection process of the Mercury 7 group, the selection, the subsequent training and his eventual three-orbit flight.  This section contains much more information on the selection process and training of the Mercury 7 astronauts than any other first hand account.  Very little, however, is devoted to his post-flight life other than a few pages.  In this section, many of the questions that have dogged him since his selection are answered.  For example, \\"Why was he chosen especially when one compares his flight and test piloting record to those of his peers?\\" \\"Why did he only fly once?\\" and well as other question are addressed.  I'll leave it to the readers to discover the answers to these questions.  I promise you'll be surprised.<br />Those familiar with the Chris Kraft book, Flight, know that Mr. Kraft has an extremely low opinion of Scott Carpenter and his skill at piloting a spacecraft.  In this book, Scott Carpenter recounts his spaceflight, using both his personal recollection and ground to air and air to ground transcripts which allows the reader to make up his mind on who is blame.  It is has always been my opinion that the truth usually lies in between the two.<br />As I said earlier, I was amazed that the astronaut with the shortest amount of total flight time could actually write a book about his life as an astronaut.  I must, however, admit I was wrong and Scott Carpenter along his daughter have written a wonderful and extremely interesting book that definitely is one of the better astronaut biographies.	2003-01-29
US	45031108	R1HOJ3D593FUAK	0761323597	829424038	Venus (Worlds Beyond)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Book for Kids and Adults	Venus is the second planet out from the sun and the planet that orbits closet to our own planet. It is often called Earth's sister; however, numerous Russian and American robotic space probes have shown that Venus is covered with an extremely thick atmosphere (100 times the Earth's pressure) with clouds of sulfuric acid and surface temperatures that will melt lead; however, the surface of Venus is geologically very young.  In this book, the author and artist of numerous astronautical, astronomical and science-friction illustrations and texts, examines the latest scientific findings and theories about our nearest planetary neighbor.  In addition, the author also presents some of the mythology and historical observations associated with this planet.<br />While this book is geared towards teenagers, most adults would definitely learn something as well.  By the way, I found this book in my library's adult section.	2002-12-25
US	45031108	ROK7YR5HZLRTH	1896522599	738256815	Apollo 17: The NASA Mission Reports Vol 1: Apogee Books Space Series 29	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A bit of a Disappointment	If I could, I'd give this book four and a half stars, since it is really not up to the standards of the previous editions.  I gave it five stars, however, because others might not agree with my opinion on why it is not as good as the previous Mission Reports.<br />With the publication of this book, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have provided at least one volume of reproduced NASA material covering all of the manned Apollo missions.  As is obvious from the title, this latest offering, examines Apollo 17, the final mission to the moon.  Apollo 17 was the last of the three long duration (3 days) missions and again featured the lunar rover, which greatly extended the area that the two astronauts could explore.  In addition, this mission included the only non-pilot, scientist astronaut, a geologist in this case, to explore the moon.  The mission was commanded by veteran astronaut, Gene Cernan who was making his third trip into space, geologist and rookie Harrison \\"Jack\\" Schmidt accompanied Cernan to the lunar surface as the Lunar Module pilot and Ron Evans was the Command Module pilot.<br />Like many of the other volumes in this NASA Mission Report series, the book opens with the usual NASA mission press kit.  It is easy to tell that the author and his staff spent some time searching for some very clean originals, since compared to their earlier efforts, such as Apollo 8, the scanned in drawings are almost perfect.  Since this mission was the last lunar landing mission, it seems that NASA produced a much larger and more detailed press kit compared to its earlier Apollo mission press kits.  In addition to the customary background information, the press kit focuses on the scientific aspects of the mission including some nice information on the often overlooked orbital photography observations and in flight experiments.  The next section contains the Prelaunch Mission Operation Report, which presents a basic overview of the planned activities of the mission, including theEVA timelines.  It is interesting to note that the format of these timelines is still used today to plan EVAs for the space station assembly.  The next section presents the Post-Launch Mission Operation Report that provides a summary of the accomplished mission objectives and describes any Mission problems and deviations from these planned activities.  <br />The final section, the crew debrief section, covers about 40% of the book, and is 95 pages long.  This section contains the crew's comments and feelings about various phases of the mission from liftoff, to landing and even post flight activities.  This crew debriefing is fairly technical and uses a lot of undefined NASA acronyms, which makes the reading a bit difficult, even for this NASA contractor employee.  Very few pages in this section are devoted to the EVAs (8 pages) and orbital observations (4 pages) and all three astronauts go into great detail describing all aspects of their respective duties.  I found it quite odd, that with all the emphasis on the lunar exploration being conducted by an onsite geologist, that there would be such a small discussion about the EVAs and the geological investigations.  Reviewing the crew debriefing shows that Cernan and to some degree Evans dominated the conversations, while Schmidt only talked about specific areas like training.  All in all; however, an interesting section.<br />As typical of all the books in the Mission Reports series, the book contains a CD that includes additional material.  It is here that I felt the book let the reader (or viewer is this case) down.  Unlike the other books in the series, the CD does not contain any of the still photographs.  Instead it only contains complete video camera footage from the three EVAs and twenty-two panoramic views.  I would have preferred the still photos in lieu the video transmissions.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.  <br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.<br />3)  Many people have asked why the post mission reports are not included.  Since NASA has published several books with hundred of pages each (The NASA SP series), it would be difficult to included this voluminous amount of data.	2002-12-12
US	45031108	R22AOYA7RXFSPM	0932813909	987521630	Dark Moon: Apollo and the Whistle-Blowers	Books	1	117	179	N	N	Silly - No Science in this book at all	About two years ago, fox (deliberately not capitalized) aired a TV show about how NASA had faked the moon landings and I couldn't believe that with the great wealth of scientific and engineering data available that the moon landings were faked.  Since that time, I have become very interested in the Moon Hoax Conspiracy and have researched both sides of the arguments.  As an engineer with twenty years of research, design and development experience in the areas of heat transfer, thermodynamics and fluid mechanics research, I felt that I could provide an unbiased scientific/engineering evaluation of at least some of the claims.  One thing I should also add, unlike others who have probably provided a review without even having read this book, I can honestly say that I read this book from cover to cover (but boy was it hard to do).<br />The first thing the reader should notice in the prologue is that the authors make no claims that moon landings did not occur, just that the official record is not correct.  Quoting, \\"We are not claiming that astronauts have never walked on the Moon.  Our personal interpretation of the evidence is that surrogate astronauts were employed.  It is our further view that the famous named astronauts for example Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Ed Mitchell in all probability never left Earth orbit, ...\\"  These statements clearly imply that NASA had to create an elaborate hoax of massive portions to fool all worked for NASA and the billion or so people who watched the Moon landings live.  The reader should take note of one last thing; there is no opposing point of view from either NASA or the scientific/engineering community in this book, only non-scientific hogwash and deceptive writing (For an example, see the review provided by William O. Wood, a former NASA employee).<br />Since others have provided a review of this book, especially the entertaining review by Ed Boyes from Perth, Australia, I will comment some sections that were not covered inother reviews.  I think I should point out that on just about every other page I found something wrong or a complete misunderstanding of physics.  I'll just cover a few.<br />The first thing that struck me was how could a conspiracy of this magnitude, with 400,000 people and hundreds of companies working on the project, be maintained for over 30 years, without someone coming forward and saying that the landings were faked.  There are no whistle-blowers named in the book, at most just a few interviews with people who worked on the project.  In all the years since the last moon landing occurred, there has not even been a deathbed confession.  The authors of this book believe or at least want the reader to believe that only a select few were involved in creating the faked landings; however, thousands of engineers and scientists received data on vehicle performance, such as pressure, temperature, flow rates, acceleration and many other parameters that also had to be faked.  These data were compiled and evaluated by NASA and sent out to the appropriate engineers and scientists.  You can still download these engineering evaluation reports from several NASA websites or occasionally pickup an original on Ebay.  There are only two possible ways that NASA could have faked these engineering evaluation reports.  First, NASA had an alternative of group of engineers and scientist that provided fake data to all parties involved, but I don't how they could fool the thousands who actually designed and built the hardware and software and of course survive over thirty years of scrutiny.  The second possibility is that those thousands of people were in on the hoax too, but if that were the case, that would mean that a large number of people involved.  <br />On page 159 of the book, there is a photograph of the Surveyor 3 unmanned lunar lander probe on the lunar surface that was taken by one of the Apollo 12 astronauts.  The authors state that the vehicle should be covered with dust that was generated by the Lunar Module as it lands; however, the picture they present only shows the probe's surfaces that are facing away from the exhaust plume.  So of course, these surfaces are dust free.  If the authors had examined ALL the Apollo 12 photographs, they would have seen that the surfaces, which faced the Lunar Module (LM), are covered with dust.  Only presenting part of the story is Very Deceptive and Unprofessional!!!<br />On page 156, the authors attempt to convince the reader that exhaust leaving the descent engine should have produced a blast crater.  Again, the authors do a poor and incomplete job of researching this topic.  First of all they quote William Woods who states that the temperature of the exhaust gasses is 5000F.  It is important to note, by his own admission, William Woods is a communications expert, not a rocket engine designer.  This is the temperature of the gasses within the combustion chamber, this is not the temperature of the gasses that will impinge of the lunar surface.  One of principles behind a rocket engine is to convert the energy of a high temperature gasses into a velocity which in turn produces thrust.  Therefore, as the hot gasses leave the combustion chamber, they cool off thereby producing a fast moving jet of gas.  As a result, the temperature of the exhaust as it leaves the LM's engine is around 2700 F.  While this temperature is still high enough to melt rock, it is a far cry from 5000F.  Furthermore, there is no analysis to show that the short contact time for landing, around 5-10 seconds is enough time to melt the surface.  For example, I can stick my hand in a hot oven for 10-15 seconds and I barely feel it, and my blood doesn't start boiling.  Finally, if the authors had actually examined the historical record, they would have found that Buzz Aldrin of Apollo 11 fame, actually states in the Mission Report that the LM did in fact actually singe the lunar surface.  (You can get this report from several NASA websites, Apogee books, or sometimes it is for sale on ebay).<br />On page 153 the authors state \\"NO EXHAUST = NO HYPERGOLIC FUELS = NOT A TRUE RECORD OF AN ACTUAL LUNAR LANDING.\\"  For those that don't know, hypergolic fuels are liquids that ignite instantaneously upon contact with each other.  They have the advantage of not needing a sophisticated ignition system.  There are many different types of hypergolic fuels and as with all combustion processes, the color of the flame or lack of any color depends of the materials being burned.  Once again, the authors fail to provide a full account of all the relevant facts.<br />As one can, by these three simple examples that occur in just six continuous pages of the book, that there are serious problems with book.  Whether or not the authors were deliberately trying to deceive the reader, I cannot say.  My final thought is save your money and a buy a book or a movie that is written by people who understand, science and engineering.	2002-11-26
US	45031108	R3MCUFRINVR61Q	1842224980	72953917	Space	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Spectacular!!!!	Andrew Chaikin is best known for his classic book \\"A Man on the Moon\\" which describes the Apollo missions to the moon and was basis for the equally classic HBO series \\"From the Earth to the Moon.\\"  In his latest offering, Andrew Chaikin presents the history of space exploration from the early space pioneers, through the space race, to the latest space shuttle missions to the International Space Station (ISS) using numerous high quality, large format photographs and a very small amount of introductory text for each chapter.  I feel that this book will be another one of his classic space exploration books.<br />The book opens with a small discussion of the early space pioneers such as Wernher von Braun, Sergei Korolev and Robert Goddard, and their efforts to develop workable rockets.  The book then moves into the dawn of the space age and the race between Russia and the United States to achieve various \\"firsts.\\"  For example, the first satellite, the first probe to the moon or another planet and of course the first country to put a man into space.  After this portion of the book, the Mercury, Gemini, Vostok, Voskhod and early Apollo programs are examined.  The next section is devoted to NASA's exploration of the moon and contains many full page photographs.  To further emphasis the grandeur of these missions of exploration, there are several two page foldouts.  The next chapter of the book covers the early robotic exploration of the solar system, up to and including the Viking and Voyager missions.  The next portion of the book examines the space shuttle era.  It is here that I feel that the book should have included more.  While the space shuttle has been flying for over twenty years, there is less than twenty pages of shuttle related photographs.  The book concludes with the current robotic exploration of the solar system, some really excellent photographs from the Hubble Space Telescope and the construction of the International Space Station.<br />I only have two minor criticisms about the book.  First, most of the photographs are devoted to the space race up to the Apollo moon landings, with very little dedicated to the Space Shuttle and International Space Station projects.  Secondly, many of the photographs are ones that have been published before so there is very little new here.  Nevertheless, these two very minor complaints, are overshadowed by the splendor of the numerous high quality photographs is this book.	2002-11-21
US	45031108	R2P5Z9Z3CT2DFJ	007136112X	537333087	Off the Planet: Surviving Five Perilous Months Aboard the Space Station Mir	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Good Book About One Astronaut's Life Onboard Mir	Jerry Linenger is a former NASA astronaut who spent just over 132 days in space, most of it aboard the Russian space station Mir.  During his stay, Dr. Linenger accomplished many first for an American astronaut.  He became the first American to conduct a space walk from a foreign space station and in a non-American made spacesuit.  During this five hour EVA, he and his Russian crewmate tested the newly designed Orlan-M Russian-built spacesuit.  He and his crewmembers also performed a flyaround of the Mir in the Soyuz spacecraft, undocking from one docking port of the station and redocking at a different location.<br />While living aboard the MIR space station, Jerry Linenger and his two Russian crewmembers faced numerous difficulties, such as the most severe fire ever aboard an orbiting spacecraft, clearly the best written and most interesting section of the book, the failures of onboard systems (oxygen generator, carbon dioxide scrubbing, cooling line loop leaks, communication antenna tracking ability, urine collection and processing facility), a near collision with a resupply cargo ship during a manual docking system test, loss of station electrical power, and loss of attitude control resulting in a slow, uncontrolled tumble through space.  In spite of these challenges and the added demands on their time due to the repair work, they still accomplished all mission goals: the space walk, the flyaround, and the completion off all the planned U.S. science experiments.  All of these harrowing adventures and many others, plus the grind of his daily life aboard Mir, are recounted in this book.<br />I would have to agree with the numerous other reviewers that feel the Jerry Linenger has a big ego, but as someone who has had a lot of contact with astronauts over the years, his ego is only somewhat greater than the norm.  The first example of this personality trait, is the title.  The title states that he spend five months on Mir, but his stay on Mir, was just a little morethan 4 months (132 days total mission time minus the travel time to and from Mir, about five days).  There are lots of references to \\"I did ...\\" and he seems to forget that all of the hardware onboard any space vehicle has been designed for easy astronaut use to assure success.  I know because that's what I do for a living.<br />All things considered, this book is definitely one of the better astronaut biographies and covers a period of human space flight that is not frequently examined, the Space Shuttle era.  Furthermore, Dr. Linenger deserves kudos for writing the book himself.	2002-11-04
US	45031108	R1UBYLQL6W583D	0071400095	539668387	Letters from MIR: An Astronaut's Letters to His Son	Books	4	5	13	N	N	A Bit Odd in Places	Jerry Linenger was the fourth NASA astronaut of a total of seven who served aboard the Russian space station Mir. His mission lasted from January 12, 1997, till May 24, 1997 giving him a total of 132 days in space. At the time, this was the longest duration flight of an American male. During his stay, Jerry Linenger became the first American to conduct a space walk from a foreign space station and in a non-American made spacesuit. He and his two Russian colleagues also performed a \\"fly around\\" in the Soyuz spacecraft, undocking from one docking port of the station, manually flying to and redocking at a different location. While living Mir, Linenger and his two Russian crewmembers faced numerous difficulties, the most severe fire ever aboard an orbiting spacecraft, failures of onboard systems and a near collision with a resupply cargo ship during a manual docking system test. These tales and many others are recounted in his other book, \\"Off the Planet: Surviving Five Perilous Months Aboard the Space Station Mir.\\"<br />In his latest offering, Dr. Linenger recounts these events as well as many others, using personal letters sent, via e-mail, to his 14 month old son and a few to his wife and mission control. It is quite clear from these letters that he was very proud of his young son, missed him and his wife a great deal and that he felt extremely isolated and alone. Several of the letters I found very refreshing, such as the need to honest (especially in this day and age); however, I also found many of the letters to be rather strange. Dr. Linenger goes into a great amount of detail about the equipment on the Mir, such as heat rejection system and the carbon dioxide removal system. I doubt most high school students could understand what he was trying to say. Maybe it's me, but if I were going to write letters to my toddler son, I would keep the technical descriptions simple. I would want him to be able to read my letter say by the time he was ten. The very technical sections within the book also take away from the general tone of the book of his isolation, missing his son, wife and the planet Earth. One letter to mission details his concern about safety, almost a foreboding of things to come on the next mission with Michael Foale.<br />I also found two glaring errors in the book. First, the liftoff thrust of the shuttle is not 7 million lbs, but 6.6 million lbs. Second, his description of the orbital mechanics is described incorrectly.  He states, \\"We go faster in order to get up higher. As we slow down, our orbit lowers.\\" The exact opposite is true. The lower the orbit the higher the velocity and the higher the orbit the slower the velocity. For example, communication satellites that are essentially stationary over the Earth (one orbit per day) are at an altitude of 23,000 miles. The space station, which orbits the Earth every 90 minutes, is at an altitude of 250 miles. As an astronaut, he should know better.<br />In conclusion, if you want to know what happen to Jerry Linenger aboard Mir, read his other book, \\"Off the Planet: Surviving Five Perilous Months Aboard the Space Station Mir.\\" If you want to know how he felt orbiting the Earth and his feelings of isolation, get this book.	2002-11-03
US	45031108	RI6LSJV64WKRG	1896522874	363021889	Women Astronauts: Apogee Books Space Series 25	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Missing Some Important Material About Being An Astronaut	In the past four years, Apogee Books has compiled a variety NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race, focusing primarily on the race to be the first country to land a man on the moon.  For the latest installment in the Apogee Space series, the author examines a facet of space exploration that was missing during the Apollo era.  That is, women astronauts.  One important thing to note, as stated by the author on the back cover, this book is geared towards girls and young women and as such the book is a bit light on technical details.<br />The book opens with a nice overview of a typical space shuttle mission and living on orbit and covers such things as sleeping, eating, clothes, working, etc.  The book then covers an early woman in space program called FLATS - First Lady Astronaut Trainee, which was a program to examine the possibility of putting women into space in the 1960's.  Here, the book, unlike some other texts on the subject, accurately presents the FLATS program as only a medical study of several female subjects undergoing the same medical tests that the NASA astronauts did and not a parallel program to the all-male Mercury program.  It is important to note that the FLATS could have lead to women in space, however, the program was killed by the Johnson Administration.  Next, the book presents, a chronological history of women in space and all their achievements.  The book then presents one to two page biographies on all the women astronauts (Russian, NASA and other countries) that have flown and all the candidate astronauts.  The section encompasses approximately 60% of the book.  The book then concludes with an extremely interesting section on space medicine related to women and what it takes to be an astronaut.<br />While I feel that this book is a worthy additional to the series, I also feel that the author left out several important aspects of these astronaut's careers as well as what they do at NASA when they are not flying in space.  One of the first things that struck right was the lack of information describing the military careers of these astronauts.  For example, many of these women have had impressive military careers such as test pilots and have achieved a high military rank.  Even though flying in space is the most visible and probably most exciting part of an astronaut's job, their duties consist of much much more.  For example, astronauts are involved in spacecraft design, training, spacesuit design, biological experiments and the list goes on and on.  A description of this aspect of their job is not presented.<br />As is typical of the books in the Apogee Space Series, it contains a Compact Disc that includes approximately eight hours of interviews with several women astronauts. Interviewed astronauts are:  Ellen Baker, Kalpana Chalwa Eileen Collins, Bonnie Dunbar, Anna Fisher, Linda Godwin, Ellen Ochoa, Heidi Stefanyshyn-Piper.	2002-10-26
US	45031108	R3E2LKI7RHR0AB	0786804890	992257082	First on the Moon (An I Was There Book)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Book for Kids and Adults	Apollo 11 was the fifth manned Apollo flight, third Apollo flight to the moon and the first mission to land two men, Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong, on the surface of the moon.  This book, written for ten to twelve year olds, describes the adventure of Apollo 11 from the launch, through the docking, moon landing, and return to earth from the point of view of Buzz Aldrin's oldest child Jan Aldrin who along with NASA chief historian Roger Launius, helped write this book.<br />Unlike a lot of books on the moon landings that cover in great detail the training, flight experience, marriages, etc of the astronauts, this book refreshingly opens with Buzz Aldrin and his daughter standing on top of the launch tower viewing the rocket (Saturn V) that will take him, Neil Armstrong and Mike Collins to the moon.  The book then proceeds to the liftoff, docking with the Lunar Module, voyage to the Moon, lunar landing, the voyage home, and splashdown.  Throughout the book, there are numerous sidebars, which describe in more detail, various aspects of the mission.  For example, there are small sections, on \\"Becoming an Astronaut,\\" \\"Space Food,\\" \\"The Saturn V\\" and many others as well.  In addition to the text, there are many high quality photographs that bring to life the first moon landing.<br />While this book is geared to ten to twelve year olds, I feel that many adults will also find this book enjoyable as well, because of its well written text and great photographs.	2002-10-03
US	45031108	R2DS1XU0Y138Z4	0028642821	676163480	The Complete Idiot's Guide(R) to NASA	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Only covers space exploration and nothing else about NASA	First of all, I'd like to say that I had a hard time rating this book.  I thought about giving the book anywhere from two to five stars.  Even though, the book is extremely well written and very easy to read, I ended up giving it just three stars, since it only focused on a portion of NASA's activities, such as Apollo era manned space flight, mostly pre-Challenger Space Shuttle activities and unmanned planetary explorations.  The book is totally devoid of any information related to how NASA operates, their research into aeronautics, space vehicle development and on and on (about a half a page total).  In other words, the reader only gets a glimpse of NASA's activities.  Furthermore, the book contains more than a few non-typographical errors, such as vehicle performance, launch dates, etc., which the author, a former astronaut, and the editor should have caught.  If the book had titled something like \\"The Complete Idiot's Guide to the Exploration of the Solar System,\\" I'd have probably given it four or four and a half stars, because it is quite well written and is based on the author's (former astronaut Tom Jones) interesting and highly entertaining personal experiences.<br />The book opens with opens with a brief description of the author's four Shuttle flights and what he did of each mission.  After this introductory chapter, the author describes how rockets works (Newton's laws of motion), the early pioneers and what it takes to become as astronaut.  The book then proceeds into the early attempts of both NASA and the Russian Space Agency to put the first manned and unmanned vehicles into space.  The book then presents NASA's effort to put the first man on the moon, from the first Mercury flights to the last Apollo mission.  After this long section, which compromises approximately 50% of the book, the remainder of the book summarizes NASA's manned and unmanned adventures since Apollo, such as Skylab, the International Space Station and the Space Shuttle.  <br />Even with the absence of information on NASA aeronautical and space vehicle development programs or even something on its general management style, I found the book to be quite enjoyable, since it is based on the author's fascinating and highly entertaining personal experiences as an astronaut.  It provides a great summary on much of NASA's manned and unmanned space missions including hardware such as space suits and space food.  The chapter dealing with the development of astronauts' meals was extremely interesting and I doubt if I have ever found so much information about this topic located in a single source.<br />In conclusion, if you're looking for a well written, entertaining and concise history of NASA's manned and unmanned endeavors to explore the solar system, this book is a very good start.  On the other hand, if you're looking for a book about NASA, what it does and how it operates, this book is not for you.	2002-08-15
US	45031108	R13OZ7X9S86W1L	1852332166	431352851	Neptune: The Planet, Rings, and Satellites	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great Book, Plus a lot on the Voyager Missions	Neptune is the eighth planet in the solar system, the last gas giant and the last planet of any real size.  Due to its great distance from the sun, everything that we knew about this planet, until Voyager 2 visited it in 1989, was determined by telescopic observation.  In this book, the authors, who both worked on the Voyager science team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, summarize the discoveries made by the spacecraft, the spacecraft's design and the discoveries made by telescopic observations.  As with all the books published in the Springer-Praxis, Astronomy and Space Sciences series, there are numerous high quality photographs, line drawings and graphs in this book.  Other than a few children's books, I believe that this is the only text, which covers Neptune in any detail.<br />The first quarter of the books examines the pre-Voyager findings from Galileo's possible sighting, to its modern discovery that was determined by mathematical methods and its possible origins.  The next portion of the book, which is also approximately one quarter of the book, covers the development of the Voyager probes and their subsequent discoveries at Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus (Voyager 2 only).  The remainder of the book focuses on the Voyager 2 encounter with Neptune in 1989 from the long-range pre-encounter observations to the post encounters studies.  In this large section of the book there are discussions on everything from, rings and satellite discoveries, radio science, the moons, the moon Triton and its atmosphere, cloud structure and much more.  <br />A few final thoughts.  First, if you don't have a great summary the Voyager mission, this book definitely provides it.  Secondly, even though I have a technical background, I found some sections, especially the chapter of the magnetic fields a bit too technical.  With that said, this book is definitive text about the planet Neptune.	2002-07-26
US	45031108	RHLSAYGNXEPT0	0961122803	999897309	All We Did Was Fly to the Moon (History-alive series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Neat Little Book	Much has been written about the Apollo moon landings, from astronaut biographies to highly technical books requiring an advanced degree.  In this book, however, the author focuses on a much different topic.  Here, for each mission he covers how each spacecraft was named and how each crew patch was designed.  In addition to this well researched topic, the books also presents reproduced newspaper front pages that give you the feel for the excitement of the times as well as presenting numerous color and black and white photographs.  The book also covers the Skylab, Apollo-Soyuz Test Project and the early Shuttle landing tests.  The final section lists all the contactors and sub-contractors that developed various components for the Apollo program, a very welcomed and hard to find list.  While some may feel that moon landing patch designs and spacecraft names is an odd topic for a book about this great adventure, this book will surprise you on how good it truly is.	2002-07-23
US	45031108	R1KKZWRNG3VXT3	0803261829	285257825	Teacher in Space: Christa McAuliffe and the Challenger Legacy	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Wonderful and Extremely Well Researched	While much has been written about the engineering and management decisions that lead up to Challenger explosion, the mission, the Challenger crew and the whole Teacher in Space Program have received much less attention.  In this book, the author, Colin Burgess, only devotes a few pages to the accident and focuses primarily on the teacher in space program, Christa McAuliffe, her teaching and NASA experiences and of course the aftermath of the accident.  Since the book was written well close to fifteen years after the accident, it avoids much of the sadness, anger and the like which dominated many of the early works on this subject.  As a result, the author gives us a wonderful book about the life and times of Christa McAuliffe and the Teacher in Space Program.  There is also closing chapter on the next Teacher in Space Candidate, Barbara Morgan, who should fly sometime this decade.<br />As someone who lives across the street from the Johnson Space Center (JSC), it is quite obvious to me that the author spent a considerable amount of time researching her life and experiences at JSC, since all of the places, buildings, etc., are named correctly (using the names in 1986), located in their proper places and the astronaut training she received is as it should be.  In other words, not only are you getting a wonderful well written book, it is also well researched. <br />One final thing to add, the book contains 32 pages of color pictures and all royalties from the book go to the Christa McAuliffe Fund.	2002-07-20
US	45031108	RSNPLRFTANMZ9	1887750401	233446099	Apollo Support	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Different Side of the Space Program	During of the 1960's and early 1970's, the author, Franklin S. Myers, worked for the General Electric Company, supporting the Apollo moon landing project and because of this, I suspect that much of this book is based on his experiences living on the Gulf Coast during this time.  Using the Apollo program as the setting, the book follows the career of Frank Evans, an unemployed worker, who applies and then gets a job working as a NASA contractor worker supporting the Mississippi Test Facility, which today is known as the Stennis Test Facility.  Even though the book is a work of fiction, the events, places, names, NASA facilities, etc., are correct which gives the story a good touch of realism.  For example, there are some very nice and accurate descriptions of the Kennedy Space Center launch sites and of hurricane Camille that devastated the area in 1969 right after the first moon landing.  Furthermore, as a transplanted northerner myself, I feel the author captured the subtle cultural differences that exist between the north and the south.<br />While this book may not be a great book about the Apollo program, it does provide a good insight to what many workers did behind the scenes and what their families endured.	2002-07-17
US	45031108	R28IEU7BQL3MW6	1852332026	158787811	Creating the International Space Station (Springer Praxis Books)	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Excellent Overview of the Building of the ISS.	I have worked on various aspects of the International Space Station (ISS) from hardware design, maintenance and EVA operations for over thirteen years and I found this book to be an extremely well researched overview of the design and construction of this massive space project.  For those readers looking for detailed descriptions of the engineering designs of the ISS, this book does not contain them and only provides the most general of descriptions (at least from my point of view as a NASA engineer).  It does, however, provide an excellent summary of the history, on-orbit operations, and construction, of what has been termed \\"The greatest engineering project in the history of mankind.\\"<br />As one would expect, the book opens with a historical overview of the world's first space stations: NASA's Skylab and the Russian's Salyut 1, and covers the lessons learned from these early endeavors.  After these introductory chapters, the next section examined the successful Russian Salyut series of space stations that set many endurance records and demonstrated that complex on-orbit repairs are possible.  In contrast to the Russian effort during this time, the NASA space station efforts were directly primarily at numerous paper studies.  <br />The book next moves into the development of the US Space Station Freedom (SSF) projects, from the go ahead directive given by President Ronald Reagan, through the first George Bush years till its finale during the first year of the Clinton administration and covers all the early designs like the Dual Keel through the various Clinton redesign Options.  While many may view the SSF project as mainly a paper study, it is clear that this project had a significant impact on the final design, development and operation of the ISS.<br />Again, in contrast to NASA's paper studies, the Russian space program had successful on-orbit programs with the Salyut space station and the Mir.  These programs continued to show that humans could easily work inspace by performing routine maintenance and emergency repairs.  It should be noted that the cosmonauts aboard Mir still hold the endurance record over a full and continuous year in space.  I should point out, as is documentation here, that a lot more has happen in the Russian space program, both good and bad, than is ever reported in the press.<br />The final section of the book, which is approximately half of the book, examines the construction of the ISS from the Shuttle-Mir partnership to the final mission of 2001.  This portion of the book thoroughly examines the inclusion of the Russians into the NASA project and the various problems that occurred during the early stages of this joint venture including funding and numerous cultural differences.  Once these problems had been over come, the book chronicles, in great detail, each ISS construction mission from liftoff to landing (or burn up for the Progress resupply missions).  For each mission, the authors cover liftoff and any associated problems, the crew, the Extra-Vehicular Activities (EVAs), what was added, maintenance, crew rotation, etc.  This book is so complete that I expect it will become the standard outlining the construction of the ISS for years to come.<br />A few final thoughts.  As is typical of the Springer-Praxis series of astronomy and space exploration books, this book also contains many numerous high quality photographs and drawings, which I come to expect from this publisher.  Furthermore, it avoids most of the NASA-ese use of acronyms to describe just about every piece of hardware.  I found only one minor error and that was only related to the naming of an EVA construction tool.  And finally, since the ISS is a work in progress, the book only covers those missions completed by the end of 2001 and in the future will either need to be updated or have a second volume.	2002-07-16
US	45031108	R3HLBAPPS8R151	0963397451	754901867	Space Shuttle: The History of the National Space Transportation System The First 100 Missions	Books	5	41	41	N	N	The Most Comprehensive Book About the Space Shuttle	While many books have been written about the historical development of the Space Shuttle, this book is without a doubt the best and most thorough of all.  In addition, to the comprehensive text, the book contains hundreds of black and white and color photographs as well as numerous line drawings to further help the reader understand this marvelous space vehicle.  Roughly the first 40% of the book covers the developmental history of the Space Shuttle from the early designs of Sanger, Bredt and von Braun, though the X-planes and Dyna-Soar to the many numerous NASA designs of which there are several hundred.  These first 200 hundred pages far eclipse any other book on the subject and focus on the engineering side of the project and avoids most of the political discussions that accompany most other books on the subject.  The next 60-70 pages cover the development of the present Space Shuttle.  After this large introductory section, the book examines the first 100 mission of the Space Shuttle, including the Challenger accident and all the changes made to the Shuttles to improve flight worthiness.  The final sections provide very technical descriptions of all aspects of the space shuttle from the landing gear, the thermal control system, the heat shields and much, much more.  While I can't comment about the technical accuracy of all these sections, for those sections that I'm familiar with, the thermal control system, the environmental system and EVAs, I couldn't find anything wrong.<br />One final thing to add, in my over ten plus years working as a NASA contractor at the Johnson Space Center, I would say that I have referred to this book more than any other when I'm looking for information about the Space Shuttle, whether it is just general information or something more technical.	2002-07-06
US	45031108	RZJIVXGH9LAQ4	1896522858	854766612	Apollo 11: The NASA Mission Reports  Vol 3: Apogee Books Space Series 22	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Buy it for the DVD, but don't forget about reading the book.	Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have, over the past three years, compiled a variety NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race, focusing on the Apollo missions. This time, they have released a third volume of information dedicated in the first lunar landing of Apollo 11, which includes a DVD of the lunar EVA and an excellent companion NASA publication. Apollo 11 was the only the third manned mission to the moon. This mission was commanded by Neil Armstrong who was accompanied to the surface by Buzz Aldrin with Michael Collins as the Command Module pilot. This latest entry deserves at least 6 stars and two thumbs up.<br />As is evident from this reviewer's comments as well as all of the other reviewer's comments, the primary reason to purchase this book is the DVD. This two-sided DVD contains the entire video and 16mm footage, plus many still pictures of the first moonwalk on one side and the entire 16mm camera footage on the other. It is clear to me and I'm sure from anyone who has watched this DVD, that this compilation was clearly a labor of love and to date is the most impressive video of any of the lunar EVA explorations that I have ever seen. What makes this DVD so impressive is that the producer has combined the video, 16 mm camera footage and audio transmission into one single presentation. This combined presentation, clearly allows the viewer comprehend all the activities that were undertaken during the Apollo 11 moonwalk. Furthermore, when one of the astronauts takes a still picture, the image appears on the screen and gives the viewer a clear idea of how, by whom and where the picture was taken. Regardless of whether or not you were alive to see the first moon landing live on TV, you definitely can relive the excitement of that wondrous time by watching this DVD.<br />The book that accompanies the DVD is a reprint of the Apollo 11 Mission Report prepared by the Mission Evaluation Team from the Manned Spaceflight Center in Houston. This report is essentially the scientific and engineering evaluation of the Apollo 11 flight. In these pages, there are many figures that show a comparison between a predicted value and an actual flight value (how much was used vs. how much was estimated). The lengthy report is over 200 pages long and covers all aspects of the mission, from liftoff, lunar landing, the moonwalk, the experiments, and the return to Earth. It also contains a fairly long chapter describing all of the flight anomalies (problems). Even though I've studied this mission and its moonwalk in depth, I was amazed at the number of problems that occurred during the flight to the moon. While some readers may the report's writing a bit dry in some places, they are actually getting a view of how NASA operates and why their exploration programs for the most part are quite successful.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1) This report is a scanned-in documents from a previously released NASA document. In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed. <br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to \\"The Watch\\" an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.	2002-07-06
US	45031108	R2P146PL922SZ4	1896522580	300361029	Apollo 16: The NASA Mission Reports Vol 1: Apogee Books Space Series 23	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Keeps Getting Better and Better	Over the past three and a half years, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have compiled a variety of various NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race and specifically the Apollo missions.  As is obvious from the title, this book focuses on the Apollo 16 moon mission.  Apollo 16 was the second of three long duration (3 days) missions and again featured the lunar rover, which greatly extended the area that the two astronauts could explore.  Veteran astronaut John Young who was making his fourth trip into space commanded this mission, rookie Charlie Duke accompanied Young to the lunar surface as the Lunar Module pilot and Ken Mattingly was the Command Module pilot.<br />Like many of the other volumes in this NASA Mission Report series, the book opens with the usual NASA mission press kit.  It is easy to tell that the author (and I guess his staff) spent some time searching for some very clean originals, since compared to their earlier efforts the scanned in drawings are almost perfect.  In addition, to the customary background information, the press kit focuses on the scientific aspects of the mission including some nice information on the often overlooked orbital photography observations.  The next section contains the Pre-Flight Mission Operations Report, which presents a basic overview of the planned activities of the mission, including the EVA timelines.  It is interesting to note that the format of these timelines is still used today to plan EVAs for the space station assembly.  The next section presents the Post-Launch Mission Operations Report and describes the Mission problems and deviations from planned activities.  <br />The final section, the crew debrief section, covers over half of the book, is 160 pages long.  This part contains the crew's comments and feelings about various phases of the mission.  Unlike a lot of the previously published crew debriefings, this one is fairly technical and uses a lot of undefined NASA acronyms.  Most of the pages in this section are devoted to the EVAs and orbital observations and all three go into great detail describing all aspects of their respective duties.  For example, John Young explains at great length his removal of his EVA suit and Ken Mattingly descriptions of his orbital photography mission take over five pages. One thing that I found extremely interesting is that John Young and Ken Mattingly dominated the conservations, with Charlie Duke just filling in the holes.  This is opposite to the image of these astronauts.  Typically, John Young and Ken Mattingly are portrayed as the quite ones, while Charlie Duke is the talker.<br />As usual the book also contains a CD that is loaded with a variety of interesting features.  The CD contains over 2500 photographic still images, unfortunately in a low resolution format, numerous high resolution panoramas and the complete video camera footage from the three EVAs.  The CD also contains a nice 25 minute interview with John Young.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.  <br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to \\"The Watch\\" an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.<br />3)  Many people have asked why the post mission reports are not included.  Since NASA has published several books with hundred of pages each (The NASA SP series), it would be difficult to included this voluminous amount of data.	2002-07-02
US	45031108	R353OG77YGTDTT	188595946X	695897024	Margaret Thatcher - Britain's Fighting Lady	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Collection of Audio Transmissions from the Apollo 13	As is evident by its title, this Cassette contains some of the audio transmissions from the Apollo 13 mission.  The Apollo 13 mission was the third attempt to land a crew on the lunar surface; however, due to an explosion onboard the Command Module, the landing was aborted and the crew returned safely to the Earth after many trails and tribulations.  The tape presents the transmissions in chronological order and of course contains the most famous quotes from the mission.  For example, &quot;Houston we have a problem&quot;,&quot; one whole side missing&quot;, and &quot;Farewell Aquarius&quot;.  In general, I feel that most space buffs and those studying the Apollo 13 mission would find this tape fairly interesting, but the short length of the tape, 35 minutes, (plus a 6 minute speech by JFK) is hardly good coverage of a flight that lasted 8 days.<br />This cassette is also available on Compact Disc.	2002-06-30
US	45031108	R223H39T636J6G	0813025370	387297495	Before This Decade is Out?: Personal Reflections on the Apollo Program	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Collection of Interviews from the Apollo Moon Mission Era	This book, originally publishing in 1999 as NASA Special Publication, SP-4223, contains fourteen interviews from various people who describe their activities at NASA during the Apollo era.  These interviews cover the entire spectrum of people involved in this project, from flight controllers, the top management, two astronauts and even a secretary.  More than half the people interviewed for this book have never published anything which recounts their times at NASA, so this book maybe the only source to find such information.  This book made me realize that many of the people involved in the Apollo project have passed away and soon the only link to this amazing adventure will be these types of historical records.  While I'm not a big fan of books that simply publish interviews, I found this book to be very easy to read and high enjoyable.  I recommend this book to anyone who wants to see a more behind the scenes look at the moon landing effort or who wants to see a more personal side to NASA. <br />The interviews contained in the book are as follows, James Webb (NASA Administrator), Thomas O. Paine (NASA Administrator), Wernher von Braun (Rocket Genius and Marshall Space Flight Center Director), Bob Gilruth (Manned Spaceflight Center Director), George E. Mueller (Associate Administrator of Manned Spaceflight), Gene Kranz (Flight Director), Arthur Rogers (Director of Stennis Space Center), James Guin (Rocket Engine Test Engineer), Glynn Lunney (Flight Director), Geneva Barnes (Secretary in Public Affairs Office), Charlie Duke (Astronaut), Harrison Schmitt (Astronaut), George M. Low (Manager of the Apollo Spacecraft Program Office), and Max Faget (Spacecraft Designer/Engineer).<br />One added bonus is that the book contains an annotated bibliography of the Apollo Project which lists approximately 35 books, some of which are quite technical and others which are simply astronaut biographies.	2002-06-29
US	45031108	R3B8YCC8UUPP1W	1551580004	586387717	Canada from Space	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Very Nice Book of Space Photography	Many space photography books have been published that show a wide variety of geological features, ocean currents, cloud structures and human impact on the land, such as Orbit by Jay Apt and the Home Planet by Kevin Kelly.  However, due to the restrictions of orbital mechanics associated with Space Shuttle Flights as well as all other US manned space flight, most of the pictures taken by these crews, cover the latitudes between North 45 degrees and South 45 degrees thereby excluding a fair portion of the Earth's landmasses.  In this book, the author, using the remote sensing Landsat satellites, shows the reader a variety of Canadian landscapes using quality color photography.  I believe that this is the only book to date that deals exclusively with space photography of Canada.<br />After a brief introduction describing Canada's use of remote sensing, the book presents 48 full-page color pictures highlighting Canadian landforms, farmlands and cities, with accompanying text and its location on a map of Canada.  Some typical photographs include: glaciers and glaciated land, impact craters, mountains, farmland, cities, the Great Lakes and the coastal shorelines.  I personally found the pictures of the impact craters and the glaciers quite interesting and very impressive.  While I'm sure that the author could have presented many more pictures of his country than he did, he has given the reader an excellent overview of the diversity of landscapes in his country and I feel like visiting right now to see first hand what I saw in the book. <br />If you're tired of all the space photography books that cover primarily the United States, you should be pleasantly surprised with this book that provides some unique remote sensing observations of our neighbor to the north.	2002-06-24
US	45031108	R31WGGE77MDAXH	0374423563	786333021	Flying to the Moon: An Astronaut's Story	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Children's Version of a Classic Astronaut Autobiography	Michael Collins was a NASA astronaut from 1963-1970. During that time he flew on two missions: Gemini 10 and Apollo 11. These two missions, along with his training and military career are described in great detail in his earlier book \\"Carrying the Fire\\" which is geared for an older audience. This book is essentially same as \\"Carrying the Fire\\", but written with a younger audience in mind. However, I feel that many adults would like this book as well. You can't beat the price either, 4.95$ for any book is a great bargin<br />The book opens with Collins describing the day of the first moon landing and then he begins to reflect on all the events that led him to be on Apollo 11 that day. The first few chapters of the book describe his earlier fascination with aircraft that ultimately led him to join the US Air Force. After an interesting and exciting career in the Air Force, which included being a test pilot at Edwards Air Force Base, he is chosen to be an astronaut in the third group selected. After years of training he eventually lift offs on his first flight in Gemini 10 with John Young. After more training and a nearly career-ending neck operation, he flies on Apollo 11.<br />Through out this book, the author describes his feelings and experiences about being an astronaut, what it's like to fly in space, what he did, what he saw and all the numerous sacrifices he and his family made so that he could be an astronaut. His experience of being alone while orbiting the moon is exhilarating. All this done in a very non-technical and jargon free way. <br />One final thing to add, this book won several Outstanding Book of Year Awards.	2002-06-22
US	45031108	RWS6PCP4OA2D2	1858686059	690237660	One Giant Leap: The Extraordinary Story of the Moon Landing	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Small But Enjoyable Book on the  Space Race to the Moon	The author, Tim Furniss, is a prolific author of twenty books about spaceflight, spacecraft and the space program in general, as well as the author of numerous magazine articles about various aspects of space flight.  In this book, the author presents an overview of the space race from the launching of the first Russian and US satellites until the first moon landing of Apollo 11, using numerous photographs, artist's renditions and graphs and a reasonable amount of supporting text.  Even though much of the book, about a third, focuses of the first moon landing of Apollo 11, the remainder of the book covers the space race up to this point.<br />While many of the NASA photographs are the classic pictures from the Apollo program, the book also includes a good number of rarely seen pictures from the testing and buildup phases, as well as some photographs taken by the unmanned robotic explorers sent to the moon, which I found quite interesting.  Oftentimes, the testing and buildup stages of any space launch is ignored and I found it refreshing the author did not forget this important part of the Apollo program.  Furthermore, unlike many other texts on the USSR-US space race to the moon, this author provides many fascinating pictures of the Russian hardware, such as the N-1 moon rocket and the Vostok, which better helps depict the space race.<br />One final thought, I found the last chapter, \\"Where are They Now?\\" which describes the moon walkers post-Apollo lives, a fitting tribute and ending for the book.<br />Even though Amazon lists this book as no longer in print, I have seen this book still for sale at several local bookstores.	2002-06-08
US	45031108	R10GPBRRGZAIWP	0306447681	171852264	The Superpower Space Race: An Explosive Rivalry through the Solar System	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good but needs more information on Mars exploration	While most of us know of the space race between the United States and Russian to be the first to get a satellite and man in orbit, this book in describes in great detail the competition between the United States and Russia to explore the Moon, Mars and Venus using robotic probes.  While the book only covers the period from 1957 to 1995, it is not that outdated, because the Russian robotic space exploration has been essentially dormant, since 1995 and there have been only three new US probes to Mars (as of 2002).<br />As one would expect, this book is divided into three main sections about the exploration of the Moon, Venus and Mars; however, the book is completely devoid of any information related to outer planet exploration (Jupiter and beyond) or Mercury.  The first half of the book is devoted to the race to be the first country to send a robotic probe to the Moon, the first to land on the Moon and the first to orbit and the subsequent exploration that followed.  During this early period of lunar exploration, due to their heavy lift launch vehicles, the Russians accomplished many first such as the first lunar impact, the first photograph of the far side and the first lunar landing.  On the other hand, the US program suffered many early failures, especially with the Pioneer and Ranger series of robotic probes.  Once these technical were fixed, NASA while not achieving many firsts in the robotic Moon race, did in the long run provide the most detailed robotic exploration of the moon using its upgraded Ranger, Surveyor and Lunar Orbiter space probes.  <br />After the section on the lunar exploration, the book moves into the exploration of Venus.  Unlike the exploration of the moon, the first probe to successfully to reach Venus and return useful data was Mariner 2 launched by NASA; however, much of the early scientific data about this planet was obtained by the Russian Venera probes.  These probes achieved produced the first comprehensive surface maps, the first landing and the first pictures and from the surface.  One unique aspect of the Russian investigation of Venus was the release of two balloons which to date are the only balloons released on any planet.  In contrast to the Russian effort, the US exploration has been sparse: one low resolution radar mission, four atmospheric probes and one high resolution radar mapper.  Even with this dearth of exploration on NASA's part, the most recent US mission, Magellan, has produced an extremely detailed map of Venus.<br />The final sections on the exploration of Mars were very short, even though the US exploration has been quite successful, with three flybys, three orbiters and two landers which have produced a mountain of data and photographs.  Even though the Russians have not had a fully successful Mars mission, I felt that the author could have greatly expanded the section on Mars just using the data obtained from NASA..<br />All in all, this book is well researched especially when it comes to the Russian exploration of the solar system.  In addition, to the text, the book also contains approximately 100 high quality photographs and lines drawings which make the book quite enjoyable and a useful reference.	2002-05-25
US	45031108	R1AIGYU51JOLVO	1552091597	439206999	USA From Space	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Good Book for Kids and Adults	Contained with the pages of this small book are many outstanding photographs of the USA taken from space by a variety of orbiting spacecraft.  The photographs chosen for this book, cover the very diverse geological features of the United States from the Rocky Mountains, Grand Canyon, Great Lakes and Cap Cod.  In addition, there are some really nice photographs of the cities and the farmlands of the United States.  To improve the presentation of the photographs, each photograph's location is shown on a map along with a picture taken from the exact location.  It is interesting to see how different things appear from a couple hundreds up than from being there on the ground.<br />While this book is geared for grade school children, I feel that many adults would find this book enjoyable as well, since the photographs, both those from Earth's surface and those from space, are extremely interesting and provide an excellent overview of the landscapes in the USA.	2002-05-09
US	45031108	R2O7I5SDHXSGW1	0880703075	387863086	Destination: Moon	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Nice Moon Landing Book for the 10-12 Year Old Crowd	Jim Irwin was the Lunar Module Pilot on the Apollo 15 mission to the moon and became the eight man to walk on the moon.  Prior to this book, he had written two others books (To Rule the Night and More than Earthlings) about his adventures in space; however unlike this book, these books were geared for the adult audience.  <br />In this book, the author, writing in the first person, describes his life from slightly before the time he applied to be an astronaut, his selection as an astronaut, his training and his eventual trip to and from the moon.  There was a fair amount of material dedicated to the training needed to be an astronaut and moon walker, more than I've seen in the usual astronaut biographies.  The book also includes many photographs in both color and black and white, to help the reader understand Jim Irwin's life and times at NASA.	2002-04-20
US	45031108	R2HQ54L0X5U3X6	0765605376	800030244	Echoes Among the Stars: A Short History of the U.S. Space Program	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Concise History of the Early US Space Program	First of all, let me state that the subtitle of this book should really be something like, &quot;A Short History of the Manned US Space Program up to 1975,&quot; since there is very little information on the Space Shuttle and International Space Station programs and almost nothing on unmanned missions.  About half of the book concentrates on the Apollo program.  On the flip side, there are some nice discussions on the competing Russian programs.  I think a good rating for this book should be 3 stars if you're a space nut and know a lot about the space program and 5 stars if you're a novice space nut.  Regardless of your level of space knowledge you'll find this a well written and easy to read book.<br />The book opens with a small chapter on the early unmanned space race to place the first satellites in Earth Orbit.  The book then movies into the Mercury and Gemini programs and presents the competing Russian projects.  The section on the Gemini program presents a good summary of each mission, its problems and accomplishments and shows how this program proved many of the concepts, like docking, needed to make Apollo the success that it was.<br />The next few sections of the book cover the Apollo missions to the moon and the various steps of the program.  The first chapter covers the Apollo 1 fire, the subsequent investigation and changes made to the vehicle.  I found this chapter especially refreshing since it avoided the gruesome details of the astronauts' deaths which is not always the case with some books on the space race.  The next section covers the precursor missions, Apollos 7-10, which led up the first moon landing which, of course, receives its own chapter.  The next two chapters cover Apollo 12 - 17 and provide some very good summaries of these missions.  It is interesting to note that during these times, the comparative Russian manned space program is almost at a complete standstill.<br />After the moon landing chapters, about half of the book, the Skylaband Apollo-Soyuz Test Project are discussed.  I found the section on Skylab extremely disappointing.  Here was a program that more than doubled US spaceflight time and which conducted many important micro-gravity related experiments, yet it only receives six page of text, less than half that of the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project chapter.  The final chapter of the book covers the last 27 years of manned flight and only examines the most important missions.  It just seems that the author ran of steam covering everything that happened after the moon landings took place.	2002-04-18
US	45031108	R3PN0LGM7LK6PQ	1896522823	257782804	Gemini 7: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 21	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another Good Book in the Series	Over the past three and a half years, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have compiled a variety of various NASA documents, press kits, crew interviews and the like, which recount the early days of the space race and specifically the Apollo missions.  As is obvious from the title, this book does not focus on the Apollo moon mission, but on its predecessor, the Gemini missions and in particular Gemini 7.  Gemini 7 was commanded by Frank Borman and with James Lovell (of Apollo 13 fame), as it is pilot and set an endurance record of 14 days, which was not surpassed until Skylab.  This mission also included the rendezvous with Gemini 6, which was the first time that two vehicles met in orbit and was a precursor to the Apollo dockings in lunar orbit.<br />Unlike other volumes in the series that open with the usual NASA mission press kit, this book opens with some hard to find NASA Fact and Educational Sheets and two press releases.  Even a cursory glance of these small introductory documents shows the competition between NASA and the Russian space program by indicating that with at the conclusion of the Gemini 7 flight, NASA's spacecraft time and total man-hours in space will surpass the Russians.  The next section of the book contains the usual NASA press kit.  The press kit contains information on the medical experiments that were to be conducted, some of which sounded quite unpleasant, the flight plan and a large section of docking maneuvers.  I found it amusing that the press kit even contained information on the meal plans for each astronaut.  Afterwards there is a brief, but extremely interesting report of the tracking network.  The next sections contain the pre and post Mission Operations Directorate reports on the mission and some really nice line drawings of the vehicle.  Basically, these are the press kits for internal NASA use.  There are also some nice general information post-launch NASA fact sheets.<br />The crew debrief section, which is about 90 pages long, contains the Borman's and Lovell's comments and feelings about various parts of the mission and for the most part avoids the technical NASA-ese language.  A good portion of the crew debriefing seems to be devoted to the medical experiments (and others as well), Earth observation, the Environmental Control System and general crew comfort.  I'd expect this report to focus on these topics, since this 14-day mission was a test to determine if humans could endure the time it takes to get to the moon, explore and return to Earth.  There is a lot discussion about the military's involvement in the project, more than I thought.  I always find the crew debriefing quite enjoyable, because it is the closest thing to being there and you get two or three first had view points of various aspects of the mission.<br />I also found the CD as enjoyable as ever.  It contains a nice 15 minute interview with Jim Lovell, a NASA film on the mission and over 400 photos of the Earth.  While many of the photos are low resolution, there are still really good and high resolution photographs are outstanding.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.  <br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books and documents.<br />3)  Many people have asked why the post mission reports are not included.  Since NASA has published about ten books with hundred of pages each (The NASA SP series).  Specifically, &quot;On the Shoulder of Titan,&quot; &quot;Earth Photographs from Gemini VI through XII&quot; and &quot;Gemini Mid-Program Summary&quot;	2002-04-10
US	45031108	RL3U3UHXNW81H	0801865999	154405428	Taking Science to the Moon: Lunar Experiments and the Apollo Program (New Series in NASA History)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fine Book on the Apollo Scientific Experiment	While much has been written about the Apollo missions to the Moon, most of these books have focused on either the spacecraft the got us to the Moon (Moon Lander or Stages to Saturn) or the astronauts (autobiographies by Collins, Cernan, Aldrin) and to a lesser degree, Mission control and the flight controllers.  Furthermore, thousands upon thousands of scientific and technical papers have been and are still be written from the data collected by the various experiments that were conducted on the lunar surface.  The story of how these experiments got to the moon, which ones were chosen and why, the people who developed this experimental packages and the internal NASA struggles to even get these experiments to the Moon has never been documented, at least in much detail.  In his book, the author, Donald Beattie who was the program manager for the Apollo Lunar Surface Experiments, details all decisions, meetings, NASA in-fighting and the like that got these important, and initially overlooked surface experiments on the flights to the Moon.  The author draws upon his extensive library of NASA memos, publications and the like to craft a really fine book.<br />The book begins with the usual background information of the author's pre-NASA career where he worked for a major US oil company in South America.  After hearing about the space program, on a whim he decides to apply for a position and after several unsuccessful attempts, he lands a position at NASA headquarters in Washington D.C helping to plan the missions and experiments that will be used.<br />After this introductory section, the books covers the conceptual designs for both the Apollo missions and post-Apollo missions that were planned, the inclusion of the United States Geological Survey to plan the missions and analyze the data, and training of the astronauts to perform various scientific tasks.  After these sections, a good portion of the book is devoted to the J-series lunar missions (Apollo 15, 16 and 17) andall the training and hardware that was developed to support them.  The book even covers the often overlooked Command Module on-orbit photographic survey, which provided some of the most detailed photographic of the Moon's surface.<br />While each page of this book is loaded with a lot of very interesting and I would say previously unpublished information, I found the parts of the book which examine the working relationships between the NASA centers, the most interesting.  I was dumbfounded to find out that several people at the Manned Spacecraft Center felt that they should be designing and developing the experimental packages for the lunar surface operations even though they were engineers and not scientists.  Fortunately, the upper NASA management decided that the design of these packages should be left to the scientists.<br />In final chapter, &quot;The Legacy of Apollo&quot;, the author summarizes what was learned from the Apollo mission to the Moon, what it cost and mostly importantly, what it all meant.  That is, people working together can solve very difficult problems and reap great rewards, whether they are scientific or philosophic.	2002-01-24
US	45031108	R2CRF5R20E3IY7	0966796144	63720179	Who's Who of NASA Astronauts	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Most of this information is available for free elsewhere	For me, this is a difficult book to review, because as one reviewer has already pointed out, most of the information presented in this book is available at several NASA websites for free.  The NASA sites also include nice photographs, links to other NASA information and are continuously updated.  In some cases, the information presented in the book is taken word for word from the NASA sites.<br />On the flip side of things, a book like this is readily available, portable and good for those you do not have computer access.  Futhermore, the information presented on the former astronauts, especially those from the Apollo era, is not always available at the NASA sites.<br />In general, I'd say that if you are interested in owning and reading a book that contains good biographical summaries on all the NASA astronauts, this book is for you.  If you just want a book for a quick reference now and then go to the NASA sites.	2001-12-12
US	45031108	R3DWB9JMKPM2MZ	0304350699	295803533	Patrick Moore on Mars	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Book for Astronomers, OK for Space Enthusiasts	Patrick Moore is a prolific author of many books about space, astronomy and the solar system.  In this book he covers the both the telescopic and robotic observation of the planet Mars.  I feel that if astronomy is of interest to you, you will like this book, but if you are looking for information on the robotic exploration of Mars, you will only find a brief summary here.<br />The first half of the book is devoted to the historical telescopic observations of Mars over and presents numerous hand drawn pictures made over the centuries including some of the many Martian &quot;channels&quot; pictures.  Patrick Moore also includes one of his own drawings.  After this section, the remainder of the book focuses on the Russian and American efforts to explore the red planet and its satellites, and concludes with the possible manned exploration in 20-30 years.  Included in the second half of the book are:  Mariners 4, 6, 7, 9, the Viking probes, Mars Pathfinder, Mars Global Surveyor and the numerous Russian Mars Series probes.<br />One thing I found extremely interesting about this book is that Patrick Moore knew the first man to achieve powered flight (Orville Wright), the first man in space (Yuri Gargarin) and the first man on the moon.  He may have even met the first person to walk on Mars.	2001-12-10
US	45031108	R1NVTO1ETH0RCG	0792237145	822174867	Orbit: NASA Astronauts Photograph The Earth	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Another Great Space Book From National Geographic	Astronaut Jay Apt, with the help of geographer Justin Wilkinson and climatologist Michael Helfert, has assembled a book full of pictures of Earth taken from orbit.  These photographs were chosen from over a 145,000 that are available from the NASA photographic library and focus on many different aspects of our planet's geology and climate.  The large coffee table style format and the high quality of the reproductions allows this book bring out the stunning features of our home and is welcome addition to anyone who is interested in space photography, especially since most of the book is photographs and very little text.<br />The book is divided into sections covering each continent, the Pacific Ocean and the aurora.  To show the range of Earth's geology and climate, each section highlights the major geological features found in each region and if appropriate mankind's influence.  To further emphasis to geological diversity of the planet, occasional surface photographs that correspond to an orbital photograph are also included.  For example, in the section on Africa, there are photos of the Nile, Nile cities, the Sahara desert, various coastline features and cloud formations.  The only portions of the Earth not covered are the North and South Poles, since the shuttle does not fly over these regions.  There is also one extremely interesting two page map spread which shows the location of each one of the 268,000 photographs taken by the astronauts.<br />This book is one of my favorite space photography books and I look at it often and each time that I do I always notice something different.  This is a great book and well worth the price.	2001-12-08
US	45031108	R3S8W3Q2J21TU	1896522572	906431836	Apollo 15: The NASA Mission Reports Vol 1: Apogee Books Space Series 18	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Another Great Book From Robert Godwin And Apogee Books	This book appears to have been released to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Apollo 15 mission and contains a great deal of information about this extremely important lunar exploration mission.  This mission was the first extended duration lunar exploration mission (3 days on the Moon's surface) and featured the lunar rover, which greatly extended the area that the two astronauts could explore.  This Apollo mission is considered to be one of humanity's greatest voyages of exploration.  David Scott commanded the Apollo 15 mission and contributes a few introductory pages.<br />The book opens with the usual NASA mission press kit.  Unlike the earlier Apollo 14 press kit, this press kit is significantly larger, due to the increased emphasis on the scientific exploration of the Moon.  The next portion of the book contains an excellent section titled &quot;On the Moon With Apollo 15.&quot;  This section focuses on the geology of the Hadley Rille/Apennine Mountains landing site, the science experiments that will be conducted on the surface and the equipment and tools that will be used to accomplish these tasks.  This portion of the book was published separately by NASA in 1971 and a used copy now sells for around 25$.  The next section of the book, the Pre-flight Mission Operations Report, presents an overview of planned timelines (work plan), while the next section, the Post-flight Mission Operations Report, presents the actual timelines, points out the discrepancies between the two timelines and describes any problems with the hardware <br />The crew debrief section, which is about 100 pages long, contains the crew comments and feelings about various parts of the mission and for the most part avoids the technical language that many of the NASA documents include; however there are several sections where the crew practically talks in acronyms.  The crew debrief contains crew comments from the suiting up phase to the landing, plus comments about the training (did itor did not help the crew).  Dave Scott and Jim Irwin dominate most of the crew debrief, since most of the questioning and mission focused on the lunar surface operations; however, Al Worden has a lot to say about his photographic survey of the moon and his deep space EVA (the first one ever conducted).  I always find the crew debriefing quite enjoyable, because it is the closest thing to being there and you get two or three first had view points of various aspects of the mission.<br />The enclosed CD (be careful it is hard to get out) contains a lot of color and black and white photographs, several NASA films and an extremely interesting feature on the development of the Lunar Rover.  <br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.<br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books.<br />3)  Many people have asked why the post mission reports are not included.  Since NASA has published many books with hundred of pages (The NASA SP series), and the data from these missions is still being analyzed, it would be impossible to do.	2001-11-28
US	45031108	RCIPJI871QELU	1896522696	212036543	Space Shuttle STS 1 - 5: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 16	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Good Addition to the Series	This book, released to coincide with the 20th anniversary of the first space shuttle launch, contains a great deal of information about the development test flights of the space shuttle and its first operational (non-test) flight.  While some readers may not find this book as interesting as the Apollo Mission Reports that have been already been released by Robert Godwin and Apogee books, it does contain a lot of information about the shuttle, its crews and its payloads.  The book also contains a lot of nice figures and photographs, especially on the first flight, as well as a CD that contains 700 color photographs and 2  hours of crew press conferences.<br />The book opens with the Approach and Landing Tests (ALT), which were conducted approximately 4  years before the first launch of the space shuttle, and provides some really interesting information about flying piggybacked airplanes.  This was and is the method used to transport the space shuttle orbiter after launch.  The next section of the book, which takes up about 40% of the book, covers the first flight of the shuttle.  The rest of the book covers the three remaining test flights and the first operational shuttle flight, which had a crew of four.<br />Even though I work at the Johnson Space Center and have participated in some form or another in many shuttle launches, I found many parts of the book very interesting and informative.  For example, it was interesting to see that George Abbey, the future administrator of the Johnson Space Center, dominated the questioning of the first crew's debriefing.  There is also a lot of material on the various abort scenarios, which are absent in the press kits, which are released for the current missions.  For me, one of the most interesting parts of the book was the charts that showed the crewmember's mission schedules (time-lines).  These same figures/charts are still used today.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.<br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced documents.	2001-11-06
US	45031108	R1ZX8D27MI3VA9	1896522815	418410460	Rocket And Space Corporation Energia: Apogee Books Space Series 17	Books	5	10	10	N	N	History of the Russian Space Program in Awesome Photographs	Unlike the NASA Mission Reports published by Apogee Books and edited by Robert Godwin which are loaded with many technical reports, other documents and crew debriefs, this latest entry about the Russian space program contains very little text, but is instead loaded with numerous photographs, technical drawings, cut-away-views, and artist sketches.  Also, in contrast to the other Apogee Books publications, this book does not focus on a single aspect of space flight, but on the history of the Russian space program and specifically the Energia Corporation.  While some may feel that this book is just another collection of space pictures, it is not.  The photographs presented here tell the history of the Russian space program and have been chosen such that they present a great deal of general technical information.  If you are interested the history of the Russian space program or the race to land a man on the moon, you can't go wrong purchasing this book.<br />The book opens with several small sections of text.  One section is from the two editors of the book (the English and Russian) and the other section presents a brief history of the Energia Corporation.  After this brief introduction, the remainder of the book presents the history of the Russian space program from its earliest days to the present.  The picture section begins with the Russian space program after World War II and the use captured German hardware to begin the development of their ballistic missiles.  It is quite easy to see that the Russian launch vehicles are direct descendants of the German launch vehicles.  The book then moves on to the first artificial satellite, Sputnik, and the manned spaceflight program, which enabled the Russians to put the first person, Yuri Gargarin, into space.  After this group of photographs, there are others that cover, planetary exploration, the development of the Soyuz capsule and its derivatives, the Soviet lunar landing program, the Russian space shuttle, Buran and of course to the Mir space station.<br />I found the sections of the Russian lunar landing program extremely interesting.  While its easy to see the parallels between the US and Russian efforts, they developed some noticeable and unique methods to get a cosmonaut to the Moon.  Additionally, the parts on the development of the Soyuz family of space vehicles and on the Buran space shuttle were equally engrossing.  One interesting facet of the Russian space program that I gleaned from this book is that in the past 55 years the Russians have had only four different leaders.<br />This book was originally published in Russian by the Energia Corporation and translated into English.  Furthermore, the photographs are not some faded Xeroxed pictures, but are high quality prints.  I also feel that many of these pictures have never been released to the West or possibly never released at all.	2001-10-26
US	45031108	RGQ15CTOPB7DD	0737304693	324399071	Into Outer Space : An Exploration of Man's Obsession and Interactoin with the Cosmos--Fact and Fiction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	History of Space Travel in Pictures and Art	This relatively small book, imported from Great Britian, presents the history of space travel from the early works of Kepler, Copernicus and Tycho Brahe to the International Space Station and proposed Lunar and Martian bases in high quality pictures and artwork with some well written supporting text.  Most of the classic photographs from space age have been included; however, there are many rarely seen photos, especially those from the Russian space program.  Also included in the book are a few sections devoted to science friction movies and books, which I considered a nice touch.<br />For this reviewer, I found the section on the development of the V-2 rockets very interesting, which included a few paragraphs on how the Polish Resistance captured one and sent it to the British.  This was a story that I had never heard before.  There are also some very nice pictures from this era.<br />All in all this is good book.	2001-10-23
US	45031108	RT3UTIX3WNCZV	0521800196	455178137	Beyond Pluto: Exploring the Outer Limits of the Solar System	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Summary the Latest Findings of the Kuiper Belt Objects	In school most of us were taught that the last planet in the solar system is Pluto and there is nothing beyond but the vast emptiness of space.  That is, at least until we reach the next star system.  However, as the author points out in his book, the latest astronomical findings of the past ten years clearly show that there are many small objects (minor planets) that orbit beyond Pluto, which are also part of our solar system.<br />The book opens with a chapter devoted to the initial theoretical studies, which attempted to prove the existence of these distant objects years before they could be observed.  The next two chapters examine two edge-of-the-solar-system objects, the short-period comets and the Centaurs (small bodies which orbit near Uranus and Neptune).  The book then moves on to the long years spend by many astronomers trying to observe one of these objects and then characterize its orbit.  Of course, once one was found many others where then discovered.  After these sections, the book covers the effort to characterize the physical parameters, such as diameter, albedo, chemical composition, etc., of these objects and how they are formed and reformed (due to collisions with neighboring bodies).  The book concludes which a section on future exploration of these objects and a subtle plea from the author to rename the Kuiper Belt after the man who first postulated its existence.<br />In general, I found this book to be quite interesting, especially the sections on the astronomers who devoted years of their life trying to find these objects.  I do feel that some non-technical people may find this book a little overwhelming due to several graphs and the use many technical terms.	2001-10-20
US	45031108	R3KS1BHRHWLLZL	0151055564	590165238	Mission: An American Congressman's Voyage to Space	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Surprisingly Good	I've read a lot of books about the space programs of the world and I figured that this book would be just another average book about the space program, especially when one considers that the author is a United States Congressman, but I was pleasantly mistaken. I was expecting something more like John Glenn's autobiography, but it takes a lot just to figure out what party he belongs to.<br />Unlike a lot of other astronaut biographies which present a lot of information about pre and post flight life, Bill Nelson spends very little time writing about his past and only a brief section about growing up in the area and that his descendents owned the area around the Kennedy Space Center. He devotes a substantial number of pages to, his selection and training, the Challenger accident and about his hopes and dreams for the future of NASA and international cooperation.<br />Bill Nelson's flight was the last space shuttle flight before the Challenger accident. Even though he was only a payload specialist, basically a passenger assigned to run a few experiments, he describes the incredible amount of work that he went through just to prepare for his flight. He describes crew training, physicals, flying in the KC135, which is able to provide about a minute of zero-gravity free fall, simulations and numerous launch scrubs (more than any other shuttle mission to date). He also presents a lot of information about the Challenger crew, one he was almost part of, but due to internal NASA problems he was reassigned to an earlier flight. The book also covers a lot of the behind the scenes actions at the Johnson Space Center and the Kennedy Space Center and he praises many of the unknowns that make the space program works. For example, Jay Greene, Doug Ward, Carolyn Huntoon and George Abbey<br />Since he was originally schedule to flight on the Challenger mission, I found his view on the accident extremely interesting and one, which I have never heard before, and one, which doesn't get much press. While he does attribute the Challenger explosion to the failed Solid Rocket Motor joints, he believes that political problems with the NASA administrator were one of the main causes for the Challenger accident. Specifically, James Beggs, the NASA Administrator was under investigation for over charging the government when he was at General Dynamics (he was later cleared) and he had to take a leave of absence. The Deputy Administrator, a non-aerospace engineer, took over and the author feels that his lack of experience, such as not even attending the liftoff, had a major contribution to the explosion such as not canceling the launch. He believes that James Beggs would not have allowed the launch to occur.<br />This book may not be for everyone, but I think a lot of people will find this book interesting, especially for the behinds the scene descriptions of the space program and the lack of political rhetoric. <br />All proceeds from the book go to charity.	2001-10-01
US	45031108	R3PN6C2OTWRU9C	0688099289	50300358	Mars	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Short but Good Book about the Planet Mars	Even though this book is a bit dated, since it was written in 1987 before the recent Mars Pathfinder and Mars Global Surveyor missions were even dreamed of, it does contain a lot of interesting information and photographs about the Planet Mars and the Viking Project.  If readers are looking for more recent material about the planet Mars, Seymour Simon, has written a new book in 2000 titled Destination Mars.  It's basically an updated version of the current book.  Finally, while this book is geared towards children, I feel that many adults will find the text and the photographs quite interesting.	2001-09-15
US	45031108	R2C9ZXDV60NX93	0072401710	850481661	The Lunar Base Handbook (Space Technology Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Latest Engineering Concepts for Lunar Base Development	In this book, Peter Eckart has assembled the collective writings of many of the leaders who are developing advanced engineering and science concepts for a return to the moon and the establishment of a permanent lunar base, which is capable of exploring the moon in great detail.  These writings are not reprints from a conference or a previously published paper, but a detailed summary of the work to date on a variety of subjects from the site selection of a lunar base and the transportation means to get to the moon, to the details regarding advanced exploration and regenerative life support systems.  The book also includes the more mundane systems needed to make a lunar base function, such as the thermal control system and the communication system.<br />While portions of this book maybe overly technical for some readers, there are numerous sections that provide a general overview of equipment, lunar exploration history, and transportation techniques.  There are two sections, one written by Buzz Aldrin and one by Jack Schmidt that describe in great detail various aspects of lunar exploration.  Typically, most astronauts authored writings found in books are simply a page or two.  All in all, I couldn't find a topic that was omitted from the book.<br />I also conducted a comprehensive review of several sections of the book, which are related to my engineering area of expertise.  Specifically, I reviewed the thermal control system, power system, EVA, and life support sections.  In all these sections, I only found one error, which appeared to be a typo.  The lone error leads me to believe that other sections were equally as error free.<br />In summary, I always enjoy reading books like these, because they show that even though the US government does not support going back to the moon, many individuals are still committed to returning people to the moon.  Finally, regardless of your technical ability, you can learn a great deal from this book.	2001-09-10
US	45031108	RNP4IQOPFXMDJ	0816514437	86679631	To a Rocky Moon: A Geologist's History of Lunar Exploration	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Geologist's View of the Apollo Missions to the Moon	Don Wilhelms was a member of the Apollo Scientific Team and the US Geological Survey. In this book he describes his role, along with his geologist colleagues, during the Apollo explorations of the Moon. In addition, he presents a brief history of the theories associated with the origin of the moon and its craters, the people and problems involved in the section of the Apollo landing sites, a discussion of the geological results obtained from each of the Apollo landing sites, and finally a summary of the findings from the Apollo missions and the development of a theory to explain the formation of the moon.<br />The book opens with several chapters that describe the early telescopic observations of the moon and the competing theories explaining the moon origins. Specifically, there was the cold formation/capture theory and the hot formation/formed with Earth theory. After this thorough explanation of the development of these theories, the author covers the early robotic exploration of the moon conducted by the Ranger, Surveyor and Lunar Orbiter probes. From these missions, it was determined that the majority of the Moon's craters were probably created by meteoroid impact. Within these sections, the author also describes the landing site selection process.<br />Except for the concluding section and appendices, the remainder of the book (approximately 50%) covers in detail, the geological exploration conducted by the astronauts at each landing site and the results obtained. Since the early flights to the moon, Apollos 11, 12 and 14, were shorts stay, the book emphasizes the extensive geological exploration conducted by the Apollos 15, 16 and 17 missions. These missions included an electrically powered car, which greatly extended the areas of the moon that the astronauts could explore. These final missions were also supported in real time by a scientific support room staffed with many highly skilled geologists that helped to direct the astronauts during sample collection.<br />I found this book to be highly enjoyable and its covers an aspect of the Apollo program that is usually not covered in great detail. That is, the people behind the scenes who helped make this project the great success that it was. On the flip side, some readers may find the book a bit too technical, especially with all the geological terms and the small amount of the supporting diagrams and figures.	2001-08-29
US	45031108	R1LUYPRTKADWEN	0792274911	604449058	Other Worlds: The Solar System And Beyond	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Another Good Photo Book of Space by National Geographic	Over the years, the National Geographic Society has produced many excellent books about the exploration of space such as Mars by Raeburn and Golembek and Orbit by Jay Apt.  This time they have chosen some of the best photographs obtained from the various NASA probes to the planets and the Hubble space telescope.  Most of the book is filled with many high quality photographs (all color) and includes only some supporting text.  For this reviewer, the small amount of text was a nice bonus, since it increased my viewing pleasure.  I found this book to be a good addition to my collection of space related books.  <br />Approximately two-thirds of this book covers our sun, its planets and the minor objects like asteroids and comets.  The book contains the latest photographs from the Mars Pathfinder, Mars Global Surveyor and Galileo space probes as well as the many classic photographs taken during the early years of the space program.  The final third of the book contains deep space photographs mostly taken by the Hubble telescope.  These photographs examine many of the more famous deep sky objects, like the Eagle and Helix Nebulae, but also include numerous galaxies and super novae photographs.  Again, the latest and highest quality photographs are shown here.<br />If you like a book that is filled with many high quality photographs of our solar system and deep sky objects, this book is for you.	2001-07-27
US	45031108	RHSYKQS79ZUF6	1896522807	897430569	Freedom 7: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 15	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Another Great Collection of NASA Documents and Photographs	Once again, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have compiled a great set of NASA documents about the early era of manned space exploration. This time, as the title indicates, he has chosen Freedom 7. This mission was the first NASA manned mission and made Alan Shepard the first American into space.<br />This book contains many interesting documents, which I have previously read only in parts. It contains the invitation and requirements needed apply for an astronaut position, a transcription of the press conference for the first introduction of the Original Mercury Seven astronauts, a pre-flight press release, and four post-flight reports. I found all of these documents extremely interesting.<br />From the transcript of the introduction of the Original Mercury Seven astronauts, it was easy to see who would be the eventual leaders from this first group of astronauts: Glenn and Shepard with Slayton and Schirra next. These two men did the most talking and embellished all their answers. As usual, I found the post-flight debriefing the most interesting section of the book. Here, Alan Shepard describes his experiences during his missions and is asked many simple questions which almost seem ridiculous forty years later. For example, &quot;Could you swallow?&quot; or &quot;Could you hear?&quot; Readers should, however, not be discouraged in reading this section, since there are many photographs and drawings to aid the reader.<br />There is also a section in the book titled &quot;Results of the First United States Manned Suborbital Space Flight&quot; which is fairly technical, especially the medical portions. This part of the book provides a technical description of the flight, how various spacecraft systems worked, a great deal of information on the astronaut's performance and numerous medical tests and results. All in all, an extremely interesting and well-written section.<br />Finally, there is a CD that contains, a NASA movie about the Freedom 7 mission, some footage taken during the mission, three press conferences (it's amazing how young everyone looks) and the NASA publication &quot;This New Ocean&quot; (in pdf format). Again, some more great stuff.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1) These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc., In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.<br />2) Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation. In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books.	2001-07-25
US	45031108	R123GX0H8IFJ6M	0195217268	816906148	Mars: The Mystery Unfolds	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not for the Casual Reader	Dr. Peter Cattermole was a former lecture of Geology at the University of Sheffield and a former principle investigator for NASA's Planetary Geology and Geophysics Program.  As one would expect from a person with this background, this book presents a geologist's view of the planet Mars.  Unfortunately, if one is not a geologist or versed in the sciences, this book maybe difficult to follow.  Even this reviewer, who is an amateur geologist and well versed in a variety of engineering and science disciplines, could only read a few chapters at time (sometimes only a paragraph) without having to put the book down and reflect on what I had learned.<br />Each chapter of the book covers a different aspect of Martian geology.  For example, there are chapters on craters, dunes, polar regions, the weather and climate, plus many more.  There are also sections on the two moons of Mars and a summary of the robotic exploration of the planet.  While there were times when I  I had to put this book down to digest all the information I had read, I can definitely say that I learned more than I ever have about the planet Mars.<br />While the text maybe difficult for some people to follow (including this reviewer at times), there are numerous high resolution black and white photographs as well as some nice color photograph maps which present the many varied geological terrains that exist on Mars.  Many of the photographs I have never seen published before, especially those from the Viking orbiters.<br />The author does provide a detailed reference list of over two hundred separate sources, which will allow the reader to thoroughly a specific topic.  I found it refreshing that the author chosen only a few of his own papers for reference material, which does not always happen.<br />In summary, if you know geology, like high quality space photography, are out for a challenge, or want to learn a whole bunch about Mars, this book is for you	2001-07-19
US	45031108	R3LPT9MG7UH6HN	185233391X	252485248	The Rocket Men : Vostok and Voskhod, the First Soviet Manned Spaceflights	Books	5	27	27	N	N	Excellent - High Recommended	Over the past few years Spring-Praxis has begun publishing high quality books about various aspects of space exploration, ranging from robotic missions to human exploration.  This book is latest entry in series and continues the tradition of providing high caliber books.  This time, the book focuses on the development of the Russian space program and the early flights (both men and women).  While the book covers all the usual Russian firsts, like the first man and women crew into space and the first EVA, there are also a lot of other firsts, like the first civilians into space, which are covered as well.  This truly an excellent book and presents a lot new information in a relatively non-technical way.<br />The book is divided into four main sections.  The first section deals with the early Russian space pioneers, like Tsiolkovsky, and the development of the ballooning programs.  The next section, which is the largest section, focuses on the Korolyov (The Chief Designer) and the development of the early Russian space program.  The third section covers the early human space flight missions and the final section examines the unmanned vehicles that followed.  Occasionally a few paragraphs about the US program are presented, to allow the reader to better gauge the Russian progress.<br />The first section of the book examines the early space flight theories of Tsiolkovsky and the early Russian pioneering efforts in stratospheric ballooning with the goal of trying to set a new manned altitude record.  Two important benefits that came about due to these efforts were the development of pressurized suits for low altitudes and the understanding of parachuting fundamentals and parachutes clubs, which were ultimately applied, to the Russian space program.<br />The next section covers the Russian space program after World War II and the use captured German hardware to begin a space program.  From these initial test flights, the Russian were able to begin development their ballistic missiles.  The books presents the progression of the Russian missile program from the German V-2 through the Russian R-7, and it is easy to see that the Russian launch vehicles are direct descendants of the German launch vehicles.<br />The main section of the book focuses on the development of the early Russian space program, both manned and unmanned and contains a lot of information about the chief designer, Sergie Korolyov.  The section of the books cover the construction of the Baikonur launch facility, the artificial satellite program, the development of the Vostok capsule, crew training, crew selection and loads of other stuff.  I found the parts about the selection and construction of the Baikonur launch facility extremely fascinating.  While it was in part chosen for its remoteness, it was also chosen that in the event of an abort, the launch vehicle could come down Russia and in relatively unpopulated areas of Russia.  The construction crews faced a lot of hardships and death, but eventually after several years of hardships, the facility was completed.  Also included in this section are detailed descriptions of the crew selection and training and ultimately their flights into Earth orbit.  It is impressive to see than the Russian cosmonaut program paralleled the US effort and in many cases surpassed NASA.  Specifically, the choice of women and civilians for spaceflight happened years before NASA even considered doing so.  While some of the motivation behind these efforts may have political, these efforts were nevertheless carried on with success.<br />The final section of the book covers the unmanned flight since the Vostok and Voskhod missions.  It was extremely interesting to note that many of the unmanned Earth orbiting Russian satellites even up to the most recent launches are based significantly on these early designs.<br />This is one of the best books I've read on the early Russian space effort with the only possible exception being Jim Oberg's Red Star in Orbit.  It covers all the aspects of the development of the Russian space program and present a lot new information.  Highly recommended!!!!!	2001-07-14
US	45031108	R3TEGN145J2N5B	157322166X	196655403	Voyage to Mars: NASA's Search for Life Beyond Earth	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Behind the Scenes Book about Mars Exploration	While Laurence Bergreen's book &quot;Voyage to Mars&quot; does contain some information about Mars space missions, robotic probes, and scientific study of Mars, it is primarily about the scientists, both men and women, who study Mars and design experiments for NASA robotic explorers and how they dedicated their lives to the study and exploration of this planet.  Most of the book covers the people involved in Mars research since the Mars Observer failure in 1992.<br />This book follows the lives (personal and professional) of several NASA scientists who study Mars, whether they're off in some remote location studying geology that's similar to Mars or designing an experiment for a robotic exploration mission.  The book includes the many battles that each one fights, whether is with NASA bureaucracy, their personal lives, with each other for experiments to be flown on an upcoming Mars spacecraft, or dealing with each other's conflicting theories on Martian geological history.  One of the things that I gleaned from reading this book is that while each of the people maybe specialized in a given area, they all have a board background in planetary sciences and spacecraft design.  Also, there seems to be a lot jealously between scientists, especially for those people who worked on the &quot;Life on Mars&quot; Rock.   It was also nice to see that a good portion of the people that NASA employs are women.<br />Since I've known several of the people involved in Mars research who are described in this book for over a decade, I can definitely say that the stories presented are true and I found the personal descriptions of various individuals to be dead on as well as those of NASA facilities.  The book could, however, benefit from some photos and illustrations instead of the detailed of various Martian geological features.  It also would have been nice to some parts of the book devoted to the engineers who help make these missions possible, but that might be an inappropriate topicfor this book.	2001-06-29
US	45031108	R3T9R0AU9IAK2A	1557091447	873292778	The Tower Treasure (Hardy Boys, Book 1)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The First of a Classic Series	I first read this book when I was twelve years and it was one of the first of many Hardy Boys I read.  Unfortunately, in my youth I read the 1960's version, but this version, written in the 1920's, is much much better (I'm 39 now and read it to my son).<br />I think the most interesting thing about this book is that a lot of the problems that today's parents/teachers/politicians complain about are the main topic in this story.  Without giving away the storyline, it has car jacking, crime, violence, false judgments of youths, neglected children and murder.  I guess it just goes to show that the good old days weren't always what they seem to be.<br />Briefly the storyline is as follows.  A rich person house is broken into and jewelry, money, and bonds are stolen.  The Hardy boys investigate and find out that this burglary is related other things going on in town.  Eventually, the boys with the help of their father solve the mystery.<br />A nice bonus for this book is that for those of you who always wanted to know about Franklin W. Dixon, a very brief biography is presented.	2001-06-29
US	45031108	R3JXM6KIEVUUWJ	0788118498	731103043	The Problem of Space Travel : The Rocket Motor (The Nasa History Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent Summary of 1920's Space Flight Theories	This book, written by Hermann Noordung in 1929, was first published in German.  Many years later, it was translated into English and published by NASA in 1995.  Its NASA designation is NASA SP-4026.  Some readers may find this book very difficult to read, since it contains engineering formulae and assumes the reader knows some basic scientific principles.  Furthermore, all the figures are labeled in German and only contain English translations in the Figure title blocks.<br />While the title of the book indicates that it focuses on the rocket engine, only a modest portion of the book actually deals with the rocket motor and most of the book is dedicated to presenting the current knowledge and theories (in 1929) on space travel.  The book opens with discussing gravitational attraction and the difficulty in escaping Earth's gravity field.  The book then leads into the physics of the rocket motor and different types of the launch vehicle configurations, such as balloon assisted launches, rocket planes and multi-stage rockets.  After these opening sections, the books contains numerous paragraphs on space based research and construction.  For example, the author examines space station, the potential effect of weightlessness on the human body, space science, airlock designs, solar power and many other topics that are still being debated today.  Even spaced based weapon designs were shown.<br />As a technical person, I found this book to be very interesting.  I was amazed so see that many of the problems associated with space travel were addressed and conceptual designs were presented in the 1920's.  Some of these concepts were ultimately incorporated into our nation's space vehicles.  For example, the design for the NASA's International Space Station Airlock bears a striking resemblance to the Noordung's Space Station Airlock shown in his book.  On the flip side, reentry heating was only given a very modest overview, even though this effect had proven to be one the most difficult problems to solve for the Space Shuttle.<br />While I thoroughly enjoyed this book, I feel that those readers who do not have a technical or scientific background may find this book overwhelming.	2001-06-20
US	45031108	R2I574869JKZMX	0160041244	499501670	This Island Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Early Photographic Tribute to our Planet	This book, originally published by NASA as SP-250, contains many stunning photographs of the Earth.  Most of the pictures taken of the Earth were by the crews of Apollo 7 and Apollo 9 (the only manned Earth orbiting Apollo missions); however, there are a good number of supporting photographs from other sources, such as weather satellites.<br />The book is divided into five main sections: Air, Water, Land, Man's Effect and North America.  There is also an introductory section and section on future missions to the planets.  As the owner of many books of Earth photographed from space, it is this book that set the standard for all books afterwards.  While many books published since &quot;This Island Earth,&quot; have higher quality photographs or larger page sizes, the general layout has remained the same.  That is, sections on Earth's land, air, water and mankind all photographed from space.<br />You can find this book listed quite frequently in Amazon's zShops and it is well worth the price.	2001-06-18
US	45031108	R36ACAMK91SZXN	0811801357	489561997	Embracing Earth	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful, Stunning and Thought Provoking Photos of Earth	This large, coffee table style book, brought to you by one of the authors of the awesome book, The Home Planet, contains numerous, high quality, digitally enhanced photographs of the Earth.  While Earth orbiting satellites took most of these photographs, several ground-based pictures have been included to help provide a perspective.  Each photographs is accompanied by a detailed description.<br />This book is divided into three main sections.  The first section, Natural Rhythms, examines how natural forces within the land, air, water, and ice and life itself (not just man) affect and change the Earth's landmasses and oceans.  The next section, Human Impacts, examines how humans have altered the Earth; in many cases in just a few short years.  The final section, Embracing Earth, presents some stunning photographs of our planet that the authors hope will impact the reader to treat our home with more respect.<br />I found the chapter on the consequences of human activities our planet quite chilling.  It was amazing (or sad) to see how much destruction mankind could cause in less than two decades.  For example, these photographs show rapid deforestation of the rain forests in Brazil, changes in the water level of the Aral Sea, urban sprawl through out the world, massive glacier loss and forest damage due to pollution.  This chapter made me want to out and plant some trees and clean up our local beach.  (Note to readers:  This reviewer is not some wacky environmentalist, but the facts do speak for themselves.).<br />If you enjoy photographs of the Earth taken from space, or are interesting in seeing how mankind has altered the face of our planet or fall somewhere in between, then this book is definitely for you.	2001-06-08
US	45031108	RI4N3TZA4SP21	0764909053	444727313	Space Race: The U.S.-U.S.S.R. Competition to Reach the Moon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Excellent Photographic Survey of the Space Race	This relatively short book, a little more than a 100 pages, presents the US-USSR space race in high quality pictures with a small amount of accompanying text.  Some of the pictures are the classic photographs from the space race; however, most of the photographs have rarely been publishing and even then only in specialized publications.  There is a great presentation of Russian documents and hardware.<br />The book opens with a section on the German development of the V-2, the race to be the first country to place satellite in orbit, and the development of each countries ICBM arsenal.  The next section, which covers more than half the book, is devoted to the race to the moon.  This section also contains a great deal about the Russian moon program and has some really nice photographs of the Russian Moon Rocket, the N-1.  The final section of the book covers spying from space.<br />While I doubt this book contains any real new information, the many highly photographs, especially of the Russian hardware, makes this book well worth its price.	2001-06-06
US	45031108	R1OJ6VQLJT8ISH	0764909053	444727313	Space Race: The U.S.-U.S.S.R. Competition to Reach the Moon	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Space Race in Pictures	This relatively short book, a little more than a 100 pages, presents the US-USSR space race in high quality pictures with a small amount of accompanying text.  Some of the pictures are the classic photographs from the space race; however, most of the photographs have rarely been published and even then only in specialized publications.  There is a great presentation of Russian documents and hardware.<br />The book opens with a section on the German development of the V-2, the race to be the first country to place satellite in orbit, and the development of each countries ICBM arsenal.  The next section, which covers more than half the book, is devoted to the race to the moon.  This section also contains a great deal about the Russian moon program and has some really nice photographs of the Russian Moon Rocket, the N-1.  The final section of the book covers spying from space.<br />While I doubt this book contains any real new information, the many high quality photographs, especially of the Russian hardware, makes this book well worth its price.	2001-05-30
US	45031108	R37CN9F2KOA31H	0688152775	932205	Neptune	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Book For Children on the Planet Neptune	In August 1989, the Voyager 2 spacecraft became the first and so far only spacecraft to visit and explore the planet Neptune.  The author presents a brief, non-technical summary of the mission to Neptune and the findings from this mission.  The book is loaded with many high quality photos of the planet, its rings, and its minor moons.  The book also contains a good deal of information on Neptune's largest moon Triton.  While this maybe a children's book, I feel that many adults would find it interesting as well.	2001-05-24
US	45031108	R1DGKXWGU426VX	1882663128	466841834	Moon Missions: Mankind's First Voyages to Another World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Concise Summary of Lunar Exploration	This relatively small book presents a very good summary of NASA's conquest of the Moon.  The book is divided into three sections plus several appendices.  The first section of the covers the early ideas about the moon and Russia's and America's pre-Apollo space race.  The second section, which is approximately 2/3 of the book, details the entire lunar exploration program from the early Ranger missions to the splashdown of Apollo 17.  This portion of the book also has some nice sections of the launching facilities and the Lunar EVA suits.   The final section examines what was learned from the exploration of the Moon.  The book does contain some minor information on the unmanned Russia probes to the Moon.  The appendices are first rate and provide a synopsis of the missions, a dictionary of the important geology terms and a bibliography.<br />If you're looking for a book that contains an excellent overview of the exploration of the Moon, this book is it.  The book not only provides information on all the missions that went to the moon, but also provides information of surface experiments, the lunar rover, spacesuit design, etc.  While all the photographs are in black and white, they are excellent quality and include some of the more classic space explorations photographs as well as those, which were not as famous.	2001-05-08
US	45031108	R2TJQQXAIKKBCH	0879518138	89505021	Origins: Our Place in Hubble's Universe	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Hubble the Man, not the Telescope	The first thing to note about this book is that it is not about the Hubble Space Telescope, but about our universe.  It's subtitled &quot;Hubble's Universe&quot;, because Edwin Hubble was the first astronomer to show that universe was composed of many galaxies and not just the Milky Way.  In other words, he might be considered the founder of modern cosmology.  <br />In this book, the authors present many of the classic photographs of the universe, the Milky Way and the solar system plus many new pictures as well.  Accompanying each photograph is a detailed description of what was discovered and why is important. While some of the these photographs are over twenty-five old, they have been digitally enhanced, but still show the graininess associated with the early planetary space probes.  In addition, there is a nice introductory section, which describes many of the discoveries from the past hundred years.<br />In general, I found most of the photographs contained in the book to be a good representation of the objects found in our universe.  The photographs cover the extreme, from very distant galaxies to the Earth and the Moon.<br />If you are looking for a good book that summarizes the universe, Milky Way and the solar system in pictures, this book would good addition to your collection.  If you are looking for new photographs or new information you will not find much in this book.	2001-05-04
US	45031108	R17TIEEEIBGHUX	156098998X	302257633	Moon Lander: How We Developed the Apollo Lunar Module	Books	5	75	75	N	N	The Engineering and Project Management Behind the LM	....  While there are a lot of engineering terms and technical descriptions of hardware, there are no engineering formulae.  The author, Thomas J. Kelley, was the chief engineer of the Grumman-built Lunar Module (LM), during its design, development and testing phases and also for part of the early landings on the Moon.  The author presents a new and untold story of the development of one the greatest marvels of modern engineering, the first vehicle designed solely for manned space exploration.  That is, the human side of the development of this space vehicle.<br />The first few chapters of the book describe how Grumman developed the proposal that ultimately won the NASA contract to build the LM.  The book then moves onto the development of conceptual ideas, the final design, the building, the testing and finally the flying of the LM to the lunar surface.  The book concludes with a good summary of each Apollo mission, including the Apollo 13 mission, which used the LM as a lifeboat, and his thoughts about the Apollo program and the beginning of the Space Shuttle program.<br />I found the opening chapters of the book that were devoted to writing the winning NASA proposal and the subsequent contract negotiations and the development of the LM very interesting.  This winning proposal was less than 100 pages!!!!!.  Try that today.  Through out these and other parts of the book, the author is not afraid to criticized his company, upper management and fellow co-workers and take the blame when he was wrong.  While there are many technical details in each of these sections of the book, most of the chapters describe in great detail the project management of the LM.<br />For me, the most interesting part of this part was the human side of the development of the LM.  He describes in detail how he and others felt about what they were doing, if they could really do it and the thrill of actually building the LM.  For example, through out the first lunar landing, he always questioning himself, &quot;Did we forget anything?&quot;  A feeling that I share ever time NASA launches a Shuttle.<br />When I finished this book, I had a great understanding of the human side of this massive engineering project, which was (or is) until now an untold story.  This book clearly captures the excitement of everyone behind the scenes who worked on the Apollo project.  If you have any interest in the space program, even today's projects, this book will give you understanding of those people who developed these wonderful machines.	2001-04-26
US	45031108	R31C3TBH7QDY6E	0810929236	668374638	Hubble Space Telescope: New Views of the Universe	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Coffee Table Book of the Best Hubble Photographs	This book, produced by the Smithsonian and the Space Telescope Science Institute, presents some the most famous photographs taken by the Hubble Space Telescope from the solar system to the edge of visible space.  The large coffee table format of the book helps present these photographs in all their magnificence.<br />The book opens with a brief description of the telescope and its capabilities.  Next, the book covers the solar system, then moves on to objects in the Milky Way, the individual galaxies, and finally the universe.  In essence, this progression of photographs shows the reader how Hubble is looking backward in time to the big bang.<br />While the selected photographs are excellent and the large size of the book enhances their grandeur, sixty pages do not do justice to the many incredible photographs taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.	2001-04-12
US	45031108	RE618RF9424VF	1552092801	960419103	America from Space	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Photographs of the USA Taken From Space	This book contains over a hundred color photographs of the United States, some of which are digitally enhanced, taken by remote sensing satellites and space shuttle astronauts.  A small amount of text and a location of a map accompanies each photograph.<br />The book presents most of the major geological features of the United States and has at least one photograph from each state.  As someone who has traveled and lived in many places in the USA, some of them quite remote, I was amazed to see what geological features I had overlooked.  There are also a good number of photographs showing some of the major cities in America.<br />If you like good photography or geology, this book is definitely for you.	2001-04-11
US	45031108	RMMKG3RL9EM3V	1896522564	504464921	Apollo 14: The NASA Mission Reports: Apogee Books Space Series 14	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Another Excellent Book in the Series	Once again, Robert Godwin and Apogee Books have compiled a great set of NASA documents about the Apollo era of space exploration.  This time, as the title indicates, he has chosen Apollo 14.  This mission was the first mission after the aborted Apollo 13 flight and had Alan Shepard as the mission commander.<br />The book opens with the usual NASA mission press kit.  Unlike earlier missions, the press kit is significantly smaller.  The next portion of the books contains an excellent section devoted to describing the ALSEP (Apollo Lunar Surface Experiments Package) hardware that would be placed on the moon.  In my many years at NASA, I have yet to see such comprehensive documentation of this hardware package.  The book concludes with the post launch mission operations report and the crew debrief.<br />The debrief section, which is over half the book, contains the crew comments and feelings about various parts of the mission and for the most part avoids the technical language that many of the NASA documents include.  The crew debrief contains crew comments from the suiting up phase to the landing, plus comments about the training (did it or did not help the crew).  There are many sections that provide a thorough crew description about the docking problems (which almost aborted the mission), lunar EVAs, and the lunar science conducted from orbit.  I always find the crew debriefing quite enjoyiable, because it is the closest thing to being there.<br />Some general information that might be useful.<br />1)  These reports are just scanned-in documents from previously released NASA press kits, etc.,  In order to preserve the spirit of the original reports, all typographical and grammatical errors have NOT been fixed.<br />2)  Proceeds from the book goes to &quot;The Watch&quot; an asteroid impact research project of the Space Frontier Foundation.  In other words, Apogee Books is making very little off the sale of US government produced books.<br />3)  Many people have askedwhy the post mission reports are not included.  Since NASA has published many books with hundred of pages (The NASA SP series), and the data from these missions is still being analyzed, it would be impossible to do.	2001-04-09
US	45031108	R26Z4H86ZJQWQA	019512555X	928145514	Satellites of the Outer Planets: Worlds in Their Own Right	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Geological Processes that Shaped the Outer Planet's Moons	Though the number of pages in this book may seem a bit small to provide a good explanation the geological processes that shaped and are still shaping the moons of the outer planets, the author does an excellent job of doing just that.  Excluding the Moon and the two small satellites of Mars, this book covers all the planetary satellites (moons) of our solar system.  The book does include the latest findings (as of 1999) from the Galileo space probe.<br />The first quarter of the book describes in quite some detail, at least for the non-geologist, the different theories that have been used to classify these planetary bodies.  The remainder of the book, excluding the conclusion section, is divided into three parts: dead worlds, recently active worlds and active worlds.  Each of the moons falls into one of these categories and a detailed description of each moon is provided in its corresponding section.  Each section also includes high resolution Voyager and Galileo photographs and shade relief maps. <br />After finishing this book, I came away with the idea the solar system is a very geologically diverse place and there is a lot we don't know.  Even the author, in several places was willing to admit to that.	2001-04-02
US	45031108	R1MXEFZY4W3TNG	0201151979	892564811	The Home Planet	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Only Being in Orbit Could Give You a Better View!!!!	This coffee table book presents some of the best photographs taken of the Earth and the Moon by both astronauts and cosmonauts.  Due to the large size of the book, these photographs are even more stunning.  In addition to the photographs, several quotes by those who have flown in space accompany each photograph.<br />One of things that I really liked about the book is that other than the small quotes, there is very little accompany text.  The only real text is at the end of the book, where NASA's chief photographic planner describes &quot;Why Space Photography?&quot;  I found thispart kind of chilling where he states, &quot;it is a far more air-polluted Earth today than it was in the past ... twenty years ago&quot;	2001-03-28
US	45031108	R3JPS3AV60ZPT2	0814731171	4774110	Empire of the Sun: Planets and Moons of the Solar System	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Classic Space Age Photographs of our Solar System	In this book, the authors present many of the classic photographs of the sun, planets, their moons, asteroids and comets taken during the space age by various space exploration vehicles.  Accompanying each photograph is a detailed description of what was discovered and why is important. While many of the these photographs are well over thirty years old, they have been digitally enhanced, but still show the graininess associated with the early planetary space probes.<br />In general, I found most of the photographs contained in the both to be a good representation of the bodies found in our solar system; however, there are several missing photographs which could have made this book a lot better.  For example, there are no photographs of Mercury's Caloris Basin, Neptune's moon Triton, or any of the major geological features of Mars.  On the other hand, there seems to be an over abundance of pictures of Saturn and its moons which could have been left out if space was a problem.<br />If you are looking for a good book that summarizes the solar system in pictures, this book would good addition to your collection.  If you are looking for new photographs or new information about solar system research you will not find it in this book.	2001-03-28
US	45031108	R2LJ1B59SBRAC2	0874748925	712227034	MERCURY (Smithsonian Library of the Solar System)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Concise Summary of the Current Knowledge About Mercury	Even though this book is almost fifteen years old, it is not out dated at all, since the last space exploration mission to Mercury was flown in 1974 by the Mariner 10 space probe.  It is one of the few books, other than children's books or NASA publications, which provides a detailed description of this planet.<br />The first chapter of the book &quot;The Elusive Planet&quot; opens with the knowledge acquired from Earth based observation, which is very minimal, hence the title of the book and chapter.  The book then proceeds to the development of the Mariner 10 space vehicle, mission plan and flight to Mercury.  The remainder of the book deals with the discovers made by the Mariner 10 space probe, such as, the general surfaces features, the planet's interior, how impact craters are formed, and some of the unique geological features found on Mercury.<br />This book is extremely easy to read, since it does not contain any unnecessary geological terms.  In addition, there are plenty of nice black and white photos and numerous line drawings.	2001-03-27
US	45031108	R1DFZVQPNV0I6Z	0942862023	690033852	Lunar Bases and Space Activities of the 21st Century	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Nice Collection of Paper about the Moon and Moon Bases	This softbound book contains a collection of papers from a conference held in Washington D.C. from October 29-31, 1984.  These papers provide information about lunar geology, lunar science, construction techniques, transportation issues, base design, and various subsystem design (like, power generation, thermal control and life support) as well as many other topics.  While the book contains many papers that provide a general overview of the lunar bases, many of the papers contain engineering formulae, which require knowledge of calculus and differential equations or even a specialization in a field of science or engineering.	2001-03-24
US	45031108	R3OGY2GNETQZG9	1557091455	873292778	The House on the Cliff (Hardy Boys, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Great Mystery	I first read this book when I was twelve years and it was one of the first of many Hardy Boys I read.  Unfortunately, in my youth I read the 1960's version, but this version, written in the 1920's, is much much better (I'm 39 now and read it to my son).<br />I think the most interesting thing about this book is that a lot of the problems that today's parents/teachers/politicians complain about are the main topic in this story.  Without giving away the storyline, it has drug running, gangs, crime, violence and murder.  I guess it just goes to show that the good old days weren't always what they seem to be.<br />A nice bonus for this book is that for those of you who always wanted to know about Franklin W. Dixon, a very brief biography is presented.	2001-03-21
US	45031108	R2JHRK5U7SQGUV	1852332018	919240953	Challenges of Human Space Exploration	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Good Side of the Shuttle-MIR Missions	The title of this book is very misleading.  It does not examine the &quot;Challenges of Human Space Exploration,&quot; but presents the research conducted on the MIR by US researchers using NASA astronauts on the Russian built MIR Space Station.  In spite of the misleading title, I found this book to a good addition to my collection of books on the space program.<br />Unlike the book Dragonfly by Bryan Burrough, which presents the ugly, but real side, of the Shuttle/MIR missions, this book examines the research conducted by NASA astronauts on the MIR for various researchers and research organizations.  In addition, many of the results and their use for Earth based applications are presented.<br />The book opens with two preliminary chapters.  The first chapter examines the Skylab program and the results of the experiments conducted onboard this space station.  The second chapter deals with the MIR space station, what the Russians learned and Shuttle-MIR partnership.  The next few chapters dealt with the experiments that were conducted by the NASA astronauts which focused on a variety of life sciences experiments such as, plant growth, protein crystal growth, and the bioreactor (cell tissue growth).  The final two chapters summarize the lessons learned from MIR and how these lessons learned are being applied to the International Space Station.<br />This book gave me a new perspective of the Shuttle-MIR missions that I have not seen elsewhere (and I work for NASA) and pointed out the many positive benefits from this space program.  For example, several spin-offs, such a portable heart difibulator, have already made their way to the marketplace.  Furthermore, rapid advances have been made in many areas of medical research, such as diabetes and cancer research.<br />While the sections devoted to the positive aspects of the research were extremely interesting, I did, however, find the lessons learned chapter quite disturbing, but interesting in its own right.  It seems that while NASA spent millions of dollars and many man hours on research facilities and operations training, very little if any effort was devoted to the psychological problems that could develop in such a closed, isolated and culturally different environment.  It seems that at least some the criticism that this NASA program has received is clearly justified.<br />While this book may not before everyone, it definitely was a refreshing change from other more critical books written about the Shuttle-MIR program.  It should make you realize that the Shuttle-MIR program has and will have some important benefits to mankind and that is was not just another pork barrel government project.	2001-03-21
US	45031108	RQRMKFTL7JT64	1560983868	139691660	Aiming for the Stars: The Dreamers and Doers of the Space Age	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Book Summarizing All Aspects of Space Flight To Date	This well written book about the space age provides an excellent summary of the space program to date and people and leaders who made it happen.  About half of the book covers the early space pioneers, like Von Braun, Oberth, Goddard and Tsoilkovsky and the early attempts to build a working rocket.  The second half covers the early space program, the Apollo missions to the Moon, and eventually moves into the modern era.  There are also plenty of chapters about the Russian space program and various robotic explorations of the planets.<br />While most of the information presented in this book can be found in greater detail in other books, this book would be a nice addition to any collection of space flight or for the novice space flight reader who wants to learn a great deal about the space program.	2001-03-12
US	45031108	R3ESE1M834705T	0525945717	617663719	Flight: My Life in Mission Control	Books	5	64	66	N	N	One of the Best Books Ever about the Space Program	While I really liked Gene Kranz's book on his experiences in Mission Control and felt that his was a five star book, Chris Kraft's book is orders of magnitude better.  Chris Kraft describes in great detail his career at NASA, its predecessor NACA and all the people involved in setting up mission control and getting America to the Moon.  He tells it like it was and he's not afraid to criticize (or praise) the many players within NASA and its contractors.  Through out the book, the reader gets the impression that Kraft truly enjoyed his job, even with the 70 to 80 hour weeks, and believes in the dream of exploring the solar system and the universe.<br />The book begins with Kraft's childhood on the Virginia shores of the Atlantic and the factors that ultimately shaped his future.  Due to a childhood accident he is unable to fight in World War II and instead ends up becoming an engineer at NACA (National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics) helping to solve aerodynamic problems of many aircraft.  At NACA he distinguishes himself by solving many complex flight problems, some of which are still used today.  It is here that he meets many of the people who will become the driving force behind the Mercury, Gemini and Apollo programs, such as Walt Williams and Bob Gilruth.  Once the Russians launch Sputnik, he becomes one of a select few of 36 people who form the Space Task Group.  This group becomes the core of all manned space flight projects up to the Space Shuttle program.  This group developed the Mercury capsule, mission control and selected the Original Seven astronauts.  He becomes the Flight Director for the Mercury program and part of the Gemini program.  As the space program expands, the group grows quite large and moves to Houston, TX to form the Manned Spacecraft Center (now the Johnson Space Center).  Mid-way through the Gemini program he gives up his position as a Flight Director and worked on getting Apollo to the moon.<br />So much has been written about theApollo missions to the Moon, that this book was a breath of fresh air.  Approximately half of this book is devoted to the Mercury and Gemini programs and how these often ignored projects played an extremely important role in getting America to the Moon.  This book is loaded many great nuggets about the space program and Kraft's life.  For example, he helps subdue a hijacker, he's one of only a few that criticizes Wernher Von Braun (and not for his Nazi past) and several of the Original Mercury Seven Astronauts and tells how and why Neil Armstrong was selected to be the first man on the moon.  But all in all, Kraft continually points out that it was teamwork that got the space program over many hurdles and to the moon.  Those who were not non-team players, such as Mercury astronaut Scott Carpenter, were eventually eased out of the program.<br />It is important to note that all the proceeds from this book go to a college scholarship fund for the children of Johnson Space Center employees.	2001-03-09
US	45031108	R20JKYCJHN4RZG	1560989548	788170672	Beyond the Moon: A Golden Age of Planetary Exploration, 1971-1978 (Smithsonian History of Aviation and Spaceflight Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Triumphs of the Planetary Space Missions of the 1970's	During the period from 1971 through 1978, NASA launched twelve space probes to explore the planets and the sun and achieved many firsts, such as, the first planetary orbiter, the first planetary lander, the first spacecraft to visit the outer planets and the first spacecraft to use the gravity assist.  While a good portion of these stories is presented in the first person, such as the budget battles the author had to fight, this is not his autobiography.<br />The book is divided into chapters covering each planetary or solar probe and also includes an introductory and closing chapter.  Each chapter presents the organization of the spacecraft management team, the determination the science objects, hardware development problems, the budget (and sometimes budget problems), the problems encountered from launch to the arrival, and finally a summary of the important discoveries of each planetary encounter.  Each chapter also presents a detailed drawing or two of the spacecraft and a few photographs.  Detailed findings from each mission are presented, since these would be books in themselves.<br />One of the most interesting chapters covers the joint German-US solar probe Helios.  This was the first major joint space project.  This spacecraft orbited the sun at a distance of less than 30 million miles, which closer to the sun than the planet Mercury and returned valuable data on the nature of the sun.<br />While I found all the chapters in this book very interesting, I think the final chapter of the book was by far and away the best.  The author summarizes what he learned over his many years in the upper management of NASA and his dealings with Congress.  In this position, he learned two things.  1) Do not let politics dictate technical decisions and, 2) Do not lie to Congress.  These are two concepts that our current NASA administrator should embrace.  If he did, I believe more of our country's space projects would funded and succeed.	2001-03-07
US	45031108	R3S8BNIR1AZ0FN	1852332255	156043800	Disasters and Accidents in Manned Spaceflight	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An Extremely Interesting Book	While the title of this book may seem a bit gruesome, I found this book to be one of the most interesting books related to manned spaceflight.  Oftentimes, we hear about the great triumphs of the space program, but unless it is a great disaster, the problems encountered in spaceflight are often overlooked.  This book covers all aspects of spaceflight (training, flight, EVA, etc.) from the early pioneering days right up to the present.  The book includes a great deal on the Soviet space program that I have not seen before.<br />The book opens with the daring adventures of the early manned ballooning experiments and the goal of the setting a record altitude.  I was quite impressed with what was accomplished in the 1920's and 1930's.  The book then proceeds to the various experimental X-planes and the problems encountered with these projects.<br />After this brief, but very informative introduction, the book examines the era of manned spaceflight.  The book is divided into four main areas:  training, launch, space travel, and re-entry.  Each of the main areas examines all the major and minor problems encountered with these aspects of spaceflight.  As one would expect, the book covers the major spaceflight disasters, like Apollo 1, the Challenger explosion, Apollo 13, but it also includes even the smallest problems like the lunar explorers falling down or urine leaks in the shuttle EVA suits.  It was interesting to see that the have been many more problems, though minor ones, in manned spaceflight than has been reported in the press.<br />The book contains numerous rarely seen photographs and drawings.  If you're interested in manned space flight, this book provides a fascinating and unique view of the dangerous side of space travel.	2001-03-06
US	45031108	R3H1TX9H6U4UPP	068485676X	232085443	Designs On Space: Blueprints For 21st Century Space Exploration	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting Little Book	This book provides a summary of all the current and planned space exploration projects, both manned and unmanned and at the time of publication it was fairly up to date.  The timetable presented for the International Space Station is outdated, but the expected launch dates for the planetary missions are correct.  The book also provides a summary of many of the commercial space adventures which I have not seen anywhere else.<br />There are no photos anywhere in this book, but each section contains several drawings or more of each piece of hardware.  The drawings are intended to look like the old blueprint drawings (hence the subtitle name), however, as an engineer who works for NASA, we don't use blueprints anymore.<br />On a sad note, due to the recent budgetary cutbacks associated with the new Bush Administration, many of the projects presented in this book have been canceled or deferred, so this new and exciting book is unfortunately already out of date.  Get it anyway; it's still a good book and the drawings are top notch.	2001-03-05
US	45031108	RGBGE5E135T9A	0231120788	991777568	The 23rd Cycle	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Book About Our Sun and its Effect on Earth	If I could give this book three and a half stars I would, but since I think some people could find it more interesting than I did, I gave it four starts.<br />This book describes the sun's eleven-year cycle of highs and lows in sun spot activity.  While the mechanism, which produces these sun spots, is not well understand, what well known is that the sun produces vast amounts of high energy particles (radiation), both continuously and in bursts which ultimately affects the Earth's magnetic field and life on Earth.  The book focused on how past solar magnetic storms have affected the power grid system and the geostationary satellites.  Finally, the author makes some predictions on the upcoming solar maximum in the year 2001 and its potential for life on Earth.  I should point out that the author is an astronomer and makes his predictions based on data and past experiences and not is some doomsayer trying to make a quick buck.<br />There are also several extremely interesting chapters on the effects of solar magnetic storms on the modern day life.  One chapter shows that in 1989, a solar magnetic storm shut down a good portion of the Canadian electrical power grid, leaving some people without power for several days.  The chapter on the effects of radiation on the human body was very enlightening.  For example, this chapter shows that living in high altitude location like Denver was similar to receiving several chest X-rays a year.  Also, radiation from cosmic sources was significantly greater than that received from living next to a nuclear power plant.<br />One area that was overlooked in this was the effect of sun spot activity on global warming or cooling.  It is well known that a mini ice age that occurred several centuries ago coincided with a lack of sun spot activity.	2001-03-04
US	45031108	R1MFGNA3MTH22	0801862051	541328981	Powering Apollo: James E. Webb of NASA (New Series in NASA History)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Biography of the NASA's Finest Administrator	A nice book about the second NASA administrator who able to guide NASA from the early days of the Mercury program to right up to the first journey to the moon (Apollo 8) when Webb was forced to leave as the Nixon Administration took over.<br />The book is divided into two parts.  The first third of the book describes Webb's early years including his employment with the State Department, the Bureau of the Budget and Republic Supply, a division of Kerr-McGee.  The remainder of the book focuses on Webb's involvement in the development of the NASA management system and the problems he overcame to get Apollo to the Moon.<br />In general, I found the book quite interesting.  There are many descriptions of the personal battles he had to fight with contractors, the congress and his own top-level employees, how set up the NASA management system, his involvement with the academic world and in how upper management viewed various disasters and triumphs.  The management system which he developed for the largest engineering and research effort mankind has ever undertaken, carried on well after he left NASA.  For example, the Apollo 11 moon landing took place when it was suppose to even the there was a new Nixon appointed leader.  This management system carried on well into the Space Shuttle and Space Station programs.  I also found it refreshing that Jim Webb felt a sense of personal responsibility for the loss of the Apollo 1 crew.  Compare that to the finger pointing associated with the Challenger explosion and the majority of today's politicians.<br />After finishing the book, I came away with the feeling that Jim Webb was truly believed in the dream that mankind should explore space and made every effort to make this dream a reality.	2001-03-01
US	45031108	R2FAI58NTCDM37	0060194162	730137890	Leap of Faith: An Astronaut's Journey Into the Unknown	Books	2	8	12	N	N	Space Cadet with out of this World Claims	When I found out that Gordon Cooper had written a book about his experiences as an astronaut, I was excited, since most of the astronaut biographies were written by the more famous astronauts like Alan Shepard, Deke Slayton or John Glenn and not by the lesser known ones likes Gordon Cooper.  I thought I'd get a different perspective, and boy was I right.<br />After a brief introduction of his first Mercury flight, the book begins with Cooper's entry into the space program as one of the Mercury Seven and his training program.  Eventually, it moves on to his first mission, the only Mercury mission (Faith 7) to last more than a day.  This mission was full of many minor and major problems that were overcome in part due to Cooper's insistence of rigorous pre-flight training.<br />When the book processes to his Gemini 5 mission, his spacecraft begins to experience some of the same problems as his first flight.  Again, the mission is saved in part due to Cooper's insistence of rigorous pre-flight training.  It was here that I felt the book started to take a fast, downward spiral.  He makes the wild claim that his film was taken shortly after splashdown, because he took photos of Area 51.  His film was taken by the DOD and then returned to NASA (see space.com).  I guess he never visited NASA to look at his photographs.  Furthermore, it has been shown his flight never passed over Area 51.  At this point I knew the book could only get worse and after one brief shining moment it did.<br />After the Gemini flight talks about his lost of an Apollo moon landing flight due to internal politics within the astronaut office with Deke Slayton and Alan Shepard which was a good confirmation of the many rumors regarding flight selection.  Basically, he was bumped so that Alan Shepard could get a moon flight.  Cooper then leaves NASA in disgust.<br />Once he leaves NASA, most of the book deals with his experiences with the paranormal, UFOs, etc.  It was like a bad X-files show.  For example, he claims to have seen and touched a flying saucer, but yet he can't even produce a photograph. I found it extremely odd that a man who spent years in rigorous training for space travel and by his own claims it this training that helped save his missions would forget to document his experience, especially after the Area 51 experience.  There are just so many wild, undocumented claims that the book suffers greatly.<br />I would have given this book only one star, but it has a lot previously unpublished information on his flights and he has some nice things to say about his colleagues at NASA that saves the book from being a complete disaster.	2001-02-28
