US	45042957	R15RGZ0QIMVPUB	0060732806	201732988	Conversation in the Cathedral	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Latin-American masterpiece	When one of the best contemporary Latin-American authors says \\"If I could only save from the fire one of the novels I have written, I would save this one\\", you know that the experience of reading this work has to be invaluable. In this novel, the author explores, through the use of some fictional characters, the effects of the dictatorship of Manuel A. Odria in Peru. One of the aspects that shocked me and that I still find surprising is how well the impact of these terrible events translates to other dictatorships that occurred later in the Latin American history.<br /><br />Vargas Llosa uses a very difficult style throughout this novel, since he jumps back and forth through time and space, and also changes continuously among the viewpoint of different characters, without warning the reader about what is going on in each case. It does take some getting used to in order to fully enjoy the novel, but once you achieve this, the rewards are abundant and leave us satisfied. In this regard, it may help to read \\"The Time of the Hero\\" first, since in this book the author uses a similar technique, but keeping it a little simpler.<br /><br />I have heard some of my friends and family complain about Vargas Llosa's style in this work, saying that the author is just trying to be fancy with his writing when there is no need for it. I do not agree with this; I think that the point the author is trying to make through his convoluted technique has to do with the frustration that people feel during a dictatorship and he wants you to feel some of it too when you are going through the experience of reading about it. But also, the author knows that you are going to have to give the book your full attention if you want to understand it, so his style helps assure that you will grasp his point.<br /><br />In my opinion, there is only one other book that can compete with this one for the best Latin-American novel of all times, and most people can probably figure out pretty quickly that I am referring to \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude\\". I am not sure which one comes on top, but I know for sure that I would not want to have to make a choice in terms of which of the two to save from the fire!red Years of Solitude\\". I am not sure which one comes on top, but I know for sure that I would not want to have to make a choice in terms of which of the two to save from the fire!	2005-07-21
US	45042957	R208GDXKYQFRBA	0312423810	689175313	The Confessions of Max Tivoli: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	"Be what they think you are"	Any novel that starts with a man in his fifties in the body of a child and with this character mentioning that he will tell us a tragic story involving love and murder, will grab the readers attention. And this is what Greer does in the first couple of pages of this book. But after that he shows his ability to keep us engaged throughout the story, with a combination of an imaginative plot and a superb talent for transmitting the feelings of the main character without missing a beat in the story's pace.<br /><br />There is no great availability of literary fiction in a fantastic setting, so this novel is a clear break from the ordinary. It all revolves around the narrator, Max Tivoli, who was born with the appearance of a seventy-year old man and is \\"doomed\\" to have his body rejuvenate while his mind grows old. The sum of the two ages will always add up to seventy, so he knows that by the year 1941 he will disappear. This special situation forces Max to hide his true self from the rest of the people and he tries to stick by his mother's advice: \\"Be what they think you are\\". Only a few times in his life he actually ventures to reveal his reality; probably the most important one is when he is a kid in an old man's body and meets Hughie, a child that will become his best friend for life and will share his experiences, regrets and pain, in the years to come.<br /><br />And then there is Alice, a girl / woman that will cross Max's path three times in his life at different points and who is the love of his life. It is impressive to see how each of this encounters differ from one another, since even though both characters have the same age, Max's physical appearance suggests otherwise. This dichotomy in Max's life creates complex situations that help us realize what this man has to go through. An example of this is when Max meets Alice and both of them are seventeen, but it is Alice's mother who sees Max as a worthy candidate for herself, instead of for her daughter.<br /><br />George Bernard Shaw once said \\"Youth is wasted on the young\\", and the author explores what would happen if that was not the case, but only for one of us. The result of exploring this topic is a novel written in excellent style and which several times in its course leaves us thinking, with our mouth open after being surprised by implications we had not considered. The setting is mostly San Francisco in the turn of the century, and the author provides the city with a life of its own, giving the story a very special flavor. I highly recommend this work to all those that like literature that makes you think and / or fantastic settings.r /> <br />George Bernard Shaw once said \\"Youth is wasted on the young\\", and the author explores what would happen if that was not the case, but only for one of us. The result of exploring this topic is a novel written in excellent style and which several times in its course leaves us thinking, with our mouth open after being surprised by implications we had not considered. The setting is mostly San Francisco in the turn of the century, and the author provides the city with a life of its own, giving the story a very special flavor. I highly recommend this work to all those that like literature that makes you think and / or fantastic settings.	2005-07-01
US	45042957	R332P0BX3ZEQTY	0060778970	142631692	Zorro: A Novel	Books	5	6	7	N	N	"Welcome to La Justicia, Zorro"	When I was I kid I used to sit in front of the TV every afternoon after school to watch my favorite series. I spent innumerable hours seeing Zorro defend liberty and justice against awful villains like Moncada, and being amused by the clumsy Sergeant Garcia. If you experienced something similar, you will be amazed by Allende's novel, since she creates a convincing past for our beloved hero, and in the process answers several of the questions that we have asked ourselves for years.<br /><br />A close friend of Zorro who remains anonymous for most of the book tells the story. This person is trying to set the record straight regarding the true story of the man who became a legend. In this effort, the narrator starts with events prior to the birth of Diego de la Vega, recounting how Alejandro met Diego's mother in a war between the Indians and the Spanish. From Diego's childhood we start seeing how this individual was shaped by the relationship with his grandmother's tribe and the search for okahue: love, justice, respect, dignity and courage.<br /><br />Some of the questions that we will get answers for include how the relationship with Bernardo started, how the secret passage between Diego's house and the Zorro's hideout came into existence, why Moncada hated Zorro and why Garcia liked him, even though it was his duty to go after him. Also, the author presents us with information regarding Diego's studies in Barcelona, which allows us to gain further insight into what drives our hero.<br /><br />One of my favorite aspects of this novel is how the relationship between Diego and Bernardo is described, not only allowing us to understand their brotherhood, but also as a tool to depict in simple terms the prejudice surrounding them. Even though both of them consider the other one his brother, since Bernardo has Indian parents, everyone except for Diego treated him differently, and this undoubtedly helped Zorro to understand some of life's harsh truths.<br /><br />In the last few years there had been movies, series and books telling us about the unknown childhood and youth of our favorite heroes. An example would be the TV series \\"Smallville\\", which deals with the time in which Superman was a teenager. It was about time that someone revealed to us the real story of the younger years of one of the most beloved heroes of all times. And Allende is up to the task, delivering a novel that is impossible to put down and that brings Zorro even to a higher echelon of a legend, if this is even possible!n the last few years there had been movies, series and books telling us about the unknown childhood and youth of our favorite heroes. An example would be the TV series \\"Smallville\\", which deals with the time in which Superman was a teenager. It was about time that someone revealed to us the real story of the younger years of one of the most beloved heroes of all times. And Allende is up to the task, delivering a novel that is impossible to put down and that brings Zorro even to a higher echelon of a legend, if this is even possible! <br />	2005-06-24
US	45042957	R1AK55O23DP7ZM	0060738197	868613530	The Stepford Wives	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"We're in the Town that Time Forgot"	About fifteen years ago, when I was in my mid-teens, I read this novel for the first time and enjoyed the experience. That is why after watching the movie with Nicole Kidman and being thoroughly disappointed, I decided to reread the book and see if I maintained my opinion about Levin's work. The result was that I found the novel to be even better than I remembered it to be, and was amazed by the author's ability to transmit so much in such a short work. He certainly does not beat around the bush!<br /><br />The story begins with Joanna, Walter and their two kids adjusting to their new life in Stepford, which proves not to be an easy task, especially for Joanna. Starting with her neighbor, she starts seeing a disturbing pattern of behavior in the wives of Stepford. For example, Carol cannot come over for coffee because she needs to wax the floors...at night! Meanwhile, Carol's husband is out, having fun in the Men's Association. This is the other big thorn in Joanna's side, since she finds out that there are no associations of women in the community, and being a participant in the pro Women's Liberation movement, this is particularly bothersome.<br /><br />But Joanna's search for \\"normal\\" women yields some results, and she meets Bobbie Markowe, another newcomer in Stepford who is as desperate as Joanna for finding somebody to talk to. They start to shake things up right away, but without getting very far due to the disinterest of the rest of the women. That is were the suspicions that something is not right start to build up in the two friends, and the novel gains speed and becomes the ride of a life time.<br /><br />In my mind, this work can be interpreted in different ways, and I find that for me it is a psychological thriller in a fantastic setting, which on top of that builds a critique of society regarding how people strive for perfection and the effects this has on our everyday lives. I believe this is what made the book so enjoyable for me all those years ago, and why I found it even better in my adulthood, since now I can see some of the finer points I missed when I was a teenager.<br /><br />The fact that the author writes a story that develops incredibly fast, without giving us respite, allows him to lead us better through this thought-provoking story. I bet that most people will find themselves reading this book in one, maybe two, sittings. For those that have watched the 2004 movie and have never read the book, I urge you to give this work a try and really find out what this story is about. Believe me the experience will be much better that the one you had with the film, and you will not be disappointed.rs ago, and why I found it even better in my adulthood, since now I can see some of the finer points I missed when I was a teenager. <br /> <br />The fact that the author writes a story that develops incredibly fast, without giving us respite, allows him to lead us better through this thought-provoking story. I bet that most people will find themselves reading this book in one, maybe two, sittings. For those that have watched the 2004 movie and have never read the book, I urge you to give this work a try and really find out what this story is about. Believe me the experience will be much better that the one you had with the film, and you will not be disappointed.	2005-06-22
US	45042957	R24AEDY125Q6ER	0525948651	862216455	A Killing Night (Max Freeman Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"Maybe my former girlfriend hadn't just used me"	Every time I finish one of the Max Freeman books I feel a little sad because I know I will have to wait about a year until the next one comes out. I have noticed that since the series started, King has become better in terms of his writing style and of building up the tension towards the culmination. He has also been able to keep us engaged and interested in the main character through relating the current events with Max's past. In this case, the only deviation from the pattern of the previous novels is that the Everglades do not really have a role in the story, and I found this to be a little disappointing.<br /><br />Even though Max still has possession of his shack in the Everglades, he has decided to move to Miami and live there for a while. The reason is that he is working most of his time for his friend Billy, a successful lawyer, and needs to be closer to the action. As I mentioned, this slight change of setting was a bit of a shocker for me, but Max is having fun, living by the beach in the Flamingo Villas. Regarding the sentimental aspects, Max's relationship with Sherry Richards has cooled down almost completely, which I bet is something most of us were not expecting to see.<br /><br />But before Jonathon King goes into an explanation of the current state of affairs in Max's life, he introduces us to the guy that will be the center of the investigation in this installment. The book begins full speed with a glimpse of the thought process of a stalker. He is outside a bar monitoring the behavior of a young woman that works as a bartender. And after we get a little information, the author shocks us repeatedly, since we find out that the stalker is the girl's boyfriend and that he is a cop!<br /><br />When Sherry contacts Max requesting help on a case involving missing women that work as bartenders, we have a pretty good idea of what is going on. The suspect is Colin O'Shea, a cop that used to work patrol with Max in Philly and who once saved his life. This is a perfect excuse for King to once again plunge into Max's past and continue to complete the picture we have of this fascinating character. It is also a chance to know a little more about how Max will handle the conflict of having on one side a woman with which he was in love and on the other a friend to whom he owes his life.<br /><br />The building up of the excitement shows how much King has improved in his writing, and the journey we go through before reaching the end is highly enjoyable. The author makes good use of a combination of omnipresent recounts and Max's own narrations, which provides a nice variety to the book. Also, adding a second case, involving an explosion in a cruise ship and the ensuing lawsuit by the crew, with one of the members being represented by Billy, helps move the story along. As an added bonus, we get to meet Megan, Max's ex-wife! It is only at the end that the quality of the story drops a little, when I think the author rushes the events too much. Nevertheless, this is a novel that will provide you with a pleasant experience.his is a perfect excuse for King to once again plunge into Max's past and continue to complete the picture we have of this fascinating character. It is also a chance to know a little more about how Max will handle the conflict of having on one side a woman with which he was in love and on the other a friend to whom he owes his life. <br /> <br />The building up of the excitement shows how much King has improved in his writing, and the journey we go through before reaching the end is highly enjoyable. The author makes good use of a combination of omnipresent recounts and Max's own narrations, which provides a nice variety to the book. Also, adding a second case, involving an explosion in a cruise ship and the ensuing lawsuit by the crew, with one of the members being represented by Billy, helps move the story along. As an added bonus, we get to meet Megan, Max's ex-wife! It is only at the end that the quality of the story drops a little, when I think the author rushes the events too much. Nevertheless, this is a novel that will provide you with a pleasant experience.	2005-06-20
US	45042957	R36YOJNEY8916L	0425129616	89648832	The Mysterious Affair at Styles (Hercule Poirot)	Books	4	21	25	N	N	"I had a premonition of approaching evil"	Readers everywhere are grateful to the sister of Agatha Christie for placing a bet with her, claiming that the woman that nowadays is known as the Queen of Mystery would not be able to write a good detective story. That is actually how this novel and the character of Hercule Poirot came into existence. In this first effort we can see the basic traits that later established Christie as one of the best mystery writers ever, though some of her technique is not yet completely polished. For example we get only a brief description of each of the characters, except for Poirot, so it is hard to picture some of them clearly. Nevertheless, the story deserves high praise, and I am pretty sure Agatha won the bet!<br /><br />The story is narrated by Hasting, who gets an invitation to spend some time in the country place of John Cavendish at Styles Court. Upon his arrival, Hasting notices that there is a certain level of tension in the family, since John's mother, Emily, has recently married a younger man, who the family considers to be a fortune hunter. Meanwhile, John and his brother Lawrance are having financial trouble, and a set of interesting characters surround Emily and have all kinds of suggesting exchanges with her. When the lady of the house is murdered it comes as no surprise. There is a main suspect, but also a myriad of possible candidates for the role of the killer.<br /><br />Luckily, Hasting runs into Poirot at the time of these events, and the small man with the peculiar moustache, who has retired from the Belgian police, is more than happy to help solve the baffling case. Those that have read other novels by Christie know that the author has an outstanding ability to mislead us into believing we have discovered the culprit, only to turn the tables on us and leave us dumbstruck. This case is no different...Ahhh, those little grey cells!	2005-06-16
US	45042957	R3BDTJS0YIOHVZ	067102731X	705687442	Every Dead Thing: A Charlie Parker Thriller	Books	4	24	25	N	N	"He thinks he is a demon"	I discovered John Connolly when I read \\"Bad Men\\" and the experience was extremely pleasant, so I decided that I had to read the books in the Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker series. In this first installment I found a novel that blends the mystery and horror genders in a superb manner and that keeps you guessing on what will happen next. One of the aspects I enjoyed most was that the main character is not one of those good guys you see in most mystery novels, who are always working towards a good cause and have no negative feelings towards others. Charlie is more human than that, and this carries with it a desire for revenge that will not be quenched easily.<br /><br />Why does he want revenge? Because his wife and three year-old daughter were brutally murdered and desecrated by a man that can only be considered a demon. Related to this event is that we see the author immerse the novel into the horror genre through the use of gory details about the murders by introducing a detail version of the police and autopsy reports. The descriptions are precise and Connolly does not pull any punches, going straight for a knockout of our endurance to take the effects of evil.<br /><br />Charlie was a cop at the time of the murders and had a problem with alcohol, but after the terrible shock, he left the force, became a private eye, and quitted cold turkey. Seven months later he is working on a case involving dangerous guys, who use bullets that can go through body armor and have no qualms about killing anyone that crosses their path. Concomitantly, Charlie is in constant search of the killer of his family, and the fact that the monster contacts him, gives him greater strength to pursue his desire for revenge.<br /><br />I like horror, so I have no problems with reading about the gruesome aspects of the murders described in the novel, but I understand that some people may not feel comfortable with these, so be aware of this aspect. The novel that starts this series also has a nice pace, which is helped by the constant switching back and forth between the two cases Parker is involved in. You will also get a few twists that will keep you on your toes until the conclusion. Overall, it is a book that left me eager to keep reading about this fascinating character and move along with this series.ce, which is helped by the constant switching back and forth between the two cases Parker is involved in. You will also get a few twists that will keep you on your toes until the conclusion. Overall, it is a book that left me eager to keep reading about this fascinating character and move along with this series. <br />	2005-06-14
US	45042957	R3OZTASC5CYCY	0394563158	770492577	The Pigeon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"How long did a pigeon live?"	After a rocky childhood as a result of World War II, Jonathan Noel had a good two decades of plain existence. He has been renting a room for that time and even though he does not even have a private bathroom he has decided to buy it. He works as doorman at a bank and day after day he follows the exact same schedule. But now that he is in his fifties, things are about to change.<br /><br />One Friday morning in the month of August 1984, while he was on his way to the bathroom, Jonathan sees a pigeon outside the door of his room and goes into panic. He is afraid that pigeons will overtake the apartment and he does not dare kill it. The pigeon causes a revolution in the main character's life that is baffling, but the metaphor is hard to miss. Jonathan embarks in a series of crazy plans to evade the object that causes his strain, going as far as moving into a hotel, even though he cannot afford it.<br /><br />Once more Suskind shows his ability for delving into the psyche of his characters and providing his readers with awesome insight. When we add to this author's writing ability to the mix, the result is more than satisfactory. This book in particular reminded me of the works of my favorite writer, Dostoevsky, since the Russian's main characters often enter a vicious circle in which they thinking something bad will happen and this becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy, which can only be prevented through great determination and effort. For those that have not read Suskind before, this is a good a place to start as any, and of course, make sure to not disregard his masterpiece \\"Perfume: The Story of a Murderer\\". Those that do know him already understand what I am talking about!	2005-06-14
US	45042957	R10XUJ8PVCPJHN	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"When you walk on the face again, then I can be forgiven"	After I finished with \\"Ender's Game\\" I read an interview with Orson Scott Card in which the author said that the only reason for expanding the first book in the series from a novella to a novel was to provide a more solid foundation to the real story he wanted to tell. Having loved the first book in the series I could not wait to get my hands on \\"Speaker for the Death\\" based on that \\"recommendation\\", and luckily I was not disappointed in the least.<br /><br />More than three-thousand years have passed since Ender annihilated the buggers without knowing what he was actually doing, and we find a world that shocks us in our core, since Ender is seen as a murderer of masses. On the other hand, most people venerate the Speaker for the Dead, unaware that this person is none other than that who they despise: Ender Wiggin. But even if for most people he is just an evil guy that lived three millenniums ago, we find him alive thanks to the intricacies of intergalactic travel. Ender is only thirty-eight years old and spends his time trying to find a world in which to provide the buggers with a new beginning; using the cocoon he has, which contains a new queen of the buggers.<br /><br />Those that read \\"Ender's Game\\" probably liked the fast pace of the book and the way in which the author engages the reader with the games and the battles. That book also contained ethical aspects that affected the story, but these were hinted at and not discussed too deeply. I was expecting something similar, but found that there was a surprise in store for me, with a book that is not fast-paced at all, but instead reads more like a reflection on philosophical and ethical issues. This does not sound as much fun, but let me tell you, the author surrounds these main topics with such fascinating events that the journey is a real treat. The final result was that I loved this book, and now even prefer it over the first installment.<br /><br />The story is set in Lusitania (in allusion to Portugal), a planet in which the human race cohabitates with the pequeninos (little ones in Portuguese). Here we find Pipo, a xenobiologist that is in charge of studying the behavior of the pequeninos, also called piggies, while interfering as little as possible. He is assisted in this task by his son Libo and an orphan called Novinha. When everything seems to be moving forward as planned and Libo and Novinha start to build a relationship that goes beyond friendship, Pipo ends up murdered by the piggies. Novinha knows that the reason behind this has to do with findings from the research she showed the man right before his demise, but does not know exactly what. As a she is disoriented and decides to summon a Speaker for the Dead to speak Pipo's death and bring closure to this incident. The speaker that is closest to the planet is none other than Ender, who now gets a new opportunity to interact with another alien race and who believes that the planet may be a good environment for bringing the buggers back to life. When he gets to Lusitania more than two decades later things have changed, and he finds a complex set of relationships and a web of lies that can destroy many people. Being able to handle this, plus the pequeninos, plus the buggers, seems a challenge that only Ender Wiggin can face.<br /><br />I would have to rate \\"Speaker for the Dead\\" as the best fantasy novel I have read so far, since not only it is extremely entertaining and develops in a cleverly and precisely created world, but also explores complex topics without losing an iota of the readers attention. In my mind this is clear indication of the outstanding quality of Orson Scott Card's writing and of his prodigious imagination. I am already looking forward to reading the third book in the series, even though I am aware that it is almost impossible that it matches this one in its quality. But I am willing to bet that it will be an extremely pleasant experience anyway.al), a planet in which the human race cohabitates with the pequeninos (little ones in Portuguese). Here we find Pipo, a xenobiologist that is in charge of studying the behavior of the pequeninos, also called piggies, while interfering as little as possible. He is assisted in this task by his son Libo and an orphan called Novinha. When everything seems to be moving forward as planned and Libo and Novinha start to build a relationship that goes beyond friendship, Pipo ends up murdered by the piggies. Novinha knows that the reason behind this has to do with findings from the research she showed the man right before his demise, but does not know exactly what. As a she is disoriented and decides to summon a Speaker for the Dead to speak Pipo's death and bring closure to this incident. The speaker that is closest to the planet is none other than Ender, who now gets a new opportunity to interact with another alien race and who believes that the planet may be a good environment for bringing the buggers back to life. When he gets to Lusitania more than two decades later things have changed, and he finds a complex set of relationships and a web of lies that can destroy many people. Being able to handle this, plus the pequeninos, plus the buggers, seems a challenge that only Ender Wiggin can face. <br /> <br />I would have to rate \\"Speaker for the Dead\\" as the best fantasy novel I have read so far, since not only it is extremely entertaining and develops in a cleverly and precisely created world, but also explores complex topics without losing an iota of the readers attention. In my mind this is clear indication of the outstanding quality of Orson Scott Card's writing and of his prodigious imagination. I am already looking forward to reading the third book in the series, even though I am aware that it is almost impossible that it matches this one in its quality. But I am willing to bet that it will be an extremely pleasant experience anyway.	2005-06-13
US	45042957	R1B3FY240UBY9X	0743267524	778315947	Faithful: Two Diehard Boston Red Sox Fans Chronicle the Historic 2004 Season	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"They played like a NL team, all hitting, no pitching"	That is how Stewart O'Nan described the Red Sox the first time he saw them play live, approximately a quarter of a century ago. He was a Pirates fan then, and sometimes in the book he sounds like he still is, but he took a liking for the Red Sox and became their fan too (if there is such a thing as a two-team fan). This is actually the only reason why I am giving this book four stars instead of five, since to me a die-hard fan cannot have two favorite teams.<br /><br />But O'Nan's comment may have lost some of its validity by the year 2004, since at this time the Red Sox still had an explosive offense but with some high profile pitchers to go with it. So O'Nan and King decided to start writing a book about the season, which would include their comments, in the style of a diary, and would also have email exchanges between them. The final result is a very entertaining book, which I trust will be appreciated by most baseball fans. In my case, I am not a Red Sox fan, but I have always looked at them with a certain liking (they do not play my team often, since mine is in the NL) and it was nice to see them \\"break the curse\\".<br /><br />The style of the book indicates clearly which of the two authors is writing each comment or diary entry, which provides very interesting insight when comparing the differences between these two fans. On one side, we have O'Nan, who is not a great writer, and focuses on a lot on specifics about the games and surrounding events. On the other, there is Stephen King, who as you probably know is one of the greatest writers in the last thirty years, and who aims higher. He mainly describes how what is happening makes him feel, what his thoughts are and how other people react. He also takes his chance at aiming a few strikes at some of the Boston commentators who have made his life miserable for years talking about the curse.<br /><br />It was really great to have a chance to review the 2004 Major League Baseball season and reminiscence: the important games, the rumors about the different trades, the conversations among fans with memorable phrases about doom and glory, and the exciting games with the Yankees (remember the one with the fight that turned things around?). If you are a baseball fan you should not let this book go to waste, so go get it now.about the different trades, the conversations among fans with memorable phrases about doom and glory, and the exciting games with the Yankees (remember the one with the fight that turned things around?). If you are a baseball fan you should not let this book go to waste, so go get it now.	2005-06-11
US	45042957	RHK77U8BB4AHE	0812968778	568965033	The Winter Queen: A Novel (An Erast Fandorin Mystery)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	I hope they speed up the translation pace	I was extremely pleased to discover the work of Georgian author Boris Akunin, since I have always been a fan of Russian literature and getting to experience a novel dealing with mystery / espionage from that origin was a real treat. If I had to define the writing style of Akunin, I would say that he creates characters that show the characteristic inner turmoil present in the work of several Russian authors, like Dostoyevsky, and uses storylines that can be mirrored with a mixture of John LeCarre and Arthur Conan Doyle.<br /><br />This is the first installment of a series of eleven books (up to this date) featuring the Moscow detective Erast Fandorin, and was originally published under the title \\"Azazel\\". Our hero lives in the nineteenth century, and has been unlucky in life, since his family's fortune was lost quickly and completely, leaving him in a precarious condition and working as a catalyst for his decision of joining the police force. He is getting to know the ropes around the department when he is assigned to the case of a man that committed suicide in a park. It is supposed to be an open and shut case, but Fandorin's zeal and eagerness for knowing more about the poor individual leads him to discover a complicated web of lies and deceit, which at its center holds and international conspiracy.<br /><br />I enjoyed how the author describes the thoughts of our main character, since this gives the story a depth that goes beyond the mystery at hand, and creates a bond with the reader that keeps us interested in the series. Besides Fandorin, there is an eclectic set of characters that provide the story with interesting dialogues and variety of personalities. Mixing a bit of espionage in the story helps too, since the pace picks up considerably when Fandorin goes around Europe trying to reach the bottom of the case. There are also a couple of very interesting and amusing comments regarding the invention of telephones and the origin of the Russian roulette, which I bet will get a smile out of you.<br /><br />Finally, for those unfamiliar with Russian literature, let me warn you, since in most American novels you find that the author creates adversity as a prelude for the happy resolution and only occasionally breaks this pattern. This is not the way Russian literature works; but I guarantee that the excellent writing and interesting story will make it a pleasant experience anyway. In my case, I enjoyed the novel greatly and am looking forward to reading the next one in the series. There are a total of three books that have been translated to English thus far, and I hope that they hurry to translate and publish the rest.h I bet will get a smile out of you.  <br /> <br />Finally, for those unfamiliar with Russian literature, let me warn you, since in most American novels you find that the author creates adversity as a prelude for the happy resolution and only occasionally breaks this pattern. This is not the way Russian literature works; but I guarantee that the excellent writing and interesting story will make it a pleasant experience anyway. In my case, I enjoyed the novel greatly and am looking forward to reading the next one in the series. There are a total of three books that have been translated to English thus far, and I hope that they hurry to translate and publish the rest. <br />	2005-06-08
US	45042957	R204WCV0EQ2WKN	0679419950	85819572	Mr. Summer's Story	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Suskind is a master storyteller	A man tells the story of how he met Mr. Summer when he was a kid and how this peculiar man changed his life, starting with stopping him from committing suicide. The narrator was at the time planning to jump from a tree, and Mr. Summer was in one of his usual walks that constantly took him around town with his distinctive walking stick and carrying his backpack. Nobody knew much about Mr. Summer, and he never talked with other people, but he took the time to dissuade our storyteller from ending his life at such a young age. As we get to read more about the relationship with Mr. Summer, we notice that the story may really be about something else, but I will let you figure that one out on your own.<br /><br />Suskind shows how good a writer he is through various aspects present in this story. First, this is a book that can be read by children and adults alike, even though some of the finer symbolisms may be hard to understand for kids. In this aspect, I find Suskind similar to Snicket and Rowling, whose books appeal to all ages. But Suskind's writing has a more serious tone and aims at a broader topic. Another aspect that really surprised me is how the author can infuse the story with such level of emotion and make it complete in such a brief number of pages. He accomplished what few can, one of the examples off the top of my head being Ira Levin with her novel \\"The Stepford Wives\\". Finally, I love the way in which Suskind writes, how he describes people and places, and how he builds up the momentum of his stories. I was extremely pleased with his famous novel \\"Perfume: The Story of a Murderer\\", and was rewarded for deciding to search for some of his other works.<br /><br />Besides the great writing, this book has a set of illustrations by Sempe that complement the story nicely and that give it a liveliness not usually seen in other places. Of course, kids will certainly appreciate this feature. I am now planning to continue exploring Suskind's work in the hope of finding more reading of this same quality. In the meantime, I highly recommend this book, along with \\"Perfume...\\" to those that love good literature.finding more reading of this same quality. In the meantime, I highly recommend this book, along with \\"Perfume...\\" to those that love good literature.	2005-06-05
US	45042957	R39MLK0LH015ZW	0151010900	575089176	The Facts Behind the Helsinki Roccamatios	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Early works that shows sparks of what Martel can achieve	I have not read \\"Life of Pi\\" yet, but I have heard so many good things about that novel that when I saw this collection of short stories in the bookstore I was intrigued. I started browsing through the foreword, and immediately came to the conclusion that Martel has an innate ability for writing that places him in a select group of authors. That is why I decided to read this book, which contains four stories from the early stages of his career. When I compare the writing used in these stories with the one in the foreword, I cannot help feeling that the author has evolved considerably, but the stories still show early signs of a great writer.<br /><br />The topics of these short works are highly unusual, which I believe makes them interesting overall, but at some points I found myself feeling that the author was trying to be unique to the extreme, and therefore, going overboard. The first story is the one that gives name to the collection, and the one I found to be the most touching. In this narration, the author presents the account of his relationship with a friend from college and the events that unfolded after this friend was diagnosed with AIDS. Martel shows a natural ability for reaching the heart of the reader with its vibrant descriptions of the emotions the characters experience when faced with such an enormous tragedy. Maybe the fact that the story is based on a real life event, that the author had to face, helped him with making it so vivid.<br /><br />The other three stories use as topics a peculiar concert in Washington DC with references to how the Vietnam war affected the life of many, a collection of letters with different outcomes regarding the termination of a prisoner waiting for his death sentence, and a machine that makes mirrors by feeding on stories. As you can quickly realize, none of these have as a topic one that you are likely to find in works by other authors, and that makes them unique and valuable based on the author's imagination. The fact that the writing is not as polished as one would like is just evidence that the author was in the process of discovering himself and searching for the style that suited him best. It is extremely interesting to see how Martel wrote before becoming famous, and this is enough reason to make the book worth reading. - 3.5 stars.he fact that the writing is not as polished as one would like is just evidence that the author was in the process of discovering himself and searching for the style that suited him best. It is extremely interesting to see how Martel wrote before becoming famous, and this is enough reason to make the book worth reading. - 3.5 stars.	2005-06-03
US	45042957	R33WM3ZJWEL3QN	0345455207	290935571	Utopia	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting thriller in a sci-fi setting	I have read a couple of books by the duo Preston-Child, and have really enjoyed the experience, so when I found out about this novel that features Lincoln Child flying solo, I could not help but wonder if it would be up to par. As it turns out, the outcome is a high quality novel that keeps us interested throughout the story, not only with the action that moves the plot forward, but also with the detailed descriptions of the amazing setting and awe-inspiring technology.<br /><br />Utopia is a futuristic amusement park set in the Mojave Desert that does not follow the basic traits of any of its competitors. This differentiation has served the park as a big competitive advantage and ensured its success; but this also makes it an attractive target for evil-doers. And sure enough it all starts when the security systems in one of the most popular rides in the park, Notting Hill, fail and as a result the management of the park starts reviewing the system that control the park's operations.<br /><br />That is why we find Andrew Warren, the creator of the park's metanet (the system that runs all robots), arriving at the park with her daughter, but without really knowing the reason for being summoned there. On that same day, a terrorist threatens the park's security and provides examples of how much damage he can do unless his demands are met. Here we plunge into a frantic action that keeps us on the edge of our seats until the end, since not only Warren and his team have to stop the terrorist for everyone's sake, but Warren's daughter is in the park and could be a target herself.<br /><br />The author adds another layer to the story in terms of the relationship among some of the characters. Warren had a relationship not long ago with Sarah, the woman in charge of running Utopia, and his daughter does not even want to consider the possibility of seeing them together again. Sarah has a relationship with the guy in charge of the park's security, and Andrew meets an interesting gal that is in charge of running his creation, the metanet. The fact that it is obvious that the terrorist has help from the inside makes this relationships all the more interesting.<br /><br />Lincoln Child has hit the nail on the head with this one, providing an easy to read novel that serves as a great source of entertainment for a rainy afternoon. I think the key to the success to this novel is that besides the attractive plot, it adds on top of that great descriptions about the park operations, and a set of characters with interesting relationships that spice things up. The finished product is worthy of being recommended.esting gal that is in charge of running his creation, the metanet. The fact that it is obvious that the terrorist has help from the inside makes this relationships all the more interesting.  <br /> <br />Lincoln Child has hit the nail on the head with this one, providing an easy to read novel that serves as a great source of entertainment for a rainy afternoon. I think the key to the success to this novel is that besides the attractive plot, it adds on top of that great descriptions about the park operations, and a set of characters with interesting relationships that spice things up. The finished product is worthy of being recommended.	2005-06-03
US	45042957	R2JCH8IYZFAJJ0	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"Mother, forgive, please forgive"	In her debut writing fiction, Sue Monk Kidd shows a promising future and delivers a touching novel that left me eagerly waiting for her next work. I may be mistaken, but it seemed to me that the author decided to follow the lead of Harper Lee and take some of the elements in Lee's masterpiece and only book, \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\", and apply them to a different story. The most striking similarity is that the book shows life and the reigning prejudice in the South at the time through the eyes of a little girl. Kidd is not at the level of Lee, but that is nothing to be ashamed of, since only a few authors can claim that privilege.<br /><br />Lilly is a fourteen-year-old girl that lives with her abusive father in a Peach farm in Georgia. The time when the story starts, using diary style, is July 1st of 1964, the day before the Civil Rights Act was signed. This setting clearly indicates that we will witness discrimination through the eyes of a kid, and we get to experience this pretty fast when Rosaleen, a black woman that works in Lilly's house, is attacked and subsequently thrown in jail for trying to register to vote.<br /><br />Lilly is stuck with a father that does not care about her, and does not give her any encouragement whatsoever. While other people, like her teachers, tell Lilly that she can be anything she wants, her father punishes her for reading. On top of this, Lilly feels guilty for the death of her mother. Even though Lilly does not remember the events of when she was four years old clearly, she thinks she accidentally shot her mother. So when Rosaleen ends up as a prisoner in the hospital after being beaten in jail, Lilly decides to help her escape and run away with her in search of the Black Madonna, a woman that appears in a photo her mother had. That is how they end up in Tiburon, SC and a series of exciting and touching events unfold. The fact that a child narrates these, gives them a sense of honesty and sometimes humor that helps move the reading along. Overall this is a very good first novel that deserves a chance.eading along. Overall this is a very good first novel that deserves a chance.	2005-05-31
US	45042957	R1F90JMH4SO0YO	0060721561	93856390	Falls the Shadow	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"Leave him where he is, leave it be"	I am new to William Lashner and the Victor Carl series, but after reading this novel I know that I will go back to check out the previous ones and I will keep checking for his future works. There are several aspects I enjoyed about this author's work, some of them related to the plot and others to the writing style.<br /><br />For example, I liked reading a story told by a hero that is imperfect. He is not the tough guy that beats everyone up when needed to, or the super successful lawyer that always has all the answers and knows how to proceed. Victor Carl is an average man, who works as a lawyer, and whose fate will involve him with a mysterious character named Dr. Bob. Lashner starts the story when Victor is in a bar with Bob and when the latter goes to the restroom, Victor takes his glass and puts it in an evidence bag. This is an example of the kind of tools the author uses to pique our interest.<br /><br />Victor then proceeds to tell us the story of how he got to that situation with Bob, the dentist. The events that are part of this narration are complex and as a result the novel possesses plenty of twists and turns. It all starts with Francois Dube, a Frenchman accused of killing his wife, and with the vast amount of evidence the district attorney has against him. Victor dislikes his client but needs the money, so he takes the case. Also, he loves fighting for the underdog, and this situation qualifies perfectly. When Victor experiences a toothache, and someone recommends Dr. Bob, the story gets really interesting.<br /><br />In my experience, I have determined that when mystery novels have side plots they are more riveting. In this case, Victor is assigned a pro bono case involving a kid named Daniel Rose, and he has to make a recommendation on the adequacy of the kid living with his mother. This will lead to a meeting with an enigmatic old man that pushes him to dig to the core of the issue. This side plot works well with the rest of the story, helping to keep the pace up.<br /><br />Lashner has clearly and successfully won me over. He has done this through his clever writing and his ability to create three-dimensional characters that make reading a pleasure. The fact that he knows how to use humor through Victor's comments is an added benefit that makes the book even easier to read and to enjoy. As I mentioned, I have not read the previous installments in the series, but I believe this book stands well on its own. So if you are considering trying out this author, my recommendation is to go ahead, I believe you will enjoy it.ing to keep the pace up. <br /> <br />Lashner has clearly and successfully won me over. He has done this through his clever writing and his ability to create three-dimensional characters that make reading a pleasure. The fact that he knows how to use humor through Victor's comments is an added benefit that makes the book even easier to read and to enjoy. As I mentioned, I have not read the previous installments in the series, but I believe this book stands well on its own. So if you are considering trying out this author, my recommendation is to go ahead, I believe you will enjoy it.	2005-05-30
US	45042957	R2X7XNFNB74JN5	B00076VE3Y	798860446	Eventide	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Same quality as "Plainsong": Excellent!	In the previous novel in this set, Haruf clearly showed that he is a master storyteller. He chose a simple plot, which was seemingly as plain as the title, but he reached the reader's heart with his artistry. In \\"Eventide\\", he goes a step farther, by building on what he created and delivering a story with more shocking events, but just as good.<br /><br />Victoria, the young girl who delivered her baby girl at the conclusion of \\"Plainsong\\", has played an important role in the life of the old brothers McPheron. And they have gotten used to having her and Katie around, but now Victoria is leaving them to go to college, and they have to face their newfound solitude. But they seem to be managing OK, until disaster strikes, and the only tool for survival becomes resorting to the power of love and friendship.<br /><br />In order to give some variety, Haruf assigns a less prominent role to Tom Guthrey and his kids, characters that were central to \\"Plainsong\\". Instead, he presents a family that has conflicts to spare, a mature boy that has to take care of his grandfather, and a woman with two girls abandoned by her husband.<br /><br />Once more, the author shows a marked ability for describing human emotions and to present everyday situations with such passion and skill that the reader cannot help feeling immersed in the novel. In that way, we get to share the problems, sadness, desperation and joy of the main characters as if the events were affecting ourselves or those we love. These are some of the reasons why I believe this is one of the best novels I have ever read.	2005-05-27
US	45042957	R3ASLTUY7P6Y2O	0064408655	43061444	The Vile Village (A Series of Unfortunate Events, No. 7)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"It takes a village to raise a child"	The cycle keeps repeating itself, the Baudelaires are again out of a guardian and we get to read another great story by Lemony Snicket. Mr. Poe, the executor of the kids' estate, is running out of options, and his choices in the past have all proven to be dreadful. In this case, the solution he finds is unconventional, when Violet, Klaus and Sunny take \\"advantage\\" of a new program by which entire towns take care of children.<br /><br />The options are plenty, but when the orphans are looking at the list they find a village with a curious name that piques their interest. This name is no other than VFD, acronym that is connected to the Quagmire triplets and to Count Olaf's secret. If you have read the previous books you know by now that the two triplets (yes you read right!) are the only friends the Baudelaires have, and that the two unfortunate souls have been kidnapped by the evil count.<br /><br />In terms of the story, Snicket follows the usual winning formula, with the Baudelaires searching for a new beginning, and finding some hope before the devilish count shows up and spoils everything. The author also continues to use his hilarious structure, presenting definitions of words in a creative way, letting Klaus and Violet translate what her little sister wants to say, and distributing a few surprises here and there.<br /><br />The siblings stay in VFD is interesting to say the least, where they meet a group of ancient citizens with a large set of rules, a kind person who does not have the guts to stand up to injustice and a baffling mystery in the form of a set of poems. The series have been increasing in intensity and the characters are gaining more and more depth. Thus, fans of this series will not be disappointed with this novel.	2005-05-22
US	45042957	R3K662CPGWNC0P	0385508611	575990647	Suspect	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"Now the coincidences are starting to pile up"	Robotham delivers a complex an intricate plot, which keeps us interested throughout the novel, and only occasionally shows his inexperience, when the twists and turns become excessive. One of the aspects that he handles best is the pace of the story, speeding up the action when needed, as a tool to keep us hooked. As a result I found myself reading the novel in only a couple of sittings, always promising myself I would stop for a while after the chapter I was reading ended,  and finding myself breaking the promise once and again.<br /><br />Joseph O' Loughlin is a psychoanalyst, who besides having his own practice helps the police on occasions as a negotiator. The novel begins with him trying to prevent a seventeen-year-old kid from jumping from the roof of a building. The boy is terminally ill as a result of a brain tumor; so right away we get to experience Joseph's ability to deal with urgent and delicate situations, and get a glimpse of his more humane side. It is hard to not like this character right away. He carries a normal life, with a beautiful wife, who succeeds in her efforts to remain young through a combination of yoga, Pilates and circuit training, and a lovely eight-year old daughter that goes by the name of Charlie.<br /><br />But not everything is as good as it looks, since Joseph is suffering from Parkinson's disease and is afraid to tell others, or even broach the topic in depth with his wife. He is trying to find solace in his job and his community service, which help keep his mind away from his own issues. An example of this is the speeches he delivers for a group of prostitutes on the dangers they have to face in their profession, and on what is the best way to avoid these dangers or handle them if absolutely necessary. During one of these sessions, he learns that the police have found the dead body of what they believe was a prostitute. Joseph gets a request from help from the detective in charge of the investigation and decides to lend a hand.<br /><br />This is when things start to get complicated; the dead woman is one of Joseph's former patients, Catherine McBride, who stopped seeing him after he had to terminate the relationship because she had a crush on him. Now, Joseph is not only professionally involved in the case, but also personally, and he has a current patient that seems to be connected to the case too. When evidence from the past begins to surface and detective Ruiz starts seeing Joseph as a suspect, we are faced with an exciting mystery that keeps us guessing every step of the way until its conclusion.<br /><br />Since I criticized the vast amount of twists and turn, I also have to state that the way in which Robotham presents the main characters in the novel is a big plus. I am saying this because the author breaks away from the pattern we see so frequently in mysteries when the main character is the epitome of good and has to battle evil and succeed. In this case we get a main character with flaws like most people, and who has to deal with them as best as he can.<br /><br />Overall, I believe this is a successful debut, and I am sure experience will help this author in providing his readers with excellent novels in the future. The raw materials are there, he just needs a little polishing to make them shine more. Those people looking for a fast-paced mystery should seriously consider giving \\"Suspect\\" a try.hand. <br /> <br />This is when things start to get complicated; the dead woman is one of Joseph's former patients, Catherine McBride, who stopped seeing him after he had to terminate the relationship because she had a crush on him. Now, Joseph is not only professionally involved in the case, but also personally, and he has a current patient that seems to be connected to the case too. When evidence from the past begins to surface and detective Ruiz starts seeing Joseph as a suspect, we are faced with an exciting mystery that keeps us guessing every step of the way until its conclusion.  <br /> <br />Since I criticized the vast amount of twists and turn, I also have to state that the way in which Robotham presents the main characters in the novel is a big plus. I am saying this because the author breaks away from the pattern we see so frequently in mysteries when the main character is the epitome of good and has to battle evil and succeed. In this case we get a main character with flaws like most people, and who has to deal with them as best as he can.  <br /> <br />Overall, I believe this is a successful debut, and I am sure experience will help this author in providing his readers with excellent novels in the future. The raw materials are there, he just needs a little polishing to make them shine more. Those people looking for a fast-paced mystery should seriously consider giving \\"Suspect\\" a try.	2005-05-20
US	45042957	R2ESNHLL2SX5Q	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"He was just like everybody else now"	I have read my fair share of fantasy and have therefore found several cases in which the author creates a well-crafted world. Orson Scott Card excels in this aspect, presenting a setting that is on the borderline between a fantastic world and a possible future for our own existence. One of the aspects that I enjoyed most about this work is the complex set of rules created by the author and the heavy weight politics and philosophy play in the story.<br /><br />Andrew Wiggin, also known as Ender due to his sister's inability for voicing his real name, is a very special little kid. His parents received a special permission from the government to have a third child due to their outstanding genes, overriding the law that prevents having more that two kids. As a result Ender has worn a monitor since his birth and every one of his actions has been analyzed in extreme detail. But now the monitor needs to come off, and the people that have been monitoring him are interested in making life difficult for him to unveil his reactions.<br /><br />Of course it does not stop there, and when the offer from Colonel Graff for joining the Battle school is presented to Ender, he has to go fulfill his duty and leave behind his family and the human being he cares about the most, his sister Valentine. The Battle School should not be taken lightly. Eighty years ago, the humans fought a war against the buggers and were only able to survive thanks to a brilliant commander. Now humanity depends on the ability of the high ranks of the military to find a new leader, and Ender is one of the hopes they have for salvation. The fact that he is younger than most in Battle School will certainly make things difficult for him, and keep things interesting for us.<br /><br />Besides providing with great entertainment, this book makes us think about what may lie in the future, what are the ethical implications of war and whether or not is OK to achieve our ends without caring for what the means used are. We also get an interesting fictional look at life in the military, and our fare share of action. One thing about this book is undeniable; it is like nothing you have ever read, so if you are looking for something different, this one is for you.e also get an interesting fictional look at life in the military, and our fare share of action. One thing about this book is undeniable; it is like nothing you have ever read, so if you are looking for something different, this one is for you.	2005-05-16
US	45042957	R35G65YWLZTYBH	042520300X	825521848	Visions in Death	Books	4	27	29	N	N	"She thinks last of her child."	Nora Roberts, writing as J.D. Robb, has created a successful series based on a few basic principles. The first, and in my opinion, most important aspect is a fascinating heroine, who presents different layers that the author has been revealing in each installment and will certainly continue to do so. Lieutenant Eve Dallas is a tough cop, who is relentless in her pursue of justice and feels as if the victims were hers to save. On the other hand, she is the wife of the billionaire Roarke, and has to deal with parties and charity events in which she is expected to mingle and maintain polite chit-chat with the guests. She has been adjusting slowly to this area of her life and even though she does not like it, she has learned to accept it. The fact that Eve was abused by her father when she was a child and had to kill him in order to escape also plays an important role in the development of the story and in almost every case Eve faces. Her husband also has a complex past, involving an abusing father who killed Roarke's mother and then lied to him about who his real mother was. Only recently did the billionaire learned the truth about this and reunited with what was left of his family.<br /><br />Besides the two main characters, Robb has created a supporting cast that adds appeal to the series and which I consider to be the second factor in its success. Peabody is Eve's former aide and current partner who has recently made detective and who usually adds a good part of humor to the narration with her witty comments. She is in love with McNabb, a policeman working in the Electronic Detectives Division, and they are in the process of moving together to a new apartment. There are other interesting characters: Feeney, Eve's trainer and mentor, Mavis, Eve's best friend, Nadine Furst, a reporter for Channel 75 who has become a close friend with Eve, Charles, a licensed companion who is now dating a doctor, and several others. One of the most appealing aspects of the series has to do with the development of the stories of each of these people, and that is why I recommend reading the series in order.<br /><br />The third and final element that helps create a superb series is the cleverly crafted world in which the action takes place: New York in the year 2059. The setting presents several characteristics that make it very different from our world, like cars that fly, drones that take care of household chores, the ban on firearms, the anticancer vaccine, the legalization of prostitution, the difficulty for getting real coffee, etc. Also, the advances in terms of technology require criminals to be more clever and careful when committing their crimes, and we usually end up reading about complex mysteries. In this novel, Eve is summoned to the scene of a ghastly murder. The victim was raped and strangled using a red ribbon and before leaving, the killer took out her eyes as a memento. The poor woman had a four-year-old kid and worked as hired help for a wealthy couple, and there is nothing that indicates that someone would have wanted to hurt her.<br /><br />Everything is business as normal until Celina Sanchez shows up wanting to talk to Eve and claiming she has information about the murder. Celina is a psychic and claims that she saw the killing in a vision. Even though Eve does not really believe in this stuff, she goes along with it following Peabody's advice and realizing that if it does not help at least it will not hurt either. This is not the first time Robb uses supernatural events in the series, but in her previous attempt she went too far making it hardly believable. In the present try the results were much better, and since the case Eve is facing is one of the best mysteries in the series so far, the overall quality of the novel benefits even more.<br /><br />As usual, Robb creates a good balance between the police procedural and the development of the personal stories of the characters in the series. Of course, the romantic scenes are still present through the narration, but without overdoing it. I was very pleased with this installment, and I am looking forward to the next one. A final word of advice, the publisher's blurb gives out important information regarding events towards the end of the novel. I would have preferred to read the book without knowing these facts. The good thing is that even if you read them, there will be a surprise waiting for you.c scenes are still present through the narration, but without overdoing it. I was very pleased with this installment, and I am looking forward to the next one. A final word of advice, the publisher's blurb gives out important information regarding events towards the end of the novel. I would have preferred to read the book without knowing these facts. The good thing is that even if you read them, there will be a surprise waiting for you.	2005-04-16
US	45042957	R1BJJYCOT6WMK8	1593976461	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	"You can try anything and everything"	When reviewing a book, if I have read previous works by the same author, I cannot help but use those as a basis of comparison. Wolfe is the creator of two great novels I have read in the past, \\"The Bonfire of the Vanities\\" and \\"A Man in Full\\", and the quality of these forces me to say that \\"I am Charlotte Simmons\\" is a sub par effort by an author that can deliver so much more. Maybe it is the topic, which centers on how frivolous life in college is for most students, that led the author to write the book in a simple and unpolished way. But even if that was the case, I feel that Tom Wolfe is capable of much more; he set the bar too high previously, and that is part of the reason why he did not pass mustard now.<br /><br />I have to acknowledge that the story is entertaining, and even though sometimes the author goes into overdrive with the use of the f-word, I believe he is doing that only in order to prove a point about the way things are in the environment in which the novel develops (he spend a considerable amount of time in college campuses around the US doing research). This novel, which is told in a soap-opera tone, is based on the experiences of Charlotte Simmons during her freshman year at Dupont, one of the top universities in the nation (in the book, since it is a fictitious place). Charlotte excels in her studies in a little town in North Carolina and is extremely excited about the prospect of going to such a prestigious university, where surely everyone carries interesting and enlightening conversations and activities focus on the mind.<br /><br />But reality bites, since Charlotte finds that most people are in a party mood, alcohol is easily obtainable in the dorms and as a result parties are wild, most professors venerate athletes instead of good students, and if an athlete makes an attempt at being serious about his studies, he is put down by his peers. That is the case of Jojo Johanssen, a starter in the team that won the NCAA basketball tournament and a guy that wants to learn other things besides how to play basketball, but who has a hard time dealing with the pressure.<br /><br />Before starting with the novel, Wolfe presents the conclusions of an experiment by Noble prize winner Prof. Starling, who is a Dupont's scholar. The experiment, which involves cats, concludes that if a group presents a marked behavior due to physical changes, an observant group that lacks the physical characteristics may show the same behavior by imitation. This relates to our story, because Charlotte is not immune to peer pressure, and it is clear from the beginning of the story that we will get to see if she yields to it, following the pattern of the experiment, or if she remains faithful to her convictions without faltering.<br /><br />As I already mentioned this is a light and entertaining read, so if this is what you are looking for, you will be satisfied. However, if you are looking for the kind of literary efforts Wolfe has presented in the past, you will feel that something is missing.nt and a guy that wants to learn other things besides how to play basketball, but who has a hard time dealing with the pressure.  <br /> <br />Before starting with the novel, Wolfe presents the conclusions of an experiment by Noble prize winner Prof. Starling, who is a Dupont's scholar. The experiment, which involves cats, concludes that if a group presents a marked behavior due to physical changes, an observant group that lacks the physical characteristics may show the same behavior by imitation. This relates to our story, because Charlotte is not immune to peer pressure, and it is clear from the beginning of the story that we will get to see if she yields to it, following the pattern of the experiment, or if she remains faithful to her convictions without faltering. <br /> <br />As I already mentioned this is a light and entertaining read, so if this is what you are looking for, you will be satisfied. However, if you are looking for the kind of literary efforts Wolfe has presented in the past, you will feel that something is missing.	2005-04-04
US	45042957	R83JJQ8YO068J	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"The day of the warrior is gone, my son"	I am a big fantasy fan; and every time I found myself at the bookstore I would see the vast amount of books by Brian Jacques on the shelves and wonder if it was a series I would like. I had heard that the books were written for young adults, so I was not sure if they were my cup of tea. Luckily I decided to give \\"Redwall\\" a try, since the result was very satisfying. The author uses a wide variety of animals in order to create this fantasy setting, and portrays the typical battle of good versus evil in a crisp and simple way.<br /><br />The main character in this first book of the series is a small mouse, Matthias, who is a novice and who dreams with becoming a warrior someday. His idol is Martin the Warrior, who according to many was the bravest mouse to ever set foot on earth. Matthias lives in Redwall and is part of the Order of Abbot Mortimer, and Order that professes peace and that has vowed never to harm another living creature. But all this peace and happiness is now in jeopardy, since Cluny the Scourge, a ruthless rat with an evil army, is heading towards Redwall, leaving mayhem through his path.<br /><br />Cluny is the subject of a legend used by parents to scare their kids and to get them to do what they request, but now the threat is real and has to be faced. The terrifying rat is relentless, but hides a secret of his own, since in his nightmares, he receives the visit of a brave mouse that puts him to shame. The mouse is no other than Martin, who also talks to Matthias in his dreams. When the attack finally comes, we get to see a David versus Goliath type of fight that keeps up the excitement and that looks as if it will only end with the total destruction of one of the contestants.<br /><br />Jacques proves that he has a lively imagination, and presents a world with many different creatures, who behave by the rules of what people usually associate them with. For example, the rats are evil, the foxes are sly, etc. The narration has a good pace and the book never gets boring, so overall it is a recommended experience. People that like straightforward plots will probably enjoy this novel. However, those looking for complex fantasy, in the style of George R. R. Martin, will be disappointed.he book never gets boring, so overall it is a recommended experience. People that like straightforward plots will probably enjoy this novel. However, those looking for complex fantasy, in the style of George R. R. Martin, will be disappointed.	2005-03-30
US	45042957	RG540HSQM55N1	0425197956	645136087	Divided in Death	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"The connection between you father and mine is there"	J. D. Robb hits the nail on the head with this one, with a combination of fast-paced action and baffling developments that reveal facts from Eve's past. The novel grabs the reader's attention right away when we find Reva Ewing in a furious state driving to the house of her best friend. She has recently received information that her husband is cheating on her with Felicity, and her anguish is a combination of the betrayal per se and the fact that the person betraying her is a close friend. Reva is an ex-Secret Service agent who nowadays works with security systems, so she has no problem in accessing Felicity's house, since she was the one in charge of installing the security. But things take a sharp turn for the worse when she finds her husband and her friend dead in Felicity's bed, and Eva is attacked and turned unconscious by the killer, who was still at the scene.<br /><br />Things are a little different from usual because this time it is Roarke who receives the call. It turns out the Reva works in one of his companies and is also the daughter of Caro, the administrative assistant of the billionaire. In that way, both spouses become involved in the case, Eve as primary investigator and Roarke as a consultant and interested party. It has been a while since we found Eve trying to clean the name of a suspect, the last time was when she had to prove that her friend Mavis was innocent of murder. In this case, her investigation leads her to associate Reva with a project to stop the Doomsday Worm. This in turn leads to interesting developments that end with her finding the truth about her surname and a very disturbing fact related to the abuse she suffered as a child in the hands of her father.<br /><br />In the last few novels we have seen Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke go through an emotional roller-coaster, and the ride continues in this installment. This is in my opinion one of the most important aspects in this series, since each time we are looking forward to learning more about the characters' past and the new events that occur in their lives. We also observe that other characters show interesting developments in their paths. For example Peabody, Eve's former aide, has passed the detective's exam and is now Eve's partner. Peabody is one of the most charming characters in the series, and her sense of humor works miracles for keeping the narration flowing seamlessly.<br /><br />The fact that the novel develops in 2059 allows Robb to create a world in which she can apply her view in terms of how society will evolve. For example firearms are banned, there is a vaccine for cancer and droids take care of menial chores. In this novel, almost surreptitiously, the author delivers another tidbit of information about what is going on in 2059, when Reva says: \\"I carried a weapon when I stood for the President, and once took a hit for her\\".<br /><br />I think that writing as J. D. Robb, Nora Roberts has found a niche of readers that were looking for a good sci-fi and mystery mix. I count myself among those readers and will continue to follow this series as long as the quality remains at the high level it has shown throughout its more than fifteen books.o learning more about the characters' past and the new events that occur in their lives. We also observe that other characters show interesting developments in their paths. For example Peabody, Eve's former aide, has passed the detective's exam and is now Eve's partner. Peabody is one of the most charming characters in the series, and her sense of humor works miracles for keeping the narration flowing seamlessly. <br /> <br />The fact that the novel develops in 2059 allows Robb to create a world in which she can apply her view in terms of how society will evolve. For example firearms are banned, there is a vaccine for cancer and droids take care of menial chores. In this novel, almost surreptitiously, the author delivers another tidbit of information about what is going on in 2059, when Reva says: \\"I carried a weapon when I stood for the President, and once took a hit for her\\".  <br /> <br />I think that writing as J. D. Robb, Nora Roberts has found a niche of readers that were looking for a good sci-fi and mystery mix. I count myself among those readers and will continue to follow this series as long as the quality remains at the high level it has shown throughout its more than fifteen books.	2005-03-24
US	45042957	R2LM8VT16PJ4V7	0375725849	835505349	Perfume: The Story of a Murderer	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"What does a baby smell like..."	The novel tells the story of the abominable Jean-Baptiste Grenouille, a man that dictated his actions according to the influence that scents had on him. Right from his birth Grenouille is different from other babies, he is born to a mother that is used to killing her newborns immediately after they see the light. But in this case she can not accomplish her purpose fast enough. The people around the fish cart in which she was giving birth are able to stop her and save the baby. As a result Jean's mother is decapitated for her crimes and he ends up in an orphanage with the cloister of Saint-Merri.<br /><br />There is something disturbing about the baby, it has no scent. That is why it is almost impossible to find a wet nurse who accepts to take care of him, no matter what the monetary reward is. To make matters worse, Father Terrier comes up with the notion that the baby is a monster, so he takes poor Jean to the house of a woman who has no sense of smell due to a nose injury. This is when the main character starts a journey that will take him to different places, allowing him to increase his sense of smell further and concurrently develop his madness and start acting on it. His actions are the result of having an incredible sense of smell, to the extreme of finding words to be poor instruments for describing the scents he is exposed to. One day he finds a miraculous perfume emanating from a girl and in his effort to capture it, he kills her. But that is just the beginning.<br /><br />Suskind presents a novel that is highly original in its topic and that allows him to show his talent as a writer, mainly in terms of his descriptions of the different scents of the eighteen century in France, which it where the action develops. I was surprised when I realized that it is possible to create an extremely clear picture of the environment just by describing the odors present in it.<br /><br />The fact that in my opinion makes this novel fascinating is that the author creates a main character that is extremely complex and that even though commit atrocious acts, generates a fair amount of pity in the readers. I am convinced that an interesting character, a well-written prose and an appealing plot are more than enough to transport a novel to the highest echelons of its genre, and this case is no exception. I found it really hard to put this novel down, which is why I find myself compelled to recommend it to those that enjoy good literature.a main character that is extremely complex and that even though commit atrocious acts, generates a fair amount of pity in the readers. I am convinced that an interesting character, a well-written prose and an appealing plot are more than enough to transport a novel to the highest echelons of its genre, and this case is no exception. I found it really hard to put this novel down, which is why I find myself compelled to recommend it to those that enjoy good literature.	2005-03-16
US	45042957	R1APIAYI1G8NWU	0425191583	933649859	Imitation in Death	Books	4	4	6	N	N	"An excellent imitation"	A man dressed in fancy clothes, including a hat and a cap, shows up in one of the shady neighborhoods in New York in the year 2059, approaches a licensed companion and takes her to an alley to do his business. But his business is not what she is used to dealing with, instead she gets killed quickly and efficiently, and after that the man goes to work on her, taking one of her organs as a souvenir. He leaves an envelope behind addressed to Lieutenant Eve Dallas in which he acknowledges her ability to solve murders and challenges her to go head on with him. The note is signed Jack...can you guess where this is going?<br /><br />When a second victim is found, together with another note for Eve, the killer shows his versatility by changing his modus operandi. Now he is not imitating Jack the Riper anymore, but the Boston Strangler. Dallas is now facing a clever criminal, and her list of suspects include powerful men that can destroy her career if she misses a step. Of course, those who have been reading this series know that this will not intimidate Eve, and as expected she moves forward full force with her case.<br /><br />In the personal arena, Eve is dealing with Peabody, her aide, who is preparing the detective's exam and with the nervous wreck she currently is due to the situation. Peabody is also looking for a place to move in together with her love, the computer whiz McNabb. On the home front, Eve pretends to be in paradise due to Summerset being away, but it is clear that she misses Roarke's butler and best friend. And her husband, Roarke, is going through a confusing time after having discovered the truth about his mother's death.<br /><br />Once again Robb does a very good job in merging together the mystery with the development of the personal stories of the main characters. After a book like \\"Portrait in Death\\" which had highly emotional moments it is hard to keep up the intensity, and this shows a little bit in the current novel. Nevertheless, the result is better than good and there is no reason to pass this one up.ult is better than good and there is no reason to pass this one up.	2005-03-16
US	45042957	R3M87YZONTJOPY	0425189031	810324253	Portrait in Death	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Shocking developments regarding Roarke's past	In my mind, one of the keys to keep a series going as long as J.D. Robb has is to get the readers to identify with the characters at some level. That is why the author provides us with information about the main characters' past in every book, and continues developing their stories looking forward. We have seen that a good portion of the previous novels has been devoted to the past of our heroine, Lieutenant Eve Dallas. The abuse by her father and the shock of killing him when she was a kid in order to escape are present in every installment of this series. We do know some facts about Roarke's past too, an abusive father and a mother that abandoned him, but in this novel we are faced with a truth that shakes the foundation of the billionaire.<br /><br />Besides the personal stories, we are always presented with cleverly crafted mysteries, and even though in this book the case Eve is working on takes a secondary part, it fulfills its role regarding entertainment, action and suspense. Everything starts when Nadine Furst, a reporter for channel 75 and friend of Eve, receives an anonymous message that leads her to believe someone is dead. She calls Eve and the lieutenant quickly finds the body of a young girl inside a recycle bin. Nadine not only received a message, but also photos of the victim before and after being killed, with the latter one being staged. The victim was taking a course in imaging, so Eve and her aide Delia Peabody start going after the killer with this consideration in mind. As Robb has done in some of her previous books, we get to \\"read into the killer mind\\" in some of the passages and find out that this person believes that the victims will live forever through the images.<br /><br />This one is one of the best installments in the series so far because the developments in Roarke's personal story create an unparalleled eagerness on the reader. I know it did in my case, since I read this one in a single sitting. There are also other developments, like the relationship between Peabody and McNabb moving forward with them thinking about living together, and the fact that Mavis is pregnant. As the series progresses, I have found that it is harder and harder for the author to inform the reader of everything that has occurred in the past of this set of characters, so you will be missing important points if you have not read the previous books. For those that have been following Eve's adventures, I hope that you agree with me in that this book is without a doubt among the best by Robb., like the relationship between Peabody and McNabb moving forward with them thinking about living together, and the fact that Mavis is pregnant. As the series progresses, I have found that it is harder and harder for the author to inform the reader of everything that has occurred in the past of this set of characters, so you will be missing important points if you have not read the previous books. For those that have been following Eve's adventures, I hope that you agree with me in that this book is without a doubt among the best by Robb.	2005-03-10
US	45042957	ROZB9WKVQ0F0J	0375705856	963629300	Plainsong	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I am delighted with having discovered this author	As soon as I started reading this book I realized that the author has an immense ability for getting the reader involved in the story through his passionate descriptions of people and places, interesting dialogues and three-dimensional characters. The fact that the novel revolves around everyday events, and pays homage to its name in the sense that there are no big surprises or twisted plots, contributes to make this one of the best written books I have read in a long time.<br /><br />Tom Guthrie is a school teacher in Holt Colorado whose wife is secluded in bed at the time in which the story starts and who is abandoned by her shortly afterwards. He is left to live with his two kids, Ike and Bobby, and to try to find new interests in life. The two kids deliver newspapers in the morning before school and have to deal with a myriad of colorful characters, from the grumpy and mean Ralph to a lonely old woman looking for someone that cares.<br /><br />Victoria Roubideaux is an adolescent who is pregnant and is still in school. When her mother finds out about this, instead of offering support she kicks the girl out of her house. That is why Victoria ends up living with the McPheron brothers, two old men who own a ranch and take care of it themselves. The relationship that begins between the rough old men and the lost girl is narrated with great ability, and conveys a beautiful message.<br /><br />The author describes events like a cow giving birth with such a level of detail and accuracy that it reminded me when I saw this happen for the first time when living in Uruguay. People falling in love, having to deal with sick relatives, being pressured at work and facing death are the kinds of events that populate this novel. The final result is absolutely delightful, and I do not hesitate to recommend this book to anyone that enjoys good literature.	2005-03-09
US	45042957	R1UEQ4YOTLOLWH	042518630X	371295585	Purity in Death	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"Absolute purity achieved"	It is the summer of the year 2059 in New York and people are antsy due to the extreme heat, but for Louis K. Cogburn things get a little out of control when he uses a baseball bat to kill a neighbor and beat the girlfriend of the deceased. The life of the girl is saved only because a police officer was nearby and intervened, killing the aggressor. The officer is none other than Eve Dallas' prot&eacute;g&eacute; Trueheart, who instead of calling dispatch after the fact, calls the Lieutenant while he is still confused by the events. Now things get tricky, and Dallas has to step lightly to make sure that it does not look like cover up and that the termination is determined to be justifiable.<br /><br />Louie was a small-timer who sold illegals to kids in order to start them in the vice, but he had no history of prior violent acts. Also, there is a strange message on the screen of Louie's computer: Absolute Purity Achieved. Things get complicated when Halloway, a detective working on EDD (Electronic Detectives Division) goes berserk while examining the computer found at the scene. In his rampage he stuns McNabb and takes Captain Feeney as a hostage. It is clear, that the computer has something in it that drives people crazy and then kills them, so Eve has to find the Purity Seekers, a group of terrorist that is using technology to kill scum.<br /><br />J. D. Robb chooses a controversial issue for this novel, since the killers are going after people who deserve it; the innocents who have been harmed in the process are considered collateral damage by the group of avengers. The general public is quickly divided, and there are differences of opinion, even between spouses, in particular between Eve and her husband Roarke. As usual, the author creates a good balance between the topic at hand and the personal situations of the characters. In this case we find Peabody and McNabb having to deal with the aftermath of the injury he received, creating some highly emotional situations.<br /><br />Those that have been following the series - and as I did in some of my other reviews I am going to recommend that you read it in order - will find a character from the past reintroduced here. Jamie is a kid that Eve met when she was going after a satanic sect. After the kid lost his grandfather and his sister both Roarke and Eve took the role of his protectors. He is extremely skilled in electronics, and comes as a great help in the current situation. Robb has a natural ability for reintroducing characters in this fashion and get the reader to establish a rapport with them. That is one of the many reasons why this series is still going strong.<br />Those that have been following the series - and as I did in some of my other reviews I am going to recommend that you read it in order - will find a character from the past reintroduced here. Jamie is a kid that Eve met when she was going after a satanic sect. After the kid lost his grandfather and his sister both Roarke and Eve took the role of his protectors. He is extremely skilled in electronics, and comes as a great help in the current situation. Robb has a natural ability for reintroducing characters in this fashion and get the reader to establish a rapport with them. That is one of the many reasons why this series is still going strong.	2005-03-07
US	45042957	R1QM8FUEQKCWHF	0064408647	479846891	The Ersatz Elevator (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 6)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"Orphans were out then...now they are in"	Throughout the books in this series I have noticed a clear trend, which consists in the Baudelaire orphans having to face more complex and dangerous situations as the story progresses. In the previous book, Violet, Klaus and Sunny finally found friends in the presence of the two Quagmire triplets (yes, you read it right...two triplets!). But the joy did not last long, and soon the mischievous Count Olaf kidnapped the Quagmires. Now the orphans have to figure out a way to remain safe, but also have to try to rescue their friends in the process, and the only way to do this is to find Count Olaf and solve the mystery of VFD.<br /><br />After a journey that has taken them through their fair share of scary and woeful places, the Baudelaires are finally close to their home once more. The problem is that close is not close enough, and Dark Avenue, the street where their new guardians live, is really what the name suggests: a dreadful place. The neighborhood in which the Squalors live is in the dark because dark is in! In the same manner, the elevators are out, and the orphans, the pinstripe suits and the aqueous martinis are in. Even though the orphans are forced to climb the stairs to the apartment of Jerome and Esme Squalor in the dark, either to the forty-eighth or eighty-fourth floor, and all the nonsense they have to put up with about what is in and what is out, they are safe and sound and that is enough to give them some solace. However, they cannot help but feel some fear about what will happen when the orphans are not in anymore.<br /><br />Of course, Count Olaf will show up disguised as usual and bring danger to the world of the Baudelaires, and there will be excitement, happiness and sorrow. Violet will have to show a great deal of her inventing talents, Klaus his ability for research and Sunny the strength of her four teeth. Also as usual, the reader will get a fair amount of excellent entertainment, with Snicket's witty remarks and unusual technique for writing. One aspect of this technique is that when the book starts we are given a preview of what will come, through the use of dictionaries and words in quotes...but I am going to let you figure that one out on your own.this technique is that when the book starts we are given a preview of what will come, through the use of dictionaries and words in quotes...but I am going to let you figure that one out on your own.	2005-03-06
US	45042957	R67VANX316HA4	006105285X	309102008	Tumbling After	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"There will be betrayal; faith will be broken"	I am always looking for fantasy novels that \\"break the mold\\", since sometimes I get tired of the same story getting told over and over again, with different characters and in slightly different settings. Of course there are several authors out there that provide original works, like George R.R. Martin or Jennifer Fallon. Now I have to add Paul Witcover to the list. In this novel, he uses a very interesting idea that comes close to alternate fiction in the sense that we find ourselves asking the \\"what if?\\" question.<br /><br />Jack and Jill are twins that spend their summers in Middlesex Beach, Delaware. They share a special connection, and are aware of the feelings of each other without talking. At night, they get together with their uncle and sometimes other members of the family to play a role-playing game created by Uncle Jimmy. The game follows the style of Dungeons & Dragons and is called Mutes & Norms. On a different world, we meet Kestrel, who is an airie, one of the mutant races that, as the name suggests, shares some of its characteristics with the birds. The five races of mutes were the result of the Viral Wars, and since that moment they have been preparing themselves to confront the human race and destroy it (it is interesting to know that the humans are the bad guys here).<br /><br />Witcover does a very good job in alternating the action between Kestrel's and Jack's worlds, and after Jack is the victim of an accident on the beach that nearly cost him his life, something in him changes and we start seeing a connection between the two worlds. While Jack and his family play the games in our world, Kestrel and the rest of the mutes determine which path to follow on theirs according to the roll of the dice. Based on this premise, the story goes on and we find ourselves delving into a complicated plot that has not only parallel worlds, but that also leaps back and forth in time. That is why I recommend that those that like linear stories consider this aspect very seriously before deciding if they want to read the book.<br /><br />Even though the author uses several novel concepts, he also falls into some trite concepts and ideas. For example, Kestrel is part of a pentad, which is a group formed by one mute from each of the five races that go together on a journey. Of course, this idea has been used by many authors in different variations, but most notably by Tolkien when he forms the Fellowship of the Ring in his masterpiece \\"The Lord of the Rings\\". Overall, I would say that this is a very original work though, and one that has led me to search for the author's first novel and to be willing to read his next one too. In the final words just a warning, the author presents the topic of incest in the book, and even though this is done in a tactful way, some people may feel uncomfortable.very seriously before deciding if they want to read the book.<br /><br />Even though the author uses several novel concepts, he also falls into some trite concepts and ideas. For example, Kestrel is part of a pentad, which is a group formed by one mute from each of the five races that go together on a journey. Of course, this idea has been used by many authors in different variations, but most notably by Tolkien when he forms the Fellowship of the Ring in his masterpiece \\"The Lord of the Rings\\". Overall, I would say that this is a very original work though, and one that has led me to search for the author's first novel and to be willing to read his next one too. In the final words just a warning, the author presents the topic of incest in the book, and even though this is done in a tactful way, some people may feel uncomfortable.	2005-03-04
US	45042957	R13QQDYUSZRPUH	0425183971	731144234	Reunion in Death	Books	5	6	8	N	N	"She'd come back for Dallas. To wage war"	There is one thing that is true about J. D. Robb... she has a very special ability to engage the reader's attention. In this case, the novel starts with a bang, when we find out that Walter Pettibone has only a few hours left to live; after that we are hooked. Walter has a perfect life: he is celebrating his sixtieth birthday, is in good shape, and has a young wife, a great family and a successful business. He knows his wife is planning a surprise party, but he is not aware that he will be poisoned when making the toast.<br /><br />Eve Dallas is back in town after a \\"forced\\" two-week holiday involving Mexico and a private island. She was taking some time off after a tough and personally draining case. She is ready for some action, but things are very quiet upon her return. That is of course until she becomes the primary in the murder of Walter Pettibone. Before this happens Eve and her aide Peabody start investigating a cold case concerning the murder of a woman who was believed to be killed by her mysterious lover. Eve is ready to push Peabody in her career, so she decides to put her in charge of the cold case. Peabody is one of the most fascinating characters in this series, and in this installment she is very close to center stage, since not only she has to deal with her first case, but also with her evolving relationship with McNabb and with a surprise visit by her parents.<br /><br />One of the high points of this series is how the author keeps developing the personal stories of the main characters. Eve soon finds out that the killer is an antagonist from her past, Julianna Dunne, who Eve put in jail eight years ago. Julianna was a black widow and now she is coming after Eve and her husband Roarke. The investigation will take the Lieutenant to Dallas where we will witness some shocking scenes related to Eve's past when she visits the hotel in which she ended her relationship with her abusive father.<br /><br />I cannot praise this series high enough, so I just have to say that you should read it and judge for yourself. One word of advice: even though each book stands on its own, the fact that the personal stories play such an important role in the attractiveness of the series, leads me to recommend you to read the books in order.just have to say that you should read it and judge for yourself. One word of advice: even though each book stands on its own, the fact that the personal stories play such an important role in the attractiveness of the series, leads me to recommend you to read the books in order.  <br />	2005-03-03
US	45042957	R3P7E8DHCLOMI5	0064408639	488122738	The Austere Academy (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 5)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	"Memento Mori"	After their extremely unfortunate stay at a disastrous mill, the three Baudelaire siblings find themselves once more without a home. And now Mr. Poe, who is the person in charge of administering their estate until Violet becomes of age, has gotten the orphans admitted to Prufrock Preparatory School. If you have read the previous books in this series, you are aware that Count Olaf, an evil man that will stop at nothing to get their fortune, has constantly harassed the Baudelaires. One of the reasons why Mr. Poe chose the school to which they are headed is that it has an advance computer system that is supposed to keep the hideous count away.<br /><br />Upon their arrival at the school, Violet, Klaus and Sunny start oddities about the place, like the fact that all the buildings are shaped as gravestones and that the school motto is the one shown in the title of this review and means \\"Remember you will die\\". But these are mere nuisances that in a different situation would make the children laugh, since they had gone through much worse. Unluckily there are more important obstacles that the children have to face, like vice principal Nero, who is a very annoying and conceited man that spends almost all his time playing the violin...BADLY! He decides to send the siblings to live in the orphan shack and they also have to follow the capricious rules that govern the lives of students at Prufrock. The most important and annoying of these rules is that they have to attend daily a six-hour concert in which Nero performs with his screeching violin. The penalty for not doing that is steep: buy a bag of candy, give it to the vice principal and watch him eat it.<br /><br />There are several aspects of this series that I enjoy greatly, and I found all of them in this book, making it one of the best in the series so far. One of these is the cleverly depicted characters, which have characteristics that allow Snicket to create funny situations throughout the story. In this case, we find Nero, who Snicket uses in great fashion to make us laugh. The author also has a great ability for interjecting hilarious comments that are most of times nonsense, but that work well with the tone of the story nevertheless. These also provide a nice balance with the unfortunate situations the Baudelaires go through.<br /><br />Of course, Count Olaf shows his ugly face, with his continuous eyebrow, in this story, but we also get the chance to meet a couple of other very interesting characters. Like Carmelita Spats, who is the typical bully present in all schools in this planet. But the orphans also get the chance to meet other orphans, the Quagmire triplets. They only get to meet two of them though, since one of them is dead. The Quagmires also come from a wealthy family and quickly become that Baudelaires' best friends.<br /><br />The new characters provide the story with more depth, and as we have seen in other children's series, like Harry Potter, the plot is starting to be more complex and elaborate. Also, the suspense level is clearly increasing and it is hard to stop between one installment and the next. If you are following this series you will not be disappointed by this episode, and if you have not read any of the books yet, I recommend that you start with \\"The Bad Beginning\\", you will not be able to stop after that.find Nero, who Snicket uses in great fashion to make us laugh. The author also has a great ability for interjecting hilarious comments that are most of times nonsense, but that work well with the tone of the story nevertheless. These also provide a nice balance with the unfortunate situations the Baudelaires go through.  <br /> <br />Of course, Count Olaf shows his ugly face, with his continuous eyebrow, in this story, but we also get the chance to meet a couple of other very interesting characters. Like Carmelita Spats, who is the typical bully present in all schools in this planet. But the orphans also get the chance to meet other orphans, the Quagmire triplets. They only get to meet two of them though, since one of them is dead. The Quagmires also come from a wealthy family and quickly become that Baudelaires' best friends.  <br /> <br />The new characters provide the story with more depth, and as we have seen in other children's series, like Harry Potter, the plot is starting to be more complex and elaborate. Also, the suspense level is clearly increasing and it is hard to stop between one installment and the next. If you are following this series you will not be disappointed by this episode, and if you have not read any of the books yet, I recommend that you start with \\"The Bad Beginning\\", you will not be able to stop after that.	2005-02-19
US	45042957	R3F5G5G9Z6HPRA	0425181464	403003617	Seduction in Death	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"I really think he could be the one"	J.D. Robb has clearly found a winning formula: a futuristic setting, a strong female main character, a sexy and wealthy husband who allows the author to introduce various romantic scenes, cases that involve crafty and dangerous killers and an interesting set of supporting characters. On top of all that, the author has been able to find enough variation around this pattern to keep readers guessing in each novel as to which way the plot will turn and how the characters' stories will further develop.<br /><br />At the beginning of the book we find that Lieutenant Eve Dallas is once again going through a tough patch with her nightmares. These revolve around the abuse suffered in the hands of her own father and the events that finally led her to kill the monster. She usually has these nightmares when her husband, Roarke, is not there sleeping with her. In this case, he is in Ireland going through a difficult time himself, because a friend that was part of a ploy to commit a robbery against Roarke ended up getting killed by his associates when he changed his mind and switched sides. We usually do not find a troubled Roarke (at least not at the beginning of the story), so this is a welcomed break from the ordinary. On the other side however, we have been presented with Eve's nightmares multiple times, and even though I understand the need to give the new readers information about the past, this is starting to be a little repetitive. Of course, this is not a huge drawback to the quality of the book, but it would be nicer if the author finds another way to share this tidbit of information.<br /><br />Eve's problems become even worse when she is summoned to the scene of a death that at first sight looks like a suicide, but quickly proves to be a murder. Somebody seduced the woman in a chat room, then took her out and slipped drugs into her drink, had his way with her and finally tossed her out the window. Every time that Eve has to face a case involving rape, she has a tough time dealing with her own emotions, and this one is not different.<br /><br />One thing that the author has done well in the past has been to reintroduce characters from previous books. She did that with Charles Monroe, a licensed companion that Eve met during her investigation in the first book, and who was absent for a few installments only to come back and become part of the usual cast. Now, she reintroduces Dr. Dimatto, a woman that loves to help people in need, who we met in \\"Conspiracy in Death\\". She saw the victim plunge to the street because she lives in the same building. Dr. Dimatto is an interesting character that adds spice and humor to this novel; hopefully she will also keep showing up in following books in the series.<br /><br />Once more we get a fast-paced plot that results in late nights when you find yourself sleepy but saying \\"OK, just one more chapter\\". We also find a good character development and progress in the personal story of some of the main participants, Peabody and McNabb in particular. Peabody is Eve's aide and is still having a rocky relationship with the computer whiz, McNabb, who works for captain Feeney. The funny thing is that Eve and Roarke end up in the role that Eve desperately wanted to avoid, that of sentimental support for Peabody and McNabb respectively. All these factors make this another very good novel, and I am already looking forward to reading the next one in this series.h her own emotions, and this one is not different.     One thing that the author has done well in the past has been to reintroduce characters from previous books. She did that with Charles Monroe, a licensed companion that Eve met during her investigation in the first book, and who was absent for a few installments only to come back and become part of the usual cast. Now, she reintroduces Dr. Dimatto, a woman that loves to help people in need, who we met in \\"Conspiracy in Death\\". She saw the victim plunge to the street because she lives in the same building. Dr. Dimatto is an interesting character that adds spice and humor to this novel; hopefully she will also keep showing up in following books in the series.    Once more we get a fast-paced plot that results in late nights when you find yourself sleepy but saying \\"OK, just one more chapter\\". We also find a good character development and progress in the personal story of some of the main participants, Peabody and McNabb in particular. Peabody is Eve's aide and is still having a rocky relationship with the computer whiz, McNabb, who works for captain Feeney. The funny thing is that Eve and Roarke end up in the role that Eve desperately wanted to avoid, that of sentimental support for Peabody and McNabb respectively. All these factors make this another very good novel, and I am already looking forward to reading the next one in this series.	2005-02-14
US	45042957	RUFL5N4P86CYR	0375760903	271537012	The Coffee Trader: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"This devil's piss is going to make both our fortunes"	In his first novel, \\"A Conspiracy of Paper\\", Liss introduced an eclectic character that captured the affection of most readers. In this second novel, we do not get to read about the adventures of Ben Weaver once more. But those who read the first book will probably remember that Weaver's real name was Lienzo, and in \\"The Coffee Trader\\" Liss goes back to the year 1659 in Amsterdam to tell the story of Miguel Lienzo. He is a Portuguese Jew living in Holland and earning his life by trading in the quickly developing markets.<br /><br />Right from the start, the author demonstrates an outstanding ability for describing the people, places, attires and everyday situations in the Holland of the seventeenth century. This is an era of great economic development from this country with the rise of mercantilism, and fortunes can be made quickly. The problem is that it can also go the other way, and that is exactly what happened to Miguel, who lost most of his money when the sugar market collapsed. His only remaining hope is to embark on a venture that saves him from total bankruptcy, and the opportunity knocks on his door when Gertrude Damhuis approaches him with a proposition for entering the markets in the trade of a new and mostly unknown fruit: coffee.<br /><br />In my opinion there are three main elements that make this a great novel. First, the detailed way in which Liss describes the functioning of the markets at the time, since I find the topic to be appealing and I found the depictions extremely interesting. I do believe though that the author makes an effort in explaining the different aspects in such a way that there is no need to have previous knowledge of Economics in order to fully comprehend how the system works. Second, there are vivid descriptions on what it meant to be a Jew at that time. For example, Miguel had to leave Portugal due to the Inquisition, and even in Holland there is a Jewish council, Ma'amad, which enforces a set of strict rules and scrutinizes the behavior of the members of the community. One of theses rules creates a considerable difficulty for Miguel, since he is not allowed to carry business with gentiles, so he must hide his relationship with Gertrude. The third element is the great story, which is based on a complex set of relationships among the different characters and several twists and turns that will spice things up all the way to the end.<br /><br />Besides the main characters mentioned above, there are others that add to the story's attractiveness. One of them is Parido, who has been a sworn enemy of Miguel since two years ago they had a problem that ended with Parido retracting from offering his sister in marriage to Miguel. Now Parido seems to want to make amends and start from scratch, and is trying to use his friendship with Miguel's brother as a tool to achieve his goal. The question is: what is his real goal? We also get to meet Alferonda, a Jew that has been expelled by the Ma'amad and who is a sworn enemy of Parido. Alferonda gets an added level of significance because part of the narration is extracted directly from his diary.<br /><br />It has been a long time since I found a writer like Liss, who has an uncanny sense for mixing together all the different elements needed to make a great story. Also, being able to read a novel that is educative as well as enthralling is not something I get to experience that often. That is why I will keep looking forward to this author's work for as long as he maintains this level of quality in his novels.zes the behavior of the members of the community. One of theses rules creates a considerable difficulty for Miguel, since he is not allowed to carry business with gentiles, so he must hide his relationship with Gertrude. The third element is the great story, which is based on a complex set of relationships among the different characters and several twists and turns that will spice things up all the way to the end. <br /> <br />Besides the main characters mentioned above, there are others that add to the story's attractiveness. One of them is Parido, who has been a sworn enemy of Miguel since two years ago they had a problem that ended with Parido retracting from offering his sister in marriage to Miguel. Now Parido seems to want to make amends and start from scratch, and is trying to use his friendship with Miguel's brother as a tool to achieve his goal. The question is: what is his real goal? We also get to meet Alferonda, a Jew that has been expelled by the Ma'amad and who is a sworn enemy of Parido. Alferonda gets an added level of significance because part of the narration is extracted directly from his diary. <br /> <br />It has been a long time since I found a writer like Liss, who has an uncanny sense for mixing together all the different elements needed to make a great story. Also, being able to read a novel that is educative as well as enthralling is not something I get to experience that often. That is why I will keep looking forward to this author's work for as long as he maintains this level of quality in his novels.	2005-02-13
US	45042957	R29PLISRM2ZHMJ	0425178579	127101612	Betrayal in Death	Books	4	1	1	N	N	"This one's going to be difficult for both of us"	The quote above refers to the main two characters in this series, Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke, and it depicts well what has been a trend in this series lately. Roarke has become more and more involved in Eve's cases and has been the target of attacks by criminals in numerous occasions. Even though this does not bother me in extreme, I would like Robb to start mixing it up a little more. One of the things that I enjoy most about this series is the development of the characters throughout the different installments, but I do not think it is necessary for Roarke to be so involved in Eve's cases in order for him to be part of the plot of this series.<br /><br />When the book starts we find ourselves in the spring of 2059, in a world that looks pretty much like ours in several aspects but that also shows both pros and cons when compared to our society. There is still crime and drug abuse as we see nowadays. But there are considerable advances in medicine that make Eve's world better. And also significant difficulties in getting some products, like real coffee, that make it worse. But one thing that remains the same is that criminals never rest, and Eve is faced with a killer that strangled a maid in one of Roarke's hotels after raping her. On the same night in which the murder takes place, Roarke and Eve were in the hotel hosting a party for an actress who has decided to sell the possessions she accumulated throughout her career and start the Magda Lane Foundation of the Performing Arts.<br /><br />The killer did not care about being caught on the security cameras and is quickly identified as Sylvester Yost, an expensive gun for hire. When another of Roarke's employees is found dead, victim of the same man, it is clear that this is personal. Concurrently, the billionaire receives the surprising visit of an old friend from Ireland, Mick, who Roarke believed to be dead. Right from the start Eve suspects Mick is involved with the killings, but Roarke believes that even though he is a thief and a liar, Mick is not a murderer. It is very interesting to see who was right!<br /><br />As Robb has done in the previous novels, she provides us with further information on Eve's and Roarke's past, especially on the latter, since Mick is there to refresh the man's memory. There are also development in the relationship between Eve's aide, Peabody, and her \\"boyfriend\\", McNabb. Peabody has become one of my favorite characters in this series due to her sense of humor and candor. These elements together with the usual fast-paced action and high suspense level make this book another very good read.lieves that even though he is a thief and a liar, Mick is not a murderer. It is very interesting to see who was right! <br /> <br />As Robb has done in the previous novels, she provides us with further information on Eve's and Roarke's past, especially on the latter, since Mick is there to refresh the man's memory. There are also development in the relationship between Eve's aide, Peabody, and her \\"boyfriend\\", McNabb. Peabody has become one of my favorite characters in this series due to her sense of humor and candor. These elements together with the usual fast-paced action and high suspense level make this book another very good read.	2005-02-09
US	45042957	R1MTJ81VIJRUHH	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	"My life has been a web of secrets"	When I sat down to read this book I was surprised by the way it starts, because we find a man full of spite and pain that sets out to tell us the story of how he got to that point. This trait of starting out a story knowing that the end result will be one of despair and sorrow makes this trilogy different from any other fantasy series I have ever read. The narrator's memories go back to the time when he was six years old and his grandfather decided to take him away from his mother and let his progenitor, Prince Chivalry, take care of his illegitimate son. Even though the person telling us the story is an adult now, we are able to grasp the way he felt during his childhood as if the events were being told by a kid. This fact increases the level of candor and warmth of the story in the reader's eyes.<br /><br />When the Boy (written in caps since he did not have a name at this point of the story and that is how he was called) arrives at the castle, there is an instant surge of tension, since Lady Patience, Chivalry's wife, has not been able to bear any children that could serve as heirs to the throne. As most readers will realize, the characters' names have a lot to do with their personality, and with just that tiny bit of information we are able to understand the behavior of some of them in considerable depth. Another example of the accuracy of this technique is Prince Verity, who cutting to the chase and facing the issue straight one decides to entrust the care of the Boy to Burrich, the man in charge of the horses and hawks in the castle.<br /><br />This book sets up what promises to be an outstanding series, since we get a very good understanding of where the main character is coming from, what drives him and what his feelings are. To make the main character even more interesting, we find out early in the story that he has the Old Wit, which is the ability to share feelings with animals; ability that in the old times was punished with death. But besides having this skill, the Boy is trained in the arts of the assassin by request of the King, and gets involved in a complicated web of games of power, betrayal and death.<br /><br />The same day in which I finished this book I felt the urge to run to the bookstore and get the second installment. I hope the series delivers what it promises its readers through this first snippet; if it does I will undoubtedly rank it among the best, together with \\"A Song of ice and Fire\\". The other point I would like to make is that it is always uplifting to find a fantasy author that can really write, aside from having interesting ideas for the plots. I can confirm that Robin Hobb demonstrates that not only she has a prodigious imagination, but that she also is among the best in terms of her literary abilities.this skill, the Boy is trained in the arts of the assassin by request of the King, and gets involved in a complicated web of games of power, betrayal and death.  <br /> <br />The same day in which I finished this book I felt the urge to run to the bookstore and get the second installment. I hope the series delivers what it promises its readers through this first snippet; if it does I will undoubtedly rank it among the best, together with \\"A Song of ice and Fire\\". The other point I would like to make is that it is always uplifting to find a fantasy author that can really write, aside from having interesting ideas for the plots. I can confirm that Robin Hobb demonstrates that not only she has a prodigious imagination, but that she also is among the best in terms of her literary abilities.	2005-02-07
US	45042957	R194HIIO5L4OYD	0425176304	618962370	Judgment in Death	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Characters from the past spice things up!	Those that have been following this series probably noticed that with each book, we are getting cases that involve Eve's husband, Roarke, more and more. In this installment a cop, Taj, is murdered while working undercover in a strip club owned by no other than the billionaire. The murder was committed in a vicious manner, with the killer using a baseball bat to beat the victim to a pulp. When they summon Eve Dallas to the scene she becomes the primary investigator and has to face a myriad of delicate issues surrounding the case. Besides the fact that her husband is involved as the owner of the place serving as murder scene, she has to play internal politics with two policemen that work in the same division with the victim and who want her off the case.<br /><br />On another front, Eve has to deal with an old lover who now works for Internal Affairs and who wants her to close the case without making any fuss. Of course, this does not bode well with our detective who instead of stopping the investigation intensifies her efforts for getting at the truth. The fact that this old acquaintance is still in love with Eve does not simplify things in the least. The technique used by Robb of introducing elements from the main character's past gives in my opinion a very special charm to the series. In this case, there is another character that has is connected to Roarke's past and who has a bone to grind with the billionaire. Ricker is a dangerous man that is in trouble with the law after a drug bust jeopardized his freedom and who had dealings with Roarke before Eve's husband decided to \\"clean up\\". Eve's investigation leads her to Ricker, and right from the moment they lay eyes on each other these two characters clash and we know we are in for an intense battle between them.<br /><br />Nora Roberts, writing as Robb, comes out on the top once more with a dazzling novel set up in the year 2059, where cars fly, guns are banned, real coffee is a luxury and drones take care of most menial tasks. This time the author delivers a sophisticated plot with a very interesting character development and non stop action. But it does not stop there, since she is also doing a great job in developing secondary characters, like Eve's aide, Peabody, who is being seduced by McNabb a techno whiz that works for the department. They have been having a relationship for some time, and McNabb with the expert advice of Roarke wants to take it to the next level. Lately it seems to me that Robb can do no wrong, so I just have one thing to say: please keep them coming!ost menial tasks. This time the author delivers a sophisticated plot with a very interesting character development and non stop action. But it does not stop there, since she is also doing a great job in developing secondary characters, like Eve's aide, Peabody, who is being seduced by McNabb a techno whiz that works for the department. They have been having a relationship for some time, and McNabb with the expert advice of Roarke wants to take it to the next level. Lately it seems to me that Robb can do no wrong, so I just have one thing to say: please keep them coming!	2005-02-07
US	45042957	R35U8WC4R5C3YZ	0743444531	193566702	Hocus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"Hocus has news. We know where to find you"	This is the first book in the Irene Kelly series that does not include the main character's first name in the title. I read an interview with the author in which she explains that it took a lot of courage to change that pattern, due to the fear of people not recognizing her books anymore. She should not have worried, since the quality is still there and the series has become even a bigger success. \\"Hocus\\" starts a series of books by Jan Burke that have a one-word title, creating a contrast between this succinct title and the excellent ability the author has for describing different scenes and setting up engaging dialogues.<br /><br />Irene is a reporter for the Las Piernas News Express and is married to detective Frank Harriman. Since they met they have had a great relationship and they have only been married for a little while, but at the start of this novel things are rocky. Frank has just finished blowing a case wide open against two men that are supposed to be the ringleaders of a group named Hocus; a story has appeared in Irene's newspaper with information that should only be known by an insider. Even though Irene did not write the article, the department is putting pressure on Frank and blaming him for the leak. This in turn has created some strain in the couple, and to make matters worse there was the issue of an old girlfriend asking Frank to visit her.<br /><br />When the action starts Irene has not heard from Frank all day and thinks he is blowing off some steam, but when not even Frank's partner, Pete, knows of Irene's husband whereabouts, things start to turn south. Is Frank in trouble? Is he alive? Besides these questions, Irene has to deal with the recent discovery of a troublesome secret on Frank's family. When she learns soon enough that Frank has been kidnapped by Hocus and that their demands are very peculiar, she has to embark in a dangerous and complex investigation to save her husband.<br /><br />As has happened before, Burke delivers a high intensity thriller that does not lack an outstanding use of narration and three-dimensional characters. One of the important aspects for me in a mystery series is how well the author develops the characters from one book to the next, and I am happy to say that Jan Burke excels in this area. In \\"Hocus\\" we advance considerably in our knowledge of Frank's family and the relationship they have with Irene, and we also get a glimpse of several events from their past. The different aspects mentioned in this review make this book and the series overall a great choice if you are looking for a good mystery to plunge into.igh intensity thriller that does not lack an outstanding use of narration and three-dimensional characters. One of the important aspects for me in a mystery series is how well the author develops the characters from one book to the next, and I am happy to say that Jan Burke excels in this area. In \\"Hocus\\" we advance considerably in our knowledge of Frank's family and the relationship they have with Irene, and we also get a glimpse of several events from their past. The different aspects mentioned in this review make this book and the series overall a great choice if you are looking for a good mystery to plunge into.	2005-02-06
US	45042957	RDDA630Z8ET53	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	"Is this the second most powerful man in Washington?"	A considerable number of people where asking themselves the question show in the title of this review six years ago, with the subject in question being Joel Backman, the Broker. Nowadays he is in jail serving twenty years for treason, but his luck is about to change. The outgoing president, Arthur Morgan, is in the final hours of his mandate after suffering a catastrophic defeat in the recent elections. Now he is deciding which pardons to grant and is receiving pressure from the CIA to liberate the Broker. In the narration of these early events we get a first glimpse of what Grisham is capable of achieving, since he catches the reader's attention through the use of a couple witty jokes and the portrayal of the corruption associated with the process of granting pardons. In this case, the CIA is interested in releasing the Broker to see who kills him after they relocate him and provide the possible assassins with the information on his hideout.<br /><br />Upon his release, the Broker is transferred to Bologna, and Grisham spends a considerable amount of time describing the Italians, the life in this beautiful country, the luscious food, impressive scenery and seductive language. I perceived this as a break from the author's usual pattern of fast-paced action, when the level of suspense is high at all times. In this case, he focuses more on providing the reader with a comprehensive vision of the main character, allowing us to understand what drives the Broker's actions and how his previous experiences have changed the man. The interesting descriptions found in this part of the novel add a very particular flair to the story and help create a level of eagerness on the reader, who will be looking forward to the point in which the action will rush towards the end.<br /><br />The other important difference this novel presents compared to other works by Grisham has to do with the genre. The author is characterized for writing thrillers in a legal setting, but in this case we are in the presence of a book that belongs in the espionage category. Grisham tried to change genres before, for example with \\"Bleachers\\", where the main topic is sports, but in my opinion this attempt was not successful. But Grisham will not give up, and it seems to me that he is trying to prove to himself that he can write great books in other categories. In this case even though the quality is not excellent, as it was in \\"The Firm\\" or \\"A Time to Kill\\", Grisham delivers a powerful novel that will satisfy those that are looking for something more than nonstop action. The only reason why this novel is not excellent in my opinion is that I felt the ending was a little rushed. If this section of the book had been better developed, the experience would have been even more satisfying.ence of a book that belongs in the espionage category. Grisham tried to change genres before, for example with \\"Bleachers\\", where the main topic is sports, but in my opinion this attempt was not successful. But Grisham will not give up, and it seems to me that he is trying to prove to himself that he can write great books in other categories. In this case even though the quality is not excellent, as it was in \\"The Firm\\" or \\"A Time to Kill\\", Grisham delivers a powerful novel that will satisfy those that are looking for something more than nonstop action. The only reason why this novel is not excellent in my opinion is that I felt the ending was a little rushed. If this section of the book had been better developed, the experience would have been even more satisfying.	2005-02-04
US	45042957	R10CW3IAWRLOMT	0425173631	653412877	Witness in Death	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent twist added to Robb's usual pattern	This is the tenth book in the series and those who have been following Eve's cases and personal developments are used to Robb's writing style and usual story lines. The basic idea is relatively simple but original nevertheless: a futuristic world, a female cop that is tough as nails and who is married to a slick billionaire, a set of interesting secondary characters, and a collection of steamy scenes. But even if the idea is simple, Robb usually finds a twist here and there to keep the readers hooked and provide them with enough variety to prevent boredom.<br /><br />I particularly like the case Lieutenant Eve Dallas has to solve in this installment. One night Eve and Roarke are enjoying a night out in one of the billionaire's theatres. The production they are watching is called \\"Witness for the Prosecution\\" and includes a murder scene in the last act. The audience is dumbstruck though when the murder actually happens, with Areena Mansfield thrusting a real knife into Richard Draco's chest. Draco was a womanizer and there are plenty of people with a motive for changing the dummy knife for a real one and thus causing the \\"accident\\".<br /><br />The story gets really interesting when we find out that Nadine Furst, Eve's friend and reporter for Channel 75, contacts Eve to tell her about a meeting she had with the victim. She had been Draco's lover years ago and had not heard from him in the last six years, after Draco dumped her and broke her heart. But recently, he called Nadine back and they met for dinner the precise same night in which he was murdered. To make matters worse, a discussion and a fight followed the dinner pleasantries. Therefore, this case hits close to home for Dallas, since her friend is in danger of being accused and Eve was one of the witnesses when the murder took place.<br /><br />Besides the superior delivery in terms of the way Robb describes the action, the author provides the readers of this series with what I considered the most comprehensive description so far of the physical appearance of Eve and Roarke. This happens right at the beginning of the book, and I am sure that most details were mentioned before but not together as a bundle as we get them here. I also like the way in which the author is using more and more the technique of mixing fragments of what the killer is thinking at different times with the narration of the events that are taking place. In my opinion this provides an added level of interest due to the understanding we get of the killer's psyche.ehensive description so far of the physical appearance of Eve and Roarke. This happens right at the beginning of the book, and I am sure that most details were mentioned before but not together as a bundle as we get them here. I also like the way in which the author is using more and more the technique of mixing fragments of what the killer is thinking at different times with the narration of the events that are taking place. In my opinion this provides an added level of interest due to the understanding we get of the killer's psyche.  <br />	2005-01-19
US	45042957	R281XY2TONIRN3	0446532967	182046660	Double Homicide: Boston / Sante Fe	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The Kellermans can do much better than this	When I saw that a book that had stories by two of my favorite authors was coming out, I could not wait to get my hands on it and see if the synergy I assumed would be present in this work was actually there. To my disappointment the quality of the stories is not even at the same level of any of their individual work, let alone better. One of the stories, Boston, is clearly better than the other one, Santa Fe; but in my opinion it is not as good as either the Alex Delaware or the Rina Lazarus / Peter Decker novels.<br /><br />In Santa Fe, Darrel Two Moons and Steve Katz work nights in the Special Investigations unit. One freezing night they get a call that breaks the usual tedious pattern of domestic disturbances and abusive husbands. In this case it is a homicide, which took place in an art gallery. It looks like your usual investigation, but things are a little more complicated than that, since one of the officers had an altercation with the victim a little while ago. The authors try to make the story interesting by digging up the past of the two policemen. I believe this is an effort to make their characters more real to the readers, but while they succeed with this in their novels, they failed miserably in this case. The story is bland and does not have a lot of substance.<br /><br />In Boston, Dorothy is a single-mother policewoman who has two kids and is having trouble with her youngest one. One day when she was cleaning his room she found a gun in his backpack. But soon after she thinks she cannot handle any more, she gets the news about her oldest son being at the stage of a shooting in a club. The violence started after a confrontation between two basketball teams, and Dorothy's son plays in one of them. The victim is the start in her son's team, so Dorothy has to deal a lot of stuff. She has the help of Michael McCain, a policeman who has lost his charm and is not as appealing to women as he once was, is living in a dump and does not have much to look forward to. The pace of this story makes it a lot more interesting, so it is much better than Santa Fe. Even though I would not rate it as five stars, I would say it is a decent effort.<br /><br />In conclusion, one of the stories is good enough to read, but I would not recommend the other one to anybody. This is a disappointing work by a talented couple of authors who should be able to provide their readers with much better stories than these.forward to. The pace of this story makes it a lot more interesting, so it is much better than Santa Fe. Even though I would not rate it as five stars, I would say it is a decent effort. <br /> <br />In conclusion, one of the stories is good enough to read, but I would not recommend the other one to anybody. This is a disappointing work by a talented couple of authors who should be able to provide their readers with much better stories than these. <br />	2005-01-19
US	45042957	R18G9857RIUMO3	042517140X	776192522	Loyalty in Death	Books	5	24	25	N	N	We want more Delia Peabody!	Since J.D. Robb decided early in this series to split the Lieutenant Eve Dallas / Feeney team, introducing Peabody as Eve's new partner instead, we have been seeing this funny and appealing character (Delia Peabody) obtain more and more significance in the story line. In this case we witness a significant leap in Peabody's relevance with her having to face two different issues besides the current case in which she is involved assisting Eve. The first one is that McNabb (Feeney's current aide / partner) is finally accepting that he is in love with Peabody and has started to look at things in a different way. The other one is that she receives the visit of her brother Zeke, a free ager that is not totally adapted to the \\"normal\\" life in the city, but who has come to live with his sister while he works in a project for a married woman with whom he is falling in love.<br /><br />Of course, Eve Dallas continues to be the main character in the story, and in this book she is involved in a couple of different cases. One of them is clearly bothering her, because a woman killed her husband with a drill and then cut a deal with the district attorney, getting a considerably milder sentence than the one she deserves according to Eve's standards. The other case involves one of Eve's weasels, the Fixer, who was murdered in an explosion by a group called Cassandra. This organization is now blowing up other buildings in the city, all of which belong to Eve's husband, the billionaire Roarke.<br /><br />As with most of the other novels in the series, we find an action packed book that captures our attention right away and plunges us into a frantic race. Robb continues with her good job regarding character development, which as I mentioned focuses more than anything on Peabody and her relationship with McNabb. All of this is fairly balanced with the love scenes that are characteristic of the work of this author. Overall, this is an excellent read; I cannot wait to get to the next novel in this series.ovel in this series. <br />	2005-01-18
US	45042957	R31TAT6W9XLA7Q	0061020702	727722067	The Light Fantastic	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Come for a spin, it is a fun ride	For those of you that are not familiar with Discworld, let me give you a very brief introduction to this magnificent world, which has the shape of a disc, and stands on top of four elephants, which in turn are supported by a giant turtle named A'Thuin. Philosophers have asked themselves two questions throughout history: a) what is the turtle's sex? b) where is the turtle going? Pratchett assures us that we are very close to finding the answer to the second question.<br /><br />Now, I have to tell you, if you have not read \\"The Color of Magic\\", you should get it and start your journey there. This second book stands on its own, but it is considerably more enjoyable if you have the prior book as background. Besides, \\"The Light Fantastic\\" picks up the action exactly where \\"The Color of Magic\\" ended. Rincewind, the most inept magician in Discworld, and Twoflower, the extravagant tourist, are in a spaceship in the space surrounding the Disc. But soon enough Rincewind is expelled from the ship and starts to roam through the cosmos.<br /><br />Meanwhile, in the cellars of the Unseen University, the Octavo, a book left behind by the Creator of the Universe, is showing a disturbing behavior. The Octavo contained the eight most important spells (eight is a crucial number in Discworld) in the world until Rincewind had one of them accidentally transferred to into his head. Now, the eight spells are needed by Hogswatch night or Discworld will be destroyed. This places Rincewind in a very important role, but one that may be extremely dangerous too.<br /><br />Pratchett's humor is sublime; the author presents cleverly crafted situations that show dazzling parallelisms with our world. One of the funniest comments I found in this book has to do with Christopher Columbus and the reason why ships look as if they are disappearing over the edge of the world.  Another tool used by the author is choosing a known character and create a satire around it. In this case, we meet Cohen the Barbarian, who as you can imagine reminds us of Conan. Cohen is / was the greatest hero in Discworld, but now he is old and not even close to the prime of his life. You can certainly imagine how much fun Pratchett makes of this poor character. In some cases though, the satire is so complex that it is hard to notice all of the witty remarks.<br /><br />Another big plus for this series are the characters. Besides Cohen the Barbarian and Rincewind, we are delighted with the presence of Death. This character shows up mostly unannounced of course, loves to party and tries to remain stress free. On the other hand, we have Twoflower, who clashes constantly with every other inhabitant of Discworld, is really weird, and shows striking similarities to the people in our own world! My recommendation for those of you that like unscripted spontaneous fun is that you should seriously consider picking up this series. On the other hand, those that like linear narrations and tidily created worlds, may want to pass this one up, since as Pratchett himself says \\"you can't map a sense of humor\\".Barbarian, who as you can imagine reminds us of Conan. Cohen is / was the greatest hero in Discworld, but now he is old and not even close to the prime of his life. You can certainly imagine how much fun Pratchett makes of this poor character. In some cases though, the satire is so complex that it is hard to notice all of the witty remarks.  <br /> <br />Another big plus for this series are the characters. Besides Cohen the Barbarian and Rincewind, we are delighted with the presence of Death. This character shows up mostly unannounced of course, loves to party and tries to remain stress free. On the other hand, we have Twoflower, who clashes constantly with every other inhabitant of Discworld, is really weird, and shows striking similarities to the people in our own world! My recommendation for those of you that like unscripted spontaneous fun is that you should seriously consider picking up this series. On the other hand, those that like linear narrations and tidily created worlds, may want to pass this one up, since as Pratchett himself says \\"you can't map a sense of humor\\". <br />	2005-01-17
US	45042957	R2CQ1YXU9K674W	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	"All sorts of people are calling themselves kings"	The first book in this series set up a clear precedent in terms of Martin's writing style. This author likes to carry the reader through the action using the perspective of different characters, has no qualm in killing characters that would never die in most fantasy series, and enjoys shocking his audience with totally unforeseen events. In the end of \\"A Game of Thrones\\" we find out that dragons have just returned to this world, fact that left most readers eager to jump right into \\"A Clash of Kings\\" as soon as they could.<br /><br />Summer has ended after more than ten years, and everyone is getting ready for the long winter that is certainly coming. But there are other much more important things to consider, because after the death of King Robert, the Seven Kingdoms are divided once more. Joffrey was named King, but there are already people challenging his right to the throne on the basis that his mother, Cersei, has not borne any children by King Robert. All the kids are the result of Cersei's affair with her brother Jaime, and this is slowly becoming vox populi.<br /><br />Joffrey is being challenged from multiple fronts, Stannis and Renly, King Robert's brothers, are both seeking to rule in the Seven Kingdoms. Meanwhile, Robb Stark is consolidating his power in the North and is ready to fight. Of course there are other layers that complicate matters even more, since Robb holds Jaime Lannister as a prisoner, while Cersei controls the destiny of Robb's sister, Sansa. The girl is betrothed to Joffrey, but now she does not want to be his wife anymore and is being held against her will.<br /><br />Gendry, Robert's illegitimate child and real heir to the throne does not even know about his rights, and has been taken out of King's Landing by a company that is traveling towards the Wall to join the Black. Arya is also part of this group, traveling disguised as a boy and trying to escape unharmed from Cersei's reach. The only other character that I feel must be mentioned is Tyrion, Cersei's brother, and new Hand of the King. This misshapen dwarf is my favorite character so far because of his intelligence and the way in which he compensates for his physical disabilities with his crafty schemes. I also like the fact that it is almost impossible to determine whether he is using his ploys to go about his evil ways or to find justice for those that deserve it.<br /><br />This duality in most of the characters is one of the main factors that make this series so enjoyable. It is uplifting to find an author that has no fear from separating himself from the traditional good vs. bad pattern and presents the readers with more human characters, who possess both good and bad qualities. There is no question in my mind about the quality of this sequence: it is one of the best fantasy series out there. I understand that some people may find some of the language to be offensive and some of the scenes depicted by Martin to be too brutal. I am not bothered by this; but even those who are should know that there are so many outstanding features in this work, like the rich plot, the incredibly depth characters, the relentless action and the superior narration, that make this and the others novels in the series worth reading.ther, and new Hand of the King. This misshapen dwarf is my favorite character so far because of his intelligence and the way in which he compensates for his physical disabilities with his crafty schemes. I also like the fact that it is almost impossible to determine whether he is using his ploys to go about his evil ways or to find justice for those that deserve it.    This duality in most of the characters is one of the main factors that make this series so enjoyable. It is uplifting to find an author that has no fear from separating himself from the traditional good vs. bad pattern and presents the readers with more human characters, who possess both good and bad qualities. There is no question in my mind about the quality of this sequence: it is one of the best fantasy series out there. I understand that some people may find some of the language to be offensive and some of the scenes depicted by Martin to be too brutal. I am not bothered by this; but even those who are should know that there are so many outstanding features in this work, like the rich plot, the incredibly depth characters, the relentless action and the superior narration, that make this and the others novels in the series worth reading.	2005-01-13
US	45042957	R3D26GTBMAYT3A	0425168131	14193917	Conspiracy in Death	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"Now she pays the price"	This is one of my favorite series because it blends two of the genres I like most, fantasy / sci-fi and mystery. Nevertheless, I have found that in a couple of cases I feel that one of the books in the series is missing something. In this one the storyline was not particularly interesting to me, and I think that J.D. Robb did not progress as far as she could with the development of the different characters.<br /><br />Lieutenant Eve Dallas is summoned to a very unusual scene: a homeless man was murdered and his heart was removed with surgical precision. The killers, because the medical examiner determines it has to be more than one, used high quality tools and have to be experts in the surgical field. This creates a real problem for Eve, because it is hard to figure out a motive. Man-made organs are fully perfected and even though rich people prefer human organs, these have to be in prime condition and, needless to say, the ones from the victim weren't.<br /><br />Besides having to deal with finding the killers, Eve is faced with an uncooperative and outright confrontational female officer that will take part of Eve's energy away from the case and drive her close to desperation and doom. Also, when her investigation leads her to the Drake Center of Medicine, Eve realizes that she is very close to two of the members of the board: Dr. Charlotte Mira, her psychologist, and Roarke, her billionaire husband.<br /><br />J.D. Robb has a very special way of presenting what I interpret as her vision of a better future through some of the features of the world in which the series develops in the year 2059. For example, firearms are banned, there are licensed companions who can carry their business in privacy without getting in trouble with the law, and the Drake Center is named after the man who discovered the anticancer vaccine.<br /><br />As I mentioned, this is not one of the best books in the series, and it made me feel as if Robb was in some kind of schedule to release another novel for a certain date and had to go with the first idea that came to her mind. Maybe my slight disappointment is partly my fault, because I have been expecting five-star books in every time I start an Eve Dallas' mystery. This one falls a little short of the mark; but there is no way around it, those who have been following the series have to read it and hope that the next novel will get better.other novel for a certain date and had to go with the first idea that came to her mind. Maybe my slight disappointment is partly my fault, because I have been expecting five-star books in every time I start an Eve Dallas' mystery. This one falls a little short of the mark; but there is no way around it, those who have been following the series have to read it and hope that the next novel will get better.	2005-01-11
US	45042957	R2BPDL3KXBQPBC	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	"Where is Count Olaf?"	I was pleasantly surprised when I found out that the rhythm of the story changed compared to previous works. The monotony seen before was one of my main criticisms for the last book in the series, \\"The Wide Window\\". Now, deep into the story we find ourselves in a new situation, since everyone will be asking the question posed in the title of this miserable review, even Snicket himself.<br /><br />After the horrible events described in \\"The Wide Window\\", the Baudelaire orphans, Violet, Klaus and Sony, find themselves traveling with Mr. Poe towards their next destination / home / workplace / place of torture / unlucky spot. The town to which they arrive is called Paltryville, and right away we receive Snicket's warning about Count Olaf showing up in another disguise. This creates an anticipation that is prolonged longer than usual, creating an avid desire in the reader to get to the climax of this story as quickly as possible.<br /><br />The new caretaker of the siblings owns the Lucky Smell lumber mill, a horrid place that has a sign made out of chewed-up gum, pays the employees with coupons, feeds them gum for lunch and is located in a town that has a creepy building in the shape of an eye. As if all this was not enough, the Baudelaire orphans find out upon their arrival that they are expected to work in the mill. That is the deal that Sir, their new guardian, proposes in exchange for protecting them from the evil Count Olaf.<br /><br />I found particularly interesting the set of characters presented in this work. Phil is a mill worker that sees life through very optimistic eyes. Foreman Flacutono is a ruthless giant in charge of the workers and who wakes them every morning by banging pots together; this is considerably worse than waking up to the sound of music and having coffee ready waiting for you. Finally, Sir is a very short man who has a cloud of smoke constantly surrounding his face and who is extremely stingy, to say the least.<br /><br />The author keeps showing his extremely sharp wit, which produces innumerable humorous situations and interesting conversations. Of course, none of these lead to a good chuckle in the reader, since the siblings keep going through unhappy times. All the elements mentioned create a notable book that will be very difficult to best. Those of you that can stand unhappiness should not pass up the opportunity to read it!hor keeps showing his extremely sharp wit, which produces innumerable humorous situations and interesting conversations. Of course, none of these lead to a good chuckle in the reader, since the siblings keep going through unhappy times. All the elements mentioned create a notable book that will be very difficult to best. Those of you that can stand unhappiness should not pass up the opportunity to read it! <br />	2005-01-08
US	45042957	R29S2JP90WIIL6	0451212479	561216540	Bait and Switch	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"I want you to seduce my wife"	Wolfgang Schmitt is very disappointed with his job in a marketing company; he is a former model who attracts ladies by the thousands, but who has just been dumped by the love of his life. After a meeting with a client goes south, he is just about ready to quit. But that is exactly when he is faced with an astounding revelation; his assistant is working in the company just to determine if he is a good candidate for a very important mission.<br /><br />Wolfgang does not have a lot to lose, so he jumps on a private plane that Nelson Scott, the real employer of Wolfgang's assistant, sends for him and starts an exciting journey. Nelson is separated from a wife that likes to sleep around and who will get a monthly alimony in the amount of $3 million for the rest of her life. Unless, of course, Nelson can provide proof of her adultery, in which case she gets nada. That is why Wolfgang receives an offer of one million dollars just for trying to seduce Kelly Scott; amount that will increase fourfold if he succeeds.<br /><br />Brooks returns to the quality level he delivered in \\"Darkness Bound\\", providing the readers with an exciting plot full of twists and turns and that has a fair share of spicy moments too. Those of you who were somewhat disappointed with his second book, \\"Pressure Points\\", as I was, should give this author another opportunity. I am surely glad I did. Now I must go back and check \\"Serpent's Dance\\", which I hope is another page-turner that will keep me up all night as \\"Bait and Switch\\" did.	2005-01-06
US	45042957	R1SD4W7WL0D38R	1930928947	687522529	High Rage	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	&quot;She wondered why a mouse like Hadrian ruled here...	instead of a wolf like Scarface&quot;. The quote encompasses the three main characters in this novel; and what a complex and intriguing group of characters they are. Scarface is an assassin that, when the book starts, is on a mission involving the killing of the Abrasan envoy and incrimination of a Ghiblin lord. The objective is to end the frail peace that has been reigning between these two nations. Scarface is also a magus that can deliver severe damage through the use of his scepter. On his way back to his clan, he meets a group of travelers led by Mendarian, the woman who wonders in the aforementioned quote, and he is instantly attracted to her. After a confrontation over the scepter they go their separate ways, but with the intention of seeing each other again. Scarface then returns to his clan, which is led by Hadrian, an enigmatic leader, feared by everyone but who usually acts in a civilized and polite manner. His behavior reminds me of an old saying in chess: &quot;the threat is more powerful than the execution&quot;.<br />From the point in which Scarface and Mendarian split, we are guided through different parts of this fantasy world, in which we will see magic, games of power, and a clever and dangerous set of ploys and counter ploys. The amount games of politics involved in the story reminds me of one of my favorite fantasy books, Dune. I enjoyed greatly that Burk keeps the reader on his toes, with unpredictable characters, that can betray each other any second. I also like the fact that there is no clearly good nor bad characters in the story, but instead we find that all of them have flaws and virtues. In my opinion, this makes the book a lot more interesting.<br />Those of you who are looking for a break from the usual fantasy, in which there is a hero that battles the forces of evil at a great disadvantage and who finally conquers the love of the princess, will find in this novel a refreshing change. The only areas to improve are in what has to do with the description of the world in which the events occur. In some cases I found it hard to understand the relationships among the different nations and clans, and in some other cases I think that a map would have helped in imagining the characters' travels better. Overall, this is a highly recommended read, and I will be looking forward to the next work by this author.th the description of the world in which the events occur. In some cases I found it hard to understand the relationships among the different nations and clans, and in some other cases I think that a map would have helped in imagining the characters' travels better. Overall, this is a highly recommended read, and I will be looking forward to the next work by this author.	2005-01-06
US	45042957	R1WSIFWDQJFFCC	1880418592	782981224	Song of Susannah (The Dark Tower, Book 6)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Which beam will break next?	Roland and his ka-tet continue their journey towards the Dark Tower after their confrontation with the Wolves at Calla Bryn Sturgis. But the group is not complete anymore, since Susannah disappeared before the fighting was done. And she has taken with her Black Thirteen, a dangerous object that allows traveling between different worlds. Susannah left because she has been carrying a creature in her womb, and she is being controlled by Mia, the mother of the \\"baby\\" and one of Susannah's alter egos. Those that have read the whole series, and if you have not you should do so before reading this book, will remember that when Susannah was drawn towards the ka-tet, she was controlled by Detta Walker. Detta also makes an appearance and we can see a battle of three different personalities within the same person.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Eddie is desperate to follow her lover and release her from her \\"prison\\", and to do this he needs the assistance of the rest of the members of the group, including Pere Callahan. They have to hurry though, because one of the beams holding the Tower has just broken, and only two remain, one of them being the one in which the ka-tet is now: Beam of the Bear. As the journey towards their gold progresses, the connection between the members of the ka-tet becomes stronger and stronger. But on top of that they all have to deal with their own issues. For example, Pere Callahan is struck dumb by the fact that his life is accurately depicted in a novel called Salem's Lot, written by a not so well-known author named Stephen King.<br /><br />Between the group trying to save Susannah, Mia trying to get her chap born, and the necessity of the ka-tet to buy the lot in which the rose was located, which is now a building called Black Tower, we are in the presence of an action-packed book. This differs considerably from the previous novel in the series, which had some parts that were fast-paced, but which also spent a considerable amount of time going back to the past of the main characters and setting up a basis for what was to come.<br /><br />Several characters from the previous books show up again, like Enrico Balazar, and sometimes it is hard to remember everything that we know about them from previous books due to the amount of time that has elapsed between their publication. I think that those people who love this series like I do, should go back to the beginning and read it as a whole again. I am sure it will enhance our understanding of everything that happened and will allow us to enjoy this work even more.<br /><br />Even though this book is considerably shorter than the latest installments, I think that the quality remains at an exceptionally high level. This is truly King at his best, the same one you can find in \\"Misery\\", \\"The Shinning\\", \\"It\\" and \\"Pet Sematary\\". The only thing left to say is that Stephen King delivers a huge surprise in this book, and I am sure that some people will get angry at this, but I enjoyed it and thought it was a very clever idea. I believe that those who appreciate King's style will like it too.in characters and setting up a basis for what was to come.     Several characters from the previous books show up again, like Enrico Balazar, and sometimes it is hard to remember everything that we know about them from previous books due to the amount of time that has elapsed between their publication. I think that those people who love this series like I do, should go back to the beginning and read it as a whole again. I am sure it will enhance our understanding of everything that happened and will allow us to enjoy this work even more.     Even though this book is considerably shorter than the latest installments, I think that the quality remains at an exceptionally high level. This is truly King at his best, the same one you can find in \\"Misery\\", \\"The Shinning\\", \\"It\\" and \\"Pet Sematary\\". The only thing left to say is that Stephen King delivers a huge surprise in this book, and I am sure that some people will get angry at this, but I enjoyed it and thought it was a very clever idea. I believe that those who appreciate King's style will like it too.	2004-12-30
US	45042957	RWFIL1EONSJKX	0375508554	32798703	A Spectacle of Corruption: A Novel	Books	5	11	12	N	N	"No man can afford to remain neutral"	In his previous two novels David Liss dealt with themes revolving around finance in a historical setting. \\"A Conspiracy of Paper\\" tells the story of Ben Weaver and his search for his father's murderer. Ben soon finds that the reason behind the crime is connected to a scam in the financial markets. But Weaver's real family name is Lienzo, and in \\"The Coffee Trader\\" Liss goes back in time to narrate the story of Miguel Lienzo, on of Ben's predecessors who amassed his fortune through the trade of futures in the Dutch market. In this novel we find again the character of Ben Weaver, with the focus of the novel changing to a political setting.<br /><br />Ben is accused of killing Walter Yate, crime of which he is innocent, but he finds himself going to trial anyway. It is almost funny that someone who killed others in the course of his business before and who escaped the consequences unscathed, finds himself in the \\"hot seat\\" when he truly is not guilty. Those that have read the previous book featuring Weaver will surely remember Jonathan Wild, one of the most colorful and intriguing characters in that novel. Wild is a notorious criminal and a sort of \\"godfather\\" who has people stealing for him and then he charges the owners of the goods for their return. Wild is also Ben's adversary, since they practice similar businesses, with Ben taking the honest route. That is why when Wild is called as a witness in Weaver's trial, we are expecting to see a clear case of perjury and Ben hanging as a result. But beware, Liss likes to surprise his readers!<br /><br />The trial presents some very interesting aspects, dealing with witnesses that lie and recant in the spot, a judge that is focused on seeing Ben convicted and a jury that allows to be badgered into a verdict. This is how Ben ends up in death row and his only way out is to escape prison after a lovely lady he has never seen in his life provides him the means to do so. Now, he is determined to find the real culprit and to clean his name. In order to achieve that, he has to embark in a very dangerous adventure that will situate him against some clever adversaries that know how to play the game of politics.<br /><br />There are two aspects that have been present throughout all three books by Liss. One of them is showing how unfair the treatment of Jews was in the different time periods and places selected as settings for the stories. In this case, in the eighteenth century in England, we find evidence of such treatment on various occasions. The most blatant one is during sentencing, when the judge tells Ben: \\"I can see no reason for leniency, not when there are so many Jews in this city\\". The other aspect is the importance of family, which of course is not disconnected from the first one at all, since the Jewish religion pays the utmost attention to family. In the present novel, we find Ben suffering over Miriam's decision of rejecting his marriage proposal and marry another man instead. Miriam is the widow of Ben's cousin, and not only did she marry a Tory candidate, but she had to convert to the Protestant religion in order to do so. As a result, she is not allowed to communicate with Ben anymore.<br /><br />This novel is a novel with interesting characters, a well-developed plot and detailed and realistic descriptions of the settings in which the story unravels. This allows the reader that is not familiar with this historic period to get a very good idea about how life was at the time and also understand the motivation behind the different political parties. What makes this book even more remarkable is the fact that the talents displayed by Liss do not stop there, since the author shows a clear knack for suspense and mystery. All these points make this a very hard novel to ignore.o clean his name. In order to achieve that, he has to embark in a very dangerous adventure that will situate him against some clever adversaries that know how to play the game of politics. <br /> <br />There are two aspects that have been present throughout all three books by Liss. One of them is showing how unfair the treatment of Jews was in the different time periods and places selected as settings for the stories. In this case, in the eighteenth century in England, we find evidence of such treatment on various occasions. The most blatant one is during sentencing, when the judge tells Ben: \\"I can see no reason for leniency, not when there are so many Jews in this city\\". The other aspect is the importance of family, which of course is not disconnected from the first one at all, since the Jewish religion pays the utmost attention to family. In the present novel, we find Ben suffering over Miriam's decision of rejecting his marriage proposal and marry another man instead. Miriam is the widow of Ben's cousin, and not only did she marry a Tory candidate, but she had to convert to the Protestant religion in order to do so. As a result, she is not allowed to communicate with Ben anymore. <br /> <br />This novel is a novel with interesting characters, a well-developed plot and detailed and realistic descriptions of the settings in which the story unravels. This allows the reader that is not familiar with this historic period to get a very good idea about how life was at the time and also understand the motivation behind the different political parties. What makes this book even more remarkable is the fact that the talents displayed by Liss do not stop there, since the author shows a clear knack for suspense and mystery. All these points make this a very hard novel to ignore. <br />	2004-12-29
US	45042957	R3BWW5761ARRXE	0316935492	911796667	Heart of the Hunter: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	N	"Once the cycle began it couldn't be stopped..."	Thobela Mpayipheli is an African giant, ex-spy, who is now living with his fianc&eacute; and her son in a small town in South Africa, called Guguletu. He has vowed never to go back to his old life, but his peaceful existence is broken when Monica Kleintjes, the daughter of one of his dear friends from the past, asks for his help. Johnny Kleintjes has been kidnapped and will only be released upon the delivery of a disk containing information that is crucial to national security. Kleintjes gathered this information when working in an integration project in an effort to document the real history relating to the events that took place in the dark era of the Apartheid.<br /><br />Thobela, or Tiny as his friends call him, is a mysterious man that shows great kindness at moments, and cold-blooded violence at others. In a world when everyone wants to see things white or black, he presents a solid gray. This can be clearly appreciated by the reaction of the people as he goes on his quest, mounted on a powerful motorbike. Some see him as a hero, while others regard him as a dangerous man who cannot be good because he used to work as a \\"collector\\" for a drug baron. There is one reporter for the Cape Times, Allison Healy, who tries to answer the question: Is Tiny good or bad? This will provide us with valuable insight regarding the main character, but: can the question be answered with certainty?<br /><br />One would thing that helping a friend that has been kidnapped would be hard enough, but Thobela has other problems too. Janina Metz, a high ranked officer in one of the intelligence agencies, had a wire that allowed her to listen to the conversation between the kidnappers and Monica. Therefore, she activated a special forces group led by a violent and vicious captain named Mazibuko. The idea is to prevent Tiny from delivering the information to the kidnappers. Thus, he is drawn into a mission filled with dangers and violence; a mission in which he will be faced with a worthy opponent in the relentless captain Mazibuko.<br /><br />The exotic setting, the cleverly crafted plot, the exciting action, and the rich and complex main character, make this a novel that has it all. Deon Meyer has created a real masterpiece that is not even one notch below the work of some great authors in the genre, like John le Carr&eacute;. I will be eagerly looking forward to this Meyer's new book!pponent in the relentless captain Mazibuko. <br /> <br />The exotic setting, the cleverly crafted plot, the exciting action, and the rich and complex main character, make this a novel that has it all. Deon Meyer has created a real masterpiece that is not even one notch below the work of some great authors in the genre, like John le Carr. I will be eagerly looking forward to this Meyer's new book! <br />	2004-12-29
US	45042957	R2F8SXC5R1XYNL	0399151850	495037638	The Queen of the South (Perez-Reverte, Arturo)	Books	5	40	44	N	N	"This is not happening to me, she thought"	I remember reading an article in the New York Times a little while ago in which a writer said that he decided whether or not to read a book based on the first sentence. He would continue reading only if he was hooked by this small sample. When I started reading this novel I thought to myself that Perez-Reverte must be of similar beliefs. The start of this work is so strong that it is hard to put it down after reading its first sentence, \\"The telephone rang, and she knew she was going to die\\".<br /><br />The phone call Teresa Mendoza receives is a signal that Guero Davila, her lover, is dead and that she needs to run away. Thus starts a spectacular adventure full of twists and turns that will have the reader looking forward to the next development every step of the way. Guero was a drug dealer that was betraying his bosses, so when they discovered him, he was murdered and they proceeded to go after Teresa.<br /><br />An anonymous writer who is doing research and writing a book on the life of this mysterious woman tells part of the story. As usual, Perez-Reverte goes back and forth in the story, mixing elements from different time periods relating to the main character's life. In this case, we soon learn that the writer meets Teresa twelve years after Guero's death when she is involved in a difficult situation with the Federales in Culiacan, Mexico. Therefore, the author is letting us know that the ending may be in line with his usual pattern: bitter-sweet.<br /><br />After that interlude, Perez-Reverte goes back to the moment in which Teresa is forced to run and we are taken along in a magnificent roller-coaster ride that will show us how this character changes and evolves, fighting with her destiny and trying to survive. The author's great writing skills help in making us feel as if we were right in the middle of the action, and we find ourselves rooting for a woman that ends up involved in the world of drugs. Perez-Reverte also does a very good job in describing settings and people in places like Mexico and the US, immersing the reader in the ambiance of these locations.<br /><br />As to our main character, one thing is certain, Teresa learned her lesson from her experience with Guero, and now she decides to take control of her life: \\"She was never going to wait for anybody again, watching telenovelas in some house in some city somewhere\\". This is the essence behind this main character, and whether you like the book or not will depend on how much you like Teresa, a strong and focused woman, who takes life as it was dealt to her and who has a significant amount of inner conflicts. As far as I am concerned, this character has enough interest by itself so as to make this one of the best books of 2004.laces like Mexico and the US, immersing the reader in the ambiance of these locations.     As to our main character, one thing is certain, Teresa learned her lesson from her experience with Guero, and now she decides to take control of her life: \\"She was never going to wait for anybody again, watching telenovelas in some house in some city somewhere\\". This is the essence behind this main character, and whether you like the book or not will depend on how much you like Teresa, a strong and focused woman, who takes life as it was dealt to her and who has a significant amount of inner conflicts. As far as I am concerned, this character has enough interest by itself so as to make this one of the best books of 2004.	2004-12-28
US	45042957	R2KAC1FIIYG6YQ	0425163717	695515166	Holiday in Death	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Perfect read for Christmas	The Holiday Season is not all joy and celebration because in the year 2058 a woman is found murdered and left with a figurine showing \\"partridge in a pear tree\\" (The Twelve Days of Christmas). Lieutenant Eve Dallas is quickly summoned to the scene and becomes the primary investigator in the case. The killer's modus operandi is to knock at the victim's door dressed up in a Santa's costume and kill them after getting access to their house. Eve quickly finds a connection to a dating agency called Personally Yours that will lead to some very interesting developments.<br /><br />Confirmation comes when a second victim is found; she has two turtle doves in her hair and has also requested the services of Personally Yours. And as the investigation progresses, we find Charles Monroe, a character who we met in the first book in the series, \\"Naked in Death\\", and who has also been using the services of the dating agency even though he is a licensed companion. I think Robb made an excellent decision in reintroducing Charles in the series, since he brings no small amount of smart comments and interesting personal interactions with Eve and Peabody.<br /><br />Peabody, Eve's aide, is having the time of her life, because the search for the killer is taking the duo around town where they have a chance to visit shops and mingle in the crowd of holiday shoppers. Eve, on the other hand, hates the experience and besides being worried about finding a dangerous killer, has to deal with her personal issues regarding Christmas. She even has to figure out what to buy for her friends and husband, the billionaire Roarke. Finding a present for a man that has everything is no small task!<br /><br />This series is moving ahead full steam, with interesting cases and characters that are becoming more complex and fascinating. I think the latter aspect is what I enjoy most about this series, since Robb spends a fair amount of time on the relationship between Eve and Roarke, Eve and Peabody, etc. For those of you that have not read other books in this series, I am fully confident that this book stands on its own, but you will be missing a considerable part of the appeal found in these books due to the relationships among the main characters. My recommendation is that you start with the first book in the series, and I guarantee that you will be hooked after that.For those of you that have not read other books in this series, I am fully confident that this book stands on its own, but you will be missing a considerable part of the appeal found in these books due to the relationships among the main characters. My recommendation is that you start with the first book in the series, and I guarantee that you will be hooked after that. <br />	2004-12-21
US	45042957	R2GPGHCYMNGOCT	0312990456	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	"Sometimes they don't want to be found"	The first books in this series hooks the reader right from the start, with a light reading, filled with funny situations and a superbly crafted main character. Stephanie Plum is a girl who does not pay attention to other people's advice and who likes to take matters into her own hands. For example, a few years ago, after Joe Morelli charmed her pants off of her and then did not bother to call her back, she took revenge by running him over with her car and breaking his leg.<br /><br />Stephanie was doing great in life, living the way she wanted and trying to stay as independent as possible from her parents, until the unexpected happened. She was laid off from her job, got behind in her payments and started being chased by debt collectors looking to repossess her goods, i.e. car. In dire straits for money Stephanie follows her mother advice and goes to see her relative Vinnie to try to get a job as a secretary in his bonding company.<br /><br />However, when she gets there the position is already filled, and she finds about an opportunity that pays much better but also involves a slightly higher risk: chasing after people who skipped bail. That is how she gets involved in pursuing the very man she hates, Joe Morelli, who is now a cop and has jumped bail after being accused of killing an unarmed man without justification.<br /><br />Evanovich delivers a fresh character that tells her story with no lack of witty comments and who is constantly revealing all kinds of interesting situations. Stephanie's remarks remind me of another of my favorite female characters, Anita Blake, the vampire executioner in the Laurell Hamilton series. The aspects strictly related to the mystery side are pretty good too, making this novel a fine read and leaving the reader with an urge to keep going forward with the series.	2004-12-17
US	45042957	R1UVCFRCTTE4JS	0316710598	224255669	London Bridges (Alex Cross Novel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	"What does the Wolf have in mind for him?"	I am one of the readers that was highly pleased with \\"The Big Bad Wolf\\" and had no issues with the book ending without any resolution. I have read all the books in this series and could wait for the next installment without a problem. When I started reading \\"London Bridges\\" and realized that Geoffrey Shafer, the killer known as the weasel (\\"Pop Goes the Weasel\\") was back too, I could not wait to read more about what was going to happen.<br /><br />Patterson usually grabs the reader's attention in the first few pages and does not let go until the end, embarking us in a fast and exciting ride. I am sorry to say that even though this is true for most of this book, the author lost my interest at the end with an overly complicated plot and a rushed ending. I have been a big Patterson fan for a long time, but in the last couple of years I have been getting a mixture of great and average books by this author. I hope I start seeing more of the former soon, before I lose my faith completely.<br /><br />The Wolf is back in action; he has found the Weasel, who was killing women in Brazil, and \\"offered\\" him a new job. The first mission involves blowing up a small town in Nevada after informing the \\"army\\" of the intended attack. Of course this is just a test, soon other small towns in Europe suffer the same attacks but without a warning allowing to rescue the people. The problem is escalating, and Alex Cross is quickly involved in the, since now the Wolf is threatening to blow up four of the world's largest cities.<br /><br />Alex is still having doubts about his participation in law enforcement; he is in the middle of a legal battle with his ex-girlfriend, Christine, for the custody of their son. Alex has only seen little Alex once in the last four months because Christine is living in Seattle. He also has a long distance relationship with his current girlfriend, Jamilla Hughes, who works for the San Francisco Police Department. The return of the Weasel makes this case very special for Alex Cross because the killer actions were one of the main reasons for him losing Christine. The Weasel kidnapped her when Christine and Alex were engaged and placed her in Jamaica, where she gave birth to little Alex and was later rescued by Cross and Sampson, his partner at the time.<br /><br />In this age, when terrorism is constantly on the news, it is not surprising that Patterson jumps right into the topic. And he does a good job until he starts twisting the plot too much and disappoints everyone with a low quality ending. The book is written in the usual Patterson style, with short sentences, lots of action and very brief and to the point chapters. Therefore, you can read it in one sitting without any problems. Finally, I would like to point out that it was disappointing to find so little development of Alex's personal story. His relationship with family members, friends and lovers is touched upon very lightly. As a reader of the whole series I expected more activity regarding these aspects, but was disappointed once more.cial for Alex Cross because the killer actions were one of the main reasons for him losing Christine. The Weasel kidnapped her when Christine and Alex were engaged and placed her in Jamaica, where she gave birth to little Alex and was later rescued by Cross and Sampson, his partner at the time.<br /><br />In this age, when terrorism is constantly on the news, it is not surprising that Patterson jumps right into the topic. And he does a good job until he starts twisting the plot too much and disappoints everyone with a low quality ending. The book is written in the usual Patterson style, with short sentences, lots of action and very brief and to the point chapters. Therefore, you can read it in one sitting without any problems. Finally, I would like to point out that it was disappointing to find so little development of Alex's personal story. His relationship with family members, friends and lovers is touched upon very lightly. As a reader of the whole series I expected more activity regarding these aspects, but was disappointed once more.	2004-12-07
US	45042957	R2OUM0DBP7NC30	0064407683	320801559	The Wide Window (A Series of Unfortunate Events)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Still very good but Snicket should alter his style more	A Series of Unfortunate Events is one of the best series for kids I have read, and I know that several adults like me enjoy it immensely. Snicket shows a great ability for amusing the reader through funny situations, but most of all through his narrative style. Of course, most of the time, the reader is not laughing, since the Baudelaire orphans are constantly facing miserable situations and in danger of falling under the claws of Count Olaf.<br /><br />Violet is the oldest orphan and has a great ability for inventing new gadgets that have helped the orphans more than once when they were in trouble. Klaus is the middle one in age and the only male; he loves to read and his knowledge is far superior to most boys his age. Sunny is an infant and enjoys going around biting things with her four sharp teeth. The poor siblings lost their father and are now being chased around by Count Olaf, who wants to get their fortune. The Baudelaire's last tutor succumbed at the hands of the evil Count and now the kids are being taken to their new house by Mr. Poe, the executioner of the estate.<br /><br />The sibling's new tutor, Aunt Josephine, lives in a house that is leaning over a cliff above Lake Lachrymose. The scary thing is that the lake is infested with hungry leeches, and since these predators killed Josephine's husband, she is terrified of the lake. She is also afraid of stoves, doorknobs, and a whole myriad of harmless things. Due to some of the aunt's fears, the orphans have to eat cold food and refrain from answering the phone. On top of that, they have to endure the grammar \\"lessons\\" Josephine is constantly delivering because she loves the subject.<br /><br />Even though things are not perfect, the Baudelaire siblings are content with their new situation. That is until Count Olaf shows his ugly face in a new disguise, repeating in his approach to getting the desired fortune a pattern already seen in the past. This is the only criticism I have for this book and the reason why I am not giving it five stars. I hope that in the next installment, the author changes the basic structure of the story flow. I am still very much eager though to read the next book and to watch the movie coming out in December 2004, which is based on the first three books of the series: \\"The Bad Beginning\\", \\"The Reptile Room\\" and \\"The Wide Window\\".n why I am not giving it five stars. I hope that in the next installment, the author changes the basic structure of the story flow. I am still very much eager though to read the next book and to watch the movie coming out in December 2004, which is based on the first three books of the series: \\"The Bad Beginning\\", \\"The Reptile Room\\" and \\"The Wide Window\\".	2004-12-06
US	45042957	RW21EYO2OEQG9	0425160394	737300478	Vengeance in Death	Books	5	7	8	N	N	"The name of the little riddle is Revenge"	The previous book in the series was good but left me with a somewhat bitter taste. The reason was the J.D. Robb plunged into the unnatural events genre alla Laurell K. Hamilton. Since I enjoy the work by both authors, I would rather see each one of them write about that which they \\"know\\" best. This is why I was pleasantly surprised when in this book I found no references to events outside the boundaries of the futuristic world of 2058.<br /><br />Finally, the year 2058 is coming to an end, and it is unbelievable how much has happened in just a few months: Lieutenant Eve Dallas and Roarke meeting and getting married, Eve remembering crucial events from her childhood, Mavis seeing her career surging forward, and many others. The current case involves a serial killer that punishes people that have strayed from the path of the Lord. The first victim Eve finds was not only killed, but also tortured savagely. To complicate matters further, the victim is an old friend of Roarke, from his time in Ireland, when Eve's husband was involved in certain activities that would not be appreciated by Eve.<br /><br />In the case of the second victim, the killer's intentions become a little clearer, since he calls Eve and gives her a clue useful for finding the victim before the time of death. So now it is personal, since the killer wants Eve as an opponent and the second victim is also a friend of Roarke. The relationship between Eve and Roarke is put to the test, since Roarke's secrets from his past may aid Eve in the investigation, but these secrets make him criminally liable. Is Eve more concerned about justice than about keeping her husband? Things really heat up when Sommerset, Roarke's faithful servant, becomes a suspect in the investigation.<br /><br />The quality picks up considerably compared to \\"Ceremony in Death\\", with Robb focusing on what she does best and also limiting the passionate scenes to more reasonable levels. These had gotten a little bit out of hand in previous works in terms of their frequency and lack of variation in their development. Now the author creates a much better balance, presenting the scenes for those that crave them, but not repeating them so much so as to make the book a little boring. Hopefully, the quality of the series will remain at this level until the end.vious works in terms of their frequency and lack of variation in their development. Now the author creates a much better balance, presenting the scenes for those that crave them, but not repeating them so much so as to make the book a little boring. Hopefully, the quality of the series will remain at this level until the end. <br />	2004-12-02
US	45042957	R2RNTKZ5030LF2	055358670X	547505591	Lord of the Shadows (The Second Sons Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	"Neris had once told him he needed to be a better liar"	After the first two books I was afraid that the conclusion of the trilogy would not be as good as I was expecting, since just keeping up with the quality level set before seemed to be almost impossible. Luckily, my fears were set to rest as soon as I started reading this book and I could enjoy one of the best fantasy works I have read so far. Fallon delivers a conclusion that has the reader constantly guessing about Dirk's plans, Marquel's machinations and the complicated relationships among the different characters.<br /><br />At the end of the second novel I found myself running to the bookstore to get the final installment, since there was too much excitement in the story. Marquel had just murdered the High Priestess, Belagren, and was playing her games to obtain the position. Dirk, following his plans, has just betrayed Tia after sleeping with her, but then helped her escape. She is back in Mil, certain that Dirk betrayed her and is trying to convince everyone else in the Beanlands of Dirk's trickery. There is one person though, that sees clearly through Dirk's plans, none other than Neris!<br /><br />In terms of our main character, Dirk, we find a man that is tormented by the doubts about whether his plan is going to work and also whether the sacrifices he is making are justified. Besides the games of politics and deception in which he is involved, he has to deal with the Brotherhood, a group of assassins that have been hired by the Baenlanders to kill him. He also has to be careful with the way he handles his relationship with the most powerful man in the kingdom, the Lion of Senet.<br /><br />If you have read the first two books, I know I do not have to convince you to read the last one, because no one could refrain from doing it. I can only assure you that you will not be disappointed by the conclusion of the trilogy. If you are not familiar with the series, I recommend that you get \\"The Lion of Senet\\" right now and immerse yourself in the wonderful Second Sons Trilogy.	2004-11-30
US	45042957	R2XPP2X3CR30VE	0595327249	536378931	Aunt Puff and Missing Minerva	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Elacrim is never closed, since miracles are always needed	Lately, I have been reading a fair amount of children books, focusing mostly on those that I think will be enjoyable for adults too. In this case I was not disappointed, since Whitewolf presents a wonderful book, with a set of colorful and interesting characters that will fascinate kids and grownups alike.<br /><br />Alexandra, the narrator of our story, has been a little depressed lately because her best friend had an accident while the two of them were skating in the pond. Her friend did not sustain serious injuries, but Alexandra is beating herself up for the not reacting as she should have, and been paralyzed by fear instead. She lives with Aunt Puff in a greenhouse and they are both eagerly expecting the arrival of Minerva, Aunt Puff's best friend.<br /><br />Alexandra is a little frustrated because there is an aura of mystery around Aunt Puff, Minerva and their past together in the Elacrim foundation. Meanwhile, Minerva has some disturbing news about somebody planning to escape from somewhere, but Alexandra does not get a chance to get full details, which makes her even more curious. The plot thickens and the title of the book is honored when Minerva goes missing and Aunt Puff and Alexandra go out looking for her. They will find a myriad of challenges and a never-ending series of unusual events in their path, along with a threatening and disturbing presence.<br /><br />Whitewolf presents clear proof of his prodigious imagination through the characters, the artifacts and the events in this story. Besides the humans involved, there is a dog, named Ludwig, and a cockatoo, named Ciber, that add a very special flavor to the narration. I have no doubt that this book will delight anyone that dares to go into the realm of the Elacrim foundation!	2004-11-07
US	45042957	RTQXCK4L46YH4	0553586696	705746051	Eye of the Labyrinth (The Second Sons Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	"The secret lies within the Eye of the Labyrinth"	The second book in the Second Sons trilogy keeps up with the quality delivered in \\"The Lion of Senet\\". The story evolves nicely and keeps the reader on his toes the whole time. As happened in the previous book, I was surprised by the hate and anger some of the characters generated in me and how I cheered for others with passion. I would imagine that most people experience similar emotions and find this read riveting and almost impossible to suspend.<br /><br />The story resumes two years after the events that took place at the end of book one. Dirk Provin, one of the main characters in the story, is a fugitive and his mother's husband, Wallin, has just died. His half-brother Rees is the new Duke of Elcast and is supporting Dirk's enemy, the Lion of Senet. Meanwhile, Dirk's mother, Morna, is in dire-straits, since the death of her husband left her at the mercy of the Lion of Senet and the High Priestess (Belagren). Morna knows that there must be an explanation for the things she knows about her son, which are that Dirk raped a Shadowdancer and that he killed his father Johan Thorn and then fled, but it is hard for her to imagine what this explanation is.<br /><br />Antonov, the Lion of Senet, wants to control Dhevyn, so he is going to get his son, Kirshov, married to Alenor, the princess of Dhevyn and Dirk's cousin. Antonov strongly believes in the Goddess; he even killed his newborn son when a sacrifice was required to end the Age of the Shadows. Belagren convinced him to do so by telling him that the Goddess had spoken to her, but in reality, she found out that the era was going to finish with the help of a genius called Neris Veran. The problem for Belagren now is that Neris created a labyrinth that holds the secrets of when the next Age of Shadows is due, and of course Belagren needs this information if she wants people to keep believing in the Goddess and in Belagren being her chosen one.<br /><br />Then we have Tia Veran, Neris' daughter, who is hoping that Dirk will be able to find the secrets her father holds relative to the Age of the Shadows and use that information to bring down Belagren and quench Senet's power. Neris is having a great time with this, which represents a break from his routine and the chance of having a sharp mind like Dirk's around him. Therefore, he tells things to Dirk in a very subtle way, surrounding his information with riddles and puzzles.<br /><br />I have already moved forward to the last book in the trilogy, taking advantage of the fact that when the first book was published in the US, the whole series was already written. I am willing to bet that most of you will feel the urge to start the third book right away, since the suspense will torture you otherwise. Fallon has passed her second test with marks as high as those she achieved with the first book and I am confident the third book will not dissapoint either!at Dirk will be able to find the secrets her father holds relative to the Age of the Shadows and use that information to bring down Belagren and quench Senet's power. Neris is having a great time with this, which represents a break from his routine and the chance of having a sharp mind like Dirk's around him. Therefore, he tells things to Dirk in a very subtle way, surrounding his information with riddles and puzzles.  <br /> <br />I have already moved forward to the last book in the trilogy, taking advantage of the fact that when the first book was published in the US, the whole series was already written. I am willing to bet that most of you will feel the urge to start the third book right away, since the suspense will torture you otherwise. Fallon has passed her second test with marks as high as those she achieved with the first book and I am confident the third book will not dissapoint either! <br />	2004-08-20
US	45042957	RDNU6KKUMEGMF	0066209447	722701151	The News from Paraguay: A Novel	Books	4	33	38	N	N	A powerful historical novel	Those that have studied South American history or are interested in doing so will find this novel extremely interesting, since the author collected as much historical evidence as she could and filled in the voids with clever fiction based on these facts. Lily Tuck presents an interesting character, Francisco Solano Lopez, focusing the story and developing the action around his mistress, Ella Lynch. La Ella, as she was called by the locals, had an importance and notoriety similar to the one achieved by Eva Peron in Argentina. The narration consists of a mixture of short passages from different sources: snippets of Ella's personal diary and letters, descriptions of events that took place during that time and scenes among the different characters. These bring the story nicely to life.<br /><br />Franco's father sent him to Europe in the year 1854 as an ambassador, and in France he met and was mesmerized by Ella. She was nineteen years old and already a widow, but had so much life and desire to live in her that could charm any man and surmount any obstacle. Her personal diary shows this vitality, and when the years go by, we witness the slow withering of her passion and feistiness. From the start, we also see Franco's feistiness, which differs with Ella's in one very important aspect: while hers was positive and good-natured, his was capricious and envious.<br /><br />Francisco Solano Lopez seduced Ella and took her with him to Paraguay. At this point is the only time in the story in which we can observe a positive desire in Franco, since he wanted to make Paraguay a better place. However, the real Franco surfaced fast enough, when during the trip home his temper showed up uninvited and the poor servants and underlings suffered the consequences. Upon his arrival in Paraguay, Franco started experiencing an urge for power that was fulfilled in part by the death of his father and his appointment as new dictator. Nevertheless, this did not quench his thirst as he wanted to emulate Napoleon's imperialism. This desire to dominate larger empires led him to confrontations with other countries, which ended with one of the biggest wars in the history of Paraguay, what was called as the war of the Triple Alianza. Although this war was not entirely Francisco Solano Lopez's fault as the narration leads us to believe, his arrogant and pushy behavior gave the other three countries, Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay and excuse to exterminate most of the Paraguayan population.<br /><br />I wish I had had books in my childhood narrating history the way this one does. The characters come to life and their motivations are easy to understand, making all the historical facts that result from their actions completely logical too. Even though I was born in Uruguay and lived there a good part of my life, I found stories here that helped me understand situations that I did not fully comprehend before. With the exception of the reasons behind the war of the Triple Alianza, this is a highly recommended read.d to emulate Napoleon's imperialism. This desire to dominate larger empires led him to confrontations with other countries, which ended with one of the biggest wars in the history of Paraguay, what was called as the war of the Triple Alianza. Although this war was not entirely Francisco Solano Lopez's fault as the narration leads us to believe, his arrogant and pushy behavior gave the other three countries, Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay and excuse to exterminate most of the Paraguayan population. <br /> <br />I wish I had had books in my childhood narrating history the way this one does. The characters come to life and their motivations are easy to understand, making all the historical facts that result from their actions completely logical too. Even though I was born in Uruguay and lived there a good part of my life, I found stories here that helped me understand situations that I did not fully comprehend before. With the exception of the reasons behind the war of the Triple Alianza, this is a highly recommended read. <br />	2004-07-21
US	45042957	R27A2AWA9TSLEL	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	&quot;Protector, guardian, bailiff, constable-for-hire...&quot;	When we are faced with a main character like Ben Weaver, involved in performing tasks like the ones mentioned in the title of this review, we know we are in for a great ride. David Liss does not disappoint us and delivers on this implicit promise, clearly showing his gifts as a writer in the process. The author presents a highly interesting historical novel, with an intricate plot, and full of twists that will leave the readers guessing until the end. The fact that he deals with the financial markets and concepts like probability in the eighteenth century, added to the attractiveness of the story for me, since these are topics with which I have been involved throughout my studies and in my current job.<br />It is an era of turmoil in England; King James has been deposed and is supported by France. This is the ideal setting for criminals to operate, since confusion reigns in the country. Ben Weaver is a Jew who left his father's home and changed his name a few years ago and had a brief moment of fame as a pugilist. Now he sustains himself by working as hired help in various enterprises, most of them dealing with helping people that have fallen victims of illegal acts. Weaver, whose real name is Lienzo (those who read &quot;The Coffee Trader&quot; will recognize the name), tells the story that starts with a murder of sorts in which he was involved. He was trying to recover the pocketbook of Sir Owen and when faced with a murderer his only option was to strike back and kill him.<br />Most of the thefts in the city are orchestrated or supervised by a character named Wild, who has all kinds of ruffians working for him and who offers services similar to the ones Weaver offers. Needless to say, Wild has a much easier time recovering the goods, since he basically charges people to give them back what he stole from them. Also, Weaver is contacted by Michael Balfour, who claims that Weaver's father, who died recently in an accident, was murdered, as was Balfour's own father. Balfour hires Weaver to find out the truth and Ben ends up having to contact his uncle Miguel Lienzo and slowly going back to his Jewish roots.<br />The plot has considerable depth and a myriad of suspicious characters are involved in Weaver's investigations. Also, the way Liss describes the characters and settings makes it easy to visualize them clearly. His treatment of the theme of Judaism and what it meant to be member of this religion in Europe, especially England, shortly after the Inquisition is enlightening and shocking at the same time. This is a novel I thoroughly enjoyed and I am looking forward to reading the next work by this great author.Balfour hires Weaver to find out the truth and Ben ends up having to contact his uncle Miguel Lienzo and slowly going back to his Jewish roots. <br />The plot has considerable depth and a myriad of suspicious characters are involved in Weaver's investigations. Also, the way Liss describes the characters and settings makes it easy to visualize them clearly. His treatment of the theme of Judaism and what it meant to be member of this religion in Europe, especially England, shortly after the Inquisition is enlightening and shocking at the same time. This is a novel I thoroughly enjoyed and I am looking forward to reading the next work by this great author.	2004-07-13
US	45042957	RRD1HNYHS57XI	0425157628	737300478	Ceremony in Death	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Is Eve Dallas moving towards Anita Blake?	The futuristic series by J.D Robb featuring Eve Dallas as the main character has been one of the series I have enjoyed most lately. Another series I love is the one written by Laurell K. Hamilton and presenting Anita Blake, vampire executioner and animator, as its heroine. The two have a few common traits, the clearest one being tough and sexy main female characters. Also, both series are now being published by the same house (Berkley Publishing Group). Nevertheless, I was extremely surprised when J.D. Robb introduced in this novel some of the elements I am used to finding in the Hamilton series, like shapeshifters and black magic. I enjoy the futuristic world in which Eve lives and hope that in the future Robb sticks with that world without trying to incorporate elements that are successful in another author's work.<br />As usual J.D. Robb jumps into the action right away, with the death of Frank Wojinski, a cop that served as Feeney's trainer when Eve's friend and mentor joined the force. The death was ruled as a heart attack, but there are some unanswered questions, especially since the cop was young: sixty-two years old! One of the granddaughters of the deceased, Alice, surreptitiously asks Eve for a meeting claiming that Eve's life is in danger. Alice tells Eve that she believes a black witch called Selina is involved in her granddad's death.<br /><br />Selina was seen shortly before Frank's death selling drugs to him, so now Eve is asked to investigate Frank's death and to determine whether he was a dirty cop or was just working undercover by his own volition. To make matters worse, traces of the drug Zeus were found in the body and Eve is asked to leave Feeney out of the investigation and in the dark. When Alice is run over by a car and then the body of one of the members of Selina's sect is left outside Eve's and Roarke's house, the action develops too close to home and Eve must do everything in her power to solve the case before it affects her life.<br /><br />The story is fast-paced as we are used to, and Robb is efficient in presenting the characteristics of the world in which the characters live in 2058 without boring the regular readers. Those who have not ventured in the series before will have enough information to understand what is going on and what the relationships between the different characters are. The storylines connected to the main characters' lives keep moving forward. The relationship between Eve and Roarke is of course central to the story, but in some cases the amorous scenes between these two become a little repetitive. Certain elements of Eve's childhood keep showing up, and all the supporting characters, Mavis, Peabody, etc, are present and contribute to the overall quality and depth of the story. I hope J.D. Robb returns to her path by moving away from magic and staying with the futuristic series that I enjoy so much.r />The story is fast-paced as we are used to, and Robb is efficient in presenting the characteristics of the world in which the characters live in 2058 without boring the regular readers. Those who have not ventured in the series before will have enough information to understand what is going on and what the relationships between the different characters are. The storylines connected to the main characters' lives keep moving forward. The relationship between Eve and Roarke is of course central to the story, but in some cases the amorous scenes between these two become a little repetitive. Certain elements of Eve's childhood keep showing up, and all the supporting characters, Mavis, Peabody, etc, are present and contribute to the overall quality and depth of the story. I hope J.D. Robb returns to her path by moving away from magic and staying with the futuristic series that I enjoy so much.	2004-07-13
US	45042957	R2CFH9R9ACV32	0778320804	944828088	The Halo Effect (Mira)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	"Why was my panic always so close to the surface?"	It was completely delightful to find a novel that has an interesting plot, a thrilling pace and characters with depth, including a heroine that captivates. Dr. Morgan Snow has been working as a psychiatrist for The Butterfield Institute for the last five years. Morgan's clientele is varied and includes all kinds of characters. One of her patients is a call girl named Cleo, who has succeeded in developing a business by herself and leads a comfortable life.<br />Cleo Thane has written a book with her memoirs of her life in the trade, revealing secrets of very influential people, their fantasies and fetishes. Cleo has been able to secure a six-figure contract from a publisher, and even though she disguised the male characters with which she has had sexual encounters, the descriptions may be enough to identify them, so Cleo asks Dr. Snow to read the manuscript and give her an opinion as to whether publishing the book is a good idea or not.<br />M. J. Rose succeeds in her presentation of the main characters by giving them substance and a rich personal history. Morgan has recently finalized her divorce, and has a twelve-year-old daughter who wants to be an actress and takes this very seriously. Morgan has trouble dealing with her recollections of her mother who was also a child actress, and how this affected the way in which Morgan's childhood developed. The fact that the author switches back and forth between her narrative and the one done by Morgan makes the novel more interesting and also makes easier to understand the motivations and logic behind the actions of the heroine.<br />In \\"The Halo Effect\\", when a killer starts murdering prostitutes, the first one being a patient of Morgan, and then Cleo disappears, Morgan feels compelled to take action. The bodies have been left dressed as nuns, with their pubic hair shaved in the shape of a cross and the women have been given the sacraments before their death. Special Victims Unit detective Noah Jordain contacts Morgan seeking her help in profiling the killer. She is also contacted by Cleo's business partner and by Cleo's boyfriend, both of which want to look at the manuscript and wish to know about what was said in the psychiatric sessions. Morgan is thus placed between a rock and a hard place, if she talks, she breaches the confidence Cleo placed in her, but if she does not and Cleo is really in trouble, she is preventing her from getting help.<br />The only \\"reasonable\\" option is from Morgan to get involved in the investigation, even when she need to go against the advice of her godmother, protector and owner of The Butterfield Institute, Dr. Nina Butterfield. From this point forward, we are swept away into a fast paced thriller that has all the necessary elements to be a bestseller. I guarantee you will not regret picking this one up.eking her help in profiling the killer. She is also contacted by Cleo's business partner and by Cleo's boyfriend, both of which want to look at the manuscript and wish to know about what was said in the psychiatric sessions. Morgan is thus placed between a rock and a hard place, if she talks, she breaches the confidence Cleo placed in her, but if she does not and Cleo is really in trouble, she is preventing her from getting help. <br />The only \\"reasonable\\" option is from Morgan to get involved in the investigation, even when she need to go against the advice of her godmother, protector and owner of The Butterfield Institute, Dr. Nina Butterfield. From this point forward, we are swept away into a fast paced thriller that has all the necessary elements to be a bestseller. I guarantee you will not regret picking this one up.	2004-07-01
US	45042957	R2N9S85DSQGEJY	0743487842	425555121	Bad Men: A Thriller (Connolly, John)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	&quot;Now, something was awake.&quot;	John Connolly delivers an impressive thriller, which I found almost impossible to put down after jumping into its exquisitely elaborated plot. He switches back and forth between the past and the present with ease, demonstrating his skills. Dutch Island is situated at a one and a half hour ferry ride from Portland, and it has been the setting of mysterious and unsettling events throughout its history. This is the setting for the marvelous story presented by Connolly.<br />In the late seventeenth century Indians consistently raided the various islands in the area outside of what is known today as Portland, pushing the white settlers away. But in 1691 thirty individuals arrived to Dutch Island, which at the time was also known as Sanctuary, and decided to give it a try. Bauer, one of the men that formed part of the group, was justly accused of attempting to rape another man's wife. When he asked his own wife for shelter against his pursuers she did not comply and he was captured. However, he was able to escape and he returned years later with renegade Indians as his &quot;hired help&quot; bringing mayhem to the village. After the horrible events that developed in the island, the ghosts of the dead were left behind to cohabitate with the living. Usually, they do not interact much with humans, but now something is growing, and some people in the island can feel it.<br />Connolly creates interesting and well-developed characters, like the giant Joe Dupree, seven feet two inches and three hundred and sixty pounds, who is in charge of the police department in Dutch Island. He is courting Marianne, a woman who has some secrets in store, but he also has some secrets of his own. Moloch is sitting in jail awaiting his forced appearance before the Grand Jury, and knowing that when that happens he will be facing charges that deserve the capital punishment. When he sleeps, he has disturbing dreams, in which he leads a gang of renegade Indians into an island in search for his wife who had betrayed him. Finally, there are a couple of other characters that add flavor to the mix: Jack, a painter with little talent, but whose paintings evolve after he is done with them, and Richie, a twenty-five-year-old &quot;kid&quot; who has the ability to see unnatural events unfold.<br />It is reinvigorating to find authors that besides creating exciting stories that keep you reading all night, possess the gift of writing. This is the case of John Connolly, who not only leads us towards the end of the story with a fast-paced plot full of suspense, but who also knows how to make us enjoy the ride to get there.who had betrayed him. Finally, there are a couple of other characters that add flavor to the mix: Jack, a painter with little talent, but whose paintings evolve after he is done with them, and Richie, a twenty-five-year-old &quot;kid&quot; who has the ability to see unnatural events unfold.<br />It is reinvigorating to find authors that besides creating exciting stories that keep you reading all night, possess the gift of writing. This is the case of John Connolly, who not only leads us towards the end of the story with a fast-paced plot full of suspense, but who also knows how to make us enjoy the ride to get there.	2004-06-25
US	45042957	R3OGMU2JH9YZDX	0425155188	939449265	Rapture in Death	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Even honeymoons have to end	The previous novel dealt with the preparations for the wedding between Eve and Roarke, and the &quot;minor&quot; inconvenience for the former of having to keep her best friend, Mavis, out of jail. This book starts with the honeymoon, which surprised me, since the author did not give any descriptions of the eagerly awaited wedding. We get a glimpse here and there of a few aspects of the ceremony in this book, but I think there were a lot of readers interested in a more thorough description of the event.<br />Lieutenant Eve Dallas does not even get to finish her honeymoon in peace. In the last stage of their trip, Eve is spending some time in one of the many resorts off-planet Roarke owns and is involved in a case when an employee is found hanged in his room. Even though there are no reasons for this person to commit suicide, there is no other logical conclusion, so that is the ruling at the time. Back home and after resuming her duties, Eve has to spend a day in court facing a pushy and crafty defense attorney, but her hate turns to surprise when he is found hours later as a victim of an apparent suicide. When she discovers that a politician with no reasons to kill himself jumped from a building, the coincidence becomes too much and Eve gets deeper and deeper into one of the toughest cases she has faced yet.<br />J.D. Robb maintains a high level of quality in terms of writing, a fast-paced action and a good character development. At least for me what happens with the relationships between the characters is half the fun. Peabody is given a more prominent role as Eve's aid after the last case, in which a criminal working from within the police department used the young cop for his evil purposes. We even get to take another step towards understanding Eve's childhood, since in this installment she remembers more facts about what her father did to her and about how she ultimately killed him. This futuristic series has clearly got my attention and it will not let go!	2004-06-12
US	45042957	RXXTOT8LCHRU1	0316746711	925892154	The Devil's Highway: A True Story	Books	5	103	120	N	N	&quot;They did not have enough items to fill a carry-on bag&quot;	Urrea delivers a moving novel based on the true story of the Yuma 14, fourteen Mexicans (from a group of 26) that tried to cross the border and enter the US illegally through the Arizona desert and succumbed in the attempt. The author presents the facts efficiently and his conclusion follows: Mexicans trying to cross the border are human beings like everyone else that had the bad fortune of facing tough economic condition; they should be respected.<br />The author describes the conditions and historic events that lead to the beginning of the illegal immigration into the US and draws a clear parallelism with our times, when there are several tasks in the US that Americans are reluctant to do, thus illegal immigrants are needed for this. When price changes in international markets adversely affected the Mexican economy and overpopulation became a problem, some Mexicans decided to come to the US. They ended up with a comfortable life, so when others found out, a growing interest in crossing the border developed.<br />Organizations of coyotes were formed to provide supply for the growing demand, and the poor people seeking a better future became just a means to an end. These individuals in their attempts have to fight against the heat of the desert, thirst, exhaustion, &quot;la migra&quot; (Border Patrol) and the coyotes themselves. On top of this, the control at the border has intensified throughout the last years, so the groups seeking a new future have to go through more dangerous paths each time. In the case of the twenty-six Mexicans that are the center of this story, the point of entry was the Devil's Highway, a deadly desert in Arizona that has claimed numerous victims through the years.<br />Urrea shows his outstanding knowledge of the topic in question and uses this in his descriptions with no holes barred. One of the most shocking passages of the book was the explanation of the different stages of death by heat, which go from Heat Stress to Heat Stroke. The realism and brutality of this account left me absolutely breathless. Overall, the quality of the novel is outstanding and even though it is a tough read at some points, in the end it is extremely satisfying and enlightening.realism and brutality of this account left me absolutely breathless. Overall, the quality of the novel is outstanding and even though it is a tough read at some points, in the end it is extremely satisfying and enlightening.	2004-05-31
US	45042957	R3CJNAMLKUAZLO	0064407675	704463408	The Reptile Room (A Series of Unfortunate Events #2)	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Still unfortunate, still great	Lemony Snicket stays faithful to his strategy in the first book in this series, the Baudelaire siblings are still going through unhappy situations, the vicious Count Olaf is back, and the author's writing style remains unchanged. The book is fun to read and I recommend it to people of all ages, but please pay heed to the warning the author presents in the back cover. In essence, this warning is: if you are looking for a happy story, go search elsewhere.<br /><br />After Count Olaf's plan to get the Baudelaire orphans money failed, he was lucky enough to escape. The three siblings, Violet (the inventor), Klaus (the reader) and Sunny (the biter) are placed with a relative in the country. Dr. Montgomery is a herpetologist, thus he studies snakes, and he receives the three children in an extremely friendly and loving way. Uncle Morty teaches the kids about snakes and reptiles and everyone is living happily, but grimmer times will soon arrive. Count Olaf reappears and he is meaner than before, his plot to obtain the riches from Baudelaire orphans is heinous and the count will stop at nothing to achieve his goal.<br />The author continues using the technique of defining words that do not need be defined in his attempt to ridicule some children books. He even lets Klaus express the frustration some readers may feel when Mr. Poe is explaining to him what ridicule means and Klaus snaps back \\"I know what 'ridicule' means\\". Snicket also shows what a great sense of humor he has and he uses it to criticize some legendary classics, like Little Red Riding Hood and The Boy Who Cried Wolf. For example, in the case of the latter, he states that the moral of the story is not that people should not lie, but \\"Never live somewhere where wolves are running around loose\\". I am looking really forward to read the next installment in this enchanting series.	2004-05-31
US	45042957	R3R5RXNMD5HSVQ	0525948074	61843757	Shadow Men: A Max Freeman Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	&quot;Something was coming...I knew I would not welcome it&quot;	Edgar Award winning author Jonathon King presents his third novel in the Max Freeman series. I have really enjoyed all three books and specially like the way in which the author allows us glimpses of Max's past in each of the novels, letting us build an ever-growing detailed depiction of the main character. In the previous books, we found out about the episode that made Max leave the Philly police department and &quot;retire&quot; to the Everglades; now King takes us deeper into the relationship between Max and his father.<br />Billy, Max's attorney and best friend, has a client that found a bunch of letters from one of his ancestors who worked along with his two sons in the construction of the Tamiami Trail. The letters describe the hardships they had to go through, as well as a series of &quot;accidents&quot; suffered by some of the workers who decided they had enough and tried to leave the project and return to civilization. At one point the letters stopped and nobody ever heard from the three men again. Billy requests Max's help in investigating what happened, and this make some people very nervous.<br />At the same time, the DA is trying to evict Max from his shack in the Everglades and someone is going through the trouble of threatening Max and attacking his dwelling. Sherry Richards, the police officer Max &quot;discovered&quot; and fell for in the previous novel is still around and the relationship is still on track. However, a fellow female officer of Richard's is the victim of abuse by her lover, who is also a cop, and Max and Richards end up involved in the issue. These events are the ones that get Max to recall the events from the past that relate to his father.<br />Jonathon King is moving forward through this series with a sure step and without losing intensity. In my particular case, I enjoy the fact that the novel is set up in the Miami / Ft. Lauderdale area, since I lived there for a couple of years and can &quot;see&quot; the places the author describes very clearly. Also, I have driven through the Tamiami Trail several times, and it is interesting to know at least part of the history on its construction, even though some of the facts presented by King are fiction.ribes very clearly. Also, I have driven through the Tamiami Trail several times, and it is interesting to know at least part of the history on its construction, even though some of the facts presented by King are fiction.	2004-05-29
US	45042957	R38V1QE8X1XG6N	0743432924	783155306	The Intelligencer	Books	4	13	13	N	N	&quot;And Marlowe's secret life as an intelligencer began&quot;	Leslie Silbert presents a very enticing book, using two different story lines, one in England at the end of the sixteenth century and one in the present. These events are of course interrelated, making the book a very enjoyable read and allowing us to understand better what is happening in our times. It is easy to notice that Silbert has a fair amount of knowledge about the historic topic she explores and the writing in the passages set in the times of Elizabeth I is great. However, when she gets into the present day part of the book, we observe a clear deterioration in the quality of her writing.<br />In England, 1593, Christopher Marlowe is enjoying his huge success as a play writer, but he is not only that. He is also a counterfeiter of English shillings, and a spy (intelligencer) at the queen's service. There is a war for power going on at this time to obtain the position as right hand of the queen. The contenders are Sir Robert Cecil and the Earl of Essex, and Marlowe assists Cecil in the struggle. The ploys and counter ploys that each side fabricates and puts in practice are clever and exciting enough to keep the reader interested.<br />In the present time in London, the Baron is in the process of stealing an old manuscript that contains a crucial secret. When he loses his life in the process, Kate Morgan, a private eye in New York, is assigned to investigate his death and the reasons behind the theft. Her client, Cidro Medina, is the owner of the manuscript and wants to know what its contents and value are. Kate, much as the author herself, is not only a private detective, but also a Renaissance scholar. She explains to Medina that the writer of the manuscript, Thomas Phellipes, was a master at breaking codes, and none other than the right hand of the founder of the secret service at Marlowe's times. She then starts focusing most of her energy in deciphering the contents of the manuscript, but is diverted several times by people that are trying to steal the document for themselves.<br />Overall, this is a very good novel, but besides the somewhat sloppy writing in the current times passages I was a little disappointed by the scarce detail given about the code breaking process. The author focuses a lot more in the action when dealing with Kate Morgan, than in explaining more thoroughly how she breaks each code. I think that if Silbert had elaborated more in this aspect she would have maintained the reader's interest at a higher level in the Morgan part of the book.ocument for themselves.<br />Overall, this is a very good novel, but besides the somewhat sloppy writing in the current times passages I was a little disappointed by the scarce detail given about the code breaking process. The author focuses a lot more in the action when dealing with Kate Morgan, than in explaining more thoroughly how she breaks each code. I think that if Silbert had elaborated more in this aspect she would have maintained the reader's interest at a higher level in the Morgan part of the book.	2004-05-29
US	45042957	R2J3AVPRY4QK7J	0061020710	181852028	The Color of Magic	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"!" said the stranger	This is the first book in the Discworld series and Terry Pratchett does an outstanding job of introducing the \\"logic\\" that reins in this world and some of the main characters that inhabit it. It has been a while since I found a book that made me laugh so much, the author has a great sense of humor, and he uses different means and techniques to make the reader roll on the floor with laughter.<br />Discworld rests on four giant elephants, Beriha, Tubul, Great T'Phon and Jerakeen, which stand on top of the giant turtle A'Tuin. The people in this world have asked themselves the same questions over and over through time: What is A'Tuin's sex? Where is the world going? The answer to the second question is evident...to where A'Tuin decides!<br />I cannot help but feel that the fantastic world that Pratchett has created is based on our own \\"old world\\" with elements of the new one mixed in. For example, glasses, or cameras are considered elements of magic. Of course, the author does not stop there and adds other fantastical elements to the mix. One of the \\"regular\\" concepts we are used to handling in our world that made me laugh like crazy is inn-sewer-ants; sorry but you will have to read the book to figure out what this is, I do not want to give that much away!<br />The story starts when the oldest city in the world, Ankh-Morpork, is burning. Rincewind, the most useless wizard ever, is escaping from the city with Twoflower, a mysterious tourist that comes from the distant and mythical Counterweight Continent. When they are safely away from danger, we start learning about how they met and what were the events that lead to the fire. In this tale and in the one that continues after the characters leave Ankh, we will meet various characters, all of them picturesque and with a great ability to amuse.<br />The only negative aspect I can point out is that the world, characters and rules are a little complicated. Add to this the fact that there are no maps, since as Pratchett says \\"You cannot map the sense of humor\\". Anyway, I think that once I start reading the following installments in the series I will be able to get a more thorough understanding. The series well deserves the effort in doing this.\\"You cannot map the sense of humor\\". Anyway, I think that once I start reading the following installments in the series I will be able to get a more thorough understanding. The series well deserves the effort in doing this.	2004-05-26
US	45042957	RQD21IKVN4LLM	0316000647	657855247	Absolute Friends	Books	4	6	7	N	N	"We meet, we fight a war, we separate for a decade"	John LeCarre delivers a novel that is different from what we are used to, and although there are elements of espionage, the story centers on the personality, feelings and thoughts of the main character. Ted Mundy works as a guide at the Linderhof in Munich, after being betrayed by his partner in a previous business. The partner ran away with the money, leaving Ted broke and wandering through the streets, where he met a Turkish prostitute by the name of Zara. He helps Zara and her eleven-year-old son, Mustafa, and establishes a \\"family\\" with them. Both Zara and Ted are lost souls who find solace in each other, especially the latter when he realizes his problems are negligible compared to the ones the former has. These two characters generate a level of sympathy in the reader similar to the one awoken by some of the characters in Fyodor Dostoevsky's novels.<br />Just when things start going OK, Sasha shows up at the Linderhof with a proposition. At this stage we learn that these two characters are linked by their past and the author goes into a thorough description of Ted Mundy's origins as a spy, starting with his childhood in Pakistan, moving onto Ted's youth and ending at the present time with a former spy. Ted is a person that has associated himself with any cause he encountered, starting with anarchism joining his girlfriend Ilse in her quest and moving on to communism and later socialism. At each of these points, we observe a young man that is completely influenced by the people he befriends and admires, one of them being Sasha.<br />LeCarre excels at presenting the human side of a character that will later become a spy \\"just by chance\\", evidencing that the espionage world is not only composed by cold calculating individuals, but there are some \\"normal\\" guys too. Once we grasp the motivations, conflicts and hopes of our main character, the author brings us back to the present and to the details of Sasha's proposal, which involves a mysterious man that goes by the name of Dimitri, and who presents Ted with a very tempting offer.<br />I must confess that I was pleasantly surprised by \\"Absolute Friends\\", since I was expecting a pure spy thriller, but found instead a well-developed novel, with three-dimensional characters and an engaging and thought provoking plot. This is a work that clearly evidences that LeCarre is at a stage in his career in which he does not hold anything back and is willing to speak his mind. He has the advantage that he can use his masterful prose to convey what he wants to express.e name of Dimitri, and who presents Ted with a very tempting offer. <br />I must confess that I was pleasantly surprised by \\"Absolute Friends\\", since I was expecting a pure spy thriller, but found instead a well-developed novel, with three-dimensional characters and an engaging and thought provoking plot. This is a work that clearly evidences that LeCarre is at a stage in his career in which he does not hold anything back and is willing to speak his mind. He has the advantage that he can use his masterful prose to convey what he wants to express.	2004-05-17
US	45042957	RSYU2ZKXMCCYC	0060554266	468262648	A Blade of Grass: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Ambitious but does not engage the reader	The story revolves around on the relationship between two women, one white the other black, in South Africa during the times of the apartheid. I found the theme is extremely interesting and since several book clubs have featured &quot;A Blade of Grass&quot; as their main selection, I decided to read the book. To my disappointment I found myself tumbling along the pages, due to the far from efficient execution by the author. In most cases the descriptions DeSoto presents are rich and enlightening, but the dialogue lacks depth and interest.<br />Marit Laurens has just moved with her husband to the African countryside after the death of her parents. The newlywed couple bought a farm, named it Kudufontein, and set out to carve their own future. Marit is in charge of handling the accounts, correspondence, bills and wages, while her husband, Ben, runs all the other aspects related to the farm. Soon after the move, Marit starts to question the cleverness of this new enterprise, since she feels very lonely during the time Ben is out on the fields. Also, she is in fear of the war going on close by, on the country's border, where guerrillas are attacking farms to regain their God-given rights over the land.<br />As a way to find solace, Marit tries to establish a relationship with her maid, Grace, but is self-restricted by the racial barriers and customs she has observed and practiced all her life. When shortly afterwards Grace is killed in an accident, Marit starts to get closer to Tembi, Grace's daughter, and offers her the job as a maid. From this point on, several events develop, like the strengthening of apartheid and the reception of fatal news by Marit, which bring the two women closer together.<br />Lewis DeSoto scores high in his description of the effects of apartheid on people on both sides of the &quot;conflict&quot;, and the story has value in showing how race should not be a barrier in human relationships and friendship. However, he loses the reader's interest in several instances during the story, making finishing the book more a chore than a real pleasure. I hope that he perfects his writing abilities and delivers a better polished novel next time, since he has good ideas for the plot and just needs to improve in the execution.in several instances during the story, making finishing the book more a chore than a real pleasure. I hope that he perfects his writing abilities and delivers a better polished novel next time, since he has good ideas for the plot and just needs to improve in the execution.	2004-05-12
US	45042957	R3C695II9W2684	0064407667	25170610	The Bad Beginning (A Series of Unfortunate Events #1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is no fairy tale, but it is great anyway	Even though this is a book targeted to kids by its publisher, I think that the author wrote it considering a much broader audience. I would say that as Rowling did with \\"Harry Potter\\", Snicket will captivate people of all ages. A word of warning though, the author clearly states that this is an unhappy story and that if you do not like this you should not try to read it. He is not joking! The story is sad and every time there is a glimpse of hope, it is quickly quenched.<br />The three Baudelaire siblings are the main characters in this unhappy story. Violet is a fourteen-year-old who loves to think constantly about possible inventions. Klaus is twelve, intelligent and enjoys reading all kinds of books. Sunny is the little infant that is going through a biting stage and will go at anything with her four teeth. Everything starts out wrong right from the beginning, when the Baudelaire siblings, now orphans, find out that their parents died in a fire. They have a huge fortune, but they will not have access to it until Violet reaches adulthood. In the meantime, Mr. Poe, the executioner of the estate will manage the funds and take care of finding a place for the orphans to live in.<br />Violet, Klaus and Sunny end up living with Count Olaf, in a house that is a disaster and has a weird feeling about it. Also, they quickly realize that the Count's only interest is in the money they have and in nothing else. The kids are forced to take care of the house chores and only find solace in their friendly neighbor, Justice Strauss. But any glimpse at happiness is quickly extinguished by new terrible events. We even get a second warning by the author halfway through the book: \\"...people who hate stories in which terrible things happen to small children should put this book down immediately\\". However, my recommendation is: keep reading, you will not be disappointed.<br />The start of the series left me hooked and I will read the following books in the near future. I like the story, even with its sad tone, and enjoy the author's style. He has a humorous way of writing, defining obvious words and explaining some things that do not need explanations, even for kids. I think this is his way of satirizing some children's book that treat kids as if they were unable to comprehend simple matters. Moreover, there is a point in which he will start defining words using other words he defined before.<br />I am extremely satisfied with the experience of trying out this new author and would highly recommend it to people of all ages.y, even with its sad tone, and enjoy the author's style. He has a humorous way of writing, defining obvious words and explaining some things that do not need explanations, even for kids. I think this is his way of satirizing some children's book that treat kids as if they were unable to comprehend simple matters. Moreover, there is a point in which he will start defining words using other words he defined before. <br />I am extremely satisfied with the experience of trying out this new author and would highly recommend it to people of all ages.	2004-05-12
US	45042957	R1Y5CDHZN0F249	051513452X	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 4)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Werewolf or vampire, that is the question	Up until this point, the main character in the series, Anita Blake, has been staying away from love. Anita is an animator and vampire slayer, who has been wooed for quite some time by the master vampire of the city, Jean-Claude. On the previous book, &quot;The Circus of the Damned&quot;, we saw Anita moving away from the enchanting vampire to start searching for love in what she thought was a normal human. She was surprised when, after a vampire tore out the throat of his suitor, he did not die. Richard is a werewolf, and Anita is trying to reconcile this information with her own feelings for him. Anita's reluctant acceptance of love may have to do with the moment in time in which Laurell K. Hamilton wrote this book, since she was pregnant and delivered a baby girl named Trinity.<br />With each book, the reader gets a clearer idea about what the place in which Anita lives in is like. For example, we find out that there are creatures that we did not know existed in this world, like dragons, gargoyles and trolls. Also, we learn that discrimination against lycanthropes is illegal but existent nonetheless. In this case, everything starts when the husband of one particular lycanthrope shows up at Anita's office looking for help, since his wife is missing and he cannot go to the authorities for fear she will be fired if the &quot;secret&quot; comes out. In addition to this, Dolph, who works with the preternatural unit of the police department, summons Anita because there has been a murder of suspicious nature. Anita determines that the murder was committed by a shapeshifter, denomination that includes werewolves.<br />Besides the &quot;usual&quot; type of situations Anita faces, she has to deal with her relationship with Richard, and his battle for the leadership of the wolf pack with an alpha male called Marcus. Jean-Claude will not go away without a fight, and he is trying to get Anita to date him instead of the werewolf. To complete the picture, there is a female vampire that is in love with Jean Claude and thinks that the only way to get her prize is to eliminate her competition. Anita describes this situation perfectly: &quot;Bully for me!&quot;<br />Hamilton is perfecting a world and a character that grab the attention and the heart of the reader without letting go. As the story progresses, we learn more about Anita's past, her relationship with her mother, her previous experience with love, etc. Also, the reader comes to cherish some of the characters that at first seem unlikable, like Edward, the &quot;gun for hire&quot;. A friend told me that the series will get kinkier as it progresses, and I already saw this happen in this book, but this change in tone matches perfectly the mood of the main character. The truth is, I cannot get enough of Anita Blake!ire that is in love with Jean Claude and thinks that the only way to get her prize is to eliminate her competition. Anita describes this situation perfectly: &quot;Bully for me!&quot;<br />Hamilton is perfecting a world and a character that grab the attention and the heart of the reader without letting go. As the story progresses, we learn more about Anita's past, her relationship with her mother, her previous experience with love, etc. Also, the reader comes to cherish some of the characters that at first seem unlikable, like Edward, the &quot;gun for hire&quot;. A friend told me that the series will get kinkier as it progresses, and I already saw this happen in this book, but this change in tone matches perfectly the mood of the main character. The truth is, I cannot get enough of Anita Blake!	2004-05-11
US	45042957	R3BRO5BWEG1NYZ	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Martin has taken the epic fantasy genre to a new level	I am a huge fan of epic fantasy, but sometimes find myself wondering why so many authors make their stories so predictable. I was pleasantly surprised by a &quot;A Game of Thrones&quot;, since not only Martin's writing style is superior to most, the characters are complex and engaging, there is political intrigue, alliances and treason, but also because the author surprises the reader several times throughout the novel. There are plenty of twists and turns that add a great deal to the interest of the book, and the reader is kept on his toes by the death of characters that in other series would &quot;never die&quot;.<br />There is a considerable portion of the book in which the fantastic elements are very limited, with the story introducing more and more of these as it progresses. The &quot;world&quot; in which the epic unravels is composed by the Seven Kingdoms, protected on the north by The Wall, which is defended by the Night Watch to prevent &quot;mysterious creatures&quot; from invading. Winter is coming, and this is the time in which the Night Watch should be more alert. The length of the winter varies and is said to be proportional to that of the summer that preceded it; so this one is expected to be a very long one.<br />This first book focuses on two families, the Starks and the Lannisters. The former rule Winterfell, which is located in the North, and the later are related to King Robert through the marriage of their sister to the monarch. Eddard Stark is selected as Hand of the King by his friend Robert and has to go to court, leaving Winterfell under the control and supervision of his wife, Catelyn, and his eldest son, Robb. Eddard has two other sons; one of these is named Bran, who loves to climb and suffers an &quot;accident&quot; shortly before his father leaves. He also has two daughters, who are going to the court with him, and an illegitimate son, Jon, who has decided to join the Night Watch. The Lannisters are known for being conniving and for addressing their favors to whoever suits their purposes best. We are also introduced to the Tangaryen, which was the reigning house until King Robert won the throne. Viserys and his sister Daenerys, a maid of thirteen years, dream of recovering their previous grandeur and recover their throne.<br />George R. R. Martin uses the different characters' perspectives to tell the story, and succeeds in conveying the differences among them to the reader. He also combines with surgical precision all the different elements that make an outstanding epic fantasy. This book has political intrigue, conspiracies, unusual &quot;rules&quot;, magic, odd creatures and much more! In terms of the creatures, each house has its corresponding animal, and these become more and more important throughout the book.<br />It is clear to me that Martin has created something extraordinary, and I cannot wait to read the next book in the series. Especially since in the end of this one there is a huge surprise that leaves the reader with his mouth open and wondering what will come next.essing their favors to whoever suits their purposes best. We are also introduced to the Tangaryen, which was the reigning house until King Robert won the throne. Viserys and his sister Daenerys, a maid of thirteen years, dream of recovering their previous grandeur and recover their throne.<br />George R. R. Martin uses the different characters' perspectives to tell the story, and succeeds in conveying the differences among them to the reader. He also combines with surgical precision all the different elements that make an outstanding epic fantasy. This book has political intrigue, conspiracies, unusual &quot;rules&quot;, magic, odd creatures and much more! In terms of the creatures, each house has its corresponding animal, and these become more and more important throughout the book. <br />It is clear to me that Martin has created something extraordinary, and I cannot wait to read the next book in the series. Especially since in the end of this one there is a huge surprise that leaves the reader with his mouth open and wondering what will come next.	2004-05-06
US	45042957	R657N6GEBDC4F	0595303854	975803885	Flatlands	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent first book, looking forward to the next one!	In her first novel, Susan Sims Moody shines in her use of language and dialogue, and excels in describing life in a small Southern town, the particularities of its inhabitants, the characteristics of the different buildings and the prevailing culture. The dialogues the author presents are engaging, and she shows her knowledge on the topic she writes about.<br />Jennifer Martin returns to Mississippi after graduating summa cum laude from the College of Journalism in Madison, being unable to find a job and going broke. She was resigned to move back in with her parents, but on the way there she has car trouble and ends up receiving a stroke of good luck. When looking for help, she meets Devon and Charlotte Banks, and gets a job offer as a journalist for a small town newspaper, the Bedford Sentinel. The owners of the paper also offer her a house to stay in, and she quickly runs into an old acquaintance from the past, Davis, who is extremely willing to help her get settled. After moving into her new home, Jennifer finds out that in the past addicts used the place as a harbor to get high. Therefore, she starts getting uneasy when she sees people wandering around the house at night. From this point on, the events develop quickly, with our heroine getting a new \\"admirer\\", making a curious discovery and learning another disturbing fact about her home.<br />The book starts out at a rather slow pace, but the vivid descriptions and craftily created dialogues keep up the interest of the reader. It looked to me as if the author was setting this pace on purpose, to reflect the speed at which life develops in a small town in the Deep South. After this, the pace and intensity starts to pick up and the action reaches vertiginous speed towards the end, where the reader will face a stunning surprise. I am glad that I had the chance to read this book and I am looking forward to the next production by this author.	2004-05-02
US	45042957	R137JU0F9TMNNE	0425153789	101996312	Immortal in Death (In Death, Book 3)	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The futuristic series that captivates	At the end of the previous book, &quot;Glory in Death&quot;, Roarke proposed to Lieutenant Eve Dallas after they were both involved in a life-threatening situation with a dangerous killer. Nora Roberts, writing as J.D. Robb, shocks us right from the start of this book, when we find that Eve accepted the marriage proposal! For those of you that have read the previous novels, this must come as much of a surprise as it was for me. Eve has always had trouble accepting the fact that she was in love, so it was almost unthinkable that she would be willing to share her life with the billionaire Roarke. However, this sets the tone for the things to come in this book, where we will find out several interesting facts from Eve and Roarke's past. These tidbits of information help us make sense of the attitudes we witnessed from several of the main characters in the past.<br />This time, the crimes Eve has to investigate are very close to home. Eve's best friend, Mavis, has convinced her to consult with designer Leonardo about her wedding dress. Mavis is in a relationship with the designer, and facing a very jealous ex-girlfriend, Pandora, who is literally fighting to get Leonardo back. One night, Mavis calls Eve in a frantic state from Leonardo's study and asks for help. She had found Pandora, the supermodel with which she had a big fight hours ago, lifeless on the study floor. Eve sets out to find out the culprit and clear her friend. In the meantime, one of Eve's informants turns up dead too, and the investigation leads to a new and deadly drug.<br />Robb has created a wonderful setting for her mysteries, New York in the year 2058, and has perfected the mix with some great characters, making this one hell of series. In this particular case, besides the &quot;usual suspects&quot;, we are introduced to the character of detective Peabody, Eve's new partner after Feeney's promotion as captain of another division.<br />Even though I think there is a clear advantage of reading this series in order, and grasp the complexities and personal history of each character, the books stand well on their own. Moreover, J.D. Robb does a great job in describing the futuristic world efficiently through examples intertwined in the narration of the events, without making it boring for those of us who are already aware of what the &quot;rules&quot; are. Whether you try this book on its own or you start from the beginning of the series with &quot;Naked in Death&quot;, I can guarantee that you will enjoy reading about Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her friends.series in order, and grasp the complexities and personal history of each character, the books stand well on their own. Moreover, J.D. Robb does a great job in describing the futuristic world efficiently through examples intertwined in the narration of the events, without making it boring for those of us who are already aware of what the &quot;rules&quot; are. Whether you try this book on its own or you start from the beginning of the series with &quot;Naked in Death&quot;, I can guarantee that you will enjoy reading about Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her friends.	2004-04-18
US	45042957	R3CLO3P0A9BOZ7	0515134481	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	As Anita says: "Brownie point for Laurell Hamilton"	After the second book in the Anita Blake series I was hoping that the series would keep up its quality. That would have been more than enough for me, but I was surprised by a book that is even better than \\"The Laughing Corpse\\". Anita, the animator / vampire slayer / necromancer, returns in a fast-paced, riveting thriller that does not let the reader go, not even for a second. For those fans of the series, you will even find some new elements in this book, like a new creature called lumia, but I will let you find out for yourself what its \\"features\\" are.<br />After some rowdy encounters in the last episode, Anita finds herself contacted by Inger and Mr. Reubens, two former human against vampires (HAV) members who are now part of a more radical group. In the eve of a new era, where the legislators are considering giving vampires the right to vote, Reubens and Inger are looking to kill every vampire in USA, starting with the master of the city. Naturally, the master of the city is none other than Jean-Claude, the vampire who has marked Anita twice and only needs two more marks to convert her in his human servant. Anita refuses to help the former HAV members and as usual will face unorthodox persuasion methods. In the midst of this problem and in her capacity of police advisor on vampires, zombies and the like, Anita is faced with a murder victim that shows fang marks from several different vampires. This is a clear indication that there is a rogue master vampire on the loose and that he is extremely dangerous. There are a couple of vampires that fit the \\"description\\", including Jean-Claude and Malcolm, but there also are new guys in town!<br />There are a lot of connections to previous events in the series, and even though certain explanations are given to allow those the are encountering Anita for the first time to follow the story, it is much better if the reader is familiar with what happened in the past: Nikolaos, Phillip, Edward, Jean-Claude and the marks he gave Anita, etc. Compared to the previous books, I found that this one has more humorous moments and sexual tension, while maintaining the level of action and gore. For those that like vampire stories this is a series that you cannot afford to miss.Anita, etc. Compared to the previous books, I found that this one has more humorous moments and sexual tension, while maintaining the level of action and gore. For those that like vampire stories this is a series that you cannot afford to miss.	2004-04-12
US	45042957	RKA5APQ4WYK8	0380714000	374862959	Gallows View: The First Inspector Banks Mystery	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A very interesting main character does the trick	The main aspect that draws attention to this series is the character of inspector Banks. He lives in a small town in rural England and presents a very interesting picture in terms of his relationship with others, his inner conflicts and his personality. I find this extremely similar to what happens in the case of Henning Mankel's detective, Kurt Wallander, who also lives in a small town and whose life is a little &quot;messier&quot; than Bank's. In both cases, the rest of the plot is almost secondary, with the mystery being mainly an accessory for showing the traits in the main character. However, Peter Robinson does a better job in entertaining the reader and in keeping his attention.<br />In this first novel in the series, Alan Banks faces three cases simultaneously. The first one deals with a Peeping Tom that makes his appearances after following his victims from pubs. The second one has to do with a series of break-ins into houses of old ladies who live alone. The third and last case is more serious; an old lady was murdered in what looks like an accident after the perpetrator pushed her back. Banks is in charge of untangling the web of mysteries, since there are possible connections among the cases. On top of this, the inspector has to deal with his feelings towards Dr. Jenny Fuller, a psychologist that was brought in by the police department to help in the case of the peeper. The question is: Will Banks be able to solve the cases, while managing to keep his relationship with Jenny from ruining his marriage?<br />Robinson has created one of the most likable characters I have seen in a long time; and even though the mysteries are straightforward, the author manages to deliver a couple of surprises along the way. This is one of those books you can read in a few hours, and it fulfills what I think his purpose is, deliver a cozy mystery that keeps the reader entertained.	2004-04-11
US	45042957	R1HY5CWTQPU8GG	074344454X	942066894	Nine	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Jan Burke never ceases to amaze	I am a big fan of the Irene Kelly series and at first was a little reticent of reading a novel by Jan Burke that did not have Irene as the main character. Luckily I discovered that my fears were completely unfounded and that the quality of this novel is as good as the rest of Burke's work, if not better.<br />Four young men are the main participants in a group called Project Nine, whose mission is to take justice into their own hands by killing the criminals that are listed in the FBI's Most Wanted list. The members of the group are all former Sedgewick students, which is a school well known for harboring rich kids who have had problems in various areas (school, trouble with police, etc). The murderers use a very distinct method, and detective Alex Brandon finds clear similarities with a previous case in his career. The killer in that prior case ended up being murdered by his stepson, Kit, who was only eleven years at that time.<br />The author not only presents a highly interesting and complex plot in terms of the reasons behind the actions of the characters, but also does an amazing job in depicting Alex and Kit, and also in intertwining elements of their personal life into the story. Each time I grab a book written by Jan Burke I find myself surprised not only by the highly entertaining stories she creates, but also by the outstanding quality of her writing. This is probably why she has won numerous prizes, including the prestigious Edgar Award. This work has convinced me: besides waiting for the next Irene Kelly novel, I will grab anything this author writes!	2004-04-02
US	45042957	R1X7YDTLWKJU6L	0553586688	244987518	The Lion of Senet (The Second Sons Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	42	48	N	N	A brilliant new fantasy trilogy	Many consider Tolkien's masterpiece, The Lord of the Rings, the benchmark to which every other epic fantasy work is compared. The first book in The Second Sons Trilogy leaves the reader with the impression that this series will receive top marks in that scale. Jennifer Fallon creates a craftily depicted world with characters the reader will love or hate with passion. I became so engrossed in the story that I could not put this book down until I finished it.<br />Ranadon once again has two suns surging through its sky, but its inhabitants have suffered greatly in the past when one of the suns disappeared and the Age of Shadows began. The High Priestess, Belagren, with the help of a great mathematician, Neris, discovered the secrets about the Age of Shadows, which is a natural phenomenon that depends on the orbits of the suns. In her eagerness for power, Belagren used this information to her advantage and claimed that the Goddess spoke to her and told her exactly were the sun would return, granted that certain sacrifices were made. It all worked out, and Belagren gained considerable power through this stratagem. However, Neris sealed the secrets inside a deadly Labyrinth, and threw himself off a cliff, presumably dying.<br />In her need to know when the next Age of Shadows will return, so as to prove her communication with the Goddess, Belagren convinced the Lion of Senet, ruthless ruler of the strongest kingdom in Ranadon, to search for Neris because she suspects the genius is still alive. Meanwhile, in the kingdom of Dhevyn, which is &quot;controlled&quot; by Senet, the second son of Duchess Mirna of Elcast is being trained to be a physician. He is a bright boy and is thrown in the middle of the action when the Lion of Senet and Belagren arrive to Elcast looking for a very special prisoner, who was left unconscious in the coast after a tidal wave made his vessel the victim of a shipwreck.<br />The plot is complex but easy to understand, with religion and politics cleverly intertwined in a mix that achieves a similar effect on the reader to the one &quot;Dune&quot; accomplishes. There are many characters, but with the help of the character list and the masterful descriptions the author elaborates, it is reasonably easy to keep track of them. I would recommend following the story closely with the map provided, at least until the reader gets a clear idea of the geographical location of the different places mentioned. This will make the book a lot more enjoyable and easy to follow. Finally, an extra benefit in this trilogy is that it is already written in its entirety, thus, there is no need to wait a long time for the next two installments, which have already been published in Australia and New Zealand. If you like epic fantasy I highly recommend you read this book and discover what Fallon has to offer.leverly intertwined in a mix that achieves a similar effect on the reader to the one &quot;Dune&quot; accomplishes. There are many characters, but with the help of the character list and the masterful descriptions the author elaborates, it is reasonably easy to keep track of them. I would recommend following the story closely with the map provided, at least until the reader gets a clear idea of the geographical location of the different places mentioned. This will make the book a lot more enjoyable and easy to follow. Finally, an extra benefit in this trilogy is that it is already written in its entirety, thus, there is no need to wait a long time for the next two installments, which have already been published in Australia and New Zealand. If you like epic fantasy I highly recommend you read this book and discover what Fallon has to offer.	2004-03-30
US	45042957	RBLEQKWBKRHXK	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Surprisingly entertaining	I have heard so many good comments about this book, that I decided I had to read it, even though I feared that it may be a little bit boring by giving too many details on the Roman aqueducts. What I found instead was a highly entertaining story, which merges historical facts with fiction in a well thought out way. It is clear that the author went through great trouble to research the topics: aqueducts, volcanoes, Roman civilization, etc; and he presents the information proficiently and without losing the reader in the myriad of facts. Some of the findings exposed are incredible; for example, in the first century AD the Roman Aqueducts supplied Rome with more water than New York received in 1985!<br />The story starts two days before the eruption of the Vesuvius and focuses on Attilius and Ampliatus. Attilius is an engineer in charge of the Aqua Augusta, an aqueduct in the south of the Campania, which provides the cities of Pompeii, Nola, Neapolis, Puteolis, Cumae, Baiae and Misenum with their water supply. Attilius comes from a long line of engineers, notable for their work with the aqueducts. Ampliatus is a liberated slave who has become extremely wealthy after taking advantage of the destruction of Pompeii by an earthquake seventeen years ago.<br />At the beginning of the book we find Attilius looking for additional sources of water due to the drought that is affecting the Aqua Augusta. In one of his errands he is interrupted by a young lady, Corelia, asking him for help because her father is punishing a slave that was in charge of feeding his red mullets. Corelia's father is Ampliatus, and upon arrival Attilius discovers that the fish were killed because the water from the aqueduct is contaminated with sulfur. At this point the aqueduct's engineer embarks in a journey to Pompeii, where the suspected failure is located, to find the source of the problem and fix it.<br />Even though the action is not fast-paced through most of the book in terms of the writing, Harris makes the plot so interesting that the reader is drawn to the story as a scrap of metal to a magnet. There is a very impressive presentation of the aqueducts of Rome as well as of the main traits of the civilization, its politics and the interaction between the different social strata. As most stories dealing with the Roman Empire, this one does not lack in conspiracies and betrayal. It is impressive that the book has such a high level of suspense and tension considering that the reader knows what is going to happen in terms of the eruption of the Vesuvius. This is the first Robert Harris's book I read, but it definitely woke an interest in me to read his previous works.rris makes the plot so interesting that the reader is drawn to the story as a scrap of metal to a magnet. There is a very impressive presentation of the aqueducts of Rome as well as of the main traits of the civilization, its politics and the interaction between the different social strata. As most stories dealing with the Roman Empire, this one does not lack in conspiracies and betrayal. It is impressive that the book has such a high level of suspense and tension considering that the reader knows what is going to happen in terms of the eruption of the Vesuvius. This is the first Robert Harris's book I read, but it definitely woke an interest in me to read his previous works.	2004-03-23
US	45042957	R1U30N26STQLR2	0553276328	432974833	Pacific Vortex (Dirk Pitt Adventure)	Books	4	47	51	N	N	I am happy I discovered this series!	I have never been a big fan of military thrillers. The only author I read regularly in this genre is Nelson DeMille and I enjoy him a lot, so I decided to give Clive Cussler a try. I am happy to say I was not disappointed! Even though &quot;Pacific Vortex&quot; was not the first published book in the Dirk Pitt adventures series, it was the first Cussler wrote, so logically, this is the novel I picked to start my journey. I found an interesting character that lives at the edge and is passionate about his work. Also in some aspects he is similar to James Bond, women mainly, and the mix is sufficient to keep the reader thoroughly entertained.<br />For six months the US government has been trying to find the Starbuck, a submarine lost in the Hawaiian (Pacific) vortex. This is an area similar to the well-known Bermuda Triangle. The submarine was lost on its maiden trial and possesses the most advanced equipment, in terms of nuclear capabilities, that the US has developed so far. The last known communication from the nuclear submarine came from captain Dupree, establishing that they were lost without possibilities of recovering themselves and giving the coordinates of their location. While in his holidays in the coast of Hawaii, Dirk finds a communications capsule from the Starbuck addressed to Admiral Hunter in Pearl Harbor. Thus, he is directly involved in the search for the submarine and starts a dangerous journey in which he will face different enemies, conspiracies and uncertainty about who to trust. He also meets a mysterious woman, Summer, who will rock his world and complicate matters further.<br />Cussler has created a very entertaining series, with a character that has an arrogant and pedantic side, but whom also shows his pure emotions and is true to his friends and ideals. This makes the Special Project Director of the National Underwater and Marine Agency a very likable character. This is a book that a reader can breeze through in a few hours making it an enjoyable way to spend a weekend's afternoon. I will surely read the next book in this series hoping for a similar experience.oyable way to spend a weekend's afternoon. I will surely read the next book in this series hoping for a similar experience.	2004-03-22
US	45042957	R2SAU7DV7GBHLH	0743480511	300388849	Eighteen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great collection of stories by one of my favorite writers	I am a big fan of the Irene Kelly series and have always enjoyed reading the work of Jan Burke. She has a very special ability in getting the reader immersed in her stories, this being one of the reasons why she has won so many writing awards. In this collection of stories she displays her ability with confidence, taking the reader through a myriad of experiences.<br />I evaluated each story individually, and all of them received a rating between four and five stars, with the average being 4.5. Eight of the stories received five stars from me:<br />1) The Mouse: Looks at how things are for kids in school, how peer pressure may prevent someone from being proud of her actions, and how this changes in adulthood.<br />2) Revised Endings: Harriet feels miserable when she is assigned a new editor, who is obnoxious and demands changes in the ending of her latest novel.<br />3) Ghost of a Chance: A ghost visits a woman shortly after the death of her husband, who was murdered on a shooting by.<br />4) Unharmed: In this story, winner of the Readers Award from Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine and the Macavity Award, Alex recounts the death of a woman calibrating his involvement in it.<br />5) Mea Culpa: A boy tries to deal with the death of his father in a car accident and with a confession he listens his stepfather make acknowledging he wants to abandon the kid's mother.<br />6) An Unsuspected Condition of the Heart: Rossiter writes a letter in which he relates the vicissitudes he went through when he found Lord Dallingham on the road with his phaeton overturned.<br />7) The Abbey Ghost: In this Edgar Award Nominee story, Edward and Lucien scare their bad side of the family away using the legend of a ghost protecting a treasure in the abbey over which their castle was built. Years later when one of them dies, he becomes a &quot;real ghost&quot; in order to help the other one in dealing with a murderer.<br />8) Devotion: Frank Harriman, Irene Kelly's husband, along with some of the characters from &quot;Bones&quot; takes part in this story where a young boy goes missing after his father is murdered.<br />Besides the eight stories listed above, the collection includes the first Irene Kelly short story, &quot;A fine set of teeth&quot; and an Agatha Award nominee, &quot;The man in the civil suit&quot;. Jan Burke displays an amazing variety in the stories, dealing with different time periods, types of characters, plots and viewpoints. This is a collection of stories you cannot miss! - 4.5 starsfrom &quot;Bones&quot; takes part in this story where a young boy goes missing after his father is murdered.<br />Besides the eight stories listed above, the collection includes the first Irene Kelly short story, &quot;A fine set of teeth&quot; and an Agatha Award nominee, &quot;The man in the civil suit&quot;. Jan Burke displays an amazing variety in the stories, dealing with different time periods, types of characters, plots and viewpoints. This is a collection of stories you cannot miss! - 4.5 stars	2004-03-15
US	45042957	R2AKAELJIGVBTO	0553801945	635540633	The Game	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Intrigue in an exotic place	Shortly after the First World War, in 1924, the Labour party has triumphed in England and as a result rumors about what the future will bring are abundant, creating an ambiance of political turmoil. In this setting, Mary Russell and her husband, the famous Sherlock Holmes, travel to London to visit Mycroft, whose health has deteriorated and is cause for concern. Upon arrival Mary and Holmes are presented with three documents Mycroft had received: a soldier's clearance certificate, an original enlistment and a birth certificate. These three items relate to none other then Kim O'Hara, the famous character of Kipling's book. Several rumors about Kim reached England, including that he is held prisoner by a maharaja and that he got ill and died.<br />Mycroft is worried about the possibility that O'Hara is using the Russians as a tool to free India and since he &quot;cannot&quot; travel, because of his health, he asks his brother and Mary to travel to India on his behalf and unravel the mystery. During the trip to India, Mary establishes a relationship with Sunny Goodheart, who is accompanied by her mother and her mysterious brother Tom. Holmes starts suspecting right away that there is something wrong about Tom and they follow him to the land of the maharaja of Khanpur where further events develop.<br />Laurie King presents an exotic land, where people practice sports like pig sticking and maharajas rule at their wanting and can indulge every desire they or their guests have. On top of this, the author throws in a mystery to complete the mix.<br />The second half of the novel is very good, with a good pace and events that are unfolding constantly keeping the reader interested. The beginning of the novel is very slow though, and the journey to India is excessively detailed without any clear point. Even though there are amazingly vivid descriptions of places, people and food, it is still not clear to me what is the objective of spending almost half the book in describing the odyssey to India.<br />What I think the novel lacks is the usual deductive work Holmes and Russell are involved in. Instead the novel is more an adventure with spies involved, than a mystery involving the celebrated British detective and his sharp wife. Overall, the book is good, but in my opinion the quality has decreased considerably when compared to the first book in the series. For those of you that have been following this series since its beginning, I recommend you read this one too, but try not to have very high hopes. For those of you that are not acquainted with the series I would recommend that instead of this book you read &quot;The Beekeeper's Apprentice&quot;.the odyssey to India. <br />What I think the novel lacks is the usual deductive work Holmes and Russell are involved in. Instead the novel is more an adventure with spies involved, than a mystery involving the celebrated British detective and his sharp wife. Overall, the book is good, but in my opinion the quality has decreased considerably when compared to the first book in the series. For those of you that have been following this series since its beginning, I recommend you read this one too, but try not to have very high hopes. For those of you that are not acquainted with the series I would recommend that instead of this book you read &quot;The Beekeeper's Apprentice&quot;.	2004-03-02
US	45042957	RZLGMAE23F805	0385337132	625732713	The 37th Hour	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An OK debut for Jodi Compton	Although this novel does not achieve what the publisher claims in the dust jacket, a thriller impossible to put down, it is clear to me that the writer has talent and will probably deliver a much better work given another chance.<br />Sarah Pribeck is a detective that cares about her job, finding missing persons. She has been out of a partner since Genevieve's daughter was raped and murdered and the killer got away on a technicality. Genevieve is having a really tough time dealing with her daughter's loss and Sarah finds herself disoriented when her husband, Shiloh, disappears on the weekend he was supposed to travel to Quantico, to start the FBI program as a new trainee. Through the first moments of the search we realize how important Genevieve is to Sarah, since the latter keeps going back to the tips and recommendations the former provided in the past. With the time running against her and without being able to convince Genevieve to help, Sarah finds herself taking a plunge into Shiloh's past in the search for clues to solve the mysterious disappearance, finding a myriad of things she did not know about the man she has been married to for two months.<br />There are several things that Compton does astoundingly well; for example the description of the characters and their emotions. I also find interesting the fact that the author focuses on creating a thriller with no romantic undertones; one can get tired of the formula used by many in which a female heroine is drawn to a &quot;strong male&quot; in the setting of a mystery thriller. Where I find a major flaw is in the way that the story is structured, the action keeps stopping for long intervals to go back to events from the past, which in my opinion severely cuts the intensity the book has. With the quality of her writing and the good development of the characters, the author can reach much higher heights that the one she achieved in this first novel.	2004-02-29
US	45042957	R6T27UM1JJKDJ	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Children make everything simple	After reading this book I find it completely reasonable that Harper Lee was awarded the Pulitzer Prize, and several other prizes, and that librarians across the United States have selected this book as the best novel of the twentieth century. It is also understandable that Harper Lee did not write any other novel after this one; she had already created a perfect one and there was no real room to improve! The aspect I loved most about this book is how it shows that when children are allowed to think by themselves, without being prejudiced by the opinion of the adults, they see everything crystal clear.<br />Lee has created a literary masterpiece with so many remarkable aspects that one feels threatened to comment on them for fear of leaving out important ones; I will try nonetheless to point out at least a couple of them. The story revolves around the experiences of Scout, who is the one telling the story. She is a little girl whose father is assigned as the defense attorney of a black young man falsely accused of raping a white girl. The main lesson the book disseminates and the one that is easiest to grasp is that racism is destructive and has no reason to exist in our society. If you consider that the book was written in 1960, this is not a minor point, but on the contrary it is a very powerful statement. Even nowadays, we have a long way to go towards accepting that someone's skin color is completely irrelevant. Although this problem has been reduced considerably other forms of discrimination still exist and should be eradicated.<br />It is uplifting to see a father like Atticus Finch, who is raising two kids by himself, after losing his wife, and is doing a splendid job at it. Not only he differs from the norm at the time because he never hits his children, but he also tries not to influence their ideas of what is wrong and right. Instead of promoting hatred in Scout and Jem against the people that are racist and unfair, he tries to teach them tolerance to understand that these individuals are acting mostly out of fear. Throughout the story one can observe how the two siblings go from considering Atticus an old man who could not play football with other dads to seeing him as a hero with outstanding values. Jem describes this perfectly: &quot;Atticus is a gentleman, just like me&quot;.<br />I can understand why this book has been selected as part of the required readings in high school, and also why a lot of kids, finding it difficult to read, do not particularly enjoy it. To those of you that have a bitter recollection of this book and are now adults, I urge you to reread it and I guarantee that you will see clearly that it was worth it. If you are reading the book for high school, try to understand what the society was like in 1960 and you will enjoy this chore a lot more. Finally, I just have to say that I feel privileged for having read &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot;, even though nobody ever forced me to do so.stand that these individuals are acting mostly out of fear. Throughout the story one can observe how the two siblings go from considering Atticus an old man who could not play football with other dads to seeing him as a hero with outstanding values. Jem describes this perfectly: &quot;Atticus is a gentleman, just like me&quot;.<br />I can understand why this book has been selected as part of the required readings in high school, and also why a lot of kids, finding it difficult to read, do not particularly enjoy it. To those of you that have a bitter recollection of this book and are now adults, I urge you to reread it and I guarantee that you will see clearly that it was worth it. If you are reading the book for high school, try to understand what the society was like in 1960 and you will enjoy this chore a lot more. Finally, I just have to say that I feel privileged for having read &quot;To Kill a Mockingbird&quot;, even though nobody ever forced me to do so.	2004-02-26
US	45042957	R2WDHXUJBPZTKK	0399151273	890960277	Retribution	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"Punishment considered morally right and deserved"	Jilliane Hoffman's first novel delivers what it promises, a fast-paced, riveting legal thriller that finds you reading late at night without letting you go. Although the novel is not the best I have read this year, it still is a very good first effort. Hoffman has some characteristics in her writing style that I found extremely interesting, like narrating the same event from the different perspective of the characters involved, and her knowledge of the legal system adds a \\"reality\\" touch to an otherwise highly unlikely plot. Nevertheless, it is important to bear in mind that this is fiction, and the author has latitude in how believable the story is.<br />The novel starts in 1988 in New York City, where we find Chloe taking a night off from studying for the bar exam to go out with her fiance in their anniversary in hopes that he will pop the big question. After the night does not go as she expected, she returns alone to her home and is raped savagely all through the night by a stranger in a clown mask. Twelve years later in Miami, Chloe is working as an assistant state attorney and has changed her name to C.J. Townsend. The police are in the track of a serial killer that kidnaps and murders young women taking their hearts out. When a suspect is taken into custody, CJ finds herself prosecuting the man that raped her twelve years earlier.<br />Hoffman does a very good job in describing what goes through the mind of a rape victim, the fear, anger, insecurity, etc. I think though, that she is somewhat repetitive in the description of the rape itself, going back to it several times throughout the novel without any real need to do so. Also, at some points the author loses some of the reader's interest, but luckily she recovers quickly and delivers a pretty good book overall. One of the most distinguishable features that elevate the quality of this work is the depth the characters have, and the ability of Hoffman to present their inner conflicts in an interesting way. Finally, I feel the need to point out a minor annoying issue; throughout the novel, Hoffman refers to cell phones by a brand name, which bothered me every time I faced this nomenclature.<br />Overall, Hoffman appears as a very promising author and I am looking forward to her next novel. If she can fix the minor aspects I have pointed out, I think she will be among the best in the genre.lly, I feel the need to point out a minor annoying issue; throughout the novel, Hoffman refers to cell phones by a brand name, which bothered me every time I faced this nomenclature. <br />Overall, Hoffman appears as a very promising author and I am looking forward to her next novel. If she can fix the minor aspects I have pointed out, I think she will be among the best in the genre.	2004-02-21
US	45042957	R2QNTIBA2VATLS	0713477253	758232170	Blackmar-Diemer Gambit	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Very good introductory book to this opening	I have never heard about the Blackmar-Diemer gambit until one day when browsing the chess books in a tournament I found this book. I have always liked attacking chess, so I was intrigued by the book's description: &quot;...the Blackmar-Diemer gives White very dangerous attacking chances, and Black must know a precise defence to come out of the opening alive.&quot; I could not pass up this opportunity, so I decided to give it a try.<br />Gary Lane does a very good job in explaining the different main variations and in each you will get a clear idea of the strategy you have to use in your attack. The main variations covered after 1.d4 d5 2.e4 dxe4 3.Nc3 Nf6 4.f3 exf3 5.Nxf3 are: the Euwe Defense (5...e6), the Bogoljubow Defense (5...g6), the Tartakower-Gunderam Defense (5...Bf5), the Teichman Defense (5...Bg4), the Ziegler Defense (5...c6). Other variations include the Ryder Gambit, in which white takes on f3 with the queen instead of the knight; black has to be well prepared for this gambit too, but I did not find a lot of analysis for the white side on this book. In the Vienna Defense instead of taking the pawn on f3 right away, black plays 4...Bf5. Besides these lines, the author presents lines in which black returns the pawn and another gambit line for white which does not really belong in the Blackmar-Diemer complex, the Hubsch Gambit (5.Bc4).<br />There is sufficient information on each line for white to be prepared better than black in most cases, but if you find a player that has defended against the gambit many times and has a favorite pet line well studied you may run into problems. Since I adopted this opening as my main attacking weapon with white, I had to get a more book that went into more depth in each of the variations mentioned above. That is why I got &quot;The Blackmar-Diemer Gambit: Keybook II&quot; by Tim Sawyer, which has lot more analysis but does not explain the ideas as clearly as Lane's book. Therefore, the two books together make the perfect combination.<br />I would recommend this book if you are in one of the following situations: a) you are looking for a new opening with white and would like to give the Blackmar-Diemer a try. If you decide you like it, you can go forward with the Sawyer book to have a more complete reference. b) you are a player that opens with 1.e4 and has trouble facing the Scandinavian Defense (1...d5); this book may help you surprise your opponents without spending a lot of time studying the variations for an opening you will play from time to time. Actually, at the moment I am in the process of switching to 1.e4 but I will continue to play the Blackmar-Diemer against the Scandinavian.ct combination.<br />I would recommend this book if you are in one of the following situations: a) you are looking for a new opening with white and would like to give the Blackmar-Diemer a try. If you decide you like it, you can go forward with the Sawyer book to have a more complete reference. b) you are a player that opens with 1.e4 and has trouble facing the Scandinavian Defense (1...d5); this book may help you surprise your opponents without spending a lot of time studying the variations for an opening you will play from time to time. Actually, at the moment I am in the process of switching to 1.e4 but I will continue to play the Blackmar-Diemer against the Scandinavian.	2004-02-19
US	45042957	R3FET95RYECZOT	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Better than his last two books  3.5 stars	In his last two books &quot;Bleachers&quot; and &quot;The king of Torts&quot;, Grisham explored other genres of writing. The former evolves around reminiscences of a high school football team and the latter has to do with big shot lawyers (this is closer to a legal thriller, but not quite there). Neither of these novels was very good, and it seems that the author understood that he should go back to what he does best, writing legal thrillers. &quot;The Last juror&quot; would have been great if he had stuck to this approach. After a very interesting and fast-paced Part One, in which he describes the trial vividly grabbing the reader's attention without letting go, the quality of the novel declines abruptly in Part Two and only recovers somewhat in the last part.<br />The storyteller, Willie Frayner, is a journalist that starts an internship at The Ford County Times after his studies are cut short by his grandmother's decision of stopping the flow of money she was providing. The paper soon gets into financial trouble, goes bankrupt, and Willie convinces his grandma to give him $50,000 to buy it. At about this time Danny Padgitt rapes and kills Rhoda Kassellaw, mother of two little children, and there are enough witnesses and evidence to build a clear-cut case. Nevertheless, the killer belongs to one of the most powerful families in the area; family feared by many because of the way they had disposed of their &quot;problems&quot; in the past. The Times, under Willie's lead, sets out in an uncompromising and daring coverage of the trial and every aspect of the case that shows the &quot;special treatment&quot; the accused receives. This creates a dangerous situation for Willie, who is clearly playing with fire.<br />As it usually happens in Grisham books, the story presents the reader with a shocking view of the social and racial inequalities that existed in Mississippi in 1970, which from my point of view gives a significant added value to the book. In this environment, Willie establishes a very special relationship with a black woman that has an extraordinary family; seven out of eight siblings are college professors in a time in which inequalities are abundant. Even the eighth one is on its way to achieve similar feats, but he has found some added difficulties in his past. Of course, the events regarding this family will be intertwined with the main story.<br />As a final comment, I would recommend you not to read the description provided in the dust jacket, which in my opinion contains a huge plot spoiler. It would be better to find out what happens in the trial and afterwards by yourself., Willie establishes a very special relationship with a black woman that has an extraordinary family; seven out of eight siblings are college professors in a time in which inequalities are abundant. Even the eighth one is on its way to achieve similar feats, but he has found some added difficulties in his past. Of course, the events regarding this family will be intertwined with the main story.<br />As a final comment, I would recommend you not to read the description provided in the dust jacket, which in my opinion contains a huge plot spoiler. It would be better to find out what happens in the trial and afterwards by yourself.	2004-02-16
US	45042957	R292T3QF4LOVQ	0805029362	225817873	The King's Indian for the Attacking Player (Batsford Chess Library) (Openings)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Versatility for your repertoire!	I have been playing the King's Indian against 1.d4 for about three years. I started out using the lines suggested by Gufeld in his book &quot;The Art of the King's Indian&quot;. After a few months I found out that I usually ended up in uncomfortable positions in some of the lines. For example, I had huge problems getting effective counterplay in the now very popular line 1.d4 Nf6 2.c4 g6 3.Nc3 Bg7 4.e4 d6 5.Nf3 0-0 6.Be2 e5 7.0-0 Nc6 8.d5 Ne7 9.b4!<br />Luckily I found Burgess's book, which provided me with more active lines and turned out to improve my results considerably against this queen pawn opening. The book also covers the Classical Lines, including the one mentioned above, but it gives Black extra weapons to vary from this line if you find it awkward. Several of the variations are crafted around the idea of developing the knight through a6 instead of c6. For example, one alternative in the Classical Variation would be to play 6...Na6!?<br />The other great idea I found in this book is the pawn sacrifice against the Samisch Variation. After browsing through the book and seeing this line, I played through the variations in a study session. A couple of weeks after, I was playing in a blitz tournament against a player with a rating of 2100 (I was 1800) and he played the Samisch. I decided to give the pawn sacrifice a try and won convincingly. After the game he told me that he always had trouble with that line. Needless to say that I have also lost countless games playing the pawn sacrifice, but at least it is fun to play and gives Black great opportunities for counterattack.<br />I have found this book a lot more useful than Gufeld's, and the very few weak points it has, can be complemented by &quot;The Art of the King's Indian&quot; or by &quot;Bronstein on the King's Indian&quot;. Overall, I give the book 4.5 stars!	2004-02-11
US	45042957	R1V1D5KAZV4IH8	0765307006	554998165	The Codex	Books	4	60	67	N	N	Saved from boredom!	After a business meeting ended earlier than expected and not finding any earlier flights out of Dallas, I was facing an eight-hour wait in the airport. I spent some time eating in one of the restaurants there, but after that there wasn't much else to do. Luckily I had this book with me! Time flew by while I was immersed in the story that took me through the jungle in Honduras.<br />Maxwell Broadbent summons his three sons to his house to talk about their inheritance because he is a dying victim of cancer and has a collection of art and jewels worth half a billion dollars. When Phil, Tom and Vernon get there they find no sign of their father or of the valuable collection. What they do find is a video in which Max explains that he has done a bad job as a father and that as a result his kids have no goals other than wait for their inheritance. Therefore, he has sealed himself in a tomb somewhere in the world with his collection and his sons will have to find him if they want their inheritance. This is supposed to teach them independence, the value of work, self-reliance and how to take care of each other. From this point on, a race that involves the brothers, the police officers that were in the house investigating the &quot;theft&quot; and Maxwell's previous partner in treasure hunting.<br />The participants in the quest soon find out that one of the items in the collection is a Mayan Codex that contains the secrets resulting from centuries of experimenting with plants and animals found in the jungle. The value of this work is priceless, especially for pharmaceutical companies, which spend millions in research and development. The situation starts getting more and more dangerous as all these elements come into play and the fast-paced action will grab you and not let go until the end. This story has it almost all, action, suspense, love, dismay, hope, betrayal and even humor!<br />The only weak point I found is that the author was careless in some Spanish expressions he used throughout the book. For example he uses &quot;Veinte cuatros&quot; instead of &quot;Veinticuatros&quot; or &quot;Buenos tardes&quot; instead of &quot;Buenas tardes&quot;. Anyway, this is a very minor issue and the book is really great. The reason why I gave the book four stars instead of five is that the story line is not very original. However, if I were you I would not hesitate to give this book a try!he used throughout the book. For example he uses &quot;Veinte cuatros&quot; instead of &quot;Veinticuatros&quot; or &quot;Buenos tardes&quot; instead of &quot;Buenas tardes&quot;. Anyway, this is a very minor issue and the book is really great. The reason why I gave the book four stars instead of five is that the story line is not very original. However, if I were you I would not hesitate to give this book a try!	2004-02-08
US	45042957	R1MWTTTP5ZZBGO	0515134449	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I stand corrected!	After reading the first book in this series, &quot;Guilty Pleasures&quot;, I decided that Hamilton was a good writer, but that if somebody wanted to read novels about vampires they should try Anne Rice first. Now that I have read the second book in the series I realize that Hamilton is clearly among the best in the genre.<br />Anita Blake has a job unlike anyone else, she is an animator and vampire slayer.  Therefore, she raises the dead and executes vampires that have broken the law (vampirism on itself is legal in USA). Anita's physical appearance is peculiar considering her job; her height is five foot three inches and she weighs a hundred and six pounds! She also has a black belt in judo and has been marked twice by the master vampire of the city, Jean Claude, who is in love with her.<br />In this installment of the series, Anita is offered one million dollars, by one of the most wealthy and powerful men in the city, to raise a two-hundred-and-eighty-three-year-old zombie; task that requires a human sacrifice. After she denies doing this, half of her problems begin. The other half has to do with the gruesome murder of a couple and the disappearance of their child. It is clear that the murderer is not human, but...is it a vampire, ghoul, zombie? Anita sets out to help the police in their investigation and ends up requesting the assistance of Se&ntilde;ora Salvador, the most powerful voodoo priestess in the Midwest.<br />The different story lines come together to make a highly entertaining book. For those who have read the first book in the series you will also get a glimpse of some further aspects of Anita's past, like information about her mother and grandmother and some &quot;secrets&quot; about her tutor during her first steps as an animator. The action is fast-paced and Anita usually refreshes the mood with witty jokes and comments in situations that are definitely gruesome.<br />I really cannot wait to read the next book in the series, &quot;Circus of the Damned&quot;.&quot;.	2004-02-07
US	45042957	RKKEQNSQZN7JI	185744227X	667275399	Caro-Kann Main Line (Everyman Chess)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Good at conveying ideas, but not a complete reference	If you are looking for a book that explains what the strategic and tactical ideas are in the Caro-Kann main line (1.e4 c6 2.d4 d5 3.Nc3 [or 3.Nd2] dxe4 4.Nxe4), then this will be a book that will fulfill your expectations. It is not though a book to which you can go to find every variation you will face.<br />Since I am playing mainly correspondence chess, and the use of chess books is allowed in this mode, I am usually disappointed when I go to this book trying to find a specific line and find that the line is missing. The Caro-Kann is a very complex opening, with several fine points, making the need for thoroughness in analyzing all possible lines even more pronounced that in other cases, where ideas are almost enough.<br />I have also noticed that even though the back cover of the book claims that the author offers an analysis from both white's and black's viewpoints, there is a marked emphasis on how to play when handling the white pieces. This is fine with me because I do not play the Caro-Kann with black, but if you are a player that uses this defense then you may be disappointed.<br />The book is organized in three main sections: the Smyslov System (4...Nd7), the Classical System (4...Bf5) and systems with 4...Nf6. I would have liked to see more depth in the analysis in the last group, since I am finding an increasing number of players going for this line.<br />To sum up, if you are a player that plays the white side of the Caro-Kann and is looking to understand the ideas in this opening, then this is definitely your book. If instead you play the Caro-Kann with black and/or are looking for a complete reference for this opening, you will be somewhat disappointed.	2004-02-07
US	45042957	R3N15S3VBZ441B	080504731X	84799529	Beating the Flank Openings (Batsford Chess Library)	Books	2	17	24	N	N	Watch out, not a complete repertoire against Flank Openings!	About two years ago I decided that the level at which I was playing, Class A USCF, demanded a systematized opening repertoire if I wanted to keep climbing in rating. I set out to do this and started playing with black the Sicilian Accelerated Dragon against 1.e4, the King's Indian against 1.d4 and the Symmetrical English (which can transpose into some variations of the Accelerated Dragon) against 1.c4. At this point I needed some help with my variations against 1.b4, 1.b3, 1.g3, 1.g4 and 1.f4, although it is fair to say that some of this can transpose into the previous mentioned openings. For example, 1.g3 a lot of times transpose into the King's Indian fianchetto variation.<br />I started looking for a book that could help by giving a comprehensive repertoire against the flank openings. I was delighted when I found &quot;Beating the Flank Openings&quot;, since by reading the description of the book, it conveys the idea that it gives black the tools to win against ALL flank openings. Imagine my surprise and disappointment when I received the book and found out it covered only the English (variation 1.c4 e5) and the Catalan openings! This meant that the book was completely useless to me, since against 1.c4 I play 1...c5, and since I play the King's Indian, the Catalan is of no use to me.<br />I hope this advice helps future buyers in avoiding this book if you are looking for a solution similar to the one I was seeking. If on the contrary you are looking for help with the Catalan or English then this book may prove helpful. I browsed through the explanations the author gives and the games selected to depict these two opening and have to admit that Kotronias makes a good job in conveying his ideas and concepts. This is the only reason why I give the book 2 stars instead of 1.	2004-02-01
US	45042957	R2JSZE2LQF360J	0553571656	899258075	The Beekeeper's Apprentice	Books	4	138	148	N	N	The Game's Afoot	After the death of her family, Mary Russell, a fifteen year-old, moves to a farm with her \\"evil\\" aunt. In one of her walks around the area she meets the famous Sherlock Holmes, who is retired and dedicates his hours to the study of bees. Right from the start the two main characters in the book match their wits and Holmes is surprised by the potential he sees in this young woman. He then decides to tutor her and introduce her to the art of investigative work. In the next few years, they go through a few cases and Mary goes away to Oxford to continue her studies; but at one point they are faced with a more dangerous opponent, who wants to kill not only Holmes, but also Mary; even Dr. Watson and Mycroft are in danger. If you want to know the rest, you better read the book!<br />In my opinion the author does a very good job in maintaining the particular characteristics that define the characters in Arthur Conan Doyle's books, especially in the case of Sherlock Holmes. It is amazing how you feel that the deductive work is done by exactly the same detective you knew from the past, and with the added benefit of a fresh mind assisting him!<br />I was very pleased to see the ingenious way in which Laurie King connected this new series with the Conan Doyle's work. She concocted a story about her receiving the manuscripts of the different stories in the series some time ago, and that she is merely the editor. The manuscripts were of course written by the enchanting Mary Russell.<br />Finally, let me tell you that, since I am an avid chess player, I thoroughly enjoyed the way in which Holmes uses a chess game with Mary to explain the strategy he was planning to utilize in one of their cases.<br />I will definitely continue reading the books in this series, and if you haven't started yet, I recommend you do it now!	2004-01-30
US	45042957	R3FMHDTW7VW14Y	0743260953	33541163	Twisted: The Collected Stories of Jeffery Deaver	Books	4	17	19	N	N	All bets are off!	Even though I have read several novels by Jeffrey Deaver, I had never come across any of his short stories and it was a nice surprise to discover the high quality of this collection. Most stories are superb, and since I have not read any of them before I was delighted with the book. But it is only fair to warn those people who have read short stories by this author in the past, because there is only one story that has not been published before. The new story, \\"The Christmas Present\\", is the one I liked less in the whole book. It seems that the author (or someone at the publishing house) had the idea to introduce a new story when there was not sufficient time left to maintain the level of quality. The story is considerable worse than any of the others. It looks as if Deaver had run out of ideas and decided to use his \\"usual\\" characters, Rhyme and Sachs, in a failed attempt to salvage the task.<br />The author explains in the introduction the difference between a novel and a short story, besides length, describing the short story as a \\"genre\\" in which the writer is authorized to \\"cheat\\" the reader. According to Deaver, in a novel the reader spends time and emotional energy in getting to know the characters, and therefore, it would be unfair to present an unpleasant ending. But in a short story \\"all bets are off\\" and the author will do everything in his power to shock the reader, leaving him/her awed and going back in the story to see if it is really possible that he/she assumed facts that weren't really there. This is why the title \\"Twisted\\" fits the theme of the stories extremely well.<br />For those of you that have read Deaver's short stories in the past and are not sure if it is worthwhile to buy this book here is a list of the stories with a brief description:<br />1.Without Jonathan - A woman sets up a blind date in an attempt to keep on going with her life after losing her husband.<br />2.The Weekender - A theft goes awry and the robbers take a very persuasive salesman as their hostage.<br />3.For Services Rendered - A psychoanalyst focuses his energies on one of his patients when he is bored with his trivial practice.<br />4.Beautiful - For Kary being beautiful is a curse; she has to go to great lengths to escape the man that is stalking her.<br />5.The Fall Guy - After being saved by a \\"knight in a shinning armor\\", Carolyn presents him with a business proposition.<br />6.Eye to Eye - Two police officers investigate a heist in Virginia and find themselves interrogating a potential witness they knew from high school.<br />7.Triangle - Pete plans to commit the perfect murder based on the book \\"Triangle\\".<br />8.All the World's a Stage - Set in the times of Shakespeare, this is the story of a man that wants revenge after his father was framed for a theft and murdered as a result.<br />9.Gone fishing - Disregarding his daughter's warnings, a man goes fishing in the area where a serial killer has attacked in the past.<br />10.Nocturne - A music-lover police officer gets involved in the investigation of a stolen Stradivarius after failing to stop the thief during the act.<br />11.Lesser-included offense - A wealthy killer cannot go to jail and therefore, does not accept any of the deals proposed by the district attorney. The result is a very interesting trial.<br />12.The Blank Card - Obsessed about his wife's loyalty, Dennis decides to check-up on her and finds an envelope with a Christmas card bearing no name or address.<br />13.The Christmas Present - Lincoln Rhyme and Amanda Sachs investigate the disappearance of a woman and get involved in a very special Christmas present.<br />14.Together - Manko tells a friend about the love of his life, how her father interfered to keep them apart and how he had to go to great lengths to stay with her.<br />15.The Widow of Pine Creek - After losing her husband in a fishing accident, a woman is left alone to manage their business and requests the assistance of a banker she met at a bar.<br />16.The Kneeling Soldier - Gwen's parents had protected her throughout her life from the usual unpleasantness children and adolescents go through. Now there is a guy stalking her and, and they find themselves in a difficult to handle situation.- Gwen's parents had protected her throughout her life from the usual unpleasantness children and adolescents go through. Now there is a guy stalking her and, and they find themselves in a difficult to handle situation.	2004-01-27
US	45042957	R27YX536FE4Q50	0743444507	165617335	Remember Me, Irene: An Irene Kelly Novel (Irene Kelly Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fourth book in one of my favorite series	After her \\"secret\\" marriage to Detective Frank Harriman, Irene Kelly returns to work and we find her taking part in a society called SOS. Jan Burke gives the readers that have followed this series a further glimpse into Irene's past and it's relationship to SOS. Then, one day while she is writing an article on public transportation she meets a homeless man on a bus stop bench who says he knows her and that she is \\"good at math\\". After disregarding the encounter and writing the homeless guy off as someone who saw her picture in her column Irene finds out that he was actually a former college instructor of hers and when he is found dead, our heroine is again in the middle of a mystery involving betrayal, fraud and greed.<br />After a very interesting start, the book has a section of about 100 pages in which it failed to keep the interest this series has achieved in its previous books. That is the only reason I give four stars to it, since after that section, the story picks up again and it does not let you go!<br />It is great the way in which Jan Burke mixes funny and entertaining situations in the main story. This book will provide you with another view of pagers ;-)	2004-01-18
US	45042957	R1B2G4GN2Z8KAS	9505816081	240143354	Tratado General de Ajedrez -Tomo II- (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very good for beginners	This book, as the rest of the series is a great tool for beginners who are starting up in chess and want to get some instruction.This instalment deals with tactics and the author does a great job in describing the different positions and explaining the logic behind moves and combinations. The work is organized by grouping together the different tactical motiffs; examples are plenty and in several cases full games are presented, which helps grasp better the characteristics of a certain position.<br />I wouldn't recommend this book to experienced players, since most of the examples are pretty straightforward and easy to understand.	2004-01-17
US	45042957	R2PW57BWLR7J5R	8466300031	305337003	Un asunto de honor (Cachito) (Punto de Lectura) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great short novel!	This is the classic story of good versus evil that you have read about so many times, but it is told by a writer with great talent. Manolo, who is a truck driver, goes to the rescue of Maria, whose virginity has been sold to the &quot;evil&quot; guy. The action is fast paced and there are passages with great humor. You should be able to read this book in one sitting!<br />This novel will give you an idea of the talent Arturo Perez-Reverte has. I recommend you also read The Fencing Master, The Flanders Panel and The Nautical Chart.	2004-01-16
US	45042957	RYEAIRY36V113	8402067115	934957316	Pantaleon y las visitadoras (CLUB Bruguera) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fresh and funny!	When Captain Pantaleon Pantoja gets the assignment of setting up a service of prostitutes for the Peruvian National Army, he decides to follow orders without hesitation. The only problem is that he starts liking his new chores so much that he &quot;forgets&quot; about the army. The story gives the reader a funny and critical view on how things work in some South American countries (coming from Uruguay I can atest to this).<br />For those of you that have read Vargas Llosa before, this book is considerably easier to follow than some of his other novels like Cathedral or The city and the dogs. The reason is that Vargas Llosa does not create confusion with time and characters in this novel as he does in those. If you have never read Vargas Llosa, this is a good place to start; you will likely be hungry for more afterwards!	2004-01-16
US	45042957	R3D02DF3WIX1E8	8571644829	414849752	O xango de Baker Street: Romance (Portuguese Edition)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	What Conan Doyle failed to tell	When a Stradivarius that was a gift from Peter the Second disapears, Shelock Holmes and Dr. Watson decide to travel to Brazil in order to unravel the mystery. The detective is not as sucessful in this story as he was in the tales of Conan Doyle, and the funny situations keep showing up in this delightful story by Jo Soares. You cannot miss this!	2004-01-13
US	45042957	R11A9XHKBXTPF0	090092893X	215980712	Combinations in the Middle Game ([The Chess player])	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Companion to Romanovsky's great books	This is a short book that has some examples, several very simple, of how to find combinations. The value of the book by itself is very limited, but it compliments very well two books written by Peter Romanovsky: Chess Middlegame Combinations and Chess Middlegame Planning. These two books give the student a complete understanding on how to plan your strategy to encourage combinations to surface and then how to identify and execute these opportunities.<br />If you read the two books by Romanovsky, then you can find some extra ideas and get some practice with this book by Bondarevskii.	2004-01-09
US	45042957	R3Q0CDJKOAI6Y8	1886846081	539157140	2: Combination Cross: The Tactician's Handbook	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Good examples but with no instruction	This book, as the rest of this series by Charusin lacks explanation; the examples are interesting, but the book consists only of move lists and diagrams with no explanation of the rationale behind the moves.<br />It would probably be a good book if you have a master available to go with you through the games, but if you are an average chess player by me you will be dissapointed.	2004-01-08
US	45042957	R2L75HPW57MQ5N	0345424816	764163405	Extreme Justice (Ben Kincaid Series, No. 7)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not as good as the previous ones	The previous books in the series were very good or excellent, but in this installment Bernhardt delivers an average book. It is still easy to read and entertaining, but there are some things missing. The most clear one is that there is no courtroom events in this &quot;legal thriller&quot;. The other thing I didn't like was that the descriptions of the violence are too gory in some parts.<br />After deciding to leave his legal practice in the last book, Ben Kincaid starts playing the piano in a jazz group and is forced to go back to practice when a body drops on top of him during a performance. The the main suspect is Earl, who owns the place and has established a friendship with Ben, since the murdered victim is a former lover.<br />For those of you that follow the series there are a couple of interesting side stories going on with Jones, Christina and Mrs. Marmelstein.<br />Of course I will continue reading this series; at least the next book to see if the quality picks up again.	2004-01-04
US	45042957	R1WILGGG9ROCYE	0670311782	158957390	Fields of Force: Fischer and Spassky at Reykjavik	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Interesting account of what happened in Reyjavik	The author describes the politics and tantrums by both players (mostly Fischer) before and during the 1972 Chess World Championship. Before going through these events, the book focuses on the past champions and makes the argument that all of them where \\"crazy\\" in some form or other. Fischer is described as a despicable person who plays almost perfect chess. Bobby was a racist (neo-nazi), paranoid, anarchyst who thought everyone was against him and that he should not be held by the same rules that applied to eveyone else. One clear example of this is that through his constant complaints about soviet players agreeing to quick draws arguing they were keeping their strength to battle better against him, Bobby got the FIDE to set a rule that required 30 moves to be played before a draw can be agreed. The first one to break this rule was Fischer, and when asked about it he answered \\"Those rules are for Communist cheaters, not for me\\".<br />Overall, the book is very well written and provides an interesting insight on the human aspects of the match. It is he perfect companion to any chess book with the actual games and analysis of this World Championship.	2004-01-02
US	45042957	RVZEXYEPAGCYV	0345452577	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kellerman at his best!	I thought that I was not going to enjoy this novel very much because of the change in main character. I haven't read all the Delaware novels yet, but I enjoyed enormously those I have read. In the Conspiracy Club Kellerman sticks to what has made him a best-selling author...a psychologist involved in a mystery as main character.<br />After his girlfriend is murdered in a gruesome manner, Dr. Jeremy Carrier is considered the main suspect by the police. As other girls are murdered this suspicion intensifies and Jeremy finds himself looking for the killer with the help of a stranger that sends anonymous messages and clues to him through the hospital mail. The clues started coming after he was invited to a \\"secret\\" dinner by one of the doctors on staff, Dr. Chess. In this dinner Jeremy met four very intriguing elderly people that piqued his curiosity and whose backgrounds are part of the solution to the mystery.<br /><br />The novel is very well written and keeps you on edge, presenting a considerable variety of suspects and a very interesting plot. I couldn't put it down!	2003-12-31
US	45042957	RUB6TKNHQ78BS	0380751380	777587766	Trial by Fury (J. P. Beaumont Mysteries, No. 3) (J. P. Beaumont Novel)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	J.A. Jance sticks to her winning formula!	This series keeps the ingredients that made it a winner from the start: a divorced detective that has lots of money and loves McNaughton's, a partner that only eats healthy food and lives with his two kids, a lawyer that was &quot;inherited&quot; together with the money and an obnoxious reporter that hates the detective's guts due to past rivalries. This mix makes the Beaumont series a highly enjoyable one. You can read each of these books in a few hours non-stop and be eager for more!<br />If you are not interested in reading the whole series you can still read this book alone, sine there is enough background information in it to fully enjoy it. Nevertheless, I would not recommend reading Injustice For All (if you are planning to read this one too) after Trial By Fury since the latter has information about the ending of the former.<br />It is hard to say which series is better, J.P. Beaumont of Joanna Brady. My recommendation is: READ THEM BOTH!	2003-12-29
US	45042957	R11M8ZR36RZL4J	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good start for the Anita Blake Series	This is a good book, that keeps you interested throughout. Nevertheless, Anne Rice is still queen in this genre. What I don't enjoy that much about the Anita Blake story (and I know that other people will disagree) is that besides vampire it has a whole myriad of other non human creatures (zombies, ghouls, animators, wererats, etc.).<br />If you haven't read neither Rice nor Hamilton I would start with Rice first, but if you have already read Rice's books then Hamilton might be a good second choice.	2003-12-28
US	45042957	R1JTTNM5CMKU2E	0449000877	541373049	Naked Justice	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This series is always enjoyable	This sixth book in the series does not disappoint. It is a fast paced novel that keeps you guessing until the end. There are some parallelisms in the story with the OJ trial (football start accused of murder, mishandling of the crime scene, car chase through a highway, etc.) but Bernhardt keeps it interesting regardless.<br />For those readers that have been following the series, in this installment we get more information about Ben's relationship with his father and the DA Bullock.<br />I am looking forward to reading the next book in the series!	2003-12-26
US	45042957	R1KL86TJFVFFJD	1880418568	446733041	Wolves of the Calla (Dark Tower)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	One of the best series ever!	The Dark Tower along with Harry Potter are probably the best series I have ever read (I don't count Lord of the Rings since it wasn't published as a series).<br />Roland and his ka-tet are moving closer and closer to the Tower and in their way they reach Calla where the population has been harassed for a long time by the Wolves. The Wolves come every 25 years or so to take away half of the Calla children. Of course, the gunslinger and his group offer help.<br />I have read some reviews claiming that you can enjoy this book by itself without any need to be a King's fan. While I agree that the book is enjoyable by itself, I also think that you need to read the previous books first if you want to fully understand the story and the complex relationships between the characters and the different worlds. It also helps if you have read other Stephen King books, since there are connections to them as well (clear ones with Salem's Lot and Hearts in Atlantis).<br />I started reading this series about ten years ago and when the last book comes out by the end of 2005 I will probably read the whole series over again. I know that there are some fine points in the plot I am missing by not remembering the starting books all that well.<br />My recommendation is...READ THE WHOLE SERIES! You will not be disappointed.	2003-12-24
US	45042957	RV7PR66BRWM7K	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very good effort!	Susie Salmon tells her story from heaven after being raped an murdered. She describes how her family is coping with the terrible events that unfold from her murder and how life in heaven develops.<br />The book presents a well depicted vision of what heaven is like but the most important acomplishment is the unveiling of what a family goes through as a consequence of such horrible events.<br />The only flaw I can point is that there is a point in which the story moves forward in time very fast creating a gap that would have been better filled with a more thorough depiction of what was going on.<br />Overall a very good read, definitely worth your time!	2003-12-20
US	45042957	R2K460LDSLQCJ8	0345391330	984332835	Perfect Justice	Books	4	2	2	N	N	More Depth in Plot than two previous books	The previous two books in this series were similar to Perry Mason but with more humor. This books changes the series, since the tone is considerably more serious and touches upon some issues like racism and the violence created by it.<br />The story is very well written and the characters are lovable as always. If this change in tone is a trend which will be followed in next books I like it. Although I also enjoy the way the previous two books were written.	2003-12-09
US	45042957	R17WQOLIL5C6QO	0345374797	919782075	Primary Justice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great start for a new series	You won't be dissapointed with this series which has it all: humor, suspense and great characters. These books are very easy to read and you will find yourself finished with them sooner than you expected.<br />I hope you give this series a try!	2003-12-09
US	45042957	R3CDELY28WVZXE	0553802526	941388331	The Killing Hour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You won't be able to stop reading!	One of the most griping books I have read lately. New agent Kimberly Quincy tries to catch a killer that kidnaps young women in pairs and kills one immediately leaving clues at the site to find the second one.<br />This is an extremely fast-paced book with several twists and turns, well-depicted characters and an awesome storyline. this one you cannot miss!	2003-12-06
US	45042957	R2SL90K1281INC	0553561723	67161861	Burning Time (April Woo Suspense Novels (Paperback))	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The good novel that could have been great	Glass does a great job in getting the reader into the story, creating an interesting plot and intricate characters. Nevertheless, towards the end the action is too rushed and events unfold without a clear connection. It seems to me as if the author had to comply with a deadline and could not finish the book in the way it deserved. This series will get another chance from me, and hopefully the experience will be better next time!	2003-12-05
US	45042957	R31NSUN0G3VQ6R	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not up to Grisham's other efforts	This book as well as Bleachers is well below other thrillers I have read by this author. The book merely tells the story of a mass tort lawyer, and how fast he can rise to the top and fall back down. It seems that Grisham does a lot better when he is writing thrillers!	2003-12-05
US	45042957	R2QJXLULDGAGYS	0451410017	182243858	Pressure Points	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Dissapointing after Darkness Bound	I was expecting a lot more from this novel after reading Brook's first one Darkness Bound.<br />The reason why I didn't like this novel as much is becuase the author twists the plot so much in an effort to keep the reader interested, that it gets to the point of were it is too much.<br /><br />I am looking forward to read the next novel (Serpent's Dance) to see if the author went back to the qulity shown in Darkness Bound.	2003-12-03
US	45042957	R2JHYAN2QNKLIZ	0451409450	553807381	Darkness Bound	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Awesome thriller..IT IS NOT AN EROTIC NOVEL	Although this novel has some erotic elements in it, I would classify it as a thriller. And a very good one for that! You will find yourself unable to stop reading this fast paced novel with a masterfully crafted plot and events happening at great speed.<br />I followed this reading with Pressure points which is not nearly as good, but as for Darkness Bound I would say it is one of the finest first novels I have read in the last years.	2003-12-03
US	45042957	R26LNXT2DQ0Q3S	1901983536	634142215	Fundamental Chess Endings	Books	5	36	38	N	N	Must have chess book for ANY chess player!	This book will certainly make a huge impact in your play. It is absolutely great to be able to trade pieces in the midlegame when you know that the ensuing endgame is won for you and your opponent does the same because he does not see this! It is also very valuable to know certain theoretically drawn positions in order to avoid them when you have the edge, or seek them when you don't.<br />This book has all that plus a LOT more, you will find every &quot;commonly&quot; reached endgame and a clear explanation (with plenty of variations) on the right way to play it. You should study this book no matter what your level of play is ad you will get a clear edge against your opponents that have not done so!	2003-11-29
US	45042957	R9V0YWQ7F7SH4	1857442024	865385773	Life & Games of Mikhail Tal	Books	5	22	24	N	N	The veredict is in! Best chessbook ever!	This book has it all, Tal's autobiography told as a fictional interview, key positions of some games that are interesting to analyze and complete games with a thorough analysis.<br />I remember that when my rating was 1500 USCF I got a book which had some games by Tal that were not analyzed and I couldn't understand a thing. It was funny, because with other players I could find some sense in the games, but with Tal, half the moves were unexplainable to me. This book helped me understand some of his games, and when you see the reason behind some of his moves explained and the analysis to support it, you will be awed! Although now I am a player rated 1800, there are still some sacrifices that are very tough to swallow, like the masterpiece in which Tal sacrifices his queen for a knight without any immediate compensation (a reviewer claims it is a queen for a bishop and another reviewer says there is no such game...well, it is a queen for a knight!).<br />This book will fascinate you, I guarantee it! And you will open your mind to new tactical combinations and sacrifices that you had not considered in your wildest dreams!	2003-11-26
US	45042957	R1LRU2GAFH4CT1	0425150984	203707661	Glory in Death	Books	4	1	1	N	N	This series is worth your time!	This is the second book in the Eve Dallas series. In this futuristic world cars fly, only rich people can drink real coffee, guns are prohibited and the death penalty has been banned since 2012. Robb's imagination for putting all this together is admirable!<br />The mystery plot is also very good, with a killer taking out powerful women and several people popping up as likely suspects.<br />The final added touch is the personal relationship between Eve and billionaire Roarke. Both characters carry an emotional baggage from their childhood which is revealed little by little through the book (and will likely continue to be revealed in next installments).<br />With an interesting plot and full of colorful characters this book (and this series) is a must read!	2003-11-26
US	45042957	R2FHJATLJDKRH6	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nothing special	I guess that if you are a football fan like me this book is OK, but most of it is similar to listening to a broadcast of a football game over the radio.<br />Apart from the football narration this book has little else, so if you don't like football a lot stay away from it.	2003-11-25
US	45042957	R1ICCF0HM111N8	0312984979	757947270	Murphy's Law: A Molly Murphy Mystery (Molly Murphy Mysteries)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Amazing descriptions	First of all let me point out that this book has nothing to do with the well known Murphy's Law :)<br />Although the mystery part of the plot is not extremely elaborated, this book is worth reading. The author describes New York in the times were the Irish were immigrating to the city in a way that keeps you intersted throughout the book.<br />Very good choice for light reading!	2003-11-24
US	45042957	R1LS08S2BHQ3FU	0553801309	768428518	A Place of Hiding	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Please go back to Lynley and Havers!	Don't get me wrong, this is a very good book. But the main characters (Simon and his wife) are not as interesting as Lynley and Havers. Besides I waited more than a year for this book because I wanted to know what was going to happen with Barbara and her neighbors just to find out that she is not mentioned in this new book in the series.<br />I hope George goes back to the characters that really characterize this series in her next book!	2003-11-24
US	45042957	R2ZK92A9UBFUSE	1886846146	795304176	The Blackmar-Diemer Gambit, Keybook II	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Great choice of opening to improve	If you are a begginer or intermediate player you can probably reap great benefits from playing this opening. When I started using it my USCF rating was 1500, and a few months later it was 1800. I have realized though that when you start facing stronger opponents (2000 and over) it is difficult to obtain enough compensation for the pawn.<br />I have had trouble mostly with the variation 1.d4 d5 2.e4 dxe4 3.Nc3 e5!? and also with some lines of the Bogoljubov defense (5...g6 after accepting the gambit).<br />Since I also started playing more correspondence chess I had to slowly move away from this opening and nowadays I only use it with players under 1800 or when I play blitz. Nevertheless, I know that playing this opening for a while helped me improve my tactics and attacking chess greatly!	2003-11-23
US	45042957	R3DPZUJLCTK282	0446530891	382868174	Split Second (King & Maxwell)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The last 100 pages spoil this book	When I was approximately half through the book I was riding in an elevator with the book in my hands and another guy pointed at it and said \\"Not one of his best\\". I looked at him as if he was crazy, since the book had me reading every second I could get and was looking very promising.<br /><br />When I reached page 300 I completely understood that comment, the plot turns into something so farfetched that it made me want to throw the book away. I am not sure what the author and the editors were thinking. The only reason why I give this book 3 stars instead of 1 is because the first 3/4 of it are really good.<br /><br />Anyway, my final recommendation is: Don't waste your time!	2003-11-22
US	45042957	R2GG8V8KN5X9PV	0345408039	255324323	Cruel Justice	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Highly Entertaining Light Reading	This book, as well as the previous ones provides an entertaining time without the overly twisted plot some other authors within the legal thrillers category elaborate. The Kincaid books also have a good amount of humor and the side stories relating to Ben Kincaid, his assistant, mother, sister and ex brother in law provide an extra appeal to the series. This side stories make it worthwile to read the books in order, which is what I am doing.<br />If you are looking to have a good time with a book that reads fast and easy, this is one of your best options.	2003-11-22
US	45042957	R2LKXLBB5LWNKN	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Well created world	In the start of this series Robb depicts the New york of the future, where only rich people can drink real coffe, robots serve take care of household chores, cars fly and weapons are banned except for collectors...and a ruthless killer.<br />Lieutenant Eve Dallas is in charge of finding the responsible for a series of murders of prositutes. It gets more complicated when she falls for Roarke, a millionaire and one of the main suspects in the investigation. If you enjoyed immersing yourself in fantasy universes like the one in Lord of the Rings and you like mysteries this is a must read series for you!	2003-11-22
US	45042957	R2R3CLWK7XPKVK	1857444000	996987103	Art of Attack in Chess	Books	5	60	68	N	N	Great book for intermediate players and above!	As you can quickly realize by reading the other reviews about this book, it is one of the best books ever written on attacking chess. Nevertheless, I disagree with the people that claims that this is the first instruction book you should get. I would recommend those players with a rating below 1600 to go through other more basic tactics books first. A good book for this is Chess Tactics for the Tournament Player by Alburt and Palatnik. Once you master the basic tactics the Art of Attack in Chess will put you through to the next level.<br />You will also love this book if you are one of those players that was disappointed after trying to study Think Like a Grandmaster by Kotov and realized that it was way too complicated for you.<br />Hope this helps!	2003-11-21
US	45042957	R1O2H8C2X0XAPZ	067003259X	688507671	Foul Matter	Books	1	12	16	N	N	Really Boring!	After reading reviews by some of my favorite authors about this book I felt I needed to read it. Everyone was raving about it. I was completely disappointed! Maybe people that know the publishing industry from the inside find it funny for reasons we mere mortal readers do not. My advice to those readers that like the Richard Jury books is to skip this failed attempt at humor by Grimes.	2003-11-18
