US	45054283	R3SA1AZIP7NM3P	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must for anyone interested in China	I gave this five stars because it was such a well-written account of an American's experiences in a remote city in China. I've read a lot of fiction and memoirs about China or the Chinese experience, but this was completely new to me because it was from the perspective of a total foreigner. I was surprised at how pervasive patriotic thought still was in the college where Hessler taught (I was also impressed with his drive and ability to learn Chinese). I enjoyed reading about his relationships and discussions with his students, teachers and the locals, and the struggles and frustrations caused by his \\"waigoren\\" status. I wonder what happened to his students, or if they were able to access his book after it was published. I hope he'll write more because I'll definitely read it. Seriously, I've never read a book that was more honestly written - it seemed like he left nothing out, noting his own issues, his mistakes, as well as his triumphs. This is a great book about what everyday life is like in Modern China (at least in the city of Fulin).	2005-07-31
US	45054283	R1MAHB7SCCAH0J	0679723285	96080746	China Men	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Excellent storyteller	I loved this book, and I love how the author writes. She tells her stories not in a typical narrative, factual, journalistic way, but in a stylized, \\"storylike\\" way (does that make sense?!). All of the stories focused on the different men in her family, especially her father. They all center on the Chinese man's experience in America, from the railroad days onward, and tells of their struggles, triumphs and failures. As a whole the book is about how these experiences shaped the men in her family. She intersperses a few legends here and there, just like she does in Woman Warrior. I enjoy how she takes her family history and literally turns it into a work of art. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book.	2005-07-31
US	45054283	RYQLM82FF3N14	1594480702	795188046	Aloft	Books	2	6	15	N	N	Disappointed.	No, I'm not a literary expert but so what? I picked it up based on the positive reviews, but I agree with some of the negative reviews. Jerome Battle's voice was unconvincing. His thought processes were so overly descriptive and loaded with \\"special\\" words (I'm embarrassed to admit that I actually consulted the dictionary while reading). I just couldn't believe that a guy really thinks this way! Due to the fact that Jerry seemed so unreal, I just couldn't care less about him or the story.	2005-03-27
US	45054283	R1A96VDJQ8YPQ9	0025893300	197529719	Haing Ngor: A Cambodian Odyssey	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Engrossing, deeply disturbing, yet inspiring...	I'm sorry that it took me so long to find this book, partially because the book is actually entitled &quot;SURVIVING the Killing Fields: The Cambodian Odyssey of Haing S. Ngor&quot; (and after all this time it took only a few days to read it). Aside from that, it's probably the most intense memoir about life under the Khmer Rouge. Also gives thorough insight into the social and political maze that led led to Pol Pot's reign of terror, and what happened to Cambodia afterwards. Ngor also told not only the *deeply* disturbing details of his life as a war slave, but also the difficulties of starting a new life in America. In addition, he clearly portrayed the bizarro-ness of life as a celebrity, as opposed to the life he lived in his homeland. The reader gets a real sense of the isolation he must have felt, even after his successes in America. All this, along with his spiritual beliefs in karma, which helped him explain some of the madness, make this a beautiful and haunting story. By the way, reading this will make you want to see 'The Killing Fields' again, just to see his performance one more time. It's clear that this memoir served in part as a therapeutic device for him personally, but it's also a truly inspiring book for anyone to read. Reading about his journey was weirdly prophetic, bittersweet and sad because ten years after this book was published, Ngor was killed in a senseless act of violence in L.A.	2004-03-12
US	45054283	R2EUB0YMJAMZ0N	070113187X	660387984	Survivor of the Killing Fields	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Engrossing, deeply disturbing, yet inspiring...	I'm sorry that it took me so long to find this book, partially because the book is actually entitled \\"SURVIVING the Killing Fields: The Cambodian Odyssey of Haing S. Ngor\\" (and after all this time it took only a few days to read it). Aside from that, it's probably the most intense memoir about life under the Khmer Rouge. Also gives thorough insight into the social and political maze that led led to Pol Pot's reign of terror, and what happened to Cambodia afterwards. Ngor also told not only the *deeply* disturbing details of his life as a war slave, but also the difficulties of starting a new life in America. In addition, he clearly portrayed the bizarro-ness of life as a celebrity, as opposed to the life he lived in his homeland. The reader gets a real sense of the isolation he must have felt, even after his successes in America. All this, along with his spiritual beliefs in karma, which helped him explain some of the madness, make this a beautiful and haunting story. By the way, reading this will make you want to see 'The Killing Fields' again, just to see his performance one more time. It's clear that this memoir served in part as a therapeutic device for him personally, but it's also a truly inspiring book for anyone to read. Reading about his journey was weirdly prophetic, bittersweet and sad because ten years after this book was published, Ngor was killed in a senseless act of violence in L.A.	2004-02-29
US	45054283	R22NKZ8X805ORQ	0802136605	99154262	Daughter of the River: An Autobiography	Books	2	6	9	N	N	If you must read it, borrow it from the library.	I just had a hard time reading/understanding/finishing this book. I did finally finish it because I wanted to know the mystery behind the author's father, but in the end the whole book was disappointing. I guess it's a matter of the book's structure. The author jumps from one time setting to another so often, it gets totally confusing! Also she intertwines different stories of different family members and other people in her life, that it's easy to confuse the characters. Some of the language sounds awkward, the curse words seem...forced. Also after a while, the author's unceasing bitterness towards life tended to grate on my nerves.	2003-11-18
US	45054283	R3J95Y5I945P7H	0375724931	794119090	The Bridegroom: Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable collection of stories on life in China	Ha Jin has such a clean style of writing. I really like his novels, but I have to say that I think his short stories are a lot more lively! Each story was connected by the fact that most of its characters lived or worked in Muji City. Furthermore, most of the stories commented on the legal and social system in China, where much of one's reputation was staked on hearsay and not fact, for example. Basically, take your pick, there isn't one story in this book that won't surprise you in terms of how Communism controls every aspect of people's lives.<br />It was funny to read how different people's perceptions are in China. Especially funny was reading &quot;After Cowboy Chicken Came to Town,&quot; and seeing how the Western Capitalist fastfood workplace quickly turned the Chinese workers into angry, disgruntled angst-ridden youth. (Welcome to our nightmare!) I enjoyed &quot;Alive,&quot; where I was shocked to see how quickly the government expected widows to remarry and start new lives in the aftermath of a disaster such as an earthquake. I also liked &quot;Broken,&quot; which was a simple story about a man's desire which quickly turned into revenge, and came back to haunt him. Some of the stories were told in first person which turned out to be extremely vibrant. One of my favorites was &quot;An Entrepreneur's Story,&quot; in which a man tells how the world treated him differently after he became wealthy.<br />Actually, all of the stories were well-written, moved quickly, and were filled with everyday realism. Each one was told with a clearly different, individual voice, complete with its own quirks. It took me only a few days to finish this. I think I'll read more of Ha Jin's short stories.	2003-10-13
US	45054283	RBOJAJF1BSIWM	0452274125	94866560	The Rice Room: Growing Up Chinese-American from Number Two Son to Rock 'n'Roll	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Another point of view...	I really enjoyed reading about Ben Fong Torres' life growing up in Oakland's Chinatown. He has a very different perspective than writers of many of the books I've read lately, in that he grew up as an American, appreciating American culture and thought. I've read some reviews that said he sold out his own culture, but I disagree. I'd say that he was very typical. I can completely understand why much of his parents' ways were lost on him and his siblings while they were young.<br />As someone who is half-Iranian, exposed to many traditions, proverbs, food, and extremely different perceptions of women and men, what was proper behavior, and family life, I can totally relate to this book. As a child, I, too, didn't \\"get it.\\" I didn't appreciate these differences, and I viewed the Iranian way as nonsense, backwards, idiosyncratic, and generally a pain in the butt.<br />Oftentimes when one grows up in a family whose parent(s) are immigrants, the children will naturally want to assimilate into the society in which they live. In this case they'll want to be American. However, it isn't until they become adults that they start to appreciate or understand their heritage, which was the case with Torres' memoir, and that discovery on his part makes the whole story that much more touching.<br />His sense of humor comes shining through in his work as well, which is a nice change from other writers. I enjoyed his detailed descriptions of the hippy movement in San Francisco, and it was fascinating to see the difference between the movement on the streets--mainly for fashion and partying, versus the movement in the universities, which was political, the heart of all the changes.<br />The only thing that kind put me off was the way Ben Fong-Torres juggled multiple relationships. Although he was the first to admit that his maturity level wasn't exactly up to par when it came to women, I was surprised at how much he (and his brother Barry) were able to do this unscathed.<br />I'm glad that he wrote in detail about his siblings, how they struggled as well, especially his brother Barry, who was the impetus behind this book (I almost wish he wrote as much about his sisters!). Ben Fong-Torres obviously had (and probably still has) a very interesting life with a great many stories to tell. There were many facets to his life; the Chinese-American experience, his appreciation for rock n' roll music, his work with the Rolling Stone, and his ever-evolving relationship with his family. His story is worth reading.that he wrote in detail about his siblings, how they struggled as well, especially his brother Barry, who was the impetus behind this book (I almost wish he wrote as much about his sisters!). Ben Fong-Torres obviously had (and probably still has) a very interesting life with a great many stories to tell. There were many facets to his life; the Chinese-American experience, his appreciation for rock n' roll music, his work with the Rolling Stone, and his ever-evolving relationship with his family. His story is worth reading.	2003-06-23
US	45054283	R2NXTEH4EVWYWP	1559210869	166548177	East Wind: West Wind (Oriental Novels of Pearl S. Buck)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Insightful and romantic...	This was a quick and easy read told in the first person through the eyes of a Chinese woman. Also it's clear that the writer's own loyalty to the Western thought of romantic love is all over this story. It is this notion that ultimately drives the narrator to give up her old ways and accept the new.<br />Buck describes how difficult it is for one to accept change in age-old rituals. Although many of the traditions are seen as unnecessary, foolish or just plain sadistic, it's difficult to question them after growing up in a culture where these traditions have been practiced for thousands of years. The narrator is a good vehicle to show how upsetting, confusing and frustrating it can be to incorporate these changes into one's life. Time and time again the theme of the generation gap is revealed, showing how many people simply cannot be changed.<br />Although many of the following issues came into strong play in this novel, it wasn't so much a search for better opportunity, nor political freedom, independence, nor education, that was the big catalyst for change, as was the simple concept of romantic love.<br />This was a lovely, bittersweet story with a seemingly very realistic portrayal of how a family rooted in tradition would react to their children, who want to break from tradition. A classic issue, regardless of what era or culture in which one lives.	2003-06-02
US	45054283	R2BYJFU1M2UD5U	0671784560	999720718	Three Daughters of Madame Liang	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Nice intro to the Chinese perspective of the New Government	I thought this novel was a wonderful introduction to the mindset of the Chinese people, both those living in China, and those living in America, towards the new government. It was an enlightening story because as an American, we view it simply as a government as one that took away everyone's freedoms, which it did. Yet, of course, it's not that simple. The story is about that deeply-rooted devotion to one's mother country, no matter what changes it goes through. It also reveals what led to the change of government, and what problems arised and what new changes occurred afterward. Through Madame Liang, representing the older revolutionary generation, the story showed how the revolution failed, and she saw how certain mistakes in history were made. Through her daughters, it showed the hope in which the younger generation had for the new China, and their attempts to restore a strong nation within the new framework. Also revealed was the the repression of emotions, through Grace, the eldest daughter, her hopeless lusting after Liu Peng, yet knowing that his mind was narrow and brainwashed in the Communist school of thought. Of course, the repression of individual thought was evident with John Sung, the scientist who refused to create weapons to be used against Americans. The stories surrounding Mercy and Joy, Madame Liang's two other daughters, was interesting in that they both struggled with their loyalties to China, but love, in Joy's case, kept her in America, while experience in the new China, forced Mercy to escape. There were a lot of interesting themes throughout the story, the theme of love in light of this new way of life, the theme of pride in one's own race and country. The style in which the story was told was very different from that of \\"The Good Earth.\\" Here it was a much more fast-moving narrative, and a great modern story.<br />I couldn't put this book down, but there's just one thing that bothered me, and that was the ending, which seemed so abrupt. All of a sudden certain events happened which bluntly put the entire story to an end. Certainly these events were convincing, yet it still left me completely shocked and almost disappointed once the novel was finished. That's the only reason why I gave it four stars.of a sudden certain events happened which bluntly put the entire story to an end. Certainly these events were convincing, yet it still left me completely shocked and almost disappointed once the novel was finished. That's the only reason why I gave it four stars.	2003-05-17
US	45054283	RCXS223E35AIM	0880015829	318982614	The Sheltering Sky	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Challenging and Poetic Novel	Beautifully-written novel about the cruelty of that which we do not know or understand. There were unbelievable descriptions of the filth and abject poverty in the some of the North African cities. At these times, it was difficult to see the beauty that the main traveler, Port, was searching for, and also laid to waste a lot of the glamor attached to the \\"world traveler\\" in third-world countries. The entire story was filled with poetic imagery of the desert, death, the sky, the sun and heat. Also many characters along the journey; the descriptions of the Lyles were incredible: A wonderful picture of such a disgusting and despicable pair. There were many other characters like the menacing Captain Broussard, the frightening yet intriguing Belqassim.<br />For the first part of the book, we met Kit and Port, who supposedly went to North Africa to rekindle their marriage, although I didn't get that impression simply because a) Port invited his friend Tunner and b) Kit didn't seem to share Port's interest in North Africa and c) neither Port nor Kit seemed interested in each other once they got there. At some point, all three of them had cheated on each other, betraying each other's trust, friendship, and love, though the issue was never confronted by any of them. In fact, these characters' personalities and relationships to each other were the most bewildering issues of the book.<br />There was a constant criss-crossing between a desperately strong sense of duty (without knowing why) to utter complacency and indifference between Kit and Port. They, along with Tunner, seemed rich, spoiled and ignorant. I couldn't understand their reactions to certain situations; such as Tunner's thoughts as to how his friends at home would interpret Port and Kit's disappearance, or Kit's reaction to Port's death, or Port's overreactions to Kit! Then again, the three of them were in an extreme environment. They wandered aimlessly in another world, void of Western reason, void of Western fairness, powerful, unyielding, and wholly unsympathetic.<br />I loved Bowles' constant symbolism throughout the book; such as Marhnia's retelling of the story of the women who wished for tea in the sahara, for which they got more than they bargained. Then there was the train dream that was so important for Port to interpret: \\"one's hesitation was an involuntary decision to refuse participation\\" in life. I think that this sentence pretty much described Port, Kit and Tunner. Again, they drifted much of the time, making decisions very much on a whim, living moment to moment, refusing to face the feelings deep in their conscience: Guilt, regrets, fear, etc. Finally, Port's stolen passport was a wonderful symbolism of his inevitable erasure from existence.<br />The last section of the novel was fantastic. Kit was forced to stop living according to omens in the sky, forced to stop living in fear. Up until this point, most of her living was vicarious through Port. Her journey with the men in the caravan was frightening and savage, yet it completely opened a long-hidden facet in her character. The irony was that it took her to the point of no return. Once she was \\"saved,\\" it was sadly clear that no Westerner could possibly understand what she experienced, so it seemed fitting that Kit would just disappear into her own madness, or was it even madness?<br />Yes, I loved this novel--a gorgeous illustration of the cruel beauty of the desert and its culture. Such a seemingly benign environment was powerful enough to bring any arrogant Westerner physically and psychically, to his knees.airness, powerful, unyielding, and wholly unsympathetic. <br />I loved Bowles' constant symbolism throughout the book; such as Marhnia's retelling of the story of the women who wished for tea in the sahara, for which they got more than they bargained. Then there was the train dream that was so important for Port to interpret: \\"one's hesitation was an involuntary decision to refuse participation\\" in life. I think that this sentence pretty much described Port, Kit and Tunner. Again, they drifted much of the time, making decisions very much on a whim, living moment to moment, refusing to face the feelings deep in their conscience: Guilt, regrets, fear, etc. Finally, Port's stolen passport was a wonderful symbolism of his inevitable erasure from existence. <br />The last section of the novel was fantastic. Kit was forced to stop living according to omens in the sky, forced to stop living in fear. Up until this point, most of her living was vicarious through Port. Her journey with the men in the caravan was frightening and savage, yet it completely opened a long-hidden facet in her character. The irony was that it took her to the point of no return. Once she was \\"saved,\\" it was sadly clear that no Westerner could possibly understand what she experienced, so it seemed fitting that Kit would just disappear into her own madness, or was it even madness?<br />Yes, I loved this novel--a gorgeous illustration of the cruel beauty of the desert and its culture. Such a seemingly benign environment was powerful enough to bring any arrogant Westerner physically and psychically, to his knees.	2003-05-05
US	45054283	R9J61SXQX3LFA	0375727132	750223073	The Dive From Clausen's Pier: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	A grueling test of patience	I didn't really like this novel very much. It moved ever so slowly, and almost every character completely annoyed me, until the very end, but that didn't make up for it as far as I was concerned.<br />Carrie was like a dead spirit who floated through life without questioning or doing anything. She just let things happen to her. The fact that Carrie already knew she fell out of love for her fiance 6 months preceding the accident gave me little sympathy for her situation. I also got the impression that she started in on a relationship with Kilroy a bit too soon, in keeping with her do-nothing/say-nothing policy. Plus I can't help but think that no matter what the situation was, she was utterly cold; cold to Mike, cold to Jamie, her supposed best friend, cold to the new acquaintances who so quickly took to her in NY. I realize that the Carrie was young--only 23, and abandoned by her father when she was a child, but after a while that's just not enough of an excuse anymore!<br />It seemed like the book would take a turn for the better once Carrie escaped to NY, but that became a source of even more exasperation. For example, Carrie reflected upon those \\"classic New York moments,\\" where obnoxious, pretentious people recite their thoughts on art and/or literature, or anything, with the sole purpose of sounding impressive through the use of multi-syllabic words. Sure those moments are unforgettable--unforgettably ridiculous--which brings to mind Woody Allen's truly unforgettable tirade while standing in line for the movies in \\"Annie Hall.\\" (Although the character Kilroy was well aware of these psuedo-intellectual idiosyncrasies).<br />That brings me to another important phase of the book: Kilroy. Kilroy was a giant creep (and that name...ugh!), who was supposed to be mysterious, but basically was just insufferable. Kilroy was obviously a childish, immature brat who refused to deal with his ghosts, and any of Carrie's attempts to build on anything but a sexual relationship was an infuriating failure. I still don't understand what Carrie's big attraction to this [person] was, except that maybe he was a safe haven of denial that she needed for the time being.<br />One of the biggest problems I had with this book was not only was almost every character was unlikeable, but 80% of the narrative occurred in Carrie's head. Already the story was depressing, coupled with very little dialogue, and very little action.<br />However, things became interesting when Carrie decided to take classes at Parsons, putting to use her obvious talent for sewing, or at least giving her talent some real dimension, some future. She finally started to move in some sort of direction. Yet even this section moved at a snail's pace.<br />The story finally (and definitely) picked up in part III (\\"Kilroy Was Here\\"--cute). Once Carrie left New York and went back to Madison to actually face her problems, everything suddenly seemed a whole lot more interesting. There was a lot more dialogue with Mike and his family and friends, and of course her attempts to mend her relationship with Jamie was a key growing factor for Carrie. Strangely enough, I think that Mike was the most interesting character, because he truly was the victim, and the outcome forced him to change so much. It was clear that he eventually brought out the best in Carrie, perhaps the best in everyone around him. Unfortunately, as much as I liked how the last section was written, it felt as if the author might have hastily attempted to wrap up the story. It didn't make up for the first 300 pages.was an infuriating failure. I still don't understand what Carrie's big attraction to this [person] was, except that maybe he was a safe haven of denial that she needed for the time being.<br />One of the biggest problems I had with this book was not only was almost every character was unlikeable, but 80% of the narrative occurred in Carrie's head. Already the story was depressing, coupled with very little dialogue, and very little action.<br />However, things became interesting when Carrie decided to take classes at Parsons, putting to use her obvious talent for sewing, or at least giving her talent some real dimension, some future. She finally started to move in some sort of direction. Yet even this section moved at a snail's pace.<br />The story finally (and definitely) picked up in part III (\\"Kilroy Was Here\\"--cute). Once Carrie left New York and went back to Madison to actually face her problems, everything suddenly seemed a whole lot more interesting. There was a lot more dialogue with Mike and his family and friends, and of course her attempts to mend her relationship with Jamie was a key growing factor for Carrie. Strangely enough, I think that Mike was the most interesting character, because he truly was the victim, and the outcome forced him to change so much. It was clear that he eventually brought out the best in Carrie, perhaps the best in everyone around him. Unfortunately, as much as I liked how the last section was written, it felt as if the author might have hastily attempted to wrap up the story. It didn't make up for the first 300 pages.	2003-04-16
US	45054283	R3PYKJY8O5I6T4	1559210346	801370412	A House Divided (Oriental Novels of Pearl S. Buck)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	An insightful adventure...	I would say that this book could certainly stand alone simply because there was so much happening in this turbulent setting of the revolution. In many ways \\"A House Divided\\" was my favorite of the \\"House of Earth\\" trilogy, (still, The Good Earth was beautiful!) because it was an adventure that spanned the globe. Yet there was no lack in telling how the main character evolved emotionally and intellectually from the first page to the last.<br />Many times throughout the book, Pearl Buck successfully showed how Yuan's world was filled with black and white; no grey. For example, a person was expected to be 100% revolutionary, or a 100% traditionalist. Or one had to be 100% Chinese, or 100% foreign. Yuan was a very conflicted man from the start and struggled with these issues pretty much until the end. To me that was the most intriguing part.<br />I was fascinated with Yuan's six-year stay in America. He experienced racism first-hand, the confusion of living in another country, trying to assimilate, seeing and appreciating the beauty of the country and the friendliness and openness of some of its people, the freedom to pursue one's happiness and potential, but clearly his own traditions and culture prevented him from fully accepting the foreigners into his heart.<br />I think the author gave some real insight into the minds of people living during the revolution. Many people, like Yuan's cousin, Meng, were fevently passionate about it. It was clear that it took a certain kind of person, with a linear, unwavering focus in order to hasten a violent change. In this case, that meant one had to be filled with anger and hatred.<br />Also through Yuan, we were exposed to the hypocrisy of the revolution as well. While the ideology spoke for the common people, the revolutionists were frustrated and repulsed by the common people's ways of life, such as they were for centuries. Eventually, many gave up on the older generation, and focused on the youth of the poor, because they were more easily influenced. Of course, it touched on the fact that no one was permitted to question this new state. Those who followed the cause were expected to accept it blindly.<br />In keeping with his torn mental state, Yuan's hesitation to decide where he stood in terms of the cause was understandable. His experience gave him first-hand knowledge of how frustrating it was to live under the old filial rules, yet he'd also witnessed the softer moments with his father, and others who represented the old world. He at least was mature enough to realize that people were deeply complicated, which made it impossible for him to truly believe that \\"rich people are evil, poor people are good.\\" At the same time, as much as he loved the land, and found peace of mind working among the common people, he was at times, disgusted by their surroundings, their \\"odor\\" permeating his space no matter where he went.<br />Pearl Buck eloquently described the same black and white issues of the heart in Yuan. Time and time again, he wished to be emotionally open, yet didn't dare. Yuan was repulsed by the display of free behavior of the new generation of China and the young Americans. Again, his reaction to the American women who danced with his cousin Sheng was an interesting glimpse into his perception of himself. Although Yuan hated the white women who ignored or rejected Sheng because he was Chinese, he had no respect for the white women who did dance with Sheng. And he felt ashamed for Sheng for \\"lowering his standards\\" to such women.<br />Yes, perhaps the end was unrealistic, but as a hopeless romantic American, I can appreciate it. However, one can see the huge circle this book fills out with the trilogy. Yuan is ultimately the one who understands and respects his grandfather's efforts with the land, back in the first novel. Yuan is the one who finally repairs the ties to his father and ends the cycle of broken relationships. The trilogy ends as his father, the Tiger, spends his finaldays in the earthen house where he was born.<br />When I read certain books, I sometimes imagine what they would be like on film, and I think it would be fantastic to see it done with the entire \\"House of Earth\\" trilogy. But then again, is it even possible to make a film that would do this epic justice?l days in the earthen house where he was born. <br />When I read certain books, I sometimes imagine what they would be like on film, and I think it would be fantastic to see it done with the entire \\"House of Earth\\" trilogy. But then again, is it even possible to make a film that would do this epic justice?	2003-04-10
US	45054283	R1T7GE62L4S9YE	1559210397	360972855	2: Sons (Good Earth Trilogy)	Books	5	91	93	N	N	Exciting story!	This second volume to the &quot;House of Earth Trilogy&quot; takes off right where &quot;The Good Earth&quot; ends. I was fortunate enough to find a copy with all three books in one so for me there was no space between the two. Written in the same style of the first novel, this story begins with the lives of three sons of Wang Lung: Wang the eldest (Landlord), Wang the second (Merchant) and particularly, Wang the third (The Tiger). By far the most important and interesting character in this book is Wang the Tiger, who became a powerful war lord. Much was written about his life and how he longed to live the life of a soldier, having nothing but disdain for the farmer's life his father wanted for him. It's an interesting irony, how none of the sons respected what Wang Lung, their father, had left for them. The eldest only interested in the façade of the rich life, the second only interested in money, and of course, the Tiger, whose main purpose was to be a strong and powerful leader.<br />It's an exciting and sad novel. Reading the evolution of the Tiger's rise to power made the Merchant's and Landlord's lives pale in comparison. Wang the Tiger was a most fascinating character, always obsessed with control not only of others, but of his own inner feelings. It was as if he was driven to be more than human...strong and willful, void of any weakness, void of any softness of heart, setting impossible standards for himself.<br />Once his son was born, he transferred all of his focus from warring, to raising his son as a warrior like himself. His love for his son, like his love for power, was unwavering, unbending, and suffocating. For example, this was evident in the times when the Tiger noticed that his little boy was so grave and quiet for one so young. Also, though his son did whatever he was told to do, he lacked any spirit or enjoyment in his tasks. Unfortunately, every time the Tiger saw this, he had a moment of clarity, but was quick to ignore or bury it, and thus never really attained the wisdom to forsee what would become of his only precious son.<br />This was a wonderful and exciting novel to read, very different and lively feeling to that of &quot;The Good Earth.&quot; Yet it's absolutely necessary to read it as part of the trilogy. Once you finish, you'll be anxious to know what becomes of the Tiger's son, and how the coming revolution will change their relationship.never really attained the wisdom to forsee what would become of his only precious son. <br />This was a wonderful and exciting novel to read, very different and lively feeling to that of &quot;The Good Earth.&quot; Yet it's absolutely necessary to read it as part of the trilogy. Once you finish, you'll be anxious to know what becomes of the Tiger's son, and how the coming revolution will change their relationship.	2003-04-07
US	45054283	R1UP16XU7X49AY	0671510126	412606618	The Good Earth (Enriched Classics)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An absolute MUST-READ...	This is a wonderful novel with many classic themes, surrounding the life of Wang Lung, who started out as a poor farmer in China, ending up as a father of six, and a wealthy landowner. Also, it's a alarming portrayal of what life was like in 19th century China. Reading this book sparks my interest not only in reading others by Pearl Buck, but also what life was like for the author growing up in China herself, though that's probably already been revealed in her novels.<br />One of the most beautiful themes in this book is the power of nature. Not only were everyone's lives at the mercy of the heavens and the land, but the land often, (though not always) reminded Wang Lung from where he came. Many times he forgot that everything that happened to this man related back to the earth. His luck, whether good or bad, his happiness, his frustration, could always be traced back to the earth.<br />This story has a lot of sad irony. One being that the grass was always greener on the other side for Wang Lung, plus the fact that he didn't appreciate what he had until it was gone. Wang Lung changed so much when his fortune improved, becoming callous and ungrateful for what he had. At times it seemed like he was happier when he was poor. O-Lan, his first wife, stood behind him from the beginning, and was many times the catalyst towards his rise to riches; bearing sons, silently taking care of him, his father, their children and their little home, stealing jewels when they were stranded in the city, relentlessly helping him in the fields. She was a picture of unbelievable strength, resolve, and selflessness. How quickly her husband forgot these things when times changed for the better, thus taking Lotus as his concubine. The most heartwrenching part of this book was O-lan, whose heart was broken time after time.<br />Pearl Buck wrote in such a simplistic, factual style, yet the story itself kept me glued from the very first page. Every now and then, however, she took my breath away with just a sentence that revealed so much emotion: \\"And out of his heaviness, there stood out strangely but one clear thought and it was a pain to him, and it was this, that he wished he had not taken the two pearls from O-Lan that day when she was washing his clothes at the pool, and he would never bear to see Lotus put them in her ears again.\\"<br />Though Wang Lung wasn't portrayed simply as a \\"bad\\" person. Like the earth itself, he had his faults and assets, and as he aged, he remembered these good things he had, when faced with new, more complicated troubles, involving his expanding family and wealth...his concubine, his slaves, his uncle and cousin, his sons now growing up in a wealthy household, becoming accustomed to standards much higher than Wang Lung ever experienced.<br />One thing I didn?t realize is that \\"The Good Earth\\" is the first of a trilogy centered on the family of Wang Lung. Now I'm reading \\"Sons,\\" of which I also can't put down, for entirely different reasons. However, I loved \\"The Good Earth.\\" It's a beautiful and enlightening story.with just a sentence that revealed so much emotion: \\"And out of his heaviness, there stood out strangely but one clear thought and it was a pain to him, and it was this, that he wished he had not taken the two pearls from O-Lan that day when she was washing his clothes at the pool, and he would never bear to see Lotus put them in her ears again.\\"<br />Though Wang Lung wasn't portrayed simply as a \\"bad\\" person. Like the earth itself, he had his faults and assets, and as he aged, he remembered these good things he had, when faced with new, more complicated troubles, involving his expanding family and wealth...his concubine, his slaves, his uncle and cousin, his sons now growing up in a wealthy household, becoming accustomed to standards much higher than Wang Lung ever experienced.<br />One thing I didn?t realize is that \\"The Good Earth\\" is the first of a trilogy centered on the family of Wang Lung. Now I'm reading \\"Sons,\\" of which I also can't put down, for entirely different reasons. However, I loved \\"The Good Earth.\\" It's a beautiful and enlightening story.	2003-04-02
US	45054283	R1Z70MFRFQUA90	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	4	7	10	N	N	An Exciting Story About a Biblical Character...	This is a story about a minor character from the book of Genesis in the Old Testament, Dinah, the only daughter of Jacob. BORING is what I initially thought. However, I couldn't be more mistaken! From the first page, the author drew me in, with stories about Dinah's four mothers and twelve brothers. Let's face it, any situation where a man is married to two sisters (and their handmaids) is going to be interesting!<br />One aspect of this novel which struck me most, is the depth of characters. When one hears biblical stories, people are depicted as extremely simple, hardened, tough, insensitive, very callous. Here, the author beautifully humanizes many of the characters, giving them so much depth and complexity, which makes the relationships so touching. There's joy, warmth, desire, anger, heartbreaking despair, throughout this story. Diamant brings alive the relationships between Jacob and his wives, Dinah and her aunties, brothers and her friends in particular.<br />Most of all, I was very surprised to see how powerful the women are in this novel. They're very close, helping each other, supporting each other through all of the major rites of passages in their lives; birth, first menstruation, marriage, motherhood, death. What's more is that each of these passages are celebrated in ritual, and highly regarded as a most important part of life. It's inspiring to see that women supported each other this way.<br />The way Diamant weaves her story into characters' lives as we know them in the Bible is fascinating. The Red Tent gives its own insights and histories into the major events from the Bible, such Joseph's falling into slavery and imprisonment, the reasons why Jacob changed his name to Israel, and of course, the slaughter of the men of Shechem, among other incidents. Again, I'm amazed at what research and imagination this author drew upon to tell such a captivating story.<br />It seems as though this novel was really written for women, or that women would probably get the most enjoyment out of it. However, I think that it would be an insightful read for men as well. And although it moves a little more slowly than other historical fiction, I still highly recommend this novel...it's a wonderful, exciting and tearful story.ly get the most enjoyment out of it. However, I think that it would be an insightful read for men as well. And although it moves a little more slowly than other historical fiction, I still highly recommend this novel...it's a wonderful, exciting and tearful story.	2003-03-09
US	45054283	R26SW1KMI7ZND5	0375421815	987113882	The Crazed: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Many layers, many turns of face...	This novel moves a lot slower than &quot;Waiting.&quot; There's a lot of literary lecture interspersed throughout the story, as it revolves around an old literature professor who suffers a stroke while his student/future-son-in-law is assigned to take care of him. The setting is in the late 80s during the student demonstrations against the Chinese government. There are a lot of references to re-education in the earliest days of the revolution, as well as how life in modern China affects everyone's lives, each in different ways. Also written are a lot of fascinating theories about the difference between Chinese and Western poetry.<br />For most of the story the main character, Jian Wan, similar to the protagonist in &quot;Waiting,&quot; seems conflicted, confused, and perhaps lacking in understanding of his teacher's suffering. However, as the story progresses, the writer slowly transforms Jian. At first he's a promising, arrogant scholar, so certain of his path to follow in the footsteps of Professor Yang. Yet little by little, he agonizes over solving the puzzle of his teacher's rantings, and left with only more questions, until he finally questions his own career. When once Jian was clearly ready to take on the role of the intellectual, living in a communist regime which doesn't respect intellectuals, he now wonders if his life would indeed have more meaning if he took an official role in the government, so he could actually make a difference in people's lives. Such a strong reverse in decision would possibly end his impending marriage, and change his life completely.<br />The end of this book illustrates how much an oppressive regime determine's the course of one's life, no matter how much a citizen tries to work within the system. No matter how much a citizen tries to just do his own work and mind his own business, it seems that his life will always be affected by the decisions of those around him, and those decisions in turn, are affected by one's own personal gain. Certainly, making this realization, knowing you have no freedom, no choices in how to live your life, can drive a person crazy.<br />The story really didn't pick up until the last third. In fact, everything pretty much led up to the climax of the abominations at Beijing. At first it was just a setting, a description in the background, but by the end it became the center of the story. I think this was the most riveting part of the novel. Ha Jin's description of the demonstrations and massacre in Beijing were shocking and horrifying. The fate of Jian Wan was like the beginning of a whole new adventure. I would love to see a sequel to this novel.<br />&quot;The Crazed&quot; is definitely a lot more of a challenging read than &quot;Waiting,&quot; and I think it takes a bit of patience and perseverance to get through it in order to reach the exciting and dramatic conclusion. However, I give it five stars simply because I think the last couple of chapters were a great reward.gain. Certainly, making this realization, knowing you have no freedom, no choices in how to live your life, can drive a person crazy.<br />The story really didn't pick up until the last third. In fact, everything pretty much led up to the climax of the abominations at Beijing. At first it was just a setting, a description in the background, but by the end it became the center of the story. I think this was the most riveting part of the novel. Ha Jin's description of the demonstrations and massacre in Beijing were shocking and horrifying. The fate of Jian Wan was like the beginning of a whole new adventure. I would love to see a sequel to this novel.<br />&quot;The Crazed&quot; is definitely a lot more of a challenging read than &quot;Waiting,&quot; and I think it takes a bit of patience and perseverance to get through it in order to reach the exciting and dramatic conclusion. However, I give it five stars simply because I think the last couple of chapters were a great reward.	2003-02-19
US	45054283	R3JY8GC7AU0HKM	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Funny and Shocking!	I had some reservations about this novel. Just from looking at the cover, I had a feeling that it would be another Bridget-Jonesy type of book (which is fine; I loved Bridget Jones, but wasn't sure I wanted to read another of that genre). However, I went ahead and read it because I'd been reading a lot of really heavy, depressing novels lately and I needed a pick-me-up, something that would make me laugh. The Nanny Diaries was an excellent choice.<br />As a mom, you hear all sorts of stories, and see many other mothers who fit the descriptions in this book exactly. I think that?s what I loved most about it...to see a nanny make fun of upscale moms who have babies (for what reason, we don't know) and then hand them off to nannies to raise, while the mothers go shopping, get manicures, go to parties, go off to the Caribbean, etc. The style in which McLaughlin and Kraus describe this sad and offensive phenomenon is totally hilarious.<br />I also love their references to life among the elite residing on Park Avenue, from their toddlers' (I mean, UNDER five years old) ridiculous schedules (French, piano, karate, etc.) to their macrobiotic diets (mind you, the moms never actually cook like this?only \\"the help\\"), to their names...Grayer? Benson? Cristabelle?? It's a wonderful look on how an insane amount of money and living in the world of the social elite can really warp one's grip on reality.<br />The story revolves around Nan, a young, soon-to-be graduating student from NYU, who is hired to take care of four-year-old Grayer X. As she develops her relationship with Grayer, she is suddenly witness to a romantic interlude that Mr. X has with his work colleague. Nan continues to work under these awkward conditions, until Mrs. X finds out that her marriage is crumbling.<br />The way things progressed in this story was kind of shocking because as much as Mrs. X was selfish, clueless and completely uncool as a mother, let alone as a human being, it was funny. It made me laugh. Yet near the end, she started to resemble the evil, wicked stepmother from \\"Cinderella.\\" She and her husband's behaviors were shocking and disturbing. Unfortunately, I can't say that it was unrealistic because I've actually seen people act this way. The most interesting thing about this book was the way Nan's and Grayer's relationship developed and evolved. Also his parents' lack of attention to his needs increasingly affected him in such a blatant, obvious way. Yet instead of actually spending more time with him, they blamed Nan for not taking her job seriously. That was maddening!<br />The fact that the authors were nannies themselves proves that they had a wealth of experience to draw upon and I'm sure that although this is a work of fiction, much of the material didn't just come out of nowhere. It really drives the point home that nannies deserve a little respect for their profession, they're doing some pretty hard work. In addition, it shows very clearly that firing/hiring caretakers every year or so has such a unnecessary and traumatic effect on children.<br />I'd also like to add that as an ordinary mother (without a nanny), reading this book made me feel like the quintessential supermom. So if anything, get it for that reason!. Yet near the end, she started to resemble the evil, wicked stepmother from \\"Cinderella.\\" She and her husband's behaviors were shocking and disturbing. Unfortunately, I can't say that it was unrealistic because I've actually seen people act this way. The most interesting thing about this book was the way Nan's and Grayer's relationship developed and evolved. Also his parents' lack of attention to his needs increasingly affected him in such a blatant, obvious way. Yet instead of actually spending more time with him, they blamed Nan for not taking her job seriously. That was maddening!<br />The fact that the authors were nannies themselves proves that they had a wealth of experience to draw upon and I'm sure that although this is a work of fiction, much of the material didn't just come out of nowhere. It really drives the point home that nannies deserve a little respect for their profession, they're doing some pretty hard work. In addition, it shows very clearly that firing/hiring caretakers every year or so has such a unnecessary and traumatic effect on children.<br />I'd also like to add that as an ordinary mother (without a nanny), reading this book made me feel like the quintessential supermom. So if anything, get it for that reason!	2003-02-07
US	45054283	R3BXT2OURWID2F	0679750150	483468836	The Sailor Who Fell from Grace with the Sea	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Hazards of "Selling Out!"	This novel was haunting and disturbing. Actually, by the time I finished it, I felt pretty depressed! The story is about a thirteen year-old boy, Noboru, and his mother, Fusako, who becomes involved with a sailor, Ryuji. The problem is the boy runs with a group of kids who basically believe that life is meaningless and ultimately we're headed for death. Often I was reminded of William Golding's \\"Lord of the Flies,\\" only because they were so brutal in their thinking. They were like a group of kids who fell through the cracks, either due to abuse or neglect at home, and therefore were left to fend for themselves. Obviously they were very bright, but that, combined with growing up without any direction whatsoever, was a dangerous combination.<br />At first the Noboru is impressed with the Ryuji because of his life at sea, isolated, filled with adventure, void of contact with the rest of the world. Noboru sees it as heroic, the antithesis of the \\"silly\\" world of men and women, adults and children. However, as Ryuji becomes more seriously involved with Fusako, it becomes increasingly clear that he will give up his life at sea to live a more settled, married life with her. In Noboru's eyes, and those of his friends', Ryuji has degenerated into a figure who is beyond hope, beyond saving.<br />What's most upsetting is that one can see that Noboru struggles between his feelings for Ryuji and his beliefs he shares with his gang. His age betrays how impressionable he really is. There are times when he is truly delighted with Ryuji's stories, but every time Ryuji attempts to reach a higher level with Noboru, (either that of a friend, or of father to son) Noboru backs off and is either intimidated, or just disgusted.<br />I can sort of see where this might play into the writer's own issues. He was not satisfied with the social/political state of Japan, which ultimately led to his suicide in 1970. He had problems with the fact that he was unable to serve in the Japanese military, and I understand that his own father did not respect Mishima's desire to write. So with that in mind, one can see a lot of parallels to some of the issues in this book. One that stood out in my mind is how Noburu's gang felt such alienation and contempt for their parents, rather, any adult, who became a part of the \\"system.\\"y, and I understand that his own father did not respect Mishima's desire to write. So with that in mind, one can see a lot of parallels to some of the issues in this book. One that stood out in my mind is how Noburu's gang felt such alienation and contempt for their parents, rather, any adult, who became a part of the \\"system.\\"	2003-01-22
US	45054283	R2KPWZGKBHMH2E	0151004439	877433184	Snow Falling on Cedars: Movie Tie-in Edition	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Worth finishing, but could've been better...	The story itself was riveting. It revolves around the trial of a Japanese-American accused of murdering a fellow fisherman, in a small island in the Puget Sound, in 1954. Part of the story involves Ishmael, a veteran of the war, now a journalist, who struggles with his love for the wife of the accused, as well as making peace with his own past.<br />I liked how the author developed these three characters. To me that was the most interesting part of the story; the evolution of this first love between Ishmael Chambers and Hatsue Imada, beginning in their childhood, only to be crushed during the onset of WWII. Also I was fascinated by the history of the accused man, Kabuo Miyamoto; his years growing up working on a strawberry farm with his family, his experiences fighting for the U.S. in Europe, and his promise to himself to obtain seven acres of the strawberry farm.<br />There were a few factors that influenced my overall feelings about the novel. The main one was that I had to wade through pages and pages of setting descriptions in order to get to the meat of the story. Generally, I love descriptions but it just seemed like much of it was superfluous. (With the exceptions of the author's illustrations of Ishmael's experience at war, and Hatsue's experience at Manzanar. Both were incredibly detailed and shocking, but written so beautifully.) Two: I was disturbed at how selfish Ishmael was. Obviously he was bitter after Hatsue ended their relationship, bitter from losing his arm during the war, but in spite of his harrowing and sorrowful experiences, I was surprised to find him holding someone's exoneration in his pocket, and not knowing what to do next. That leads me to the next question, why was it that Ishmael was the only person in the story to think of looking for evidence at the lighthouse? It seems to me to be a very accurate resource in a case involving an accident or homicide at sea. Still, in spite of these issues, I'm glad I finished it, but I wish the author took less time to tell the story.or took less time to tell the story.	2003-01-15
US	45054283	R36TR3BA8FFCNV	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	5	0	1	N	N	More brilliance by Irving	So far, I've enjoyed everything I've read by John Irving, and this novel was no exception. I'm not going to say that it ranks up there with Cider House Rules, but still, it's brilliant. Irving is a wonderful storyteller. He also has this incredible ability to draw each and every character (and there are so many!) so completely.<br />It's mainly the story of Ruth Cole, a young girl who grew up with her father, after her mother left her at the age of four. The other main character in this book is Eddie O'Hare, whom, at the age of sixteen, fell forever in love with Marion (Ruth's mother), just before she abandoned her daughter and husband. There are lots of other characters and substories, which all tie and untie throughout the novel. There are many Irving-like forshadowing elements, twists and turns in the relationships which evolve over thirty-something years. The story takes you beyond the Atlantic Ocean to Amsterdam, where even more new characters enter the picture. Of course, the novel is filled with dark humor in relation to life growing up in New England, being a writer (I love his constant remarks about how the literati look down upon autobiographical or &quot;real life&quot; fiction), being married, being single, etc.<br />I enjoyed being reminded of some of his other works. For example, he described a story that Ruth Cole wrote, which bore a striking resemblance to Cider House Rules, and again there was reference to a story which sounded a lot like The World According to Garp. These are just little things though. Another aspect of this novel that I enjoyed was that the characters were a little older than those I've read recently. Most of these characters are in their late 30s, 40s, upwards to 70s. It's a nice change to read about this group of people and their issues.<br />A great read. Once again, I couldn't put it down and was surprised many times throughout this novel. The end slowed down a bit, yet Irving even managed to insert something absolutely poignant in the very last page. It's wonderful.ant in the very last page. It's wonderful.	2003-01-07
US	45054283	RE7ZSQHTK62HX	0375700528	400024285	The Lover	Books	5	50	51	N	N	Beautifully Written	I read this book in one day. This was my first introduction to Duras. What an incredible story! Her writing is like poetry, like a song, filled with lyrical descriptions of her surroundings as well as her feelings, filled with gorgeous imagery and constant forshadowing towards the demise of her own family.<br />The story itself would be totally unacceptable by today's (or the entire 20th century's) standards, being that of an illicit love affair, set in prewar Indochina (today's Vietnam) between a 15-year-old French girl and a 27-year-old Chinese son of a millionaire. However, it is what it is, it happened, and the way the story is told is beautiful and impassioned.<br />What's most amazing here is the evolution of the girl's psyche. In many ways, she was obviously mature way beyond her years, fatalistic and dark, all brought on by the loneliness and frustration of life with her mother and brothers. At the same time, she was naive in the sense that she thought she was strong enough to handle this affair without falling in love. The girl tried to convince herself that money was the only objective in this affair (when in fact, money was the only reason why her mother(!) allowed her to continue see her lover--ouch!).<br />Duras' writing reminds me of that of Maxine Hong Kingston's (or is it vice versa?). Many thoughts are repeated throughout the pages, like refrains or choruses. She switches the narrative from first to third person. She switches time frames from past to present and back again. It's as if the whole novel was written completely stream-of-consciousness, or possibly a parallel to the unpredictable horrors of her own mother's madness.<br />The young girl grew up in a sad, unloving and erratic home, with an unstable mother, whose unhealthy allegience to her devious and abusive older brother created an almost intolerable environment for the author and her younger brother. Additionally, the time frame was such that a relationship between a white woman and a Chinese man, (let's face it: An adolescent and a grown man) was completely reprehensible. In the face of all these obstacles, it was clear that the author sought refuge with this young man, and that for her, this first taste of sexual passion would be the standard in which all of her future loves would be measured. She never sugar-coated the various facets to this affair, the degrading moments, the moments where the love and passion was so infinite, or when the roles of power and possession were reversed from time to time. Yet, it's clear that this affair, which lasted a year-and-a-half, was very deep and meaningful to both parties, a tragic and impossible love that would haunt them both for the rest of their lives.hinese man, (let's face it: An adolescent and a grown man) was completely reprehensible. In the face of all these obstacles, it was clear that the author sought refuge with this young man, and that for her, this first taste of sexual passion would be the standard in which all of her future loves would be measured. She never sugar-coated the various facets to this affair, the degrading moments, the moments where the love and passion was so infinite, or when the roles of power and possession were reversed from time to time. Yet, it's clear that this affair, which lasted a year-and-a-half, was very deep and meaningful to both parties, a tragic and impossible love that would haunt them both for the rest of their lives.	2003-01-01
US	45054283	R2J43TRXNOAJO2	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Not What I Expected!	I loved this book. I couldn't put it down! However, I wanted to give it only four stars because it didn't end the way I expected...at all! (That alone means it deserves five stars!) I was so disappointed, so angry at the ending. I wanted the book to continue for another 200 pages! Alas, that wasn't my decision to make so whether or not the review has four or five stars means nothing because it's still a lovely novel.<br />Sijie's writing is beautifully-descriptive, and he is a wonderful storyteller. His words fill the reader with anticipation of what would become of his character's struggles during their \\"re-education\\" in China. All along I couldn't wait to find out what would happen to them. That's why I was so disappointed at the end. I couldn't possibly say what it is. Suffice it to say that it broke my heart.<br />In terms of his style, his descriptions of the narrator's experience with the miller in the mountain (with the lice in particular) were so grotesque, it made me shiver. Again, his descriptions of their labor of carrying dung buckets up the mountain were so real and horrifying.<br />There's a sudden change of narrative to three other characters halfway through the book, which was a nice change of pace. Those three chapters brought the reader directly into another time frame, another setting, as if the reader was in the same room, listening to these characters' stories.<br />The story itself is captivating enough. I found myself dying to know what would happen to the narrator and Luo. Would they finally be able to finish their re-education and leave the fields? What would become of Luo's and the Seamstress' love? Would the Seamstress fall for the narrator? In what other ways would the discovery of Four Eyes' stack of Western classic literature change the course of Luo's and the narrator's lives? One can never guess how this story will end.<br />I look forward to any future work by this author.	2002-12-21
US	45054283	R2B4IKCG6Y2EJE	0679721886	892228642	The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Most Unique Memoir of Growing Up Chinese-American.	Very challenging book to read. The author seamlessly weaves her own experiences in with the fantastic tales passed down by her mother. Sometimes you forget what's real and what's not. By the end, the reader really gets a sense of how alienated the narrator felt, growing up amid the old Chinese traditions in America.<br />Kingston's writing is different from anything I've read. She makes no bones about describing how badly girls were regarded or treated. Her stories are angry and powerful. One of my favorites was the retelling of the legend of Fa Mu Lan (THE woman warrior), but even the stories of the author's mother as a medical student, the sad story of the aunt coming to America to reclaim her husband, were very exciting. The end of the book was a very emotional chapter, and I loved how the author tied the entire book together. I couldn't put this book down.	2002-12-14
US	45054283	R1H82C58L4C331	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Short and Sweet	I enjoyed these two short stories, both about how two young women grieve over the death of their loved ones. Yoshimoto's writing is like poetry, filled with imagery and emotion. Still, it's not lofty by any means. Her style is so clear and down-to-earth, often humorous, and appropriate to her characters' lives: Young and living in the city. These stories went very quickly for me but were very thoughtful, and left me wanting more.	2002-11-26
US	45054283	R2TFMJ830RTBSZ	1573227331	602052020	About a Boy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hilarious and Perceptive	I wish I read this book BEFORE the movie came out. Although I hadn't seen the movie yet, and I'm glad of this, I still had the image of Hugh Grant as Will throughout this story, which isn't fair. I like having my own ideas of what the characters look like when I read a story. Oh well...<br />Despite the Hugh Grant image, I enjoyed this novel very much. I think that Nick Hornby has a gift of taking very typical problems and solving them in a very unusual way. Just like in his other novel, \\"How To Be Good,\\" one expects things to turn out a certain way, and they don't. Hornby refuses to cater our want for cliche endings, I can see that now. He's very realistic in his resolutions, but fortunately, just because they're realistic outcomes doesn't mean that they're depressing!<br />Immediately I was attracted to the setting of this story. Taking place in the early 90s, drawing largely on popular music and culture at that time, I could totally relate, as a young twenty-something (sniff, sniff...those were the days) in that decade. Anyway there was a nice parallel between the lives of the main characters, Will, Fiona, twelve-year-old Marcus, his school friend, Ellie, and Kurt Cobain of Nirvana. To me, that parallel was how much life in general just traumatizes people and how each person deals with it, each in a very unique way. Some people cry, some hide away, some may choose to turn to stone emotionally, some lash out at the world, some kill themselves.<br />The two big relationships here that most interested me were the one of course, between Will and Marcus, and the one between Marcus and his mom.<br />I just chuckled at the fact that Will, a shallow and totally insensitive guy, decided to pretend to have a son so he could meet single moms, who, according to his theory, were so grateful to have a man in their lives, were extremely generous in all aspects of romantic relationships. Then he met Marcus by accident and formed a bond which forced Will to care about people besides himself. This opened him up to all sorts of feelings for which he wasn't prepared. However, one can clearly see that his life became much richer in the process of opening himself up to more risky situations.<br />I like the development of Marcus, especially in terms of his relationship with his mom, Fiona. It never occurred to me that Marcus' vegetarian diet, his preoccupation for 70s music, and his lack of thought about his appearance, etc., were his mother's issues, forced upon him, without his even realizing it. So at what point would he become independent? At what point would he make his own decisions? Not only that, but because his mom made a point of not letting him fall prey to mainstream trends, she inadvertantly made him an outcast at school...which was even worse for a kid his age! Top that with the fact that they?d just moved to a new school, and his father was no longer in the picture. Basically, this illustration made me think about the kid's view a lot more closely. Whereas my own less significant beliefs are so important to me, how do they apply to my own child? I took many of these little things for granted and reading this story made me really sit and think about this! That's great!<br />Nick Hornby's novels are very perceptive, very funny (I laughed out loud several times), and these days, very universal. Anyone can appreciate the characters he creates. Anyone can relate to the situations in which the characters find themselves.ides himself. This opened him up to all sorts of feelings for which he wasn't prepared. However, one can clearly see that his life became much richer in the process of opening himself up to more risky situations. <br />I like the development of Marcus, especially in terms of his relationship with his mom, Fiona. It never occurred to me that Marcus' vegetarian diet, his preoccupation for 70s music, and his lack of thought about his appearance, etc., were his mother's issues, forced upon him, without his even realizing it. So at what point would he become independent? At what point would he make his own decisions? Not only that, but because his mom made a point of not letting him fall prey to mainstream trends, she inadvertantly made him an outcast at school...which was even worse for a kid his age! Top that with the fact that they?d just moved to a new school, and his father was no longer in the picture. Basically, this illustration made me think about the kid's view a lot more closely. Whereas my own less significant beliefs are so important to me, how do they apply to my own child? I took many of these little things for granted and reading this story made me really sit and think about this! That's great!<br />Nick Hornby's novels are very perceptive, very funny (I laughed out loud several times), and these days, very universal. Anyone can appreciate the characters he creates. Anyone can relate to the situations in which the characters find themselves.	2002-11-15
US	45054283	RW43A6G7Z9W4F	0345353617	890072464	The Women's Room	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Profound and Revealing	This novel really opened my eyes. It was a mammoth and challenging read in the sense that it contained over 600 pages of unhappy marriages, unhappy lives, due to people who married out of tradition rather than love. Even the word love itself had a different meaning in this setting. Love between a man and woman apparently had nothing to do with respect or friendship. The relationships were degrading, unequal, unfair.<br />I had to keep reminding myself that this was published in 1977, because frankly (I know this may sound naive), I was shocked at the illustration of Mira's childhood/college years/married years, as well as those of her contemporaries. I was moved by her descriptions of the ignorant and sexist attitudes of the middle class, of men and how they viewed not only women at large, but even their own mothers, wives, and daughters. One of the issues I had while reading this book was dealing with the fact that my own experience was nothing like this, nor was my mother's, nor was even her mother's.<br />In any case, reading this made me feel so lucky to be a part of the present generation. It answered a lot of questions as to how the women's movement was born and evolved. However, it's so sad because you see this group of women: Mira, Val, Kyla, Clarissa, (not Iso--she knew she was different and therefore never expected to have a normal mainstream life, so she probably came out the least unscathed!), these women fought and clawed their way to a free independent life, only to find themselves hardened, wounded, bitter and in some cases, alone...because although they successfully changed their own lives for the better, society wasn't ready to accept this change in women, and wouldn't for another decade at least.<br />Of course this is a novel about the women's movement, so I guess it's no surprise that every single man in this book is completely one-dimensional and shallow (with perhaps the exception of Mira's sons and Chris's friend Bart). I have to assume that this was the writer's experience even though it seemed extreme, unfair, and inaccurate. Of course, it wasn't hard to hate men who basically believed that raping his wife was his right, and that lesbianism was not to be taken seriously, or that women who want to do something other than take care of the home and raise kids were selfish, ridiculous or even crazy. The author was a master at creating this feeling.<br />I think that Marilyn French also illustrates pretty clearly, that we all ultimately make our choices, and live with them. However, society plays such a huge role in how we decide. Society brainwashes from childbirth how one should live his/her life, and perhaps we need to think for ourselves a little more. It's our choice, do we do what society expects us to do? Or do we decide for ourselves, and deal with society's \\"raised eyebrows?\\" What's it worth?<br />The narration was great. I like the fact that the entire experience was told in the third person, causing the reader to wonder, \\"Who is this telling the story? Who is this speaking?\\" To some it's obvious. To me, I didn't figure it out until the end. Oh well! Either way, I think it was necessary for the story to be told in third person, to maintain that sense of honest objectivity.<br />Mira was a wonderful character: On a voyage of self-exploration, meeting all sorts of people who influenced her and taught her one aspect of life or another. Another strong character of course was Val, the ultimate martyr. She was almost too much to handle, but in a way her excessiveness forced people to see the corruption in the world. She had her classic flaws, but she was the true passionate voice of women, speaking only the truth, never accepting any less.<br />There's a LOT of philosophical discussions throughout the book (what else would a bunch of brandy-drinking Harvard grad students talk about in the 60s/70s?!) The writing could easily provoke feelings of exasperation at Val's hatred, for example, her passionate disdain at the social \\"norms.\\" In addition, all the women, Mira, Kyla, Lily, Adele's blind acceptance of their religion, their parents' traditions, their husbands' behaviors, their passivity--is enough to appaul even the most understanding reader. But let's face it, I cared enough about these characters to keep trudging through the muck, and in the end, I'd say that this novel was profound. In 1977, it must've had a gigantic effect on our culture.disdain at the social \\"norms.\\" In addition, all the women, Mira, Kyla, Lily, Adele's blind acceptance of their religion, their parents' traditions, their husbands' behaviors, their passivity--is enough to appaul even the most understanding reader. But let's face it, I cared enough about these characters to keep trudging through the muck, and in the end, I'd say that this novel was profound. In 1977, it must've had a gigantic effect on our culture.	2002-11-07
US	45054283	R1W5Z0SBQSHWPD	0811213129	830023794	Patriotism	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Beautiful Account of Devotion	My short story class was assigned to read \\"Patriotism,\\" and I was so thankful because now I've been introduced to yet another fantastic writer.<br />Yes, maybe the idea of a wife following her husband in suicide out of honor and devotion seems preposterous today, but the way it was written was so undeniably beautiful. Mishima writes in a way that makes the reader completely understand why his characters do what they do. No one could argue that the whole act was utterly noble and selfless. The descriptions of the love and mutual respect in Shinji's and Reiko's marriage  was heavenly, almost unreal--yet its rarity doesn't make the reader laugh. Again, it was written so that one is convinced that this is a marriage exemplifying the \\"harmony\\" we all seek between two people.<br />Basically I was in awe of the descriptions in this story--such beautiful, powerful imagery in the lovemaking scene, as well as the final act of death. Mishima fills his phrases with so much emotion, that as Shinji's end drew near, I was literally brought to tears.<br />Part of the beauty in this story was in the translation. I'll bet that Sargeant probably best captured the essence of Mishima's words more than anyone could. I've heard that there are some pretty bad translations of foreign work so I think it's safe to say that Sargeant would be the translator to look for when reading Mishima's work.<br />Though this story was set in the 30s, Mishima wrote it in 1966. I wonder what inspired him to write it. I don't know what was going on politically in Japan in the 60s. Perhaps the political turmoil in the United States may have affected Japan's psyche. Either way, what surprises me even more is the fact that this story was written so late in the 20th Century!<br />I highly recommend \\"Patriotism.\\" It's a wonderful illustration of devotion in its many forms. I loved it, and now I'm going to read other stories by this author!	2002-10-21
US	45054283	R38YKWFYNQIZP6	0375413278	552341911	Rapture	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Disappointing	I picked up this book at the airport a while ago. It's interesting in that the entire story takes place during one rendevouz; in particular, a session in fellatio. There are flashbacks to help develop the characters and plot. However, it's one of those stories that doesn't really have a story. It's about a relationship that seemed to end, but not quite yet. It goes nowhere, like the characters.<br />Minot goes into great detail in her descriptions of what goes through the characters' minds, which is what ultimately drives the book. Eventually, however, I just found it tedious. Kay was a fully developed character, but Benjamin was totally unlikeable, too afraid to face his feelings, too lazy to do the right thing, too apathetic to do anything about his life. In the end, nothing was accomplished, nothing was resolved. Basically all that was proven is that people use each other no matter how wrong they know it is, or how ashamed it makes them feel.<br />I think that it must be very difficult to write books like this and I have to give credit to Minot for trying. It's hard to write a story based on whatever's going through one or two character's minds, without it sounding completely self-centered. After a while you can see that they spend so much time thinking and dwelling on things that they fail to take any action to move the relationship or situation, into ANY direction. Basically, to me it read like a story that had no plot. It's actually hard for me to even call it a story. It was more or less a vignette about a doomed couple, void of any kind of passion or even emotion, and void of a future. Strangely enough, it wasn't even frustrating, just very boring.	2002-10-13
US	45054283	R2XLYHNE6UPX9N	0140185429	705206507	Loser Takes All (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Clever Story	Obviously Graham Greene is a great storyteller. There's a lot of sarcasm in his writing, which I love. This is about a mediocre accountant, Bertram, marrying for the second time to a women much younger than himself. They are both stranded in Monte Carlo, and much to his new wife's chagrin, he becomes obsessed with a gambling system which starts to work for him. \\"Loser Takes All\\" has a good twist at the end. Actually, I was surprised by the end of this book, not only by what happened, but how the tone seemed to change completely. I fully expected something different.<br />Maybe the story itself didn't interest me all that much. I wouldn't say it was fantastic or anything. It was all right. Still, this was the first Graham Greene book I've read, and I'm sure it won't be the last.	2002-10-07
US	45054283	R2S8WHMS0C3FXP	0140481389	907196342	The Crucible (Penguin Plays)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Classic, timeless and important piece of work!	This story made my jaw drop to the ground...several times! What a frightening play! The message is timeless. Although it was written during the McCarthy era, it is appropriate for even these days...given the state of foreign policy in our country, and the popularity of Jerry Springer shows for example, where mob rules.<br />I was horrified at the ignorance, the hipocracy, the will for personal vengeance that the characters displayed. It's a perfect example of how we as people do NOT learn from our mistakes, and that as a society, events like the salem witch trials continually repeat themselves in many forms, exposing how hell-bent we are to destroy each other!<br />I've never seen this performed onscreen nor onstage but now I can't wait until the opportunity arises, because I'm sure that when The Crucible is performed, it will be utterly powerful. I hope that theaters will continue to produce this play forever, because no one should forget the irreparable damage that fear and ignorance can cause.	2002-10-02
US	45054283	R2ZJSMFUN8IGSP	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Less is Most Certainly More!	I don't know why it took me this long to discover this book, but I think it's wonderful. Furthermore, if it isn't already, I think that \\"The Alchemist\\" should be required reading in high school English Literature. Everyone can learn so much from this. I loved this book because there are so many life lessons in this simple story of a young man's journey to find his treasure, to fulfill his \\"personal legend.\\" Written here are so many different philosophies by how one chooses to live his life.<br />The descriptions of the desert are beautiful. As are the references to nature and its power, its ability to teach us and how we should respect nature. As opposed to the ocean, or the forest, the desert was a wonderful backdrop to this story.<br />Paulo Coelho speaks of marveling at the beauty all around us, but never forgetting what brought us to the point of appreciating that beauty. He reminds us of how children are so honest, open, and most authentic. Children would be the only ones who know what their dreams are. Yet as children grow, they become concerned with doing \\"what others think they should do,\\" and ultimately live according to someone else's rules, and sacrificing their own dreams.<br />Another habit we lose as we grow, is listening to our hearts. Coelho illustrates so convincingly the importance of knowing yourself, and listening to your heart, thus the answers always reveal themselves to you, be it through your heart, or signs from the world around you.<br />Similar to Homer's \\"Odyssey,\\" Santiago met many characters throughout his journey, all of whom offered something special. I have to say, however, that I really enjoyed The Englishman the most. I think this section of the novel was the most humorous as well. I thought it was funny how the Englishman and Santiago were both essentially working to fulfill their personal legends. The Englishman, however, completely missed the point of his search. He often contradicted himself, never hearing subtle signs around him. He was easily irritable, impatient, focused on texts and formulas, rather than learning from the more intangible concepts. His goal was to learn alchemy literally; turning lead into gold. He was frustrated with the fact that Santiago couldn't understand the scientific complexities of alchemy, whereas \\"the boy\\" was turning out to be the true alchemist, by way of listening to his heart, and the world around him. It was a hilarious parallel actually!<br />Also, I think it's interesting how the author always referred to Santiago as \\"the boy,\\" a student of life, always learning. The character of \\"the Englishman\\" also made me wonder if he was a political reference, citing the English rule of many African territories? Could he have been a satirical reference to \\"the imperialist who was unappreciative of the beauty of the world outside his home?\\" He was described as the educated and knowledgeable one, yet in fact there was so much that he did not know! It seemed like a nice juxtaposition: The Englishman's conquering of the mystery behind alchemy vs. the imperialist quest to conquer more unknown land. However, I should remind myself that all but a few of the characters were nameless. My interpretation is that names were unimportant because the story, the journey, was meant to be applied to every person in the world. But that's another facet I like about \\"The Alchemist.\\" It's open to all sorts of interpretation!<br />It's about evolving from within, moving from ordinary to extraordinary. It's about having the faith in oneself and faith in the world to evolve! The objective is to strive to become better than what we are, and then everything around us will become better, because everything in the world is connected, or \\"one.\\" In a time when we are used to instant-gratification through technology, we've forgotten, or don't even consider the language of the world, the soul of the world, the unspoken language of love and omens. It's so easy to get caught up with the day-to-dayactivities of our lives, \\"The Alchemist\\" is a nice reminder that we, too, can fulfill our personal legends.<br />This novel is so profound, so completely positive, and so very kharmic. It can be applied to pretty much every facet of life! What's even better about it is that it's not hiding behind some lofty, complicated, epic of a novel. It's just a simple story. I highly recommend finding the time to read it all in one sitting. It's only 167 pages so it's not that difficult a task to accomplish!y activities of our lives, \\"The Alchemist\\" is a nice reminder that we, too, can fulfill our personal legends.<br />This novel is so profound, so completely positive, and so very kharmic. It can be applied to pretty much every facet of life! What's even better about it is that it's not hiding behind some lofty, complicated, epic of a novel. It's just a simple story. I highly recommend finding the time to read it all in one sitting. It's only 167 pages so it's not that difficult a task to accomplish!	2002-10-01
US	45054283	R2A95K6ONHUCU	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	1	3	N	N	All possible emotions wrapped into one novel!	I am astonished by Alice Sebold's imagination. Her vision of heaven and souls is wonderfully convincing, down to the smallest real-life details, such as the \\"cold chill,\\" worked into her illustration of the movement of souls. Sebold's description of life in heaven is understandable that souls can't physically change things the way they could on Earth, yet their position is still so powerful in that they can see everything that happens, not only physically, but mentally as well. In this story, it's both awe-inspiring, and heartbreaking. The telling a story through the eyes of a young girl (who happens to be dead), casts a whole new spin on the novel.<br />It's true that the beginning of the novel is shocking and difficult to read, but I think it was a necessary beginning, and perfectly written too. Sebold wrote the incident that highlights the brutal reality that happens on Earth, yet she wrote it eloquently. Plus it brings you so close to Susie right from the beginning, wanting almost to protect her in some way.<br />Susie Salmon seems perceptive beyond her years, and it makes me wonder if in Sebold's mind, a traumatic event that Susie experienced will automatically force her to grow up in a short amount of time. Or does being a soul in heaven cause one to be more reflective, more attentive to the details of life on earth? Or maybe, was Susie herself an especially intelligent and sensitive fourteen-year old, unique to other kids her age?<br />It's a very positive outlook on life after death. A touching look at the many ways people live with grief and eventually move forward. So many good people's lives Susie affected while on Earth, yet after she left, the various turns they took was baffling. My favorite character was Ruth, an odd girl who was one of the very few people who could sense Susie nearby. Constantly writing in her journal, she was able to see much of what Susie could see from Heaven. Susie's mother was most perplexing. She couldn't stand the constant reminders of her deceased daughter, and sought to escape through adultery, and eventually left her family altogether. Through all of her vastly different characters, Susie?s father, Jack Salmon, who never gave up solving the mystery behind her death, the emotionally strong younger sister Lindsay, the brutally honest and hilarious alcoholic Grandma Lynn, the love of Susie's life--Ray, and of course, Susie's meticulously sinister murderer, George Harvey. The author thoroughly showed us the many ways that grief can affect people. I like the fact that not only was this a story about Susie, it was many stories, narrated by Susie. I cared for every character because each one was developed as a complicated, growing, important individual who I eventually knew intimately.<br />Ultimately, it's a \\"lovely\\" portrait of how deeply we touch each other without even knowing it. And if you believe in life after death, it certainly is a comforting thought that souls are among us, watching us all the time, and that it's okay to acknowledge that.inders of her deceased daughter, and sought to escape through adultery, and eventually left her family altogether. Through all of her vastly different characters, Susie?s father, Jack Salmon, who never gave up solving the mystery behind her death, the emotionally strong younger sister Lindsay, the brutally honest and hilarious alcoholic Grandma Lynn, the love of Susie's life--Ray, and of course, Susie's meticulously sinister murderer, George Harvey. The author thoroughly showed us the many ways that grief can affect people. I like the fact that not only was this a story about Susie, it was many stories, narrated by Susie. I cared for every character because each one was developed as a complicated, growing, important individual who I eventually knew intimately.<br />Ultimately, it's a \\"lovely\\" portrait of how deeply we touch each other without even knowing it. And if you believe in life after death, it certainly is a comforting thought that souls are among us, watching us all the time, and that it's okay to acknowledge that.	2002-09-27
US	45054283	R1Y1RJC7PJSR7P	0553379690	832062520	One Hundred and One Ways	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Universal and Beautiful Novel	This debut novel is about a young woman, Kiki, haunted by the vision of her deceased lover, while she is poised to make a life-changing decision. She looks to her grandmother, a former geisha, to find answers to her questions about her life. In this, there are sub-stories; one about the disintegration of Kiki and her own mother's relationship, as well as Kiki's grandmother, Yukiko's life as a geisha.<br />I picked up this novel on the heels of finishing \\"Memoirs of a Geisha.\\" However, I didn't read it for almost two years. Now I'm glad I didn't read it at the time because I think I would have lumped this novel into the same genre as \\"Memoirs...\\", which would be a shameful inaccuracy. \\"One Hundred and One Ways\\" is nothing like \\"Memoirs of a Geisha,\\" it completely stands on its own.<br />There's a lot of interesting issues surrounding Kiki. One is that she identifies so completely with her grandmother, a woman she never met. Kiki is very sensitive to her heritage, and is often suspicious with any man who is attracted to her as having an \\"Asian-woman fetish.\\" The many visits of Phillip's ghost is shocking in their detail. The author describes him in such a way that it seems like he's very real, so it's hard to accept the fact that he's not at least frightening the heck out of Kiki, yet in the end you see why. His constant presence throughout the novel makes you wonder what his purpose is, and it turns out to be completely different from what you'd expect.<br />The author's descriptions of Japan startled me. It reminded me of a friend's very similar description; the shoddiness of the new buildings, the layout of the city. Also, I was surprised at how involved I became with Kiki's character. Her willingness to put up with her boyfriend Eric, who seemed so shallow and insensitive, and why he was a part of her life totally frustrated me. Again, however, all my questions were answered.<br />Mako Yoshikawa writes beautifully. The novel reads like a graceful, flowing, rhythmic song. Reading this is similar to a trek in the mountains, with many hills, valleys, pitfalls and obstacles. Yet it's packed with symbolism, forshadowing, and premonitions, making it suspenseful journey, always keeping you wondering what will happen to Kiki, right to the final destination. I couldn't tear myself away from this book. The author brought tears to my eyes in the end, yet she did it so neatly, without any melodrama.<br />There were so many wonderful themes in this novel. Not only was it about the power of sexual love, but also the power of love between two women, and how the strong bonds that friendship build deeply touch us. There's a theme of broken relationships between mother and daughter and their subsequent reparation. It's about the paths people choose to live their lives, their regrets for choosing them, haunting themselves forever with questions of ifs, whys and hows. Yet finally, the answers are revealed to them once they accept and let it all go. They see that there was no other course for their lives to take. What a universal theme! What a satisfying book to read!hmic song. Reading this is similar to a trek in the mountains, with many hills, valleys, pitfalls and obstacles. Yet it's packed with symbolism, forshadowing, and premonitions, making it suspenseful journey, always keeping you wondering what will happen to Kiki, right to the final destination. I couldn't tear myself away from this book. The author brought tears to my eyes in the end, yet she did it so neatly, without any melodrama.<br />There were so many wonderful themes in this novel. Not only was it about the power of sexual love, but also the power of love between two women, and how the strong bonds that friendship build deeply touch us. There's a theme of broken relationships between mother and daughter and their subsequent reparation. It's about the paths people choose to live their lives, their regrets for choosing them, haunting themselves forever with questions of ifs, whys and hows. Yet finally, the answers are revealed to them once they accept and let it all go. They see that there was no other course for their lives to take. What a universal theme! What a satisfying book to read!	2002-09-19
US	45054283	R16RAW7DT6WJG0	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Suspenseful indeed...but different!	The cover of this novel boasts a suspenseful love story, which it is. However, don't let it fool you, it wasn't the same kind of suspense one would expect...yet, I still couldn't put it down! The way Ha Jin writes is so so calm, simple, nothing crude or crass. It's a story about Lin Kong, a doctor who lives in the city, who's fallen for Manna Wu, a nurse who lives in the city...but they can't get together because Lin has a wife from an arranged marriage, Shuyu, who lives in the country.<br />This is a story spanning over 18 years, with Communist China as the setting. I liked how the description of the regime sort of paralleled Lin's story and the choices he made. On one hand, you see how the communist regime sneaks itself into the fabric of everyone's personal lives and decisions. All the while, Lin mentally commented on the idiosyncrasies of the past traditions. Yet, near the end, he started to appreciate some of the concepts that the old tradition held.<br />I was surprised at how the writer was able to manipulate my feelings for each of these characters (or maybe I'm just easily manipulated--lol!). For a while I was sympathetic to Lin's plight, but then I was annoyed at his selfishness and lack of passion. Again, I thought Manna was a sweet woman who deserved to be with Lin, but then eventually, she seemed cold...but she had a good reason to be so, after 18 years of waiting for a man she loved, enduring some painful incidents throughout. Finally, there's Shuyu, whom I wanted out of the picture from the beginning, but could see how special she really was.<br />I just think that Lin Kong was such an odd character. He went through life almost like a passive observer. He became frustrated when he found himself in these difficult situations, yet did little to get out of them. He looked at life like a series of events that just &quot;fell into his lap.&quot; Fortunately, it seemed that finally he started to realize that he was, in fact, the master of his own destiny. Yet it was a bit late in life when he discovered this. Still, I'm not sure he would really make the transition to emotional maturity by the end of the novel, but at least he started to appreciate the good things he had in his life.<br />It's a wonderful theme to which any of us can relate: Take stock in what we have. Find the beauty that surrounds us. People who want something they can't have may spend their lives reaching for it, only to have anger and bitterness in the end because they never appreciated what they already had. They wasted their lives wanting what others possessed, be it love, money, or freedom.Yet it was a bit late in life when he discovered this. Still, I'm not sure he would really make the transition to emotional maturity by the end of the novel, but at least he started to appreciate the good things he had in his life.<br />It's a wonderful theme to which any of us can relate: Take stock in what we have. Find the beauty that surrounds us. People who want something they can't have may spend their lives reaching for it, only to have anger and bitterness in the end because they never appreciated what they already had. They wasted their lives wanting what others possessed, be it love, money, or freedom.	2002-09-12
US	45054283	R3I3CQSE42NKDG	0451156625	836901831	Nothing Natural (Signet)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Interesting, but somewhat disappointing	I received this book from a friend and...actually, I'm glad, because this subject is somewhat intriguing and now I have a decent glimpse of it. \\"Nothing Natural\\" is about a 30-ish woman, Rachel, who gets involved in a sado-masochistic relationship. Oh yeah, it's also about how Rachel struggles to exist in a world without getting emotionally close to anyone!<br />In terms of style, Jenny Diski writes very clearly, simply and bluntly. Her sex scenes are so stark, they're quite a turn-on. In terms of the story however, I formed opinions about Rachel's character early on, and the author pretty much validated my opinions halfway through. The character of Pete, a social service case of Rachel's, presented a promising story in which I hoped would be the experience that would help Rachel grow and progress into a whole person, but that was not so. After that, she went into a huge depression, and that section really dragged for me. Diski could have written that in about half as many pages. In the end, she half-heartedly, but successfully, took a step towards doing away with a self-destructive fantasy, facing life in all its convoluted, complicated and messy splendor.<br />For me I guess the problem would be that I didn't really like Rachel...she annoyed me after a while. That's not to say that she wasn't a complicated person with a whole mess of \\"issues.\\" However, this was a really interesting look into the reality of a truly sado-masochistic relationship. It made me wonder, or rather, it answered the question of whether or someone would be able to truly separate sex from emotional attachment. Furthermore, would someone be able to separate a sexual fantasy from sexual reality? From the looks of it, it's not easy!	2002-09-10
US	45054283	R16GV5QE6ATZMT	0684841444	412193908	Because They Wanted to: Stories	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Cerebral Salad of Souls (sorry!)	I loved this book! It?s a collection of short stories about men and women of all ages (mostly in their 30s though). Gaitskill has a beautiful style of writing. Her descriptions are wonderfully unique and filled with imagery. All of the relationships she portrays are fascinating because all of her characters are damaged in one way or another.<br />Some of my favorite stories (almost all of them, really) were Tiny Smiling Daddy, about the father who recalls and regrets his reaction to learning of his daughter's &quot;coming out.&quot; Because They Wanted To, was about Elise, a 16 year-old runaway who takes care of a stranger's kids. Orchid, about old friends seeing each other after so  many years, thus stirring up memories of a close friendship bordering on love. The Blanket, about a relationship between an older woman and a younger man. Finally there's one of my favorites, Girl on a Plane, where a man looks back on his misdeeds after meeting a woman who mysteriously reminds him of a girl he once knew. Then there's The Dentist, where a girl named Jill endlessly chases this man whom the author gives no name (which clues you into his personality!). In the last four stories, the narration changes to the first person and takes on a much more lively pace. However, that does not take away the depth of the all of the preceding stories.<br />Gaitskill is flawless at exposing the complexities of the human psyche. Furthermore, she exposes the maddening efforts people make to connect with one another. Illustrating every character as a unique individual, Gaitskill gives each person his or her own set of baggage, idiosyncrasies, and methods of survival. Instead of simple love stories where boy meets girl--boy and girl fall in love--they live happily ever after, here's a a collection of relationships, each with their own harrowing progressions, ups and downs, and a million different paths of resolution, not all necessarily &quot;happy.&quot; As an amateur writer, I'm inspired by her work and each story teaches me something new.er work and each story teaches me something new.	2002-08-30
US	45054283	R3OPD52C83JT7B	1902881478	162682246	The Dance of Geometry	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The many facets of Vermeer	I thought D.O.G. was wonderful. I was surprised at how much Johannes Vermeer's life would interest me. Made up of three short stories, the first was written as a story told during the younger years of Vermeer's life. The second a journal entry of an acquaintance of Vermeer, and the third written by a Vermeer \\"copyist\\" in the present day. I didn't expect the novel to be constructed this way, but I enjoyed it nevertheless.<br />The writing was beautiful in the way everything was described in terms of \\"geometry\\"; where things were placed in relation to one another, how light played on objects and rooms. It was as if the life described was written as Vermeer himself would have seen it.<br />I think the author very successfully kept the book together with these three very different stories. In one sense, the Vermeer technique was a thread that evolved throughout the novel. For example, one could see how it developed in the first story when Vermeer discovered the books on perspective and his arguments with his teachers about the importance of light, etc. (I chuckled at Vermeer's slow start in his education...his confusion in math--so common for many artists!) Then in \\"Shifting Surface...\\" the camera obscura becomes a huge factor in the story. I was especially fascinated by the controversy and damage such an invention would have caused at that time. Then of course, in \\"Reconstruction,\\" the copyist describes in detail how the Vermeer painting is created.<br />The narration was intriguing in that it changed dramatically from one story to the next, but not enough to completely throw the reader off course. Whereas the first narration was a passive observation of events, the second was someone's journal, written in the first person. Third was narrated by a man in modern times, again in first person. I have my own ideas as to who the narrators might have been but the point I make is that I enjoy the fact that D.O.G. raises some of these questions and forces the reader to make his/her own interpretations.<br />Each story drew me in...I loved reading about Vermeer's young life, his close relationships with his father and sister. His desire for Catherina, and his sexual experience in Amsterdam (Who would've guessed that such an incident would happen in Amsterdam?!) \\"The Shifting Surface of Desire\\" was excellent. De Monconys? experience of walking through Van Ruijven's collection of Vermeer paintings was awesome. The descriptions alone made me want to re-visit the work myself. Of course, Borry's invention of the photographic negative was exciting and shocking in terms of the fear it caused in the Guild. Even \\"Reconstruction\\" drew me in. I was a little confused by the flashback-chronology...and needed to reread a bit to discern what Sophie's part was in the grand picture. One thing I liked in this story was how it would jump from John's narration, to Maritje's narration. At first I thought John was putting himself in her shoes, so that he could accurately copy the painting (\\"The Music Lesson\\"), but then I sort of forgot about John and it read like the \\"spirit\\" of Maritje, which lived on in the painting, throughout the years and the hands through which it passed. Very cool in the fact that it kept Monconys' story going from \\"Shifting Surface...\\" Also it was interesting how the actual reproduction of the painting was in relation to this growing love affair/mystery between John and Sophie. The \\"Reprise\\" at the end was a fitting way to end the novel about Vermeer, I won't go into detail here. Just read it.<br />One thing I have to add here is that I'm in awe of how much research and imagination it took to write something like this. It completely took me in and I felt as if the novel was written by a person who actually lived in Delft and knew Vermeer intimately. I guess that's one of the objectives of historical fiction, but I'm still amazed! Definitely a great read.s/her own interpretations. <br />Each story drew me in...I loved reading about Vermeer's young life, his close relationships with his father and sister. His desire for Catherina, and his sexual experience in Amsterdam (Who would've guessed that such an incident would happen in Amsterdam?!) \\"The Shifting Surface of Desire\\" was excellent. De Monconys? experience of walking through Van Ruijven's collection of Vermeer paintings was awesome. The descriptions alone made me want to re-visit the work myself. Of course, Borry's invention of the photographic negative was exciting and shocking in terms of the fear it caused in the Guild. Even \\"Reconstruction\\" drew me in. I was a little confused by the flashback-chronology...and needed to reread a bit to discern what Sophie's part was in the grand picture. One thing I liked in this story was how it would jump from John's narration, to Maritje's narration. At first I thought John was putting himself in her shoes, so that he could accurately copy the painting (\\"The Music Lesson\\"), but then I sort of forgot about John and it read like the \\"spirit\\" of Maritje, which lived on in the painting, throughout the years and the hands through which it passed. Very cool in the fact that it kept Monconys' story going from \\"Shifting Surface...\\" Also it was interesting how the actual reproduction of the painting was in relation to this growing love affair/mystery between John and Sophie. The \\"Reprise\\" at the end was a fitting way to end the novel about Vermeer, I won't go into detail here. Just read it.<br />One thing I have to add here is that I'm in awe of how much research and imagination it took to write something like this. It completely took me in and I felt as if the novel was written by a person who actually lived in Delft and knew Vermeer intimately. I guess that's one of the objectives of historical fiction, but I'm still amazed! Definitely a great read.	2002-08-10
US	45054283	R2LPU9F6GCCWMZ	080211699X	781803946	Personal Velocity	Books	3	7	12	N	N	It's okay...	Okay...seven short stories about seven different women. Some stories were related to each other, some weren't. I took the term \\"personal velocity\\" to mean the rate at which an individual evolves, or changes, or comes into her own. Maybe I'm way off here. Maybe I just didn't get it. Great--that?s a nice thought. Anyway, I was surprised by all the raving reviews. Maybe it's the style in which Rebecca Miller writes. It's very simple and raw, almost inspiring. You get a very clear sense of the characters she illustrates...the stories read like little movies in your mind. However, many of these stories just left me cold. They didn't end, they just stopped. That's always annoying to me. Plus, after I finished reading this book, I felt...nothing! How can that be?? It's as if no one, not even the writer, really cared about these women. I like simplistic writing but this made me feel like I was reading a technical manual or something! (well, it wasn't that bad!)<br />I enjoyed the story of Greta, the successful editor who's facing a hard decision about her marriage as her career takes a huge step up. I liked the story of Bryna because the conflict between her and her mother-in-law was so obvious but not a lot needed to be said about it. Plus her relationship with her husband was so sweet and simple compared to the relationships in the other stories. Nancy was an interesting kid. At first she struck me as a future serial killer, but then it was clear that she was totally neglected by selfish parents. Nancy was having some pretty interesting experiences as a result, but I don't really know what happened at the end of that story. I was confused by the parents' conversation. And I felt sad for Nancy. This is an example of where I clearly didn't \\"get it.\\"<br />Delia just [made me mad]. She seemed so reckless with herself, which ultimately led her to this awful marriage, and then she was so pleased with herself for continuing to be as reckless as she was before. Fine, she doesn't give a [hoot] about the men she's with, which gives her the power, which keeps her safe. What am I supposed to do with that? I was frustrated with the Julianne story because I wanted to know what would happen to her. She was like this ghost floating through her life. The end. On to the next story. Louisa was another interesting basket-case. So was Paula...but those girls didn't really evolve yet, they were \\"on their way\\" to do so when their stories ended.<br />So essentially, this book is okay. It goes pretty quickly. But like I said before, it didn?t shake my world or anything. The most frustrating thing about it was that each story piqued my interest, but many of them ended too soon. Maybe that's why people loved it so much.give a [hoot] about the men she's with, which gives her the power, which keeps her safe. What am I supposed to do with that? I was frustrated with the Julianne story because I wanted to know what would happen to her. She was like this ghost floating through her life. The end. On to the next story. Louisa was another interesting basket-case. So was Paula...but those girls didn't really evolve yet, they were \\"on their way\\" to do so when their stories ended.<br />So essentially, this book is okay. It goes pretty quickly. But like I said before, it didn?t shake my world or anything. The most frustrating thing about it was that each story piqued my interest, but many of them ended too soon. Maybe that's why people loved it so much.	2002-06-22
US	45054283	R2DQGFZ6F98Y7O	0452282950	609426348	The 25th Hour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It's worth the read...	Interesting. Funny! I like the way Benioff writes. Such a convincing portrait of the many worlds of NYC. It reads as if Benioff's experienced this story first hand or something. I couldn't put it down actually, because I wanted to see what was going to happen with these guys; Monty, Jakob, Slattery...not to mention Naturelle, Mary, Uncle Blue, Kostya. I?d call this a novella because it took me 25 hours to read it (or less). Very much like a short story, filled with a series of related vignettes. It's basically a glimpse of a man's last day of freedom. Also, a glimpse into the lives of his friends, with whom he spends those last twenty-four hours.<br />For a while I sort of sympathized with Monty; this young man who grew up in NYC, who lost his Mom when he was little, who faced an imminent 7-year prison sentence, who &quot;just wanted to be a fireman.&quot;<br />However, in reality, he was a convicted heroin dealer, pretty much cheated on his loyal girlfriend, and basically had a smooth-sailing kind of a life until he got caught. So really it's pointless to sympathize. Even his best friends, though they loved him, felt some resentment towards Monty for getting himself into this predicament.<br />To me, there were maybe three or four stories going on here: What was Monty going to do? What was Jakob Elinsky going to do? (His was a particularly juicy story actually, a teacher lusting after one of his students...), and...what would happen to Doyle the pitbull? And possibly, what made Frank Slattery such a jerk?<br />The ending was surprising. All along I conjured up my own ideas of what Monty would ultimately do, but it turned out to be nothing like what I had in mind. It's actually kind of funny, but also kind of sad. Of course I'm not going to give it away. You?ll have to read for yourself. I'd recommend reading it before the Spike Lee film comes out.	2002-06-15
US	45054283	R311DUI9MCH21O	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The ups and downs of marriage...	I liked this book because it was about a woman who contemplated divorce, chickened out, then had to deal with a really drastic change in her husband which rendered him just as annoying as he was before, but then somehow managed to make the marriage work out after all. I liked the fact that the way this book was written made me extremely sympathetic towards the wife in the beginning, but then made me sympathetic to her husband, and then back, and forth, and back and forth. Obviously it's a comment on all types of behaviors and &quot;political-correctness&quot; in its many forms and extremes. Always full of surprises, this book kept me on my toes, always wondering what would happen next. Furthermore, in light of the many novels about &quot;real people relationships&quot; steeped in overwhelming fantasy, it was refreshing to see this story end on a realistic, but positive note. It's worth the read.	2002-06-14
US	45054283	R82Q3WU0WKFZ3	0312275544	536026728	A Shortage of Engineers: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Funny as in "HAHAHAHA!"	It didn't take long for me to read this novel. I was surprised because the idea of reading a story about engineers didn't really strike me as \\"interesting.\\" However, when I found out that Robert Altman was doing his next film based on this novel (\\"Voltage\\", which at the moment is on hiatus), I decided to check it out. Boy am I glad I did! It's hilarious! I mean, I laughed my butt off on practically every page of the book! Robert Grossbach is VERY good with dialogue, sarcasm, dry humor, and so on. Very much embraces the way the engineer thinks (I know many guys like the ones described here). Actually, if one were to compare the humor to that of the film, \\"Office Space,\\" I'd say it's very close, if not, even more laughable.<br />I love the way this novel exposes the total absurdity caused by workplace bureaucracy, politics, etc. All of the characters are so fascinating and real. Similar to Catch-22 in the sense that none of the policies make any sense, none of workers really care to follow the management's rules, so much complacency and such a rude awakening for a young man entering the workforce three weeks after graduating from college. It's enough to embitter someone for a lifetime.<br />Some examples that set off \\"out-loud laughter\\" are Zack's Urinary Styles and Strategies, Shopper Jim's rules of the workplace, aside from all the other incredible idiosyncrasies that all the characters possess. I especially snicker at the way the author describes dressing style of one of the female characters, Lilah. Florescent-colored dresses? My God! For a story set in the late 80s, it's perfect! Still these facets are just a tip of the iceberg.<br />A few issues that made me wonder was 1) Is it true that most guys are as horny and so quick to fantasize and physically react to beautiful women as the main character in this book, Zack Zaremba? I had to consult my husband on this one and he said \\"Not really,\\" although I now wonder if HE was telling the truth...and 2) Other than the constant horniness, Zack seemed to be rather mature for a 22-23 year-old male. But hey, maybe I just didn't know any mature 22-year-old males in my lifetime!<br />The preceding issues aside, this novel is still very entertaining and disillusioning all at the same time, but never depressing. Very much like the character of Shopper Jim, it's written in a manner that's not meant to be taken too seriously, you could cry at the total absurdity of the engineer's world, or you could just laugh...and laugh...and laugh!constant horniness, Zack seemed to be rather mature for a 22-23 year-old male. But hey, maybe I just didn't know any mature 22-year-old males in my lifetime! <br />The preceding issues aside, this novel is still very entertaining and disillusioning all at the same time, but never depressing. Very much like the character of Shopper Jim, it's written in a manner that's not meant to be taken too seriously, you could cry at the total absurdity of the engineer's world, or you could just laugh...and laugh...and laugh!	2002-06-13
US	45054283	R1NDM47F697A0A	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Short and Sweet	I'm amazed by Steve Martin. What a talented fellow! Actor, comedian, screenwriter, playwright, novelist, banjo player! The man can do it all!<br />First of all...like in \\"L.A. Story,\\" one can sense how much Martin hates L.A., or what it symbolizes in the very least. You'll laugh out loud during his descriptions of the women in Beverly Hills, the wives of famous people, and characters such as the ruthless and competitive Lisa, and the loser Jeremy who goes through a life-altering transformation. It's so refreshing to hear someone scathingly comment on the culture of plastic surgery, and manipulation of one's affections, and the hell people put themselves through in order to prove that they are youthful and wanted. But moreover, this is a very humorous and intriguing story about the relationship between Mirabelle, who's 28, and Ray, who's 50. At first one might be turned off by the affair, but it quickly becomes a very complex and touching discovery for each, in terms of the difference between men and women, and what each looks for in a relationship. I enjoyed seeing how the relationship evolved into a deep and meaningful friendship where both parties learned something and grew from it.<br />What I thought was interesting is that the characters surrounding Mirabelle (who was the obvious protagonist) were so lively and animated. For example, you knew what Ray, Lisa and possibly Jeremy wanted, what their obstacles were, where they needed to change. These characters were almost...more interesting to read about! They all had some pretty clear personality flaws, while Mirabelle was clearly a sympathetic and passive character, possibly to the point of being boring. But luckily you do see her blossom and come into her own.<br />It took me only a day to read this novella, and I think the length was perfect. Maybe I was hormonal or maybe I'm just a softy, but again like so many other books, I teared up in the end, probably due to the simplistic sweetness of the story. Sometimes less indeed is more.mes less indeed is more.	2002-06-01
US	45054283	R17T68CTET2XB7	0385335660	238997941	Kissing in Manhattan	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun, quick read!	Normally short stories piss me off because I don't want them to end. That's how I felt with each passing story in this book. Each character and each little journey was so fascinating and intriguing...I was bummed when their stories came to a close. HOWEVER, \\"K-I-M\\" is different because all the stories come together near the end. Very clever! I have to say that the Patrick Rigg story scared me because it reminded me of American Psycho (by B.E. Ellis), but it really didn't turn out to be gruesome at all. (On a sidenote, I was especially fascinated by Patrick's source of gratification. A very interesting approach to dealing with women's general issues of self-esteem in the area of appearance. Very interesting! They always say that one of the hardest things to do is to look squarely at your own eyes in the mirror for as long as you can!) I like Schickler's style of writing, very quick and no-nonsense...sort of like New York City itself. However, the Father Merchant story was different from all the rest because the author introduced this mystic, psychic element to the picture, which was at first hard to swallow after reading all of these stories about people who are just living their lives, trying to get by, so very steeped in the present, or the \\"here and now.\\" That's okay though...it was necessary and it made sense. I really enjoyed this book. It was a nice collection of glimpses into other people's lives, and ultimately a good example of how small the world is. So many lives are deeply moved simply by people just bouncing off each other without even trying.	2002-06-01
US	45054283	R1ZRJGNB1334NP	0060953691	366053259	La Cucina: A Novel of Rapture	Books	4	1	3	N	N	JUICY!!	Okay, I loved this novel! Woohoo! If you liked \\"Like Water for Chocolate,\\" you'll love this one too. Same idea: Sex and food...but set in Italy. Well the differences are more than that but it's the same theme. This is a wonderful story of love, self-discovery, familial ties, secrets and passion for cooking and the \\"affairs of the heart.\\"<br />The love scenes are truly sexy...they totally light the fire within the reader...seriously! Also, I loved the fact that the height of Rosa's sexual exploration was when she was overweight and middle-aged. Such a refreshing look at a relationship where it's obvious that looks were not as important as the passion and chemistry that ignites between two people.<br />There were a few flaws that force me to give this novel 4 stars instead of 5. In an attempt to prevent spoiling the ending, what happened with L'Inglese after he disappeared? What was his occupation? What happened to him all that time? What was that [issue] that Luigi said about having him 'taken out?' None of these issues were ever resolved, yet they were seemed important as they surfaced time and time again throughout the novel. Also, I think the ending was somewhat abrupt. Yes I suppose it was predictable as well, but I loved it anyway and it made me cry. So I still highly recommend it.	2002-06-01
US	45054283	RUIZAZD57B8TL	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Work of Art	I LOVED this book! I finished it in three days and I?m a slow reader. I was surprised that a novel set during the 1660s in Holland could hold any interest for me, but I couldn?t put it down.<br />What I like most is how the story exemplifies the modus operandi of a true artist: His greatest passion is his art, which can be difficult for regular people to fully comprehend. For that artistic passion to be more important than anything else, can be heartbreaking for a young girl such as Griet. Maybe it?s because I?m an artist myself, went to art school, have been surrounded by artists for so many years, that I could appreciate this novel, because so much of it is true when applied to real life. However, I think anyone will fall in love with this book.<br />I also loved the way Chevalier described the way Vermeer saw the world, what set his vision apart from the people around him. The way he taught his vision to Griet was beautiful. It was wonderful to see how Griet slowly understood the complexities in the colors of our world?she seemed perceptive beyond her years, or just one of the few people in town who could understand, and Vermeer saw this in her from the beginning.<br />Of course the love triangle in the novel was terrific. All the drama within the Vermeer family, their patrons and friends, and the local butcher?s son, was completely irresistible! However, it wasn?t like a soap opera by any means. Every character was complicated, everyone had their assets and flaws, which made this story all the more emotional. I was just sucked in!<br />There were so many aspects to this story, so many interesting issues going on: Such as Cornelia, one of the Vermeer children who was determined to bring Griet to shame. The unwavering love that Pietre the son had for Griet, Maria Thins who masterminded the business, and of course, Griet?s own transformation from an innocent child to a young woman, with all the confusion, frustration, discoveries and heartbreaks that came with it. Simply written, but filled with forshadowing and symbolic acts, this book, to me, is a work of art to be remembered.Simply written, but filled with forshadowing and symbolic acts, this book, to me, is a work of art to be remembered.	2002-05-25
US	45054283	R3EELC77RDZA6Y	0140274367	608065035	A Woman of Independent Means	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Classic...Timeless..Wonderful.	I just finished this book, of which I could not put down for a moment. It is an excellent read! I cried several times throughout the book. I was amazed by this woman, Bess. She was the obvious life-force behind her marriage and family. She always asked questions and made comments about life that were ahead of its time...classic...timeless! She was such a progressive thinker for her time.<br />  The letters spanned from the beginning of the 20th century to the 1940s. Time and time again she surprised me with her observations and decisions: We should just do, instead of waiting for something to happen, since the future is unknown. She commented about philosophical concepts that many of us ponder today. Her thoughts on children-rearing were so refreshing too; that we shouldn?t lose ourselves in our children; that raising children doesn't necessarily mean one has to make it her sole occupation.<br />  Her perception of life was so positive, even in the face of so many unbelievable tragedies. She treated death like an enemy, which forced her to live her life to the fullest. A very interesting, positive, way to look at things, especially in an age where a lot of us have become complacent about death. Her question about why society expects us to spend our lifetime of experiences with one person, is one that I'm sure many of us ask ourselves today! She sees the complexities of people and of life in general, which makes her so understanding, and so tolerant. Even her subtle way of introducing social change is brilliant, leaving a lasting impression. It was inspiring to read those letters, and reminded me of how important writing is...so much more thought goes into words when one writes them down. The written word can often be so much more powerful than words which are spoken.<br />  It occurred to me that this book was written in 1978, which may explain why there's so much progressive thought here. However, history shows us that many women felt the way Bess felt. It was so thrilling for me to read these letters, imagining the setting of America in the 20s, 30s and 40s.<br />  Most importantly though, I believed in this character. I felt for her deeply and her letters really moved me. Her life was astonishing...a wonderful read. I would recommend this book to every mother, daughter, grandmother...and every father, son and grandfather for that matter!illing for me to read these letters, imagining the setting of America in the 20s, 30s and 40s.<BR>  Most importantly though, I believed in this character. I felt for her deeply and her letters really moved me. Her life was astonishing...a wonderful read. I would recommend this book to every mother, daughter, grandmother...and every father, son and grandfather for that matter!	2002-05-20
US	45054283	RLYZSV2S2RCKV	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eyebrows raise, mouths drop open, laughter follows...	I don't know why it took me thirty years to pick up this book and read it...but wow! I'm glad I did. Ignatius J. Reilly is arrogant, smelly and wickedly hilarious! His distaste in everything and everyone cracks me up. So many times during the read I was baffled yet thoroughly entertained by this character and all of his misadventures. I laughed out loud many times reading this book. It's too bad the author never lived to see it win a Pulitzer...but for some reason, I think that he may have scoffed at the idea anyway.	2002-05-02
US	45054283	R1NB1TM5UOUVFE	0571199984	969896904	The Glory of Living: A Play	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Worth the read, but a must-SEE if possible...	I've never reviewed a play based on the book alone before. But here it goes: I'm a fan of Rebecca Gilman's work anyway. I like her style...very straight and simple, the work moves quickly. I like the fact that she deals with modern issues (stalking, political correctness, child criminals), and in this case with Glory of Living, she's talking about some pretty disturbing stuff (all based on true events). However, I like the fact that she can introduce these controversial, even offensive subjects in such a way, that you can handle it. Like instead of slapping you in the face with it and turning you off completely (like in a recent play \\"Absolution\\", or Ellis' novel \\"American Psycho\\"), she shocks you but causes you to really think about the situation and the characters in that situation, how they got there, etc. I like the fact that her plays somehow force me to let go of judging the characters. I think GOL is definitely worth reading, and I do it so I can have a sense of what the story's about, but really plays were meant to be seen onstage. I saw it in NYC this past November at the MCC Theater and it really was fantastic. The cast brought a whole new dimension to the play...it's beautiful!	2002-01-25
US	45054283	R3DYGTDJVOEYI3	0375411453	479991747	The Good People of New York	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A fun read for moms and daughters!	I thought this book was great! The beginning was a little slow, but it picked up quickly and soon I couldn't put it down. Being a young mom myself with a very little girl, I bought this book expecting it to be mostly the trials and tribulations of Roz, the mother, and of course she was a huge part of the novel. However, as the story unfolded, it turned out to be about her daughter Miranda, going through the hills and valleys of growing up with her mom in NYC. I found her story to be very intriguing, very exciting, with lots of little surprises. Several times this book made me laugh out loud, and it also made me weep. I think that maybe the end of the story was a little abrupt, as if the writer was running out of space and had to finish the story or something. But still I give it four stars because I enjoyed the book so thoroughly.	2002-01-25
US	45054283	R205WGE66RZHG6	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	4	2	2	N	N	An important novel for young women to read	Speaking as a 30-something year-old mom and wife, I was surprised to read that thoughts going through the main character's mind were thoughts that I myself had, down to the very word. I think this book was really ahead of its time. The concept of a woman realizing her true potential, or reconsidering major decisions she'd made in her life is, I believe, something that happens to many women today. In many cases, only until a woman has accomplished all of her goals, or attained everything she ever wanted, will she then start to reassess her life and ask herself some difficult questions, like how did she get to where she is today, or did she make the right decisions in her life, or is this the life really what she wanted, or is this all there is for her? I've read some pretty harsh reviews of this book and I don't really know what the intentions of the author were, but I still think that this is a very important novel, especially for any woman who is struggling with balancing the responsibilities she has  towards her family, and redifining herself as an individual, or part of the rest of the world. Personally, it comforts me to know that women were facing these very same issues such a long time ago.<br />The book was a fast read, but in all its simplicity, the main character spoke to me deeply. I gave it only four stars however, because the resolution of the story was pretty depressing. Although, in Victorian times, divorce wasn't an option and people weren't as forgiving as they are today, so I can see how the protagonist saw no other way.	2002-01-12
US	45054283	R8IG9LHYRS52I	0684867532	736882669	Run Catch Kiss: A Gratifying Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good stuff!	I really loved this book, not only because it was totally engaging reading about the trials and tribulations of being a single twenty-something in NYC, but also the sex scenes were great! I got hot just reading the book! Also Amy Sohn's sense of humor just kills me, I laughed out loud so many times throughout the story. I want more!	2001-04-03
US	45054283	R2YNCJJUXV72Q1	0743412028	925429454	Pay It Forward	Books	5	3	4	N	N	INSPIRING	This book won't take you long to read because it's WONDERFUL! I strongly reccommend reading it BEFORE seeing the movie because key characters have changed...Pay It Forward is inspiring, funny, tearful...I couldn't put it down. It's not sappy either. The story of giving to others unconditionally is set in the harsh reality of what we call our world!	2001-03-14
