US	45189732	R2NBASRZ009VA1	1596060247	168089124	Inside Job	Books	4	52	57	N	Y	Nothing Connie Willis hasn't already mined before	This actually merits closer to 3 1/2 stars in my opinion, not because it isn't good -- it is -- but because this is territory Connie Willis has already mined before and done better, and because the work is really too slight to merit its own volume. <br /> <br />As anyone who is familiar with Willis' work knows, Willis is a fan of movies (particularly screwball romantic comedies), literature, history and spiritualists, and she revisits all of that here to amusing effect.  As usual, her writing is in the first person, with lots of witty and erudite diversions from the story as her narrator, a debunker of hack telepaths, faith healers and similar hucksters, tries to prove that a popular channeler of an ancient spirit from Atlantis is a fraud, while avoiding his feelings for his sidekick, a gorgeous actress turned fellow debunker, and still managing to find time to get in lots of clever literary references, particularly the work of H.L. Mencken.  In the process, Willis manages to poke fun at pop culture and celebrity while at the same time delighting in them. <br /> <br />If you've never read Connie Willis before, this is an entertaining introduction, but she's done  the literary reference/fake spiritualist/can't-quite-get-it-together romance thing better in \\"To Say Nothing of the Dog,\\" and her previous short stories, particularly \\"Spice Pogrom,\\" have been a better working of the screwball comedy angle.  Her award winning novella \\"The Last Winnebago\\" shows how great and moving she can be when she is in form, and while I liked this one, I can't help feeling as though I'd read it before.  But hey, second-rate Connie Willish is still better than just about anybody else, so I can't not recommend it, I just can't help wishing this was as good and original as her best work.  If you're already a fan, you'll probably enjoy this quick and easy read.  If not, start with her longer work or one of her collections, and wait until this is repackaged in a longer volume with other work.	2005-06-19
US	45189732	R1WPX10KY12XYU	1584792965	770132852	Alton Brown's Gear for Your Kitchen	Books	5	209	211	N	Y	Informative, Entertaining and Ever So Useful	Don't buy this book if you're looking for recommendations on which brands of applicances to buy -- even Alton Brown would admit that you're better off checking out \\"Cook's Illustrated\\" or \\"Consumer Reports\\" for that.  What this book is brilliant for is the explanations of what the most commonly used kitchen tools do and don't (and can and can't) do and how they work, along with the practical tips for picking the items that suit your needs best.  Alton Brown does, from time to time, make specific recommendations, but he tells you why he likes those items so that you can accept or  reject them on the merits.  Also it should be noted that some of his recommendations run contrary to what he recommends for baking in \\"I'm Just Here for More Food,\\" so if you bake a lot, you might want to read that book as well before shopping for items such as scales and mixers that are used in both cooking and baking.  \\"Gear For Your Kitchen\\" covers items used in both, but emphasizes cooking. <br /> <br />Alton covers each type of equipment thoroughly, explaining, for instance, what types of pans are good for different types of cooking applications, and what are the various properties of the different materials out of which they are made.  So not only do you end up understanding the diffference between a sauce pan and a saucier, you can figure out whether clad metal or copper is your best bet.  This same type of treatment is given for knives, small appliances, etc. <br /> <br />But my favorite part of the book has to do with sanitation and storage.  The explanations of why certain sanitary measures need to be taken are coupled with easy ways to do it.  I couldn't get a frozen enchilada smell out of my microwave oven until I mixed water and bleach in the proportions Alton recommends in a plastic spray bottle.  So simple and obvious and yet... <br /> <br />While reading this (cover to cover in practically one sitting -- it's that readable) I found myself enjoying Alton's humorous descriptions, numerous photos and drawings.  But I've found myself going back to the book as a handy reference for ingenious ways to use items I already have and ideas for shopping more intelligently. <br /> <br />Since buying this book I've cleared out and reorganized my kitchen and even though I bought a lot more stuff after reading this book, I have more space and am able to use it more efficiently. <br /> <br />Thanks Alton!	2005-01-12
US	45189732	R1SLYKTW5N0S0I	1568493703	673214233	The Three Edwards	Books	5	41	41	N	Y	Like a Great Novel You Can't Put Down	All history books should be written as well as Thomas Costain's \\"The Three Edwards.\\"  A comprehensive guide to the lives and labors of  the great warrior kings Edward I and Edward III and the screw-up, Edward II, who ruled in between them, this book unfolds more like an easy-to-read and hard-to-put-down novel.  Divided into short, easily manageable and well-organized chapters, it covers everything from the marriages of the kings and their children, the political highs and lows of their reigns, the manner of their deaths and the major battles of their wars.  Many books about this era are hard to follow if you don't already have a good working knowledge of the time period.  Costain avoids this problem by telling you who the people are, what they looked and acted liked, and why they are important to the story, helping you keep track of them by reminding you when he's spoken of them before, and generally describing the people so well that they don't just become a series of names that you can't keep track of.  Although he obviously admires Edward I, has disdain for Edward II, and seems to be neutral toward Edward III, to whom about half the book is devoted, he is careful to point out both the good and bad in each of their characters and to place their actions in the context of their times.  Plenty of space is given to the kings' ministers, merchants, wives and families, and to those of the Scottish and French rulers with whom the Edwards were at constant war, including Robert the Bruce, William Wallace, John Balliol, Philip the Fair, Jean the Good, and Charles the Bald. <br /> <br />One of the things I love about this book is that Costain shares so many of the great rumors and stories that passed down over the ages (such as Edward I promising the Welsh that he will give them a prince that speaks no English or French and then appointing his newborn son to the post), simply because they are great stories, while taking pains to point out why they can't be true.  You can almost feel Costain winking at you as he relates the tales.  Another great aspect of the book is that he devotes substantial time to the women of the period, who are generally ignored in most books on the middle ages.  Edward II's wife, Isabella of France, is examined in detail, as is Eleanor of Castille, the first and beloved wife of Edward I whose death moved him to erect eleven costly stone crosses to her memory. <br /> <br />This book presents a very comprehensive overview of the lives and works of the three kings and is a great starting place for those who know very little about their lives, or a great review for those who've read much about them.  You won't get every tiny bit of detail about Edward III's famous battles of Sluys, Crecy and Poitiers here that is found in, for instance, Jonathon Sumption's books on the Hundred Years War, but they are all well-summarized, and Costain includes many important details such as numbers of foot and mounted soldiers on each side, terrain, battle tactics and formations, and number of casualties as well as political motivations.  Given the length of the book, there is a surprising wealth of detail packed into every page, including such wonderful tidbits as the origin of the word \\"blanket,\\" which came from the name of Thomas Blanket, an early English manufacturer of the item. <br /> <br />In the last few months I have read over two dozen books on the middle ages, and this had been by far the most informative and enjoyable, the one book that really makes the events of the period come alive and the people seem to be actual people of flesh and blood, rather than just an amalgam of their deeds and accomplishments.  I can't recommend this book highly enough.	2004-09-19
US	45189732	R1GNHH1EM341SL	1862320535	375646871	Robert the Bruce's Rivals: The Comyns, 1212-1314	Books	2	8	10	N	Y	Interesting Only if You are of Comyn Descent	I bought this book to understand the history leading up to Robert the Bruce's murder of his rival, John Comyn, in Greyfriars' Church in Dumfries, Scotland in February 1306.  No one knows why Robert Bruce called Comyn to a meeting or what set off the argument that ended when Bruce stabbed Comyn with a dagger.  All they know, is that less than six weeks later, Bruce managed to get himself declared king and set about destroying the Comyns, who where the most powerful family in Scotland during the thirteenth century and in the fourteen century before Bruce squashed them.  I was hoping this book would tell me about the personalities, what led to the rivalry, and why Bruce ultimately prevailed against a much stronger opponent. <br /> <br />Well -- it's kind of in there, although you have to pick it out of long list of names, dates and places -- which Comyn family members and allys held what offices when.  We're talking chapers of this stuff.  Young is very interested in presenting not a balanced or neutral point of view, but the Comyn point of view.  He considers this a balance to fifteenth & sixteen century propoganda that favored the Bruces.  And while the counterpoint is nice, I would have preferred less information about the Comyn \\"party,\\" and really would have preferred that after a while he stop referring to a Comyn \\"party\\" or at least take the word out of parentheses.  I managed to finish the book, but it was a slog, and honestly, I was able to find just about as much as I needed on the internet.  The Comyns deserve a book about them, but one done by a writer, not just a researcher. <br /> <br />So, in short... great book if you are a Comyn (or Cummin or Cummings, or the other variations) so you can learn a bit about your family, it's allies, enemies and the battles that shaped your fate, but for everyone else, it's worthwhile just because there aren't any other readily available books on the subject.  But then there's something to be said for that.	2004-09-12
US	45189732	R31UHTRW6UQJPS	0061315508	862110679	Black Death	Books	3	14	15	N	Y	Okay book on the Black Death with Technical Emphasis	I bought this book after reading several others on the period because a friend with a background in medieval history said this is  widely considered \\"the book\\" on the black death.  While it's definitely better than some of the other ones out there, it's by no means the best.<br /><br />The book starts out strongly, with descriptions of what the plague is and some general observations on the state of life in Europe during the early 14th century.  Ziegler does an excellent job of describing the physical symptoms and characteristics of the plague and the sources for what we do and don't know about the pandemic that would later come to be known as the black death and which struck Europe from 1348-1350 with diastrous results.  He describes the effects of the plague in Italy, France and Germany, before moving on to England, the country from which we have the most surviving contemporary accounts and archeological evidence.  Ziegler does a good job of describing the leading theories of the day, medical practices, hygiene, and the social effects of the black death, including the persecution of the jews and the religious movement of the flagellents.<br /><br />When the book turns to England, however, it begins to fall apart.  I should start out by saying that I am impressed with the amount of work Ziegler has done to try to analyze the actual number of deaths during the pandemic.  As Ziegler points out, contemporary accounts wildly overstated or overestimated numbers (a common problem with medieval accounts generally), in some cases, stating numbers of deaths that exceeded the total population of the city about which the contemporary chronicler was writing.  He presents evidence of known numbers that might be useful in calculating the number of dead, e.g., number of clerical benefices filled during the period, deaths recorded in the manorial rolls, etc., and various arguments that have been made for extrapolating numbers of deaths in the population at large from what is known.  As he traces the plague's path through England, however, he repeats this analysis for every major city and some minor ones as well.  Unless you are specifically interested in how many people died in York versus how many died in Bath, etc., the repitition becomes tiresome, and even if you are looking for the effect of plague on a particular region, not all are covered.<br /><br />I have to agree with the other reviewers that the fictional chapter on two imaginary villages is a low point in the book.  Ziegler, himself, must have realized how dry his account was getting and tried to impart the horror of the plague on the people who lived through it by creating these fictional places and giving us a story about what the inhabitants might have gone through.  The problem is that Ziegler just doesn't write fiction very well.  In any event, he didn't need to write it as fiction, he could have written supposition about the people who really lived through it, and it would have carried the same impact.  He finishes up with a summary of the remainder of the 14th century and how the plague affected the economy and social structure of Europe, including its contribution to the peasant's revolt of 1381 in England, and whether the plague led to the downfall of the feudal system.<br /><br />A much more moving and well-written account of the black death can be found in a chapter of Barbara Tuchman's book \\"The Calamitous Fourteenth Century,\\" which contains bascially the same information as this book, including a significant number of the same first-hand quotations.  You really feel the human impact of the plague after reading Tuchman.  With Ziedler, however, you get a great deal of information about the black death, including a detailed analysis of the plague's origin and routes into the various countries.  Just be prepared for a read that gets increasingly dryer and harder to stay with.  You will, however, walk away with a lot of knowledge about the black death, so this book definitely fulfills its purpose, even it doesn't do it as elegantly or movingly as one might like.	2004-09-12
US	45189732	R2XUUW6C9LE5PI	0198611862	341552322	The Oxford English Dictionary (20 Volume Set) (Vols 1-20)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Treasure of treasures for anyone who loves words	Yes you can get compact and computer versions of the Oxford English Dictionary and they will certainly take up less space in your house or apartment.  This 20 volume set takes up almost four feet of shelf space and will make all but the sturdiest book cases sag.  And yet, it's the sheer weight and size of the set that makes it so appealing.  There is also a magic to books and the ability to pick up a volume at random and find a word you never knew or learn the origin of a familiar word is simply wonderful.  Everything known about the meaning and origins of words used in the English language -- their linguistic derivation, the earliest known usage in  English, the evolution of the word's meaning, interesting examples of their use -- all of that is here.  I'm writing a novel set in the middle ages and this set has proved invaluable for helping me weed out anachronistic words while keeping words that I thought were modern but which turn out to have been used by the Venerable Bede all the way back in the eighth century!  The book even tells you which words are primarily American, English, Scottish or Australian in their uses. <br /> <br />The primary weakness of the Oxford English Dictionary is that it is missing some modern usages of words that are not primarily slang.  For instance, the dictionary lists many meanings for the word \\"crash,\\" but nowhere suggests that the word can be used to mean a sudden loss of energy or coming down from a drug high.  Still, this is the most comprehensive dictionary of the English language and you'll never have trouble finding words no one knows when you're playing word games with your friends.  Medical and technical words, zoological words, naughty words -- they're all here.  Where else could you learn that \\"retortive\\" once meant \\"in the nature of squeezing\\" but now means \\"turned backwards\\"?  Even if you don't need to know the definition of lots of obscure words and compounds, If you love words, this book is worth every penny and everyinch of shelf space. You'll never want to use another dictionary again.	2004-08-26
US	45189732	RGZUWFIRR0GJI	0415027837	485443431	England in the Later Middle Ages	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Scholarly, comprehensive & readable	This is the textbook you wish you'd had when you studied history in school.  Maurice Keen presents a thouroughly researched and well thought out overview of the primary social and political events of England from the reign of Edward I to that of Richard III.  He starts with the death of Alexander III of Scotland and the political crisis that ensued, leading England into the wars of Scottish independence.  He analyzes the wars from an economic as well as a political and social perspective, and presents convincing arguments for why Edward II was an unsuccessful king and Edward III  more effective.  He examines the role of the church during the later middle ages and sets the stage for England's eventual reformation of the church in the Tudor era.  The Hundred Years War is examined not in the details of its battles, but in its effect on English politics and society and how its cost changed the relationship between the king and English nobility.  In every chapter Keen takes the reader through how the acts of the various rulers during this time period had a profound and lasting effect on all segments of English society, from the nobility to the clergy to the merchants to the peasants. <br /> <br />Although some of the economic arrangements are difficult to follow in places, at least for someone without a background in economics, Keen's prose is highly readable, grammatically correct and eloquent, and the chapters are divided into manageable and logical chunks.  Keen's footnotes are largely references to his considerable source material and can be safely ignored except by those interested in the specific backup for a point of reference.  Keen doesn't seem to have a political agenda, which is a refreshing change from most books on the period. <br /> <br />I suspect this book might be a little bit difficult for someone without at least a basic knowledge of the time period, but much less so than many of the scholarly and even some of the less scholarly works covering this period.  This is, in short, a book that is highly readable from cover to cover, and a great straightforward examination of the political, social and economic changes that occurred in England between the end of the  thirteenth century and the beginning of the Renaissance.	2004-08-25
US	45189732	R9YM5AL736N1H	1862320675	440237456	A Power in the Land: The Percys	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Overview of the most famous family of England's north	In the middle ages, the people of northern England \\"knew no prince but a Percy.\\"  The Percy family ruled the English/Scottish borders in the middle ages from their castles at Alnwick, Warkworth, and Prudhoe, among others, serving as march wardens and representatives of the king.  They led the English through many battles in the Scottish wars of independence, including the battles of Neville's Cross, Otterburn and Humbleton Hill.  Henry Percy, the first Earl of Northumberland, and his famous son, Harry Hotspur, were immortalized by Shakespeare in his play, \\"Richard II.\\"  They were allies of Richard II who turned on him and helped set Henry IV on the throne, only to turn against him, too, with disastrous results. <br /> <br />This book is a survey of the history of the ambitious family of kingmakers that ruled the north and its later descendants who brought stability and honor to the family name.  Complete with lots of portraits of the family from the Renaissance on, the book is not terribly in-depth, but is an easy and enjoyable read about one notable family's journey through time.	2004-08-25
US	45189732	R2P6JJTAA8ZBA5	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A Da Vinci Code for literature	Pearl's tale of a serial killer in 19th century Boston doesn't quite pay off on its initial promise. The book is rich in period detail and Pearl has obviously done his research, both into the Boston of the era and into the real life members of The Dante Club -- the poets Longfellow and Lowell, and doctor Oliver Wendall Holmes. But while the mystery is initially compelling, it is ultimately done in by weak writing, ironic considering that the book is about Dante's &quot;Inferno,&quot; one of the most well-written works of fiction ever. <br />  <br /> Pearl's book is reminiscent of &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; with real-life figures involved in a fictional mystery, and an historical work of art that contains clues to solving a murder. Potential readers should be warned that this book also has a rather substantial &quot;gross-out&quot; factor, with descriptions of horrendous deaths and torment, in keeping with Dante's version of hell as set forth in the &quot;Inferno.&quot; Unfortunately, the more grusome details are what keeps the book interesting, and Pearl can't sustain the interest through the less sensationalistic sections. Nevertheless, although the writing becomes tiresome after a while, there is still much to be enjoyed in the obvious love Pearl has for Dante's work, and if nothing else, this book makes you want to read the Divine Comedy. But it won't have you frantically turning pages to find out the identity of the killer as it's just not that compelling a mystery. Ultimately, the characters aren't that well drawn, and the book has to rest on the work of Dante and on Boston of the 19th century. Fortunately for Pearl, that's a pretty decent foundation, but other than the portions on Dante, this book is quickly forgotten once finished.	2004-07-26
US	45189732	R2AB2T1EQLZGNQ	1852852011	513527919	Everyday Life in Medieval England	Books	2	14	19	N	Y	Academic and dry	Dyer's book consists of a series of essays on topics ranging from why villages declined in England in the middle ages to changes in diet to gardens, peasant buildings and the peasant's revolt of 1381.  Yet unlike the tremendous breadth and depth of  Paul B. Newman's far more engagingly written &quot;Daily Life in the Middle Ages,&quot; Dyer's book seems to be as much about justification for why Dyer's view of life in the middle ages is accurate as about actual medieval life.  This book is written more for the academic who cares deeply about sources for what is known than what is known itself, and the dry style and format (intro, argument, conclusion, and lots of footnotes, charts and tables) won't win many fans outside academia.	2004-06-22
US	45189732	R3J0216SEAF2TX	0786408979	627695951	Daily Life in the Middle Ages	Books	5	57	58	N	Y	Simply superb!	Newman's book is divided into seven sections -- Eating and Cooking, Building and Housing, Clothing and Dressing, Cleaning, Relaxing and Playing, Fighting, and Healing.  Each chapter is further broken down into convenient and well-organized sub-sections that combine to paint a thoroughly detailed portrait of life at all levels of society throughout Europe.  Newman points out how each of his seven areas differed from country to country and in different centuries.  The writing style is simple, yet vivid and entirely engaging, bringing the middle ages to life in an easy-to-understand yet detailed way.  For example, in the chapter on building and housing Newman discusses what materials were used (and where and why), how they were worked, and what tools were used for each; types of buildings and construction techniques; use of lighting, furniture, decorative elements, etc.  The section on food includes what food and drinks people consumed, how food was grown, gathered, stored and served, and differences in class and geographical areas.  Almost two pages are devoted to grains alone.   Newman explains each element clearly, using photos to illustrate many of the concepts.  He dispels common myths about the period and writes convincingly that life was much more advanced and varied than is commonly believed. This is not an academic book (no footnotes or specific source material, although there is a rich bibliography for each chapter generally), but rather a book for the casual researcher, writer or lay person who really wants to understand the middle ages.  It is extremely well-written (if poorly proofed), and the only real criticism I can make of the book is the quality of the binding, which makes it hard to read the left-hand pages in the early chapters.<br />I have been heavily researching the middle ages for a book I am writing and have read numerous books on the subject.  This one is by far the most informative and enjoyable.	2004-06-22
US	45189732	R2P8VM2KX4SNAH	0060005726	767737564	Play Poker Like the Pros	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Don't shoot the messenger!	Yes, Phil Helmuth, Jr. is a ... er, unlikeable guy, and his writing style won't win any awards.  On the other hand, this is simply the most understandable book out there for the fundamentals of playing the most popular poker games in the world today, limit, pot-limit and no-limit Hold 'Em, Omaha, Omaha Eight or Better, Seven Card Stud and Razz.  Helmuth presents beginner, intermediate and advanced strategies for each, including which starting hands are playable, when to play aggressively versus when to toss it in, and how to play position.  There are, in my opinion, books that are better for improving a particular game (T.J. Cloutier's and Tom McEvoy's book on tournament pot-limit Hold 'Em, for instance, gets in-depth on playing this particular game), and books that are better for general poker theory (Sklansky's books, for example), but this is just a great starting place and one of the few books that gives solid &quot;how to&quot; advice.  Get over your opinion of the guy -- he's a great player and has written a really useful book.	2004-05-04
US	45189732	R2RLVLK51PDZ3R	0385336608	817652979	The Gates of Rome (Emperor, Book 1)	Books	2	27	36	N	N	Engaging story/Atrocious Writing	I really wanted to like this book.  After all, there are few periods of time more interesting than Rome during the late Republic/early Empire, and few historical figures more captivating than Julius Caesar.  Iggulden does a good job of sketching in characters, both real and fictional, from Caesar's childhood and writes gripping action scenes.  Unfortunately, the action is at the expense of historical accuracy, which might slow the frenetic pace of the story telling, and the English is abominable, especially for an author who taught English for seven years.  I found it extremely distracting to read the simple past tense used as a past particple (\\"he had strode\\"), the use of apostrophe \\"s\\" to indicate a plural possessive (\\"Marcus's horse\\"), the use of plural verbs with single subjects (\\"the crowd were oblivious\\") and the use of plural pronouns to refer to single subjects (\\"each century became still, their torches held in unwavering hands\\").  This may seem trivial, but it's repeated over and over, and when added to the stiff, clunky dialogue, it makes for an awkward read.<br />On the plus side, it's fun to imagine what Caesar might have been like as a child and Iggulden is good at putting the reader in the middle of battles and fights, particularly when there isn't much dialogue to get in the way of the action.  For those interested in this time period, however, I would recommend the far superior books by Colleen McCullough, especially \\"The First Man in Rome,\\" \\"The Grass Crown,\\" and \\"Caesar: A Novel,\\" which deal with the same main historical characters as appear in this book, Gaius Marius, Sulla, and Julius Caesar, respectively, but are much better researched and written.  This one is just mildly entertaining fluff.	2004-05-04
US	45189732	R2HVKFIEXODON6	1580421237	45632430	Championship Tournament Poker (Championship Series)	Books	1	23	24	N	N	The 7-2 Offsuit of Poker Books	I don't know who this book is supposed to be for.  Certainly not someone who wants to learn any of the featured games.  It's assumed you already know the games well.  Certainly not anyone already playing much tournament poker.  Perhaps the delusional player who is just starting to play in tournaments and wants to play in every available event at once.  The book is just silly.  There are a grand total of 20 pages on no-limit hold 'em for example, and most of those are repetative.  In other words, Tom easily could have put 10 pages that say the same thing into the fine book he co-wrote with T.J. Cloutier.  The &quot;advice&quot; mostly consists of Tom rephrasing the very problem you probably wanted answered. In the brief section on strategic concepts, for instance, Tom repeats in several different sections the need to stay calm and guard against making errors based on personal dislike of an opponent.  He says things like take a deep breath after a bad beat (well, duh!).  What he doesn't say, are things like how to adjust your play if you've got a very aggressive player to your immediate left (which is useful to know).  He says things like &quot;The champions know when to push a marginal hand and when to back away from it,&quot; but makes no attempt to try to quantify how or when they know this.  So it isn't very helpful.  The chapter on playing poker as a business is probably useful, except it's only useful if you're good in the first place and if you are you aren't reading this book, you're saving your $30 and playin poker with it.  There are much better books out there and unless you are going to run right out and enter tournaments in every event, pick up a book that deals with the game in which you want to excel and stick to that.  The stuff in here you can find in articles on-line, or figure out playing poker on-line.	2004-03-29
US	45189732	R1XC4RD2KP8VE7	0142800341	7966085	The Lady and the Unicorn	Books	3	73	79	N	N	Interesting history that often reads like bad romance	The plot of this book is well-described above so I won't repeat it here.  The high points of this novel are the rich period detail -- the differences between how members of various social classes lived, the role of women in France and Belgium during the Renaissance, the interaction between art and politics, and, most of all, the creation of art, especially tapestries and how they differ from painting.  The characters are particularly well-developed and it is very easy to care for them.  I especially liked the blind daughter of the weaver and how Chevalier got into how she perceived the world and how the world of her day perceived her and her \\"flaw.\\"  It is extremely easy to empathize with the Lady Genvieve, stuck in a loveless marriage with nothing but her religion to cling to, her daughter Claude and her importance to her father solely as a means to his social-climbing, and the family of weavers whose work on the series of tapestries of the book's title will either make them or break them, and somehow ends up doing both.<br />I bought this book on audio, and there are two shortcomings that keep me from giving it a higher rating, one inherent in the book itself, the other having to do with the audio reading.  The first problem I have with the book is that it often reads like a bad romance novel, especially when dealing with the sexual awakening of Claude.  Yes, she is a 14 year-old girl and we are hearing or reading, as the case may be, her point of view, but everytime I heard these passages I kept imagining a paperback with Fabio on the cover.  I almost got into an accident driving and listening to this book as I was giggling pretty hard in places.  The book is also quite repetitive and felt rather short, more like a padded novella.<br />The issue I had with the audio version had to do with Robert Blumenfeld's reading of some of the male roles.  The protagonist of the book, Nicolas des Innocents is supposed to be arrogant and conceited, especially in his attitude toward women and non-Parisians.  But Blumenfeld reads Nicolas' passages in such an oozingly snobby and condescending voice, that is hard to imagine him seducing any woman, let alone the many of this book.  The general snobby quality of his voice also comes through with some of the other characters and doesn't always suit them so well, although he does better with the secondary characters.  It is especially noticable because Terry Donnelly, who reads the female voices, does such a marvelous job.  She sounds like a girl on the brink of womanhood when reading Claude's thoughts, she sounds like a weary middle-aged noblewoman when reading the passages narrated by Claude's mother, Genivieve, and she sounds like a wise working-class woman when reading as the weaver's wife.  It's such a wonderful performance that Blumenfeld's just doesn't hold up to it, especially since the sound quality on his parts isn't as good.<br />In short, this a great book for someone interested in Renaissance art and life and is basically good.  If you are interested in women in the middle ages and the Renaissance in Europe and want to listen on audio, I'd recommend instead Barnes and Noble's series of audio tapes of books by Alison Weir, including her book on Eleanor of Acquitaine and the Six Wives of Henry the Eighth.  They are extremely well-written and wonderfully narrated.  Had I not heard these series, I might have enjoyed \\"The Lady and the Unicorn\\" audio book more, but having heard great books about the era, I can only rate this one as merely good.	2004-03-12
US	45189732	R3RKTHT61ZLKJY	0743253965	557918965	Williams-Sonoma Collection: Muffins	Books	5	66	67	N	N	Easy to Follow Recipes, Great Tasting Muffins	The great thing about the Williams Sonoma series are the detailed tips and instructions at the back.  In the Muffins book, this includes adjusting cooking times to make jumbo or miniature muffins instead of standard size, tips on getting the muffins out of different types of pans, and substitutions for common ingredients.  Each recipe has a gorgeous photo, easy-to-follow instructions, and short tips on the key ingredients (such as the difference between sweet and sour cherries and tips on buying them fresh, frozen or canned).  The book includes not only sweet and savory muffins of many different varieties, but coffee cakes and similar items as well.  I brought the first two recipes I tried, raspberry muffins and chocolate chip muffins, to work, and they disappeared faster and got more raves than anything else I've brought in, and they were far easier to make than anything else.  I'll never eat store-bought again.	2004-01-28
US	45189732	RK8U761I9GOTI	0061053562	341413187	The Player of Games	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A Near Perfect Book	I say \\"near perfect\\" because as those who've read a lot of Ian Banks know, Banks is somewhat obsessed with cruelty and torture and this book has its fair share.  At least here, however, it forms a logical and integral part of the book unlike Banks' Consider Phlebas, where it's so gratuitous and specific that it's really disturbing, and it doesn't form a huge part of the book like it does in The Wasp Factory, which I couldn't finish because of it.<br />The above aside, the story is compelling, the writing superb, and the author's premise intelligent without being condescending or dense.  Banks has created a version of Utopia, called the Culture, and thought it through quite well.  Ownership and status have been eliminated, there's plenty of space, there's equality (even sentient machines share the same status as humans), people can internally create whatever drugs/state of mind they need/want and even select their gender, and people are happy and engaged.  So when Jernau Gergeh, a professional game player, is recruited to play the game of Azad in the far-distant empire of Azad, he is reluctant to leave his home for the five years the game will take.  But Gurgeh does leave, and Azad turns out to be a civilization much more like our own than that of the Culture.  Azad is hierarchical, crowded and violent, and status is everything.<br />One of the interesting things that Banks has done is to make us recognize ourselves in the empire of Azad, while still finding ways to make the Azadians different than the alien races one so often finds in mediocre science fiction writing.  For one thing, the Azadians have three genders.  Banks also focuses on the difference between the languages of the Culture and the empire, and how language may shape thought.  Banks makes us understand why Gurgeh becomes attracted to the empire even with all its flaws, inequalities and cruelty, and to the game of Azad, a brilliantly created giant of a game which is central to the civilization of Azadand all its institutions, and which represents the entire philosophy of the empire.<br />You might not think that a book about a game and game-playing would be consistently compelling, but in Bank's capable hands it is.  A study of competition, cultural differences, politics and human nature, it stays captivating throughout, managing to combine a good story and excellent story telling with thought- provoking premises.  This was the first book by Banks I ever read and easily my favorite still.  I've read it at least half a dozen times and it holds up on every re-reading.	2004-01-15
US	45189732	R2AL85PWSC3HJW	0553502344	586173981	Don't Know Much About History (Don't Know Much About Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good, Well-Narrated Overview of American History	The author boldly states in his pre-amble that the reason most Americans don't know much about their own history is primarily twofold -- first, that schools cut out much of what is \\"bad\\" in our history, and second, that schools make history dull.  This series goes a long way toward overcoming the first short-coming of school history by presenting both the heroic and not-so-heroic moments in the history of our country.  On the second point, it makes a little headway, but not enough.  One of my great objections to the study of history in school was always that it involved the rote memorization of dates, place names and events, without any real analysis or context.  Here, everything is set in a context that gives the dates and names meaning, but it is impossible to give even an overview of 200 years of history in 22 hours without lists of names, places and dates, and there is still plenty of that here.  In addition, Davis goes a little too far in trying to rectify the often candy-coated view of history, thus spending an awful lot of time on the United States' mistreatment of native Americans and African Americans (referred to as Indians and blacks in the book), while giving short shrift to science and culture and barely touching on such things as the extent to which the U.S. government was aware of the Nazis' treatment of jews during World War II.<br />All that said, one of the joys of this series is Dick Estell's excellent narration, which gives life to even the dullest of passages.  It is also refreshing to finally be able to hear about the more human side of history, or at least the more human side of our presidents and other political leaders as well as the leading men of industry.  There is an attempt, as well, to incorporate culture and art into the narrative, although some of that comes off as particularly disjointed and not sufficiently tied to the main narrative, especially since there is almost no discussion of how average Americans lived at any point in history, besides incidental references to tenements and general statements about the plight of immigrants and the poor.<br />One can certainly also quibble with the choice of events in recent history, although to be fair, there has not been adequate time for any historian to deal with the events of September 11th or the Clinton presidency.  Davis tries very hard to be even-handed in his treatment of the various political parties, although his disdain for the treatment of minorities throughout U.S. history tends to come off somewhat on the liberal side, a view that is offset, however, by his almost entirely negative report of the Clinton presidency.<br />In spite of the book's shortcomings, however, this is a wonderful overview of the defining events in U.S. history, with a nice selection of recommendations for more in-depth reading, as well as a good selection of \\"American Voices,\\" quotes from real life participants in the events reveiwed.  All in all, for those who, like me, don't have a comprehensive knowledge of American history, this is an excellent starting place and is great company on the road.  I will definitely be listening to this one again to pick up things that didn't really sink in the first time around, since a lot is covered here.	2004-01-11
US	45189732	R2GY2FK4D7E0MO	0553575384	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Screwball comedy and Chaos theory in the Victorian era	Connie Willis' books tend to combine her love of history, literature, chaos theory and Preston Sturges-type screwball comedies to varying effect.  In &quot;To Say Nothing of the Dog,&quot; her sort-of-squel to &quot;The Doomsday Book,&quot; she finally perfects the combination.  Following the format of Victorian era books such as Jerome K. Jerome's &quot;Three Men in a Boat (To Say Nothing of the Dog)&quot;, from which she takes the books name, Connie takes us on a romp through time to locate an urn called the Bishop's Bird Stump, which a wealthy American crackpot wants for her true-to-the-tiniest-detail 22nd century reconstruction of Coventry Cathedtral, which was bombed during World War II.  But a time traveller coming back from the Victorian era has made a critical and previously thought impossible mistake by bringing something back through with her, something that must be returned or the entire space time conintinuum might fall apart.<br />Ned Henry is sent back to the Victorian era to rest and recover from a bad case of time lag, and to return the object before it's absend can rip apart the fabric of time and causality.  But almost from the moment of his arrival, things go wrong, and Ned and the beautiful time-travelling Verity have to think on their feet, while juggling an overbearing Victorian matricarch, a possibily murderous butler, thieving mediums, a bulldog, a cat that likes exotic fish, and Verity's ditzy &quot;cousin&quot; Tossie, an ideal example of Victorian womanhood and the nexus around whom everything turns.<br />History, science, math, poetry, chaos theory, time travel and animal husbandry all come together in a terribly clever way to help Ned and Verity solve a mystery, while several young loves blossom in spite of a host of obstacles.  A clever, engaging and literate adventure that just gets better everytime I read it.	2004-01-03
US	45189732	RB4QCZNHF0LU8	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	8	12	N	N	If the Christian right became the U.S.' Taliban...	I recently picked up this book again, which I hadn't read since the '80's.  I expected it not to hold up well, but was surprised instead to find it more timely and moving than ever.  When something like the takeover of the Taliban in Afghanistan, or the Nazi takeover of Germany happens, we sit there and wonder how it could happen and how the victims couldn't see it coming.  Margaret Atwood's miracle here is that she shows you how it might come and you understand how people got caught up in it.  She also persuades you that it could happen here.  This is a sad and scary book, but one that is incredibly compelling and believable.<br />The book deals quite a bit with the pressing concerns of religion in America in the '80's, but they are problems that haven't left us today and, in some respects, are more prominent than when Atwood wrote her book -- a declining birth rate, increasing birth defects, a fundamental split in how the left and the right view abortion, clinic bombings, a movement to keep women at home, etc., and by the time the book starts, a far-right splinter group has taken power and stripped almost everyone in society, especially women, of their power and freedom.  Atwood looks at how such a society would function and how it would affect its various members, from the wealthy and powerful men who run it, to their barren and houseridden wives, to the servants (men in the military, women in the house) to the handmaids, the fertile women possibily capable in a society not reproducing quickly enough of becoming surrogate mothers for the wealthy and powerful whose wives cannot provide healthy children.<br />This is the ultimate tale of what happens when a society takes away women's rights, especially the right of a woman to control what happens to her body.  As the \\"Aunts\\" who train the new handmaids to their job would say, there is \\"freedom to\\" and \\"freedom from,\\" and while women are free from rape, they are not free to do anything, include use their real names,their only designation being by to whom they belong at any given moment -- Offred, Ofwarren, etc.  The Aunts are meant to conjure up the Jewish capos in the Nazi death camps -- affected people who accept positions of power from their oppressors and use it to help further the oppression.  Although Atwood's book is awfully quiet on the subject of race, she does draw from the experiences of American slaves and their status in society, including those who risked their lives to get them to safety.<br />The book is written as the after-the-fact diary of Offred, whose fate is refreshingly ambiguous.  I've always disliked the ending, the tacked on \\"presentation\\" of a paper on the society in which Offred lived and which examines her diary to determine whether it is real. While it fills in some nice gaps (and lets us know the society it describes ultimately fails), it feels uneccessary and doesn't have the impact of the rest of the book, which is a back and forth between Offred's memories of her husband, child, best friend, and mother and the life she led before, and her current life, which involves a lot of waiting and doing nothing, of watching one's behavior very carefully, and of being afraid to develop friendships and afraid to offend.  And of offering your body as a surrogate for a wife who despises you and only wants the child that you hopefully have to offer if you want a guaranteed life away from the relocation camps cleaning up toxic waste and not hanging on the death wall for some transgression against society.<br />A moving account of a repressive Christian society, this book made me grateful for what I have, fears and all.	2003-12-31
US	45189732	R3TFT91524NT4Z	0936184167	964129033	How to Make a Pie	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Tells you why and how you do things a certain way	I was skeptical that this book was going to produce better pies than the ones I make out of How To Cook Everything or Williams Sonoma's Pies and Tarts but it does.  From a thorough but brief discussion of why you use the ratio of fat to flour suggested and why you really use both butter and vegetable shortening (they melt at different temperatures so there is separation in the crust at more then one point in the baking, which makes the crust flakier), to discussions of the best types of apples to use for apple pie, and which spice combinations tested best.  These are instructions from people who tested pies every way you can think of, and found out what worked best for each part, offered up with explanations of why it works best.<br />This is a concise, short book, and the best primer on pies you could ever have.  It's going to make all my pie-making better, even when I dig back into the big books.  People noticed an improvement from my already great pies with the first one I baked out of this small collection.  Worth every penny.	2003-12-31
US	45189732	R2AQ3ED09DO74H	037540340X	682555219	The Road to Mars: A Post-Modem Novel	Books	2	6	8	N	N	The Road to Oblvion for Eric Idle if He Keeps This Up	Eric Idle tries very hard here to be funny while offering deep insights into the meaning and function of comedy, but unfortunately doesn't succeed at being either funny or meaningful.  This is really more of Idle's excuse for why comics are so f***ed up and why we should really feel sorry for them.  The first part of the story reads like bad Douglas Adams, but then Idle just starts trying too hard and the book gets worse.  Ironically, the mystery of what is going on with the cruise ship Keppler on which Idle's fictional comedy team of Lewis and Muscroft gets stuck is more interesting than his musings on comedy.<br />I should have realized the book was going to be weak when I read Steve Martin's front cover testimonial, which says &quot;I laugh. I cried.  Then I read the book.&quot;  Funny, but not exactly a testimonial, more like the thing your friend says when he wants to give you a good quote but doesn't really like the book.  If you're jonesing for good science fiction comedy and have run out of Douglas Adams' books, try the British sci fi comedy series  &quot;Red Dwarf,&quot; or buy Sharyn McCrumb's &quot;Bimbos of the Death Sun,&quot; which is dated but nevertheless excellent. But skip this book unless you really have nothing better to fall back on.  It's readable, and it's moderately enjoyable, but it's not really very good.  A disappointing effort from a genuine hero of the comedy world.	2003-12-11
US	45189732	R1FUU3U816799U	034541215X	291896517	Bimbos of the Death Sun	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Comedy/mystery for the misfit in us all	As mysteries go, this book isn't much, but as a comedy/life study it still ranks as one of the best, in spite of being slightly outdated.<br />Sharyn McCrumb is a noted mystery writer, better known for her serious work, but here she sets her &quot;mystery&quot; at a sci fi/fantasy convention filled with a host of zany misfits and social outcasts and pays homage to a slew of science fiction and fantasy greats.  The author shows a genuine fondness and respect for the people who are grocers, hotel workers and students in their every day lives, but come alive when given a chance to get together with their fellow geeks and dress up as sci fi/fantasy characters to play role-playing games, watch classic old movies and hear well-known authors speak.  One such author is Appin Dungannon, the diminutive and hostile writer of a fantasy series featuring the Celtic warrior Tratyn Runewind, who is the source of both the author's fame and his reknowned wrath and disdain for his fans.  When the author turns up dead at a sci fi/fantasy convention, Lt. Ayhran, the police officer assigned to investigate the murder, must deal with wargamers, elves, filksingers and Jay Omega, an engineering Ph.D. who has written the unfortunately titled &quot;Bimbos of the Death Sun,&quot; and is attending his first con with his folklore professor girlfriend, Marion.  The two team up with the police to help solve the murder, but not before taking us on an adventure through the world of the fantasy convention.  I fell in love with the fat girls, the skinny nerds, the would-be authors, the tech geeks, and all the other characters that populate this novel.  The book is laugh out loud funny in places, educational about folklore, and compassionate in the extreme. A fun, quick read that you'll come back to time and time again, because even when you know who did it, you'll still want to hang out with the characters.	2003-11-16
US	45189732	R12GO7G9LRHOCQ	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Thought provoking but not a page turner	This is the type of book I wanted to like a lot more, but which just didn't get me emotionally involved.  It gets 4 stars because there's no 3 1/2 to give it, pushed up rather than down largely because of the ending (which raises all kinds of wonderful questions about everything that came before).  The first half of the book follows Pi Patel's life up to the age of 16, mostly dealing with his quest for religion and the animals in his family's Indian zoo, both in a great deal more detail than could possibly be interesting.  I mean I love animals, but lists of all the animals in the zoo and all the things they do just seem to be taking up space after awhile.  The numerous religious musings in ponderous language get to seem like a parody of how Westerners think Indians talk.  All of which is just a very long lead in to the heart of the story, which is Pi's survival at sea in a lifeboat after the sinking of the ship carrying Pi, his family, and the zoo animals to Canada to start a new life.<br />The second half of the book is taken up with long descriptions of Pi's first days at sea and the plight of the animals that have taken refuge with him.  Warning to sensitive readers -- a lot of the descriptions of the suffering of Pi and the animals are quite brutal and told in excruciating detail.  The book's cover description may make this seem like a cute or allegorical tiger that shares Pi's days at sea, but it is a real tiger, with a real tiger's appetite and instincts that the author describes for a good half of this book.  The author is extremely good at taking us through Pi's plight and his suffering.  After awhile, however, although I cared about Pi and admired his cleverness and his will to survive, I found Pi's monotony becoming my own.  I discovered how much my initial enthusiasm had waned after I accidentally forgot where I was, and reread an entire scene, not realizing until after I'd reread it that I had forgotten a major plot point.  There's also something aboutthe rather devious framing device that left me with a somewhat bad taste about this book.<br />I have to give credit to the author, however, for his patience in taking us through Pi's days at sea at a pace appropriate to what his protagonist suffers, and to creating a wonderfully ambiguous ending that makes you question what we will really do to survive.  Any more than this would be a spoiler.  This is a good read, one worth the effort, but don't expect the read of the year.	2003-10-14
US	45189732	R2ZEQMDE6WHS15	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	2	12	16	N	Y	Okay yarn, badly told and too impressed with itself	The best I can say for Dan Brown here is at that at least he cops to all the sources for his story (including not only the 1980's best seller &quot;Holy Blood, Holy Grail,&quot; but Brown's own prequel!).  The real problem with this book is that it's just badly written.<br />The plot itself is moderately entertaining, but Brown engages in the annoying habit of dancing around a topic for chapters and chapters to avoid telling the reader what the characters already know.  Brown repeatedly refers to what Sophie saw her grandfather doing that kept her from speaking to him for twenty years, but doesn't reveal it until near the end, so while it remains a mystery to us, it's hard for us to have any sympathy with Sophie's trauma and, after a while, we just don't care what she saw.  And having a &quot;cliffhanger&quot; every four pages just gets tiresome, as do the intellectual and artistic references that don't drive the plot, but seem to be there simply so that we can be impressed with the wealth of Dan Brown's knowledge.  Is it really descriptive to say that the evening made Langdon feel like he was in a Salvador Dali painting?  There are enough artistic and scientific references that fit in with the plot to make this uneccessary.  Finally, some of the plot points (which I won't spoil), are just too convenient, stuck in to make for a tidy wrap up of certain loose threads.<br />I was looking forward to a good yarn involving art, science and religion, but considering the lack of anything novel in the plot, it would have to be a lot better written to have held my attention.  The underlying concepts, e.g., the notion of the perfect number, the symbolism in ancient and renaissance art and architecture, etc., are really interesting and I wanted to read more about them.  The hokey plot and mediocre writing just kept interrupting all the good stuff.<br />A decent read on the topic if you don't want too much of a challenge, but if you're willing to work a little, Umberto Eco's &quot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot; is a much more rewarding Knights Templar conspiracy romp.ot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot; is a much more rewarding Knights Templar conspiracy romp.	2003-09-22
US	45189732	RFM6397498DZL	0449907635	616833362	The Cat Who Went to Paris	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Comedy and literature from a reformed cat hater	This book is a delight, regardless of one's feelings about cats, although cat lovers will take particular pleasure in Peter Gethers' transformation from avowed lifelong cat hater to, er, pussy-whipped cat partner for life.  Gethers' writing sings, with lots of comedy and literary references as he uses his relationship with his Scottish Fold, Norton, as a wonderful excuse to make observations on the social habits of New Yorker, Parisians, Californians and others, and on the power of cute, furry creatures as chick bait.  An easy but intelligent read, this is a great book for anyone appreciates cats or skillful writing.	2003-09-09
US	45189732	RFPB4YGK3Z62R	0300085907	263355948	Dosso Dossi Court Painter in Renaissance Ferrara	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	What an Art History Book Should Be	This is exactly how you want a book on a painter to be.  The book features beautiful and large reproductions of the work of Dosso Dossi and of Dosso's brother, Battista, as well as works of painters, such as Giorgione and Rafael, that influenced Dosso.  The paintings and illustrations are conveniently numbered and referred to by number in the many essays that fill the book. The essays themselves are wonderful.  The subjects range from speculation about Dosso's influences, to the influence Dosso himself had on painting in his part of Italy, to a discussion of his techniques, which are the most intersting part of the book.  Dosso changed his works directly on the canvas, rather than planning them out first.  New x-ray technology has revealed the underlying layers of paint, and many of the original versions Dosso painted are shown here, along with much speculation on why he made the changes he did.  Even if you are not a Dosso Dossi fan, the book is a valuable study into the mind and techniques of an artist, and to the state of painting in central and northern Italy during the Renaissance.	2003-08-15
US	45189732	R7V2JDE74NKQA	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	0	1	N	N	At last a Non-Sappy &quot;chick&quot; book	I usually can't stand female bonding books, but this one is different.  Without giving too much away, the book centers on Lily, a young girl being raised by her emotionally withdrawn and often abusive father on a peach farm in the south in the sixties.  Lily is an outcast, whose only real friend is the black housekeeper who has been looking after her since her mother died.<br />The bees that Lily finds flying around her bedroom and a racially motivated incident inspire Lily to embark on a journey to discover the truth about what happened to her mother.  The journey takes Lily to a honey farm, and sisters August, June and May, who become Lily's family, giving her the love and strength she needs to confront her past while teaching her to care for the fierce but delicate bees in August's care.<br />This novel is beautifully crafted, skillfully using technical information about bees and honey-making as a metaphor for Lily's search for the truth.  Although there is an undercurrent of the racial tensions that were so prominent in the south during the sixties, the story here is really about family and what it means to belong and to accept.<br />It's rare to find coming of age type stories with female protagonists, and this one has five, along with a wonderful mix of the male characters who round out Lily's world.  As I read it, I found myself admiring Kidd's skill at weaving a good yarn while filling her book with emotion of the non-tear-jerking kind.  This is the best first novel I've read in a long time.	2003-07-28
US	45189732	R2VG295VO8O144	0028610105	755707312	How To Cook Everything: Simple Recipes for Great Food	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Helpful for Beginning and Experienced Cooks	This cookbook is great if you are new to cooking or are more experienced generally but need basic tips in certain areas.  Divided into convenient sections by type of food, the book gives you all the info you need to work with every type of food -- meat, fish, vegetables, grains, etc.<br />This book really should be sub-titled Simple Recipes for Good Food, not Great Food, since everything seems to be good, just not out of this world.  Unless you are an absolute beginner who doesn't know anything, The New Basics and other books have recipes that result in better tasting food, although the recipes there are slightly more time-consuming and complicated.<br />One of the best features of this book is the lists the author has helpfully compiled -- sauces you can freeze, dishes you can make in less than 30 minutes start to finish, soups that make a good meal in and of themselves, etc.  It's a huge help in menu planning for the week.  It helps you allocate time and plan meals in advance.  Great for working people who don't have that much time to cook.<br />The book also contains useful information on shopping and setting up a kitchen.  It really is terrific for someone without a great deal of cooking experience or who could use improvement with his or her techniques, and is also quite good for people who know who to cook but want good, simple recipes at hand or who need help with managing their kitchen time.	2003-04-02
US	45189732	RXWNMJF1GKFV	0345368754	276635923	Foucault's Pendulum	Books	5	25	29	N	N	Oh so complex but very fun and clever	Don't even try to follow all the details in this one, just go with the flow.  Eco cleverly combines the Knights Templar, Jewish Mysticism, South American native tribes, language, witchcraft, physics, Francis Bacon, the various calendars, European history, middle Eastern history, and more, in a caper that starts out as a game to entertain three friends in the publishing business in Italy and ends up being the mother of all conspiracies.<br />This book is much more entertaining, in my opionion, than the Name of the Rose as it involves a much more clever interplay of various disciplines and is more than a mere murder mystery.  As in the Name of the Rose, Eco introduces each chapter with writings in a variety of languages -- Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Spanish, etc.  Unless you are particularly interested in ancient languages and obscure historical writings, it is safe to ignore these but for a general sense of flavor.  It is also nearly impossible to actually follow all the details of the plot, which deals with a group of publishers who conceive of the idea to publish \\"writers\\" with far-out theories for a fee, only to find that some of the theories add-up to a great mystical conspiracy. Once I gave up trying to follow all the intricate details of the plot, I found the experience quite enjoyable.  I'm looking forward to reading this book again to find all the things I missed the first time.  Eco's depth and breadth of knowledge in so many areas is impressive.  This man is definitely a genius.<br />In short, this book is not for anyone who doesn't want to have to do a little work as it is neither a quick nor an easy read and the subject matter is fairly esoteric.  But, oh, is it worth the effort.	2003-03-05
US	45189732	R1YYM3MUV8WDY	0894803417	865313367	The New Basics Cookbook	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Simply the best general cookbook ever	This cookbook has it all.  Recipes for everything from stocks and sauces, to fish, meat, grains, vegetables, salads, starters and sweets, all in well-organized categories and easy-to-follow format.  The results are also superb.  No recipe I've tried has been a clunker and some are among the best ever -- Basil Barley Provencal is a vegetable and grain sensation, and oatmeal cookies are better than any other recipe I've tried or any store bought (and are ridiculously easy, to boot).<br />In addition to the recipes, there are concise and useful summaries of how to work with various ingredients (what types of fish need to be filleted and how to do it, what type can be served as steaks, etc.) and handy charts comparing various types of ingredients and how to work with them. A chart summarizing, for instance, all the different types of rice with a description of their flavors, cooking times and uses is nice.  These charts come in very useful when, for instance, your package of barley does not, in fact, tell you how to cook it!  Look it up in the handy grain chart and all the info is there.  Especially useful when using unfamiliar ingredients.<br />The only thing that could make this book better would be if ingredients were listed in the order in which they need to be handled, and if total preparation and cooking time were stated, but since the recipes are so clear, a thorough reading in advance can solve this problem.  If you only have one cookbook, this is the one to have.  If you have lots, you will find yourself returning to this one over and over for its ease of use and wonderful recipes.	2003-03-05
US	45189732	R3P1FRU8OF5ABH	0316755613	102853136	Carnevale Italiano: The Romagnolis' Meatless Cookbook	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Easy, interesting and delicious -- worth tracking down	After spending three hours last night preparing a just okay dish from The Greens cookbook, I had to jump on the net and find out if my favorite cookbook is still in print.  Alas, it isn't, but in case anyone wanders to this page, here is what you can expect if you find this book somewhere:<br />The meatless in the title means this book has vegetable and fish recipes.  These are very traditional Italian recipes, divided into convenient categories (pasta, soups, side dishes, etc.), but what makes them great is not only how quick, easy and tasty they are (my favorite recipe, ziti with tomato and tuna sauce, takes 20 minutes start to finish), but that the Romagnolis really tell you how to make the recipes using Italian ingredients, or how to adapt them to more easily available American products.  For instance, the Romagnolis tell you what makes Italian tuna different from American and tell you where you can find the Italian version, but also tell you that you are perfectly okay using American tuna packed in oil. The only drawback is that sometimes the American vesion is available in different quantities than the Italian.  For instance, my favorite recipe calls for a 7-oz. can of tuna, but American tuna is sold in 6 oz. cans.  This is only a minor inconvenience, however, as amounts don't need to be all that precise.<br />There is a great introduction on Italian ingredients in general, and many of the recipes are introduced by a short history on the dish.  Instructions and clear and concise.  The recipes cover a wide range of ingredients and are great for full meals for non-meat eaters, or vegetable or pasta dishes to accompany a meat main course.  Many are simple enough that you can see what is fresh at the market and then choose your dish to match. Highly recommended.	2003-02-15
US	45189732	R3EJS496FPGWWF	0767908236	958766313	The Greens Cookbook: Extraordinary Vegetarian Cuisine from the Celebrated Restaurant	Books	2	72	100	N	N	Don't try this at home!	The Greens restaurant in San Francisco was one of the greatest things ever to come along for vegetarians.  A true gourmet dining experience where not even the most die-hard meat eater would have a bad experience.  Nothing earthy-crunchy here.<br />That said, my title says it all -- don't try this at home.  At least not unless you are an extremely experienced cook with lots of time and patience.  The ingredients are difficult to work with and the instructions are given only with using them completely from scratch with fancy equipment, for instance, grinding whole spices in a spice mill.  No powdered spice equivalents are given.  Instructions seem simple, e.g., peel the winter squash and dice it into one-inch cubes, but until you have tried to peel and work with winter squash, you don't realize how difficult and time-consuming it is.  I thought I was going to end up in the E.R.<br />The book also doesn't give you any idea of prep and cooking time.  I've started out in the afternoon making a meal out of the most uncomplicated sounding receipes in the book, so I'd have plenty of time to relax before dinner, only to find myself still working on the meal at eleven p.m.  And most of the recipes are more complicated.<br />Frankly, the results aren't worth the bother.  The resulting food is, for the most part, good, but not great.  It may be worth it to you if you really love to cook and have lots of spare time, but for the rest of us, there are books on the market that are more helpful and lead to quicker meals that are just as tasty.  This one is strictly for the pros.	2003-02-14
US	45189732	RUIUVRTXBC7GV	5551839168	835533545	When Gravity Fails	Books	5	47	47	N	Y	OOP but still a classic SF thriller worth chasing down	George Alec Effinger wrote three books about Marid Audran, a private investigator living in the Budayeen, the red light district of an unnamed Arab country in the 23rd century (but in actuality modeled on the French quarter in New Orleans, where Effinger lived).  When Gravity Fails is the first of the three books, which introduce us to Marid, who was raised in Algeria by his mother, an Algerian prostitute, and who never knew his French father.  Considered a barbarian north african by the Arabs in his city, Marid lives on the fringes among the drug dealers and users, and the strippers, protitutes, sex changes and outcasts that live just outside the law, working as a private detective when he can find a client.  Marid prides himself on being unwired, that is, unlike most residents of the Budayeen, Marid has not adapted his brain to accept personality modules, or Moddies, or add-ons, better known as Daddies.  Nor does Marid work or live under the largesse or protection of Friedlander Bey, better known as Papa, who controls most the business, legitimate or otherwise, in the Budayeen.<br />When a client is killed in front of Marid's eyes and Marid's acquaintances start dying horrible deaths, Marid is drawn into an uneasy alliance with both the police, whom he does not trust, and Papa, to whom he does not want to be beholden.<br />Effinger has created a world that is unlike most science fiction books, keeping the actual science light, and letting us believe that this is how the Arab world might be in the 23rd century, with not much changed except a bit of technology.  Effinger offers both an interesting who and why-dunnit, while examining the issues of faith and identity.  Is Marid, a heavy drug and alcohol user who lives by his own code and is committed neither to Allah nor any other human, the faithful one, or is it Papa, who kills and extorts in the name of business but who faithfully prays 5 times a day?  What is it like to be an outsider, and how do you find yourself?<br />This book is sadly out of print, but easily available used on the internet.  Still compelling after all this time and well worth tracking down.	2003-02-10
US	45189732	R2EZ7QJXF5X38U	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Chaos, Fads and Old-Fashioned Romance	Connie Willis combines her love of chaos theory, science, literature and screwball comedies into an entertaining romance set in the world of high-tech research.<br />Sandra Foster is a sociologist researching fads, and Bennett O'Riley studies chaos theory at a commercial research insitute called Hi-Tek.  When the incompetent and outrageous departmental assistant, Flip, misdelivers a package and fails to hand in a research funding form on time, she sets off a chain reaction of events that forces Drs. Foster and Bennett to combine their studies into one. As the remaining scientists at Hi-Tek try desperately to figure out how to win the coveted but mysterious Niebnitz grant, Foster and Bennett try to study information diffusion in higher mammals.  Unfortunately, the only higher mammals on which they can get their hands are a flock of sheep, which bear a surprising resemblence to the people who inhabit Dr. Foster's day-to-day world.  In the process of trying to find out why people behave as they do, Drs. Foster and Bennett rediscover their love of science and discover their love for each other.  Along the way, they are helped out by the strangely competent Shirl, who no one else wants around because she smokes, but who seems to understand science, sheep, and perhaps a whole lot more.<br />Connie Willis successfully conveys a joy of science and literature, while wryly looking at the trials and tribulations of trying to be trendy and successful.  It's hard to describe this melange of sheep, Barbie dolls, personal ads and science adequately, but if you like intelligent and literate humor with a touch of romance, this book is for you.	2003-02-03
US	45189732	R17JCZITK964X7	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	5	11	14	N	N	For everyone who's ever felt different or out-of-place	This is definitely a difficult book in that it deals with a highly dysfunctional family, but Myla Goldberg makes you care about each and every family member and relate to each one's particular pain.  Eliza is the unexceptional child of brilliant parents who have expectations for her which she is incapable of fulfilling.  Her cantor father and lawyer mother love her, but manage nevertheless to convey to her their disappointment in her ordinariness and lack of scholastic and intellectual achievement.  Eliza's mother can't relate to her husband or her children, and her father, Sol, a deeply religious man, has managed to form a close bond only with Eliza's brother, who plays the guitar and wants to be a cantor like Dad.<br />When Eliza discovers she has an unusual gift for spelling, it seems her prayers have been answered.  She gets noticed for the first time, and for the first time her father is able to relate to her as something more than a blood relation who needs to be fed and clothed.  As her spelling ability progresses and takes her to previously unknown levels of personal satisfaction, Sol begins to live vicariously through Eliza, seeking to use her to gratify his dreams of transcendence through the Jewish Kabbala.  As Sol and Eliza become, closer, however, Eliza's brother gets lost in the shuffle and sets out on his own spiritual journey which takes him away from his life and his family.  And as Sol and his two children seek their spiritual salvation, Eliza's mother falls deeper into a secret life that is shocking to discover for both her family and the readers of this book.<br />This book is extremely well-written and the characters fleshed-out.  While the family's situation can make for uncomfortable reading at times, it is well worth it.	2003-01-25
US	45189732	RRAYWJETOYO9X	067940676X	390063795	French for Cats: All the French Your Cat Will Ever Need	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Funny and Useful, Too!	Aside from being a very funny compendium of cat thought and behavior, this book helped me learn French by inspiring me to remember and use phrases such as &quot;I think I am going to cough up a hairball&quot; (useful in bad French restaurants) and &quot;I prefer to bathe myself.&quot;  The sentences may be cute and silly, but they are in proper French, with proper sentence structure, and simple enough to provide useful grammatical tools and vocabulary.  The pictures are cute, too.<br />If nothing else, it will amuse your friends who love cats (and even those who don't).	2003-01-08
US	45189732	R3K2GLG60HJUZA	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	3	21	30	N	N	Fascinating but difficult to get through	September 2011  Further update: After now rereading this book yet again and reading the source material on which much of this book is based, as well as the sources behind the sources, including the chronicles written in French, I can say that while Tuchman's writing and organization is remarkable, the book is not very accurate, but includes much that was propaganda and rumor added much later in history than the 14th century, e.g., that Charles VI of France had \\"a bland, impassive face, mirror of a shallow soul\\" (he was probably schizophrenic, and lack of affect is a symptom of schizophrenia) or that Charles' wife, Isabella of Bavaria, was wanton and had many lovers (there is no evidence of this from contemporaneous sources and no suggestion of this until the 17th century).  Still a great read, just not really history.  ------------------------  Update:  Fifth time seems to be the charm but, of course, before tackling this book again I've read about two dozen other books on the time period, which definitely makes this one more manageable.  In other words, this isn't a beginner book, as Tuchman's effort to be inclusive and comprehensive can get really confusing.  History doesn't keep itself down to logical plot lines and a limited cast of characters, and Tuchman covers everybody, even some of the more minor players.  The book still bogged down for me in the same places it originally did -- the first half, which covers such well-known events as the Hundred Years War and the Black Death, is definitely more interesting than the second, which focuses more on events in Germany and Italy, particularly the Pope's battles with the Viscontis.  If Amazon would let me revise my rating, I'd probably upgrade this to four stars, at least for anyone with some familiarity with the history of the middle ages.  If you are new to this time period, start with Thomas Costain's books and come back to this one when the overwhelming cast of characters won't seem so, well, overwhelming.  --------------------------------------------------------------  My original review:  I've tried reading this book repeatedly over the last two years and, although the material is interesting, just find it a slog.  Tuchman presumes a lot of knowledge about the 14th century on the part of the reader which, combined with the often dense writing, makes it difficult to get through.  Tuchman's clever twist is to focus on the life of one French nobleman.  This should make the narrative more personal, but frequently results in portions of history, especially outside England and France, feeling short-changed or forced, and making the narrative difficult to follow.  If you have some basic understanding of the middle ages in France or England and can get through it, though, it gives a great overall impression of what life in 14th century Europe must have been like.	2003-01-07
US	45189732	RQJ03NEL7UAOW	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Moving depiction of the Middle Ages despite some illogic	I've read this book over a dozen times, in two languages, and am still moved by it every time I read it.  This story of Kivrin, a young university student in the near future in England, who becomes the first person to time travel to the 14th century, jumps between the 1300's and the near future.  Yes, as many reviewers have noted, the futuristic portion of the book is somewhat weak and not nearly as interesting as those set in the fourteenth century, but the portions set in the middle ages make you forgive everything else.<br />Kivrin arrives in the fourteenth century ill and confused.  She is rescued and taken in by a family in a small village, and engaged to look after the two young daughters of the household.  As she comes to know the people in the village, we come to care deeply about the family and the townspeople and their fate in an uncertain time. I've cried everytime I've read this book, and not in a cheap heart-string tugging way, but over the faith and humanity in the face of an ugly time, a message that is as timely as ever. Moreover, Ms. Willis' details about day-to-day life, including religion, medicine, and child-rearing, are fascinating and well fleshed-out.<br />Get past the logical inconsistencies in the modern story.  This is a much better book about the middle ages than the scientific gobbledy gook and swashbuckling of \\"Timeline,\\" and a great introduction to one of the worst periods and places in human history.	2003-01-07
US	45189732	RXTPN7KNF8PBA	1572702621	312838751	1000 Years of English Royalty: William the Conqueror to Elizabeth II (Audio Editions)	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Annoyingly concise yet fascinating overview of the royals	Unfortunately this series, especially the second tape, assumes the listerner already has a basic knowledge of the history presented.  Readings from the monarch's actual letters,etc., prove annoying on repeated listening.  At the same time, Derek Jacobi's reading is wonderful and these tapes present an excellent, if occasionally mystifying, overview of the kings and queens of England and their triumphs, mistakes and tribulations. Worth repeated listenings with liberal use of the fast forward button.	2002-10-24
US	45189732	R3659JI0T41HW	015100692X	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Class and Gender in the Victorian Era	Once you get past the pretentious second person device used to get you into the story, you get a great read about Sugar, a 19-year old prostitute, and her benefactor, perfume tycoon William Rackham.  If you're looking for a sordid or sensual read, look elsewhere, but if you're interested in Victorian customs, lifestyles and religious beliefs, how gender and social class affected these, and the Victorian attitude toward music, medicine and children, all thoroughly researched and told in an enticing and generally well-written story, it's all here.	2002-10-11
US	45189732	R2QVHED4XJEFT9	0609601946	568257466	Ultimate French: Advanced: Cassette/Book Package (LL(R) Ultimate Advanced Course)	Books	3	24	28	N	N	Poor Sound Quality and Snobbery Ruins Otherwise Good Product	I have the Italian version of this product and it is much better so this is a disappointment.  Sound quality is awful - need very loud volume and everyone still sounds like they are talking in a cave.  Can't imagine I will ever need to say &quot;red and yellow reversible damask cotton&quot; in English, let alone in French.  Situations not realistic, voice-over actors bad.  Still -- the lessons are good reviews with lots of new and useful vocabulary.  Definitely for the patient or very advanced student of French, but I agree -- LL's French 2 is a better product.	2002-09-04
US	45189732	R13GGBOD9P34K1	0345321383	932766552	Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Beautiful, funny and wickedly clever	I am an avid reader of all genres and this rates as one of my favorite books of all time.  Based on folkloric Chinese ghost stories, it is at once a clever mystery, a beautiful love story, and a wickedly funny farce in which the same crazy and wonderful characters keep popping up in amusing new situations.  Barry Hughart has taken some of the most popular myths and stories of our time and anachronistically transported them back to a fantastical ancient China.  I won't repeat the main plot points (they've been summarized all too well here already), but this is simply a delightful book.  Think of a dungeon and dragons game for intelligent and well-read adults.  Many reviewers have commented on how this book made them laugh aloud.  It not only makes me laugh out loud every time I read it, its exploration of the true meaning of love and generosity also makes me cry.	2002-01-26
US	45189732	R26E4MEH508VA6	1570717125	749650885	Seizing Amber	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Interesting idea, painfully amateurish writing	The heading basically says it all.  An interesting concept with some interesting characters, but the writer tries so hard to use colorful, complex language that you just space out trying to follow it.  Way too impressed with its own cleverness.	2002-01-26
US	45189732	R23UX4BDIMTH9A	0553580515	417245650	Passage	Books	3	30	39	N	Y	The rare disappointment from an amazingly great writer	Connie Willis is by far my favorite author  and I am disappointed to say that this book doesn't hold up to her best work.  If you are new to Connie Willis, by all means pick up \\"Doomsday Book\\" first, a brilliant and moving tale of a young woman's journey back in time to 14th century England, or its sort of sequel \\"To Say Nothing of the Dog,\\" a funny and clever examination of love, history, literature, time travel, Victorian manners and most of all fate.  In \\"Passage\\" Ms. Willis explores the topic of near death experiences and life after death.  While it starts out as an intriguing mystery, the book revisits both the style and substance of many of her short stories, particularly those in \\"Impossible Things,\\" and runs out of steam far too quickly.  Without giving away the mystery of the plot, suffice it to say that the second half of the book consists of almost a complete rehash of the first half as a second set of characters tries to figure out what went wrong with the lead character's research.  Unfortunately, they don't have a different point of view or set of facts to work with, and the story is simply retold with a different set of character reactions.  Ms. Willis has an interesting point of view about near-death experiences, but unfortunately can't sustain it for a full novel.  Worth reading, but not her strongest effort and her short stories are much better explorations of the topic.	2002-01-26
US	45189732	R1H1E2T2DPM8S5	0609810979	792651617	In-Flight Greek: Learn Before You Land	Books	1	9	10	N	N	In flight confusion	This is by far the worst language-related product I have ever purchased.  This CD assumes that you can learn a language by memorizing long, complicated phrases by rote with no foundation whatsoever in vocabulary or grammar.  It is just not possible to remember long setences relating to travel without first learning anything about the basic grammar of a language.  The phrases aren't even repeated or broken down.  This CD might be useful if you have already taken some modern Greek and want to brush up on travel phrases. Otherwise save your money -- most Greeks who work in airports and hotels speak English and this CD won't help you have much of a conversation with anyone who doesn't.	2001-08-19
