US	45192057	R21GEBPZEAA9AQ	1928832253	965216129	The One-Minute Philosopher	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An Analytic Proposition	My experience with books professing to offer a shortcut to knowledge has not been positive.  Most often the eye-catching, pithy titles also represent the full breadth of information the reader is likely to garner from the text. THE ONE-MINUTE PHILOSOPHER was a pleasant surprise in that regard, even though as I suspected the title promised more than, realistically, the book could ever deliver.  It is a treasure trove of fundamental precepts we customarily employ in our daily lives yet often fail to fully understand.<br /><br />Montague Brown, PhD., a professor of philosophy at St. Anselm College, wrote the book to address a generalized need in our era of shortened attention spans and anticipated immediate response. Many of us do not, or will not, take the time to study philosophical issues, preferring to depend on what we perceive to be the most expedient answers.  In a very concise format, the author compares and contrasts paired concepts such as authority and power, reason and logic or patriotism and nationalism; that are regularly confused with one another, typically resulting in imprecise communication and therefore avoidable misunderstandings.  The referent terms are aligned opposite each other in a left page/right page layout, with three explanatory paragraphs devoted to each. Similarities, differences and interdependencies are further illuminated in a one-line summarization that spans both pages. Additional insights are offered via quotations from notable individuals, and a set of questions the reader might use to test his understanding.<br /><br />The title is somewhat misleading. Brown attempts to clarify common terms that are customarily found in philosophic discourse but he does not address schools of thought or their adherents. I do not think it would be unreasonable to consider the book a bridge between philosophy and a self-help dictionary, although the author never attempts to present a platform of recommended corrective actions or generic solutions. He focuses on one possible meaning for each term; in most instances his interpretation can be challenged by another view or definition of the same term. The book should be seen as one resource, a starting point rather than a panacea of parenthetical examination. He has included a very good appendix where the interested party can identify other sources for expansion of any covered area.<br /><br />It is my opinion (as opposed to judgment) THE ONE-MINUTE PHILOSOPHER is a must-have reference book.possible meaning for each term; in most instances his interpretation can be challenged by another view or definition of the same term. The book should be seen as one resource, a starting point rather than a panacea of parenthetical examination. He has included a very good appendix where the interested party can identify other sources for expansion of any covered area.    It is my opinion (as opposed to judgment) THE ONE-MINUTE PHILOSOPHER is a must-have reference book.	2001-11-06
US	45192057	RAVKOCT09R54	0967686555	86124043	The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ (Official Edition)	Books	5	78	113	N	N	My Epiphany?	For the record, I read the entire text. But, as early as the middle of the book of I Nephi, which happens to be the very first, I realized my rating would be 5 stars. How does one rate the Christian bible, the Hebrew bible, the Qur'an, or any other book of theistic beliefs?<br /><br />Ultimately, each interlocutor will be requested at some point - in most cases at several points - to take a leap of faith. Whether one is willing to take that step is dependent on a litany of factors, many of which may not hold as much meaning for another investigator. Yet, it seems to me the major consideration is to gain some minimal understanding of the diverse concepts that influence different groups at variable levels. It has been recently reported The Church of the Latter Day Saints is the fastest growing denomination of Christianity. That alone is justification enough for me to spend some time with the basic text to their belief system.<br /><br />The Book Of Mormon is best understood with a conversational familiarity with the Christian bible. For the Mormon, it is Scripture, another testament of Jesus Christ. I am not sectarian, however even if I did subscribe to a specific religious theory, it would be difficult for me to dismiss another based exclusively on the premise at some point in time, the heavenly Father chose to terminate direct communication with his progeny. If the idea Noah could receive divine instruction to build an Ark offers concordance, it seems perfectly plausible alternative blueprints could be proffered to Nephi to cross the expanse of what we now know as the Atlantic Ocean. The New Testament is a new covenant, indicating God is susceptible to a modification of guidelines, who am I to state he didn't hedge his bets at a much earlier juncture?<br /><br />The book is tedious but so is the Old Testament. It is shortsighted to criticize or dismiss without taking the time to explore. I may not agree yet this holy testimony deserves the same amount of respect and reverence as we typically offer to the wider held beliefs.ly offer to the wider held beliefs.	2001-11-06
US	45192057	RHHS9E1IJVEUE	0684873524	544986125	Resurrecting Mingus	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Personal Foul: unnecessary roughness	It could easily have rated five stars if my feminine side wasn't on hiatus.<br /><br />If the following phrase: \\"trips right, z countermotion, all fly, on second color, break,\\" makes sense to you; if your chromosome distribution includes an identifier other than X, put down the book, quickly back away and nobody gets hurt. When Jenoyne Adams opened the first chapter with the onset of menstrual discomfort, backing away is exactly what I should have done. Now I have a barely controllable compulsion to find books about socket wrenches and muscle cars to neutralize this screed.<br /><br />Here is the thumbnail:<br /><br />Ambitious black Louisiana farm boy meets Tar Heel trailer trash white girl. Due to strong moral values instilled by his mammy of a mother and her ancient condom, child and marriage ensue. By virtue of those good 'ole' bootstraps, they make a life of it, raise two dysfunctional hybrid daughters: the older, feral and feckless; and the younger, ambitious but adrift. After 35 years, he longs for his own kind. Parvenu, rejected soon-to-be ex-wife is dejected and vindictive. Daughter number one is completely supportive of mother while continuing to dance to beat of a stereotypically described urban drummer; daughter number two, consumed with the hunt for \\"Dark Gable,\\" is conflicted although estrogen affinity wins in the end. Her greater obsession is with what it all means to her life. Written in competent prose but diminished by desultory constructed first and third person narration. An absolutely bilious characterization of black men. Dross.<br /><br />RESURRECTING MINGUS is focused on dissolution and meltdown of: marriage, people, and beliefs. The book's insights to the challenges faced by racially mixed families are occasionally moving and somewhat informative. Other concepts suffer from underdevelopment or incomplete elucidation. The major character, Mingus Browning is the 29 year old younger daughter of Carl and Elaine (called M'Dea by her children), a couple who had been married for 35 years when Carl finally reaches a crossroad where he feels unfulfilled, overwhelmed by latent animosity for the course his life has taken, and finds himself no longer willing to bear the incumbent stresses of mixed marriage. Mingus, who grew up as daddy's princess is torn by compassion for her mother, and barely contained anger regarding her father's actions.<br /><br />In reality, she has more emotional issues than there are registered certificates in a Dow 30 2 for 1 stock split. She is totally incapable of sustaining an intimate relationship with the opposite sex, and from all indications she doesn't have much better luck with women since with the exception of her secretary, the only noted relationship is of love/hate with her sister. The author seems to infer trust is a wasted commodity since the final analysis you may only depend on yourself; betrayal may come from any direction including those you hold most dear.<br /><br />Besides the above-mentioned, other significant characters are the aimless and obstreperous older sister, Eva; Eric, Mingus' primary love interest; and her father's home-wrecking trollop, Glenda. Each family member seemed isolated, not only from each other but from any meaningful external relationships whatsoever. Eva's enmity with her sister transcended mere jealousy or competitiveness for parental favor, with implications of deep-seated roots that begged for explanation but Ms. Adams only sketched the outline, without completion of the portrait.<br /><br />The author was inconsistent in the attention to detail. In realms typically construed feminine, she was fastidious whereas nuance or subtlety that may have offered greater balance were incorporated in disjunctive fashion, to the degradation of overall quality. There is lingerie fixation; allusion to comfort foods; journal entry laments about the biological clock; gut wrenching confessionals to near strangers; overwrought emotional states; irrational insecurities; fantasies of mythical knights arriving on white horses; the American dream of picket fences, rug rats and cocker spaniels; intrusion into the lives of others; hip envy/hip obsession; weight gain and booty calls. The only thing left out was a half-gallon of Ben and Jerry's ice cream - I'm guessing butterscotch flavor - and a tablespoon. The only male character she attempts to provide with three dimensionality is the father. At least, throw the ball in my direction once in a while to keep me interested. I don't think the story would have suffered by infusion of a few masculine references.<br /><br />While most major characters are portrayed in predominately uncomplimentary terms, it is black men who are subjected to the a series of sucker punches. Ms. Adams pulls off a neat parlor trick by portraying a white police officer Mingus dates a couple of times as the most positive male image. The remainder of the motley crew she created were libido-controlled manipulators or marginalized ornaments to the core storyline.<br /><br />It was suggested to me first time novelist Adams had a style reminiscent of Toni Morrison. I'll chalk up that misinformation to confused identity on the part of the referrer since I ended up on a reconnaissance mission to Terra McMillana. In one area, Ms. Adams did digress from the contemporary black writer crowd; she failed to portray women in cumulatively favorable light either. They are manipulative or manipulated, self-serving and self-interested, pusillanimous and in a couple of cases, just plain pathetic. Ms. Adams has credible skills but there are different horses for different courses; I run best on a dry track and this book calls for a mudder. On the positive side, I'm prepared to describe the effects of menstruation and associated discharge with vivid imagery.<br /><br />In summation, the author does a decent job in illuminating I what I perceive as a decidedly female point of view, but missed the mark with some one-dimensional views of men, and generally, I didn't care for that one-dimension. She articulated a rather dystopian view of heterosexual relationships with males at the root of all \\"evils.\\" ...te horses; the American dream of picket fences, rug rats and cocker spaniels; intrusion into the lives of others; hip envy/hip obsession; weight gain and booty calls. The only thing left out was a half-gallon of Ben and Jerry's ice cream - I'm guessing butterscotch flavor - and a tablespoon. The only male character she attempts to provide with three dimensionality is the father. At least, throw the ball in my direction once in a while to keep me interested. I don't think the story would have suffered by infusion of a few masculine references.    While most major characters are portrayed in predominately uncomplimentary terms, it is black men who are subjected to the a series of sucker punches. Ms. Adams pulls off a neat parlor trick by portraying a white police officer Mingus dates a couple of times as the most positive male image. The remainder of the motley crew she created were libido-controlled manipulators or marginalized ornaments to the core storyline.    It was suggested to me first time novelist Adams had a style reminiscent of Toni Morrison. I'll chalk up that misinformation to confused identity on the part of the referrer since I ended up on a reconnaissance mission to Terra McMillana. In one area, Ms. Adams did digress from the contemporary black writer crowd; she failed to portray women in cumulatively favorable light either. They are manipulative or manipulated, self-serving and self-interested, pusillanimous and in a couple of cases, just plain pathetic. Ms. Adams has credible skills but there are different horses for different courses; I run best on a dry track and this book calls for a mudder. On the positive side, I'm prepared to describe the effects of menstruation and associated discharge with vivid imagery.    In summation, the author does a decent job in illuminating I what I perceive as a decidedly female point of view, but missed the mark with some one-dimensional views of men, and generally, I didn't care for that one-dimension. She articulated a rather dystopian view of heterosexual relationships with males at the root of all \\"evils.\\" ...	2001-10-03
US	45192057	RXWTXJMMBG9F	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	54	62	N	N	A new view of where the fertile ground is found...	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL is a persuasive discourse of competitive plausibility regarding the challenging question why population groups on different continents experienced widely divergent paths of development. Contrary to the voluminous objections cited in the many of the reviews below, Professor Jared Diamond, clearly an enthusiastic proponent of environmental determinism, presents a set of premises consistent with evidence provided from a wide range of disciplines, but he does not attempt to answer the question of genetic diversity, including differentiated intelligence, among racial groups as many reviewers have inferred. If anything, implicitly, the author appears to support promulgations of differentiated intelligences; he sets out to demonstrate intelligence was not the root cause to Eurasian dominance.<br /><br />On at least two occasions Diamond, without equivocation, stated he found on average the New Guinean to be more intelligent than the average European or American. He was prompted to undertake this investigation as a result of a question posed by a New Guinean friend - Why white people developed so much cargo (material goods) and brought it to New Guinea while the indigenous had so little. Diamond summarized his findings as follows: \\"History followed different courses for different peoples because of differences among peoples environments, not because of biological differences among people themselves.\\"<br /><br />Beginning 13,000 years ago, the author illuminated the conditions or circumstances that may have facilitated growth for some groups and inhibited the same for others. Diamond accepts the out of Africa theory for the dispersion of Homo sapiens to the other continents (for purposes of his treatise Europe and Asia are indivisible), and like the old axiom of real estate, the importance of location, location, location becomes readily apparent. For Diamond, food production is the ultimate cause of variable rates of development for different peoples. He illustrates how the abundance of wild plants subject to domestication and availability of large mammals served as immediate factors to transition from hunter/gatherer bands and tribes to sedentary agriculturally based chiefdoms and states.<br /><br />Diamond lists what he proposes as proximate causes to European dominance:<br /><br />1) Germs - based on close proximity to domesticated animals, immunities were developed infectious strains Europeans would carry to other areas, resulting in the decimation of non-immunized populations. In turn, those groups had few autochthonous diseases that would affect the invaders.<br /><br />2)  Invention of writing- relatively sedentary lifestyles facilitated devotion of more time and effort to the creation of methodologies to control and coordinate commerce. These systems eased transfer of information among society members, and had further implications to the establishment of hierarchical political organization.<br /><br />3) Axial orientation of the different continents - east/ west orientation was conducive to transmigration of people, products, and technologies. Plants best suited to specific climatic conditions were readily transferable; geographic encumbrances were less severe and population isolation was not as significant.<br /><br />4) Establishment of hierarchical organizations - food production instigated the growth of artisan classes focused on technological improvement, leisure classes devoted to functions unrelated to subsistence, organization of massive armies comprised of professional soldiers, and religion, which allowed individual groupings to live together under codification without killing one another.<br /><br />5) Continental Isolation - Landmasses that were separated by geographic or ecological boundaries were under less pressure to develop or adopt new ideas, products or technologies from competing civilizations.<br /><br />Some of the author's theories were not defended as successfully as others. His explanation why Sub-Saharan Africans were unable to identify species (the water buffalo and Zebra are two prime examples) that may have been used in farming and commerce seemed rather weak. Capture, taming and subsequent selective breeding for temperament seems as viable here as he indicates was the case on the Eurasian plains for other species. Similarly, he does not offer a convincing argument regarding the American Indian's failure to domesticate the Bison, although the inference seems to be the lack of cultivatable plant life was certainly a factor.<br /><br />Overall, Diamond provides a compelling theory of the differences in development rates among different peoples, linking a wide set of factors that are not generally considered in parallel in the historical record. For anyone with even peripheral interest in the evolution of different societies, this is an enthralling book.water buffalo and Zebra are two prime examples) that may have been used in farming and commerce seemed rather weak. Capture, taming and subsequent selective breeding for temperament seems as viable here as he indicates was the case on the Eurasian plains for other species. Similarly, he does not offer a convincing argument regarding the American Indian's failure to domesticate the Bison, although the inference seems to be the lack of cultivatable plant life was certainly a factor.    Overall, Diamond provides a compelling theory of the differences in development rates among different peoples, linking a wide set of factors that are not generally considered in parallel in the historical record. For anyone with even peripheral interest in the evolution of different societies, this is an enthralling book.	2001-10-03
US	45192057	R2W0UU9Q63X4GT	0553212788	604725626	The Prince (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	What's morality  got to do with it?	Decades have passed since I originally read Machiavelli's entreaty for a government course. \\"Discourses\\" was also assigned and it became, GPA - be damned - the first of two (to date) impositions of the reader's bill of rights. My lack of constitution has festered ever since yet not to the threshold I have any present intention to implement corrective action. However, after recently having heard the term \\"Machiavellian\\" applied to everyone from Bill Gates to Colin Powell, Daimler/Chrysler management to PBS fund drives, I decided it was high time to revisit at least this less imposing contribution from the seminal political strategist.<br /><br />Turns out in addition to that I do remember, Niccolo Machiavelli was also a man who in today's enlightened environment, should be considered a raging sexist. In chapter XXV he states:<br /><br /> \\"I judge, however that it is better to be impetuous than restrained, because fortune is a woman, and it is necessary to beat her and hit her in order to subdue her. And we see that she lets herself be more easily defeated by these than by those who behave more coldly, and thus, as a woman, always befriends the young, because they are less restrained, more ferocious, and command her more audaciously.\\"<br /><br />What's your opinion, Hillary?<br /><br />The copy I have is a recent translation with introduction, annotations and absolutely indispensable notes by Paul Sonnino. Mr. Sonnino guides the reader who may not be familiar with Machiavelli's historical references along a course that bring the dissertation to life. As Mr. Sonnino points out, THE PRINCE served a dual purpose, at once a didactical manifestation of what the writer, based on empirical evidence from a plethora of regencies, interpreted as the most efficient strategies to acquire and maintain the throne, yet most urgently, it was a the authors attempt elucidate the ineffaceable value he presented to the Medici regime. In no manner should it be construed an incitement to mayhem or a sardonic joke. It is an expression of desperation, beseeching a powerful authority to restore one's position and grace.<br /><br />If there is a true \\"Machiavellian\\" ethic that is attributable to today's democratic nexus, it is least grounded in parsimony, cruelty and faithlessness but rather dependent on expedient reaction to evolving conditions. Historians will continue to debate the author's historical importance and position as it applies to contemporary political thought. To an extent, if literally construed, he may have been the originator of the think tank paradigm, convivial with whoever was willing to pay the fare, adaptive to the audience of the day.<br /><br /> In my view, there is no doubt he was the precursor of one modus operandi  - the suggested response to corporate outplacement.  Summarily dismissed without severance, golden parachute or the existence of a alternative market where he could offer his service as a limited resource, he arrived at the logical conclusion an attempt to ingratiate himself with Medici was the best course of action. Unfortunately, it was to little avail. But, if your occupational proclivities lean toward business concerns typically highlighted in any of the financial magazines, THE PRINCE remains an essential read.an expression of desperation, beseeching a powerful authority to restore one's position and grace.    If there is a true \\"Machiavellian\\" ethic that is attributable to today's democratic nexus, it is least grounded in parsimony, cruelty and faithlessness but rather dependent on expedient reaction to evolving conditions. Historians will continue to debate the author's historical importance and position as it applies to contemporary political thought. To an extent, if literally construed, he may have been the originator of the think tank paradigm, convivial with whoever was willing to pay the fare, adaptive to the audience of the day.     In my view, there is no doubt he was the precursor of one modus operandi  - the suggested response to corporate outplacement.  Summarily dismissed without severance, golden parachute or the existence of a alternative market where he could offer his service as a limited resource, he arrived at the logical conclusion an attempt to ingratiate himself with Medici was the best course of action. Unfortunately, it was to little avail. But, if your occupational proclivities lean toward business concerns typically highlighted in any of the financial magazines, THE PRINCE remains an essential read.	2001-09-17
US	45192057	R2FHJNDWGOJQQ0	0060922583	161060786	The Holographic Universe	Books	3	19	34	N	N	I don't want to abandon my comfort zones	I read Michael Talbot's book over six months ago. As a general practice I defer writing a review until I am confident my opinion has stabilized. Typically that occurs by the time I reach the final page. This time I was all over the map and in reality (I guess) I still can't state with assurance how valid I found his speculations. Yet, I also cannot overlook the subtle adaptations in perceptiveness I have experienced over that period.<br /><br />Mr. Talbot's text is a quasi-credulous compendium of New Age philosophy and conventional scientific investigation, a Vulcan mind meld of Carlos Castaneda and Stephen Hawking. I just might be too left-brained to acquiesce to his exhortations even though past experience has indicated my cognitive distributive ratio lies closer to evenly balanced. One salient distinction I recognize is I am not nearly as unsettled by my incapability to find explanations for all that occurs in what I believe to be the tangible observable world.  Immanuel Kant depicted a noumenal world inexplicable to or by the corporeal being. Talbot is a \\"demi-Aristotelian\\" of implicated essences that while they can be abstracted most of us have lost the power to distinguish them.  He is careful to remain within theistic dogma as he never directly challenges a spiritual imperative.  The holographic model of vision infers an undefined, omnipotent presence(s) at the impetus of all phenomena; any differences are attributable to how our cognition unfolds.<br /><br />I will grant under the premises of this theory, most of the knowledge I have acquired over the years, and nearly all I have retained does serve as interfering influences to objective acceptance of all of his postulations regarding the holographic paradigm.  The first two chapters of Mr. Talbot's book appear completely supportable by conventional scientific principles. Thereafter, he progressively moves from speculative to the metaphysical to the numinous and protean spirituality, by the time he reached his concluding sections my mind had turned to stone. Although out of body/ near death experience is foreign to me, I have no doubt personal encounters would result in an entirely different outlook. Likewise, stigmata, telekinesis and the plausibility of multiple parallel universes are all intriguing, but Mr. Talbot simply did not present explanations I found to be anymore valid than those we currently find questionable. It was his discussion of synchronicities, those coincidences that are so unusual and so meaningful they could hardly be attributed to chance alone that compelled me to try to soften my brain's rigidity.  For inexplicable reasons, two subjects in the book made very strong impressions upon me although neither area was of significant length or major importance: the physical properties of neutrino subatomic particles that seem to morph to correspond to the physicists interpretations of them, and the minds' ability to create what we see while not necessarily generating an accurate reproduction of what we think we are observing.<br /><br />As I sat down to submit this review for at least the fourth time, I happened upon a copy of a popular science magazine where the two lead stories were concerned with the very same subjects.  Quite possibly, enhanced awareness of newly or recently discovered information would typically result in heightened awareness, yet the confluence of events does infer reevaluation with reduced incredulity.<br /><br />As  Talbot states \\"science already accepts what is probable about very important matters if those matters fall into the category of \\"fashionable things to believe\\" but not if they fall into the category of \\"unfashionable things to believe.\\" My categorical dismissal just might be recalcitrance to change. Nothing is lost by reading the book. You may end up seeing things that were always there.ctions my mind had turned to stone. Although out of body/ near death experience is foreign to me, I have no doubt personal encounters would result in an entirely different outlook. Likewise, stigmata, telekinesis and the plausibility of multiple parallel universes are all intriguing, but Mr. Talbot simply did not present explanations I found to be anymore valid than those we currently find questionable. It was his discussion of synchronicities, those coincidences that are so unusual and so meaningful they could hardly be attributed to chance alone that compelled me to try to soften my brain's rigidity.  For inexplicable reasons, two subjects in the book made very strong impressions upon me although neither area was of significant length or major importance: the physical properties of neutrino subatomic particles that seem to morph to correspond to the physicists interpretations of them, and the minds' ability to create what we see while not necessarily generating an accurate reproduction of what we think we are observing.    As I sat down to submit this review for at least the fourth time, I happened upon a copy of a popular science magazine where the two lead stories were concerned with the very same subjects.  Quite possibly, enhanced awareness of newly or recently discovered information would typically result in heightened awareness, yet the confluence of events does infer reevaluation with reduced incredulity.    As  Talbot states \\"science already accepts what is probable about very important matters if those matters fall into the category of \\"fashionable things to believe\\" but not if they fall into the category of \\"unfashionable things to believe.\\" My categorical dismissal just might be recalcitrance to change. Nothing is lost by reading the book. You may end up seeing things that were always there.	2001-09-12
US	45192057	R2O81CBMV8S8G2	061810450X	150294181	The Wind Done Gone: A Novel	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Alice in Mitchellland	When piqued, I think for most of us a mordant letter to the editor is cathartic enough. Alice Randall went looking for a publisher. She has subsequently endured accusations of afrocentrism, revisionism, and historical inaccuracy, charges nearly as misconceived as initial public reaction to the 1930s radio broadcast of \\"War of the Worlds.\\" No matter how you splice it, whether the DNA came from Saint Thomas of Monticello or his less reverential brother, some `founding father' knew Sally Hemmings in A biblical Way.<br /><br />Margaret Mitchell is credited with assiduous investigation in relation to the antebellum south and Civil War. Why she chose to exclude any references to the undeniable record - and let's refer to it in proper context - of institutionalized RAPE of the subjugated Negro by the \\"honorable gentlemen\\" of Dixie, is presently subject to conjecture. Ms. Mitchell's classic was silent on most of the clearly multitudinous acts of inhumanity endemic to the system of chattel slavery. The romanticized south with which she was so enamored was no more in touch with the slave's reality than a Manhattan Project era physicist could accurately explain a neutrino. Blind acceptance of her narrow view is tantamount to cultural ignorance. Yet, in spite of her presumptive bias, GONE WITH THE WIND is an impressive work of fiction. For many, it is a enthralling story suffused with historical significance, that sprang from the fertile imagination of a genteel southern belle; a story now recognized as the copyrighted intellectual property of the Mitchell's Trust.  History, to the evident disappointment of some commentators, is not copyrightable. That is the reason the trustee' case had any legal merit.<br /><br />THE WIND DONE GONE is a parody only in the most liberal of interpretations. In many respects, Ms. Randall's motivations were honorable as her disenchantment with the earlier book is clearly understandable. She decided to challenge entrenched myths of the Old South, through reticulation of her vision and an anachronistic, hagiographical classic. What we discover is for many readers interdependency is the incubator of tangentially justifiable contempt.  While the main character, Cynara/Cinnamon is the salient autonomous presentation, dilucidation of her personality, as well as comprehension of the motivational forces for nearly every other character associated with the plantation Tata (Tara), demands familiarity with the earlier book. Cynara was unsympathetic characterization, emotionally conflicted, lacking in vitality and appeared obsessed by an irrational (under the circumstances) competition with her half-sister, Other (Scarlett), for love and acceptance. Paradoxically, she was the only character approaching three-dimensional portrayal. Ms. Randall could not avoid utilization of existent characters in her quest to articulate another fictionalized point of view, but in so doing she ventures close to the borders of infringement.<br /><br /> It would be preferable to evaluate TWDG only on the basis of independent literary merit rather than the contentious territory of historical accuracy. The book is a narrative influenced by the legacy of slavery rather than an attested narrative of an emancipated slave.  The desultory passages, grammatical errors, periodic absence of syntax and slave-based argot made navigation of the story a bit more challenging but I saw each as the author's license to infuse literary devices consistent with what one might expect in a journal or diary composed by a marginally educated ex- slave. If you think about the litigation, the name games seem self -explanatory.<br /><br /> Like it or not, Margaret Mitchell did not write an attested history textbook. This retort from Alice Randall is a notable but flawed effort to convey a vision of a separate reality occupying the same space and time.ion of her vision and an anachronistic, hagiographical classic. What we discover is for many readers interdependency is the incubator of tangentially justifiable contempt.  While the main character, Cynara/Cinnamon is the salient autonomous presentation, dilucidation of her personality, as well as comprehension of the motivational forces for nearly every other character associated with the plantation Tata (Tara), demands familiarity with the earlier book. Cynara was unsympathetic characterization, emotionally conflicted, lacking in vitality and appeared obsessed by an irrational (under the circumstances) competition with her half-sister, Other (Scarlett), for love and acceptance. Paradoxically, she was the only character approaching three-dimensional portrayal. Ms. Randall could not avoid utilization of existent characters in her quest to articulate another fictionalized point of view, but in so doing she ventures close to the borders of infringement.     It would be preferable to evaluate TWDG only on the basis of independent literary merit rather than the contentious territory of historical accuracy. The book is a narrative influenced by the legacy of slavery rather than an attested narrative of an emancipated slave.  The desultory passages, grammatical errors, periodic absence of syntax and slave-based argot made navigation of the story a bit more challenging but I saw each as the author's license to infuse literary devices consistent with what one might expect in a journal or diary composed by a marginally educated ex- slave. If you think about the litigation, the name games seem self -explanatory.     Like it or not, Margaret Mitchell did not write an attested history textbook. This retort from Alice Randall is a notable but flawed effort to convey a vision of a separate reality occupying the same space and time.	2001-09-12
US	45192057	RNZBEU07D89UW	0452269652	522305574	Jazz	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Kinda Blue	Only over the last few years have I attained the level of security where I can freely admit certain authors, Toni Morrison and James Joyce are two that immediately leap to mind, intimidate me. Some of Joyce's work seems to be inside jokes, as though he was curious to flush out brave souls with the self-assuredness to declare his prose undecipherable. Ms. Morrison's books I approach with equal proportions of dread and anticipation. If I fail to understand the first time through I always feel like the fault lies with me, my inexcusable dearth of perception. JAZZ is no exception.<br /><br />It is as enigmatic a novel as I have ever encountered, resolute in challenge while eerily familiar where the author incorporates her signature seamless transitions between eras, past, present, future; or she infuses surrealistic imagery, unsettlingly alien by nature of a conclusion that is subject to divergent interpretations based on the reader's philosophical bent. The prose is probably Morrison's least ethereal, yet I would be reluctant to suggest this book to anyone unacquainted with her body of work. Yes, with the rhythmic progression, lyrical tonality, and soloist interludes, it has all of the pacing and sensuality of a jazz composition, I just cannot decide if it is improv or fusion.<br /><br />For over half of the text, I was carried forward as though I was sitting in a mid-sized venue listening to Weather Report turn up the heat with a lively rendition of `Birdland,' when Zawinul notices Coltrane in the audience and calls him up to sit in. The setting became an intimate lambent lighted smoke filled room as John dominates the stage with a visceral solo of `My Favorite Things,' a great tune without question but out of place at this time and location.<br /><br />The star of the story is the human condition in all of its' glory and pain. Morrison explores all of the many factors that collide and congeal to become the persona(s). Through her characters she speaks of love, friendship and family; she expresses views of race and culture; she illustrates the many facets of expectation, disappointment, and resignation. We are offered a trenchant view of the vagaries of economic determinism and sociopolitical influence as they pertain to the choices people are so often obligated to follow. Set in Harlem in the mid-twenties, Joe and Violet Trace are the primary corporeal characters, a married couple that by virtue of circumstance have imperceptibly lapsed into patterns that compel each of them to separate existence. A mysterious unnamed, unseen omnipresence serves as narrator, unveiling a tale that begins shortly after Joe murders his teenaged paramour; and Violet, perpetually lost in combat with self-imposed demons, in a fit of rage (and retribution) has attempted to mutilate the corpse. Over the course of the narrative, each major character is viewed from a wealth of perspectives including their own, including the implementation of retro-cognition. The stylization results in the introduction of several tangential characterizations, a few of which seem only to have been included to facilitate the expression of a specific idea or thought, and they tend to obfuscate the story's flow.<br /><br />Ms. Morrison writes with undeniable beauty typified by her word choice and phrasing. Those attributes alone justify the effort to understand the subtleties of her novels. The greatest weakness I found in this offering was she attempted to cover too many issues beyond the core storyline. The book is an intricate tale encumbered by extraneous diversions. As might be expected with any musical form, JAZZ is not for everyone.resses views of race and culture; she illustrates the many facets of expectation, disappointment, and resignation. We are offered a trenchant view of the vagaries of economic determinism and sociopolitical influence as they pertain to the choices people are so often obligated to follow. Set in Harlem in the mid-twenties, Joe and Violet Trace are the primary corporeal characters, a married couple that by virtue of circumstance have imperceptibly lapsed into patterns that compel each of them to separate existence. A mysterious unnamed, unseen omnipresence serves as narrator, unveiling a tale that begins shortly after Joe murders his teenaged paramour; and Violet, perpetually lost in combat with self-imposed demons, in a fit of rage (and retribution) has attempted to mutilate the corpse. Over the course of the narrative, each major character is viewed from a wealth of perspectives including their own, including the implementation of retro-cognition. The stylization results in the introduction of several tangential characterizations, a few of which seem only to have been included to facilitate the expression of a specific idea or thought, and they tend to obfuscate the story's flow.    Ms. Morrison writes with undeniable beauty typified by her word choice and phrasing. Those attributes alone justify the effort to understand the subtleties of her novels. The greatest weakness I found in this offering was she attempted to cover too many issues beyond the core storyline. The book is an intricate tale encumbered by extraneous diversions. As might be expected with any musical form, JAZZ is not for everyone.	2001-09-12
US	45192057	R36X03RZUSH59U	1878424319	991834329	The Four Agreements: A Practical Guide to Personal Freedom (A Toltec Wisdom Book)	Books	2	124	212	N	N	Isn't writing this book an assumption?	Voters take your mark (mouse), set, object.  Warning, I'm afraid I sense uncontrollable episodes of spasmodic mixed metaphors to follow.  Without lapsing into a discussion of the morality of conquest and colonialism, if the Aztecs truly adhered to this philosophy it's a wonder Hernan Cortes met with any resistance whatsoever in Mexico.  Now I remember why I avoid the self-help section like leprae bacillus was imbedded in the cover of each volume.  In order to spare others exposure to the contagion, here are the four agreements:<br /><br />1) Be impeccable with your word;<br />2) Don't take anything personally;<br />3) Don't make assumptions;<br />4) Always do your best.<br /><br />How might any rational being question with the validity of these rather benign objectives? I would surmise most have heard them in some form or fashion from wiser elder mentors since the beginnings of time. Yet, as elucidated by Don Miguel Ruiz, the simplistic text has more un-detonated land mines than an eastern European war zone. In essence, Toltec wisdom, which is fundamentally identical to Yaqui wisdom as expounded by Don Juan Matus in the Castaneda series, has threads of commonality with most spiritually based belief systems known to man, dating back to homo.Erectus. In this easy-to-read little volume, Don Miguel offers clear analogies to Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, and at one point appears to veer off into a flight of pantheistic fancy. New Age might be inclusive, but this is way over the top.<br /><br />The internal contradictions I noticed here reside with the Castaneda books as well. It took years to recognize them in those books when I was too consumed with becoming a sorcerer or warrior of the Yaqui tradition to notice. I may have been young or naïve; young and naïve; or young, naïve and unwilling to acknowledge the complexities of human interaction. In this case the inconsistencies are easier to recognize without the metaphor, allegory and mysticism (or peyote) that permeates Castaneda's works.<br /><br /> Don Miguel's calm and controlled pedagogy is solipsism. He explains how each of us has undergone a process of domestication, where the inculcated lessons result in value and belief systems that preclude independent thought and autonomy. We construct a set of negative agreements we employ to arrive at negative self-assessments, self-abnegation and self-victimization. If man sprang as a physically mature being from the head of some entity like Athena from Zeus, Ruiz's objections might make sense, as it is we do have to learn how to become productive members of a culture or society.  Toltec wisdom infers aversion to acceptance of responsibility and accountability for one's actions; a narcissistic outlook where any proscribed behavior may be excused as the attempt to do one's best, as is clearly evident in the following excerpt from the book:<br /><br />\\"The first three agreements will only work if you do your best.  Don't expect that you will always be able to be impeccable with your word.  Your routine habits are too strong and firmly rooted in your mind.  But you can do your best. Don't expect that you will never take anything personally; just do your best. Don't expect that you will never make another assumption, but you can certainly do your best.\\"<br /><br />Two-thirds of the book is devoted to clarification and expansion of each of the four agreements, with contradiction and repetitious passages leading the way. The final third is devoted to explanation of the techniques to elimination of our existing personal agreements, implementation of the three phases to mastery of Toltec philosophy (awareness, transformation, intent), and how to arrive at a new dream of the world.  He concludes with a couple of prayers for freedom and love.<br /><br />The wisdom here is sacrosanct. Write down the agreements and attempt to incorporate them into your daily routine if you wish. But, you don't need this book as a guideline.ates Castaneda's works.<br /><br /> Don Miguel's calm and controlled pedagogy is solipsism. He explains how each of us has undergone a process of domestication, where the inculcated lessons result in value and belief systems that preclude independent thought and autonomy. We construct a set of negative agreements we employ to arrive at negative self-assessments, self-abnegation and self-victimization. If man sprang as a physically mature being from the head of some entity like Athena from Zeus, Ruiz's objections might make sense, as it is we do have to learn how to become productive members of a culture or society.  Toltec wisdom infers aversion to acceptance of responsibility and accountability for one's actions; a narcissistic outlook where any proscribed behavior may be excused as the attempt to do one's best, as is clearly evident in the following excerpt from the book:<br /><br />\\"The first three agreements will only work if you do your best.  Don't expect that you will always be able to be impeccable with your word.  Your routine habits are too strong and firmly rooted in your mind.  But you can do your best. Don't expect that you will never take anything personally; just do your best. Don't expect that you will never make another assumption, but you can certainly do your best.\\"<br /><br />Two-thirds of the book is devoted to clarification and expansion of each of the four agreements, with contradiction and repetitious passages leading the way. The final third is devoted to explanation of the techniques to elimination of our existing personal agreements, implementation of the three phases to mastery of Toltec philosophy (awareness, transformation, intent), and how to arrive at a new dream of the world.  He concludes with a couple of prayers for freedom and love.<br /><br />The wisdom here is sacrosanct. Write down the agreements and attempt to incorporate them into your daily routine if you wish. But, you don't need this book as a guideline.	2001-09-10
US	45192057	R37BHFSJC4GWR6	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	4	8	12	N	N	As usual, America leads the world in shock	Trust the message and not the messenger. Before I cracked the cover, I was curious to discover what motivated Barbara Ehrenreich to undertake this investigation. My initial reaction was to see if I could ascertain the location of the black hole from whence she emerged. Where I live it does not require extraordinary powers of observation or extensive research to determine on average during daylight hours the sky will appear to be blue, and within that atmosphere there exists an underclass living at or below generally accepted poverty standards. Although I still don't know her point of origination, as I got deeper into the book, spurious methodology aside, it became evident her motivations were pure, and for me that was even more depressing. She works from a Marxist model where goods in excess of an individual's needs must be transferred to a central authority which then redistributes the goods to individuals with deficits, a governmental form that directly conflicts with prevailing attitudes.<br /><br />In each of her adventures - I never reached the point where it was possible to forget her near destitution was pretense - she established a set of ground rules affording the most advantageous conditions to success...and she still failed. She is an extremely educated woman; the intrinsic benefits of education will not be sublimated by saying it will be so. She is aware of the value of deferred gratification, she is acquainted with fundamental budgetary principles, she has inculcated experiences that will invariably facilitate reasoned decision-making. Public transportation is not an optional consideration many of the working poor.<br /><br />For all that it mattered, she could have leased a spanking brand SUV if gasoline was to be her only transportation consideration. Seeing a police cruiser brings about a different level of stress when you are riding around on fraying steel belted retreads in a deteriorating uninspected, unregistered, uninsured, undependable relic. She sought housing with the inestimable comfort of knowing she had the first and last month's rent. I wasn't particularly concerned with her choice to forego roommates, since her limited time frames in any location would only serve exacerbate another's difficulties when she packed up her notebook and she decided to move on. In any event, shared expenses does not radically change the predicament, such arrangements merely reflect another condition of subsistence conditions. The larger issue was her choice to abstain from integration with her test environment or interact with her coworkers on a meaningful level. She does, however, harbor a perplexing definition of homelessness. By my standards, living out of one's car parked next to your place of employment is a sufficient condition.<br /><br />In fact, Ms. Ehrenreich's ideological convictions tend to obscure the more compelling story. Virtually absent from her story are the very people she sets out to illuminate. A \\"doctrine of fairness\\" in relation to socioeconomic viability has a jingoistic ring but it fails to account for the gated community mentality that lead to \\"a contract with America.\\" Sentencing to the oubliette is not invisibility; the movement to eliminate programs targeted to provide assistance to the expansive segments of the population hovering around the poverty level was not based on economic necessity or ethical considerations.<br /><br />If her book serves to raise awareness for a segment of the voting public who may not have been cognizant of the contingencies of reduced social service programs, it has significant value, in spite of the methodology of the messenger.g with the inestimable comfort of knowing she had the first and last month's rent. I wasn't particularly concerned with her choice to forego roommates, since her limited time frames in any location would only serve exacerbate another's difficulties when she packed up her notebook and she decided to move on. In any event, shared expenses does not radically change the predicament, such arrangements merely reflect another condition of subsistence conditions. The larger issue was her choice to abstain from integration with her test environment or interact with her coworkers on a meaningful level. She does, however, harbor a perplexing definition of homelessness. By my standards, living out of one's car parked next to your place of employment is a sufficient condition.    In fact, Ms. Ehrenreich's ideological convictions tend to obscure the more compelling story. Virtually absent from her story are the very people she sets out to illuminate. A \\"doctrine of fairness\\" in relation to socioeconomic viability has a jingoistic ring but it fails to account for the gated community mentality that lead to \\"a contract with America.\\" Sentencing to the oubliette is not invisibility; the movement to eliminate programs targeted to provide assistance to the expansive segments of the population hovering around the poverty level was not based on economic necessity or ethical considerations.    If her book serves to raise awareness for a segment of the voting public who may not have been cognizant of the contingencies of reduced social service programs, it has significant value, in spite of the methodology of the messenger.	2001-09-07
US	45192057	R2VHQH06MGHMEC	0609605372	153659789	If 6 Were 9: A "Militant"  Mystery	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Craven Images	\\"To be a very good journalist is very hard. To be a mediocre one is easy. All I ever wanted was to be a mediocre journalist...[I] am neither proud nor ashamed of my mediocrity. \\"<br /><br />So states Clay Robinette, the protagonist of Jake Lamar's latest novel. Unlike BOURGEIOS BLUES, I do not think this putative mystery is at all autobiographical but I did get the feeling a great deal of Jake could be found in the character of Clay. Try as he might, Mr. Lamar has far too much talent to sink into the bathyal depths of commonality; a number of passages reflect true brilliance in this otherwise pedestrian offering.  Mr. Lamar seems to be a writer in search of a genre, and as with his \\"contemporary black folk\\" story, CLOSE TO THE BONE, I hope mystery/thriller is merely another pit stop on the raceway to non-fiction.<br /><br />I'm somewhat of a cynic myself so Mr. Lamar's style is generally appealing. In this story of a sometimes philandering, \\"victimized,\\" college professor, who formerly was a latent philandering, run-of-the-mill, \\"victimized\\" New York Times journalist, everyone has an ulterior motive that periodically intersects their hidden agendas. These characters afford the author ample opportunity to express his cultural and political views. Unmasking the murderer of a manipulative, nubile white coed is the mystery, but that part of the story serves only as backdrop to a stream of sardonic social commentary.  Trust no one, believe even fewer, and never, under any circumstance, accept what you observe as valid.<br /><br />If Mr. Lamar had opted to write a book on the condition of race and relationship in America, sans the translucent vestments of a mystery, I would have rated it at the highest level. As it is, his problematic spavined development of that component cannot be overlooked. There are a number of gaffes no mystery novelist, regardless of seasoning, should have allowed to pass.<br />Comparatively speaking, fiction is an insulated category. Criticism is generally directed at the storyline as opposed to the writer's personal leanings. I tend to believe Mr. Lamar has the fortitude to withstand the heat of provocative non-fiction.<br /><br />I, for one, am hoping he decides to step out from behind the shield.oryline as opposed to the writer's personal leanings. I tend to believe Mr. Lamar has the fortitude to withstand the heat of provocative non-fiction.    I, for one, am hoping he decides to step out from behind the shield.	2001-09-05
US	45192057	R39U96HRIUCXFH	0374237204	542232649	Prime Time Blues: African Americans on Network Television	Books	3	0	3	N	N	I anticipated a leisurely read...	But, it was not to be. So now I am resigned to another turgid review. To paraphrase a line from 'Law and Order,' this guy is so far left, he has to turn to his right to see Thurgood Marshall. And, that succinctly, is as close as I could come to figuring out where he really stood on anything. Making a case that African Americans are subject to superficial representation on television is not an overwhelming challenge, the problem is Donald Bogle found fault with nearly every program that has ever graced the airwaves. He evinced all of the attributes of elitists who propound an ideology Thomas Sowell defines as the 'anointed vision,' where the only consistency you can expect to find is inconsistency. Mr. Bogle appointed himself arbiter of approved imagery for African Americans on network television, and did not grade on the curve. Implicit in his dissertation was the entitlement to conveniently reverse his views where newly offered postulations contradicted earlier pronouncements.<br /><br />Mr. Bogle's decade-by-decade coverage, commencing with the one shot Ethel Waters Show in 1939 and extending to second-tier network programming of the current era, was initially comprehensive but took on a turn towards superficiality in the later years. For the purposes of this book, the rare appearance of black performers during television's early years was a mixed blessing. The author was afforded the opportunity to provide incisive commentary for nearly every show where a black performer was either host or cast member, including a paragraph or two about performers who appeared only as guests on weekly series' or variety shows. By the 1980s, the growth in the number of African Americans appearing on network shows forced the author to adjust his focus; he began to concentrate on actors or shows - including made-for-television movies - he considered significant, providing only to tangential reference to others.<br /><br />Mr. Bogle's attempts at candor often descended to cantankerousness. A number of programs and actors, in some cases without clear justification beyond the author's personal leanings, were unmercifully criticized. While disdain for 'Amos n Andy' is largely universal, transporting those images to a specific skit from 'In Living Color' in the 1990s, or arriving at the conclusion that 'Kingfish' was the role model for Martin Lawrence, or 'Beulah' established the paradigm for 'mammy roles' to infinity, was reductive, and a clear disregard for factoring since research of his premise necessarily conflates the associated time spans. He neglects to consider, the shows he cites as a baseline have been out of the public eye for 35 to 40 years. His assessment of some actors like James Earl Jones whom he described as 'A fake old windbag' was simply mean-spirited. At one point, he expressed mild surprise to discover Nell Carter is an intelligent person, a clear implication some of his anxiety may reside in personal inability to distinguish between an actor playing a part and the actor as an individual.<br /><br />I do not presume objectivity was ever a consideration for Mr. Bogle, but he absolutely slavers for some actresses (Ethel Waters, Cicely Tyson, Madge Sinclair, Rosalind Cash), is subtly critical of physically larger actresses, and far too often fails to modulate his views by the tuning fork of qualitative performance. At one point, he notes the early criticism of Bill Cosby's acting in his 1960s series, 'I SPY,' directly stating he found the critical views to be accurate. A few paragraphs later, Mr. Bogle mentioned Mr. Cosby received an Emmy for his role that very season, but ignores the obvious question of largesse versus genuine merit. At different junctures, he is highly critical of Jackee' for infusing so-called black mannerisms on '227'; later he applauds Phylicia Rashad for adding so-called black mannerisms to her characterization of Claire Huxtable, on 'Cosby'; and still later he is effusive towards Madge Sinclair for the absence of such mannerisms on 'Trapper John, M.D.' Time after time, the 'Achilles heel' of the historian, interpretation of an earlier time through a prism of refracted modern views, overwhelms his text. Mr. Bogle expressed pointed disdain for network management and program sponsors who conceded to the pressures and sensitivities of an undeniably prejudiced southern market, yet he dismissed or obviated the realities that a black demographic was not sufficient at the time to justify continuation of 'controversial' programs. He infers television is autocatalytic, that steadfast endorsement of a show would have dissipated entrenched attitudes with the broadcast of more episodes forcing a reversal in the practice of affiliate preemption, but he offers little evidence, then or at any time since, where his position is substantiated by actual results.<br /><br />Mr. Bogle has an idealistic view of television and a level of expectation that it is unlikely to be met even in the segmented market of the present era, where cable has modified what is deemed to be acceptable market share. His book is worthy of investigation for a chronology of actors, actresses and shows. With regard to sociological impact, he seems to be merely the obverse of that he labels unconscionable, while reality is somewhere in between.on 'Trapper John, M.D.' Time after time, the 'Achilles heel' of the historian, interpretation of an earlier time through a prism of refracted modern views, overwhelms his text. Mr. Bogle expressed pointed disdain for network management and program sponsors who conceded to the pressures and sensitivities of an undeniably prejudiced southern market, yet he dismissed or obviated the realities that a black demographic was not sufficient at the time to justify continuation of 'controversial' programs. He infers television is autocatalytic, that steadfast endorsement of a show would have dissipated entrenched attitudes with the broadcast of more episodes forcing a reversal in the practice of affiliate preemption, but he offers little evidence, then or at any time since, where his position is substantiated by actual results.    Mr. Bogle has an idealistic view of television and a level of expectation that it is unlikely to be met even in the segmented market of the present era, where cable has modified what is deemed to be acceptable market share. His book is worthy of investigation for a chronology of actors, actresses and shows. With regard to sociological impact, he seems to be merely the obverse of that he labels unconscionable, while reality is somewhere in between.	2001-09-04
US	45192057	R1HMRROSRNCT6B	0813512778	628757300	Black Athena: The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical Civilization (The Fabrication of Ancient Greece 1785-1985, Volume 1)	Books	4	13	23	N	N	I want the truth	First of all, I have to call attention to Amazon.com's consolidation of reviews for volumes I and II. Not that I have an insatiable desire to write two reviews on concatenated works, I rather doubt all sharing an opinion here has read both books, but more about that later.  In reality, I was forced to choose between two titles I really liked - the other being \\"The classicists' version of playing the dozens,\\" - while customarily I have to overload my diminished synapses to come up with one.<br /><br />Presently, I sit in the critical path of an impending avalanche of multi-disciplinary correlatives, corroboratives, contradictories, and the just plain controversials related to the histories of Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, Africa of Antiquity and putative African Agency, from anthropology to quantum mechanics to zoology. I do not claim to be the brightest flame on the candelabra but if the citizenry was assembled for execution with the least intelligent first on call I'm pretty confident I would have to endure a reasonable degree of terror before that last cigarette. The point is, and I assure you there is one, I came to realize I possess neither the requisite intrinsic nor acquired expertise to cogently argue the credibility of Bernal's analyses in most of the disciplines he addressed. And, if I concur with his allegations, neither can I blithely assume veracity in the multitudes of supplementary tomes I have on hand. I therefore also have some reservations in regard to previous reviews here where the reviewer leaves the impression he or she has total comprehension of this expansive two-volume set. As an example, there is a vast difference between understanding the process of linguistic comparison as he delineates it as opposed to full and accurate comprehension of what the comparison denotes. Comparative etymologies of eponyms and toponyms were interesting and compelling, but I'll still send this month's mortgage payment to the bank instead of making book on Bernal.<br /><br />On the positive (or negative?) side whilst the author demonstrated scholarly acumen and is unquestionably the consummate investigator, he admits fails to be an \\"expert\\" in all of the pertinent areas as well. In this phenomenal world, it is unlikely such an individual exists. His thesis is most valuable as treatise that compels re-evaluation of extant fact by specialists in a vast range of disciplines. At over 1300 pages, I found BLACK ATHENA to be best defined as a polemic of competitive plausibilities as opposed to a treatise of ostensibly incontrovertible \\"proofs.\\" The author poses, and subsequently answers, the question:<br /><br /> \\"How should an informed layperson distinguish between a constructive outside radical innovator and a crank? ...[U]ltimately a lay jury has to rely on its own subjective or aesthetic judgement.\\"<br /><br />At times, he tended to forage for evidence outside perimeters most broadminded readers have been conditioned to accept as scientific orthodoxy (whatever that means as \\"scientific\\" applies to the  social sciences), but his methodology never appeared unsound, only unwelcome to the guardians of the academic status quo, the adherents to what he defined as the \\"Aryan\\" and \\"Extreme Aryan\\" models of ancient history.  Professor Bernal champions the restoration of fundamental historical principles, where myth is not accepted as history but is a consideration to the historical record. He proposes reconsideration of the accounts provided by ancient historians like Diodoros and Herodotus, who in particular was not only a chronicler but also lived during a part of the period under scrutiny, buttressed by corroborative archeological discoveries since the advent of the Aryan models.  Bernal notes until the mid-nineteenth century, when sociopolitical considerations took precedence over objectivity, an \\"ancient\\" model of Greek and Egyptian history had general acceptance, where based on a plethora of evidence, Egypt in particular and theLevantine in general, was credited with significant contribution to Greek culture and civilization. This \\"ancient \\" model was not overturned due to verifiable mendacity, but rather as function of subjective European interests. Bernal did not infer the Aryan models where wholly misrepresentative nor was the ancient model without foibles; simply stated the latter model was closer to the truth than what now passes as the history of antiquity.<br /><br />The breadth of information in the first two volumes of what was projected to be a four- volume set is near to overwhelming, and unfortunately I found the author's erudite style a bit tedious even for a peer directed resource. Volume I is appreciably friendlier to the lay reader. Yet, any writer who finds a way to work antidisestablishmentarianism into a non-theological text couldn't be all bad. The title, by the way, is a bit of misnomer. Bernal is convinced Egypt of antiquity had a significant black admixture, but that aspect is only peripherally addressed. \\"Egyptian Athena\\" may have concisely stated his premise, but the provocative nature is lost.  For readers who presently may not accept Black African primacy in ancient Egypt, Diop's THE AFRICAN ORIGIN OF CIVILIZATION and CIVILIZATION OR BARBARISM are excellent antecedents to this series of books.ed with significant contribution to Greek culture and civilization. This \\"ancient \\" model was not overturned due to verifiable mendacity, but rather as function of subjective European interests. Bernal did not infer the Aryan models where wholly misrepresentative nor was the ancient model without foibles; simply stated the latter model was closer to the truth than what now passes as the history of antiquity.    The breadth of information in the first two volumes of what was projected to be a four- volume set is near to overwhelming, and unfortunately I found the author's erudite style a bit tedious even for a peer directed resource. Volume I is appreciably friendlier to the lay reader. Yet, any writer who finds a way to work antidisestablishmentarianism into a non-theological text couldn't be all bad. The title, by the way, is a bit of misnomer. Bernal is convinced Egypt of antiquity had a significant black admixture, but that aspect is only peripherally addressed. \\"Egyptian Athena\\" may have concisely stated his premise, but the provocative nature is lost.  For readers who presently may not accept Black African primacy in ancient Egypt, Diop's THE AFRICAN ORIGIN OF CIVILIZATION and CIVILIZATION OR BARBARISM are excellent antecedents to this series of books.	2001-09-04
US	45192057	R3I4KLSC9HSKTS	1859847730	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	23	35	N	N	My pain is greater than yours, because it's mine.	Stratification and polarization are the rule of the day. Contentiousness is not new to historiography, however the proviso only interpretations offered by members of a specific ethnic group will be objectively considered within the subject group is a modern amendment. Partisan interests further require any account conform to, or enhance, positions advocated by the  majority of group members or its' most influential sectors. Within those constraints, the validity of any alternative reflections becomes inconsequential, if it fails to incorporate conventional standards.  Mr. Finkelstein is clearly Jewish, but he has been castigated as anti-Semitic for an act of commission - the unpardonable sin -  the temerity to contend the Nazi Holocaust may not be the most singularly abominable act of inhumanity in the annals of history.<br /><br />For his detractors, his mien is reprehensible, imbued with relativism, where he offers evidence by factual manipulation and embellishment an influential segment of Zionism and other Jewish interests have collaborated to insure this horrific epoch never fades in the public consciousness. First, he refuses to individuate Jews by pointing out disabled Germans and Gypsies were incarcerated and exterminated in the same camps.  He offers compelling evidence that methods tantalizingly near to extortion have been employed over recent years to force reparations from countries and financial concerns purported to have colluded with Nazi Germany in subjugation, extermination and financial emasculation of displaced Jews.  He demonstrates how the holocaust was raised to nonpareil, singular status after Israel's predominance in the Six Day War of 1967.<br /><br />According to the author, while a credible figure for actual holocaust survivors has been obscured, even those individuals who are unquestionably deserving have been relegated to secondary status behind opportunistic, self-interested advocacy groups. The author's presumptive blasphemy extends to the question whether Jewish experience under the Nazi regime was of greater import than: the history of black enslavement where some accounts indicate over 20 million may have perished over the duration of the Eastern and Western systems; genocide perpetrated on Native Americans in the U.S. where a credible figure for loss of life remains in abeyance but is generally believed to exceed 6 million; the euphemistic Serbian 'ethnic cleansing' of Kosovars; the Vietnamese Conflict; and most poignantly, ongoing Israeli oppression of Palestinians.<br /><br />Finkelstein is very persuasive but ventures into incongruence by his juxtaposition of Jewish claims (as he outlines them) with other ethnic groups in pursuit of reparations from oppressive forces. It seems illogical to partially discount Jewish claims on the premise the number of survivors is indeterminable and continual pressures brought to bear against external concerns such as Swiss financial institutions will only serve to enhance to coffers of opportunistic Jewish organizations, followed by  his advocacy of payment to another ethnic group where the elapsed time presents greater challenges. His exhortations approach pandering and are tantamount to perpetuation of a precedent he has endeavored to condemn. He vilifies Jewish groups for demands on the Swiss, then disingenuously maligns the same groups for placing political expediency above similar extortive efforts in relation to the U.S. or Britain.<br /><br />It is not the abominable history of the Holocaust or its residual impact on Jewry Mr. Finkelstein denies. He attempts to establish a historical context where variable accounts of man's inhumanity to fellow man are of comparative relevance. His treatise is controversial and speculative but it also a courageous step, completely undeserving of cursory dismissal.ether Jewish experience under the Nazi regime was of greater import than: the history of black enslavement where some accounts indicate over 20 million may have perished over the duration of the Eastern and Western systems; genocide perpetrated on Native Americans in the U.S. where a credible figure for loss of life remains in abeyance but is generally believed to exceed 6 million; the euphemistic Serbian 'ethnic cleansing' of Kosovars; the Vietnamese Conflict; and most poignantly, ongoing Israeli oppression of Palestinians.    Finkelstein is very persuasive but ventures into incongruence by his juxtaposition of Jewish claims (as he outlines them) with other ethnic groups in pursuit of reparations from oppressive forces. It seems illogical to partially discount Jewish claims on the premise the number of survivors is indeterminable and continual pressures brought to bear against external concerns such as Swiss financial institutions will only serve to enhance to coffers of opportunistic Jewish organizations, followed by  his advocacy of payment to another ethnic group where the elapsed time presents greater challenges. His exhortations approach pandering and are tantamount to perpetuation of a precedent he has endeavored to condemn. He vilifies Jewish groups for demands on the Swiss, then disingenuously maligns the same groups for placing political expediency above similar extortive efforts in relation to the U.S. or Britain.    It is not the abominable history of the Holocaust or its residual impact on Jewry Mr. Finkelstein denies. He attempts to establish a historical context where variable accounts of man's inhumanity to fellow man are of comparative relevance. His treatise is controversial and speculative but it also a courageous step, completely undeserving of cursory dismissal.	2001-08-22
US	45192057	R2NQT5H8VVF3U2	0446673706	356722115	Indian Killer	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A fresh arrangement of a tragically familiar opus	At a critical juncture of the story, John Smith, the Native American/Indian/Indigenous main character, is accosted by a group of vigilantes. They refer to him by a bigot's pejorative, only in this instance, the term \\"prairie\\" is affixed as a modifier. With that passage, Sherman Alexie slapped me back to consciousness.<br /><br />Black or red, or as the author prefers, brown, marginalization in this land observes few ethnic conventions. For the franchised, racial distinctions among the subjugated are irrelevant. With no loss of coherence and only minor adaptation (Jack Wilson wouldn't claim to be black), Alexie could have written the same tale with a black protagonist. John Smith is Ralph Ellison's \\"everyman,\\" and comparatively speaking, INVISIBLE MAN concluded on a positive note. INDIAN KILLER is a wake-up call to this nation, that yet again will fade away without any hint of amplification.<br /><br />Many readers may find his acerbic prose discomfiting. Unlike his other books, this is a novel of confrontation and challenge, largely devoid of palliative applications of subtle inference or sardonic wit. It is a story of zero-sum alternatives, each of the characters is either victim or victimizer. I was left with the impression, \\"fairness\\" is only achievable as a extrinsic manifestation of supernatural intervention.<br />That, is a depressing point of view.	2001-08-21
US	45192057	R3UMKASDL6V3NX	157322510X	805201753	Municipal bondage: one man's anxiety-producing adventures in	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Additional evidence humor is relative	MUNICIPAL BONDAGE is suffused with wit, but merely sprinkled with humor. Alford seems to be in search of an Andy Rooneynesque mien, but in most of his contrivances, he makes light of people rather than the absurdity of the situation.<br /><br />One's inability to acquire certification as a dog groomer, cement mason, cosmetologist or for that matter, dentist (which he did not attempt), has little intrinsic humor. The author seems oblivious to the fact nearly all occupations have an associated degree of skill. If his attempts to milk humor in these predicaments had been primarily self-deprecating, that's one thing but more often than not, he devined for after-the-fact thinly veiled, ridicule, which was patently unfunny. Now, if Clifford the curmudgeonly cocker spaniel had bitten him as he deserved during  the groomer's exam, that would have been funny. This book is not Lucy and Ethel in the candy factory.<br /><br />I don't mean to imply the book was without its moments. Illuminating the idiosyncratics one might encounter in everyday life such as his adventures with Manhattan bed and breakfast proprietors or fraudulent psychic advisers, was funny, though not necessarily, of the 'rolling in the aisles' variety.<br /><br />Similarly, his lists of \\"what if's\\" ranged from mild amusement to banality. Many of the references have not held up well over time. Only the over the hill like me, or someone who has spent way too much time watching classic television is likely to \\"get\\" the humor in a dog who becomes pope requesting an audience with June Lockhart.<br /><br />Essentially, the ratio of chuckles to grimaces was not sufficient to rate this book any higher.	2001-08-20
US	45192057	R3VCWD7GB7FA4M	046509838X	545172516	Not Out Of Africa: How ""Afrocentrism"" Became An Excuse To Teach Myth As History (New Republic Book)	Books	4	17	29	N	N	Circle the chariots, the Afrocentrics are coming. . .	Or, is it, \\"some of my best friends are Egyptian.\\" The truth is I rather enjoyed the book. There is an unintended humorous side not often found in history tomes, one that I attribute to the fact the book is aimed at a preconditioned lay audience. In fact, if the discourse was to be decided on approachability alone, Mary Lefkowitz would get my vote.  Now, if I understand correctly, and this is one of those rare occasions where I am sure I do, Professor Leftowitz has two main objectives; to refute the fallacies she believes Afrocentrism encourages and to inspire the modestly initiated masses to pursue further study of Ancient Egypt and Ancient Greece.  In view of the implications of objective number one, her idea of a historiographically correct reading list is indicated by asterisk in the bibliography of this work.<br /><br />In decades to follow, we may find physical science holds the answers to vexatious partisanship in historiography.  Until that revelation comes to fruition, subjectivity and/or relativism will continue to rule the roost.  Contrary to exhortations from the classicist orthodoxy, the author begrudgingly admits she is as susceptible to tendentiousness as any other academic.  Her bias is apparent in this book although, objectivity should not be construed as a necessary condition to validate the rectitude of any premise.  Nevertheless, in the endeavor to explain unattested events that occurred 5000 years ago, *ex ante* conclusions tend to be unavoidable. Ms. Lefkowitz implores all Afrocentric authors should mind their \\"p's\\" (possibility, plausibility, probability, provable) and \\"r's\\" (reification, relativism, revisionism) whilst she is clearly reluctant to apply similar constraints to evaluation of the heuristic claims of mainstream traditionalists, where elementary and secondary school students are still taught of the wondrous feats of one Christopher Columbus, with an \\"oh, by the the way\\" shout out to earlier explorers, or The Crusades, an epoch presented as though some adamant Jehovah's Witnesses armed with pamphlets suffused *en masse.*<br /><br />The author has devoted more than thirty years to the study of Greek and Roman civilizations but only due to the aloofness of a misguided student does she become cognizant of the effervescing danger represented by the pedagogy of Afrocentrism, like the unsubstantiated claims of Socrates' and Cleopatra's ethnicity. Apparently, Lefkowitz arrived at the conclusion the calumnious works of Afrocentric authors, who evidently are any writers or historians who offer an alternative view to eurocentrism, can no longer be lightly tossed aside. These books should be thrown with extreme force (derivative: Dorothy Parker). She is unwavering in rejection of any and all allegations race is a subtext to her burgeoning enmity. I can suspend belief long enough to accept her word BUT, a couple of thoughts did occur to me. First, if she genuinely desired to circumvent racist accusations, the title of the book would have been \\"Not out of Egypt\\" as that terminology closely approximates the focus of her text but indubitably would also fail to pull the plastic out of wallets, and; notwithstanding her rather weak explanation, it is rather perplexing for 30 years she remained oblivious to discussions clearly pertinent to her field of expertise. A number of the publications she now sets out to debunk have been in print for decades. Until a respected *white* peer submitted an undeniably scholarly tome (Bernal's BLACK ATHENA) thereby rendering academia's standard practice of null recognition untenable, the good professor seems to have been quite comfortable in the idyllic surroundings of near-ivy New England. It should be noted, while this book addressed a wide range of ostensibly Afrocentric works, including BLACK ATHENA, Lefkowitz is also co-editor of BLACK ATHENA REVISITED, where Bernal's postulations are addressed at length.<br /><br />The book that has truly brought chafe to the Lefkowitz toga is STOLEN LEGACY, G.M.M. James, a work originally published in the 1950's, and now a very serviceable target as the quintessential \\"straw man.\\"  Amongst other claims, based on the tenets of Freemasonry, James posits during antiquity there existed an education system, \\"The Egyptian Mystery System\\" that the Greeks usurped.  It is an argument Lefkowitz expeditiously, and convincingly, deconstructs. By association with the James book, direct or otherwise, Lefkowitz is able to discount the commendable efforts of other scholars where accepted research methodologies have been observed and verisimilitude is arguably equal to the historians currently recognized as authorities in the pertinent areas.  Two books by Cheikh Anta Diop, a Senegalese scholar, are prime examples. His first effort, originally published in french in 1954 and completely autonomous to \\"Legacy,\\" is ignored as the author instead strategically elects to focus attention on a later book that unfortunately does refer to James' ethnically uplifting but academically flawed issue.<br /><br />In the effort to expose Afrocentric extremism, Lefkowitz tends to denigrate African and African American studies, disciplines she admits to find of bonafide academic justification. She also (quietly) admits there exists a high probability of significant black admixture to Egyptian civilization; that Egypt and the Levant probably contributed to Greek culture and civilization, most notably in medicine, mathematics and astronomy. Her contention is Egypt was not a major contributor to the formulation of Greek philosophic thought.<br /><br />I do not exclude the possibility her assessment is most probable. She should not exclude the possibility not all claims she deems Afrocentric are probably myth..M. James, a work originally published in the 1950's, and now a very serviceable target as the quintessential \\"straw man.\\"  Amongst other claims, based on the tenets of Freemasonry, James posits during antiquity there existed an education system, \\"The Egyptian Mystery System\\" that the Greeks usurped.  It is an argument Lefkowitz expeditiously, and convincingly, deconstructs. By association with the James book, direct or otherwise, Lefkowitz is able to discount the commendable efforts of other scholars where accepted research methodologies have been observed and verisimilitude is arguably equal to the historians currently recognized as authorities in the pertinent areas.  Two books by Cheikh Anta Diop, a Senegalese scholar, are prime examples. His first effort, originally published in french in 1954 and completely autonomous to \\"Legacy,\\" is ignored as the author instead strategically elects to focus attention on a later book that unfortunately does refer to James' ethnically uplifting but academically flawed issue.    In the effort to expose Afrocentric extremism, Lefkowitz tends to denigrate African and African American studies, disciplines she admits to find of bonafide academic justification. She also (quietly) admits there exists a high probability of significant black admixture to Egyptian civilization; that Egypt and the Levant probably contributed to Greek culture and civilization, most notably in medicine, mathematics and astronomy. Her contention is Egypt was not a major contributor to the formulation of Greek philosophic thought.    I do not exclude the possibility her assessment is most probable. She should not exclude the possibility not all claims she deems Afrocentric are probably myth.	2001-08-18
US	45192057	R3IN48AP8UJW93	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Hold yourself Hostage	Do yourself a tremendous favor. If you already read the editorial reviews, sit the book aside, read something else and let the comments fade in your memory. Skip the dust jacket synopsis, it tells you more than, ultimately, you would have preferred to know. If you are a fan of Robert Crais' books, trust your instincts that he normally crafts a pretty good thriller and just pick the book. If this author is new to you, take a chance. It reads so quickly you have little time at risk. Generally speaking, an author does not reach mass market best seller status in this crowded genre without a significant amount of writing skill.    As with DEMOLITION ANGEL's Carol Starkey, the protagonist is a troubled soul seeking an escape route from job related stresses. Starkey wallowed in self-pity predicated on personal loss. Jeff Talley, the lead character in this book has a despondency based on prior failures to protect the security of others, although the standards he established may have been impossible to achieve. A confluence of circumstances forces him to back into the quagmire, under conditions in the worst of his nightmares, he could not have imagined.    The book is captivating, I couldn't put it down. Crais methodically reveals layer after layer of contingencies, pulling you deeper into the story, your concerns for the characters escalating page after page. Some of the characterizations could have been stronger, however, in this web of intrigue there are even antagonists who evoke sympathetic response.  Only will you be disappointed if you knew too much, much too soon.	2001-08-17
US	45192057	R2LYPLUOKD43PW	1556520727	332248505	The African Origin of Civilization: Myth or Reality	Books	5	15	23	N	N	Herodotus: The unsuspecting progenitor of Afrocentrism	From one perspective, it is revealing commentary on the intrinsic condescension of the conventional classicists that it was only after the interest fomented by Martin Bernal's BLACK ATHENA that this consolidation and translation of two books written by Cheikh Anta Diop warranted critical peer review. Mr. Diop has been referred to as the man who gave voice to Afrocentrism, although in some academic circles the statement has a aura of negativity.<br /><br />For the &#34;traditionalists,&#34; attempts by scholars of any persuasion to identify and expound Black African agency in the evolution of Near Eastern, Mediterranean and most pertinently where this book is concerned, Egyptian culture is unsound reification. In conjunction with a later work, CIVILIZATION OR BARBARISM, Diop delineates persuasive, compelling evidence of black African primacy and the incontrovertible reality of significant black admixture to Egyptian genesis. The traditionalists, or as I prefer &#34;the pseudo-traditionalists,&#34; counterclaim his premises are based on tendentious interpretation of data, dependency on nonscientific principles and over-utilization of myth or conjecture. The paradox is, it is Mr. Diop who is the true traditionalist, as his postulations are grounded on archeological, anthropological, historiographical and linguistic evidence that has been available to any investigator, irrespective of subjectivity, for decades and in many instances, centuries. What the author advocates is a restoration of what Bernal calls the &#34;ancient model&#34;  of Egyptian history and concomitant influences to Greece of antiquity; the reassessment of history expounded by sources such as Herodotus, who in the 5th century B.C.E., was eminently positioned to offer a credible perspective on the ethnic composition of Egyptian and Greek civilizations.<br /><br />There is a sibilance in the present era where classicists demand adherence to scientific methodology, generally whenever contradictory hypotheses are offered by scholars who refuse to subsume their findings to the dictates of Euro-centric *besserwissen*. Myth, speculation and extrapolation are viable supplements to putatively scientific evidence so long as they do not call into question insular accepted values. The indelible bias of 18th and 19th century historians is typically discounted by apologists who proclaim the &#34;facts&#34; discovered by the purveyors of the &#34;Aryan model&#34;' are not invalidated by sociopolitical philosophy. Thus, is would follow that the same rationalization has to apply as well to present era scholars who have had the appurtenance of Afrocentric applied in a pejorative tone to their works.<br /><br />This is an essential book for the panoramic view of ancient history.cholars who refuse to subsume their findings to the dictates of Euro-centric *besserwissen*. Myth, speculation and extrapolation are viable supplements to putatively scientific evidence so long as they do not call into question insular accepted values. The indelible bias of 18th and 19th century historians is typically discounted by apologists who proclaim the &#34;facts&#34; discovered by the purveyors of the &#34;Aryan model&#34;' are not invalidated by sociopolitical philosophy. Thus, is would follow that the same rationalization has to apply as well to present era scholars who have had the appurtenance of Afrocentric applied in a pejorative tone to their works.  This is an essential book for the panoramic view of ancient history.	2001-08-09
US	45192057	R11IIEXPPC8NJK	076740596X	45994429	Looking At Philosophy: The Unbearable Heaviness of Philosophy Made Lighter	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Your first flying lesson isn't in the Concorde either...	If anyone out there has an extra membership card for the inscrutable, pedantic philosopher's club, please send it to Donald Palmer because his rights and privileges have been rescinded. LOOKING AT PHILOSOPHY might not survive the syllabi cut at most of the usually suspected citadels of erudition but for the layperson seeking a basic understanding of diverse cosmologies, I doubt an equally informative and entertaining introductory text can be identified.<br /><br />In often sardonic tone, supplemented by lucid illustrations of complex ideas, Mr. Palmer presents a rudimentary overview of western philosophy from the Pre-Socratic era to the late 20th century. While the reader will not be positioned to debate the relative merits of Hegel vis a vis Schopenhauer, or Derrida vis a vis reason, at least the next time the names are encountered he or she will have a generalized understanding of referent concepts, a feel for chronological placement, and an un-intimidating resource for clarification.<br /><br />But, alas, Mr. Palmer is not a complete traitor to the tradition. He has selectively excluded some influentials based on individually defined criteria, and women are virtually absent, notwithstanding his politically correct explanation in the preface.  One that stands out for me is Ayn Rand and Objectivism. Whether he views her theories as valid, or arguably a convoluted economic system, within the context of this book, her impact over the last half of the 20th century warranted at least a mention. She makes as much sense as Hume, or the deconstructionists.	2001-07-30
US	45192057	R31AW9EWMGEJ4H	0878331573	467804838	Koufax	Books	5	7	7	N	N	This review isn't helpful but I really don't care.	While thinking about what to say in this review I was reminded of some commentary written about Miles Davis where a jazz critic I have long since forgotten observed, &#34;Miles plays for himself. The listener's appreciation is merely an irrelevant by-product.&#34; Under no circumstances do I consider myself to be the literary equivalent of the musician (and artist) that was Miles Davis however the spirit of the quote is a fair assessment of the following review.<br /><br />If Ed Gruver had written a biography of commensurate quality about any other baseball player, at most I would have rated it  four stars. Imposition of the name Koufax, establishes an entirely unique dynamic for me. Throughout my childhood, every member of my family and basically every adult I knew well were Dodger fans, nevermind the fact the team was initially 600, and eventually 3000 miles removed from where I lived. I must have been enveloped by a steel industry induced rust belt fog for my pre-teen, adolescent and young adult years because up to the point of Jackie Robinson's death the basis for our unwavering support never occurred to me. No one ever said a thing, it was just the way it was. My family would gather around and listen to Bob Prince's call of Pirates' games just so we could find out how the Dodgers were doing. If the Dodger's were on NBC's game of the week, it became an event comparable to today's Superbowl parties.<br /><br />As a lefthanded kid who fancied himself a future major league pitcher and a Dodger fan to boot, Sandy Koufax was the embodiment of perfection. I'm forced to smile in consideration of my now obvious hypocrisy when I think about the number of times I admonished my children regarding adulation of sports figures, chiding them to remember the athlete should be admired for accomplishments on the field but heroes should be sought from other disciplines. This coming from a man who a few years ago came across an old elementary school autograph book where some erstwhile friend had written, &#34;to the boy who thinks he's Sandy Koufax but is not and never will be,&#34; thereby terminating our friendship on the spot. Not only did I consciously attempt to emulate the Koufax delivery, but while recently watching some tapes of my son, I realized when I taught him to pitch, his delivery became a right-handed version of the Koufax form.<br /><br />My first job was hawking newspapers in the stands of Forbes Field during Pirates games. I found out that way I could get in for free. In 1965, I was fortunate enough to be at a doubleheader where the Dodgers starting pitchers were Koufax and Drysdale. Koufax gave up first inning homers to Bob Bailey and Donn Clendenon, then he shut down the Pirates, went all nine (naturally) and the Dodgers won 5-2. I don't have the slightest clue what happened with Drysdale in the second game. Without question, baseball is the american sport with the most time-tested adages and overwhelming conventional wisdom. The book says a fastball cannot rise and in the late innings, hitters will catch up with the pitcher who depends on the fastball. The book didn't factor in Sandy Koufax. He even affected my perceptions of historical significance. Two people I promised myself I would never forget were Michael Collins and Bob Hendley. The former did not get to walk on the moon, and the latter only gave up one hit,  one walk and no earned runs, but found himself on the short end of the Koufax perfect game against the Cubs in 1965.<br /><br />Mr. Gruver transported me back to an era of pleasant memories. It is hard to get younger fans in the present era to comprehend just how dominating a player was Sandy Koufax. Comparisons between eras are always difficult however rating Randy Johnson, Martinez, Clemons or Maddox against the man I consider to be the greatest seems so inadequate, particularly when you consider the physical challenges he had to overcome the last two seasons he played every time he picked up the ball. Theguidelines have changed but this is a man who completed as many games in those two seasons as today's 5 man rotation pitchers start.<br /><br />I only wish the authors' style and format had been as inspiring as his subject matter. The storyline of Koufax's life takes place around the backdrop of a pitch by pitch account of the 7th game of the 1965 World Series. Mr. Gruver seems to suffer from short term memory loss as time after time he repeats the same information, occasionally in successive paragraphs. Anyone who knows anything about Koufax knows his legendary reclusiveness would inhibit any author writing an unauthorized biography, so the absence of input from Mr. Koufax was not surprising. Mr. Gruver, however, fails to adequately compensate.<br /><br />Nevertheless, KOUFAX is still a book any baseball fan will enjoy. It's been said there will never be another Ruth, Brown, Laver, Ali, Nicklaus, Jordan, only time will tell. But in the case of Sandy Koufax...an who completed as many games in those two seasons as today's 5 man rotation pitchers start.  I only wish the authors' style and format had been as inspiring as his subject matter. The storyline of Koufax's life takes place around the backdrop of a pitch by pitch account of the 7th game of the 1965 World Series. Mr. Gruver seems to suffer from short term memory loss as time after time he repeats the same information, occasionally in successive paragraphs. Anyone who knows anything about Koufax knows his legendary reclusiveness would inhibit any author writing an unauthorized biography, so the absence of input from Mr. Koufax was not surprising. Mr. Gruver, however, fails to adequately compensate.  Nevertheless, KOUFAX is still a book any baseball fan will enjoy. It's been said there will never be another Ruth, Brown, Laver, Ali, Nicklaus, Jordan, only time will tell. But in the case of Sandy Koufax...	2001-07-27
US	45192057	R1LD2KCKHD7WXK	0316277010	373145889	The Last Amateurs: Playing for Glory and Honor in Division I College Basketball	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Just forget the symbolism	Within proper context as the chronicle of one season of college basketball in a small, under-publicized, lightly regarded eastern conference of the NCAA's Division I, John Feinstein has written a book I can highly recommend.<br /><br />I'm a basketball fan, from 4th grade traveling teams to the NBA old-timers' games, therefore it was quite likely I would have read and subsequently recommended the book anyway, but I also have to own up to several biases that place me among the least objective:<br /><br />a) I'm an alumnus of one of the seven great schools (really six but we will not go there...today). I've continued to follow the trials and tribulations of the league and it's earlier formulations for years, and believe me, before the internet it was quite a chore. I saw the comprehensive nature as one of the book's strong points; it's a little unfair to criticize the author for covering as many players as he did solely because they are not household names playing in the ACC, Big East, Big Ten, SEC, Big 12, PAC 10 or any other major conference. Yes, focusing on one or two teams may have lessened confusion for some readers but the book is a tribute to a group of schools attempting to honor a principle, not the study of a non-conforming soloist.<br /><br />b) Mr. Feinstein's romanticized view - which I find anachronistic and marginally inaccurate - of what college basketball used to represent and how, ostensibly the schools of this conference still attempt to uphold the high standards of times past, appeals to the purist side; and,<br /><br />c)personally most important, as the parent of a young man who participated in the recruitment ritual the preceding season with a number of the highlighted coaches, it was interesting to compare my impressions with Mr. Feinstein's portrayals. He tends to infer they are somehow more honorable than the Thompsons (Senior, I have to assume Mr. Feinstein would find Junior just as honorable at Princeton), Smiths (Tubby and Dean), or Calhouns of the world. The point is the O'Hanlon's, Devoe's, Davises or Willard's are trying to achieve the major objective - to win - within the constraints of the system at their level. Ralph Willard didn't misplace his academic religion when he graduated from Holy Cross anymore than he found it when he landed there after his fall from grace at Pitt. If any of the coaching incumbents in the Patriot League thought they could get a \\"Thompsonesque\\" seven footer to accept an offer and get him pass the admissions office censors, academic standards would be a distant memory.<br /><br />Several reviewers have commented on the author's rather specious justification for choosing Patriot rather than Ivy, noting the latter is a true non-athletic scholarship entity. While that is the case, in consideration of the Mr. Feinstein's \\"David versus Goliath\\" premise, for a large compliment of the concerned student-athletes as well as the general student populations, these schools, although nationally renown academic institutions are in large measure Ivy rejection \\"safety schools.\\" In fact, Mr. Feinstein chose to ignore the primary point to foster the underdog scenario.<br /><br />For the top players of the Patriot league teams, the dream persists albeit less brilliantly than for the coddled stars of the big time schools. The odds are not in their favor, but the chance of an opportunity in the USBL or Europe is no less than those of the 10 thru 14 slots with the big dogs. It is the D-III player, most particularly the commensurately dedicated player at schools with academic reputations equal or greater than the subject schools who has completely sublimated the dream. For the MIT or Carnegie-Mellon player, the NBA, CBA, USBL or Europe are pages missing from the playbook and for that 'one shining moment' at some televised sub-regional, the improbable chance of a trip to the D-III final four in Salem, Va. will have to do.he O'Hanlon's, Devoe's, Davises or Willard's are trying to achieve the major objective - to win - within the constraints of the system at their level. Ralph Willard didn't misplace his academic religion when he graduated from Holy Cross anymore than he found it when he landed there after his fall from grace at Pitt. If any of the coaching incumbents in the Patriot League thought they could get a \\"Thompsonesque\\" seven footer to accept an offer and get him pass the admissions office censors, academic standards would be a distant memory.    Several reviewers have commented on the author's rather specious justification for choosing Patriot rather than Ivy, noting the latter is a true non-athletic scholarship entity. While that is the case, in consideration of the Mr. Feinstein's \\"David versus Goliath\\" premise, for a large compliment of the concerned student-athletes as well as the general student populations, these schools, although nationally renown academic institutions are in large measure Ivy rejection \\"safety schools.\\" In fact, Mr. Feinstein chose to ignore the primary point to foster the underdog scenario.    For the top players of the Patriot league teams, the dream persists albeit less brilliantly than for the coddled stars of the big time schools. The odds are not in their favor, but the chance of an opportunity in the USBL or Europe is no less than those of the 10 thru 14 slots with the big dogs. It is the D-III player, most particularly the commensurately dedicated player at schools with academic reputations equal or greater than the subject schools who has completely sublimated the dream. For the MIT or Carnegie-Mellon player, the NBA, CBA, USBL or Europe are pages missing from the playbook and for that 'one shining moment' at some televised sub-regional, the improbable chance of a trip to the D-III final four in Salem, Va. will have to do.	2001-07-10
US	45192057	R261OUDYPSJZPN	0671024078	32618872	Mesmerized	Books	3	10	12	N	N	I agree with Robert Ludlum...	as long as you understand this is also the first espionage novel I have read this year. I believe it was Robert Heinlein who said a good writer should require readers to suspend disbelief only once in any story. He was talking about science fiction however the same advice would serve Gayle Lynds regarding espionage. The primary storyline of cellular memory is fine, nothing there is so fantastical as to be beyond plausibility; it is the kevlar that must have encased her heroine's transplanted organ that is so difficult to accept. The desire to craft strong female characters is also above contentiousness (there were instances were the estrogen flow was viscous), but at least maintain some semblance of reality during the process.<br /><br />The lead character, Beth Convey, is a forceful, ambitious associate who harbors partnership aspirations with one of the top law firms in Washington, D.C. when she is stricken by heart failure. After receiving a donor organ from the victim of a motorcycle accident, she immediately begins to experience unsettling dreams, reminiscences and strange cravings. She is assured by her surgeon all of these occurrences are more than likely a reaction to the regimen of pharmaceuticals she is required to take for the rest of her life rather than some esoteric physio-psychological result of her surgery. Over the next year as she becomes consumed with rehabilitation, the dreams do abate, but as the anniversary of her life changing event approaches, they begin to intensify. Beth is overwrought with the need to discover all she can about the donor; hoping against hope enhanced information will enable her to bring closure to her nightmares.<br /><br />Meanwhile, Jeff Hammond, a disgraced former F.B.I. agent currently working as the Russian Affairs expert for the Washington Post is on an unrequited crusade to track down a troika of Russian defectors and a secretariat's ransom of missing funds. He is convinced although the trio may appear assimilated to capitalism, there remains much they withheld from authorities during their debriefings. His adamancy is what lead to his separation from the F.B.I.; for the last nine years he has been in pursuit, to the detriment of all personal and professional relationships.<br /><br />Obviously, the independent quests of Beth and Jeff are destined to intersect, propelling the twosome on a harrowing journey through several states, death defying predicaments and largely unanticipated twists, while they grow increasingly aware of the sexual tension rising between them.<br /><br />The basic premise of MESMERIZED is completing captivating; Ms. Lynds skillfully brings the story to life...as long as you are willing to discount some pertinent anomalies on the critical path, commencing with the logic of a man in his mid-twenties sacrificing all that was previously important based on a hunch where even if he is correct restorative options are not available, followed by the marginally bel!ievable physical competencies attained by Beth, ostensibly attributed to cellular transference. Mental acumen is one thing, and physical dexterity is an entirely separate discussion. Yet personally, the largest leap of faith for me was probably, her postulation an old Ford escort could exceed 100 miles per hour, I don't care if it was traveling downhill, downwind, in a wind tunnel.<br /><br />Irrespective, Ms. Lynds came tantalizingly close to writing a good story, right up to the point she took a sabbatical from espionage and started writing a harlequin romance, in the middle of a segment where national security was of issue. The detour lead to a disjunctive conclusion further diminished by a cavalcade of perfunctory events. As a result, an above-average story with a few flaws became a average tale with glaring glitches.alism, there remains much they withheld from authorities during their debriefings. His adamancy is what lead to his separation from the F.B.I.; for the last nine years he has been in pursuit, to the detriment of all personal and professional relationships.<BR><BR>Obviously, the independent quests of Beth and Jeff are destined to intersect, propelling the twosome on a harrowing journey through several states, death defying predicaments and largely unanticipated twists, while they grow increasingly aware of the sexual tension rising between them.<BR><BR>The basic premise of MESMERIZED is completing captivating; Ms. Lynds skillfully brings the story to life...as long as you are willing to discount some pertinent anomalies on the critical path, commencing with the logic of a man in his mid-twenties sacrificing all that was previously important based on a hunch where even if he is correct restorative options are not available, followed by the marginally bel!ievable physical competencies attained by Beth, ostensibly attributed to cellular transference. Mental acumen is one thing, and physical dexterity is an entirely separate discussion. Yet personally, the largest leap of faith for me was probably, her postulation an old Ford escort could exceed 100 miles per hour, I don't care if it was traveling downhill, downwind, in a wind tunnel. <BR><BR>Irrespective, Ms. Lynds came tantalizingly close to writing a good story, right up to the point she took a sabbatical from espionage and started writing a harlequin romance, in the middle of a segment where national security was of issue. The detour lead to a disjunctive conclusion further diminished by a cavalcade of perfunctory events. As a result, an above-average story with a few flaws became a average tale with glaring glitches.	2001-07-03
US	45192057	R1SNWX3EQ9Y6NC	0060925949	32503346	The Rage of a Privileged Class: Why Are Middle-Class Blacks Angry? Why Should America Care?	Books	5	25	31	N	N	Why the Black Executives sit together (all two of them)	Since the first term of the Reagan administration, tacit resentment of Affirmative Action initiatives has been replaced by unequivocal vocal opposition lead by white males who feel they are hapless victims of 'reverse discrimination.' While it is ludicrous to have expected the vestigial effects of centuries of institutionalized subjugation and prejudicial practices could be displaced by any combination of legislation, enlightened multicultural ideologies and enhanced educational opportunities in less than one generation, the arguments against continuation of structured programs to advance minority access, most prevalently in employment, housing and education have also inferred a degree of perplexity in the white community as to why so many middle class blacks are dissatisfied.<br /><br />The pseudo-displaced white male is expeditious in dis-affirming any personal connectivity to the legacy of slavery while in the same breath, adamantly professing all blacks are denigrated by the actions of a small percentage who may behave in an antisocial manner, but failing to grasp the inconsistency in the contrasting positions. The *disaffected* white fails to understand why upper class and middle class blacks, ostensibly the socio-economic groups that most benefited from equal opportunity legislation enacted from the mid-fifties forward is discontented.  THE RAGE OF A PRIVILEGED CLASS is an important work in the effort to elucidate a multiplicity of issues black professionals are obliged to confront without sanctuary each and every day. With unrestricted clarity, the author, journalist Ellis Cose delineates exactly why so many relatively successful black professionals still feel a degree of disconnectedness, often in proportions exceeding similar expressions of disenchantment voiced by the so-called black underclass.<br /><br />Though based predominantly on anecdotal examples provided by a limited range of corporate professionals, jurists, academicians and journalists, Mr. Cose clearly indicates why progress in narrowing the racial chasm has been largely superficial.  In case after case, respondents point out the multifaceted stress factors that eventually present themselves to any black American in a presumptively integrated environment.  In the preponderance of occurrences, the respondent was also the sole representation of organizational diversity. For nearly all,  Affirmative Action has served as a double-edged sword, facilitating entry unto the perimeters of previously closed circles of influence but encumbered with the stigma of second class consideration, irrespective of exemplary individual achievement and competency.<br /><br />The incumbent can never rest assured evaluation of one's capability will be based on personal performance nor is there any assurance one will be allowed to perform under the unbiased tenets of a meritocracy. Concerted efforts toward assimilation are no panacea either, typically failing to generate the aspired result while tending to alienate the aspirant from his or her ethnic base, and fostering pejorative expressions of disdain among racial peers.<br /><br />Over centuries, black Americans have manifested an indefatigable optimism in the belief egalitarianism and deontological rectitude would compel the white community to adhere the principles of equality and equitable treatment of all peoples regardless of race or ethnicity only to experience rejection or worse, condescension, at every entreaty. In this poignant but incisive account Mr. Cose refuses to allow his personal subjectivity overwhelm journalistic impartiality. He addresses all of the classic cliches and stereotypes endemic to conservatives and reactionaries...and liberals, who endeavor to reverse whatever minimal advancements have been achieved primarily over the last forty years. It is significant that the majority of current promulgations like the vituperative polemics of \\"scholars\\" such Michael Levin (WHY RACE MATTERS) are categorically refuted although this book was published well before most of them. In his text, Mr. Cose has emphasized the fact that in large part the justifications espoused to support insidious interpretations of racial diversity are not new ideas, discoveries, or materially factual, simply reformulations of venerable trivialities that will not accept a quiet death.<br /><br />I also found it mildly intriguing that 100 years after W.E.B. Dubois submitted his premise the elites of black society had a responsibility to marshal the course of racial advancement, we now find influential political leaders like former Senator Moynihan proselytizing the doctrine as their own, attempting to impose accountability on the black middle class,  but assiduously avoiding any personal population group responsibility for action.ished well before most of them. In his text, Mr. Cose has emphasized the fact that in large part the justifications espoused to support insidious interpretations of racial diversity are not new ideas, discoveries, or materially factual, simply reformulations of venerable trivialities that will not accept a quiet death.    I also found it mildly intriguing that 100 years after W.E.B. Dubois submitted his premise the elites of black society had a responsibility to marshal the course of racial advancement, we now find influential political leaders like former Senator Moynihan proselytizing the doctrine as their own, attempting to impose accountability on the black middle class,  but assiduously avoiding any personal population group responsibility for action.	2001-06-19
US	45192057	RHJTCAKKF1APJ	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	So, why doesn't the N.J turnpike smell better?	Quite a few years ago when McDonald's franchises first began to proliferate across the local landscape my friends and I placed bets on how long it would be until a Burger King appeared in the same block. It was pretty clear to us the latter enterprise did not spend a great deal of money on independent site selection. According to Eric Schlosser, we had no idea of the accuracy of our speculations. His book, FAST FOOD NATION is a prodigious page turner filled with interesting facts about every aspect of the processed food industry, equal to the very best of the supermarket variety mystery/thriller... and in retrospect, the book could be construed as a literal supermarket horror story.<br /><br />Frankly, I have no intention of entertaining any delusions I will not frequent a multiplicity of fast food establishments in the future, but those visits will be informed choices, now encumbered by heightened levels of anxiety and a degree of self-flagellation in recognition of my obvious paucity of convictions. The bottom line is, I am an American conspicuous consumer, the food *does* taste good, and I exist a state of urgency. I know it promotes obesity, I'll add a couple of miles to my walking. Anyway, if Mr. Schlosser's credibility is not in question and I find no reason why it should be, I have a better chance of ingesting tainted beef purchased from my local market than is currently the case with any of the franchises, where our litigious society has obligated they demand enhanced quality control from their suppliers; levels of vigilance the pertinent federal agencies that are supposed to protect my health interests fail to duplicate.<br /><br />Mr. Schlosser's expose` is an enthralling account of the fast food industry, its' marketing; the influence it wields on American consumerism; how it is a prototypical model of capitalistic excursion; the work-force exploitation of teens, seniors and the undereducated; advertising designed to mesmerize and captivate society's youth; de jure and de facto subjugation of franchisees; and the industry's negative effects on the American landscape. In many respects, the book is an update of Sinclair's THE JUNGLE as it pertains to the meatpacking industry but Mr. Schlosser expands his analysis to cover agribusiness enterprises, including the chemical plants adjacent to New Jersey's rte 95. The vegans among us may find some solace that their exposure to *e coli* is reduced but I have a hard time believing the business practices of a ConAgra or McCain's and their subsidiaries like Hunt's or Healthy Choice will not impact the meat-free crowd as well.<br /><br />I am not as convinced the industry is, or was, the activating agent in all of the categories he outlines; I view the executive leadership in the industry to be opportunistic in responsiveness to adaptive consumer demands. It seems to me lifestyle changes commencing after World War II spawned the fast food and processed food industries, not vice-versa. Yet, Schlosser does not limit his review to the shores of the United States. The author demonstrates where the tendrils of the leading players snake out to constrict the global market, with the prevailing definition of civilized society now represented by the ability to enjoy a burger, fries and cola while clad in your locally purchased Gap ensemble and Nikes anywhere in the paved world.<br /><br />From his assiduous account of the genesis of McDonald's in California to the surreal experience of Gorbachev as the keynote speaker at a capitalist dog and pony show in Las Vegas, the book never fails to impress, although at times the heavy-handed infusion of Mr. Schlosser's personal liberal environmentalism was unnecessary.<br /><br />However, whether you are meat and potatoes or vegan/vegetarian, this is a book that will have you shaking your head for days to come. Grab a super-sized soda, sit on the couch and have a look.e facto subjugation of franchisees; and the industry's negative effects on the American landscape. In many respects, the book is an update of Sinclair's THE JUNGLE as it pertains to the meatpacking industry but Mr. Schlosser expands his analysis to cover agribusiness enterprises, including the chemical plants adjacent to New Jersey's rte 95. The vegans among us may find some solace that their exposure to *e coli* is reduced but I have a hard time believing the business practices of a ConAgra or McCain's and their subsidiaries like Hunt's or Healthy Choice will not impact the meat-free crowd as well.    I am not as convinced the industry is, or was, the activating agent in all of the categories he outlines; I view the executive leadership in the industry to be opportunistic in responsiveness to adaptive consumer demands. It seems to me lifestyle changes commencing after World War II spawned the fast food and processed food industries, not vice-versa. Yet, Schlosser does not limit his review to the shores of the United States. The author demonstrates where the tendrils of the leading players snake out to constrict the global market, with the prevailing definition of civilized society now represented by the ability to enjoy a burger, fries and cola while clad in your locally purchased Gap ensemble and Nikes anywhere in the paved world.    From his assiduous account of the genesis of McDonald's in California to the surreal experience of Gorbachev as the keynote speaker at a capitalist dog and pony show in Las Vegas, the book never fails to impress, although at times the heavy-handed infusion of Mr. Schlosser's personal liberal environmentalism was unnecessary.    However, whether you are meat and potatoes or vegan/vegetarian, this is a book that will have you shaking your head for days to come. Grab a super-sized soda, sit on the couch and have a look.	2001-06-18
US	45192057	R1GJNG4D688J6G	0316592382	617523773	Fearless Jones (Fearless Jones Novel, No.1)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	(Why)is Paris' (store) burning?	Previously, the only contemporary novelist whose works I picked up without prior qualifying information, even if all that entailed was perusal of the the book jacket, was Walter Mosley. As an example, I just assumed Socrates Fortlow was working on a chain gang because he decided to take an excursion back to Indiana and was arrested. So now, I at least make an effort to determine if the book is fictional; I have yet to be disappointed (and my assessment does include BLUE LIGHT) by any of his books. FEARLESS JONES is another impressive offering.<br /><br />It appears Mr. Mosley cannot escape comparisons to Hammett, Chandler, MacDonald, and in many quarters, Himes and Goines. At this juncture, his immense talent has transcended the noir detective mystery genre; he is a nonpareil storyteller but human nature seems to demand the real value of one commodity can only be defined in terms of a peer product. With the advent of new protagonists Tristan Jones and Paris Minton, Mr. Mosley has affixed the 'early Mosley' to the list.<br /><br />This book has much of the aura and appeal of the Rawlins series; at times I found myself in anticipation of an encounter with Easy or Mouse at the jailhouse; in one of the after hours joints or by  mutual acquaintance with a peripheral character introduced in this story (No, it did not happen). Paris the diminutive, bookwormish shopkeeper serves as the narrator; he and Fearless comprise a new 'buddy' team destined to grace several tales. As this story of the search for a mysterious, manipulative and intimidatingly attractive woman named Elana Love progressed, I sensed many of the characteristics so familiar to Easy and Mouse now engendered in Paris and Fearless, though not necessarily as  mirror images or juxtaposed characters from different novels.<br /><br />Mr. Mosley infuses more wry wit and self-deprecating humor in Paris' characterization than I recall from any person appearing in prior books. Fearless is the dedicated, non-judgmental friend I think we all aspire to know at least once in our lifetimes, hopefully with appreciably less of a propensity to attract lethal entanglements. The duo is perfectly complementary. Where Paris is restrained, marginally non-confident and somewhat self-absorbed, Fearless is volatile, decisive and curiously altruistic.<br /><br />With his trenchant prose, Mr. Mosley injects more social commentary than was evident in the earlier series but he never loses sight of the fact he is spinning a tale rather than espousing a philosophy. It is an astonishingly quick read, with multiple action sequences but regrettably, also a few flaws, some on the penumbra but a couple within the critical path which I will not address since the book is a mystery and the few missteps are not sufficiently consequential to significantly diminish cumulative value. The ending, however, in my opinion is far too compressed. Truncation was unnecessary to set up the next book and at just over 300 pages the addition of another 50-75 so to effectively wrap the package in a more satisfying manner would not have been unwelcome.<br /><br />With that caveat, FEARLESS JONES, is a grand introduction to what I expect to be a great new series from Mr. Mosley.spire to know at least once in our lifetimes, hopefully with appreciably less of a propensity to attract lethal entanglements. The duo is perfectly complementary. Where Paris is restrained, marginally non-confident and somewhat self-absorbed, Fearless is volatile, decisive and curiously altruistic.    With his trenchant prose, Mr. Mosley injects more social commentary than was evident in the earlier series but he never loses sight of the fact he is spinning a tale rather than espousing a philosophy. It is an astonishingly quick read, with multiple action sequences but regrettably, also a few flaws, some on the penumbra but a couple within the critical path which I will not address since the book is a mystery and the few missteps are not sufficiently consequential to significantly diminish cumulative value. The ending, however, in my opinion is far too compressed. Truncation was unnecessary to set up the next book and at just over 300 pages the addition of another 50-75 so to effectively wrap the package in a more satisfying manner would not have been unwelcome.    With that caveat, FEARLESS JONES, is a grand introduction to what I expect to be a great new series from Mr. Mosley.	2001-06-15
US	45192057	R39HN7A976DO6N	0671026011	430524886	The Empty Chair (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Have a seat, Jeffery	One thing I'm sure of, for anyone unacquianted with the Lincoln Rhyme series, THE EMPTY CHAIR is not the place to start. The third entry is clearly the weakest.<br /><br />The criminalist, his protege Amelia Sachs and his care-giver, Thom, are in unfamiliar and uncharted territory of North Carolina in order for Rhyme to undergo experimental treatment for his paralysis when he is beseeched by the local sheriff to lend his expertise to the the search for a teenaged kidnapper/murderer unaffectionately known by locals as 'the insect boy.' During the course of their investigation Rhyme and Sachs find themselves opposing counterweights to the scales of justice as Sachs succumbs to intuitive reaction rather than acceptance of the preponderance of evidence they uncover. But, as any 'Deaverite' would surmise, nothing is as straightforward as it appears and by the time the conclusion is approached, the story has taken all of the customary detours and spurs one has to anticipate with! a Deaver mystery.<br /><br />Unlike the two previous books, here Rhyme displays a diffidence unjustified by the storylines of distracting personal issues or inferred insecurities relating to the 'fish out of water' status. His characterization is flat and uninspired serving to cast a pall over plot fulfillment. As this is merely the third time out, it would be presumptuous to assume all layers of personality for Rhyme and Sachs have been revealed however in this book neither character demonstrates basic consistency with previously exhibited traits. The central decision made by Sachs to stage a jailbreak bares little resemblance to a choice that would be expected from the woman who placed midtown Manhattan in gridlock to secure a crime scene, and Rhyme's response to her actions is far too accepting of her insubordination.<br /><br />Although each successive Rhyme mystery has grown just a bit longer, this one was a conundrum since the story was not terribly engrossing yet seemed to te!rminate much too quickly. The ending was contrived and not in the least convincing. I hope THE EMPTY CHAIR is an aberration rather than the precursor of the future course of the Rhyme series.y. The ending was contrived and not in the least convincing. I hope THE EMPTY CHAIR is an aberration rather than the precursor of the future course of the Rhyme series.	2001-06-12
US	45192057	R169Y00ARQXV97	0738833290	101640868	Swiss Movement	Books	4	5	8	N	N	"Superlative Chronometer"	I cannot recall exactly how SWISS MOVEMENT came to appear on my inexhaustible list of books to be read. My suspicion is I discovered it during perusal of some other (but more astute) reviewer's recommendations after yet another disappointing experience with the stylings of a contemporary Black novelist. Be assured, I have commensurate misgivings with mediocre offerings from writers of all ethnicities who inexplicably manage to get book after book of barely literate drivel into publication, the point here was what precipitous event brought Vaugh A. Carney to my attention.<br /><br />Among the back cover hyperbolic platitudes, John A Williams, who incidentally is another author who never received the level of acclaim warranted by his body of work, proclaims SM is \\"Ellisonesque,\\" well-intentioned praise I find to be a huge boulder no Black author should be obligated, inadvertent or not,  to lug up the mountainside. Carney's novel of a Harvard educated Wall Street attorney who is pointedly reminded on a daily basis that he is Black and out of his assigned element does share some thematic similarities with INVISIBLE MAN but that is where the comparisons end. Mr. Ellison was a great writer; in this first novel Carney demonstrates he is a talented one. Ellison's book is a challenge to read and interpret.<br /><br />Conversely, SM is easily approachable, primarily devoid of the oppressively complex grammatical structure and deeply contemplative metaphors endemic to the earlier work. That is neither denigration of Carney's style nor an inference he assaults the reader's intelligence, he simply does not attempt to cloak his ideas in literary erudition.<br /><br />  At it's core, this is the story of the Black man's perpetual struggle to achieve psychological balance and socioeconomic security in an often openly hostile environment. With a backdrop of jazz, Carney unfurls a story of relationships and the determinism of true love. Franklin D. Moore, the protagonist is on a journey to self-awareness bordering on existentialism that commences at age 14 in 1963 and continues to evolve *after* the book's denouement in the late 1970s. The trials, tribulations and epiphanies he encounters and experiences are equally as relevant to the Black individual of the present as they were in the 70s, 50s, 30s or 1870s. However, unlike the INVISIBLE MAN where the protagonist ends up enlightened but inextricably encumbered, Franklin Moore is cognizant of the encumbrances yet optimistically enlightened.<br /><br />All in all, a book not to be overlooked.rdering on existentialism that commences at age 14 in 1963 and continues to evolve *after* the book's denouement in the late 1970s. The trials, tribulations and epiphanies he encounters and experiences are equally as relevant to the Black individual of the present as they were in the 70s, 50s, 30s or 1870s. However, unlike the INVISIBLE MAN where the protagonist ends up enlightened but inextricably encumbered, Franklin Moore is cognizant of the encumbrances yet optimistically enlightened.    All in all, a book not to be overlooked.	2001-06-11
US	45192057	RZZV64XVA74L9	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	"phading phast"	At completion, I was unimpressed with THE BLUE NOWHERE so I commenced by own 'completely scientific statistically significant survey'  of four technologically challenged baby boomer readers of the novel.  With 100% response, to a woman (all four participants were female) they found the book to be fantastic.  Each respondent particularized commentary on the aspects of the story relating to the dissolution of personal privacy and security  reflected by the minimally safe pathways of the internet. And, that appears to be the line of demarcation between rave and repudiate for this Deaver effort. Personally, I found it to be a reasonably intriguing mystery but a dreadfully trite thriller.<br /><br />TBN is little more than a variation on a pretty common theme, 'it takes a thief to catch a thief,' only in this instance the opponents are PC wizards, ironically having a shared history. As should be expected with any Deaver novel, there are more plot twists than a car dealership lease agreement but the story fails to reach the threshold of thrilling. Additionally, for the individual who has a reasonable degree of systems-related competency, Mr. Deaver overlooked or just plain disregarded some inconsistencies and blatant inaccuracies that detract from the story serving to diminish one's willingness to accept plausibility.<br /><br />Obviously, it's only one opinion but each book since THE COFFIN DANCER has seemed to be just a bit lower in quality. THE BLUE NOWHERE is a decent story, it just isn't as scintillating as Mr. Deaver's better books.	2001-06-11
US	45192057	R1MTZFBJLRGI4P	0688082742	448089741	Four Arguments for the Elimination of Television	Books	3	15	20	N	N	A long argument for the elimination of capitalism	One of the contingencies associated with eclectic reading preferences is from time to time a book will be discovered where upon completion you find yourself in a state of ambiguity. In view of the unequivocal title, indecisiveness and hypocrisy on the part of the author were the least of my expectations when I started this book. Therefore, by the conclusion when he made it perfectly clear he had no intention of severing his personal dependence on television unless and until - by acclamation - all of western society elected to dump broadcast technology, I found Mr. Mander to be somewhat disingenuous.<br /><br />Technological advances over the last 25 years also indicate he was no clairvoyant however, the valid issues he addressed when he began his treatise in 1974 remain as pertinent today.  The difficulty was and remains, his primary objections reside with the fabric of western culture where television is simply one swatch of material. The first two arguments are really indictments of the oligarchies of capitalism and the cabals of commercial advertising. Television is attacked as the most effective medium for dissemination of ideology and suppression of independent thought.<br /><br />Mr. Mander was an advocate of \\"New Age\\" philosophy before it had an easily identifiable moniker. It came as no surprise in later chapters when he referred to the works of Castaneda since many of his initial postulations inferred a desire to *regress* (my opinion, not his) to a less frenetic lifestyle, where mankind is intimately linked to the environment and completely dependent on inherent understanding of nature. Mr. Mander had a multitude of windmills with which to joust, television was simply the most predominant.<br /><br />Argument One was entitled 'The Mediation of Experience'. Essentially, his point was society has become tangentially connected to innate intelligence. We can no longer trust our senses or intuitiveness to distinguish fact from fiction. Reality is arbitrarily defined and television exacerbates the problem.<br /><br />Agrument Two was 'The Colonization of Experience,' where an extremely select complement of influential actors have the power and latitude to reformulate thought processes to create a society of automatons who will respond as directed. By its' ubiquity, television is the perfect vehicle to disseminate a narrow viewpoint to the widest possible audience.<br /><br />With Argument Three, 'The Effects of Television on the Human Being,' Mr. Mander finally began to focus on what I originally thought to be his basic premise. He offered empirical and anecdotal evidence of the negative neuro-physiological effects of extended exposure to television, including physical illnesses. This is one area where the book has been buttressed by subsequent studies over the ensuing years.<br /><br />The last Argument, 'The Inherent Biases of Television,' on the other hand, is the one most ravaged by technological change. Mr. Mander tended to view television as a static institution. Developments like HDTV, stereo broadcasting, other technological advances and the the customary pattern of cost reductions for more sophisticated equipment were beyond his prescience. I would be curious to find out his present take on developments like the internet, or for that matter, VHS recording. He was cognizant of the existence of cable systems but did not appear to attribute much value or potential.<br /><br />In his closing, he admitted elimination of television was unlikely but the major failing of the dissertation is he had no confidence any adaptation save total elimination could be achieved or that any such efforts would be of measurable benefit. As a result, the reader is abandoned with only his cautionary admonishments but no suggested alternative course of action, assuming one is in agreement with his basic premise.cerbates the problem.    Agrument Two was 'The Colonization of Experience,' where an extremely select complement of influential actors have the power and latitude to reformulate thought processes to create a society of automatons who will respond as directed. By its' ubiquity, television is the perfect vehicle to disseminate a narrow viewpoint to the widest possible audience.    With Argument Three, 'The Effects of Television on the Human Being,' Mr. Mander finally began to focus on what I originally thought to be his basic premise. He offered empirical and anecdotal evidence of the negative neuro-physiological effects of extended exposure to television, including physical illnesses. This is one area where the book has been buttressed by subsequent studies over the ensuing years.    The last Argument, 'The Inherent Biases of Television,' on the other hand, is the one most ravaged by technological change. Mr. Mander tended to view television as a static institution. Developments like HDTV, stereo broadcasting, other technological advances and the the customary pattern of cost reductions for more sophisticated equipment were beyond his prescience. I would be curious to find out his present take on developments like the internet, or for that matter, VHS recording. He was cognizant of the existence of cable systems but did not appear to attribute much value or potential.    In his closing, he admitted elimination of television was unlikely but the major failing of the dissertation is he had no confidence any adaptation save total elimination could be achieved or that any such efforts would be of measurable benefit. As a result, the reader is abandoned with only his cautionary admonishments but no suggested alternative course of action, assuming one is in agreement with his basic premise.	2001-06-11
US	45192057	R3HMX8TJAAUDOO	0374227748	874707360	Islam's Black Slaves: The Other Black Diaspora	Books	2	17	22	N	N	Minimal Value	I have not read Ronald Segal's account of slavery in the Western world and if this book a a reasonable representation of his objectivity, style and competency, I find only the slightest justification to rectify that omission. I am sure there is a compelling history of slavery under the Islamic system. I even concede Mr. Segal has provided a copious amount of information. The challenge is to organize his research, separate fact from speculation and then engage in independent objective analysis.<br /><br />Under the best of circumstances, it would be ambitious to attempt to thoroughly and accurately chronicle the evolution of any societal institution spanning more than twelve centuries in a book of less than 250 pages, excluding notes and indexes. In the preface, Mr. Segal points out a dearth of resource material, in comparison to the available documentation of the Atlantic trade, served as an early deterrent. In many respects, the book reflects that deficiency since he devotes as much attention to iteration of an Islamic timeline as he does to slavery under Islamic theory.<br /><br />For reasons not explicitly stated in the text, Mr. Segal decided to approach his subject through comparison and contrast rather than to offer a purely distinctive account of Saharan practices. After noting the comparable estimated totals of blacks enslaved under each system (he accepts a figure exceeding 11.5 million for each system),  one of his major challenges is to offer plausible causes for the statistically insignificant numbers of acknowledged African descendants in present day Islamic countries. He postulates:<br /><br />a) Whereas Western slavery was fundamentally an economic system,  under Islamic rule, it was more of a symbol of conspicuous consumption.<br /><br />b) By religious doctrine, the Islamic system was comparatively humane, devoid of the racial attitudes and prejudices that permeated the West. Miscegenation and liberalized manumission were prominent characteristics facilitating ease of assimilation into Islamic societies.<br /><br />c)Gender ratios for each system were reversed. Islamic trade was typified by the importation of two females for every male. However, although most were placed in harems as concubines or relegated to domestic servitude, fertility and birth rates were measurably less than that experienced in the West.<br /><br />d)Master/slave progeny were customarily emancipated, again in accordance religious principles set forth in the Koran.<br />e)Significant proportions of males were castrated, imported for homosexual gratification or forced into military service; all of which would have impacted fecundity.<br /><br />Rather curiously for a system that has lasted for more than 14 centuries - he lightly touches upon the existence of slave trade in present day Mauritania and Sudan -  Mr. Segal asserts slavery was never institutionalized in the Islamic Middle East, and he seems to be oblivious to the numerable contradictions to the enlightenment he attributes to Islamic adherents.<br /><br />In the end, it comes down to a value judgment on Mr. Segal's part, the Western form of slavery was more severe. In my opinion his assessment is not radically different than evaluating the relative humanity of lethal injection versus the electric chair.<br /><br />In the main, the text is somewhat difficult to follow if the reader is not familiar with Pre-Ottoman Empire middle eastern history, geographic locales and naming conventions. The author elected to avoid conversion of Islamic terms and generally failed to provide adequate present era references to minimize confusion. He also tended to seamlessly float between eras and regimes which was particularly disconcerting in what is ostensibly a historical work.<br /><br />The concluding chapter of the book dealt with the emergence of Black Muslims in the United States. Why it was included in this work is beyond me.<br /><br />The story of the dual impact of slavery on the AfricanContinent needs to be told, and as it pertains to the Islamic version more investigation is sorely required. Hopefully other historians of greater proficiency will take up the tasksorely required. Hopefully other historians of greater proficiency will take up the task	2001-05-31
US	45192057	R136Y46E2416VT	0679601872	552921765	The Souls of Black Folk (Modern Library)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The initial stages of a pragmatic view	Over the years, numerable attempts to categorize THE SOULS OF BLACK FOLK have been undertaken by scholars. For many it is considered a classical work of literary genius; others classify it as a seminal effort of sociological research. More than a few view it as a visionary historical document while there are those who consider it merely a book time has superseded. I do not know where to situate it in the literary spectrum and frankly where it resides is not particularly important. I do know it endures as salient commentary on the conditions of race relations (at least the black/white dichotomy) from the time of emancipation to the postmodern Jim Crow policies of the new millennium.<br /><br />At the time of its publication in 1903, the re-United States was only forty years removed from the disorganized and disjunctive manumission of nearly 10 million blacks. *Plessy v. Ferguson*, establishing the doctrine of \\"separate but equal,\\" had been decreed only seven years prior. In practicality, mechanisms to assist in the absorption of blacks into larger society were non-existent and in most quarters, no longer under contemplation. The collection of essays in this book represent Dubois' thinking at the time in regard to the challenges confronting Black and White America, a litany of encumbrances that have undergone modification over the past century but failing to recede to reminiscence.<br /><br />Dubois was a unapologetic elitist, an intellectual on par with the best of white society who was convinced logic and reason would tap the social conscience of the white \\"Talented Tenth,\\" compelling that class to adopt what he viewed as the most efficacious strategy to approach the country's \\"Negro problem.\\" He saw a duality of accountability for both cause and resolution, however he also believed it was incumbent that the most talented from both races assume the reins of leadership to pull/propel to action the less astute masses. He was optimistic, but he was in error. Then, as arguably is the case now, the majority of white society, including the intellectually gifted, was unwilling to assume any culpability for the status of the disaffected black.<br /><br />Conventional wisdom of the era indicated the \\"Negro problem\\" could be circumvented simply by implementation of tragically short-sighted, monolithic programs. The idealistic, but fundamentally flawed, philosophy of Booker T. Washington, an example of one of the earliest emanations of the principle of black absolution of presumptive white guilt, was less disturbing to white sensibilities and demanded far fewer altruistic considerations. Conversely, aspects of Dubois' philosophy represent an incipient variation of \\"victimization\\" although at this juncture he was not (nor did he ever become) parenthetically opposed to all precepts of Washington's ideology. He objected to the implied affirmation of, and compliance with, perpetual underclass treatment.<br /><br />In ensuing years, Dubois' philosophy grew more Afrocentric, substantially closer to the legacy he passed on to the activists of the 1950s and 1960s. THE SOULS OF BLACK FOLK is one tile of the mosaic W.E.B. Dubois now embodies. I rate the book 4 stars because it must be viewed in the context of his total bibliography. On independent analysis alone, the true picture Dr. Dubois is obscured.ase now, the majority of white society, including the intellectually gifted, was unwilling to assume any culpability for the status of the disaffected black.    Conventional wisdom of the era indicated the \\"Negro problem\\" could be circumvented simply by implementation of tragically short-sighted, monolithic programs. The idealistic, but fundamentally flawed, philosophy of Booker T. Washington, an example of one of the earliest emanations of the principle of black absolution of presumptive white guilt, was less disturbing to white sensibilities and demanded far fewer altruistic considerations. Conversely, aspects of Dubois' philosophy represent an incipient variation of \\"victimization\\" although at this juncture he was not (nor did he ever become) parenthetically opposed to all precepts of Washington's ideology. He objected to the implied affirmation of, and compliance with, perpetual underclass treatment.    In ensuing years, Dubois' philosophy grew more Afrocentric, substantially closer to the legacy he passed on to the activists of the 1950s and 1960s. THE SOULS OF BLACK FOLK is one tile of the mosaic W.E.B. Dubois now embodies. I rate the book 4 stars because it must be viewed in the context of his total bibliography. On independent analysis alone, the true picture Dr. Dubois is obscured.	2001-05-31
US	45192057	R1DER2L6EZD9DG	0393316742	853235633	Black Intellectuals: Race and Responsibility in American Life (New Edition)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not precisely as the title would indicate	An excellent reference book that should become a primary source for anyone interested in the evolution of the Black Intelligentsia. Professor Bank's seminal work obligated re-evaluation of my concept of intellectualism; while I cannot wholeheartedly agree with his conclusions regarding some noted individuals, the exercise was beneficial. He has offered an arguably relaxed interpretation of intellectualism therefore, a number of the individuals he highlights may have been fortunate beneficiaries of Caucasian largesse rather than bonafide critical thinkers, obviously dependent on one's subjective view. It is a somewhat free-flowing area of inquiry, in many respects analogous to the mis-appellation of *literate* to many of today's writers based on fortuitous publication and but meager substance.<br /><br />Banks' text revealed itself to be moderately distinct from what I anticipated. He deals less with specific ideologies than with the chronology of people and their promulgated ideas. One particularly interesting sidelight related to the constraints on the Black Intellectual, until very recently, who elected to think \\"outside the box.\\" In fact, vestigial reluctance by peers to acknowledge the contributions of individuals who give contemplation to subject matter outside the limits of Afrocentric or ethnic concerns still exists.<br /><br />In sum, BLACK INTELLECTUALS is an indispensable overview, but definitely only a starting point for this area of investigation. The book is a commendable effort to consolidate referent material in convenient volume. It documents many of the pertinent parties but is admittedly not an attempt to be all-inclusive. What it does accomplish is immutable validation of the vast contributions of Blacks and specifically, Black Americans to every facet of art, literature, science and philosophy, in spite of the obstacles placed before them throughout the history of this country.	2001-05-21
US	45192057	R2BXXBLJIJFJUV	0965683613	709555409	Race, Evolution, and Behavior: A Life History Perspective (3rd Edition)	Books	4	27	38	N	N	So, it turns out size does matter	According to J. Philippe Rushton, empirical data have demonstrated there is a small but robust correlation between brain size and intelligence. Thus, logically based on his tables, charts, and inferences, although there will be intra-group variations and inter-group overlaps, *on average* females, irrespective of population group, are less intelligent than males. Rushton, who is perturbed but undeterred by accusations of racism, apparently views potential allegations of misogynistic thought a greater liability since he fails to address the implicit gender based differences reflected by his theories in meaningful terms. Perfunctory treatment of anomalies like the preceding are what most trouble me with his theories.<br /><br />In RACE, EVOLUTION AND BEHAVIOR, Rushton sets out to prove, relying on past anthropological, psychometric, and psychological studies, substantial biological differences exist between the three major racial groups: Mongoloids(Asians, Orientals); Caucasoid(Europeans or whites); and Negroids (Africans or Blacks). Through analysis of extant data on more than 60 variables, he purports evolutionary adaptation has resulted in genotype differentiation where *on average* Mongoloids and Negroids generally fall at opposite ends of a continuum in the areas of brain size, intelligence, personality traits, marital relations, law abidingness, and reproductive behaviors, with Caucasoid s typically residing mid-range for any pertinent category. Acceptance or rejection of his thesis invariably hinges on a decidedly complex genetic premise, but reasonably succinct socio-political consideration. Is \\"race\\" a valid division at the sub-species level? For the individual who considers race a social construct, very little of the data offered by Rushton and even less of his theoretical synthesis will ever be viewed as anything more than subjective pontification.<br /><br />Personally, I wanted to find the book to be deplorable, however, it turned out to be a compelling, albeit tendentious work of sociobiological investigation. My disdain for the message does not justify the inclination to shoot the messenger (for THIS indiscretion, anyway). The polarity of views on the book are clearly evident in prior reviews, I have no intention of reiteration ad infinitum. In practicality, the overwhelming majority of dissenting reviews focus on one or two aspects of his compiled data or postulations, similar to my introductory paragraph; still others who find intuitive concordance but are subsumed to politically correct denial, wish to implement the ostrich syndrome. If one accepts the \\"Out of Africa\\" hypothesis as the most plausible explanation of the Hominid diaspora, genetic manifestations, though not necessarily exactly as elucidated by Professor Rushton's version of r-K reproductive strategy have to be evaluated as reasonable evolutionary patterns for *Homo. sapiens* whether the prevailing identification is Race, Population group, or ethnic group. Rushton acknowledges a likelihood of 50% environmental influence to the phenotypic characteristics he highlights. But that point is obviated for most readers by the incendiary implications of any acknowledgement of genotypic difference.<br /><br />The true significance of the book may be in the realm of the philosophical which Rushton addresses in the section of chapter 12, entitled, \\" Is Race Science Immoral?\\" History has offered a pretty concise answer, and if vitriolic books like Levin's WHY RACE MATTERS (endorsed by Rushton without qualification, NOW we shoot the messenger) are any indication, we are no more presently prepared  to accept genetic diversity than at any other juncture in history. Repetition of past atrocities is not mere speculation.us work of sociobiological investigation. My disdain for the message does not justify the inclination to shoot the messenger (for THIS indiscretion, anyway). The polarity of views on the book are clearly evident in prior reviews, I have no intention of reiteration ad infinitum. In practicality, the overwhelming majority of dissenting reviews focus on one or two aspects of his compiled data or postulations, similar to my introductory paragraph; still others who find intuitive concordance but are subsumed to politically correct denial, wish to implement the ostrich syndrome. If one accepts the \\"Out of Africa\\" hypothesis as the most plausible explanation of the Hominid diaspora, genetic manifestations, though not necessarily exactly as elucidated by Professor Rushton's version of r-K reproductive strategy have to be evaluated as reasonable evolutionary patterns for *Homo. sapiens* whether the prevailing identification is Race, Population group, or ethnic group. Rushton acknowledges a likelihood of 50% environmental influence to the phenotypic characteristics he highlights. But that point is obviated for most readers by the incendiary implications of any acknowledgement of genotypic difference.    The true significance of the book may be in the realm of the philosophical which Rushton addresses in the section of chapter 12, entitled, \\" Is Race Science Immoral?\\" History has offered a pretty concise answer, and if vitriolic books like Levin's WHY RACE MATTERS (endorsed by Rushton without qualification, NOW we shoot the messenger) are any indication, we are no more presently prepared  to accept genetic diversity than at any other juncture in history. Repetition of past atrocities is not mere speculation.	2001-05-21
US	45192057	R1ORTFQ4KQGD5V	0525945725	626475978	The Darwin Awards: Evolution in Action	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The 'dumb' gene is universal	A good book for those low self-esteem days where reassurance there will always be somebody with less common sense is the best prescription...or at least there used to be someone. Best appreciated if read over an extended span. As indicated by the repetitive irrational choices of the honorees, the urgency to finish quickly is not necessarily the optimum course of action.<br /><br />Besides, after scanning a large group of these accounts at one time, you might begin to contemplate your personal values, which pretty much takes you back to where you started.	2001-05-10
US	45192057	R2Y2859KWV34IW	0060194111	576068730	The Most Brilliant Thoughts of All Time (In Two Lines or Less)	Books	3	16	21	N	N	Lead, follow, plagiarize	I received this book as a gift and I'm still trying to process the implications of that. On some level, you have to be impressed by anyone with the arrogance to include personal quotations (on page one, no less) amongst those he considers to be the most brilliant in written history. Respect however, is an entirely separate consideration. The book would have been more aptly titled, \\"My Favorite Thoughts of All Time in Two Lines or Less\\" but then of course, the prospective purchaser is prompted to make a value judgment as to whether or not they care about Mr. Shanahan's choices. Same thing applies here, it's just less of a conscious consideration.<br /><br />In any event, the book is an effective conversation piece although I have serious reservations about using any quotations without prior knowledge of context. It is quite conceivable you will be perceived as a dilettante, and if you are truly honest with yourself, potentially a fraud. If you cannot be well-read, I suppose faking it is the next best thing. On the plus side, the CD is an effective cure for insomnia.<br /><br />At the risk of self-fulfilled prophesy, Mr. Shanahan's opening salvo from Edith Wharton says it best: \\"There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it.\\" I'm reasonably certain he and I hold contrasting interpretations of her inference.	2001-05-10
US	45192057	R6INXD363SLJA	0684836572	93105977	The Assassination of the Black Male Image	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Point taken...Already understood...NOW WHAT?!?	A provocative title however what Dr. Hutchinson actually addresses is the perpetuation of the extant image. The Black male has endeavored to assume control of his image since at least the dawn of Portuguese abductions from Africa over five centuries ago.<br /><br />This book is a delicate but largely unsuccessful balancing act where very little new information is brought to light. It is conceivable some individuals who are oblivious to the world around them may find his premise a revelation; I would submit to Black American males there is nothing profound to be found here. It's simply business as usual. Relative power, arguable influence, tenuous celebrity or proportional affluence will fail to assure a positive public image in the perception of the wider community. The probability is any Black male, including one of generally acknowledged stature, who exhibits positive qualities will be construed as an anomaly, but as previously noted, that is neither a new view nor in any way unconventional. What was remotely intriguing, was to ascertain what particular methodology Dr. Hutchinson intended to utilize to lambast the presumptive oppressors while tacitly mounting a defense for some actors often, only marginally oppressed. In essence, he reverted to the commodious realms of victimology. It does not work.<br /><br />Dr. Hutchinson situates the offensive (Mike Tyson, Marion Barry) in the same category as the offended (Clarence Thomas, Michael Jackson) and the affronted (Michael Jordan, Spike Lee) adjacent to the recondited (Rodney King, Louis Farrakhan). All are under the same palliative umbrella of indignation which only serves to vitiate any reasonable opportunity to buttress - for the skeptical - what for practical purposes is a truism. He assumes threadbare contradictory positions to support his premise but ends up creating non sequiturs. In defense of Malcolm X, who does not require one, he states Malcolm's beliefs and thinking regarding what we now interpret as feminism were representative of his era's prevalent thought. By the same benign assessment, all of the derogatory references he highlights in today's media (or yesterday's) could be retrospectively whitewashed with the same wide bristled brush. The apologist approach in reference to a Black icon renders the vituperative approach employed to castigate the white media - who are equally as blameless in \\"prevailing view of the era\\" explanation - disingenuous.<br /><br />He admonishes Terry McMillan, amongst others, for failing to include balanced portrayals of Black males in her books, yet he is reticent to the paucity of positive Black male images in the preponderance of works written for the same audience by Black males (Yes, it is acknowledged his criticism of John Singleton is in that vein). I do not take issue with the premise, many of these characterizations are cumulatively insulting, generally superficial, and typically non-productive. But in neither case does he provide examples to qualify, or quantify, the harmful effects.<br /><br />The copy of the book I read was the self-published edition. It contained a large number of editing omissions and proofreading oversights yet some of the errors were too blatant to be unintentional. Names of individuals he obviously views as ideological contrasts were misspelled or completely excluded from the index. Regardless of politics, the derisive \\"deh Judge\\" was unwarranted, symbolic of the incongruous aspects of some of Dr. Hutchinson's pronouncements.<br /><br />Dr. Hutchinson outlines the evident but fails to offer solutions, remedies, alternatives...or trade-offs. He does not purport deliberate subversion but he implies de facto subjugation. In attempting exculpation for the notorious, he indirectly gives credence to the attitudes he wishes to eradicate.sentative of his era's prevalent thought. By the same benign assessment, all of the derogatory references he highlights in today's media (or yesterday's) could be retrospectively whitewashed with the same wide bristled brush. The apologist approach in reference to a Black icon renders the vituperative approach employed to castigate the white media - who are equally as blameless in \\"prevailing view of the era\\" explanation - disingenuous.    He admonishes Terry McMillan, amongst others, for failing to include balanced portrayals of Black males in her books, yet he is reticent to the paucity of positive Black male images in the preponderance of works written for the same audience by Black males (Yes, it is acknowledged his criticism of John Singleton is in that vein). I do not take issue with the premise, many of these characterizations are cumulatively insulting, generally superficial, and typically non-productive. But in neither case does he provide examples to qualify, or quantify, the harmful effects.    The copy of the book I read was the self-published edition. It contained a large number of editing omissions and proofreading oversights yet some of the errors were too blatant to be unintentional. Names of individuals he obviously views as ideological contrasts were misspelled or completely excluded from the index. Regardless of politics, the derisive \\"deh Judge\\" was unwarranted, symbolic of the incongruous aspects of some of Dr. Hutchinson's pronouncements.    Dr. Hutchinson outlines the evident but fails to offer solutions, remedies, alternatives...or trade-offs. He does not purport deliberate subversion but he implies de facto subjugation. In attempting exculpation for the notorious, he indirectly gives credence to the attitudes he wishes to eradicate.	2001-05-09
US	45192057	R3SZODLM1TYF5J	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	And the dog isn't feeling good either	Twilly Spree is a mid-twenties slacker living in the wilds even though he has the benefit of a five million dollar inheritance from the fruits of his grandfather's labors. Idealistic, he sees it as his moral responsibility to protect the environment from violators whether the act of denigration is a carelessly discarded cigarette butt or illegal dumping of toxic waste. Twilly has uncontrollable anger management issues, not comprehending the concept of measured response. When he encounters Palmer Stoat, an egotistical lobbyist for Floridian politicos, tossing food wrappers out of the window of his pristine Range Rover, Twilly sees it as his obligation to teach the self-absorbed conspicuous consumer a lesson he'll not soon forget. But the obtuse Palmer doesn't make the connection forcing Twilly to do something that could not be misunderstood. He kidnaps the lobbyist's lovable black Labrador, McGuinn nee Boodle, leading to a series of extenuations, including a liaison with Palmer's trophy wife, Desi; relentless pursuit by a sexually deviant thug aptly named Mr. Gash; and the curious intervention of the eccentric ex-governor of Florida, Clinton Tyree.<br /><br />By the middle of the book, it wasn't entirely clear who is the titular 'sick puppy': 1) Hiaasen, for writing it; 2) any or all of the menagerie of delusional/psychotic/self-indulgent/perverted characters; 3) the dog; 4) me, for enjoying the demented romp, or; 5) all of the above. By the conclusion, &#34;3&#34; thru &#34;5&#34; could be excluded.<br />.<br />Up to the midpoint, Hiaasen had written a irreverent farce that had me chuckling with each succeeding page. The uptempo, witty dialogue is engaging and the scenarios he created were inspired. But suddenly, the story lost its' thrust, devolving into another 'hero in peril' story. Hiaasen also elects to incorporate narration from the dog's perspective, which would have been alright if the dog's view had been included from his first appearance. After 180 pages, it came across as an ineffective gimmick. The major deficiency is the story became too predictable and somewhat tedious. Whereas earlier I couldn't wait to see where Hiaasen was going, now I couldn't wait for him to just get there, all the time hoping he had some surprises in store. He didn't.<br /><br />SICK PUPPY has a top-notch beginning, but like an also-ran 400 meter sprinter, it labors down the stretch.it came across as an ineffective gimmick. The major deficiency is the story became too predictable and somewhat tedious. Whereas earlier I couldn't wait to see where Hiaasen was going, now I couldn't wait for him to just get there, all the time hoping he had some surprises in store. He didn't.<br /><br />SICK PUPPY has a top-notch beginning, but like an also-ran 400 meter sprinter, it labors down the stretch.	2001-05-09
US	45192057	R2TFK07RNH3E6R	1886947422	732766166	Forbidden Fairways: African Americans and the Game of Golf	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A mulligan on golf history,	FORBIDDEN FAIRWAYS is a commendable effort to document the largely unacknowledged participation of Black Americans in the game of golf. I know I will never plant another tee without thinking of Dr. George Grant, who in 1899 received the first patent for the indispensable little device (naturally, I should be thinking of positive swing thoughts but we won't go there).<br /><br /> The book is highly informative, offering theretofore hidden tidbits about Black players, caddies, course architects(!) and the earliest organizations. Anyone who appreciates the sport and everyone who enjoys reading about those who exhibit indefatigable commitment in the face of immeasurable obstruction will find the book a pleasant read.<br /><br />The author, Dr. Calvin Sinnette, is an aficionado rather than a historian or journalist. That factor did have some significance as, at times, he tended to engage in speculation when adequate resources were not available. In limited instances - in my opinion - his personal views were espoused as though they were part of the verifiable record. I also found it curious there was no mention of the Sammy Davis, Jr. Greater Hartford Open although Mr. Davis was the first, and as far as I know only, Black American to have a PGA tour event named in his honor, under any circumstances, a notable achievement.<br /><br />Additionally, the book was distributed by a second tier publishing house; editing and proofreading could have been improved. I'm sure FAMU students will be surprised to find out they should now report to Miami.<br /><br />The preceding criticisms are minor. In no way do they detract from the overall value of Dr. Sinnette's seminal work.	2001-05-09
US	45192057	RJ04PBXYQNB82	0671040839	288426258	The Living Blood	Books	4	8	8	N	N	This lady has the Midas touch	In THE LIVING BLOOD, ostensibly her sequel to 1997's MY SOUL TO KEEP, Tananarive Due adroitly explores territory traveled far and wide by many other authors, the age-old classic battle between the forces of good and evil.<br /><br />The central characters from MSTK, the immortal Dawit Wolde and his estranged wife, Jessica (also now an immortal) are back but TLB is a very different book from it's antecedent. Primarily,  plot revolves around Fana, the precocious three year old daughter of the two immortals, a young child who is beginning to exhibit powers well beyond her mother's understanding and even further beyond her ability to control. As with her home and clinic in South Africa, where she had fled to soon after Fana's birth, Jessica decides to abandon the clinic she and her dedicated sister, Alexis, are running in Botswana to seek out guidance from the LifeBrothers, the secret Ethiopian colony of immortals, before Fana's powers mature any further. She knows the blood coursing through her veins can be a salvation but also carries a tremendous liability. Unbeknownst to her, but not unexpected, there are conflicting external forces, corporeal and otherwise who want to gain control of the blood and her daughter, for  a multiplicity of reasons: some personal, some altrustic, some captialistic and some...just pure malevolence.<br /><br />Due does an excellent job of encapsulating MSTK's significant plot lines within TLB. She masterfully crafts a portal to an alternate 'unreality' as seen through the comprehension of a three year old. She evokes vivid images of Southern Africa and the little acknowledged history and beauty of Ethiopia. As she has proven with earlier works, she writes with uncomplicated elegance, seemingly impervious to the arrogance so often displayed in the works of so many other writers.<br /><br />TLB is a good book but that is not to infer it is flawless.  There are a number of incongruities that cannot be effectively addressed here without detracting from the story for future readers. One that I can talk about however, might be my misconceived idea of the LifeBrothers, and their ethereal leader, Khaldun, rather than a failing on the part of the author.<br /><br />Due chose not to devote a great deal of the story to the LifeBrothers, their philosophy and the religious implications. In essence, the immortals were portrayed as little more than men who just lived forever, subject to the same petty jealousies, competitiveness and insecurities as mortals. Rather than superior, they appeared to be stagnant, unable to die but for the most part unwilling to evolve.<br /><br />Hopefully, there will be a follow-up to TLB that deals with that aspect in depth.uture readers. One that I can talk about however, might be my misconceived idea of the LifeBrothers, and their ethereal leader, Khaldun, rather than a failing on the part of the author.    Due chose not to devote a great deal of the story to the LifeBrothers, their philosophy and the religious implications. In essence, the immortals were portrayed as little more than men who just lived forever, subject to the same petty jealousies, competitiveness and insecurities as mortals. Rather than superior, they appeared to be stagnant, unable to die but for the most part unwilling to evolve.     Hopefully, there will be a follow-up to TLB that deals with that aspect in depth.	2001-05-07
US	45192057	RSNGIZ2X8OTII	158648026X	118875723	Taboo: Why Black Athletes Dominate Sports And Why We're Afraid To Talk About It	Books	5	7	12	N	N	This time it's personal	Jon Entine poses the question, \\"So why do we so readily accept the idea evolution has turned out Jews with a genetic predisposition to Tay-Sachs disease and that blacks are more susceptible to sickle cell anemia yet find it racist to suggest that West Africans may have evolved into the world's best sprinters?\\"...Well, it isn't.<br /><br />In the lexicon of multiculturalism, 'race' doesn't exist, therefore racism is a non-term. Maybe, the suggestion is 'ethnically insensitive.' Possibly, Mr. Entine's question is merely rhetorical since his tome makes it quite clear he knows the suggestion is benign, but the ramifications resulting from periodically implemented subjective agendas offered by those who  promulgate populace group superiority based on bio-diversity hold the real peril. Maybe it is the lugubrious episodes of self-flagellation African descendants must endure as the result of any concession to idea genetic differentiation, phenotypically or genotypically, is a plausibility. Ideally, a racial/cultural/ethnic/population (this could become tedious) group's diversity should be construed as little more an area of distinctiveness with no implication to the group's access or opportunities in larger society. Needless to say, that is not the the reality of the world and often the tangible effects of theory have been devastating. It's why many post-modernists prefer tacit acceptance of victimization to maintain an aura of contrition amongst those culpable for past oppressive actions. \\"Race\\" is a social construct until prevailing wisdom requires group partitioning to buttress some advocated social issue, and defining the lines of demarcation are within the latitude of the aggrieved, only. One thing is certain, the only areas where diversity is not a respected value for the modernists are in dissemination of nonconforming views and any suggestion of any manifestation of racial bio-diversity.<br /><br />As a journalist rather than an anthropologist, physiologist, psychologist, sociologist or any other 'ologist', Mr. Entine is not destined to have the last world on genetic predisposition -  not that he should. The reality, however, is any information emanating from the scientific community will not be dispassionately adjudged either. Prevailing wisdom promulgates 'undefinable race', with any evident variants exclusively attributable to environmental influences. The debate is not new, it has been waged in different forms for centuries but reaction to the horrific atrocities of the 20th century elevated the egalitarians to the ideological summit. Unfortunately, via tacit revisionism, the acknowledged definition of egalitarian morphed from \\"equal in worth\\" to \\"identical at birth,\\" a premise unsubstantiated by extant empirics.<br /><br />Withstanding the review of every reasonable objection, I reluctantly find myself consonant in principle with Mr. Entine's generalized postulations, which serves to transport me to a place of significant discomfort since I know logically, I cannot categorically dismiss the postulations of Rushton, Jensen or Herrnstein and Murray. If I accept the the rationale of prototypical adaptations such as a broader nose to accommodate equatorial climatic conditions or enhanced musculature to facilitate leaping ability are valid, than I must also concede the probability of genotype variables that have direct impact on intelligence is not beyond feasibility. The resultant question becomes whether the existent data are necessarily pejorative to Africans and African descendants or are prevalent reactions ill-founded paranoia. Here again, the prevailing view obfuscates the answer. I find it to be a curious capitulation the the determinists' reasoning. That seems to be another area where agreement is viable, that it is a question of juxtaposition, 'brawn or brain.' Could it be that the real answer is 'brawn and brain?\\" Environmental \\"thought police\\" proscribe existentialism as their province alone, without objective consideration of the underlying basis. Preemptive circumvention is the order of the day, particularly where any mechanism to measure intelligence is proffered. The first objection is invariably the onus of cultural bias immediately supplemented by protestations regarding the nebulous quality of intelligence. It has been proposed by some environmentalists, intelligence is a completely immeasurable value, that there may in fact be 100 or more \\"intelligences.\\" In both instances, the alternative positions seem predicated on social objectives rather than science.<br /><br />It should be noted Mr. Entine takes no position on the matter of \\"g\\", or innate intelligence in general. He presents a balanced overview of extant research to delineate the encumbrances to full and open research of bio-diversity. He discussion - understandably - is focused on physiological differentiation.<br /><br />As noted, I find Mr. Entine's ruminations regarding the predominance of the descendants of West Africans in sports where speed, quickness, agility and verticality are paramount to be reasonable. Aside, it was not entirely clear what criteria other than physical appearance was used to ascertain the lineage of African American athletes. In the case of East Africans, the prima facie evidence tends to support his premise without equivocation in regard to endurance events in track and road racing. However, his views are less persuasive when one scrutinizes a wider range of sports. The miniscule genetic advantages he alludes to to not appear as pertinent in many other endeavors. He places a great deal of credence in the effects of environmental influences he believes constrain the Africans' access to equalized opportunity in sports where dominance is not as clearly evident or succinctly, a non-issue at present. Unless he anticipates a significant influx of East Africans at Daytona, I believe the premise would have benefited from narrower parameters. I have similar misgivings with regard to women in as much as whatever genetic advantage West African descent female sprinters may have realized, West African descended female basketball players seem to blow out ACL's as frequently as their \\"Nordic\\" peers.<br /><br />In the final analysis, TABOO: WHY BLACK ATHLETES DOMINATE SPORTS AND WHY WE'RE AFRAID TO TALK ABOUT IT is fundamentally a polemic to foster discussion of the second part of that provocative title. It admirably meets the challenge.  The basic questions are unchanged; nature or nurture, brawn or brain. TABOO does not contain the answers but it unquestionably instigates healthy discussion.ing basis. Preemptive circumvention is the order of the day, particularly where any mechanism to measure intelligence is proffered. The first objection is invariably the onus of cultural bias immediately supplemented by protestations regarding the nebulous quality of intelligence. It has been proposed by some environmentalists, intelligence is a completely immeasurable value, that there may in fact be 100 or more \\"intelligences.\\" In both instances, the alternative positions seem predicated on social objectives rather than science.    It should be noted Mr. Entine takes no position on the matter of \\"g\\", or innate intelligence in general. He presents a balanced overview of extant research to delineate the encumbrances to full and open research of bio-diversity. He discussion - understandably - is focused on physiological differentiation.    As noted, I find Mr. Entine's ruminations regarding the predominance of the descendants of West Africans in sports where speed, quickness, agility and verticality are paramount to be reasonable. Aside, it was not entirely clear what criteria other than physical appearance was used to ascertain the lineage of African American athletes. In the case of East Africans, the prima facie evidence tends to support his premise without equivocation in regard to endurance events in track and road racing. However, his views are less persuasive when one scrutinizes a wider range of sports. The miniscule genetic advantages he alludes to to not appear as pertinent in many other endeavors. He places a great deal of credence in the effects of environmental influences he believes constrain the Africans' access to equalized opportunity in sports where dominance is not as clearly evident or succinctly, a non-issue at present. Unless he anticipates a significant influx of East Africans at Daytona, I believe the premise would have benefited from narrower parameters. I have similar misgivings with regard to women in as much as whatever genetic advantage West African descent female sprinters may have realized, West African descended female basketball players seem to blow out ACL's as frequently as their \\"Nordic\\" peers.    In the final analysis, TABOO: WHY BLACK ATHLETES DOMINATE SPORTS AND WHY WE'RE AFRAID TO TALK ABOUT IT is fundamentally a polemic to foster discussion of the second part of that provocative title. It admirably meets the challenge.  The basic questions are unchanged; nature or nurture, brawn or brain. TABOO does not contain the answers but it unquestionably instigates healthy discussion.	2001-05-02
US	45192057	R1MY3C0SCGNLHM	0452282101	976247392	The Debt: What America Owes to Blacks	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An enigma	As an American who happens to be Black, arriving at a conclusion that could be cogently presented (which has yet to be decided) regarding Randall Robinson's book was a significantly greater challenge than I anticipated. First of all, I'm not particularly enamored with the prospect of acquiring 40 acres somewhere in Montana not owned by Ted Turner. Secondly, I suspect if &#34;Uncle Sam&#34; commenced handing out checks to 'qualifying' descendants of former slaves the racial breakdown of the 2000 census would have to be re-examined due to an unexpected spike in blended respondents. Third, as a Black American, am I going to receive an exclusion from the the resultant but inevitable tax increase? Let's face it, if I have to contribute what's the point. BUT, bottomline, while I do not agree with much of his analysis, I completely endorse reading the book.<br /><br />In the introduction he states, &#34;Here my intent is to stimulate, not to sate. To pose the question, to invite the debate.&#34; No matter how unpalatable I found many of his postulations, his text most assuredly exceeded so modest an objective. He wrote with passion and in eloquence, interspersing sepulchral African and Black American historical references with anecdotal experiences. Occasionally he included allegorical representations - under the circumstances, arguably an ill-conceived idea - to illuminate somewhat tendentious positions. At times, the ...(smooth) tone transcended to the ...(self evident) and the sacrosanct. My sense is this is not an area which lends itself to a great deal of empirical data, thus, the book was an opinionated effort rather than a scholarly tome.<br /><br />Mr. Robinson focused on the vestigial effect the pernicious system of chattel slavery has had on present era Black Americans, in addition to the insidious degradation of economic growth in Sub-Saharan Africa and other countries were the African slave trade flourished. One prominent difficulty - at least, for me - was by nature of his profession and interests, Mr. Robinson has an enhanced degree of connectivity to continental Africa and other developing nations not necessarily shared by the wider Black community. That does not invalidate his premise nor is it to be taken as a criticism of his commitment but rather simple acknowledgement of the relative deficiency in Black cultural awareness among many Black Americans. It's hard to embrace a global view when you are struggling to overcome localized encumbrances, and a distinct cause and effect are not clearly manifest.<br /><br />Robinson purports the subliminal impact of slavery has persisted for nearly 150 years, a speculation I find to be atavistic when considering personal eidetic anecdotes. It appeared to be a flaccid restructure of the victimology rationale. My family experience does not support his contention for at least two antecedent generations, I do not subscribe to his premise and I would be loathe to accept similarly abnegated justification from my children in the case of poor academic performance. It strikes me as disingenuous to attempt to attribute generalized race-based under performance to the same abstruse reasoning. Obviously my experience cannot be extrapolated as representative of the totality of the Colored/Negro/Black experience over the pertinent time frame but I also question whether my experience is anomalous. I would submit the author's personal family history fails to correspond to his pretext as well.<br /><br />Robinson was at times contradictory. On page 77 he wrote:<br /><br />&#34;In considering the differences in current academic record without considering the original causes to which I have referred would not economic class divisions tell us more - not just about test gaps but about the very notion of race and it's mystifying power to distort perceptions?&#34;<br /><br />However, on page 107, he countered:<br /><br />&#34;There will always be differences in abilities and achievements of individuals, but achievement differences that correlate with race must never be tolerated. That gap must be fully closed.&#34;<br /><br />Robinson was unequivocal in outlining his endorsement of the first quote above. He used his younger daughter's exemplary academic performance in substantiation, even though support of that line of reasoning tends to negate the plausibility of race wide deleterious subconscious constraints. In as much as all of the concerned parties in his personal example are Black, any latent effects from the legacy of slavery must be ephemeral and addressable. If hypothetically, the constraints do exist, it appears the first appropriate action is enlightenment and recognition followed by the implementation of some of the other inputs his daughter was privy to, rather than federally instituted reparations. Unfortunately, Mr. Robinson knows it is not so simplistic as extant data fails to demonstrate that economic equalization alone would bridge the gap. And, victimization is the convenient prevailing view.<br /><br />There are other instances of contradictions and circuitous reasoning. Other times, he drifted to the hyperbolic such as his recount of a meeting with a single mother in the Boston area where by utilization of his own brand of fuzzy math he implies the two attorneys accompanying him were in their mid-teens. He conveniently ignores other feasible influences that might serve to buttress the causes of some racial attitudes or exclusions, when acknowledgement of other possibilities would undermine his point.<br /><br />However, all of my objections fail to invalidate his basic intention. THE DEBT... meets the author's objective and is worthy of investigation by others, to assist them in formulation of their own opinions.s, but achievement differences that correlate with race must never be tolerated. That gap must be fully closed.&#34;<br /><br />Robinson was unequivocal in outlining his endorsement of the first quote above. He used his younger daughter's exemplary academic performance in substantiation, even though support of that line of reasoning tends to negate the plausibility of race wide deleterious subconscious constraints. In as much as all of the concerned parties in his personal example are Black, any latent effects from the legacy of slavery must be ephemeral and addressable. If hypothetically, the constraints do exist, it appears the first appropriate action is enlightenment and recognition followed by the implementation of some of the other inputs his daughter was privy to, rather than federally instituted reparations. Unfortunately, Mr. Robinson knows it is not so simplistic as extant data fails to demonstrate that economic equalization alone would bridge the gap. And, victimization is the convenient prevailing view.<br /><br />There are other instances of contradictions and circuitous reasoning. Other times, he drifted to the hyperbolic such as his recount of a meeting with a single mother in the Boston area where by utilization of his own brand of fuzzy math he implies the two attorneys accompanying him were in their mid-teens. He conveniently ignores other feasible influences that might serve to buttress the causes of some racial attitudes or exclusions, when acknowledgement of other possibilities would undermine his point.<br /><br />However, all of my objections fail to invalidate his basic intention. THE DEBT... meets the author's objective and is worthy of investigation by others, to assist them in formulation of their own opinions.	2001-04-26
US	45192057	R1VUJ0N6TVJJPK	0671040596	666522577	Deviant Ways	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Chris Mooney is "da bomb"	As the contrarian I would like to believe I am, I took twice as long as is usually the case with a book in this category to complete Chris Mooney's first novel. I just refused to force myself to finish because I didn't want to look for something else to read that I knew would not be as good. Move over Patterson and Deaver, it's time to create a slot on the best seller list for a new contender.<br /><br />As an FBI profiler, Jack Casey was at the top of the heap. Now, after a slew of cases that weigh heavily on his psyche, most especially the one that cost him his wife, he's trying to rebuild his life working as a detective in the tony New England town of Marblehead, Massachussetts. But instead of hormonal teens looking for a diversion, he comes up against a brilliant and deranged killer who calls himself \\"The Sandman\\", hellbent on bombing his name to the forefront of public consciousness. In order to apprehend him, Jack is going to be obligated to re-visit mental recesses he just as soon allow to remain blocked off. Aided by the suave, witty, mysterious, and eminently (not to mention imminently) resourceful Malcolm Fletcher - another ex-profiler, Jack has to battle his through a litany of obstacles, including those internally created. Can he out think The Sandman and are forces from his past going to allow him to succeed?<br /><br />Mooney doesn't waste time or pages building to a crisis. DEVIANT WAYS is non-stop action from page one. Without a dull interlude to be found, it is a thriller in every sense of the word.	2001-04-20
US	45192057	R2Q2OG1CKYOP54	0060984384	649757762	Our Kind of People: Inside America's Black Upper Class	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Where's Larr-O?	An intriguing book in spite of Graham's infuriating propensity to insinuate himself into nearly every account. I doubt he was ever referred to by a nickname as provincial as &#34;Larry&#34; but at times, I felt like I was reading the Black version of &#34;Where's Waldo?&#34; Clearly, he has some issues that demand interpretation by professionals with substantially more skill and training than I possess.<br /><br />The most significant value of OUR KIND OF PEOPLE is as an introductory historical reference to the fraternal, social, civic and economic organizations that came into being during the early 1900s and beyond to facilitate interaction among upward mobile Blacks. Quite often, these organizations were established in response to the discriminatory practices of comparable white entities. It was also interesting to see how the demographics of different regions played a part in determination of which members of the divergent Black communities might be considered &#34;elite,&#34;  as the characteristics in an area like Washington, D.C. were vastly different than areas like Detroit or Memphis. As Graham notes, the Upper and Upper Middle Classes are segments of Black America that have been minimally studied by anyone, and even less actively acknowledged by the larger community. Still today, Blacks are generally viewed in monolithic terms when the reality is a diversity of views, incomes, aspirations and capabilities, just as one would find with any other ethnicity. Graham's work leans heavily on the recollections of older representatives, many of whom have struggled for decades to distinquish themselves - in the eyes of whites - from the &#34;common Black&#34; on economic, intellectual and social grounds. It is also revealing to discover in many respects the fervent desires of these elite Blacks to be viewed as equals to whites on academic and professional levels were in some respects deleterious to overall progression as the greater emphasis in those high achievement areas served to constrain development of viable infrastructures that may have excelerated growth for the entire race, sort of the &#34;Dubois vs. Washingtion&#34; argument.<br /><br />Dependence on the &#34;old guard&#34; of the Upper Class, is one of the book's unfortunate deficiencies. Graham's approach is unavoidable in order to provide an accurate sense of history but regrettably, he also implied a sense of superiority and superficiality that I found a misrepresentation of the elites in their entirety. In numerable instances, the external factors that may have influenced choices in educational, residential and economic areas were under-emphasized, leading to an erroneous inference that discriminatory practices of the time were less of a factor than experience would indicate. Dependence on the venerable further placed greater importance on attitudes formed as a reaction to the era, attitudes not easily nor expeditiously modified with increased opportunities in later years, attitudes not nearly as prevalent among younger, more enlightened Black elites today.<br /><br />Demonstration of &#34;Cross-pollination&#34; among fraternities and sororities, organizations like Jack and Jill, Links and Boule' was essential to his study however reiteration of biographical information concerning each person whenever their names appeared was monotonous and worse, tedious. At times, the text read like the book of Genesis, and in this case, that's not a good thing.<br /><br />OUR KIND OF PEOPLE has proven to be a work of controversy as it shows bigotry, elitism, and classism are not endemic to any single racial group. Unfortunately, the book leaves the impression those values are as pervasive now among the &#34;Elite Black&#34; today as they may have been forty years ago.  Issues relating to complexion are yet a stigma, however depth and tone of one's melanin is not the same constraint it was in the 30s and 40s. Graham allowed the fixation to fester at the end of the book as a larger concern than present attitudes indicate.<br /><br />I recommend reading the book but with an analytical mind.cate.  I recommend reading the book but with an analytical mind.	2001-04-17
US	45192057	R5W2P1ACXV9J0	0812576403	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Who is watching me write this...and why?	I think the best science fiction compels you to contemplate the possibilities. With THE LIGHT OF OTHER DAYS, Arthur C. Clarke and Stephen Baxter have written a book that is terrifying.<br /><br />My humanities-based education does not offer the expertise to determine if the 'hard sci-fi' component of the book is adequate or accurate enough for those who focus on that aspect of the genre. My primary concern is not to have my luggage suspended in the time/space continuum. OTHER DAYS is speculative social commentary in the most classical sense, set not too far in the future. It poses the question of the exigencies relating to the elimination of all privacy, where the only security from your peers' inquisitiveness is non-verbalization of one's thoughts and considerations. It looks at a world where the very basis of everything we believe about religion, morality, government, politics and any other aspect of man's existence past or present, is open to intensive scrutiny, by anyone with the initiative to look. A society where trust is no longer an issue, it is an irrelevancy because truth is the only realistic alternative.<br /><br />Neither the premise nor the story are flawless. The characters are not well developed; the vision is that of Clarke and Baxter and represents but one possibility. Devout Christians may be troubled by some sections. Yet, for me this is a tale of the human spirit, a story that must be considered in the context of existent technological advances that inexorably adjust our values.	2001-04-12
US	45192057	R1WDNEG2HKOIP5	0688160948	695550944	The Mitt Man	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heartfelt and powerfully written	With THE MITT MAN, Mel Taylor has authored a first novel as rich and resonant as the early Baldwin and the contemporary works of Wideman. In large part, it is two interdependent stories linked by commonalities in the personalities of the protagonists, James 'Kingfish' Cook, a small time Louisiana hustler, and Jimmie Lamar, a younger northern image of the former.<br /><br />The stories commence with Kingfish during the 1920s as he runs through women, liquor and card games while he pursues the next mark, who turns out to be Reverend Malcolm Cage, but not the easy pickings his drunken demeanor seemed to indicate. Saved only by his wits and a proclivity for quotation of biblical verse, Kingfish inadvertently touches a soft spot in the cagy old reverend. He soon becomes the reverend's negro protege, receiving instruction in the greatest con of them all, religion. Kingfish learns well and quickly; he establishes his own burgeoning congregation but the South being the South in the 20's and 30s, not even a man of the presumptive cloth is safe from the ravages of racism, subjugation and perfidy, when the white man does not recognize the negroes' right to honor, pride and self-respect.<br /><br />Kingfish is destined to spend life on the prison farm, where he meets Jimmie Lamar, the urbane northern hustler who plied his trade in the wrong backwater southern town - which would have been anywhere since his marks where white - and found himself serving a stretch on the chain gang. Kingfish sees much of himself in the younger Jimmie, he decides to ensure his legacy by teaching Jimmie all he knows of the religious con, a new angle the absorbant young man can manipulate on the streets of Harlem, as the adductive Father Lamar.<br />The ultimate con game takes unexpected turns, resulting in unforeseen outcomes for Jimmie, and the reader.<br /><br /> THE MITT MAN with its moving stories and delicately crafted prose belies Mr. Taylor's first novel status. This a book demanding more attention from a much larger audience.ch larger audience.	2001-04-12
US	45192057	R267Z967RM6PHG	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	12	16	N	N	It's not too late to save the rational mind	Dr. Sowell performs lasik surgery on the myopic mind. After 20+ years of indoctrination at the pleasure of the advocates of the \\"anointed vision\\" via the educational systems, scholastic and collegiate, this book is a tutorial in eradication of addled ideas. It is not, however, 'simply' a tendentious attack on the rectitude of the so-called liberal or leftist philosophy. The professor is equally as disdainful of misguided, asymmetrical policy development originating from any other location on the spectrum (As illuminated by the book, 'spectrum' is an unfortunate choice of terminology, but after 20 years the residual effects of the anointed's vernacular are slow to recede).<br /><br />\\"The Anointed\\" is dominated by liberals, and the focus here is on policy creation/policy failure resulting from their collective arrogance, but  Dr. Sowell clearly indicates the mentality of intellectual superiority is not exclusive. He provides examples of present era  conservatives and centrists who have expounded or supported views incompatible with the best interests of the \\"benighted\\" (the masses of the common man who follow the 'tragic vision'). While his presentation is centered on the last 40 years of deleterious public policy, he does not ignore the metaphysics of the \\"anointed vision\\" in the historical context. Dr. Sowell does not write in the abstract. The book is in non-technical language understandable by all, supported by empirical data, fully annotated and 'names names' of offending parties when pertinent.<br /><br />THE VISION OF THE ANOINTED is a must read for everyone affected by policy - political, economic, social - of any form. I am only regretful I spent six years longer than necessary frustrated by the attempt to slow down the carousel of political spin without this invaluable resource. It is an \\"Idiot's Guide to the what 'The Intelligentsia' believe.\\"	2001-04-10
US	45192057	R2J7LEV670R32I	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Now THIS is mommie dearest	Not the page turner of its prequel, THE ANGEL OF DARKNESS is still a really good book.<br /><br />The intrepid team has been reunited one year after concluding the last case, under somewhat contrived and only marginally convincing circumstances, this time to apprehend a kidnapper who has failed to make any demands and appears to be free from any threat of official inquiry.<br /><br />As compared to the first book, the plot is less titillating and the identity of the antagonist is known early on in what is a reasonably long text. While the bustle of New York City serves as the background, the story also involves excursions to the pastoral settings of upstate New York. In some respects, the mid-section of the book tends to mirror the slower pace of that region. Historical personalities are once again integrated. In fact, it is the appearance of Clarence Darrow that brings new energy to the middle portion.<br /><br />Carr also elects to use Stevie Taggert as the narrator instead of John Moore. Taggert's lower class status obligates a change in diction which is distracting until you become acclimated to the rhythm. Due to the nature of the story, I thought utilization of the third person narrative would have been a better choice than using any team member.<br /><br />Overall, the book is as well-written as its predecessor, but ANGEL has a few more flaws in how the story plays out.	2001-04-06
US	45192057	R2PK6W7DV3L8QF	0805053514	102147974	The White Boy Shuffle: A Novel	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Too hep for the room?	For years I have attempted to figure out whatever possessed me to major in liberal arts and now I have an answer. It was solely to prepare me to understand one-half of Paul Beatty's metaphors without encyclopedic assistance. I would have finished reading the book a lot faster if I owned a better dictionary. The condensed version just did not suffice.<br /><br />Beatty's in-your-face, phrenetic style was suffused with a seamless fluidity from urbanized vernacular to 'Oxfordian' presentation. The odyssey of the protagonist, Gunnar Kaufmann, from idyllic suburbia, to the inner city, with excursions into bused education and elite eastern academia, finally arriving at unavoidable activism, was a journey not soon to be forgotten.<br />For the majority of the book, his prose and the story hovered just slightly over the top, peppered with canny observations and frequently acerbic sarcasm.<br /><br />Many of the characterizations, particularly Gunnar's predecessors, were hilarious. The conclusion however, meandered into a hardened surrealistic phase seemingly out of context with the antecedent sections.<br /><br />THE WHITE BOY SHUFFLE is an impressive first serve. If it is representative of the pace Paul Beatty will maintain in the future, I will be obligated to upgrade my cognitive abilities to stay in the game.	2001-04-05
US	45192057	R2WM06ZMH92U46	0515130850	770652862	Chaos Theory	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Just another screenplay	I read this book a few months ago and did not like it at all. Since then my opinion has risen all the way to ambivalence. It isn't all that much of a mystery and the thrills are pretty much run of the mill.<br /><br />The story revolves around two middle class teenage boys, Jason Rourke and Dennis Monroe, who find themselves in the wrong part of Washington, D.C., at the wrong time, for all the wrong reasons. They end up fleeing the scene of drug deal gone bad  and find themselves the prime suspects in a murder case in the eyes of legal authorities but also critical liabilities in the eyes of the actual murderer.<br /><br />Sub-text to the plot involves Jason, who happens to be white, and his strained relationship with his father, a situation of teen angst not so uncommon. Conversely, Dennis, an African-American honor student, has an amiable family life but he is conflicted in regard to cultural issues, and this unfortunate turn of events makes it unlikely he will become \\"a credit to his race.\\" Into the mix Krist adds the political environment of the Capital area, the tense racial relations, and generalized government corruption.<br /><br />Jason, aided and abetted by favorite teacher with the heart- of- gold Renee, takes it on the lam for the safety of suburbia. Dennis, presumptively the smart one, is almost immediately captured and imprisoned by the nefarious antagonists. Incorporating the requisite chases, non-surprises and typical rapprochements, the story evolves and concludes as one might surmise.<br /><br />It's a super fast read because there really isn't a lot to digest. A perfect candidate for a ... cable movie.	2001-04-05
US	45192057	RXTLS8YGY0ODX	006105366X	237718280	My Soul to Keep (African Immortals series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	This one is a keeper	In her second novel, Tananarive Due shows that she is an author on the rise. MY SOUL TO KEEP is a story of sensitivity, passion, irresistible commitment, and sorrow, and a book you do not want to put down.<br /><br />By all outward appearance, David Wolde is the perfect husband and father. In fact, some friends of his wife, Jessica, sarcastically refer to him as \\"Mr. Perfect.\\" Yet David, who is known as \\"Dawit\\" by the other members of his sect, is actually over 450 years old, an immortal who has walked and lived among the mortals for centuries. The leader of Dawit's secret sect has decided this rebelliousness has gone on for too long, and he dispatches another sect member (Dawit's former closest friend) to resolve the issue, in whatever manner necessary. David/Dawit is consumed by a multiplicity of conflicting emotions and responsibilities, not the least of which is finding a way to safeguard his wife and child, particularly since this his longevity has resulted in countless repetitions of the same pattern of desertion. This time, the mortality of his mate has to be addressed.<br /><br />Ms. Due writes in an uncomplicated manner but does not condescend.  Her prose are straightforward without becoming mundane. She skillfully blends in passages that take you back in time to get some feeling for the \\"lives\\" Dawit has lived, but always maintains a coherent view of the story's critical path. My only concern and it is a small one, was the story ended in somewhat ambiguous fashion, which is no longer an issue since I understand a sequel is on the way.	2001-04-04
US	45192057	R2A2W9W645BB9E	0553576208	606595727	The Trigger	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Yeah, well...you still got beer	Politics and personal agendas aside, Kube-Macdowell and Clarke have written a pretty good book. One cannot overlook the absurb portrayal of some pro-armament characters, but the unbalanced portrayals do not detract from the central question presented by the primary storyline - what if it were possible to eliminate all nitrate based explosives?<br /><br />I only wish the book had reached a larger audience than sci-fi readers. Some of the posted opposition to it harkens back to Lewin's 1967 satirical piece \\"Report From Iron Mountain\\", where a government commission (later shown to be fictitious) recommended development of a contingency plan in the event war was eliminated.<br /><br />THE TRIGGER is nothing more than a speculative work of science fiction; at its base, the story of the accidental development of a technology that in real life may never be achievable, even if desired. Like all good fiction, this story comes from the fertile minds of contemplative people. Literature has been the locale of social commentary throughout the written history of man (of course, I haven't checked my \\"wormcam\\" yet).<br /><br />Whether you agree with the authors in this instance is secondary to examination of the possibilities associated with implementation, or elimination, of any social policy. THE TRIGGER addresses one conceivable outcome of a non-reality and it is presented in a very enjoyable manner.	2001-04-04
US	45192057	R3A50VP8OPMG14	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a guilty pleasure	Every now and then you come across a book where upon completion you comment to yourself that was fun to read but when you attempt to analyze why, you realize there is little critical justification. Such was the case for me regarding TIMELINE.<br /><br />Crichton did what I found to be a credible job of outlining quantum theory to a novice like me, at least to the point I could except the premise. His vivid descriptions of 14th century medieval France were interesting although at times the characters seemed to be lost in the background, which was just as well since little effort was spent in development.<br /><br />Overall, this book tended to drift from a somewhat cliched, time-travel sci-fi work to revisionist history of the Dark Ages.<br /><br />But, I liked it. I just cannot explain why.	2001-04-03
US	45192057	R2BS9996IKAPSP	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good beginning	This genre is teeming with novelists and lead characters that (for me, anyway) begin to blend together. With DEMOLITION ANGEL, Robert Crais has introduced a heroine who stands out from the pack.<br /><br />Carol Starkey is a former bomb squad technician, currently assigned to another division where the demons of her past, and the gin she guzzles in the attempt to outrun, them will probably lead to her demise less spectacularly than clipping the wrong wire. She is physically scarred and mentally wounded, as the result of an incident three years past where she lost her partner, who was also her lover, and a great deal of her zest for life. When another technician is killed under similar circumstances, she catches the case and is catapulted back into an arena she would just as soon avoid, especially when clues arise that indicate the same culprit is responsible. Enter Jack Pell, an ATF agent from Washington who has pursued the mad bomber throughout the country, but has a reticence about him indicating he has issues of his own. Gradually, the two investigators form a tenuous working arrangement to unmask the elusive Mr. Red.<br /><br />A very fast read, DEMOLITION ANGEL is a decent story marred by what appears to be a rushed conclusion. A number of characters, and most specifically Mr. Red, are a little too generic to this category, but the creation of Starkey still makes this hard-boiled book a worthwhile endeavor for the reader.	2001-04-02
US	45192057	R2EWSYVDMKZ7W4	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Way too bitter, Much too sweet	This book is like the No.2 pencil you have at the start of a long examination. By its conclusion, the sharp point is a distant memory.<br /><br />At the outset, Enoch \\"junior\\" Cain is a vivid window offering an unobstructed view into the depths of evil. As the central character, he is so utterly despicable there is never a question of his ultimate demise, and the interest factor is how will you be transported to that end. But somewhere along the course, his delusional state and psychopathy begin  to require a suspension of belief well beyond the extent one would expect Koontz to request.<br /><br />In the other corner, there are the protagonists, a prescient young boy named Bartholomew, who by transcendental means has become the bane of Junior's existence, and a young girl, aptly named (for this tale, anyway) Angel, who will inadvertently serve as the link between the manifestation of evil and the salvation of good.<br /><br />FROM THE CORNER OF HIS EYE is overloaded with characters, all on the righteous side of the ledger, so encumbered by overwhelming misfortune or idiosyncratic personality, you are left wondering where they find the fortitude to face another day, yet they remain so mellifluous you want to choke. It's a book that starts out with so much promise but crawls across the finish line.	2001-04-02
US	45192057	RKAO2XJMH2B70	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	3	3	N	N	That's what you get for hunting...	Under the most liberal of interpretations, I would not qualify as a devotee of Stephen King. From time to time he has served as a nice change of pace for me. I found DREAMCATCHER to be a pretty good story and a fun book to read.<br /><br />It appeared to me King borrowed from a number of others, often paying tribute along the way, but the application of his personal spin deflected any concerns about \\"I've heard this one before.\\" Two things I personally found creative were the warehousing aspect of our memory storage and the character of 'Duddits Cavell', a sort of Down's syndrome-afflicted Navajo translator of the mind-meld set.<br /><br />I really cannot tell you if King is back, I never knew he left. All I can say is this is a book that will not disappoint anyone looking for a good old fashioned \\"us vs. them\\" scary story.	2001-03-30
US	45192057	RASZZ8WXQS6VU	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Listen to every voice	It is personally unsettling to offer such a lofty recommendation for a book I really did not enjoy. However my responses, intellectually and emotionally, are precisely why LOSING THE RACE must be read - assuming under the correlations of Professor John McWhorter's premises I, as a Black American, still possess the free will to make an independent intellectual choice.<br /><br />I picked up the book after catching part of an animated discussion between the author and an orchestrated cabal of opponents on one of the morning news programs last fall.  In my view, he outlined a set of disconcerting premises regardless of where one is positioned on the ideological spectrum. Although the book has implications to most aspects of societal growth in \\"Black America,\\" the central focus is stagnated progression in the educational arena. McWhorter cites statistical data illustrating lagging SAT scores, under-performance in the classroom, trailing GPAs and non-competitive college graduation percentages, all of which he attributes in no small measure to the impact of his self-defined triumvirate of \\"cults\\": victimology, separatism, and anti-intellectualism. Much of the information provided in LTR has been addressed, under slightly different nomenclature, by authors like Shelby Steele and Ward Connerly. Yet, in as much as the encumbrances (whatever they may be) to equalized achievement remain, books like this one are of value to promote ongoing investigation of the causes, from all perspectives.<br /><br />McWhorter is specific (not surprisingly) in distancing himself from the theories offered in \\"Bell Curve\\" by Herrnstein and Murray. Obviously, the slippery slope of affirming the idea of a genetic component to intelligence is one I think few Black Americans want to tread. Unfortunately, he also distances himself from the scientific method by heavily depending on anecdotal example, which happens to be the second of my personal concerns with his work. The first is his failure to engage in open consideration of all factors contributing to the behaviors he sees a critical to the establishment of his cults. Was victimology an existing issue for Black Americans prior to the advent of Affirmative Actions programs and Equal Opportunity Initiatives?<br /><br />Admittedly, some of his points have intuitive validity for me, whereas others, like the very idea of anti-intellectualism, strike me as counter-intuitive in such a broad application. However my gut feelings are not any more conclusive than the limited sampling of his personal experiences. More scientific substantiation is highly desirable.<br /><br />Very few subjects have the ability to polarize as distinctly as discussions of race. John Mcwhorter has stepped into the fray  with a set of postulates that are engaging, but the flaws his in method leave LTR somewhat below totally persuasive. Irrespectively, the book deserves objective consideration.deration of all factors contributing to the behaviors he sees a critical to the establishment of his cults. Was victimology an existing issue for Black Americans prior to the advent of Affirmative Actions programs and Equal Opportunity Initiatives?    Admittedly, some of his points have intuitive validity for me, whereas others, like the very idea of anti-intellectualism, strike me as counter-intuitive in such a broad application. However my gut feelings are not any more conclusive than the limited sampling of his personal experiences. More scientific substantiation is highly desirable.    Very few subjects have the ability to polarize as distinctly as discussions of race. John Mcwhorter has stepped into the fray  with a set of postulates that are engaging, but the flaws his in method leave LTR somewhat below totally persuasive. Irrespectively, the book deserves objective consideration.	2001-03-28
US	45192057	R24OKX1734LKVS	0425180964	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Resharpen the knife	Customary Clancy and that is the conundrum. Like every other book in the Ryan collection, THE BEAR AND THE DRAGON is an account of what could happen. (In this instance, the threat Chinese adventurism into a de-clawed Russia brings to international security and stability.)<br /><br />As any long time reader should expect, there are multiple at-surface-value unrelated events eventually commencing to merge somewhere near the midpoint of this 1028 page volume. There is a liberal mix of espionage and covert operations, with the lengthy, but meticulous, descriptions of technological battlement available in the U.S. arsenal. Anyone looking for a wide range of complex multi-dimensional characters should look elsewhere. Such character development has never really been a focus of this series and there is little deviation here.<br /><br />For me, the problem has become one of familiarity and freshness. Clancy has always written in a present time context with an eye toward prominent political and economic issues. Real time, real life plausibility enhanced my ability to accept his premises. BATD is not centered on what I perceive to be a legitimate threat to U.S. or international security. That said, the conclusion although not unexpected, left me feeling unfulfilled. My marginal dissatisfaction is neither based entirely on plot unbelievability, nor necessarily did I find content and style disconcerting. By and large, BATD does not detour from what I anticipated, and THAT has become the problem.<br /><br />As the leader of the free world, the protagonist, Jack Ryan cannot reasonably be expected to remain as singularly focused as he was portrayed in each book - where he appeared as the central character - prior to EXECUTIVE ORDERS. As president, his beliefs are part of the story. The philosophical positions of his opposition (whether Clancy supports or disagrees, whether they are politically correct) are incumbent to crafting an intriguing story line. It's simply not precisely the same focus as the initial books in this series, like RED OCTOBER or THE CARDINAL.<br /><br />On one level, the series could be re-energized by identification of threats of greater feasibility and probability, or it just might be time to pass the lead character baton to Ding Chavez and get back to the espionage and attention to technological detail that originally made me seek out each of the newest releases as soon as they were available.e same focus as the initial books in this series, like RED OCTOBER or THE CARDINAL.<br /><br />On one level, the series could be re-energized by identification of threats of greater feasibility and probability, or it just might be time to pass the lead character baton to Ding Chavez and get back to the espionage and attention to technological detail that originally made me seek out each of the newest releases as soon as they were available.	2001-03-27
US	45192057	RCKYR9WO9UY0H	1575666162	841256232	High Hand (Martha Chainey Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	What's next for Martha?	This story of a long-legged ex-showgirl, currently making a living as sub-contracted courier for Las Vegas casino bosses is ...okay.<br /><br />It is fast-paced with a moderate degree of action as the self-reliant protagonist, Martha Chainey, finds herself suspected of having personally engineered the heist of a multimillion dollar package. She has 72 hours to recover the intercepted delivery or suffer the usual and customary consequences for anyone in her line of employment who comes up short. The story has a screenplay feel as Martha scrambles around California locations, Indian Reservations, and the less glamorous sides of Las Vegas in search of the perpetrators while attempting to stay a few steps ahead of the lunatic casino muscle shadowing her every move.<br /><br />In essence, there is not one sympathetic character in the mix of bad guys and \\"less\\" bad guys. The sidelight of the competitiveness between traditional casino owners and the Native Americans is an interesting plot line although the Indigenous were a bit too stereotypically stoic for my taste.<br /><br />HIGH HAND is an all right read.  There just are not any surprises.	2001-03-25
US	45192057	R2P83KRXRL28TT	0684872919	375424987	For the Love of Money : A Novel	Books	1	1	1	N	N	If you value your money, don't buy this book	In a word, VAPID.<br />If you just have to find out what became of Tracy: borrow the book from an uninformed friend; borrow it from the library; or peruse it in a bookstore because,<br />in the final analysis, you will not care.	2001-03-25
US	45192057	RZDSLCO19R177	0375705902	875193537	Slapboxing with Jesus	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Shadowboxing with legends	SLAPBOXING is a collection of inter-related, but largely independent, short stories centered around life in NYC, spanning the last three decades. The scope of the works presage greater thing to come from Victor Lavalle, particularly once you get by the hype and ignore the comparisons.<br /><br />I had to reread the stories - it's reasonably quick read - because my response after the first completion was \\"so what?\\" I realized I had approached this often dark and somber assortment with expectations of discovering some modern era consolidation of Wright/Ellison/Hughes. Victor Lavalle is none of them, nor should he be. But this collection provides every indication he will carve out a separate and distinct niche.<br /><br />Overall, the stories are good, in fact, very good. \\"Ancient History\\" with its' creative utilization of blended narration was my personal favorite. The themes are not necessarily new or unique, especially if you are cognizant the real fictional aspect is in the assignation of characters rather than the events described which are repeated day after day, decade after decade.<br /><br />I found the appeal to be in the construction and composition rather than what he had to say. Every writer need not be cathartic and there is little to uplift your spirit in this collection. It is the stark yet incisive style that is most compelling.	2001-03-25
US	45192057	R1XF4GL67AOIIU	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I've been converted	In this story of the urgent search for a serial killer who preys upon young male prostitutes, THE ALIENIST transports you into the wretched bowels of Lower Manhattan, where you are confronted by all of the depravity imaginable. It is the late 1890s and you know you are physically present, an unacknowledged member of the investigative unit headed by alienist (psychologist) Lazlo Kriezler. Instead of John Schuyler Moore, another unit member and reporter for the New York Times, you who have the responsibility of recounting the story. You are present for the grueling autopsies. You look on in bemusement during the verbal jousts between the self-assured Kriezler and the bombastic police commissioner, Teddy Roosevelt. As forensic techniques and psychological theories now accepted as commonplace are developed, you assist in formulation.<br /><br />Caleb Carr has so skillfully crafted the account you tend to suspend awareness it's a period piece only written in the prevalent style of the era. Suffusion of archaic terminology only serves to enhance the impact. No less appealing are the captivating descriptions of every salient detail, from the deplorable conditions in a back alley tenement or the odorous emanations of a livery dependent society, to the opulent architecture of the burgeoning commercial district of 19th century Manhattan. At first glance, the extensive verbiage (it's addictive) seems oppressive until you recognize how integral it is to the story, meanwhile the pages fly by so quickly the length of the book becomes an afterthought.<br /><br />Even if you are customarily adverse to period pieces, give this one a try. Like me, you just might adjust your preferences.	2001-03-24
US	45192057	R2V072L25LT031	0375401229	840637172	Tuff	Books	5	5	5	N	N	If you ask me, Beatty is batting 1.000	Evidence of a sophomore slump is nowhere to be found with TUFF. In my view, Paul Beatty has climbed a rung or two beyond THE WHITE BOY SHUFFLE.<br /><br />The corpulent street-wise protagonist of TUFF, Winston \\"Tuffy\\" Foshay, is introduced as a young man without an obvious plan getting by with his wife and son through wits, brawn and an affinity for art house cinema. Immediately after a narrow escape from the hereafter while earning his keep as enforcer for drug dealers, Tuff surmises he needs an alternative future strategy. By default and convenience rather than commitment or genuine desire, he decides to run for City Council. Gradually, in spite of all of the numerable objections he is able to muster, you  sense slowly but steadily Tuff is beginning to care about his environs.<br /><br />As events unfold, you meet his eclectic assortment of friends, relatives and external influences, most prominently the multiply-challenged best friend Fariq, a hustler who under different circumstances would prosper downtown on Wall Street; Tuff's forever radical father; the opportunistic but incongruent \\"Big Brother\\" Rabbi Spencer Thockmorton; and surrogate mother/mentor Mrs. Nomuri.<br /><br />At times farcical, primarily serious, and wholly relevant to any inner city - this time it happens to be NYC - TUFF is a \\"The Candidate\\" with a spin. Beatty clearly understands sometimes less is indeed more, so the similes and metaphors so prominently dispensed in SHUFFLE are less evident, the erudite references are likewise diminished. However, from beginning to denouement the story has greater cohesion than his first novel with no loss of witticisms, sarcasm, cynicism or any shortage of astute observations.<br /><br />Whereas SHUFFLE was a punch to the gut, TUFF is more of a tap on the chin.	2001-03-24
US	45192057	R3ENLGXX3Y755S	0684872838	122291349	The Fisher King: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A luminescent gem	THE FISHER KING is my first encounter with Paule Marshall. In general, her subjects have not automatically appealed to me. I was enticed by the jazz component I noted in a magazine review. As I read the book, I came to appreciate the uncomplicated, crisp writing style. It will not be my last visit to her works.<br /><br />This one focuses on the arrival in New York of a French born  grandson, and namesake, of Sonny Rett Payne, a jazz pianist who emigrated to Paris with his wife Cherisse, decades earlier. Sonny, the younger and his guardian/surrogate mother Hattie, another expatriate, have been coaxed to the US by his grandfather's brother, Edgar, to attend a memorial concert in honor of the boy's grandfather. While Jazz and the music culture are background components, this is a story about the complexities and estrangements of family relationships where it seems the child will serve as the unifying instrument between the historically opposed branches of his family.  On either side, there is first and foremost a headstrong, idiosyncratic great grandmother, each of whom wishes to subtly prevail in the competition for the boy's affections.<br /><br />My criticism, and it is slight, is the denouement is somewhat unsatisfying.  Whereas the body of the text seems so well thought out and painstakingly developed, the story tends to stop without reaching an apex, or for that matter, a nadir. Nevertheless, THE FISHER KING is a pleasant reading experience while worth whatever time you have to devote to it.	2001-03-23
US	45192057	R1N43XMVKTKOD4	0060927267	982558758	The Between	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Alternate realities	As it so often happens, I was introduced to this author by a later book, MY SOUL TO KEEP. While not necessarily a mistake, approaching the two books in inverse order could be slightly disappointing, as the second is a superior achievement.<br /><br />That said, the flaws in THE BETWEEN are few as far as I could tell. The storyline is inventive and competently written. It reminded me, quite favorably, of many Twilight Zone episodes penned by Rod Serling. The story of Hilton James and his lapses into what appears to be dementia are so effectively crafted I was never completely confident what was real and what was imagined, or vice versa.<br /><br />It causes to question your own perceptions of reality and what is truly the state of consciousness.	2001-03-23
US	45192057	R23AABM788SBUH	1582341044	897996697	Drop: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Marketing Works!	I was drawn to this book by its unique and eye-catching jacket. I'm glad I was. DROP might be a debut novel but Mat Johnson is no novice author. From the cynical opening to the story's end, this is a book of laugh-out-loud humor, often eliciting empathetic nods of agreement but always offering observations that are too, too familiar. In some respects, writing a synopsis seems unfair, as though I am denying subsequent readers the opportunity to experience Johnson's incisive skill without foreknowledge.<br /><br />However, sometimes a hook is required:<br /><br />Chris Jones, a 31 year old recent college graduate is desparate to reach two objectives, escape the desolate existence so many others endure in Philadelphia and to find a job, which of course, will facilitate the first. Through happenstance and creativity, he manages to land a job in London, a city that turns out to be everything he was seeking, and equally as important, not Philadelphia. But his short-lived fragile degree of success comes tumbling down around him when his boss/mentor, David, dies suddenly. Chris, unable to find other employment in London and abandoned by his opportunistic girlfriend, soon finds himself back in Philadelphia, a couple of rungs lower than when he left, trapped in feelings of depression and surrounded by an menagerie of characters he had hoped to soar away from.<br /><br />How he turns himself around is inspired and to a degree, inspiring, although some \\"moral\\" parable of self-sufficiency is not the core storyline. It's Johnson's superlative pace and his inventive use of metaphor that will keep you turning the pages and after reaching the conclusion, awaiting his next book.	2001-03-23
US	45192057	R1UAGSSPWQVQKT	0679433740	331831848	Paradise	Books	5	11	17	N	N	I am not capable of the review this book deserves	For most readers, literary selectivity is function of variable tastes. In some instances even with an author you may have enjoyed in the past, that author's choice to experiment with different writing styles, exploration of new subject matter or the reader's evolving preferences may result in a less than favorable experience with a particular book. I also believe an author's growing popularity and reputation tends to attract a number of readers who would not normally include that author on one's reading list.<br /><br />I find my myself bemused by the swath of less favorable reviews of PARADISE as I consider it one of the very best I have read in a long time. I do not purport the book is an easy read but I'm equally as certain Ms. Morrison never set out to write a summer poolside \\"light reading\\" effort. The book demands consideration and contemplation as she infuses such a wide range of issues -  moral, sociological, theological, political, economic, among others - I thought it was way too short.<br /><br />In the main, PARADISE recounts the history of a close knit African American community in the town of Ruby, Oklahoma, and the  convergence of events leading up to a tragic conflict with the peculiar, possibly occultist transients inhabiting a functionally  abandoned convent 17 miles outside of town. It is tale of displacement and migration; of an egalitarian plan that devolved into status and class; of the dangers of xenophobia and misplaced prejudices, and those descriptions only brush the surface of the book's themes. It is also a story of escapism and the search for security; of people seeking non-judgmental support and social acceptance.<br /><br />PARADISE illuminates all of Toni Morrison's literary talents at her best and is one of the limited number of books that can ever reach the status of timeless classic.	2001-03-22
US	45192057	R1D53K5BGPUDPF	0374246262	591697846	Rails Under My Back	Books	3	13	15	N	N	A bumpy ride...	Here is a newer author who has demonstrated his voice is one that will be discernible in the overpopulated choir of modern writers.  I just hope I get some clue as to what he is attempting to convey. I read the book slowly and carefully, very slowly and very carefully. I made copious use of the genealogical chart... as if I had a choice. Similarity in names among members of the extended family impeded my progress at several junctures. I tried to defer a final opinion until I had taken the time to re-evaluate, however the end result remained unchanged, confusion, with frustration a photo-finish second.<br /><br />Without question, Jeffery Renard Allen is an up and coming wordsmith. He has the capability to evoke imagery of crystal clarity yet I found myself in a state of flux as to why I had been suddenly transported to a new time, place or generation. As far as I could tell and believe me, I read page by page, RAILS UNDER MY BACK is at its core the story of the interdependency, aspirations, and failures of two doubly-bound families (brothers married to sisters) in a large northern city, some contrived amalgam of New York and Chicago. In all things relevant the rail system which I saw as a metaphor of family ties, was the instrument of definitive influence. The train/subway/elevated are equally a method of escape and the locus of security.<br /><br />The book, set primarily in the 1970s, flows seamlessly from city to city, generation to generation, reality to surreal, and that in fact is one of the problems. Give me at a subtle clue we are moving on. I am not inferring the transitions were haphazard in placement but they were not effectively introduced nor conducive to the reader's enjoyment.<br /><br />RAILS is not oppressively long but it is a challenge to read. Regrettably, the end of the trip does not justify the rigors of the journey.	2001-03-22
US	45192057	R2B83EFRQ5L5L6	0679463321	565707898	Killing Time	Books	3	4	5	N	N	It's a novel, People...	KIILING TIME was recommended to me by a friend who had read and enjoyed The ALIENIST. On that basis I picked it up without previewing any reviews and I'm glad I did. Conceptually, the story reminded me of THE LIGHT OF OTHER DAYS by Clarke and Baxter which comparatively, I have to admit is a superior work although it has its own failings. The point is one reader's 5 star can be the 1 star of another. For those who lament this is \\"the worst book ever,\\" I'm extremely envious they have managed to avoid a truly bad book.<br /><br />To an extent,a promising concept was given less than optimal treatment, character development was underwhelming, and fantastical science was employed too often to resolve to escape storyline quagmires. However, the writing style is complex enough to hold one's interest and the book remains a reasonably quick read. No, it is not Wells/Verne/Clarke/Heinlein but very few books in this genre are.<br /><br />It's never going to be a classic but for a lazy afternoon or a long flight give it a chance.	2001-03-21
US	45192057	RGRI877PLN6E0	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Without Reservations, Read this book	Alexie's' observations and commentaries regarding disingenuous, misguided federally funded attempts at Indian assimilation and the white man's paternalistic approach toward developmental assistance are right on target. The reluctance to endorse cultural acceptance while reinforcing the cult of victimization were so painfully analogous to the plight of other ethnic groups, on numerable occasions I had to sit the book aside and remind myself he was addressing issues supposedly endemic to the reservation. This book could have been centered on any of the defacto bantustans that have evolved for African Americans or Latinos.<br /><br />Alexie approaches his core characters - members of a fledgling rock and roll band named Coyote Springs - in a fluid, easy to read style that employs ironical but often biting humor. It  captivates from cover to cover as you can't wait to discover the next set of trials and tribulations to confront Thomas (after all, he's the lead singer) and the other band members.<br /><br />Sherman Alexie should be required reading for everyone if for no other reason than to remind each of us  the plethora of  concerns presented by diverse groups are quite often universal. Displacement, disenfranchisement, and dissatisfaction are not limited to any one racial group. 'Reservation Blues' should be a staple and not just during &#34;Indigenous People's History Month&#34; whenever the powers that be, the spirit of reparations and guilt, gets around to cursory recognition of yet another ethnic group that should long since have been acknowledged as a significant fiber to the blended fabric of this country.	2001-03-18
US	45192057	R28O50O34F7W5Y	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	The literary shell game	It would be appropriate to simply state \\"move on, there's nothing to see here,\\" however I will not heed my own advice. There is little to distinguish this offering from anything currently out there from Tyree, Harris, Dickey, George, Williams and I hazard to assume a host of others I have not encountered. Frankly, BLIND AMBITIONS could have comfortably fit as the much anticipated sequel to Tyree's FLYY GIRL, in fact, it should have but that's another review.<br /><br />I'm not presumptuous enough to expect each developing writer to explore brand new territory but I do expect them to at least plant independent footsteps in the terrain.<br /><br />I rate it two stars as it is not unreadable, it simply fails to present characters or ideas that can be delineated from the voluminous works of her contemporaries.	2001-03-18
US	45192057	R3BHKQ1U5LQMF4	0802116817	381665823	Everyday People	Books	3	7	10	N	N	NEAR MISS	I can understand why this book may be compelling to those who are not: a)from Pittsburgh, b)looking for a intricately crafted story line, and most importantly c)African American. As the author notes near the end, maybe for a split second he can see what I see, but unfortunately, he fails to communicate the rich texture of the Black experience even in as wholly depressing environment as he attempts to create.<br /><br />  This book turned out to be a group of short stories centered on the daily stresses and encumbrances encountered by the Tolbert family and other community denizens in what he perceives to be  life in Black urban America. I commend him on his ability to convey emotional structure but he fails to provide adequate imagery to give the reader a sense of the physical. I have a better mental picture of Tony's ice cream truck than any of the so-called African-American members of this community.<br />  Within the Black community, characteristics that distinguish one person from another by complexion or physical features are commonplace. We only know the ethnicity of his characters by the authors' avowals and his inconsistent attempts to capture the vernacular which, by the way is not enhanced by any inclusions of \\"Pittsburghese.\\" His patois of the street strikes me like someone without language skills attempting to emulate an upper crust British accent.<br /><br />  I was also disappointed in his failure to address the impact of ethnicity in relation Harold's homosexuality. Acceptance of that lifestyle has implications in the community - across the board and most particularly in the Black church- that Mr. O'Nan avoids entirely.<br /><br />  In essence, Mr. O'Nan writes of a sense of frustration, powerlessness and to an extent, resignation that is not predominant in East Liberty. It appears to be he who is incapable of seeing beyond the walls of the busway.<br /><br />This is a competent  effort, one that merits attention as a study of the human condition, however the emphasis on the African American community is a misguided one for this writer. I would suggest \\"Drop\\" by Matt Johnson or \\"White Boy Shuffle\\" by Paul Beatty, as two efforts more successfully conveying the subleties of the urban experience.rican community is a misguided one for this writer. I would suggest \\"Drop\\" by Matt Johnson or \\"White Boy Shuffle\\" by Paul Beatty, as two efforts more successfully conveying the subleties of the urban experience.	2001-03-16
