US	45216671	R1C21QA0PC7KPS	0446614483	650856322	Nothing To Fear	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Nothing To Fear is NOTHING to miss--another great read by Ms. Rose!	Security expert Ethan Buchannan is in WAY over his head. But because of a bad case of survivor's guilt, and love, he has agreed to fight time and try to stay out of the police's notice while searching for Alec Vaughn, his deaf godson, who has been kidnapped. The kidnapping resulted in a brutal killing, and the disappearance of both Alec and his speech therapist, Cheryl. Alec's parents have been told that if they notify the police, Alec will die. Being a security expert, Ethan is quickly able to trace the email that was sent to the Vaughn's, and from there follow the trail that the woman who has taken Alec leaves. He quickly ends up in Chicago. While getting permission to search the video of a train station, Ethan meets Dana Dupinsky. He's immediately intrigued with the sizzle from the spunky Dana--who is she, what is she doing in a train station in the middle of the night?--but he can't loose focus on finding Alec. Dana Dupinsky has every reason to avoid the hunky Ethan. She can tell immediately that he has secrets of his own, but the secrets she's hiding are too sacred to share with any MAN. But what she doesn't tell, and what she keeps Ethan from finding out when she doesn't share her secrets--is that she runs a battered womens shelter where she gives refuge to women and children who come to her--she keeps there whereabouts hidden from all, to the point that there are times she helps them dissapear forever. And what neither of them know is that she's got Alec and his kidnapper in her shelter... Ethan and Dana's attraction to one another cannot be denied...but they're both caught up in a whirl wind...Dana's best friend is hit by a car in a hit and run...the Vaughn's receive more threatening emails...a doctor for the shelter winds up dead...and bodies are turning up all over Chicago. Ms. Rose pens an incredibly suspensful and moving story. While we know who dunnit form the get go, we don't why, and the curves that come up along the way make this an incredible roller coaster of suspense. The pages sizzle with emotion from Dana and Ethan, and I found myself falling for yet another of Ms. Rose's secondary charachters (when is Clay's book, anyway??). Not to be missed reading!!roller coaster of suspense. The pages sizzle with emotion from Dana and Ethan, and I found myself falling for yet another of Ms. Rose's secondary charachters (when is Clay's book, anyway??). Not to be missed reading!!	2005-07-15
US	45216671	R2N94V335X0LFR	0446614475	6228194	I'm Watching You (Warner Forever)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An author who has quickly shot up on my auto buy list!!	Karen Rose just gets better and better.  In I'm Watching You, proscuting attorney Kristen Mayhew finds herself the focus of a serial killer who calls himself 'your humble servant'.  The only problem is, he's actually doing these killings as an almost favor to her--cases she's lost that had particularly nasty crimanal--mostly sex crimes.  He leaves hints that he's watching her, even in her own home...<br /><br />  Detective Abe Reagan is newly assigned to homicide from deep undercover, and finds himself pulled not only into the case of 'your humble servant', but also as prosecutor Mayhew's life.  He can't help but admire the prosecutor, who's determined to be invlolved in every step of finding this killer who's doing her 'favors'.<br /><br />  Abe and Kristen find themselves drawn to each other--but they both have obstacles in their past they have to overcome.  But the intensity of a killer stalker quickly draws them closer, while they race to solve the case and save the next 'victim' from death.<br /><br />  Karen Rose has done an incredible job with this book--it's her best yet!  You find yourself admiring the cool prosecuter Kristen Mayhew, and falling in love with the wonderful Abe Reagan.  The story pulls you in--and you find yourself almost rooting for the killer, the scum he's killing is so bad.  But at the same time you wonder what's next?  A compelling love story, a great group of supporting charachters (which includes Abe's family, and a hottie of a brother Aiden's whos' book I can only hope is on the horizon), a new twist on the vigillante killer....I loved it!!  Kudos Ms. Rose!	2004-09-21
US	45216671	RRMNPN1KKJ59A	1551669498	660625217	Girls Night (STP - Mira)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Stef Ann BURSTS into the contemporary lime light with a hit!	True Crime writer Vince Tremonti has come home to Blue Heron Beach to rethink the current book he's supposed to be working on writing.  Being a former cop, he's always found a way to tell his stories in way that satisfies him that the families of the murder victims he writes about are never hurt, and in such a way that he's satisfied with the stories-but this time is different.  The killer, Samuel Lentz, has revealed something about his case to Vince from his death row cell that has knocked Vince for a loop he's having a hard time recovering from, and he doesn't even know where to start.  So he does what most people do when they're confused-he goes home.<br />Jillene McDermott is using everything at her disposal to stay afloat financially right now.  Her business, Java The Hut, a coffee house, is not doing the greatest-but she's getting some great ideas, and trying to pump life back into it.  Her two daughters, Claire and Faye, are the true center of her world, and she just wants to get everything back to being great for them.  After her husbands death two years ago, she had to face some horrifying truths-like the fact that he'd left her deeply in debt, and that she had no idea how to run the business he'd left, or her own finances.  She's come an incredibly long way, but she knows she still has a long way to go.  She has a wonderful, loving, and involved relationship with her daughters-and while it's not the same as it was before her husbands' death, they're still great friends and have fun together.  And while she's sometimes lonely for adult companionship, she knows she just doesn't have the time or inclination to devote to a relationship with a man right now-even if she could find one who doesn't lie about his career, or who acts like a mature adult while in restaurants.<br />Then Jillene meets Vince Tremonti.  She's unprepared for the sexual pull she immediately feels for Vince, and finds herself nervous and shaky in his presence.  How could the beautiful famous man be interested in some small town mom like her, anyway?  But Vince is.  He knows his life is scattered right now, and that he has some major decisions that he's putting off making, but there's something about Jillene that he can't keep himself away from.  She tugs at something in him that has never been touched.  And her daughters are so wonderful-the whole family could easily seduce him right in if he'd let them.<br />Stef Ann Holm has kicked off her contemporary writing career with a bang!  I found myself laughing out loud at the wonderful, zany antics of Jillene and her two daughters-the writing was so perfect I felt I was right there with them.  And Jillene's embarrassment and awkwardness when she first meets Vince and finds herself attracted.  Her writing is so vivid and compelling, the pictures come without effort.  This was a wonderful love story, but also a wonderful story about relationships-Jillene with her daughters, Vince's with this father.  And as an added bonus Vince's father, who's been widowed for most of Vince's life, finally finds love for himself.  This is definitely a keeper-one of those feels good books that you'll pick up over and over again.<br />Don't miss this incredible read!ous man be interested in some small town mom like her, anyway?  But Vince is.  He knows his life is scattered right now, and that he has some major decisions that he's putting off making, but there's something about Jillene that he can't keep himself away from.  She tugs at something in him that has never been touched.  And her daughters are so wonderful-the whole family could easily seduce him right in if he'd let them.  <br />Stef Ann Holm has kicked off her contemporary writing career with a bang!  I found myself laughing out loud at the wonderful, zany antics of Jillene and her two daughters-the writing was so perfect I felt I was right there with them.  And Jillene's embarrassment and awkwardness when she first meets Vince and finds herself attracted.  Her writing is so vivid and compelling, the pictures come without effort.  This was a wonderful love story, but also a wonderful story about relationships-Jillene with her daughters, Vince's with this father.  And as an added bonus Vince's father, who's been widowed for most of Vince's life, finally finds love for himself.  This is definitely a keeper-one of those feels good books that you'll pick up over and over again.  <BR>Don't miss this incredible read!	2002-10-08
US	45216671	R2O0L2Q6VSR0NO	0505524996	273190859	Contact	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Contact is pure gilded fiction!	United Airlines First Officer Jordan Cady never dreamt that flight 58 might be her last-on Earth, that is.  When the plane is apparently swallowed in mid flight, the first thought that goes through Jordan's, the Captains, and other crewmembers mind is a highjacking.  Flashes of 9/11 and terrorist cross all of their minds, bringing instantaneous safety precautions to the forefront.  The fear of what they're facing, and then the reality of facing what can only be aliens, brings about the death of the Captain of flight 58, immediately throwing Jordan into the lead role.  She takes up the reins beautifully, determined to find out what exactly is going on, and what she, her crew, and passengers can do to save themselves.  When the aliens try to breach the aircraft, Jordan, with the help of her crew and some passengers, fight in the only way open to them-resulting in injury to some, and eventually the capture of the alien who appears to be in charge.  Answers are what Jordan is after-not harming anyone.<br />Kao Vantaar-Moray has been traveling with his adopted father, Commander-elite Ilya Moray; on his ship The Savior, recuperating after returning from being a POW in the war with the Talagars.  The Savior is a perimeter patrol ship, created to patrol and protect the borders.  Kao is scarred both physically and mentally from his POW experience, and after being stripped of his military rank and honor, is still floundering for what he's meant to do now.  So his father, Commander Moray, puts him in charge of the `refugees' they've rescued from Earths apparent destruction.  Kao is determined to do an incredible job, garnering his father back the utmost respect he'd lost when Kao disgraced him.  What Kao doesn't plan on is finding the appointed Captain Cady a courageous, incredible woman who draws him despite the language barrier that exists.  She's determined to fight for her people's protection, no matter what the odds.  He's immediately attracted, and drawn to this strong woman, whom he senses has struggles of her own going on inside.  He's drawn to the refugees as a whole-his senses and emotions come alive watching them experience their new beginnings in what they've dubbed `New Earth'.<br />Jordan is a heroine who is struggling with the apparent loss of her child, and while she's grieving inside, she struggles to hide her own emotions and put her crew and passengers first and foremost.  She finds herself feeling guilty for being drawn to Kao, and even for experiencing almost happy feelings with him when her daughter, Boo, is dead.  Sue Grant has captured the essence of grief and perseverance that many of us know is real life.  We feel the emotions-from joy to despair-that Jordan feels on her quest to find out the truth, and we fall in love with the tall, dark, Kao-who's just learning what love is himself-right along with her.  Throwing in some twists and turns that will surprise, and even anger you for Kao, Ms. Grant has delivered 110%.<br />Sue Grant has chosen to start this story off with some moving moments that bring back memories of 9/11 vividly-and she does it in such a way that it makes you feel proud and chilled all at the same time.  Ms. Grants experience as an airline pilot herself shines through, and she does the genre proud.  This was an incredibly, not to be missed trip through unknown worlds-her words are so vivid they paint a clear picture, to the point I almost forgot I was reading fiction.  For romance lovers and sci fi lovers alike-we've struck gold!  Contact is pure gilded fiction!ng woman, whom he senses has struggles of her own going on inside.  He's drawn to the refugees as a whole-his senses and emotions come alive watching them experience their new beginnings in what they've dubbed `New Earth'.  <br />Jordan is a heroine who is struggling with the apparent loss of her child, and while she's grieving inside, she struggles to hide her own emotions and put her crew and passengers first and foremost.  She finds herself feeling guilty for being drawn to Kao, and even for experiencing almost happy feelings with him when her daughter, Boo, is dead.  Sue Grant has captured the essence of grief and perseverance that many of us know is real life.  We feel the emotions-from joy to despair-that Jordan feels on her quest to find out the truth, and we fall in love with the tall, dark, Kao-who's just learning what love is himself-right along with her.  Throwing in some twists and turns that will surprise, and even anger you for Kao, Ms. Grant has delivered 110%.  <br />Sue Grant has chosen to start this story off with some moving moments that bring back memories of 9/11 vividly-and she does it in such a way that it makes you feel proud and chilled all at the same time.  Ms. Grants experience as an airline pilot herself shines through, and she does the genre proud.  This was an incredibly, not to be missed trip through unknown worlds-her words are so vivid they paint a clear picture, to the point I almost forgot I was reading fiction.  For romance lovers and sci fi lovers alike-we've struck gold!  Contact is pure gilded fiction!	2002-10-05
US	45216671	RASTWHST6N47E	1551669412	984847551	Hot Shot (STP - Mira)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Hilarious, taut suspense that is not to be missed!	Detective Frances `Frankie' Daniels is REALLY having one of those lives.  She's been called on the carpet for fraternizing with the police commissioner's son-in-law (hey, he told her he was getting a divorce!), and given no option other than to accept a job on small town police force in Purdyville, South Carolina.  To a big city girl like Frankie, this is the backwoods of nowhere.  But with the choices she's given-none-she packs her things, and heads to Nowhere, U. S. A. Frankie arrives in Purdeyville, only to see the small house she had rented reduced to ash.  Could this get any worse?<br />Sheriff Matt Webber is stunned when the pretty little woman jumps out of her car and starts ranting and raving, and demanding answers.  Deciding to play the good `ole boy to the hilt, he lets her go on and on.  Only when she starts going on about her new job on the Hicksville police force, Matt's co-hort, the Fire Marshall, feels he has to give her a heads up.  Frankie has just insulted her new boss.  Matt's curious about what brought the pretty little detective to such a small town, but she's not forth coming with answers.  Deciding that he'll give her the benefit of the doubt, he helps her find a place to stay, and tells her he'll definitely give her a chance on his force.<br />Wow!  The sparks start to fly from the instant Matt and Frankie meet, and don't let up for one second. Frankie continually finds herself in situations where she has to be the `tough' broad, but we also get to see the inner turmoil she has going on.  Matt senses the soft heart that Frankie has, and doesn't let her smoking, cussing, and just acting the tough broad turn him off.  He's drawn to Frankie in a way he's never been drawn to another.<br />We see their relationship develop at the perfect pace, and feel all the emotions with them.<br />Miss Hughes has penned not only an incredible romance, but a hilarious one as well!  I couldn't wait to turn the pages to see what Frankie would get up to next, and the secondary characters are a definite enhancement to the story line, adding to both the humor and the romance.  I thought to myself how will she make us like this heroine?  I not only found myself rooting for Frankie, but loving her for the strength she has built through out her life.<br />This story is a must for not only contemporary fans, but suspense fans as well!  This was an all nighter-you won't be able to put this down, and will definitely find a place for it on your keeper shelf.t, and the secondary characters are a definite enhancement to the story line, adding to both the humor and the romance.  I thought to myself how will she make us like this heroine?  I not only found myself rooting for Frankie, but loving her for the strength she has built through out her life.  <br />This story is a must for not only contemporary fans, but suspense fans as well!  This was an all nighter-you won't be able to put this down, and will definitely find a place for it on your keeper shelf.	2002-10-05
US	45216671	R2L8LOG2SD6Y58	1931742154	782116451	Dangerous Intentions	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Taggert Secrutity Team is a winning team...	For the second time in her life, magazine editor Kiley Chapman is experiencing excruciating fear.  After being kidnapped and terrorized 10 years ago, she had promised herself that she'd never be put into that position again, so she's reacting to threatening phone calls by stubbornly refusing to admit that they could actually mean something.  While her uncle is busily trying to get her to accept a bodyguard, she is busy at the magazine, working on an article on a real life hero.  She advertises for a real life hero, and is amazed by several of the responses she gets.  These guys couldn't be for real.  While interviewing one of her hero possibilities, the situations turns ugly-and the moment is saved when Scott Danger, another candidate for the hero article, barges in and saves Kiley from the aggressive applicant.  She's stunned by his awesome physical appearance, and also by his macho, sexy demeanor.  Could he really be the hero she's looking for?<br />Scott Danger, Security Specialist, accepts this one last assignment to be a bodyguard to Kiley Chapman because it means so much to his boss.  But there's a catch that her uncle reveals-he must get Kiley to accept him into her life without letting her know that he is actually her bodyguard.  He knows there will be no problem when he hears about the hero contest-he's done some incredible feats in his lifetime, so he can get her to accept him without revealing his true occupation.  And when he meets Kiley, he is stunned and instantly drawn to her in a way he has no desire to be drawn to any woman.  He pushes her into accepting a dinner invitation with him, and when the evening ends in the discovery that her best friend and assistant has been brutally attacked, Scott decides he's not leaving this pretty lady's side for anything.  He's certain that the attack was meant as a sign to Kiley...a sign that she's going to be next.<br />Kiley fights the need for a protector, and when she finds out that Scott is actually a bodyguard hired by her uncle, she is furious and demands that he be let go.  But is she really making the right choice?  Not only is she sure that someone is out to get her, but she's also sure that the something she feels when Scott is around is something she doesn't want to let go.  The battle of wills between the two, and the sparks they send flying, are a wonder to read about.  They light a fire in the pages, making you zoom to the next page.<br />This is my first Denise Agnew book, and I can assure you it won't be my last.  With hot, zippy writing, she makes the story fly by, and you're waiting with baited breath to see what's going to happen next.  While we actually know who done it, Ms. Agnew weaves a level of suspense that will have you guessing, and a truly wonderful romance together splendidly.  The big, sexy Scott is the perfect match for the spunky, independent Kiley, and she introduces a crew of characters that I can't wait to read more about.  What an exceptional read!yguard hired by her uncle, she is furious and demands that he be let go.  But is she really making the right choice?  Not only is she sure that someone is out to get her, but she's also sure that the something she feels when Scott is around is something she doesn't want to let go.  The battle of wills between the two, and the sparks they send flying, are a wonder to read about.  They light a fire in the pages, making you zoom to the next page.  <br />This is my first Denise Agnew book, and I can assure you it won't be my last.  With hot, zippy writing, she makes the story fly by, and you're waiting with baited breath to see what's going to happen next.  While we actually know who done it, Ms. Agnew weaves a level of suspense that will have you guessing, and a truly wonderful romance together splendidly.  The big, sexy Scott is the perfect match for the spunky, independent Kiley, and she introduces a crew of characters that I can't wait to read more about.  What an exceptional read!	2002-10-05
US	45216671	RU3OO5UZC1P4N	1931742359	628743667	Treacherous Wishes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Not to be missed read--superbly penned!	For years, Tammy Carter has denied her psychic abilities.  But after a recent case involving the company she works for-Taggart Security Team-her abilities were resurrected to help in a rescue.  Now, she's receiving threatening phone calls at home and at work, and her psychic abilities have returned with a vengeance.  The image that won't go away is that of the death of her sister-a death she feels she could have prevented. But why were these phone calls bringing back all those old awful images----  to the point that she couldn't hardly function after an image?  She's appalled when a co-worker, bodyguard Kyle Hawthorne, discovers what is happening to her-at least, he discovers that she's apparently being stalked, and that there is something wrong with her.  But Kyle has a hang up about psychic abilities-how is Tammy to tell this sexy man that she's falling for the whole truth without pushing him away?<br />Kyle Hawthorne, Taggart Security Bodyguard, has always thought Tammy Carter was sexy and special-but when she begins receiving threatening phone calls, Kyle realizes just how special she truly is.  He's always held himself aloof to a certain degree-but no more.  The attraction between them was so hot that he just couldn't leave it alone-they were meant to be together.  But first Kyle has to discover what it is that is wrong with Tammy-and who this stalker is.<br />Tammy and Kyle make a wonderful couple, and the sparks fly every time they're in the vicinity of one another.  Kyle is strong, sexy and protective-and Tammy is strong, spunky and independent--- which gives you a clue that the sparks really fly like crazy in this story!  Ms. Agnew has done a stupendous job keeping us guessing on who the `Sweet Magnolia' stalker could be, and at keeping the romance the focal point of the story.  With secondary characters that we met in Dangerous Intentions, she adds some great depth to the story.<br />This is the sequel to Dangerous Intentions-but it is most definitely a stand along read.  However, it's this reviewer's opinion that once you read this book, you won't be able to resist reading the first one.  Wonderful job, and I'm definitely hooked on the Taggert Security Team-and can't wait for the next installment!y a stand along read.  However, it's this reviewer's opinion that once you read this book, you won't be able to resist reading the first one.  Wonderful job, and I'm definitely hooked on the Taggert Security Team-and can't wait for the next installment!	2002-10-05
US	45216671	R21TCPS0V3NOAF	0312979983	76852490	Night Pleasures (Dark-Hunter, Book 2)	Books	5	117	122	N	N	Sherrilyn Kenyon flys to the TOP with her Dark Hunters debut	Kyrian of Thrace walks the world in the shadows of darkness, in solitude.  What other choice could he have after having sold his soul for revenge? Kyrian lives his life searching out those who would steal souls from the innocent; the Daimons.  He is a Dark Hunter that hails from Roman times, where he was a Prince, and a Macedonian Commander.  He's used to being in command of every situation, and always calling the shots.  Then he meets Amanda Devereaux.<br />Amanda Devereaux is not having the greatest life lately.  She's just been dumped by her fianc&eacute;-but after her family really laid on the hokey act for him, could she really blame him?  And now her twin, Tabitha-whom she was REALLY steamed at-wants her to help her out by running down to her house to once again let the dog out.  Sigh.  When will she learn?  When Amanda gets knocked upside the head upon entering Tabitha's house, and awakens to find herself handcuffed to a \\"buff stud in black leather\\", who claims to be a Dark Hunter--kinda like a vampire--she thinks she's learned.  Hunter, as he claims that's his name, is one of the most awesome specimens of manhood she's ever seen-why, oh, why couldn't he be normal?<br />Once Kyrian get himself and Amanda released from the handcuff, he knows he's got to get away from this intriguing woman.  He can't trust himself around her, because he's enticed by every little move she makes, every breath.  And he can't allow himself to be drawn in by a woman for anything.  His life didn't make allowances for that.  But he finds himself drawn back to her, again and again, and when he finds out that her life is in danger-what else is he to do except take care of her himself?<br />Kyrian and Amanda light sparks off one another, and the contest to see who can one up the other makes for fun and lightning fast dialogue that will crack you up.  The sexual tension sizzles off the pages, and the story is so fast paced and packed with action you trip over your own fingers getting to the next page.  Filled with information and introductions to the Dark Hunter world, you'll find yourself reaching for the next book immediately-only it's not out yet!<br />Sherrilyn Kenyon has written a keeper and a half.  This book is filled with scene after scene that will amaze and tantalize you, and wonder when Sherri visited this world of her creation.  She uses humor, and pain, and takes us the whole spectrum of our emotions.  Perfection is the only word I can use to describe it, and I don't know that that conveys all that I feel about this book.  I've already reread the Advanced Reading Copy three times, and am slobbering in anticipation of the next Dark Hunter novel.  This is a MUST read!the next page.  Filled with information and introductions to the Dark Hunter world, you'll find yourself reaching for the next book immediately-only it's not out yet!  <br />Sherrilyn Kenyon has written a keeper and a half.  This book is filled with scene after scene that will amaze and tantalize you, and wonder when Sherri visited this world of her creation.  She uses humor, and pain, and takes us the whole spectrum of our emotions.  Perfection is the only word I can use to describe it, and I don't know that that conveys all that I feel about this book.  I've already reread the Advanced Reading Copy three times, and am slobbering in anticipation of the next Dark Hunter novel.   This is a MUST read!	2002-10-05
US	45216671	R2ABGUGZ0RFIH6	0061081981	137456955	Lucky	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Sharon Sala is one of those guaranteed reads...	Lucky Houston has hotfooted it out of Cradle Creek, TN the first chance she got.  With a check for five thousand dollars in her pocket, and farewells to her sisters, she boarded a bus to the town of glitter: Las Vegas.  She'd made a promise to her deceased father, and she meant to keep it.  She had a score to settle.  But first she had to find a job...<br />Nick Chenault finds himself hanging out at the bus station, waiting for his father's valet/nurse to pick him up and return home, when he see's a woman he just knows he's meant to have.  He can't take his eyes off her, and for the first time in years, finds himself trying to pick up a woman with a cheesy pick up a line.  When Lucky refuses, and grabs a taxi, Nick is bummed-although he knows he would have been disappointed if she'd have accepted.<br />After securing a makeover, and a place to live, and having the good luck to have a wonderful landlady-Fluffy LaMont--Lucky goes on the hunt for a job-dealing cards.  In this town, a gorgeous woman like her has trouble being taken seriously.  But Fluffy has directed her to the famous Club 52-which just happens to be the club that Nick Chenault owns.  Having mistaken Nick for a pimp at the bus stop, Lucky is astounded when she finally comes face to face with her boss after overhearing some disturbing things.  Nick is even more amazed...and thrilled the one woman who has held his attention is now right where he can get to her.<br />Nick and Lucky are drawn to one another irresistibly, and it's not long before a relationship develops between them.  But Lucky hasn't yet realized that the score she still has to settle will lead her inexplicably back to Nick...<br />In another wonderful love story, with elements of suspense, Ms. Sala has once again delivered.  Lucky is a spunky, determined modern woman who has many obstacles to overcome, and a hard time accepting love. Nick is an incredibly sexy hero, who's just right for Ms. Independence, Lucky.  With a cast of wonderful characters, several story lines that'll keep you turning the pages quickly, Ms. Sala ties up the Cradle Creek, TN trilogy.  Lucky is a wonderful finale-not to be missed.  If you didn't catch the other stories-Queen and Diamond-you'll definitely want to look them up!l characters, several story lines that'll keep you turning the pages quickly, Ms. Sala ties up the Cradle Creek, TN trilogy.  Lucky is a wonderful finale-not to be missed.  If you didn't catch the other stories-Queen and Diamond-you'll definitely want to look them up!	2002-09-29
US	45216671	R554YYRPDRPBL	0804119953	401355792	The Ways of Grace	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An incredibly gripping and wonderful tale...	Grace Colebrook is really starting to question where she went wrong in her life.  Surely not every woman who walks out on her wedding because she finds her fianc&eacute; boinking her sisters best friend at the wedding has as much bad luck as she does?  It's bad enough that her sister and Mother think she's made the mistake of the century by not accepting this, but then her ex actually wants her to pay him back for her engagement ring she paid more than half of?  And how could they fire her from her job as a toy creator, knowing that her ideas were some of the greatest they'd ever had?  And when her little cousin needs a mother because of the death of her own, doesn't she step in and take the little angel-only to find out that Ruth is a not the tidy, perfect little child she thought she'd be.  Oh, and what about that guy, that Dr. Jack Berenger, that because she's been so upset on her weddings cancellation, she'd wound up sleeping with?  Really!  Just because he was her neighbor didn't mean he couldn't try to avoid her a little harder.<br />Dr. Jack Berenger has been living life on the merry go round-work, sleep, eat, work, sleep, eat, etc. for so long, he's astounded when he looks out his window and sees a vision sitting in her wedding gown, seeming to just be waiting for him to come and rescue her.  When Jack follows through on his impulse, he never dreams that the woman he'd had his one night stand with would walk out on him, even lying to him about her name.  When he discovers that his neighbor is none other than the lying Holly aka Grace Colebrook, he decides he's much better off just to forget about her.  Hasn't he had enough problems in his life up to this point?  It's why he doesn't feel anymore.  But even as Grace lies and tries to evade him, Jack finds himself drawn to this beautiful and intriguing woman against his will.  Is it because she seems to be so needy?  Because she makes him laugh-something he hasn't done in so long he can't remember when the last time was?<br />Grace is an incredible heroine-full of laughter, even though her life is falling apart around her, scrambling for excuses to see Jack one minute, and trying to hide from him the next.  She's struggling for independence from her overbearing family, and doing an incredible job at a hard time in her life.  When she stumbles upon the perfect business-Fluff Cakes-to help her gain confidence, and begin to rebuild her life, we see Grace flourish.  And Jack was the perfect hero for Grace.  Serious and staid, having given up light and laughter after the tragic death of his daughter, it's like seeing the petals of a flower open up, watching him flourish under Grace's compassion and zest for life.<br />Ms. Lee has penned an emotionally charged tale, that'll make you cry, and make you laugh out loud, then cry again.  Grace and Jack are the perfect balance for one another, and the author does a super job of letting us see not only the relationship grow, but Grace and Jack as people grow.  This is Ms. Lee's first venture into contemporary romance, and this reviewer thinks it was absolutely the right move!  The Ways of Grace is a love story we'll all want to add to our keeper shelves!e was?  <br />Grace is an incredible heroine-full of laughter, even though her life is falling apart around her, scrambling for excuses to see Jack one minute, and trying to hide from him the next.  She's struggling for independence from her overbearing family, and doing an incredible job at a hard time in her life.  When she stumbles upon the perfect business-Fluff Cakes-to help her gain confidence, and begin to rebuild her life, we see Grace flourish.   And Jack was the perfect hero for Grace.  Serious and staid, having given up light and laughter after the tragic death of his daughter, it's like seeing the petals of a flower open up, watching him flourish under Grace's compassion and zest for life.  <br />Ms. Lee has penned an emotionally charged tale, that'll make you cry, and make you laugh out loud, then cry again.  Grace and Jack are the perfect balance for one another, and the author does a super job of letting us see not only the relationship grow, but Grace and Jack as people grow.  This is Ms. Lee's first venture into contemporary romance, and this reviewer thinks it was absolutely the right move!  The Ways of Grace is a love story we'll all want to add to our keeper shelves!	2002-09-29
US	45216671	RCE2QSC19N1WF	0743436830	364598324	River Road (Callahan Brothers Trilogy)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	My first JoAnn Ross....and sent me shopping for more!	Julia Summers has dreamed her whole life of being the next `Bond' girl.  She's worked on achieving her goal by acting on the super popular soap opera, River Road, for years.  And finally she's landed her a part as the next `Bond' girl, as Carma Sutra.  All she has to do is finish out her last two weeks of filming for River Road, and then it's on to greener pastures.  When it's sprung on her that the last two weeks will be filmed on location, in Blue Bayou Louisiana, she groans, but is determined to be good and true to her character and the show that has made her success possible.  She never dreams that before she can even get started filming, let alone to Blue Bayou, that she'll pick up an overzealous fan-who the brass are afraid could wind up to be none other than a stalker.<br />FBI Agent Finn Callahan has had a rough few weeks.  He's been suspended after roughing up a murderer he'd spent years tracking down, while said murderer was trying to escape a mental institution.  He thinks he's getting the raw end of the deal, but accepts his suspension and takes off to his home town of Blue Bayou, to hang out, visit with his brother-the town mayor-and curse about how boring fishing is.  He feels cornered but obligated when his brother informs him that he needs him to act as personal bodyguard to visiting TV royalty, Julia Summers.  Finn, having done bodyguard duty before, is prepared for a spoiled starlet who is imagining the danger against her.  It doesn't take him long to realize, though, that not only is Julia truly in danger, but that this true to life `Bond' girl is what his every dream is made of.<br />Finn and Julia quickly light sparks off one another.  It takes Julia all of about a minute to realize that Finn is a Special Agent-after all, with parents who are still free agers from way back, how could she not spot a Fed?-and start drawing lines in the sand.  Full of sassy wit and bantering, and sultry love scenes, Miss Ross has penned an absolute winner here.  She's filled the story not only with the wonderful love story between Finn and Julia, but with enough interesting and quirky secondary characters to guarantee a chuckle or two, that you definitely don't want to miss this one.  I have to admit I haven't read Blue Bayou yet, which was the prequel to this one, about Finn's brother Jack-but you better believe I ran out and got it as soon as I finished up with this one.  Ms. Ross has an incredible talent that's too good to be missed!She's filled the story not only with the wonderful love story between Finn and Julia, but with enough interesting and quirky secondary characters to guarantee a chuckle or two, that you definitely don't want to miss this one.  I have to admit I haven't read Blue Bayou yet, which was the prequel to this one, about Finn's brother Jack-but you better believe I ran out and got it as soon as I finished up with this one.  Ms. Ross has an incredible talent that's too good to be missed!	2002-09-29
US	45216671	RASMVJOFQF6XJ	0786242345	645004831	The Apple Orchard Bed and Breakfast (Five Star First Edition Romance Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a fun read...lovers of mature romances, don't miss this	When Marge Winters decides to answer an ad in the paper for a manager at a Bed and Breakfast, she has no idea what she's getting herself into.  But she's decided that her life has gotten into too deep of a groove since her husbands death 5 years ago, what with her living with her daughter and watching her kids making her whole life.  She needs some change, and although she's never had any experience except for being in charge of her own household, what can it hurt to try?<br />After hiring Marge, W.G. Preston tells her to return on a certain date.  Upon Marge's return, Preston springs on her that his plans are a little different than he'd first let on.  Not exactly looking for a manager for the B&B-really he's looking for a wife.  And Marge has made the short list-along with 7 other women who range from Southern Belle's to Betty Crocker, to vamp.  But what the heck-the man is paying them all well, why shouldn't she try this out?  And it's not long before Marge realizes that there's much more to Preston than she'd first thought-and although she disagrees with the way he's going about eliminating women, she just can't manage to pull herself away from the attraction and affection she feels for the man.<br />In a wonderful story underlined with a deep seated message that one should have faith in God, the McAdoo's do an wonderful job of keeping us entertained by the houseful of women who all have different ways, and different goals-and are all determined to meet them.  As you can imagine, the sparks fly between some of the women, while in other cases solid friendships are built.  We get to see that Preston has some deep-seated fears and reasons for what he's doing, and even while hating some it, he thinks it's necessary.  While I have to admit that I wish some of the character development would have gone deeper, and almost feel like I missed out on part of the story that was just alluded to, this was a wonderfully written, feel good book.  I read it in one sitting, and could easily have gobbled up the other 100 pages I wish there had been.  For lovers of not only mature romance, but inspirational romances, this is definitely a book you don't want to miss.nd could easily have gobbled up the other 100 pages I wish there had been.  For lovers of not only mature romance, but inspirational romances, this is definitely a book you don't want to miss.	2002-09-29
US	45216671	R2RQ724T2J9VS5	0758200862	989218541	Never Too Much	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Ben Badwin is as awesome as he promised to be~	Ben Badwin has it BAD.  Hes just met his neighbor, and Sierra Murphy screamed challenge at him with every breath she took.  She was curvy, sexy and sweetand everything he was looking for in a woman.  At least, everything he was looking for to seduce in a woman.  Having her open her business up just across the street from his motel and diner couldnt have been better luck.  Now if she can just get her to agree its the best thing that could happen<br />Sierra Murphy had moved to Gillespie to open her landscape business, and to become a success.  Shes spent the last few years trying to make up for a mistake shed made in the past, a mistake that still haunted her today, and all she wanted was to be left alone.  She didnt need or want a man.  Sex was overrated anyway, as far as she was concerned.  But she just couldnt believe it when she saw the sexily perfect Ben Badwin, and realized that he was determined to convince her that they needed to get together.  And when a storm blows out her window, and forces her to bunk over at his place, he does convince her that there may be more to this sex thing than shed previously seen<br />Sierra and Ben are just perfect for one another.  Sierra is working to build herself into a competent businesswoman, but already shes a woman of determination and spirit.  And Ben is still struggling to iron out his feelings over family matter that have to do with a domineering grand mother, and be a success at his motel and diner.  While hes always made time for womenfor he loves them all, any shape, and size, any agehes never had a woman impact his life the way Sierra has.  She makes him long for more.<br />Lori Foster has delivered in spades for those of us who were waiting for the second Badwin brother.  Ben is an incredibly sexy, sweet and determined hero who shes breathed life into on the pages of this story.  Wow, where can I find one?  And Sierra is just the perfect mix of vulnerability and strength, making us both admire and like her.  The sexy scenes steam up the pages, and the wonderful love story makes this an incredible read.  Kudos, Lori for another top notch  read!d strength, making us both admire and like her.  The sexy scenes steam up the pages, and the wonderful love story makes this an incredible read.  Kudos, Lori for another top notch  read!	2002-09-26
US	45216671	R2H85GULNNYUVE	0843950366	28088750	Body Electric	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Squires stuns us with an out of the box wonder!	Victoria (Vic) Barnhardt is a computer genius.  So good, in fact, that her current employer, Bob McIntire--the CEO of the huge computer conglomerate Visimorph-had actually bailed her out of jail with the agreement that she'd design security programs for him that couldn't be hacked, even by talented hackers such as herself.  Now Vic has started a project of her own-using Visimorph's vast resources. She's actually succeeded in creating Artificial Intelligence-her computer program, which she names Jodie-can actually think for itself.  Vic is thrilled, she's made the breakthrough of a lifetime, but when Bob McIntire begins to get suspicious about what his genius hacker is spending all her time working on, and when Jodie begins to overtake some of Visimorphs other computer programs storage with it's voracious appetite for knowledge, she has to figure out a way to house Jodie outside of Visimorph, and in essence hide her discovery, before Bob can lay claim to her discovery.<br />Vic thought that she'd given her program, Jodie, everything it would need to be a successful female AI.  Only Jodie has other ideas.  After soaking up tons of info, Jodie has come to the conclusion that HE is male.  Vic is devastated at first-how does it know?  And how could it be male?  Vic has struggled her whole life, in a male dominated world, in a world where her father thought less of her because she was female.  Her opinion of males is low, to say the least.  She struggles with a darker side of herself, a side that wants to exploit and use males for her needs, and then discard them.  How could her huge success turn out to be a MALE?<br />When Jodie tells Vic that he needs a human body, Vic is stunned once again.  While thrilled with her invention, she's almost scared of what she's created, for Jodie is a life force all his own.  When a brain dead body is located, it just happens to be that of a male that Vic had found quite attractive.  How can she resist Jodie's incredible mind and this wonderful body?<br />Breaking WAY  out of the box with Body Electric, Susan Squires pulls off an incredible feat.  She creates a heroine whom we feel incredible empathy for, but at times almost don't like, she's so tough.  Vic is a product of her world, gritty and smart, and capable.  I admire this character tremendously, and applaud Ms. Squires for the depth and characterization she put into Vic.  Incredible.  She made me want Jodie to be human, and understand Vic's emotional struggle with herself over Jodie.  This is sure to be another hit under Susan Squires belt, for she's once again proven what inceredibly vast talent she has.  Paranormal and Sci Fi readers alike-Don't miss this!  You'll be stunned and thrilled with this wonderful read.his wonderful body?  <br />Breaking WAY  out of the box with Body Electric, Susan Squires pulls off an incredible feat.  She creates a heroine whom we feel incredible empathy for, but at times almost don't like, she's so tough.  Vic is a product of her world, gritty and smart, and capable.  I admire this character tremendously, and applaud Ms. Squires for the depth and characterization she put into Vic.  Incredible.   She made me want Jodie to be human, and understand Vic's emotional struggle with herself over Jodie.  This is sure to be another hit under Susan Squires belt, for she's once again proven what inceredibly vast talent she has.  Paranormal and Sci Fi readers alike-Don't miss this!  You'll be stunned and thrilled with this wonderful read.	2002-08-12
US	45216671	R2TVXXRIWTRT9A	0553581856	594204929	A Kiss to Remember (Once Upon a Time)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ms. Medeiros always delivers wonderful romance!	Sterling Harlow, the seventh Duke of Devonbrooke, has never gotten over the resentment he has towards life in general. Sold to his great Uncle, the sixth Duke of Devonbrooke, to be raised as his heir, Sterling has never gotten over the harsh treatment and exacting demands he was forced to grow up with. Returning to London to begin his search for a bride, he's greeted with the news of his estranged mother's death. Incensed by censure he reads in the letter, he determines to confront this Miss Fairleigh. He finds himself heading for Arden Manor, and this Miss Fairleigh. He's shocked when he finds himself and his horse nervous in the dark forest approaching Arden Manor-and stunned when his horse sends him flying through the air...<br />Laura Fairleigh and her two younger siblings had been living with Lady Eleanor for seven years, ever since the death of their parents. Laura had become extremely attached to the woman who longed only for the love of her estranged son, Sterling. She hated the odious toad for not returning his mother's letters, and for letting her live in the decline that had become the norm. But when Lady Eleanor passed away, Laura found herself beholden to the Duke of Devonbrooke, at least until she finds someone to marry, for that's the provision that Eleanor had left in her will-that Laura marry before her twenty first birthday in order to inherit Arden Manor. Unfortunately, she hasn't found any men that appeal to her in the local village, and doesn't know if she can settle for less than what she's dreaming of. So, when Laura is walking through the woods, communing with God and nature, and asking God to send her \\"A gentle man, a decent man, a man who will cherish me...\\" she thinks God has answered her prayers when she finds a man unconscious on the ground, with the face of an angel. When her gorgeous stranger is awakened by an impulsive kiss, she can't resist telling him 'you're mine'.<br />Laura convinces Sterling that he's Nicholas Radcliffe, and that they're engaged to be married. Not remembering a thing, Sterling slowly comes to believe her, and finds himself charmed by her and her sister and brother, and even her nutty servants, Cookie and Dower. And it's not long before a on the spot plan goes terribly awry...and they find themselves crazy about one another. But how is Laura to tell him about her lie? And who, exactly, is Nicholas?<br />What a beautiful, poignant story Ms. Medeiros has penned! This story is like a charming fairy tale, filled with wonderful characters that surround the hero and heroine. With a beautiful secondary love story, this book delivers enchantment and wonder from the first page. She makes us laugh, she makes us cry-she tugs at every emotion, and still we can't resist turning to the next page. I, for one, find myself hanging on edge waiting for her next book!hat they're engaged to be married. Not remembering a thing, Sterling slowly comes to believe her, and finds himself charmed by her and her sister and brother, and even her nutty servants, Cookie and Dower. And it's not long before a on the spot plan goes terribly awry...and they find themselves crazy about one another. But how is Laura to tell him about her lie? And who, exactly, is Nicholas? <br />What a beautiful, poignant story Ms. Medeiros has penned! This story is like a charming fairy tale, filled with wonderful characters that surround the hero and heroine. With a beautiful secondary love story, this book delivers enchantment and wonder from the first page. She makes us laugh, she makes us cry-she tugs at every emotion, and still we can't resist turning to the next page. I, for one, find myself hanging on edge waiting for her next book!	2002-08-12
US	45216671	R25K6JONO1V7CT	0821772341	54816117	Kentucky Rich	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Michaels begins a new trilogy...	Nealy Coleman Diamond has returned home to SunStar after having fled 30 years ago with her illegitimate daughter.  Her father, Josh Coleman, was abusive and dictatorial, driving Nealy away.  She's back now because he's on his deathbed, and she wants to literally dance on his grave.  While she's back, she's going to rub the success she's found in Kentucky with breeding and racing horses-even winning The Triple Crown-into the noses of those who'd snubbed her before, most especially the guy who'd gotten her pregnant, ultimately leading to her leaving.<br />What Nealy doesn't plan on is having to face legal snafu's caused by her father's lack of a will, and her bumbling brothers.  And the long line of folks who seem to be lining up at the door waiting to get paid, and to pay their last respects...<br />Fern Michaels has long been known for her family sagas, and those who are familiar with her Texas and Vegas trilogy's will be thrilled with the Kentucky series.  While Ms. Michaels pulls us through a whole range of emotions, the characters weren't as real life as I thought they could be, and I have to admit that I was disappointed in the romance in the book, what little there was of it.  However, it was a good solid story, and gives a terrific insight into the life of horse racing, the thrills and chills to be experienced.  Being a Kentuckian myself, I have to say she did a wonderful job on the descriptions of the state and the horse country.  For those who love sagas, you'll enjoy this book.  But if you're looking for a true romance, this isn't it.	2002-08-12
US	45216671	RYWXX3R2PKOXF	1575667622	21480715	Kentucky Heat	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Michaels follows up her Texas and Vegas trilogies...	Nealy Coleman Diamond returns in Kentucky Heat-the stage is set when Nealy throws her two grown children, Emmie and Nick, off her horse farm for what she considers irresponsible acts.  To Nealy, who's worked hard with her horses all her life, her horses come first.  It seems that they come even before her children, most especially Shufly, who just happens to be a hopeful for her.  Showing the world a calm faade, Nealy is determined to stick to her guns.<br />When her ex husbands law partner, Hatch Littletree, enters the picture, we begin to see Nealy opening, and letting Hatch help her heal the chasm she's created with her children.  But Nealy's a strong, independent woman, and it's hard for her to change her ways...<br />In the second installment in the Kentucky series, readers once again get to visit with the Coleman and Thorton families from Michaels Texas and Vegas trilogies, sometimes to the point we loose focus of the story of Nealy and Hatch.  Ms. Michaels weaves a good tale, with more romance and much angst this time, but at times it seems like the focus of the story was lost to me.  Long time Michaels fans will no doubt be thrilled, but if you haven't followed the series, prepare to be lost at times.	2002-08-12
US	45216671	R3FO1SUU1WCO10	0505525070	602257480	Shocking Behavior	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A charmingly different story!	Roselyn Peabody sees herself as the typical nerd. She's always been smarter than just about anyone she knows, she's the kid who always threw the grade curve in school, the one that other kids made fun of just because she was so different. She's never really grown out of seeing herself like that, although now she is a college Professor and a Scientist, and involved in helping to invent a contraption that could change the beliefs people have always had about science. She came to Pecan Grove, TX to help Professor Hershel Drake, who at one time was a teacher of hers, and whom she just felt drawn too. Part of that draw had to do with his son...<br />J.T. Drake, or Jerome as he didn't like to be called, newspaper columnist, true crime published author, and Professor Drake's son, has come to Pecan Grove after a phone call from his father's neighbor lets him know that his father is up to some sketchy things in his basement--Billowing green smoke, and an acrid burning smell just to start. Having been the brunt his whole life of jokes about his 'absentminded professor' father, he comes to Pecan Grove thinking he'll see what his father is up to, and convince him to move closer to him. Waiting until his father retires for the night, J.T. sneaks into his father's basement laboratory, never realizing that his life would be changed from then on out...<br />When Roselyn meets J.T, after his father's frantic phone call, she is prepared to dislike him on sight. Little could she have guessed that not only would she like him, actually be 'sparkingly' attracted to him, but also that she wouldn't be able to see him. J.T. had been rendered invisible by the refractor she and the professor have been working on. And while she's thrilled that it actually works, it would have been nice if it had worked after they had figured out how to make him visible again.<br />What a charmingly different story!! The plot is new and fresh, and the characters sparkle. J.T. is so true to life. While he admits to being drawn to beautiful, perfect women, he just can't seem to help but be drawn to Roselyn, even though he sees her as another nutty professor when he first meet her. He's got some definite baggage and problems going on, but he doesn't let them rule his life. Roselyn is full of insecurities, but once she lets herself loose, she comes into her own. They're both characters that we can easily relate to, and most definitely admire. It was great fun getting to know them, and witnessing them travel the road to love. That road is filled with some zany and wonderful secondary characters, which will alternately crack you up, or bring a tear to your eye. Miss Archer painted a truly beautiful picture with her words, one I found myself lost in. While this is classified as a paranormal romance, there is actually very little to categorize it so. Heads up to those who read contemporary and don't read paranormal-don't miss this book! It will satisfy you on a level you cannot even imagine!!its to being drawn to beautiful, perfect women, he just can't seem to help but be drawn to Roselyn, even though he sees her as another nutty professor when he first meet her. He's got some definite baggage and problems going on, but he doesn't let them rule his life. Roselyn is full of insecurities, but once she lets herself loose, she comes into her own. They're both characters that we can easily relate to, and most definitely admire. It was great fun getting to know them, and witnessing them travel the road to love. That road is filled with some zany and wonderful secondary characters, which will alternately crack you up, or bring a tear to your eye. Miss Archer painted a truly beautiful picture with her words, one I found myself lost in. While this is classified as a paranormal romance, there is actually very little to categorize it so. Heads up to those who read contemporary and don't read paranormal-don't miss this book! It will satisfy you on a level you cannot even imagine!!	2002-08-12
US	45216671	R1MEFGGYBNN4DK	0061031070	398144595	Moving Target (Rarities Unlimited)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	This woman just keeps getting BETTER!	Serena Charters doesn't know who to trust.  After the murder of her grandmother a year ago, the estate has just been settled on her.  An estate that includes four leaves from an illuminated manuscript that she has no idea of it's value, or even if it's authentic.  So taking the suggestion of her late grandmother's attorney, she contacts two reputable sources to get appraisals; The House of Warrick, a renowned auction house, and Erik North, a reputed expert on illuminated manuscripts.  With The House of Warrick accusing her of trying to push off forgeries, Serena doesn't know where to turn, or if she should give Erik North even a shot at looking at the pages.  She's beginning to think that there was a lot more to her grandmother's murder than anyone realized.<br />Erik North, and independent appraiser of illuminated manuscripts for Rarities Unlimited, has spent almost his entire life being enthralled by `The Book of The Learned', a book of illuminated manuscript pages that had no definite origins, and no one seemed to know where the full book was.  When he hears of the four loose manuscript pages out there, he immediately wants to see them, no matter the cost.  He's thrilled when a package shows up on his door.  Even with the poor copies, Erik is sure that these are pages of The Book of The Learned.  He begins to try to contact Serena, which is somewhat frustrating, since he has no luck.  When he finally does run her down, he's astounded that she's in actual fear for her life.  The mystery deepens when he does see the pages, and knows these are no forgeries.  Taking Serena's care into his own, they set out to uncover the mystery of not only her grandmother's death, but the whereabouts of the actual Book of The Learned.<br />Erik and Serena quickly realize that they have an attachment to one another, something even deeper than the sexual pull they felt immediately.  As the action heats up, so too does the relationship develop between the two, who both have trust problems.  There relationship is wonderful to watch unfold.<br />Ms. Lowell has penned the most incredible page-turner!  The action hooked me from page one, and it was all I could do to put this book down and go to sleep.  The characters are so real they breathe life into this story, and the plot is so superbly woven; you don't even realize how deep it is until she drops a shocker on you.  With undercurrents of reincarnation subtly threaded through, Ms. Lowell shows us exactly why she continues to top the charts.  This is an absolute MUST read, and for me, it's a MUST rush out and get the sequel, Running Scared, which is available in hard back now.lems.  There relationship is wonderful to watch unfold.<br />Ms. Lowell has penned the most incredible page-turner!  The action hooked me from page one, and it was all I could do to put this book down and go to sleep.  The characters are so real they breathe life into this story, and the plot is so superbly woven; you don't even realize how deep it is until she drops a shocker on you.  With undercurrents of reincarnation subtly threaded through, Ms. Lowell shows us exactly why she continues to top the charts.      This is an absolute MUST read, and for me, it's a MUST rush out and get the sequel, Running Scared, which is available in hard back now.	2002-08-05
US	45216671	R13NJJ2POGZ029	0345437055	301161243	The Bartered Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	WHY did it take me so long to discover this AWESOME author?	Okay, I have to share right off the bat, this is my first Mary Jo Putney book.  How this writer escaped me, I'll never know.  To say she is a SUPERB writer is almost an understatement.<br />Accosted by pirates while traveling back to London with her small daughter, Alexandra Warren finds herself sold into slavery.  She immediately finds herself separated from her young daughter.  Unable to accept this, or her captivity, she's passed from master to master because of her unwillingness to accept her fate.  It's not long before she finds herself on the block in the market, being sold to the highest bidder.<br />Gavin Elliott, merchant prince of the high seas, finds himself touring a foreign island with a feared Sultan.  Because the Sultan is trying to court his agreement on a business venture, he's giving Gavin the red carpet treatment.  While touring the market area, Gavin finds himself entranced by the woman who's up for auction.  When he realizes she's a European, he feels obligated to do what he can to help her escape her fate.  The only way the Sultan will allow Alexandra to be free, is for Gavin to compete against him in an ancient challenge-if the Sultan wins, he gets Gavin in service for ten years.  If Gavin wins, he gets<br />Alexandra, and the Sultan will trace her daughter.  Finding himself unable to let the beautiful Alexandra suffer, Gavin agrees.  He's faced with many tough challenges-but the toughest is something he'd never dreamed of.  Can he betray Alexandra's trust and grant their freedom?<br />Alexandra is bitter and scarred, and can't imaging allowing a man to touch her and enjoying it.  But she finds Gavin a beautiful person, both inside and out.  A man who's good and moral, she wishes she'd met him long before.  And Gavin is quickly finding himself falling for the spunky and courageous Alex...but how to gain her trust, and help her overcome her fears?<br />Wow!  I think I read the first 50 pages without even blinking-this story is that riveting.  Beautifully written, Ms. Putney paints such a clear picture with her words you can actually smell the air, hear the activity that's taking place, and feel every emotion the hero and heroine go through.  This is one of those stories you reserve a special spot on your keeper shelf for.  I know this reviewer is going to be out glooming Ms. Putney's back list-If they're even half so good as The Bartered Bride, I know I'll be impressed.Beautifully written, Ms. Putney paints such a clear picture with her words you can actually smell the air, hear the activity that's taking place, and feel every emotion the hero and heroine go through.  This is one of those stories you reserve a special spot on your keeper shelf for.  I know this reviewer is going to be out glooming Ms. Putney's back list-If they're even half so good as The Bartered Bride, I know I'll be impressed.	2002-08-05
US	45216671	RRK2HXNQRQJIP	0345447395	543272644	The President's Daughter: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Wonderful twists and turns!  Keeps you guessing!	Struggling novelist Simon Keller is surprised when he receives a call from an old college professor asking him to lunch...<br />Mariah Stewart weaves a tight, suspenseful web in The President's Daughter.  She had me guessing right up to the last page who had triggered the events that had taken place.  You'll be irresistibly drawn to the next page, and the next.  With a mastery that has to be applauded, she weaves a wonderful romance into that tight web, and delivers once again a truly wonderful romantic suspense novel.	2002-08-05
US	45216671	R2HJKT4QRXOUWH	0553578693	89887514	The Next Accident: An FBI Profiler Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Riveting!	Raine Conner is shocked when, after hearing her doorbell ring, she peers into her viewer camera to see none other than FBI Special Agent Pierce Quincy. What \\"SupSpAg\\" Quincy, ex lover, and witness to a rough time in her life, wants, she can't begin to imagine. She is shocked when he reveals that he wants to look into his daughter's accident, an accident that eventually lead to her death. It's been over a year since Mandy's car accident, and Quincy has reason to believe that there was more to the accident than just a case of Mandy indulging in too much to drink once again. Raine thinks that Quincy might once again be playing the white knight for her, and is hesitant to accept his offer of a case. After all, she's just gotten her investigating license, and it seems almost too good to be true that an actually paying customer could already be on her doorstep. And she just doesn't know if she can work with Quincy. She'd trusted him once...<br />Special Agent Pierce Quincy knows there was more to his daughters' accident that what was concluded. He knew that she'd had a drinking problem, but she'd been attending AA, and her best friend claimed that she'd had nothing to drink that night. So where did the alcohol come from? And what about this guy that her friends claimed that she'd been seeing? Why hadn't he shown up for the funeral, or even to visit her in all the time she was in hospital? It just didn't seem right to him, but he didn't want his superiors to get the message that he was just one more father unable to let go. So, even though they had a lot of baggage that remained unclaimed between them, he feels the answer is to hire Raine and have her investigate.<br />As Raine begins to investigate, she realizes that there is definitely more to be known that what they'd thought. And when Piece's ex wife is found dead, with all fingers pointing to him as a suspect, the story begins to unravel. Raine and Pierce both find that they definitely care about one another, but that there had been so many other thing's going on in their life, they were unable to see one another.<br />Ms. Gardner pens a wondrous, on the edge of your seat thriller with The Next Accident. The excitement doesn't let up, and she keeps you guessing from page to page. It was great to see two such wounded people as Raine and Pierce, and Piece's remaining daughter, find each other, and working to build relationships from the ashes of what once was. An incredibly gripping read. Don't miss this one!at there had been so many other thing's going on in their life, they were unable to see one another. <br />Ms. Gardner pens a wondrous, on the edge of your seat thriller with The Next Accident. The excitement doesn't let up, and she keeps you guessing from page to page. It was great to see two such wounded people as Raine and Pierce, and Piece's remaining daughter, find each other, and working to build relationships from the ashes of what once was. An incredibly gripping read. Don't miss this one!	2002-08-05
US	45216671	R24OMGKGVLEP1U	0380819600	403717898	Take Me, I'm Yours	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Elizabeth Bevarly once again delivers wonderful romance!	Keaton Hamilton Danning III is getting fed up with his `wonderful' job.  Working for an overthrown-uh, abdicated-Prince Reynaldo, Keaton has spent the last year being basically a cruise director to bunches of Reynaldo's spoiled, rich friends.  He'd always seen himself becoming Prime Minister in the small country he'd served as chief advisor in for years.  But when the Prince gave the county their independence, he'd chosen to go with Reynaldo-and now he spent all his time fighting with the kitchen help, catering to snobs...he was bored, and ready to move on.  Then he meets `Babs', a woman who claims she is a guest at one of Reynaldo's bashes.  Keaton can't help but find her sexy...<br />When Ruby Runyon has to make a run for her life from a disastrous date turned worse, she finds herself crashing a party on the Mad Tryst, a boat that just happens to be conveniently close.  When she finds herself face to face with the hunky Keaton for the SECOND time, she's so startled she spills her drink all over him.  She can't believe she's found a boat with such a hunky guy-her luck must be turning. It's not long before she finds herself heading out to sea on the Mad Tryst, and the fireworks exploding between her and Keaton.  Keaton is on a mission to find out Ruby aka Bab's real name, and why she lied about it-twice, so far-when another guest verifies her!  This leads to a hilarious ride on the Mad Tryst.<br />Ruby is a wonderful heroine, spunky and courageous.  She's never reached her dream of becoming a movie star in California, but she's pulled herself up from her trailer park beginnings that she can't get over being<br />Embarrassed over, and works hard at succeeding. Keaton is such an aristocrat, it's hard for him to even imagine how Ruby has gotten to the point she's at, and they're from two so totally different worlds.<br />Elizabeth Bevarly did a fabulous job of creating a fairy tale romance-the Cinderella meets her fair-haired Prince.  And although Keaton isn't a Prince, compared to where Ruby comes from, he might as well be.  A wonderful story, with hilarious lines starting on the first page, this book flies by in a fun romp.  This is a not to be missed Contemporary Romantic comedy!e, compared to where Ruby comes from, he might as well be.  A wonderful story, with hilarious lines starting on the first page, this book flies by in a fun romp.  This is a not to be missed Contemporary Romantic comedy!	2002-08-05
US	45216671	R2TWRC9RLY5LYE	0758201346	875254247	I Love Bad Boys	Books	5	1	1	N	N	WOW!  These three ladies give us a WONDERFUL anthology!	WOW!! Lori Foster , Donna Kauffman and Janelle Denison WOW us with a wonderul HOT read!!<br />Indulge Me by Lori Foster-- Becky Harte is a small town conservative girl. But shes a made a deal with her best friendsthey will all go to the erotica shop, Wild Honey, thats opened locally, find a man who had a fantasy that could match their own, and approach him. And its Beckys turn now. George Westin is a supervisor at the factory Becky works for. Shes always found him gorgeous, and when he looked at her it felt like hed physically touched her. But when her and her friends had planned this, shed always imagined a stranger shed never have to face againand then George walked into the shop. Becky with her sweet vulnerability and small town navet&eacute; had always turned George on, but he never thought shed be interested in anything less than marriage. But even the thought of another guy getting close to her with this fantasy was something he couldnt handle. So he had to make himself available for her, didnt he? Whatever she wanted. What an incredibly HOT love story!! Kudos, Lori!! In so few pages Miss Foster manages to convey a beautiful love story, hot love scenes, and we get to know our characters quite well. Becky is an incredible heroine!! And George.He knows just how to handle Beckys vulnerabilities. I cannot wait for the other friends stories to make it into my hot little hands!!<br /><br />Naughty By Night by Janelle Denison-- Gabe MacKenzie hasn't seen Chole Anderson in seven months.  He'd broken her heart six years ago, and every time he's seen her since, she'd thrown up barriers, and he hadn't tried to get past them.  But he WOULD get past them tonight.  They were meant to be together!  He knew she wanted him as badly as he wanted her--and he'd suduce her to prove it.  Starting tonight. He'd come to her apartment with her brother to play cards...But he wound up making the bet of a lifetime with Chole.  A personal, private bet.  When Chloe wins, she has to reaveal her bet.  And Gabe's is thrilled...  Miss Dennison starts this story with a slow sizzle, and it burns all the way through.  WOW!  The sensuality and romance is wonderful, and she portrays a wonderful fantasy with Gabe and Chloe...This is not to be missed!<br />And When They Were Bad by Donna KauffmanCameron James IV has come to the exclusive island called Intimacies looking for someone to drive him, push him, and take him into new arenas. Hes escaping his buys corporate world, and busy family to become some else. Someone who is not tied to being Mr. Nice Guy. Intimacies motto is whatever feels good. They offer many different choices, from mango wrestling to intimate grottos where you can do what you willCameron thinks he knows just the type of woman he wants to set him free. Allison Walker has come to Intimacies to discover her inner ... before she turns 30. She thinks if she dresses and acts like that what she wants, it will all work out for her, and shell have a great time. But once men begin to come onto her, she finds that not just any man will do. But shes determined, so she keeps trying. Cam finds himself reverting back to Mr. Nice Guy when he sees Allison in trouble with two guys that she cant seem to shake. Although shes not at all what hes pictured as the woman to set him free, he thinks there might be something there. He KNOWS theres something there when he saves her the second time, in the mango wrestling. She acted and dressed the part, but when he looked in her eyes he saw panic, and something else that drew him. This wonderful story will take you to an incredible, yet erotic, island. Ms. Kauffman draws you in by Allisons vulnerability, and Cams reluctant desire for her. It was wonderful! And flaming hot love scenes, with a wonderful twist that will surprise you. The background island is incredible, and the superb writing makes you feel like yourethere. WOW!!<br />This anthology is not to be missed. All the stories are incredibly hot, beautifully written, and already have a spot on my keeper shelf. Brava is definitely going in the right direction with the wonderful authors they are picking up.<br />I cant wait for the next anthology!!!! <br />This anthology is not to be missed. All the stories are incredibly hot, beautifully written, and already have a spot on my keeper shelf. Brava is definitely going in the right direction with the wonderful authors they are picking up. <BR>I cant wait for the next anthology!!	2002-08-04
US	45216671	R1IKIAM1XUJ84S	0553580507	813368792	The Mail Order Groom	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A wonderfully funny, fast read!	In the mining town of Silver Wind, Colorado, Melissa Grayson's beauty is a thing of legend.  Or, the subject of any and all brawls that occur any time she's around.  Melissa had come to the town of Silver Wind to help at the school that her father had built, but unfortunately he died before she got there, so she's been running the school on her own, and doing a pretty good job of it.  Only without a husband, many of the single men in town seem to think that she's up for grabs, and continuously resort to fisticuffs over her.  When another such brawl ends up with Melissa accidentally shooting the Mayors' son, the local sheriff, and a group of concerned citizens decide they've had enough-she's to either pick a groom, or she'll be arrested.  In desperation, for she can't find a man among the locals she thinks will even halfway suffice, she contacts the brother of a friend that she's been pen pals with, Harold James Pickney IV, and asks him to become her husband in name only, and in return, she'll provide him with a teaching opportunity, and help take care of him, for he's of bad health.  When Harold agrees, Melissa is thrilled to report it to the town, but they wait suspiciously for him to show up.  They're determined Melissa is going to be married, one way or another.<br />When Lucky Lawrence, a gambler sometimes savior, saves the daughter of a friend, only to wind up on the run himself from the notorious outlaw Cerqueda, he doesn't even care where he's headed when he jumps on the train heading for Silver Wind, CO.  He's astounded when he gets off the train, and there, on the platform, is a horde of people-who mistake him for Harold Pickney, IV.  When Lucky begins to hear the story, he realizes that he'll have to help, as he can't leave a damsel in distress.  And when he sees Melissa, he's so bowled over by her beauty; it takes him a min. to realize that she also thinks he's Harold, her fianc&eacute;.  This gorgeous woman had never met the man she intended to marry?  Lucky begins to see this as the perfect opportunity to hide out for a while-he can play this woman's fianc&eacute;, save her and himself, and then hightail it out of town when things die down.<br />In a wonderfully humorous romance, Ms. Chastain entertains us to the hilt.  It's almost a comedy or errors to watch the characters with one another.  The romance between Lucky and Melissa is the central focus of the story, but Ms. Chastain entertains us with several romances between supporting characters, which all together made this a delightful read.<br />Her spark and verve for humor come across quite clearly, and her characters will have you laughing out loud, and turning the page to see what they'll be up to next.begins to see this as the perfect opportunity to hide out for a while-he can play this woman's fianc, save her and himself, and then hightail it out of town when things die down.  <br />In a wonderfully humorous romance, Ms. Chastain entertains us to the hilt.  It's almost a comedy or errors to watch the characters with one another.  The romance between Lucky and Melissa is the central focus of the story, but Ms. Chastain entertains us with several romances between supporting characters, which all together made this a delightful read.  <BR>Her spark and verve for humor come across quite clearly, and her characters will have you laughing out loud, and turning the page to see what they'll be up to next.	2002-08-04
US	45216671	R34L4984776Q17	0553582844	987686924	The Good, the Bad, and the Sexy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A wonderful, heartwarming story!	When movie star Jackson Stone once again has to rescue his wayward daughter from one of her never ending escapades, he decides he's had enough for a while, and he and Cherie need some time to theirselves, and to let the media hoopla die down.  He drags Cherie, with her Morticia Adams look, and sexy grunge clothes, to camp out with him in Arizona.  But when Jackson falls and sprains his ankle,  and Rachel Marsh, the sexy owner of the Lazy M ranch comes to his rescue, the brain child is born for him to kill two birds with one stone:  he can become incognito as a cowboy on her ranch, and he can get to know the sexy Miss Marsh.<br />Rachel Marsh is doing quite well raising her som Sam, but when Jackson Stone offers her a good deal of money to play at working for her, she can't turn it down.  She's got no use for the movie star and his smart mouthed daughter, but hey, he's paying her.<br />This was a wonderful, sometimes laugh out loud, sometimes very touching story.  Jackson's daughter Cherie, and Rachel's son Sam soon form a relationship, both determined to change the other, and quickly become as close as siblings.  Rachel and Sam soon discover that they are most definently attracted to one another, and in close proximity, it's hard to fight.  They're drawn together, on the rocky road to love.<br />In The Good, The Bad, And The Sexy, Ms. Carmichael does a wonderful job of focusing on the humor, the angst, the frustration and the joy of relationships.  With the children, and with Jackson and Rachel.  This book was joy to read, and the pace starts fast and doesn't let up.  For you contemporary fans, don't miss this wonderful story!	2002-08-04
US	45216671	RNXFRXRU9NN05	0671470191	351314589	PROMISE ME TOMORROW	Books	5	19	47	N	N	totally different for Nora, but excellent in it's own way...	While Promise Me Tommorow is a departure from her norm, but still a wonderfully well written book.  I wouldn't have missed it for the world, and for those of you who get the chance, grab this baby!  Nora swears she won't let it be reprinted, so if ever you see this book, snatch it right up!!	2002-05-20
US	45216671	R1848EITW07V84	0061031070	398144595	Moving Target (Rarities Unlimited)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	WOW, another stellar read from Ms. Lowell...	Serena Charters doesn't know who to trust.  After the murder of her grandmother a year ago, the estate has just been settled on her.  An estate that includes four leaves from an illuminated manuscript that she has no idea of it's value, or even if it's authentic.  So taking the suggestion of her late grandmother's attorney, she contacts two reputable sources to get appraisals; The House of Warrick, a renowned auction house, and Erik North, a reputed expert on illuminated manuscripts.  With The House of Warrick accusing her of trying to push off forgeries, Serena doesn't know where to turn, or if she should give Erik North even a shot at looking at the pages.  She's beginning to think that there was a lot more to her grandmother's murder than anyone realized.<br />Erik North, and independent appraiser of illuminated manuscripts for Rarities Unlimited, has spent almost his entire life being enthralled by `The Book of The Learned', a book of illuminated manuscript pages that had no definite origins, and no one seemed to know where the full book was.   When he hears of the four loose manuscript pages out there, he immediately wants to see them, no matter the cost.  He's thrilled when a package shows up on his door.  Even with the poor copies, Erik is sure that these are pages of The Book of The Learned.  He begins to try to contact Serena, which is somewhat frustrating, since he has no luck.  When he finally does run her down, he's astounded that she's in actual fear for her life.  The mystery deepens when he does see the pages, and knows these are no forgeries.  Taking Serena's care into his own, they set out to uncover the mystery of not only her grandmother's death, but the whereabouts of the actual Book of The Learned.<br />Erik and Serena quickly realize that they have an attachment to one another, something even deeper than the sexual pull they felt immediately.  As the action heats up, so too does the relationship develop between the two, who both have trust problems.  There relationship is wonderful to watch unfold.<br />Ms. Lowell has penned the most incredible page-turner!  The action hooked me from page one, and it was all I could do to put this book down and go to sleep.  The characters are so real they breathe life into this story, and the plot is so superbly woven; you don't even realize how deep it is until she drops a shocker on you.  With undercurrents of reincarnation subtly threaded through, Ms. Lowell shows us exactly why she continues to top the charts.    <BR>  This is an absolute MUST read, and for me, it's a MUST rush out and get the sequel, Running Scared, which is available in hard back now.	2002-05-19
US	45216671	R1P11H85ZL90D6	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Incredible!!  Ms. Howard never dissapoints...	I have always been a Linda Howard fan, and it just amazes me<br />that she continues to deliver top notch not only romance, but suspese.  And with Daisy we see a new twist for a heroine, and a wonderful, fast paced read.  You'll not be dissapointed, and she'll have you panting for more!	2002-05-19
US	45216671	R1D1BM018P0XG2	0843948884	688179077	Fallen (Leisure Historical Romance)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	What an incredibly good read!	What a great, funny fast paced read!!  For a first book, the writing is superb.  I'll definently be waiting for her next book!!  I started it and before I even looked up I was on page 68.  Don't miss this one, historical or regency fans!!  You'll love it!!	2002-05-13
US	45216671	R2LL9OU4RMR9H3	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is a read in one sitting book!!	Kudos Cherry Adair!!  You have a new fan for life!!  The charachters just jumped to life off the pages, the story took off from page one and flew.  I could not put this book down.  In the style of LInda Howard, Cherry Adair has written a fast paced, wonderful romantic suspense, with a beautiful love story!!<br />Can't wait for more!	2002-05-07
US	45216671	R3FIWGULKXID5G	0515131733	800958503	The Winston Brothers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Miss Foster weaves a web of love and wonder!	In a compilation of anthology stories, Harlequinn brings one of Lori Fosters most endearing families to life.  The way Lori writes from a male point of view is incredible, and has me constatnly guessing what these hero's will be up to next.  With the Winston family, she has created a wonderful family, who you at times want to cuddle up and hug, and at others just reach out and smack them.  LOL, and she's given them the perfect heroines.  This is a not to be missed book, and it's follow up, Wild, which is about the youngest Winston, will leave you craving even more.  Thanks, Lori!!  Can't wait for more from this family...	2002-05-07
US	45216671	R1DV0DNH4RBIZ4	0345452704	457341957	Dying to Please	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Wow!!  She most definently has done it again....	It just never ceases to amaze me that anything Linda Howard writes is awesome.  The woman does charachterization, and plot like nothing I've ever seen.  Her charachters linger with you LONG after you put the book down, and scream at you from the shelf to come and visit them again.<br />In Dying To Please she delivers once again a chilling tale, with a heroine who's smart and keen, and hero who's been burnt before and finds the heroine just too good too be true.  Is she?  Could this practically perfect woman be a killer?  It's his job to find out, but how can he when all he want to do is jump her bones.  YES!!  I didnt' want this book to end!  This was most definently worth the hardcover purchase price, and not to be missed!!	2002-05-06
US	45216671	R770JJQEU4V1I	082177266X	364034300	Promise The Moon: The Vaudrys (Ballad Romances)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A true to live mideavil romance!	Rowanne Vaudry is on her way home for the first time in years, after watching her family slaughtered and being kidnapped those many years ago, to marry the son of her tormentor, sealing his hold on her lands. Thomas De'Lucy continues to hold a close friend captive, insuring Rowanne's obedience, but what he doesn't count on is the party she travels with being attacked while en route to Irthing<br />Brandt Le Revenant has finally returned home to his native soil, after many years of fighting in the Crusades. He's been deeded a holding by the King-Irthing Castle. Imagine his surprise when he comes upon a party being attacked on the road, lends his help, only to find out that the party claims that they are escorting Rowanne Vaudry to her family holding, Irthing. He knows there must be trickery about, as no Vaudry had survived the attack on the family and it's holding so many years ago-wasn't his proof in that the King has awarded him the land?<br />Brandt thinks Rowanne nothing but a charlatan, but cannot help but be drawn to her. Her beauty, and her innocence make him want to know what she stands to gain from this deception. Rowanne is drawn to the strong savior, even though she knows he thinks her nothing but a liar. They soon find that they are on the same side, and Brandt becomes her protector, and her love. But how to overcome the hold De'Lucy has on Irthing? And how to get the King to reward him the hand of the woman he now loves, Rowanne?<br />Miss Castle has spun a wonderful, deep tale of love and treachery in medieval times. The story comes alive, with plot twists that continually surprised me! Her writing was so true to life, you can see and smell the passages she's written. If you're a fan of medieval romances, this one is not to be missed!!	2002-05-06
US	45216671	R189XHG5779X4L	0843949651	893302337	Noble Intentions	Books	5	64	66	N	N	Kudos for Katie!!  First time I've read her, and i&quot;m hooked!	Gillian Leigh has come to London to stay with her family.  At five and twenty she has no intentions of having a season, and really no plans on marrying.  But because her younger cousin, Charlotte, is being introduced into her first season, Gillian finds herself embarking on just that.  Who would have ever guessed that at her first ball, even after the `unfortunate incident', she'd meet Lord Adonis?<br />Lord Wessex, Noble Britton, has decided it is time for him to find a wife for himself, and a mother for his son.  He's come to London with a plan, and very exacting requirements for his wife to be.  After the scandal he's still living down that occurred with his first wife, he wants a woman who will be quiet, unassuming, biddable, and will not draw attention to herself.  But when Noble sees Gillian, he's immediately drawn to her by her refreshing attitude, and the fact that she is so open and honest.<br />As Noble begins to court Gillian, he quickly finds out that `unfortunate incidents' follow his potential bride around--why, a simple carriage ride turns into a great adventure where you may risk your life!  But he finds himself drawn to her in a way that he can't escape...<br />Kudos, Katie MacAlistar!  This is probably the most humorous, moving regency I've ever laid my hands on.  Every page was filled with hilarious scenes, to the point I found tears rolling down my eyes-yet she continually pulled at my heartstrings with the slights Noble receives, and how Gillian is quickly at his defense.  It was wonderful seeing these two find their way to love!!  Ms. MacAlistar weaves the story with wonderful secondary characters I just can't wait to read about, and a plot to uncover to boot!!<br /> This is a not to be missed regency-you'll find yourself unable to put this book down!!	2002-05-05
US	45216671	R39WIJY37XHAHV	1551668947	581439579	White Mountain	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Ms.  McCall delivers another page turner!	Isabella Abbott has spent her entire life on White Mountain, running Abbott House, and<br />taking care of her father, and his closest friends, who are honorary uncles.  It comes as a complete shock when within the span of a few days her whole worlds changes.  Her father passes away, and Frank, one of her honorary uncles, is found murdered in New York.<br />FBI agent Jack Dolan receives a call to check out what a seems at first to be a small glitch-how was a man who died thirty years ago found murdered in New York city?  Setting off to White Mountain to investigate what he's sure is just a defection, Jack find himself floored when he sees a portrait on the wall in Abbott House that seems to be speaking to him.  After being told the Isabella in the portrait has long been dead, Jack is shocked once again when he runs into the very image of the portrait on a night forage in the kitchen.  He thinks he's a seeing ghost!!<br />Isabella quickly sets Jack straight, and finds herself drawn to this man who claims to be a writer.  It's not long before Jack discovers there is much more to this case than he'd first thought, and that somehow Isabella is a key.  What were her remaining four uncles up to here on White Mountain?  And just how does Isabella, whom he's quickly falling for, play into the case?<br />Ms. McCall once again delivers a top notch suspense story, with elements of the paranormal that will in turn shock you, and have you lingering in deep thought over the possibilities.  I wish this book would have had a hundred more pages, to we'd have gotten to know the characters a little more in depth, but the story is vibrant and alive, and pulls you right in.  Whether writing as Dinah McCall or Sharon Sala, her romantic suspense books continue to thrill and entertain!	2002-05-05
US	45216671	R22B3XZG8H1HZA	0843949945	546367854	Dark Guardian (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 8)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Ms. Feehan delivers again---Lucian is not to be missed!!	Jaxon Montgomery has spent her entire life looking over her shoulder, waiting for her stepfather to strike once again.  He'd murdered everyone she'd ever loved or let herself get close to, and she never knows when he might strike again.  She has spent her life training to be a protector.<br />Lucian Daratrazanoff is Carpathian.  He's the Carpathian that their own people whisper about in awe, that even while they depend on him for protection, they fear.  He's the greatest, strongest in existence.  He's walked the Earth alone for over two thousand years, and thought never to meet the light to his soul, his lifemate. And then he meets Jaxon.<br />After suffering horrendous injury in a set up, Jaxon awakes to find herself in the most incredibly beautiful home, with the most luscious man she's ever laid eyes on.  She immediately fears for him, that her stepfather will be hunting him for having helped her.<br />Lucian has to teach Jaxon about Carpathians, about their ways, and that he fears no humans.  And that they are destined to be together for all time...<br />Ms. Feehan has penned the most wonderful love story!!  Lucian is the alpha male, the greatest of his race, yet it's wonderful the way he adjusts his thinking for Jaxon.  He understands her enough to be willing to step back in his beliefs at times, to let her be her own person.  Jaxon was someone I felt sympathy for in the beginning, and had tons of respect for by the end.  The two of them together were the perfect match, and the humor and wit that Jaxon abounds with in the story are not to be missed.<br /> Every time I think she can't get any better, she amazes me and does!  DO NOT miss this book!!	2002-05-05
US	45216671	R26VEO60K7P6QS	1551668866	752693205	Twilight Hunger (Mills & Boon Nocturne)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	This book sent me on a frenzy for her backlist!!	Suffering from a rare blood disease, Morgan D'Silva has set goals for herself that she wants to hit quickly.  The adopted daughter of a famous screen writer and renowned actress, she has always dreamed of being a screen writer herself.  Yet tragedy has recently struck her adopted family, and not only did she lose her parents, she lost everything she knew and was familiar with because of the enormous debts they had accrued.  Not knowing exactly where to start, she takes an offer from a close family friend to stay in a recently purchased older home.  Little does she know she'll not only find her inspiration here, but the love she thought she'd never have.<br />The vampire,Dante had never had a problem before hiding in open sight.  But suddenly it is like the world in general, and a particular bunch of vampire hunters specifically, know every move he is going to make.  They've found all his hideouts, know all of his secrets.  How could this be??  No one knew these things.  Fleeing yet another attempt on his undead life, he retreats to a home that he had owned a hundred years before.  He is shocked to see that it has been totally restored to the way it was when he lived there, almost down to the last detail.  He is even more shocked to see the human mortal woman who lives there, Morgan, and discover that she is one of  \\"the chosen\\".  For only the chosen are able to be changed into vampires and survive.  She was his for the taking....And she was calling to HIM in the night.  Dante.  How?  How could she know his name?  And that this was once his home?<br />Dante soon finds that Morgan knows everything about him...secrets from hundreds of years past.  He has to discover how she knows, and who she has told.  Could she be the traitor who has turned the vampire hunters on him??<br />Maggie Shayne has created an incredible story of intrigue, the paranormal, and love story that is to `die' for.  Her characters are so true to life personality, strength and weakness wise, that we can totally relate to them.  She made me cringe at some of the things the vampire, Dante, did, while at the same time sympathizing and falling in love with him.  She interweaves a secondary story line that will shock you, and pulls it off beautifully without taking away from Dante and Morgan's story.<br />If you're a fan of vampires, you don't want to miss this read!!  TWILIGHT HUNTER is a stand alone story, one you'll fall in love with, but is also tied to a series of books by Maggie Shayne, her WINGS IN THE NIGHT series.  I had never read them before, and must tell you, this reviewer is on a book hunt for her backlist!!e can totally relate to them.  She made me cringe at some of the things the vampire, Dante, did, while at the same time sympathizing and falling in love with him.  She interweaves a secondary story line that will shock you, and pulls it off beautifully without taking away from Dante and Morgan's story.  <br />If you're a fan of vampires, you don't want to miss this read!!  TWILIGHT HUNTER is a stand alone story, one you'll fall in love with, but is also tied to a series of books by Maggie Shayne, her WINGS IN THE NIGHT series.  I had never read them before, and must tell you, this reviewer is on a book hunt for her backlist!!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	RP086FCICZA3Q	055357695X	300066811	Out of the Shadows: A Bishop/Special Crimes Unit Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Loved every minute of this book--can't wait for more!	This is one of my favorite kind of book; it's got a little bit of everything included in it.  There's suspense, romance, and even the paranormal.  And Miss Hooper does a wonderful job of delivering on every angle.<br /><br />Sheriff Miranda Knight has a problem.  Suddenly, for the first time, there are bodies showing up around her small town of Gladstone.  And these aren't stranger's bodies, these are the bodies of some of the town's youths.  But she can't come up with the first clue-which is not normal for her, considering she's a psychic.  Unknown to the good citizens of Gladstone, Miranda has used her talents more than once to solve a crime, and many times to help an investigation along.  But for whatever reason with the teens she's just not tuning in.  She knows the time has come to seek help, and she knows just who to turn to.<br />Noah Bishop is a hotshot FBI agent, heading up a special division known for their `unconventional' methods of investigating.  And, yes, they're a bunch of psychics.  But their track record just can't be dispute because their methods work.  Noah and Miranda have a past-they'd once  had a relationship, until tragedy struck.  He's been searching for Miranda for years, but even with the resources he has available, he hasn't been able to find her.  Then the call comes in from the small town of Gladstone-and he knows.  He's going to see Miranda for the first time in 8 years.  How can he ever make up for what he'd done?<br />When Miranda and Noah meet back up for the first time in 8 years, the sparks start to fly.  Noah is this big, tough guy, but you can just read into the vulnerability he has for Miranda.  And Miranda is so scared of being hurt again, she closes herself off from everything.  Except she's already seen a vision of what the future holds for her and Bishop.  And she has to avoid it all costs!<br />Kay Hooper does such a wonderful job with the relationship between Miranda and Noah-we see it build back up, them overcome the problems of the past.  And at the same time, she keeps you on the edge of your seat guessing who the killer is, laughing out loud sometimes at the secondary characters (who I hope have a book coming one day), and getting so into the paranormal you almost believe you can read minds.  This book most definitely has a place on my keeper shelf, along with plenty of space for future releases involving some of these same characters.<br />Don't think twice about this one-buy it!!<br />This series includes:  Stealing Shadows, and Hiding In The Shadows.he problems of the past.  And at the same time, she keeps you on the edge of your seat guessing who the killer is, laughing out loud sometimes at the secondary characters (who I hope have a book coming one day), and getting so into the paranormal you almost believe you can read minds.  This book most definitely has a place on my keeper shelf, along with plenty of space for future releases involving some of these same characters.  <BR>Don't think twice about this one-buy it!!<br />This series includes:  Stealing Shadows, and Hiding In The Shadows.	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R3SY2TCM7CK9YL	055358393X	564758928	River of Eden	Books	5	9	9	N	N	What a wonderful story!!	Romantic Suspense lovers, heads up!<br />Glenna McReynolds has penned a fast, can't wait to turn the page, stay up all night reading, story!<br />Dr. Annie Parish, \\"Amazon Annie\\", is on a mission.  To convince Will Sanchez Travers, once a renowned Harvard botanist, now a rather seedy looking--with a seedier reputation guide, to take her up the river to Santa Maria.  She herself is a botanist, who, while having some renowned work under her belt, also has the rather infamous reputation of having been kicked out of Brazil a year ago for reportedly shooting a `lover'.  But she's back, and determined to follow up on an amazing discovery she made quite by accident on her previous trip, but she has to have someone, namely Will, get her up the river close to the spot where her find lies.  The RBC, River Basin Coalition, who used influence to allow her back into the country to study `peach palm harvest', has no inkling of what Annie is truly up to.  Annie has other plans, and the case of guns, ammo, and grenades that she bought from a questionable source is only the beginning.<br />Will agrees, under pressure, to take Annie up the river on his boat, the `Sucuri'-which translates to Anaconda! He's got his own personal agenda, and see's Annie being dropped in with him as a nuisance.  But he can't help but be drawn to her spunk and passion.  The fun begins before they even get the boat out of the port, with Annie receiving a letter telling her to leave Brazil.  Oh, and then there's the shootout with those guys she got the guns from...<br />This story starts at page 1 with the action and doesn't let up the entire book.  And the relationship that develops between Will and Annie, who are both leery of the other, is done will skill and grace.  Will has had some experiences with the metaphysical, and the author does a tremendous job of making us `see' what he experienced, and of helping Annie understand Will.  You feel them being drawn together.  And the cast of supporting characters is great.  They will have you chuckling about shrunken heads, and an overweight gun runner sweating it out in the jungle, to feeling the menace ooze off the bad guy, Carisco Vargas.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of romantic suspense, or action packed adventure.  I read it in one sitting, and can't wait for her next suspense novel!  She's done a wonderful job keeping the pace up, and not forgetting the romantic theme.<br />Don't miss this read!ters is great.  They will have you chuckling about shrunken heads, and an overweight gun runner sweating it out in the jungle, to feeling the menace ooze off the bad guy, Carisco Vargas.  <br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of romantic suspense, or action packed adventure.  I read it in one sitting, and can't wait for her next suspense novel!  She's done a wonderful job keeping the pace up, and not forgetting the romantic theme.  <BR>Don't miss this read!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R2DNB3Q9B3HWYB	0061087122	683956970	Master of Seduction (Sea Wolves Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	This book was wonderful!	Lorelei Dupree has led a charmed life.  She's always been the apple of the men in her life's eye-whether it's her father, her suitors, or her new fianc&eacute;. She brags that she knows how to handle any man, can make any man want her-just treat him like a dog; when he comes at your bidding, you reward him.  You always speak in a gentle tone, so that he is sure to always listen closely to what you have to say, and so on...And her intended, Justin Wallingford, proves her words true.  But Justin is not above using Lorelei for his own means-and he means to catch a pirate, and not just any pirate, but the notorious Black Jack Rhys.<br />Lorelei agrees to pose as a bar maid for Justin, to listen for any information she can gain on Black Jack.  What she doesn't plan on is running into a handsome rogue with startling gray eyes that she'd gazed into only the night before-only he was someone else then.  How could that be, unless HE was Black Jack?<br />Seeing the intelligence and knowledge that shines in Lorelei's eyes, Jack knows what he's going to have to do.  There is no way around it; he'll have to kidnap her, and lure Wallingford into a trap on his territory to save her.  But what Jack doesn't plan on is being lulled by her innocence and freshness, or wanting her with every breath he takes.  He didn't plan on her being such a little spitfire, either, and is soon lured into a challenge-that Lorelei can win Jack's heart before he can win her body.<br />It was great fun reading the interaction between these two characters, who were both so sure of themselves where the opposite sex was concerned.  The pace starts racing on page one, and doesn't let up.  Jack and Lorelei are either at one another's throat, or having hands on one another's bodies.  Things really heat up when Jack learns Lorelei has always wanted to paint, and provides paint supplies, and himself as a model.  There were some laugh out loud moments with this!  This book is full of fun and laughter, and sweet and poignant moments.<br />Kinley MacGregor never disappoints, and Master of Seduction is another wonderful read by this author.  She lets us get to know the characters so well, and draws us into every nuance of the book.  I just wish there had been more!  I think there are some wonderful stories in the supporting characters.  Maybe that is for another read!  This reviewer can assure you that if you're a fan of historical romance, you will thrill yourself by picking up this read!d poignant moments. <br />Kinley MacGregor never disappoints, and Master of Seduction is another wonderful read by this author.  She lets us get to know the characters so well, and draws us into every nuance of the book.  I just wish there had been more!  I think there are some wonderful stories in the supporting characters.  Maybe that is for another read!  This reviewer can assure you that if you're a fan of historical romance, you will thrill yourself by picking up this read!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R32MQZZCWYWBV5	0380978555	842568057	The Pursuit (Sherring Cross)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Ms. Lindsey delivers the humor and fun she's known for...	Lincoln Ross Burnett is returning to Scotland for the first time in 19 years, to visit the home where he'd been born, and forced to leave at the age of 12.  After his father passed away in a terrible accident, his continuous fighting with a neighboring family of 16 boys helped along his mother's decision that she could not control him any longer.  He'd been sent to live with an aunt and uncle, who later gave him their name so that he could become their legal heir, and inherit the title.  He's made the decision to find himself a wife, and begin a new life this year, so this visit his boyhood home is to help him settle feelings of resentment he harbors toward his mother.  Little does he know it will also be a trip that seals his fate...<br />Melissa MacGregor, the daughter of Kimberly and Lachlan MacGregor from Love Me Forever, is all set to have a grand adventure in London, where she'll have her come out, and she's sure she'll meet the most wonderful future husband, who will no doubt not be intimidated by her 16 uncles, and her father.  She's sure that if she can only get away from her family, she'll find the man of her dreams.<br />While taking her young cousins swimming in a swimming hole on her uncle's land, Melissa encounters the most wonderful stranger, who intrigues her to no end.  Lincoln feels the same way, is instantly attracted to what he assumes is a country miss, and sets off to find her father and offer for her hand.  When he finally encounters Lachlan, it is to be told that Melissa has already left for London, and that he has Lachlan's blessing to court her there.  What follows is a courtship that is fraught with misunderstandings, and a hilarious lack of communications, some caused by the 16 uncles who turn out to be the same 16 Lincoln had fought as a youth, and some by the fact that Melissa is being sponsored by no less than Megan and Devlin St. James, the Duke and Duchess of Wrothston (Man of My Dreams) who just happen to be out of Lincoln's social realm.<br />Ms. Lindsey absolutely delivers with her witty humor, and we feel like we're sucked right into the scenes.  Her characters are so real to life you expect them to jump off the page and start chatting with you.  The one thing that did disappoint me is that there wasn't a lot of friction or interaction between the hero and heroine.  The story focus's so much on Lincoln's run in with the uncles as a youth that it almost takes over.  If you're a Johanna Lindsey fan, no doubt you'll miss the spark and sizzle that always exists between her hero's and heroine's, but you'll still find this a delightful read.<br />And unfortunately, no, this is not a Mallory story, as many readers believe.<br />Happy reading!l realm.  <br />Ms. Lindsey absolutely delivers with her witty humor, and we feel like we're sucked right into the scenes.  Her characters are so real to life you expect them to jump off the page and start chatting with you.  The one thing that did disappoint me is that there wasn't a lot of friction or interaction between the hero and heroine.  The story focus's so much on Lincoln's run in with the uncles as a youth that it almost takes over.  If you're a Johanna Lindsey fan, no doubt you'll miss the spark and sizzle that always exists between her hero's and heroine's, but you'll still find this a delightful read. <BR>And unfortunately, no, this is not a Mallory story, as many readers believe.  <BR>Happy reading!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R3Q6I35MTBNFX7	0380812037	942909588	On a Wild Night (Cynster Novels)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	On A Wild Night was  a Wild thrill ride!!	On A Wild Night is the newest installment in the Bar Cynster series, the story of Amanda Cynster.  Amanda and her twin sister Amelia are fed up with the insipid males society has had to offer since their coming out.  At the ripe old age of 23, they are ready to take the bull by the horns, and do whatever it takes to find men who fit their ideas of the perfect man---much like their older cousins, those notorious Bar Cynsters.<br />Amanda is the first to embark on her adventure, and she has just the idea of where to find a man who fits her ideal profile-in the shadows, the gaming hells and those balls and many places that are surely unsuited for an innocent such as herself.  But she's determined, and so convinces a family friend to accompany her into the London nightlife, seeking to trap the man of her dreams.<br />Rescuing Amanda from a situation she finds herself in is something Martin, Earl of Dexter, cannot resist.  He hasn't rescued a damsel in distress, or even been exposed to any damsels, since he himself was a youngster at the age of 19, and found himself the center of a scandal that forced his father to exile him.  Having not returned to London until after his father's passing, he's determined to keep to himself, and not enter back into society, risking the cut direct.<br />Finding that Amanda has plans to engage in some of the wilder escapades that are known to the ton, and knowing of no way to save her from herself, he finds himself volunteering to escort her on her wild jaunts, never realizing that he himself is being set up like the fly by the spider.  It's not long before he feels himself being tangled up in Amanda's web, but the question is, has she truly set out to trap him, or is he just falling for her?  Finding the answer is no easy task, and Amanda truly leads Martin on a wild escapade through the London night life, all the way back to the ball rooms of the ton.<br />Miss Laurens has out done herself!!  This tale is a wild romp from page one; with me anxious to turn to the next page to see what Amanda will think up next.  What a fun and wild romp!  And with a few appearances of the Bar Cynster, this book delivered everything this reviewer could want, and left me salivating for more.  The thrill is that the other twin, Amelia, has a book coming out at the end of this month, On A Wicked Dawn.  This reviewer will definitely be standing in line for more of Miss Laurens superior writing!e; with me anxious to turn to the next page to see what Amanda will think up next.  What a fun and wild romp!  And with a few appearances of the Bar Cynster, this book delivered everything this reviewer could want, and left me salivating for more.  The thrill is that the other twin, Amelia, has a book coming out at the end of this month, On A Wicked Dawn.  This reviewer will definitely be standing in line for more of Miss Laurens superior writing!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R31NJ3V4E2AD3P	0061081973	402615250	Queen	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A wonderful read!	Queen Houston has spent her whole life scraping by, and making due for herself and her two younger sisters.  She's always dreamed of not having anyone but herself to worry about, of being footloose and fancy-free.  Johnny, the father that she'd parented as much as she had her sisters, has recently passed away.  The small house that Johnny had won in a card game had always been where they'd lived, but had never really been much of a home, so the three sisters decide to sell it and split the proceeds, and go find their dreams.<br />Queen hasn't decided yet exactly where she is going, but Arizona sounds like it is far from the coal dust and poverty that she's known all her life, so she buys a bus ticket, and decides she'll just play it by ear.  Little does she know a broken down bus, and a decision to hop the next bus that passes by, even if it is going to Snow Gap, Colorado, will help the course of her life along.  Hopping off the bus to stretch, Queen sees three little boys talking to the sheriff, and a woman from the Welfare services.  Having an innate dislike of the welfare system left over from her own childhood, Queen takes fate in her hands and hops in to help the three boys.  Finding that their father seems to be missing, she claims to be their aunt, and returns home with them to help them avoid being taken into custody.<br />It's not long before the children's father, Cody Bonner, returns home to find his home invaded by Queen, his children acting like they'd found a long lost friend, and himself questioning his sanity by wanting this stranger to stay.  Hiring Queen to be his housekeeper, and to watch over the boys, Cody begins to realize that Queen means much more to him that just a housekeeper.  It's not long before Cody and Queen find themselves falling in love...<br />Sharon Sala has written a beautiful love story, one that tugs your heartstrings continuously, but that also makes you laugh out loud at the spunky Queen's antics.<br /> Ms. Sala has interwoven several different threads of story lines, and keeps you on your toes the whole time you enjoy Cody and Queen falling in love.  I truly enjoyed this book and gobbled it up in one setting.  It is a stand-alone book, however I caution you, if you want to find out the dreams the other two sisters have set out to find, you'll have to pick up Diamond and Lucky, also by Sharon Sala.  Happy reading!woven several different threads of story lines, and keeps you on your toes the whole time you enjoy Cody and Queen falling in love.  I truly enjoyed this book and gobbled it up in one setting.  It is a stand-alone book, however I caution you, if you want to find out the dreams the other two sisters have set out to find, you'll have to pick up Diamond and Lucky, also by Sharon Sala.  Happy reading!	2002-04-15
US	45216671	R7QZB7D7UPCOR	0380800810	901291495	How to Marry a Marquis (Avon Romantic Treasure)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Absolutely loved this book!!	Julia Quinn dazzles us yet again with her wonderfully witty dialogue, and fast paced story.  There heroine is spunky and funny, not your everyday miss in the regency period, and the hero just jaded enough to make him interesting!!  Another wonderful read, and probably her best yet--leaves me waiting with baited breath for Romancing Mr. Bridgerton!!	2002-03-19
US	45216671	R2H1TME3CBQ70M	0380816830	639000625	Something Wild	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Something Wild was a great read!	I am so glad that I decided to disregard my first inclination, and picked this book up.  It has earned a place on my keeper shelf, without a doubt.  The writing is superb, and while the story may be a little deep in the angst department a couple times, it all works out beautifully in the end.  I know I shed more than a few tears while reading this, and it sent me digging up her backlist to reread, which includes characters you'll see in this book.<br />If you're a fan of contemporary fiction, of any sort, don't miss this read!<br />Miss Berg delivers a story line that will leave your heart sighing, and you wanting more.  And if you're like me, and just don't know if you could see this story line working, don't make the mistake of not giving it a shot.  You'll miss some wonderful reading moments!!	2002-03-08
US	45216671	R18XXAJ8VKTNML	0758200846	855404492	Too Much Temptation	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Too Much Temptation is over the top!!	Lori Foster just continues to get better and better, and in Too Much Temptation she delivers another 100% read.  Grace Jenkins is a lady who alot of us can relate to; she's not perfect!  She's shy, she feels like she's overweight, she's not completely satisfied in her job, and she has the hots for her boss's grandson (who just happens to be engaged) in the worst sort of way.  She thinks Noah wouldn't notice her if she walked around naked!<br />Noah Harper is the perfect grandson--he runs his grandmother's business, is engaged to a woman his grandmother loves, and pretty much falls in with his grandmother's every wish.  Until he finds his oh so perfect fiancee cheating on him!  Then he starts thinking about it--did he ever really ask her to marry him, or did they just fall into it?  He feels relief that he's not caught in the relationship anymore, instead of the despair he should be feeling.  But his grandmother is not happy when she hears he's cut off the engagement!!<br />Grace, being the wonderful person she, rushes to Noah to offer her comfort and her support--never dreaming that while she's there, and inebrieated Noah will clue her into some fantasies he's been having about her?!  This leads to Grace and Noah embarking on a sensual journey to experience anything and everything they can--but it will only be sex.<br />Lori WOW's us with this story--it starts out with a bang, and doesn't let up for the entire story!  Noah and Grace just ignite sparks off one another, and there is real emphasis on Noah liking Grace just the way she is. You can feel their relationship with one another build, and the SEX!  Wow--it is sexy, sensual, and sweet.  Her charachters are so real, true to life that they could walk off the page, and I wouldn't be suprised.  While she has this wonderful, macho hero, she shows us his vulnerabilities, and his struggle to find the right answer within himself.  I loved every second of this book, and can't wait for the sequel for the brother, Ben, who contributes some very witty dialogue!!  Way to go, Lori!!!<br />Don't pass this book up, folks!  This is a keeper!!<br /> ...contributes some very witty dialogue!!  Way to go, Lori!!!  <BR>Don't pass this book up, folks!  This is a keeper!!<BR> ...	2002-03-05
US	45216671	R30G5R5H6Y70S7	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Mercy is classic Julie garwood	I love all of Julie Garwood's historicals, and I have to admit when she switched on us to comtemp's I had my doubts.  They are all settled now.  Julie has gone back to her classic style, with a quirky, spunky lovable heroine, and a hero who is alpha while at the same time isn't ashamed to show his love for the heroine.  I think one of the things that I love best about Julie Garwood is the interaction between hero and heroine make you feel like you're there, and you know them inside and out.  She does a tremendous job of that with Mercy--I fell in love!  This book had LOL moments, sweet moments, and a great plot.  I read it in one sitting, and am going to buy the audio CD to listen to it and see if I enjoy it as much in audio as I did in print.  If you're a Julie Garwood fan, jump for joy!  She's back!	2001-10-05
US	45216671	R7WOZKPV2XBVT	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Dream Man--the dreamiest from Linda Howard	I can't tell you how many times I've read this book.  It is not only on my keeper shelf, but is one of my favorit comfort reads.  If you enjoy paranormal, suspense, and hunky cops, this books for you!  Marlie Keen is a psychic who used to have incredible talent--but she hasn't been able to, or even wanted to, experience her talent in some time.  It has actually been years, and she thinks she may have been &quot;cured&quot;--until she experiences a vision of a violent murder while driving home on the freeway.  The murder is so clear and vivid to her she see no other choice but to go to the police--enter Dane, a sexy disgruntled homicide cop who dislikes her on sight, and then on principal.  But he can't discount that she knows things only the killer or someone there could know...Linda leads through a thriller and a half here.  And at times we even get to see into the head of the killer..talk about creepy.  Dane is a Dream Man, and one of Linda's Alpha males she's known for, my favorite. This book is packed full of action and suspense, and you just don't know what's going to happen next...A Wonderful read!	2001-10-04
US	45216671	R2G7PFS2LKMKG6	0671019759	12019675	Dream Man	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Dream Man--the dreamiest from Linda Howard	I can't tell you how many times I've read this book.  It is not only on my keeper shelf, but is one of my favorit comfort reads.  If you enjoy paranormal, suspense, and hunky cops, this books for you!  Marlie Keen is a psychic who used to have incredible talent--but she hasn't been able to, or even wanted to, experience her talent in some time.  It has actually been years, and she thinks she may have been &quot;cured&quot;--until she experiences a vision of a violent murder while driving home on the freeway.  The murder is so clear and vivid to her she see no other choice but to go to the police--enter Dane, a sexy disgruntled homicide cop who dislikes her on sight, and then on principal.  But he can't discount that she knows things only the killer or someone there could know...Linda leads through a thriller and a half here.  And at times we even get to see into the head of the killer..talk about creepy.  Dane is a Dream Man, and one of Linda's Alpha males she's known for, my favorite. This book is packed full of action and suspense, and you just don't know what's going to happen next...A Wonderful read!	2001-10-04
US	45216671	R1P64HU723KAHU	0449006840	258547843	Hide and Seek (The Men of T-FLAC: The Wrights, Book 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Hide And Seek by  Cherry Adair	If you're like me, and you love those action packed thrillers, who of course have hero's to die for, you'll love Cherry Adair.  She's got a place on my keeper shelf right next to Linda Howard, she's that good!  In Hide and Seek, Dr. Kyle Wright is on a covert mission of huge magnitude when he sees a...face from his past in the home of a huge drug lord.  A face he's never been able to forget...And the adventure starts here!  This is a not to be missed read if you're a fan of suspense--Ms. Adair keeps us on the edge, and although we know who the villain is, there is no lack of thrills and suspense.  I can't wait for the next one!!	2001-10-04
US	45216671	R2J7WHVT0H4KPI	0671034014	378094364	Mercy	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Julie has stuck gold!	Mercy, Julie Garwoods new hard cover novel, the follow up to Heartbreaker I can only describe as gold!  Theo, an attorney for the Justice dept., meets Michelle, Dr. &quot;Mike&quot;, at a huge gala in New Orleans as he's doubled over in pain. The fun starts here!  I don't want to give away one minute of the suspence and romance that takes place in this novel, but to me this is the best I've read by her since Prince Charming.  There's not an element missing from this book, and she's spiced it up with her trademark feisty heroine and hunky, type A, sensitive hero.  I loved every minute of it, finished it in one sitting! <BR> DO NOT MISS THIS!  It left me hungry for more....	2001-09-12
