US	45227490	R3HXN2XKJH2A6H	0806125128	310680502	Medicine Women, Curanderas, and Women Doctors	Books	3	16	25	N	N	Interesting Journey	Medicine Women, Curanderas, and Women Doctors makes for an interesting, enlightening read.  It relates the personal philosophies of a handful of women-Native American Medicine Women, Hispanic curanderas, and female MD's-and delves into their motivations while examining their impact on the world around them.  At the same time, it traces the journey-some might call it a spiritual quest-which the authors follow to ultimate, fulfilling enlightenment regarding the place of women in all aspects of life.  A monument to the strength of women the world over, the authors have compiled an argument in favor of traditional and holistic medical science and the woman's place within that science.  <br />However, in examining various points of view, the authors repeatedly commit several faults.  One of them is continuous criticism of Christianity and the Anglo-European way of life in contrast to the sometimes pantheistic and often superstitious viewpoints held by folk healers.  I believe that undeserved judgment is leveled on the American culture as a whole, when such judgment might be better and more fairly reserved for its abuses.<BR>  <BR>Another fault is that in presenting a wide assortment of individuals who believe strongly in differing aspects of healing, the focus of the book becomes too diffused and generalized to maintain truly profound significance. In detailing the beliefs of the pantheistic Indians, the fervently monotheistic Hispanics, and the skeptically religious women doctors of today, and by mustering these viewpoints against the errors and abuses of anti-traditionalism without allowing them to dialogue among themselves, the authors leave the reader with a sense of ideological dissonance and irrelevance. <br />However, on the positive side, the reader does come away with an appreciation for the strength and determination of women the world over in providing comfort and healing.  Too, the obvious link between an individual's mental/psychological state and his physical well being cannot and should not be ignored.  These two insights, as well as a clear look at the context and history of all the influences that have been brought to bear on the healing process, are very valuable.  This book is not only an interesting journey, it is a very insightful, educational one, as well.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2003-03-11
US	45227490	RAD9G9UEU875S	0471389420	764774174	The American Heritage Book of Great American Speeches for Young People	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Cheap, Irrelevant Shadows of the Real Thing	Overall, this American Heritage Book of Great American Speeches is not satisfying.  Suzanne McIntire, the editor, did a fine job of condensing various speeches and isolating the most profoundly relevant portions of others.  However, this was at the cost of transforming these jewels of human expression into pedestrian baubles.  There is simply no way that the great effort she engaged in can ever be fully appreciated. Granted, these speeches have been condensed for the benefit of  \\"young people.\\"  However, in lowering the bar of expression for the benefit of a faction of society, the editor has effectively minimized their capacities and cheapened their appreciation of what would otherwise be culturally and personally priceless.<br />Too, I question the value of publishing only the portion of Nixon's \\"Checkers\\" speech relating to the acquiring of his dog, and his steadfast resolve that \\"We're gonna keep it.\\"  Why include it at all? To show that he liked his dog?  The same goes for other speeches.  When deprived of that which makes them effective rhetoric, and when their noteworthy expression has been boiled down to skeletal bits and pieces, they cease to be great speeches for anyone's perusal-thus voiding the very purpose of the book's compilation and editing.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2003-03-11
US	45227490	RQGM0H4NU0G61	0679601996	543411005	The Count of Monte Cristo (Modern Library)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Human Nature in a Compelling Narrative	Compelling Description of Human Nature and Motive<br />There is really no way to accurately review The Count of Monte Cristo. A simple review of its plot would be unfair to the genius of Dumas and to the profound insights into human nature and motivation that this book contains. Likewise, to approach this book merely for its psychological and anthropological value would be to ignore the imaginative flights of fancy and vistas for the mind's eye that this tome affords. Similarly, to approach The Count of Monte Cristo merely as a fable or a fairy tale is to forget that it is an accurate historical novel portraying the Franco-European mindset, as well as a crystal-clear exposition of the many social issues, conventions, and commonly-held fancies that characterized France throughout the post-Napoleonic era. However, for purely literary purposes, and due to constraints of space and time, a brief sketch of Dumas' masterpiece will have to suffice. Ideally, however, you will stop reading right here and get your hands on the book, thus skirting my woefully inadequate attempt to review this masterpiece fairly and coherently. <br />Dumas' narrative follows the story of a virtuous young man struggling to come of age and find his place. However, in the classic battle of good versus evil, he is imprisoned unfairly and robbed of all that was dear to him. Eventually, he comes into great wealth and knowledge, escapes from captivity, and single-mindedly sets about to be the instrument of Divine vengeance on those who had previously denied him life and love. Along the way, he re-learns the value of friendship, and, having seen justice brought upon his enemies, finds unexpected love in an ending that is a triumphant, crescendoing testimony to the indomitable quality of the human spirit - and the mercy of God.<br />Throughout this tale, Dumas teaches us of forgiveness, of love, of anger and hate, and reaches out to the reader with an intensity that can only come from a spirit that itself drank deeply of such emotions. Indeed, the story of Edmond Dantes - from the lowly but principled pauper to the rash, vengeful yet popular prince - smacks at times of Dumas' own rise from obscurity as an unknown mulatto to the powerful and respected literary force that he became. <br />Granted, there are times when Dumas' heroes - like all heroes - take on superhuman qualities. However, they are not the indestructible supermen that mar much of today's literature. Instead, they are all too human - flawed sufficiently that their exploits are believable, and human enough that the reader often finds himself dialoguing with them, arguing for or against their intents and actions. In this way, it is the enduring human quality of the book - the ability for us to reach out across the better part of two centuries and dialogue freely and coherently with them, and to recognize the players and actors as fellow humans above all else - that makes it so compelling. Likewise, it is that essence of humanness that stands as the greatest tribute to Dumas.<br />An insightful, powerful, fast-paced, and moving read, The Count of Monte Cristo is one of those books that does not end when the last page is turned and the book closed. Its imaginative power transcends the written page with timeless force, calling us to a greater, more vivid plane of existence and self-expression. <br />Now get the book!<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-10-23
US	45227490	R3MR6GG9CXCEFL	0618116036	704841293	The Way We Talk Now	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A Breath of Fresh Air in the Field of Linguistics	_The Way We Talk Now_ is one of those rare masterpieces that appeals to both the scholar and the layman. In this compilation of radio essays on a variety of subjects, Geoffrey Nunberg looks at the American culture and its institutions - and the way we verbalize in regard to, and as a result of, them - with an eye that is as incisive as it is witty.<br />Indeed, for a linguist of such repute, Nunberg is engaging and warm, and his essays are as enthralling as they are enlightening. In fact, for those individuals who have always seen the study of linguistics as a highly specialized field of study appreciated only by intellectuals who are as boring as their reading, this will be an enormously pleasant shock. <BR> <BR>More than a collection of entertaining essays, however, the value of The Way We Talk Now lies in Nunberg's constant and unrelenting prodding and encouragement of the reader to look at himself within our cultural and institutional contexts - via the medium of verbal self-expression. Whether discussing the flap over inner city dialects being taught in school, the moral and aesthetic qualities imparted to the English language by purists, the camaraderie of radio call-in talk shows, or the evolving perception of cults within our society, Nunberg relentlessly brings the reader to examine his own communication. Invariably, the realizations that accompany this self-analysis - both voluntary and involuntary - are as enlightening as they are surprising.<br />Profound without being incomprehensible, simple without being shallow, packing its weight in engaging scholarly content, and a springboard for continued self-analysis and more effective self-expression, this jewel of humor and insight is both a credit to Nunberg's skill and a welcome breath of fresh air. Above all, this is a book to be read as much for learning as for enjoyment. <br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-10-09
US	45227490	R1NKICYCAMW2ZG	0451524160	283328506	The Secret Agent (Signet Classics)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Dark and Despairing, but Revealing and Insightful	In _The Secret Agent_, Conrad takes an incisive look at post-Victorian England.<br />Even as it emerged from the Industrial Revolution as Mistress of the World - the last and the greatest of the old, geographically-powerful empires, and one on which the sun never set - Conrad reveals the British culture to be at a cross-roads with itself.  Morally and ideologically bankrupt, struggling to come to grips with its deep-seated past even as it looked despairingly into the future, this England is a mix of characters straight from a Dickens novel living in a world of drudgery and despair worthy of Kafka.<br />The story focuses on Verloc, a secret agent who has outlived his time.  Included in the narrative, as well, is the circle of naive and outdated visionaries and utopians with whom he comes into contact.  The plot follows Verloc's stated task - the planting of a bomb at the Greenwich Observatory, a metaphor relating to the struggle of science versus ideology that cannot be missed.  The end result bespeaks not the superiority of science over ideals, or vice versa, so much as it testifies to human weakness and fickleness.<br />Above all, Conrad has written a psychological novel - a broad narrative that examines human motive and methodology against the backdrop of a city that hangs stubbornly on to the mores of the late Victorian Age. More poignant still, its citizens seek to find the meaning of their existence beyond the impersonal, mechanical demands of their place in society - and failing that, they seek to inject their own meaning and sense of purpose into the world around them. Accordingly, Conrad's analysis of the masks people wear is masterful and gripping.<br />Seemingly rather pointless as far as plot development is concerned, _The Secret Agent_ was never meant to be a thriller and should not be read as such.  Instead, it is a brilliantly ironic and incisive look at human nature and the lengths we will go to to preserve our perceived purpose in life.  Read it andyou will come away with a new sense of perception not only of yourself and those around you but also of the reality you live in.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-07-17
US	45227490	R169W6ANSF0XWB	1591290562	597400744	A Young Girls's Crimes	Books	2	23	27	N	N	Great Author, Not So Great Book	A Young Girl's Crimes leaves you with mixed feelings at its end.  Although there can be no doubting of the author's abilities, intellect, and giftedness, the book itself is hardly a tribute to those abilities.  Granted, this is a first novel.  Too, it would be unfair to ignore the fact that this book fairly bursts with potential.  The disappointment is that it fails miserably to meet the expectations created by that potential.<br />On a personal level, to say that the author is merely \\"talented\\" or \\"skilled\\" would be an insult to reality.  Possessing a keen sense of insight into human motives, as well as a solid perception of psychology and relationships, David Rehak comes across as a multi-faceted prodigy as well as a gifted observer of humanity.  His portrayals of relationships and the inner workings of the mind are as incisive as they are accurate - even though he does those insights an injustice by placing them uncomfortably and in a stilted manner within the story that he tries to weave.<br />Also, there can be no denying that the author possesses more than average linguistic abilities.  His translations to and from the French are concise and to the point without falling prey to verbosity - a common pitfall when the translator is faced with the challenge of transporting concepts between languages.<br />In English, too, Rehak proves himself a master.  Although few, there are times when he soars to almost poetic heights.  Take for example the opening lines of the first chapter when he describes the summer sun as shining \\"like a razor into the eyes of the world.\\"  There are other moments of linguistic beauty as well, not to mention his credible use of regionalisms and common-speak to provide a bit of local color.  These masterful uses of English shine out like jewels in what is otherwise tasteless putty.<br />Kudos, too, for Rehak's able depiction of the hypocrisy and fallacies of the lesbian/feminist movement.  In that respect, he is to be commended.<br />Despitethe author's brilliance and the occasional moments of interest, the story hardly does justice to its summary - which is that a young woman falls into the depths of perversion but finds redemption in spiritual values.  True, the book does describe perversion in insultingly graphic detail, but Flora's redemption through spiritual values is as bland as it is ambiguous.  <br />Which brings us to the big question: \\"What's the point?\\"  Although it starts out well enough, the story soon begins to meander as it traces various characters through their sad and pointless lives.  By its end, the reader must needs be depressed and disappointed - if he was able to stay focused.  Those readers who put the book aside out of boredom are spared the disappointment of having persevered only to be completely let down at its tragic, pointless end.<br />Finally, although a book avowedly describing spiritual values - whatever those may be - and the redemptive powers of those values, the author throws in enough smut to earn this a place of honor on any pornographer's shelf.  Granted, it's not smut for the sake of smut, but any positive effect that describing \\"spiritual values\\" may have is completely overwhelmed and undone by the disgusting details of lesbian sex, as well several descriptions of the female body at its most degenerate.<br />That, as well as the inadequate characterizations it contains, made this book hardly worth my time - and certainly not worth my money.  Although Rehak has the potential to fly high, he has not yet. <br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-06-26
US	45227490	R24O4IJ8JUL9ZV	0891076867	875117852	Pollution and the Death of Man	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent Analysis of Christianity and the Environment	This masterpiece of logical thinking is unequaled in the realm of Christian literature for its conciseness of content and expressiveness of thought. <br />In this book, Schaeffer discusses the Christian approach to the environment and deals with the all-too-common misconceptions peddled by those Christians who are either ignorant of Biblical truth in this area, or are so intent on distancing themselves from the pantheistic, bleeding-heart, tree-hugging left that they come across as uncaring and abusive.<br />Nature does play a part in God's plan, and far from being entrusted with it as a no-strings-attached gift - a common misconception of the use of \\"dominion\\" in the Genesis account - we have been given the moral responsibility of keeping our surroundings while at the same time utilizing them conscientiously to meet our needs. In ridiculing and minimizing man's God-given duty of stewardship, modern Christianity has severely impaired its testimony and driven many conscientious individuals into the arms of equally erroneous sects - many of them pantheistic.  This tendency is as wrong as it is regrettable.  <br />Schaeffer further points out that having been created by the same God, any attempt by man to look down on and misuse his physical surroundings is to pass judgement on the God Who created those surroundings  and us.  <br />Overall well-balanced and thought-provoking, Schaeffer answers the excesses of extreme Christianity on the one hand and raving nature-worship on the other with a treatise that is as elucidative as it is highly readable.  This is required reading for anyone who wants to be convicted and informed of the necessity to appreciate and respect nature within the God-oriented context of Biblical truth.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-05-01
US	45227490	R2OQDV3RKB4884	0385489099	424706370	The Rasputin File	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Excellent, Informative, but Rather Boring	In this book, Edvard Radzinsky does a good job of investigating and dispelling many of the myths and legends that have surrounded Rasputin and the Romanovs for quite some time.  The file that provided much of the insight into that period, and which served as the basis for this book, was indeed a priceless find.<br />Indeed, this book is not so much a window into Rasputin's life as it is one into the sad and naive reign of the last of the Romanovs.  Within the context of the last days of Tsarist Russia, Rasputin can be understood as being not a demoniac crank/witchdoctor, but a brilliant master of psychology who was able to bend weaker minds along the whims of his own blind faith.  His own headstrong, fanatical journey to ultimate destruction parallels that of the Romanovs.<br />Throughout the book, you cannot help but be impacted by the sense of despair that pervades the dawning of Bolshevism and the decline of tsarism - a stage on which Rasputin was only one of many players.  Caught in the grips of a social upheaval that threatened their very existence, the Russian nobility was both divided against itself and desperately clueless - seeking to hang on to the last vestiges of gilded power even as it trembled at the coming of Bolshevism.  Enter Rasputin, an eccentric peasant whose iron-clad faith in himself and God and his seeming curative powers endeared him to the naïve Tsarina and gave him a place of direct, foremost influence in the tottering monarchy.  <br />At first, he seemed to have good intentions.  His counsel, although naive, was moral and genuinely sincere.  Little by little, however, the power and influence at his command and the self-serving flattery of a court that disliked him went to his head.  All too soon, the holy man began to play at politics and engage in less-than-holy activities in his quarters, even as his influence became stronger as the monarchy weakened.  With the rumor mill of elite society cranking out lies and half-truths about him, theenvy of the court gradually turned to hate.  Soon conniving minds, wishing both to purge the monarchy of his predatory influence as well as tear down this prop of the sagging monarchy in order to take power for themselves, began to plot against him.  <br />His own death under once-mysterious - but now elucidated - circumstances, heralds not only the end of the Romanovs, but also the end of an era.  <br />Satisfyingly biographical and full of detailed descriptions and the minutiae of the everyday life of that period, this book's only down side is that it can sometimes become rather tedious.  The translation is rather cumbersome, and were the story not so interesting in and of itself it would be difficult to maintain focus and interest.  As it is, it is a treasure trove of information that is worth the diligence needed to assimilate its content.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-04-24
US	45227490	R3VDSJWVLU0GO9	0670891606	483170918	Rosa Parks (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Satisfying and Inspirational	This biography of Rosa Parks presents a very well balanced, fair description of its subject.  Regrettably, as with Martin Luther King Jr., social activists and historians have all too often exalted the heroes of the Civil Rights movement beyond the bounds of human existence.  This deification is both degrading and unfair, as it not only deprives our heroes of the right to live - and die - as normal human beings, but it also places many of them out of reach  - discouraging many to whom them would otherwise serve as excellent role models.  <br />In refreshing contrast to that destructive tendency, this book does an excellent job of peeling back the aura around Rosa Parks and depicting her as the simple, virtuous woman that she is. Brinkley's depiction of her is refreshingly human and honest, and he does a magnificent job of describing her in the simple, straightforward way that so characterizes her.<br />Also worthy of note is Brinkley's willingness to include so many of Rosa Park's circle of acquaintances in his narrative.  From her hard-drinking yet loyal husband to people who have met her only briefly, he touches on their influences on her life, their reaction to her, and what they all mean within the greater scope of her place in our history and society.<br />Regrettably, whites - with a few notable exceptions - are seen as oppressive, racist boors with a permanent vendetta.  Even at that time, that was not true.  <br />Overall, this book is an excellent, enjoyable, and enlightening read - and one that does refreshing justice to the woman and warrior that Rosa Parks is.<P...	2002-04-04
US	45227490	R3GA92Y3GYDANF	0684809184	534371781	The Gold of Exodus	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Fast-Paced but Factually Deficient	Action-packed and fast-paced, Howard Blum not only keeps you on the edge of your seat, but he makes this book a hard one to put down.  I read it in two sittings, and I do not regret the hours of sleep I sacrificed on its behalf.<br />However, this story is rather sensationalistic, and the scope of its narrative is perhaps a bit too grandiose for the central theme of the book - which is that Mt. Sinai exists, has been found, and measures up to the Biblical description.  Too, considering that everyone from the CIA to the Mossad to the Chinese was darkly and mysteriously involved, some of the conclusions and resolutions are just a bit too pat. <br />In essence, the Gold of Exodus traces the daring, and sometimes foolhardy, adventures of a colorful millionaire and his friend, burly ex-SWAT Bob Cornuke, as they embark on a secret quest to discover the gold that tradition holds the Children of Israel left at Mt. Sinai in penance for their sins.  They eventually make it to the site as their unabashed treasure hunt for gold gradually becomes a spiritual quest for God.<br />As far as geographic/Biblical lore is concerned, this is indeed a fascinating read.  The sense of adventure also makes the time spent reading it worthwhile.  However, although not impossible, the narrative is rather flimsy (due to the author's compression of certain facts to heighten readability), and an objective reading in search of hard, cold facts will leave you rather disappointed by its end.  In my case, it made for a good one-time read, but it's not one I'll be picking up to re-read in the near future.<br />- Benamin Gene Gardner	2002-03-28
US	45227490	RRRDHTZ7HQ3US	0740704818	699671477	The Blue Day Book	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful, Uplifting, Humorous	More than just another of those cute coffee-table books, Greive combines humor, sensitivity, and some very funny pictures into a masterpiece that not only holds your attention, but touches your heart and lifts your spirits.<br />Most acclaimed self-help books either read like a prescription or are so full of inflated rhetoric and soaring prose that they lose themselves. Not so with this book. First, Greive doesn't presume to offer the reader a solution. Instead, he dishes out humorous doses of encouragement and insight. Second, this book is not a \\"3-Secrets-of-Delighted-People\\" methodology designed to numb you as an alternative to lifting your spirits. Instead, it provides a momentary escape and distraction by putting many of life's crises in a poignant, sometimes ludicrous, light that leaves you chuckling at your own circumstances.<br />Easy to read and hard to put down, you'll find yourself refreshed and encouraged every time you read it through...Gardner	2002-03-14
US	45227490	R3O2GN1YPOR531	156384155X	978529875	Patriots: Surviving the Coming Collapse	Books	5	30	42	N	N	Very Real and Informative	More than a novel, this is a classic survival manual placed solidly within a plausible context of economic collapse and social unrest in our beloved United States of America.<br />Granted, from a purely literary point of view, it is rough around the edges - but that can be forgiven since this is a first novel.  In truth, as a practical manual and reference book relating to the Jeffersonian concept of eternal vigilance, it's hard to come by a better, more well-balanced book.  When the credentials of its author - a former Army intelligence officer - are taken into account, its wisdom is further enhanced.<br />Above all, this is a book that should appeal to a wide readership.  It successfully distances itself from the ranks of the raving ultra-rightists and wide-eyed doomsday prophets with its excellent balance of practical skills and religious and political moderation.<br />Whereas Rawles has been stamped as a &quot;survivalist&quot;, don't take him to be another of the myriad Chicken Littles of modern times, running around and bemoaning the falling sky.  More than mere survival, Rawles addresses the essence of our cultural and sociopolitical heritage, and shows us that surviving at the cost of those values is foolish - and for that insight, his book is to be praised even if it did not contain anything else of value.  That it does contain much more of value makes it required reading for any serious citizen who understands the necessity of our collective patriotic duties.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-02-21
US	45227490	R27CEH3DNL3RQ7	1576737098	905038645	Boy Meets Girl: Say Hello to Courtship	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Pragmatic and Refreshing	With this book, Josh and Shannon wed the ideology of \\"I Kissed Dating Goodbye\\" and quite a few of his articles in \\"New Attitude\\" to the pragmatic, hands-on approach of their own relationship and marriage. The result is a refreshing, down-to-earth narrative that carefully analyzes the various aspects of courtship/dating, and balances mature insights with Biblical principles.<br />Most importantly, however, this is not a handbook to marriage, a methodological standard to be rigidly adhered to. Throughout, Josh consistently points us back to his source - the Bible. <br />Another aspect of this book that makes it highly readable is Josh and Shannon's amazing sensitivity and discernment regarding many crucial issues that most writers seem afraid to touch on. With their strongly God-centered approach to such topics as virginity and sex, they effectively skirt prudish suggestiveness and strike at the heart of the matter. Previously, where the obvious discomfort of some authors in discussing such topics has made me feel uncomfortable and even guilty, the impression you get from this book is of being privileged to talk these issues over with an older brother or mentor. <br />All in all, this is an excellent, God-glorifying read that is refreshingly human and pragmatic. Taken into context with the obvious precedence of parental instruction and the study of the Word, it is extremely beneficial and informative to those who are interested in being challenged to deeper thought and uprightness in regard to the issues it presents.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2002-02-14
US	45227490	R1ZMYS8J2QPM9T	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Masterpiece of Poignancy	Although Hemingway is still regarded as the figurehead of everything that machismo and the American concept of rugged individualism is, was, and ever could be, this book is a surprisingly poignant and realistic look at the heretofore unseen, inner world of such seemingly superhuman men. This book is also a tender and moving review, a very real summing up, of what Hemingway perhaps once was - or wanted to be.  It could also be considered the ultimate fish story with an unexpected, surprisingly triumphant twist to the &quot;one-that-got-away&quot; ending.<br />Here, Hemingway explores the true concept of a winner, and unmasks defeat. As his hero shows us, being victorious is standing strong to the bitter end, and defeat cannot exist where the spirit has not been broken. <br />Too, Hemingway shows us that tender youth need not be synonymous with vulnerability, and we can only wonder if the young lad - so devoted in his love and care of the Old Fisherman - does not represent a shadow of Hemingway in his younger years, his other self concealed behind the granite sense of self-existence that Hemingway passed on to a whole generation.<br />Above all, however, this is the story of a quest - of how far man can and will go to achieve his goals, and, despite having his grand prize ripped bitterly from him, of being able to come to terms with such occurrences and find rest and pride not in the prize itself, but in having taken every step of the long, hard journey that led to that goal.<br />Here, Hemmingway comes full-circle, melding the essence of rugged manhood with the physical, emotional, and psychological vulnerability, not to mention the values and ethics, which make such strength human. In my opinion, it is the poignant highlight of his career, and this book is more Hemingway as a human than any of his previous works.<br />Masterfully and movingly written, this work has more than esthetic value to it, however.  Read it and dare yourself to be every inch as human as its heroes, and you will be all the richer for the experience. <br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-12-20
US	45227490	R22ATPXZIIEP8C	0670886696	802733832	Mao Zedong: A Penguin Life (Penguin Lives)	Books	1	12	19	N	N	Rather Watered-Down and Weak	For someone with a Guggenheim and a MacArthur Fellowship, as well as eleven books on Chinese history, Jonathan Spence leaves a lot to be desired in this brief sketch of Mao Zedong. Worse, the extent of Chinese history is interpreted around Mao, and the book leaves you wondering how China managed to survive after his death. That China is still on the map - and in the UN - is a strong rebuttal of the inferred conclusion that Mao was the highest point in Chinese history - if not the extent of Chinese history itself.<br />A weak, narrative book that preoccupies itself with merely restating commonly known facts, this may be the kind of book you want on an eight-hour plane trip, but certainly not the kind a serious reader or scholar would want to come close to.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-07-26
US	45227490	R1QAD3OQKMMM7G	0195210433	895566129	History of the World	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Good, but not the Final Word	This book can't hope to live up to your immediate expectations - that this will be THE History of the World, the final word on everything that ever happened, or at least the final word on the most important things that ever happened. It's simply because the Final Word doesn't exist. If it did, this book would never have been written, the elusive final word having been written long ago and by someone much more famous. Furthermore, no such final word could ever hope to be contained in one volume - even a volume as intimidating as this one. <br />However, as a general overview, this book does an excellent job of presenting what could arguably be considered the highlights of human history, and even does a reasonably good job of presenting several insights into prehistory. The humanistic slant notwithstanding, Mr. Roberts' scholarly mastery of a wide range of subjects, as presented in this book, is indeed impressive.<br />Well-illustrated with a smattering of color and black-and-white pictures, although the referencing/indexing system leaves something to be desired, this, then, is a book more for the casual reader seeking insights and perhaps a starting point for further reading rather than a reference book for the scholar.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-06-22
US	45227490	R99OL31ZA6L6Q	1579121551	672169930	Photo OOPS: 101 Photo Opportunities Gone Horribly Awry	Books	1	7	8	N	N	Photographic Opportunities Gone Awry?	It's hard to believe the statement on the cover of the book:  Photographic Opportunities Gone Awry.  This conjures up images of really embarrassing moments in a wide range of categories.  What a disappointment when you actually open it: politicians all, and most of them are only funny if you happen to find normalcy hilarious.  Granted, there are the funnier moments.  Hillary Clinton wrestling with a mike chord is probably the funniest - which is why they put it on the cover of the book.  The rest of the book falls within the &quot;cute&quot;, &quot;interesting&quot;, and &quot;quaint&quot; categories - none of which contain elements of the humorous.<br />The introduction of the book contains general elements of humor, and that little spark of humor remains throughout most of the captions beneath the pictures.  However, it's a spark that is all but extinguished at certain times - especially when you discover that, in the index in the back of the book, at least two of the credits have been switched, and there are some typos.<br />Read the book once, then donate it or give it away.  The moment of gratification incurred by such an act will probably lift your spirits more than this book ever could.<br />- Benjamin Gardner	2001-06-21
US	45227490	R1MK4BV1C6JO3H	0816745218	316563228	Bloopers, Botches & Blunders	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Interesting, but not Humorous	From the Brazilian robber who glued himself to the floor, to the thief who dropped a 600-pound safe on himself, to Goldie Hawn spilling wine all over Sly Stallone at a dinner attended by George Bush, Sr., the anecdotes in this little book are interesting, to say the least. However, they're just not funny. Maybe it's the sarcastic headings that introduce each anecdote, or maybe it's the rabidly factual wording and style that characterizes the entries, but the bottom line is that - somewhere between the whimsical and the factual - the humor has been lost. <br />On the other hand, this does make an interesting sociological/psychological reference book. What would make a job candidate want to arm wrestle his interviewer? What kind of person would invent &quot;Gorilla Balls protein supplement snack&quot;? And, above all else, what would motivate a person to make and market spinach french fries? <br />Regardless, this book does bear testimony to the fact that - as the introduction of the book aptly states - &quot;it's a blunderful world!&quot; It's just a pity that those blunders can't be retold humorously.<br />A final note: the authors of the book are supposed to be Allan Zullo and Allan Evllo. If the corresponding first names, and the matching &quot;llo&quot; in the last names don't tip you off, then when you receive the book and see only Allan Zullo's name on the front you just might begin to suspect that this blooper isn't quite accidental. Is there some kind of witty interplay going on here, are they just trying to pull your leg, are they gently poking fun at themselves, or was this indeed a mistake? Faced with the risk of saying something really stupid, I'll shut up and let you decide.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-05-28
US	45227490	R2SQFTXM8DZWP6	0521789753	69419541	Cambridge International Dictionary of English Flexicover and CD-ROM Pack	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Complete, Easy-to-Use, Informative	This is probably one of the best dictionaries of international English to appear on the market - ever. Well-illustrated, and containing whole pages of grammar helps and lists of useful information relevant to every aspect of the use of the English language, this is the ultimate help for both teachers and students - as well as any other professional who comes into close and frequent contact with English.<br />By far, the greatest merit of this reference is that it is fair in respect to both British and American variants of the English language. Don't know what a pitch is, as in &quot;They stepped onto the pitch to start the game?&quot; Look it up to find that it's the British variant of &quot;field&quot;. Perplexed when those Americans complain about dumpsters being emptied at 2:00 a.m.? It's in here too, as &quot;skip&quot; - and, what's more, for those learners who have no inkling as to what either a skip or a dumpster is, a well-illustrated &quot;building and construction&quot; table shows us what a skip is, along with several other implements.<br />What exactly is a pub? It's well-defined as &quot;a building with one or more rooms where alcoholic drinks can be bought and drunk and where food is often available&quot;. But that, as is clearly explained, is only in England and Australia. In the US, it's a bar. All usages are clearly compared and contrasted with concise, carefully-worded examples. <br />The accompanying CD is another plus that vaults Cambridge's solid reputation into the 21st century. Along with providing everything the dictionary offers, it offers interactive pictures and the American and British pronunciation of the words - quite a handy tool for learners. <br />An excellent investment to be used for both a career and a lifetime, this will grace the lectern, the desk, and the copywriter's table with equal compatibility.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-05-04
US	45227490	R36S9THJI2VTY8	067945649X	768233274	The Men Who Wear the Star: The Story of the Texas Rangers	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Informative, Gripping, Graphic, True	Fastidiously researched, well-documented, and equally well-written, this book is probably the final word, not only on the Texas Rangers, but on certain epochs of Texas history. This is the book that we`ve been waiting for - the kind that evokes the human side of the Rangers without destroying their larger-than-life reputation, and one that makes them live up to their sins without minimizing their heroism. This combines equal parts fact and testosterone to make for a satisfying read that, although it does drag occasionally, quite makes up for it with a steady stream of colorful events and individuals on every page.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-04-25
US	45227490	R1O50M6WOCGBTP	0345401956	833729860	Ancient Mysteries	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Scientific Look at History, Mythology, and Archaelogy	Although not the last word on any of the mysteries it presents, this book is certainly worth reading. Like The Mummies of Ürümchi, by Elizabeth Wayland Barber, this book brings out fascinating insights from the past, and the wealth of information presented here unveils epochs of history that were surprisingly eventful and sophisticated for their time. <br />On the other hand, the best part of a mystery is its very elusiveness, and if there is a negative aspect to this book, it is that the prolific amount of cold, noncommittal information it carries effectively removes the aura and awe from many of the subjects discussed, while at the same time withholding clear answers. We want answers to our questions - even if it only be an opinion - and, after several lengthy chapters of small print, the noncommittal, impartial research of the authors leaves us with neither the answers (only possibilities of varying probability) that the mysteries demand nor the wonder that they should evoke. Perhaps we should have suspected that when we read, on its cover, that this is where we can &quot;...discover the latest intriguing, scientifically sound explanations to age-old puzzles...&quot;<br />All in all, it's a well-written, well-illustrated book, and, if you have an imagination that manages to hold on to the sense of mystery in a mystery despite a deluge of inert facts, then there are very few other places you would want to go to read about lost Roman armies, the riddles of the Sphinx, the curse of Tutankhamun, and - of course - Atlantis, among others. In the end, you just might come to the conclusion that the very essence of a mystery is not that it is a mystery because people know so little about it, but that it is so because quite a few people know so many different things about it. If this is the case, this book is essential - if not crucial - to coming to that realization, and you will not regret having read it.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-04-22
US	45227490	R34VIPYLIY0LR3	0062735233	357567442	On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction	Books	4	4	4	N	N	&quot;On Writing Well&quot; Says It All	On Writing Well is just as crucial to clarifying the writing process as Mortimer J. Adler's How to Read a Book is to understanding the reading process. In essence, Zinsser's main thrust - and oft-repeated standard - is that simplicity is what differentiates between good writing and bad writing. Most importantly yet, simplicity lends force and incisiveness to any literary form. To sprinkle a text with flowery adjectives, adverbs, and worn-out idiomatic phrases is in fact to clutter it and weaken it.<br />In this book, William Zinsser makes a strong case for writing well. Most importantly, he shows not only what good writing is, but he gives us the key to producing good literature regardless of the purposes and preferences of each writer. Furthermore, he bases what he says on a strong foundation of examples, both pro and con. The good humor pervading his work - which differentiates it from the spiteful nit-picking of other self-styled teachers who believe themselves entitled to an opinion - is an added asset to this delightful discourse. To read it, regardless of whether you agree or not, is to be profoundly affected. But be warned! After reading this book, you'll catch yourself being objectively critical of your own writing and what you read of others'. This is a book that will make you think. Still, isn't that what good books are all about?<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-04-20
US	45227490	R3IS5E9BB8A5LW	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Human Touch	This well-researched literary jewel has completely revamped the pedantic, prolixic image of the Oxford English Dictionary - that intimidatingly scholarly work of linguistic art.<br />More than just a narrative about words and how they all come together between two covers, this narrative brings the context of the times into the picture, as well as opening a door into the behind-the-scenes action by revealing the people who made it all possible. More than just a book about another book, Simon Winchester has produced a well-written bridge from that time to our own time and introduced a respectable, if not unusual, cast of characters whose stories lend a warm, human touch to the cold, scholastic formality of the Oxford English Dictionary.<br />A scholarly tribute to a scholarly masterpiece, this book is well-recommended to those seeking surprising, sometimes humorous, sometimes tragic insights into the late eighteen-hundreds and how it has influenced the way we speak and communicate today.<br />- Benjamin Gene Gardner	2001-04-18
US	45227490	R1N823ROQHI0CN	0684863170	123160711	A Return to Modesty: Discovering the Lost Virtue	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Incisive Look at Virtue	Wendy Shalit's A Return to Modesty is perhaps one of the most incisive looks at the bases for virtue that has been produced in the last three generations.  Granted, there have been innumerable religious textbooks setting forth equally innumerable credos and standards on dress and comportment throughout this same period, as well as the inevitable, and inevitably varied, textbooks on etiquette and manners.  The problem with these is that, with very few exceptions (among which are C. S. Lewis and Francis Schaeffer), they set forth their standards and rules with the assumption that the reader already understands why virtue is important and is searching for that illusive \\"how\\". <br />A Return to Modesty takes a close look at human nature and uncovers what most of us have taken for granted for so long, to the point that we have essentially forgotten what it is we take for granted - that the essential principles of virtue, among which modesty figures highly in this analysis, are there, deep down inside us.  These essential values - the prerequisites for the development of virtue - are able to be overlooked, but never quelled.  To overlook them is to deny the very essence of what makes us human - a view that stands in refreshing contrast to Nietzche's statement that morals are only the convenient by-product of evolution.<br />Wonderfully logical and good-humored, but suffering from none of the biased, overly religious overtones that plague so many other books on the subject, this is a wonderful jewel of clear thought that will appeal to anyone interested in taking a closer look at what and who we are, and what our identity should mean to us.	2001-04-15
US	45227490	RD4VSM98BNRXQ	0887307833	33432567	Dragonfly: NASA And The Crisis Aboard Mir	Books	4	3	4	N	N	How Did They Ever Do It?	Inventiveness is not dead.  That, among many others, is the impression you come away with after finishing this fast-paced, adrenaline-soaked narrative.<br />This book does more than testify to the jury-rigging abilities of the various Mir teams, however.  It is also a sweeping chronicle that strips away the superhero status of Earth`s pioneers in space and replaces them with their all-too-human counterparts.<br />Too, the question lingers - How did we ever make it to space?  The selfishness and egotism of the many people in both Russian and American camps makes mankind`s successful venturing beyond the bounds of Earth seem nothing less than miraculous.  More sobering yet, Is there hope for the international space program? Can we do it yet again?  Is cooperation in space and in science something that depends only on the individual goodwill of the astronauts, or could it one day be reflected in an international mindset of, and dedication to, progress and cooperation?<br />These are dark questions that stand out in sharp contrast to the colorful characters that appear one at a time, or in droves, on the stage of this narrative. From reckless, whiny Jerry Linenger to good ol`Blaine Hammond (who nobody ever listens to anyway) to macho Valery Tsibliyev and the aging Mir space station itself, this is a book that presents equally valid proposals and considerations alongside real-to-life characters.<br />Whatever your reaction to this book, I guarantee that you`ll never be able to look up at the stars, or hear the word &quot;NASA&quot;, again and not feel as if you have been given a grandiose, momentous insight into the future of humanity.	2001-04-11
US	45227490	R172A8FSCJMZMM	0451527097	761117464	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	160	172	N	N	Stimulus to a Searching, Introspective Analysis	&quot;One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich&quot; is indeed a powerful book.  Were it merely the grim testimonial to life in the Soviet Gulags or a witness to infringed liberties, its force would be staggering.  Were it a testimony to the indomitableness of human nature, it would be crushing.  As it is, it shatters our perception of man and ourselves as no other book, save Anne Franke`s diary and the testemony of Elie Wiesl, could ever have done. <br />However, it is more than all the above.  &quot;One Day&quot; is actually a searching look at human nature.  The biting wind, jagged wire, frigid climate, watery soup, and the warmth provided by an extra pair of mittens or an hour of hard physical labor all find matches in the colorful crowd of characters that parades through this narrative - from the prison guards to the prisoners themselves to the prison director to the turncoat prisoners who sold their integrity for the favor of their oppressors.<br />This is a book to be read, first of all, for its historical value - a tribute to those who were imprisoned but whose voices were never heard, and a silent plea to commit all our forces to the proposition that such vileness will never reach our liberty-loving shores.  No less importantly, this is a book that should prompt us to turn our eyes inward and question ourselves whether, in our own way, we are capable of committing the same atrocities against our fellow man, and whether, if subjected to the same suffering, we would have the strength of character to find as much comfort in a bowl of soup as we do now in the transient, unfounded knowledge that such inhumanity will not touch us.	2001-04-11
US	45227490	R3TWRSJKCYAPEZ	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Stimulus to a Searching, Introspective Analysis	&quot;One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich&quot; is indeed a powerful book.  Were it merely the grim testimonial to life in the Soviet Gulags or a witness to infringed liberties, its force would be staggering.  Were it a testimony to the indomitableness of human nature, it would be crushing.  As it is, it shatters our perception of man and ourselves as no other book, save Anne Franke`s diary and the testemony of Elie Wiesl, could ever have done.<br />However, it is more than all the above.  &quot;One Day&quot; is actually a searching look at human nature.  The biting wind, jagged wire, frigid climate, watery soup, and the warmth provided by an extra pair of mittens or an hour of hard physical labor all find matches in the colorful crowd of characters that parades through this narrative - from the prison guards to the prisoners themselves to the prison director to the turncoat prisoners who sold their integrity for the favor of their oppressors.<br />This is a book to be read, first of all, for its historical value - a tribute to those who were imprisoned but whose voices were never heard, and a silent plea to commit all our forces to the proposition that such vileness will never reach our liberty-loving shores.  No less importantly, this is a book that should prompt us to turn our eyes inward and question ourselves whether, in our own way, we are capable of committing the same atrocities against our fellow man, and whether, if subjected to the same suffering, we would have the strength of character to find as much comfort in a bowl of soup as we do now in the transient, unfounded knowledge that such inhumanity will not touch us.	2001-04-11
US	45227490	R1G5L5ANV52JON	0312199570	931592204	Twilight of the Wagners: The Unveiling of a Family's Legacy	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Letting the Skeletons out of the Closet; Facing His Ghosts	Rambling and often disjointed, Twilight of the Wagners (a clever pun on Götterdämmerung - Twilight of the Gods) is more, much more, than the self-proclaimed \\"unveiling of a family`s legacy\\" that it is.  From Hitler to Hess to the Wagner tribe to von Karajan to Furtwängler, they`re all here - all the great actors on the stage of History who, out of patriotism or madness, played a more than casual role in what was to be one of the defining moments of the 20th century.  Like ghosts from the past, they are called up and made to act out their roles with sometimes convincing color and life throughout the pages of this book.<br />Although Gottfried Wagner is to be praised for unveiling his family`s legacy, the reader cannot help but wonder if this is really the mea culpa - the final exorcism of anti-semitic ghosts throughout no less than three generations - that it is meant to be.  After reading it, you come away with the feeling that, beneath all the history, there is a razor-sharp undercurrent of bitterness and an overwhelming desire to prove that \\"I`m good; they`re bad.\\"<br />Too, this book does not really unveil a dark legacy - it rips the mouldering shrouds off quite a few corpses; corpses that it might have been better to leave quietly buried.  Closet doors fly open, and skeletons - some over a century old, others quite new - come tumbling merrily out.  In other words, it doesn`t unveil a legacy, it spills the beans.  Written in an almost conversational tone, the impression that it gives is that this is a prolixic, disjointed confession - one tinged with personal impressions but lacking the satisfying basis of empirical fact-finding and research.<br />Regrettably, the very thing that would make this an enjoyable book - its first-person narrative and conversational style - is also what makes it a rather tedious book to read.  Equally regrettable is the fact that there is a distinctive self-promoting slant to the book.  Regardless, it makes for an enjoyable first reading - although it probably won`t tempt you back for a second dose, and the historical anecdotes it contains are more than enough to whet the appetite of those researchers searching for the distinctively domestic touch that most treatises on the Third Reich lack.	2001-04-06
US	45227490	R3LEVBIA8GH0MQ	1572460741	94602519	The Law	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An Argument for Justice	More than just a treatise on socioeconomic justice, The Law is a handbook for orderly thinking.  It clears away the weak arguments and rationalizing that clutter the stage of history and conceal tyrants, and exposes the foes of true liberty and brotherhood for who and what they are.  To those conscientious individuals for whom a just society is an attainable ideal, this book is required reading - over and over again.	2001-03-09
