US	45317921	R11BBLLGS87V3L	1405101032	399673314	Health of Women with Intellectual Disabilities	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Health of women with intellectual disabilities	Women's health in general as a special issue is a relatively new concept, but this book is a first with special attention to women with intellectual disability. This is a very timely book, because professionals have long neglected this population and training of physicians and other health professions have been inadequate. <BR> This publication, the first in a new series by Blackwell in cooperation with the International Association for the Scientific Study of Intellectual Disabilities (IASSID), is edited by Patricia Noonan Walsh. Professor of Disability studies at the National University of Ireland in Dublin and Talmar Heller, professor at the Department of Disability and Human Development at the University of Illinois at Chicago.<BR>The book has 14 chapters by 21 international contributors in three parts: The context of health, health status and trends, and promoting health. The approach is multidisciplinary with authors from medicine, psychology, education, public health, sociology, anthropology and nursing.<BR>This a a comprehensive book with case stories and evidence based results from international research on the health and well-being of women with intellectual disability. The dark side of history is also mentioned with the stories of forced sterilizations and sexual control in the United States in 1900-1950. The chapter on this issue is interesting with a comparision of American and Brazilian attitudes. In this book on women's health the last chapter by Mike Kerr from Cardiff is an interesting addition with the title: Men's health: The female of the species is more healthy than the male. He concludes that the health of the male with intellectual disability is poorer than women, but the reasons not as clear as in the general population.<BR>All in all an important book for the professional working with the population of persons with intellectual disability...	2002-11-16
US	45317921	R3IU1PIR1H6IPM	0471418153	459298928	Down Syndrome: Visions for the 21st Century	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Down syndrome	Down syndrome have existed for thousands of years. 3,500 years ago the Olmecs tribe, who lived around the Golf of Mexico made wall reliefs, sculptures and other artefacts that showed handicapped people with Down syndrome features around their temples that seemed to represent a mystical attitude or religious significance. They believed that children with Down syndrome were the result of mating between senior women of the tribe with the jaguar, the sacred totem of the Olmecs and therefore the child with Down syndrome was regarded as a god-human hybrid, the \\"natural\\" offspring of this close union with the gods. A number of cave paintings describe sexual relationship between a jaguar and a human and it seems that these children were singled out for special treatment. As they were more frequently born to older and therefore more senior members of the tribe and only a few of the children would survive, gave them a rarity value. Persons with Down syndrome at that time were looked upon as sacred and having religious or superhuman significance.<BR> John Langdon Haydon Down (1828-96) was the first physician to describe in detail the syndrome that came to bear his name. In 1866 he tried to classify the various forms  of \\" feeblemindedness\\" and concluded that individuals with mental disabilities belonged to different ethnic varieties, such as Ethiopian, Malay and Mongolian. We have learned much since and this book edited by Willian I Cohen, Lynn Nadel and Myra E Madnick in association with the US National Down Syndrome Society (NDSS) will give us more thoughts as we enter the new century.<BR> The book has 42, all American, contributors with a multidisciplinary background, who participated in a conference created to try and look into aspects for the next century concerning persons with Down syndrome (DS). There are 32 chapters devided into ten sections: Self-determination, self-advocacy, advocacy, role of the family, health and clinical care, research, psycho-social issues, education and inclusion, communication, math and language skills, and turning the vision into reality.<BR> The vision for persons with DS is that they will be included in all aspects of family, school, work, social, recreational and community life with equal opportunities and rights. Much has been achived, but there is still a long way to go, not only the the United States, but also world wide. <BR> This book puts forward some of the visions and thoughts in an optimistic way and is therefore recommended reading for both family members, caregivers and profesionals working with person with Down syndrome.	2002-09-25
US	45317921	R2OXFGNLOHUKEW	0192625535	450399168	Oxford Textbook of Public Health (Three-Volume Set)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Oxford textbook of public health, 4th Edition, 2002	This is a three volume \\"heavy\\" textbook, both in weight but certainly also in the scope of its content and the basis for learning public health from an international perspective. This fourth edition is dedicated to professor Walter W Holland, who was the original founding editor of the textbook first published in 1984. The present editors are affiliated with UCLA School of Public Health, Department of Public Health at the University of Glasgow, Department of Community Health at University of Auckland and National Institute of Health and Nutrition in Tokyo.<BR> The first volume presents the scope, the second presents the methods and the third the practice of public health with a total of 101 chapters from close to 200 international contributors<BR> Each chapter is extensive both in its research, details and scope with relevant references and suggested bibliography. It is truly comprehensive in its international scale and the editors must be congratulated for making a clear, consistent and easy read textbook. The subject of bioterrorism with reference to the antrax scare and other possibilities in the wake of the Twin Tower attack is reviewed from a public health aspect. The index extensive.<BR> My own interests of child public health, adolescence, disability and mental retardation were well rewarded with fine chapters and a scholary discussions of even the current classifications of disability, handicap and intellectual disability. The chapter on adolescence had fine suggestions for health policies on a local and global basis.<BR> This is an important book that should be found at every public health library and at the side of specialists in public health medicine.<br />...	2002-07-09
US	45317921	R1J7NJQHRHSGCO	0723431841	307139823	Physical Signs in Dermatology	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Physical signs in dermatology	This is a beautiful and very excellent textbbook on physical signs of the skin written by Clifford M Lawrence from Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle upon Tyne and Neil H Cox from Cumberland Infirmary in Carlisle, both experienced dermatologists.<br /> The book has chapters with more than 700 full-color photographs of excellent quality and very instructive, informative tables and diagnostic tips and pitfalls in each chapter. The chapters are not divided according to diseases, but rather a logic and informative way to experience dermatology through the clinical features, like shape and pattern of lesions, colours, regional distribution and much more. The index is also very useful.<br /> The chapters are detailed with such high quality illustrations that you feel the patient in front of you.<br /> This is a very important book that should be found as a companion for every dermatologist, but the family physician, pediatrician and internist will also need it in their daily clinical work. Any medical library should not be without this book....	2002-04-23
US	45317921	R386ENADMK0FOE	0721680011	15741839	Textbook of Family Practice, 6e (Textbook of Family Medicine)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Textbook on family medicine	This is a very impressive and now classic book on family medicine by professor Robert E Rakel from the Department of Family and Community Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas.<BR> The book has 131, all American, contributors from the field of family medicine, but also other fields, but always matched with a family physician to ensure the relevance to family medicine. It is divided into five parts with 67 chapters: Principles of family medicine, Family medicine in the community, Communication, Practice and Management.<BR> The chapters are extensive both in detail and scope with relevant issues, such as bioterrorism. Evidence based medicine is discussed as well as practice based research, but we missed a chapter on persons with intellectual disability or mental retardation in family medicine. This is because more and more persons are now living in the community and the family physician will be the primary care taker with very few medical schools having this subject in their curriculum. Maybe a chapter on the future of family medicine should be prepared for the next edition. <BR> We have looked at many chapters and found useful information in a clear and straightforward language. Also useful information on pediatric and adolescent issues for the family physician. The index was also helpful and extensive.<BR> This is an important book that should be found at the office or library of every family physician...	2002-04-22
US	45317921	R2AH260PME90MS	0471491047	76939912	Health Anxiety: Hypochondriasis and Related Disorders	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Health anxiety	This is to our knowledge the first comprehensive book on health anxiety, a subject rarely described before the 1980s. Gordon JG Asmundson, a psychologist and director of clinical research and development at the Regina Health District, Saskatchewan, Steven Taylor, a clinical psychologist and professor at the University of British Columbia Department of Psychiatry and Brian J Cox, a clinical psychologist and associate professor at the Department of Psychiatry, University of Manitoba, have together with 37 colleagues from Canada, United Kingdom and the United States compiled this textbook on hypochondriasis and related conditions.<BR> The book is divided into four parts: Clinical features and theoretical perspectives, assessment and treatment, related conditions, conclusions and future directions with a total of 15 chapters.<BR> Hypochondria as a term dates back more than 2000 years with a definition by Forbes Winslow in 1863 (Obscure diseases of the brain and mind) and today considered as \\"health related fears and beliefs, based on interpretations, or, perhaps more often, misinterpretations, of bodily signs and symptoms as being indicative of a serious illlness\\". The disorder occur in about 5% of the general population without gender preference and can begin at any age, but most common onset in early adulthood. Health anxiety can be quite devastating with intense fear and functional disability for the patient, they environment or relatives.<BR> In recent years research has been done, but there is a need for further research in this disorder, effects of treatment and long term outcomes. This book will give you the current status in the field from an international perspective and will be helpful for clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, nurses, family physicians and therapists in mental health and general medicine....	2002-03-16
US	45317921	R1A1L8TQU2YCN0	0443070806	487732943	The Clinician's Handbook of Natural Medicine, 1e	Books	4	62	68	N	N	Natural medicine	This handbook is a shorter version of the textbook of Natural Medicine published a few years ago by the first two authors. The three present authors are all affiliated with the Bastyr University, Washington in the United States. This college of naturopathic medicine was established in 1978 by Les Griffith, Bill Mitchell and Joe Pizzorno in the name of their teacher John Bastyr. He was one of the pioneers of natural medicine, who had grown up with a father pharmacist and a mother interested in healthy living in the beginning of the 1900 in Seattle.<BR> The Bastyr University today offers the student acupuncture and oriental medicine, applied behavioral science, exercise science and wellness, nerbal sciences, nutrition, psychology with a health concentration, spirituality, health and medicine. Joe Pizzorno, a former midwife, co-founder and past president of the University has been instrumental in bringing scientific methods to natural medicine and setting educational standards for teaching in this field.<BR> This book has 74 chapters or entries on 74 common diseases from Acne to viral pharyngitis and a useful index. Each entry is arranged in a reader friendly way with therapeutic flow charts to help in the decision making process. You will find information on diet, supplements and natural medicine treatments and when needed also traditional medicine options.<BR> The book can be recommended to the therapist interested in learning about natural medicine options in various diseases and for the physician interested in using natural medicine in addition or sometimes instead of traditional drugs...	2002-03-08
US	45317921	RTLKAB64X42QX	0761922474	463201071	Recent Theories of Human Development	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Recent theories of human development	R Murray Thomas, emeritus professor in psychology from the University of California in Santa Barbara, has been very active over the last 50 years in the field of human development with close to 50 books to his name. <BR> Human development is the way people change with the passing of time and in this book you will find an introduction with a brief description of nine different models of human development put forward during the 1880-1980s. <BR> The rest of the book is devided into three parts: Extensions of tradition, products of social movements and final observations that illustrates the theories of human developemnt during 1980-2000.<BR> The last 20 years have been influenced by the discussions of children growing up in poverty, ethnic minorities, sexual orientations and the impact of feminism. The coming years with a wider globalism, the influence of the internet and the impact of international terrorism will certainly have new therories and models come forward to explain human development in the 21st century.<BR> A short and quickly read book with an overview of human development for students in psychology, social work, educations and human development.<br />Geula Merrick, CDA, BA(Psych)<BR>Child development specialist<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD<BR>Medical director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel.	2002-02-26
US	45317921	R35ZCG9KK6ZXN5	0195216032	331215881	Voices of the Poor: From Many Lands (World Bank Publication)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Voices of the poor from many lands	This book is the third in a trilogy of books on the issue of  poverty and human development undertaken by the World Bank. This last book will tell you the case studies from 14 countries. In all three books information was gathered from more than 60,000 poor men and women from sixty countries, the true experts on poverty with many stories to tell together with  relevant and important observations. The study is different from other poverty studies in the fact that participatory and qualitative research methods were used. The voices of the poor from the whole  world can be heard from each page you read. The task for the research team and authors has been enormous, but they have passed with flying colours.<BR> This book has 16 chapters with the story of poverty in 14 countries (Ghana, Malawi, Nigeria, Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Kyrgyz Republic, Russian federation, Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador and Jamaica) with each country chapter organized with a brief life story followed by the issues and discussions that emerged in the group sessions and individual interviews in each country.<BR> The book ends with advice for politicians and lawmakers, who have failed to address the issue of poverty that in many countries seem to make the rich more rich and the poor more poor. States should work towards reduction of poverty by promoting pro-poor economic policies, invest in poor people's assets and capabilities, support partnership with poor people, address gender inequity and children's vulnerability and protect poor people's right.<BR> We hope the three books and the material presented will be used in international forums in order to formulate efforts and plans to reduce global poverty, instead of collecting dust on the shelves...	2002-02-24
US	45317921	R2GGKEEEKMNY5L	0838524745	513775479	Pediatric Infectious Diseases: Principles and Practice	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Pediatric infectious diseases	This is a very impressive book on infectious diseases in childhood and adolescence for both specialists in pediatrics, infectious disease and family medicine. It is edited by Hal B Jenson from the Division of Pediatric Infectious Diseases at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio and Robert S Baltimore from the Yale University School of Medicine and the departments of Pediatrics, Epidemiology and Public Health. <BR> The editors have gathered 71 contributors from the field of pediatrics, infectious disease, microbiology, immunology, dermatology and internal medicine. Most from the United States with one contribution from  Canada and one from Jamaica.<BR> This textbook is extensive with 106 chapters and a useful index with each chapter well edited and devided into classical sections of etiology, epidemiology, pathogenesis, symptoms and clinical manifestations, diagnosis, treatment, complications, prevention and references.<BR> We have looked at many chapters and found useful information in a clear and straightforward language. One question we especially looked for was when to give a hepatitis B booster, but this is still left unanswered.<BR> This is an important book that should be found at every pediatric department library, on the desk of the consultant in infectious disease and also important for the adult specialist in infectious diseases serving the pediatric population. <br />	2002-02-24
US	45317921	RIJISXJUECY5H	0309065453	304864737	Children of Immigrants: Health, Adjustment, and Public Assistance	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Children of immigrants	The National Academy Press publishes reports from the United States National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering, the Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. This book is a report from the Committee on the health and adjustment of immigrant children and their families. <BR> The book has 12 chapters by 20 contributors with focus on health, adjustment and the public assistance to immigrants and their children in the United States. <BR> There are many immigrant children in the United States. California had the most with 35% of all children in immigrant families in 1990, then followed by New York (12%), Texas (11%), Florida (7%), Illinois (5%) and New Jersey (4%). It was interesting to read that the proportion of children with non-English speaking parents today is similar to the 1910 census data. In 1997 nearly one in five children (about 14 million) was a child of an immigrant. When the committee started their work it became evident that there was not enough research on this topic and it commissioned research that is presented in this book (11 papers). <BR> The studies presented had some interesting findings. In spite of first generation children of immigrants having a greater exposure to socioeconomic risks it appeared that these children have a better or equal physical health compared with native born children and the same holds true fo academic achievement. Another finding was that immigrant status provides a health advantage for better birth outsomes also. Another myth was also laid to rest with the paper that showed immigrant families are less likely to use or receive welfare assistance than native born families.<BR> This book will be very useful for the student, researcher or public service planner interested in the impact of immigrantion on American Society, since it presents in a clear and understandable way the recent data with detailed analyses. <br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD	2002-02-24
US	45317921	R18N4IQ78J0WR1	0195216024	22513652	Voices of the Poor: Volume 2: Crying Out for Change (World Bank Publication)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Voices of the poor. Crying out for change.	This book is the second in a trilogy of books on the issue of  poverty and human development undertaken by the World Bank. It is estimated that there are 2.8 billion poor people around the world and this book will tell you stories about 20,000 of them from 23 countries in Africa and the Middle East (like Egypt and Zambia), Eastern Europe and Central Asia (like Bosnia and Uzbekistan), Latin America (like Argentina and Jamaica) and South and East Asia (like Bangladesh and Vietnam).<BR> The idea began in 1998, planning during 1998 and field studies in 1999 with final reports targeted for the 2000 World Development Report. A very impressive and quick research study that in this book focus on well-being and ill-being, problems and priorities, role of institutions and the role of gender relations. For each of the 23 countries a national research team selected 8-15 communities to be representative of the target population of poor people with field interviews and studies performed in a short time span, sometimes under very stressful and sometimes dangerous situations.<BR> The authors of this book then had to go through about 10,000 pages of field notes and national reports from 23 countries and make a useful and readable book out of it. They have really done a good and impressive job out of it. The pages are the stories of many experts on poverty, not from academics or universities, but from the mouth of the poor person him-or herself and there is a lot to learn. Seven themes for change emerge:<BR>· From material poverty to adequate assets and livelihoods<BR>· From isolation and poor infrastructure to access and services<BR>· From illness and incapability to health, information and education<BR>· From unequal and troubled gender relations to equity and harmony<BR>· From fear and lack of protection to peace and security<BR>· From exclusion and impotence to inclusion, organization and empowerment<BR>· From corruption and abuse to honesty and fair treatment<BR>A powerful statement for change that we hope the World Bank will be instrumental in fullfilling, so that the dream of a world free of poverty can someday soon come true.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD<BR>Medical director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il<br />Geula Merrick, CDA, BA(Psych)<BR>Child development specialist	2002-02-24
US	45317921	R3SR4CY2UKYINL	0471485624	118693855	Sex and Your Teenager: A Parent's Guide (Family Matters)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Sex and your teenager	This book is part of a new series on Family Matters introduced by Wiley to highlight common topics relevant to the 21st century family.<BR> John Coleman is a clinical psychologist with many years of clinical and academic experience at the Royal London Hospital. Since 1988 the director of the Trust for the Study of Adolescence in Brighton, where he has published widely on the subject of adolescence and in 2001 awarded the OBE for services to youth justice.<BR> This book is for parents or caregivers on the important topic of sex and sex education for our children today. It is devided into nine chapters: puberty, learning about sex, sexual development, first relationships, impact on family, risky behaviours, sexual orientation, the law and the role of the parent. Each chapter is well-written with \\"case stories\\" or comments by teenagers or parents and information on useful organisations, readings or websites.<BR> The style is short and informative and we believe this book can be a useful guide for many parents, but also teachers and even teenagers, who wants to take a peek.	2002-02-23
US	45317921	R3VP0L9XBZBYOH	0470841338	12546188	The Fathers Book: Being a Good Dad in the 21st Century	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The father's book	This was a fun book to read. Congratulations to Wiley for finding David Cohen to author this book. This book is part of a new series on Family Matters introduced by Wiley to highlight common topics relevant to the 21st century family.<BR> David Cohen is a psychologist, writer and also film-maker, who has been involved with many interesting and funny projects. His PhD thesis, as an example of this, was on the subject on what makes children laugh. In this book he has used his talents as a reporter, a psychologist, an academic, as a father to two children and stepfather to another two. The book is very personal on his experiences and relationships to his parents, his ex-wife, present wife and children.<BR> Every year around 120 million men become fathers, but very few were ever taught the profession of being fathers, because very few fathers tell their sons about this task. Men usually do not talk about these things and the author's father only told him two things, honour the mother of your children and send them to decent schools. <BR> This book has 12 chapters, from the history of fathers (from Abraham to Woody Allen) to the new dependency paradox, where it seems that today's children are very reluctant to leave home. This is due to the harsh world out there with sky high rents, stress and why leave the nest, when the nest will provide you with food, drinks, computers, e-mail, emotional and financial support. <BR> We recommend this book to both new and old fathers, you will have a good laugh, but it will also provide you with intelligent and relevant information for the task of being \\"a good enough father\\". .... .... .... .... .... ....	2002-02-16
US	45317921	R2N7PAHRVKQE9N	0792367898	483899410	Measuring and Monitoring Children’s Well-Being (Social Indicators Research Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Measuring and monitoring children's well-being	This book is the product of international work since 1994 among close to 80 professionals from 27 countries in order to re-define and bring consensus to the issue of measuring and monitoring the status of children in our societies. <BR> For many years many countries have gathered information and statistics about their children, but mostly in the area of basic needs and survival. This book and the international project is going beyond and looking at indicators to measure and monitor the well-being of our children. A task not easy to come about, but important, because it will provide important information, knowledge, tools for better planning and make monitoring more possible, when you have hard facts to compare with. <BR> This book has nine chapters: Rationale for measuring child well- being, existing efforts around the world, basic guidelines, five new domains, indicators, how to measure, the community level, making of policy and summary with an agenda for future efforts in this field.<BR> The message of the book is the importance of measurements of child well-being finding indicators that you will be able to monitor over time both improvements and change. The new approach can be described as looking at well-being instead of just survival, from negative aspects to positive aspects of child life, from well-becoming to well-being and from traditonal to new domains. The five new domains the authors propose are in childrens activities, childrens economic resources and contribution, civic life skills, personal life skills, and safety and physical status with 49 indicators. <BR> This is an easy-to-read book with good information for professionals trying to find ways to measure and monitor well-being in todays children and adolescents.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD<BR>Medical director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2002-02-16
US	45317921	R2KZ1558AAN54H	0192629506	809487107	The Oxford Illustrated Companion to Medicine	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Oxford Illustrated Companion to Medicine	This book is dedicated to sir Ronald Bodley Scott (1906-1982), a family physician and specialist in internal medicine, who was affiliated with St Bartholomew's Hospital and appointed physician to King George VI and  Queen Elisabeth II. Together with a collegue he conceived the idea of this companion, which was in its planning stage at the time of his death. The present companion is the 3rd edition. The three editors are wellknown physicians, Stephen Lock, a hematologist who edited the British Medical Journal from 1975-91, John M Last professor emeritus in epidemiology from the Univesrity of Ottawa and George Dunea, the chairman of nephrology at Cook County Hospital in Chicago.<BR> This companion is not a standard encyclopedia, but rather a selection of more than 500 short papers by more than 200 authors on subjects from abortion to zombification. Each entry is connected to the historical perspective of medicine, relationship with culture or art and information on the persons behind.<BR> It can be learned that autopsies are not without side effects. A certain Josef Kolletschka died of sepsis following an infection acquired after sustaining  a wound during autopsy. It was the similarity of his illness and in patients with puerperal fever that led Ignaz Philip Semmelweiss (1818-65) to understand that puerperal fever was caused by infection. This Hungarian obstetrician, working at the Allgemeines Krankenhaus in Vienna observed that the maternal mortality was higher in the ward attended by students (that came directly from the dissection room to the ward) than in the ward attended by nurses. When he enforced hygiene the mortality fell from 9.95% to 1.3%. The administration did not like his ideas and he was forced to leave for Budapest, where he became professor of obstetrics in 1855. His ideas on hygiene (Die Aetiologie der Begriff und die Prophylaxis des Kindbettfiebers, 1861) was not received well and in 1865 he suffered from an mental breakdown and died from septicemia from a wound infection.<BR> On the lighter side you will also find some nice quotations on the medical profession, like the one of Thomas Fuller (1609-61) on \\"physicians, who like beer, are best when they are old\\".<BR> All in all, a book with a wealth of information on medicine and its history.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD<BR>Medical director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel, <br />Mohammed Morad, MD<BR>Family physician, Division for Community Health,	2002-02-08
US	45317921	R1K6W06ZLJTW3H	0727914243	493573913	Evidence Based Pediatrics and Child Health (Evidence-Based Medicine)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Evidence based pediatrics and child health	This is a very impressive and timely book on Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) by 74 contributors in the field of pediatrics and child health from the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia, Holland and Italy.<BR> The term EBM was developed by Sackett and colleagues from the McMaster University (Sackett DL et al. Evidence based medicine. BMJ 1996;312:71-2) as \\"the conscientious, explicit and judicious use of current best evidence in making decisions about the care of individual patients\\" or in other words, good medical practice based on as much facts as possible for the benefit of your patient. Since 1991 this field has been incooporated into many medical schools around the work, textbooks published and now we see it reaching pediatrics and child health.<BR> This superbly edited book (updates will be regularly posted on [...]) is devided into three sections: \\"Finding, evaluating and applying the evidence\\"; \\"Evidence for routine practices: screening/prevention\\" and finally \\"Common pediatrics conditions\\" with a good and comprehensive index.<BR>  The steps in the practice of Evidence Based Pediatrics (EBP) are: to evaluate the clinical situation (by history, by examination and laboratory tests), identify information needs and structure clinical questions, search for relevant information from the literature, evaluate the evidence found or identify lack of evidence and finally apply the evidence to your patients.<BR> You will find many useful and structured entries in this book from the issue of the \\"well child\\" to the common pediatric problems of otitis media, constipation, short stature or croup. <BR> We believe that this important book should find its way to the desks of the practicing pediatrician, the lecturer in child health and the researcher in pediatrics.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD<BR>Medical director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel, email: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il<br />Mohammed Morad, MD<BR>Family physician, Division for Community Health, Ben Gurion University, Box 653, IL-84105 Beer-Sheva, Israel, email: morad-62@barak-online.net	2002-02-02
US	45317921	RX4GA51U7XR56	1585620092	934973957	School Violence: Assessment, Management, Prevention	Books	4	2	2	N	N	School violence	In 1999 it was found that 17% of American high school students reported carrying a gun or other weapon over the past 30 days (MacKay AP, Fingerhut LA, Duran CR. Adolescent health chartbok. Health, United States, 2000. Hyattsville, MD: Nat Center Health Statistics, 2000) and males were more likely to carry than females. Among male students, non-Hispanic black students were more likely to carry a gun than non-Hospanic white and Hispanic students. Seven percent of the students reported carrying a weapon to school, 11% of males and three percent of females. In 1999, 27 percent of female students and 44 percent of male students were involved in one or more physical fights, but between 1991 and 1999 the percent of students carrying a weapon decreaseds 35% (26% in 1991 and 17% in 1999) (1).<BR> This book is edited by Mohammad Shafii, a professor of Psychiatry at the University of Louisville School of Medicine and Sharon Shafii, a nurse with experience in adolescent medicine with another 22 contributors with a multidisciplinary background. The book is devided into four sections (Contributing factors, assessment and management, legal aspects and prevention) with a total of 15 chapters and a god index.<BR> The layout is good, the chapters easy to read and the editors did an excellent work in order to give an up-to-date review of this field with perspectives for further research, prevention and interventions. We would have liked to see e-mail addresses included in the list of authors for further personal communication with each author.<BR> This book will certainly become a resource book for professionals working in the school environment. <br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc<BR>Director, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel and Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il<br />Shlomo Kessel, MA<BR>Director of Neve Natoa Residential Center, Box 93, Hadera. E-mail: skessel@internet-zahav.net	2001-09-19
US	45317921	R2NZBRY5FQP366	0192628704	277916119	Concise Oxford Textbook of Medicine	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Concise Oxford textbook of medicine	This textbook is a one volume textbok of medicine based on the wellknown, renowned and established Oxford Textbook of Medicine (OTM). Two of the three original editors have selected, organized and restructered the content into a more practical and handy volume with the chapters updated and re-written with a practical focus in mind. The OTM is now in its fourth edition, three volumes and therefore not the first choice of book for the medical student or the young physician in training with a busy schedule. That has been the rationales behind this condensed version.<BR>The book is in twenty sections: Starting out with pain management (for some unknown reason), cardiology, hematology, respiratory disease, gastroenterology, metabolic disorders, endocrine disease, nutrition, disorders of the skeleton, rheumatology, diseases of the skin, nephrology, neurology, psychiatry, palliative medicine, infectious disease, sexually transmited disease, chemical and physical injuries and environmental factors and disease, geratology and finally forensic medicine. Each section will usually have many chapters with specific subjects.<BR>Looking in depths at the first and last chapters we found a good review with practical applications to every day clinical life. Looking at other chapters with questions in our daily clinical activities, during this review period, we found an international approach, readable, informative chapters and a good practical index. We think the editors have done a hard, but wonderful job, which will benefit many students and young phycicians in general medicine and practice. The Concise Oxford textbook of medicine should be a good choice for the medical student, the busy hospital physician or the general practitioner in family medicine.<BR>Profesor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc<BR>Director, National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Schneider Children&#8217;s Medical Center of Israel, Sackler Schol of Medicine, Tel Aviv University and Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. <BR>Mohammed Morad, MD<BR>Family Physician, Department of Family Medicine, Ben Gurion University,<BR>Box 653, IL-84105 Beer-Sheva, Israel. E-mail: morad-62@barak-online.net	2001-08-30
US	45317921	R14MOMCM3NZPIX	0471988707	848746162	International Textbook of Obesity	Books	4	3	3	N	N	International textbok of obesity	Childhood and adolescent obesity presents one of the most challenging and frustrating problems in medical practice. Obesity has particular concern, because of the health risk associated with it, such as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, pulmonary and renal problems, surgical risks and degenerative joint disease. All in all obesity causes significant morbidity and also a decreased life-expectancy.<BR>Obesity is a major public health problem and recent data from the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) in United States suggest that 22 % of children and adolescents are overweight and 11 % obese. Concerning overweight among the general population the survey revealed that between 1987 to 1993 the overweight prevalence increased 3.3 % for men and 3.6 % for women. The total overweight prevalence among American male is now 33 % and for females 36 %.<BR>This is an impressive book on a subject that is \\"close to our stomach\\". It is devided into six parts: Epidemiology, diagnosis, appetite regulation and obesity prevention, pathogenesis and types of obesity, complications and management with a total of 35 chapter written by 63 international experts from numorous professions. The editor is professor at the University of Gottenburg in Sweden with an interesting review chapter on the centralization of body far, besides from his imortant role as editor.<BR>The layout is good, the chapters easy to read and the editor did an excellent work in order to give an up-to-date review of this field with perspectives for further research and interventions. We very much liked the idea of including e-mail addresses in the list of authors for further personal communication with each author. We would like to see separate chapters on obesity in children and adolescents, in persons with intellectual disability and in persons with Down syndrome in the next edition.<BR>This book will become a resource book for professionals working in the area of clinical, research and academic work in the field of obesity. ...	2001-08-29
US	45317921	R3UK9KLGCAEFUP	0195216016	774781339	Can Anyone Hear Us?: Voices of the Poor (World Bank Publication)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Voices of the poor - Can anyone hear us ?	Several studies from Europe have over time shown that children growing up in poverty have long lasting effects on their physical and mental health, medical service utilization and criminal behavior. Poverty is even today in developed countries like United States and Israel (about 25% of children living in poverty) a major public health problem of a magnitude that is markedly different than Scandinavian countries (3%). The official poverty rate for children (the proportion of those poor) in the United States declined sharply between 1960-69, had an upward trend between 1969-93 with a steady figure around 20%, since 1981. In 1996, the federal government counted 20.5% of the children poor, 18.3% of those 6-17 years of age and 22.7% of all those under six years of age. In 1996, 16.3% of all White children were living in poverty, 39.9% of all Black children and 40.3% of all Hispanic children. This book is the first in a series of three books on &#8220;Voices of the Poor&#8221; with information gathered from the views, experiences and aspirations of over 60,000 poor women and men from 60 countries. This first bring the cry from 40,000 poor persons in 50 countries. It is devided in seven chapters: Listening, definitions, state institutions, civil society institutions, gender relations in the household, social fragmentation and the conclusion with ways forward. The work has been undertaken under the auspices of the World Bank. In the pages of this book you will find testimony to the poor people of this world, their hunger and pain, but also strength and resilience, which will point the way forward. We can see the need for further research into the effects of poverty on child development, investigate resiliency, adaptive behaviors and find ways to make policy relevant research...	2001-08-28
US	45317921	RDINUP5SIV6ZD	0761976205	64062427	Emotional Disorders and Learning Disabilities in the Elementary Classroom: Interactions and Interventions	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Emotional disorders and learning disabilities	The author, Jean Cheng Gorman, is a licensed psychologist with a doctorate in Child and School Psychology from New York University and research interests in the emotional health and learning disabilities in children, but has also published on Chinese methods of parenting and culturally sensitive parenting programs. About 25% of the children today have some kind of learning disability with more prevalence among boys than girls and most child health clinicians will not have the time or skill to be directly involved in the assessment or management, but can play a key role in the screening, referring and helping the parents. This book is devided into two parts with an overview of learning disabilities and classroom interventions. The seven chapters are based on research with very practical interventions and advice for teachers in an easy to read, easy to understand and with a nice layout. We especially liked the introductions to each chapter with small and wise citations like: There is very little access to the brain when the heart is in pain or Laughter is better. We believe this book to be a good practical resource for teachers working with children with learning disabilities....	2001-08-25
US	45317921	R3DOM83SRNAFGL	076191370X	879377777	Handbook for Child Protection Practice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Handbook for child protection practice	This handbook is edited by Howard Dubowitz, professor of Pediatrics at the University of Maryland School of Medicine with many years of experience in the field of child abuse and neglect, and Diane DePanfils, assistant professor at the University of Maryland School of Social Work, with more than 25 years of child welfare experience in social work. The book is devided into ten sections with a logical sequence from disclosure through the various pathways of the child protection system: Reporting and screening, Engagement, Interviewing, Initial assessment, Family assessment, Service planning, Intervention, Evaluation and closure, Legal and ethical issues and lastly Child protection practice with special issues for the practitioner. There is a total of 124 chapters, each one short and to the point with useful information for the professional. There is a total of 77, all American, contributors from a multiprofessional background. We liked the idea of a list of editors and contributors and their affiliations, but would have liked to have an e-mail address also, in these cyber space times. This is a handbook, not a textbook, and therefore the information in each chapter is short, but we found it usefull, informative and with good references, that will help the reader to look further if the need arises. Children with intellectual disability (ID) are at risk for exploitation both physical and sexual abuse, which is mentioned in the handbook and that is important, but we would like that the next edition change the terminology from &#8220;retarded children&#8221; to &#8220;children with&#8221; intellectual disability (which today is the intenational term) or developmental disability. This should also be reflected in the index. All in all we can recommend this handbook for professionals working in the field of child protection...	2001-08-24
US	45317921	R3OK19YHPLFBHG	0787955523	945479867	Becoming Parents: How to Strengthen Your Marriage as Your Family Grows	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Becoming parents	Pamela Jordan is an associate professor at the Department of Family and Child Nursing at the University of Washington in Seattle, who developed the &#8220;Becoming parents program&#8221;. Scott Stanley is codirector of the Center for Marital and Family Studies at the University of Denver in Colorado, who together with Howard Markman, professor of psychology at the University of Denver, have developed PREP (Prevention and Relationship Enhancement Program, which comprise chapter 1-12 in this book) and also together authored the best selling books on &#8220;Fighting for your marriage&#8221; and &#8220;A lasting promise&#8221;. The book has four major parts and a total of 16 chapters: Handling conflict and protecting you marriage, Going deeper and dealing with core issues, Relationship enhancements and maintaining the great things with the final section on Creating a healthy lifestyle. In one of the chapters the authors give us a warning: &#8220;Do not try parenting by yourselves&#8221;, which together with &#8220;It takes a village to raise a child&#8221; are both true statements that many parents can learn from. Besides from these popular statements the book is full of examples, practical advice and ideas on how to make marriage and parenthood a &#8220;better business&#8221; for you. This book is intended for first time parents and we really believe that many parents can gain from reading, studying and discussing the contents...	2001-08-24
US	45317921	R2K2EQ3JP8WOYU	0803972288	251316361	Child Abuse: Implications for Child Development and Psychopathology (Developmental Clinical Psychology and Psychiatry)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Child abuse. Implications for child development	This is the second edition of a small, but important book on the implications of child abuse for child development and psychopathology. It is written by David A Wolfe, professor of psychology and psychiatry at the University of Western Ontario in London, Canada. He has been very active in the field of child abuse and neglect with several books to his name, like Children of battered women, Preventing physical and emotional abuse of children, Alternatives to violence and Abnormal child psychology.  This book is part of the Sage Series on Developmental Clinical Psychology and Psychiatry prepared by experts in clinical child psychiatry, psychology, development and related disciplines. The focus is on the diagnosis, assesment, treatment and prevention of problems in developmental psychopathology that arise in the period from infancy through adolescence.  The book is devided into six chapters: What is child maltreatment ?, Normal and abnormal child rearing patterns, A developmental perspective of the abused child, Unraveling the causes with theory, background and multidimentional influences and the last chapter on Prevention and treatment strategies.  Since the first edition of this book (1987) there has been an explosion in child abuse research and therefore also more knowledge and background to understand the mechanisms involved. This is taken into account in this book, but also the fact that the author in the meantime had three children of his own has made this book very important for professionals working with abused and neglected children.	2001-08-21
US	45317921	R2O7XNQMUSVYL4	0761918361	57690945	Classic Papers in Child Abuse	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic papers in child abuse	The two editors, Anne Cohn Donnelly from Chicago and Kim Oates from Sydney, both known for research and teaching activity in the field of child abuse and neglect (CAN), have compiled this important book with classic papers in the field.  The book has 25 classic papers selected by the editors via a survey of a group of leaders in the field, who were asked to designate the papers or chapters that they felt had influenced them in their work and to the child protection field as a whole. The results were send to a wider international group, who were asked to rank the chosen papers, which was then compared with a search in the Science Citation Index and the Social Science Citation Index over a ten year period.   The 25 papers are listed in a cronological order, which conveys the history of child abuse and neglect discovery, awareness and work over the years 1946-89. The papers give you a multidisciplinary history of CAN from John Caffey&#8217;s article on &#8220;Multiple fractures in the long bones of infants suffering from chronic subdural hematoma&#8221; from 1946, when CAN was not yet &#8220;discovered&#8221; and unthinkable to the medical profession, to the last article by Cathy Spatz Widom on &#8220;Does violence beget violence ? A critical examination of the literature&#8221; in 1989.  Each article is introduced by the editors with comments by 25 international clinicians, researchers or academics. The editors have done a fine job on this book, but permit us a few commentaries. We would have liked to have seen each paper starting out with the original abstract and reference. We would also have liked a little more information on the personalities behind the papers and some more history for the ones not personally involved in this history, like the story around the classic paper by C Henry Kempe on the &#8220;Battered child syndrome&#8221; from 1962, which in fact was compiled by one of his students and later &#8220;re-found&#8221; by Henry in a shoebox and published in order to make the professional world aware of abused and neglected children. Next year the International Congress on CAN will celebrate the 40 years of CAN work in Denver, where Henry was the chairman of Pediatrics.  We believe this book will be a must for every professional entering the field of child abuse and neglect in order to learn the thinking of these early researchers, the history and progress in a field that has expanded enormously in the last 50 years....	2001-08-19
US	45317921	R160OZYCFZRJC8	1587860007	363974741	The Language of Teenagers: Words to Remember (Blue Mountain Arts Collection)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The language of teenagers	This is a gift book to honor the journey to adulthood with 42 poems chosen from a variety of cultures and eras. The poems and writings  express love, encouragement and support from parents to their teenager moving into adulthood.  The cover of the book is made out of handmade paper crafted from mulberry trees, with real flower petals, grasses, leaves and bark embedded in the paper. This old technique is used in order not to cut down trees or harming the environment.  Here we will just give one example of  the 42 poems by selecting the one by Jean Lamey:<br /> Within you is an ideal  a voice of youth  and a promise of achivement  still to come.  Within yor hands  are special gifts and talents.  Within your mind is the  source of your dreams...  Within you is the promise  of the future,  and I believe in you.<br />A nice and special small gift. The Blue Mountain Press has other books in the same series, like The language of love, The language of happiness.	2001-06-10
US	45317921	R1G05IM1EVVUJ7	1563680688	973175295	Judaism and Disability: Portrayals in Ancient Texts from the Tanach through the Bavli	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Judaism and disability	In this book you will find a review of the Jewish Bible or also called Tanach, the Mishna and the Talmud as it relates to disability. In the last chapter reference will also be given to more recent Jewish scholars and their work (Mishneh Torah, Zohar, Arbaah Turim and Shulhan Aruch).   The author of this book is a female rabbi and founder of Maqom, a school for adult Talmud study in Houston, Texas. The book was published a few years ago, but it is still relevant today and will be for years to come, as a classic study of disability in Judaism.  The book is devided into seven chapters (Introduction, Priestly perfection, Persons with disabilities, symbolism and collective Israel, Disabilities, atonement and individuals, Body, soul and society, Categorization, disabilities and persons with disabilities and finally The river flows on) with the focus to study the way disability affected Cohanim (priests) and their function in the Temple, how persons with disability were used as symbols of collective Israel, how individual life stories sometimes became literally object lessons in theology, how persons with disability were looked upon in Judaism and surrounding cultures and how the person with disability was categorized. One of the fundamental principles in understanding disability and Judaism is the term da&#8217;at (knowledge, understanding, intellect, cognition or consciousness). A person will have to have this in order to perform duties in Judaism, the person will have to be able to act upon his da&#8217;at and to put his da&#8217;at into action in the context of the society. The katan (the minor), cheresh (the person with hearing and speaking disabilities) and the shoteh (the mental ill, the intellectually disabled, the fool) are all in the same category of persons without da&#8217;at and therefore unable to perform a lot of duties in Judaism. You will in this book find these terms defined, discussed and related in detail.  Throughout the book you will find very illustrative comparisons to life today in order to explain sometimes difficult concepts for the modern person not engaged in religious life. Like the comparison between the Marines and the Cohanim. Every American, at least, have heard the phrase &#8220;The Few, the Proud, the Marines&#8221; to give you a picture of  the basic concept of able combat soldiers. When compared to the Cohanim, who also had to be an elite in a dangerous environment with many rituals and duties to perform in the Temple, it is easier to understand, why there were restrictions on who could perform this Holy Duty and therefore perfection without disability. In this bok it comes out that Judaism and Jewish Law have had a very functional approach to disability and intellectual disability with a flexible view on the complex issues involved during a long history.  I would recommended this book for scholars, for students and persons interested in Judaism, it is well researched, with valuable notes and a good index. I was looking for some more information on the impact on modern Jewish life both in America, but especially in Israel after the establishment of a modern Jewish State, but I guess we have to wait for another book on that subject.     <br />Joav Merrick, MD, DMSC  Professsor of Child Health and Human Developemnt Medical Director  Division for Mental Retardation	2001-06-10
US	45317921	R14H11FM5MLC0O	0471244066	635530786	Handbook of Clinical Child Psychology	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Handbook of clinical child psychology	This is indeed the \\"Bible\\" for the clinical child psychologist. As a pediatrician, who through all my professional life have worked closely with child psychologists, permit me to review this very serious and professional handbook. It is edited by C Eugene Walker from Oklahoma and Michael C Roberts from Kansas with 114 contributors (all from United States). The first edition of the handbook was published 18 years ago and it has since turned into a reference and guide for students, adademics and clinicians in the field.  The book is divided into seven sections with a total of 55 chapters. The first section deals with child development and the first chapter with families and children in history with a focus on American history, but I especially liked the chapter by Judith A Chafel and Kathryn Gold Hadley on poverty and well-being of children and their families. This is a new addition to this edition, but a very important one. Poverty and hunger are old phenomena, but only recently become a subject of research and interest to politicians. They should be interested, because poverty is a major public health problem in many developed countries. Data from 1996 in the United States estimate that 20.5% of the children were living in poverty. This well researched paper will give you information on definition of poverty, effects on development, health and psychosocial risks, resiliency and implications for clinical intervention.  Section two provides different diagnostic assessments of children and adolescents, section three deals with problems of early life and clinical problems of birth, neonatology, infant and preschool period and section four about problems of childhood. This last section has 16 chapters with some interesting entries. I especially liked the chapter on mental retardation, which takes into account the 1992 American Association on Mental Retardation (AMMR) definition of mental retardation, where not only IQ, but multidimential classification was used as a novel way to look upon mental retardation. I would have liked an entry on the use of the word \\"mental retardation\\", which is very much debated (sometimes very hotly like at the last international conference in Seattle in August 2000) and at all not in use in many parts of the world, where instead the term \\"intellectual disability\\" is preferred.   Section five has nine relevant chapters on adolescence, but I would like to see a chapter on teenage pregnancy in the next edition, because that is especially a problem in United States and United Kingdom, where we are talking about potential psychological risks for the next generation also. Section six conveys intervention strategies with good chapters on hospitalization and pharmacotherapy among others.  The last section has special topics like cultural issues, divorce, grief, ethics and forensic evaluation. The chapter on impact of a parent chronic illness is very interesting and I would also suggest a chapter on chronic illness or disability in the child for the next edition. This topic is mentioned in another chapter (on contemporary issues), but deserves a full chapter. The words disability and intellectual disability are not mentioned even in the index. In this section I especially like the chapter on child maltreatment by Barbara L Bonner and collegues, which is a good review of the field of child abuse and neglect, but again the focus in on the United States and international work in the field not mentioned. A chapter on research in child psychology and the use of internet should be added for the next edition. The effects of the internet on children and adolescents should also be added. We recently had a case here in Israel, where an internet connection between two adolescents (a Jewish male and Arab female) were used by terrorists to capture and murder the 14 year old boy.  I would have liked to see a section eight with chapters on the future of infancy, childhood and adolescence both in the United States, but also achapter on international work and research in the field of child psychology.  All in all a very positive review for a very useful handbook that can be used by both psychologists, psychiatrists, social workers and physicians and thanks for a good editing job. It was a pleasure to read and use this handbook.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-03-23
US	45317921	R35237GUX272FN	1853028088	815442524	A Positive Approach to Autism	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A positive approach to autism	This is indeed a very positive book by Stella Waterhouse, who has spend many years teaching children with learning disabilities and emotional problems, but after providing residential care and training to teenagers with autism, she began research that resulted in this publication.  The book is divided into eight chapters. The first is a historic review of autism followed by theories and ideas with examples from the various schools of thought about autism. These thoughts are then analysed and discussed resulting in several hypotheses. It is proposed that there are different types of autisme: perceptual autism or Asperger's syndrome, reactive autism or reactive Asperger's syndrome, delayed Asperger's syndrome and OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder), induced autism, frontal lobe syndrome and secondary autism.   The following chapters deal with the various diagnostic tools, treatment alternatives and implications for education, residential care, family and spouses. There are also some very useful additions, such as glossary and addresses.  The argument of the book is that children with autism are not mentally handicapped, but rather normal children, whose problems leave them isolated and unable to express or understand even their own feelings due to a special response to anxiety.  An interesting review for parents or professionals working with autism.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-03-15
US	45317921	R1T79C4USJUNUE	1853028088	815442524	A Positive Approach to Autism	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A positive approach to autism	This is indeed a very positive book by Stella Waterhouse, who has spend many years teaching children with learning disabilities and emotional problems, but after providing residential care and training to teenagers with autism, she began research that resulted in this publication.  The book is divided into eight chapters. The first is a historic review of autism followed by theories and ideas with examples from the various schools of thought about autism. These thoughts are then analysed and discussed resulting in several hypotheses. It is proposed that there are different types of autisme: perceptual autism or Asperger's syndrome, reactive autism or reactive Asperger's syndrome, delayed Asperger's syndrome and OCD (obsessive compulsive disorder), induced autism, frontal lobe syndrome and secondary autism.   The following chapters deal with the various diagnostic tools, treatment alternatives and implications for education, residential care, family and spouses. There are also some very useful additions, such as glossary and addresses.  The argument of the book is that children with autism are not mentally handicapped, but rather normal children, whose problems leave them isolated and unable to express or understand even their own feelings due to a special response to anxiety.  An interesting review for parents or professionals working with autism.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation	2001-03-15
US	45317921	R3465O2GUHNCNQ	0471362565	220277657	Game Play: Therapeutic Use of Childhood Games	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Game play	This is the second edition of an important book, first published in 1986 and edited by Charles Schaefer, professor of psychology from the Fairleigh Dickinson University and Steven Reid, who is in private practice in New York.  Games are a very important part of child development and there are some of us, who will never stop playing games, even in adulthood.  Games can be played by the person for his or her own enjoyment, but it is also a tool of communication between the professional or therapist and the child, adolescent or client. It is essential in play therapy and the first edition was very helpful in the new classification of how games were used in therapy to further development and emotional growth: communication games, problem-solving games, ego-enhancing games and socialization games.  The first edition catalyzed specialization in the field of game play therapy and this second edition is devided into five parts: Games to elicit communication and fantasy expression, using traditional games in child therapy, game play for children in crisis, therapeutic games for children with ADHD and teaching social skills through games. This second text is therefore an illustration of how this field has undergone a specialization in evaluation and problem solving of many problems of childhood and adolescence. I especially found the chapter by Steven Reid on \\"Therapeutic use of card games with learning disabled children\\" and the chapter by Billie Corder on \\"Using games and game play in group therapy with sexually abused children and adolescents\\" worth reading both due to its review, case story and practical approach. This textbook is recommended to mental  health clinicians (psychologists, social workers, nurses, psychiatrists) working with children and adolescents.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R3EF9NS3U6N38P	0789002272	579908049	Bridging Worlds: Understanding and Facilitating Adolescent Recovery from the Trauma of Abuse	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Bridging worlds	This book written by two social workers from Colorado with its many case stories will make you understand better the consequences of child abuse and neglect. You will also learn about the CASTT (Child Abuse Specific Treatment of Trauma) model for adolescent recovery from traumatic stress and the book finish with the story of Victor Hugo's story of Jean Valjean and his relationship with the wise Bishop of Digne.	2001-03-12
US	45317921	RPIQJURVS8YSS	0789008203	910179839	Children Exposed to Domestic Violence: Current Issues in Research, Intervention, Prevention, and Policy Development	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Children exposed to domestic violence	This book, also published as a special issue in the Journal of Aggression , Maltreatment and Trauma (2000;3(1)), is an important addition to the texts on child abuse and domestic violence. Robert Geffner is a professor of psychology at the California School of Professional Psychology (and the editor of the Haworth book series on maltreatment), Peter Jaffe the director of the London Family Court Clinic in Ontario, Canada and Marlies Sudermann clinical professor at the University of Western Ontario Department of Psychology. There are 36 contributors from nursing, social work , law, psychology and education, but medicine seems to have been left our, inspite of family violence being an interdisciplinary field.  The book has twenty chapters with a used friendly index that will help the student find relevant information. Due to the contributors the focus is on social, law and psychology issues with experiences from the United States, Canada and New Zealand.  All in all a book that should be on the shelves of professionals involved with assessment, treatment and prevention of child abuse and neglect....	2001-03-12
US	45317921	RGR7MY56JVE6U	0789002566	247896634	From Surviving to Thriving: A Therapist's Guide to Stage II Recovery for Survivors of Childhood Abuse	Books	4	1	2	N	N	From surviving to thriving	This book is written by Mary Bratton, a psychotherapist from Toledo in Ohio. It will help the victim to turn into a survivor and continue life with new strength. It is a practical book helping abused children with the hard, long and stressful healing process of returning to life and self-esteem. A very helpful guide for the therapist working with survivors of childhood abuse and neglect.............	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R3AII0T8RTSR86	078900819X	284133624	Maltreatment in Early Childhood: Tools for Research-Based Intervention	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Maltreatment in early childhood	This book was also published as a special issue in the Journal of Aggression, Maltreatment and Trauma (1999:2(2)) edited by Kathleen Faller, a professor of social work at the University of Michigan and Robin VanderLaan, a social worker affiliated with the San Diego Children's Hospital Center for Child Protection.  The book is devided into sections on \\"Interviewing techniques\\", \\"Forensic issues\\" and \\"Intervention in child maltreatment cases\\" with much relevant information on the clinical work with abused children, but as the main editor notes that today in United States children may be protected from maltreatment, but other fundamental rights and needs are not yet in place (poverty, lack of health care, inadequate education). A book recommended for professionals working in the field of child abuse and neglect.    Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R1VBUOEYWYAGHE	0789002000	559532178	Breaking the Silence: Group Therapy for Childhood Sexual Abuse, A Practitioner's Manual	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Breaking the silence	This practitioners's guide to group therapy in child sexual abuse is written by a psychologist in private practice in New Jersey.It has seven chapters and practical additions with needs assessment surveys, weekly evaluation questionnaires for group leaders and survivors.  Judith Margolin has made a very instructive step-by-step fifteen session program for adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse and many therapists will benifit from reading it................	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R2ADTQHU4IJ3NQ	0789004321	45315849	Cedar House: A Model Child Abuse Treatment Program	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cedar House	This book is a description of a program established in 1974 at Long Beach California by the founders. It is a reflection of their pioneer work at a time, when there was very little experience with the treatment of abusing families.  The authors started out as unlicensed social workers, but in this historic account you feel that they learned a lot from each other, their co-workers and their clients.  This experience can be of benifit to others working with child abuse and neglect.  <br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD....	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R29H8FJKGUKTLG	0789008203	910179839	Children Exposed to Domestic Violence: Current Issues in Research, Intervention, Prevention, and Policy Development	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Children exposed to domestic violence	This book, also published as a special issue in the Journal of Aggression , Maltreatment and Trauma (2000;3(1)), is an important addition to the texts on child abuse and domestic violence. Robert Geffner is a professor of psychology at the California School of Professional Psychology (and the editor of the Haworth book series on maltreatment), Peter Jaffe the director of the London Family Court Clinic in Ontario, Canada and Marlies Sudermann clinical professor at the University of Western Ontario Department of Psychology. There are 36 contributors from nursing, social work , law, psychology and education, but medicine seems to have been left our, inspite of family violence being an interdisciplinary field.  The book has twenty chapters with a used friendly index that will help the student find relevant information. Due to the contributors the focus is on social, law and psychology issues with experiences from the United States, Canada and New Zealand.  All in all a book that should be on the shelves of professionals involved with assessment, treatment and prevention of child abuse and neglect.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-03-12
US	45317921	R3EZ5WS32CHD22	1853029211	358045376	Survival Strategies for Parenting Children with Bipolar Disorder: Innovative Parenting and Counseling Techniques for Helping Children with Bipolar Disorder and the Conditions that May Occur with It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Children with bipolar disorder	The author, George Lynn, is a certified medical health counselor, who has pioneered the usage of psychotherapy for adults and children with neuropsychological issues. When is own son was diagnosed with Tourette syndrome in 1991, he realized that personality can be powerfully impacted by brain chemestry independent of environment.  Bipolar disorder, extreme mood cycling between a hyperenergized, grandiose, elevated mood and deep depression, has been know in adults, but only recently recognized in children. It can be a disorder on its own or in association with for example Aspergers syndrome, Tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).  The book has 14 chapters arranged into five sections: Bipolar disorder in children, Asper syndrome and bipolar disorder in teens, soothing the hurt of Tourette syndrome and bipolar disorder, ADHD and its extremes and finally hard decisions on schools, professionals, psychiatric hospitals and police involvement. In the appendix you will also find ten websites for families of children with bipolar disorder and related conditions.  The book is orientated for parents, but I believe many professionals can find helpful tips and information.........	2001-02-09
US	45317921	R18DP297X6P7MO	1853029211	358045376	Survival Strategies for Parenting Children with Bipolar Disorder: Innovative Parenting and Counseling Techniques for Helping Children with Bipolar Disorder and the Conditions that May Occur with It	Books	4	31	33	N	N	Children with bipolar disorder	The author, George Lynn, is a certified medical health counselor, who has pioneered the usage of psychotherapy for adults and children with neuropsychological issues. When is own son was diagnosed with Tourette syndrome in 1991, he realized that personality can be powerfully impacted by brain chemestry independent of environment.  Bipolar disorder, extreme mood cycling between a hyperenergized, grandiose, elevated mood and deep depression, has been know in adults, but only recently recognized in children. It can be a disorder on its own or in association with for example Aspergers syndrome, Tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).  The book has 14 chapters arranged into five sections: Bipolar disorder in children, Asper syndrome and bipolar disorder in teens, soothing the hurt of Tourette syndrome and bipolar disorder, ADHD and its extremes and finally hard decisions on schools, professionals, psychiatric hospitals and police involvement. In the appendix you will also find ten websites for families of children with bipolar disorder and related conditions.  The book is orientated for parents, but I believe many professionals can find helpful tips and information.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-02-09
US	45317921	RLLQ6741A9W5D	0130832839	492964539	Characteristics of Emotional and Behavioral Disorders of Children and Youth (7th Edition)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Emotional and behavioral disorders of children and youth	This is an impressive book in its seventh edition since 1977 and used as an introductory text in special education on the subject of children and youth with emotional and behavioral disorders. It is also impressive, because the publisher has developed a companion website accompanying the book with resources for the professor and the student ([...]  The website is divided according to the chapters of the book with focus questions, multiple choice questions and web resources. The user will also find a message board and a chat room for communication with other students and professors. For the professor there is a syllabus manager in order to create and modify an online syllabus for their courses.  The book has 18 chapters arranged with the text arranged around basic concepts like the nature, extent and history of the problem and conceptual approaches to it, assessment of the problem, major causal factors, the many facets of disordered emotions and behavior and each chapter ending with personal statement or reflections by someone else that the author, about teaching pupils with these disorders.  I especially liked the history chapter of special education for students with emotional and behavioral disorders, because history is so important for how we deal with problems today. Before 1800 most of the children and youth with emotional and behavioral disorders were looked upon as possessed, wicked or idiotic. In the 19th century teaching went from lunatic asylums and institutions for idiots to houses of refuge, detention centers and later to public school classes for truants, troublemakers and backward pupils. In the 20th century the mental hygiene and child study movements led efforts to deal more effectively with the youth at home and in school. In the 1940s psychoanalytic oriented educational programs began, 1960s and 70s saw periods of rapid growth in educational interventions and the 1980s saw new legislation.   All in all a recommended book for persons working with emotional and behavioral disorders both in children and youth.<br />Professor Joav Merrick, MD, DMSc Medical Director, Division for Mental Retardation, Box 1260, IL-91012 Jerusalem, Israel. E-mail: jmerrick@aquanet.co.il	2001-02-09
US	45317921	R2F0AGSWLBVTBJ	1853029211	358045376	Survival Strategies for Parenting Children with Bipolar Disorder: Innovative Parenting and Counseling Techniques for Helping Children with Bipolar Disorder and the Conditions that May Occur with It	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Children with bipolar disorder	The author, George Lynn, is a certified medical health counselor, who has pioneered the usage of psychotherapy for adults and children with neuropsychological issues. When is own son was diagnosed with Tourette syndrome in 1991, he realized that personality can be powerfully impacted by brain chemestry independent of environment.  Bipolar disorder, extreme mood cycling between a hyperenergized, grandiose, elevated mood and deep depression, has been know in adults, but only recently recognized in children. It can be a disorder on its own or in association with for example Aspergers syndrome, Tourette syndrome and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).  The book has 14 chapters arranged into five sections: Bipolar disorder in children, Asper syndrome and bipolar disorder in teens, soothing the hurt of Tourette syndrome and bipolar disorder, ADHD and its extremes and finally hard decisions on schools, professionals, psychiatric hospitals and police involvement. In the appendix you will also find ten websites for families of children with bipolar disorder and related conditions.  The book is orientated for parents, but I believe many professionals can find helpful tips and information.	2001-02-09
