US	45344448	RV7KZAFXOQ7EB	0231057016	138111261	Culture and Society: 1780-1950	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A World in Transition	Raymond Williams discusses how the idea of &quot;culture&quot; and &quot;society&quot;  evolved in England when two forces (democracy, industrialism) were undermining traditional notions of both.  Williams is a Marxist and it is clear that his analysis of Burke, Coleridge, Mill, Carlyle, Newman, Arnold etc... is directed by Marx's theory of class relationships.  The book, therefore, is both an analysis and an argument.<br /><br />  The analysis/argument is that democracy and industrialism broke down old relationships and initiated new ones.  While this shift was occuring a new kind of writer was born: the cultural critic.  The major theme of this book is the evolution of the word &quot;culture&quot; .  Before the period in question (1780-1950) the word &quot;culture&quot; was used to describe art and literature but beginning with Burke and Coleridge the word begins to be used to refer to a &quot;whole way of life&quot;.  Coleridge makes the key distinction between &quot;civilization&quot; and &quot;culture&quot;.  Coleridge uses the word &quot;civilization&quot; to describe the &quot;general progress of society&quot; and he uses the word &quot;culture&quot; to express a standard of perfection independent of the progress of society that could be used &quot;not merely to influence society but to judge it.&quot;  Coleridge envisioned a class of men or &quot;clerisy&quot; whose sole task would be to tend to the cultivation of society.  The great fear in the minds of nineteenth-century educated Englishman was that democracy would lead to a dumming down of public life and that what society really needed was some class of educated individuals(Coleridge) or some heroic individual (Carlyle) to insure the continued cultivation of society.<br />  Raymond Williams is writing from a working-class perspective but he is a working-class kid who also happened to attend Cambridge.  Writing from this unique perspective allows him to identify with both the great cultural thinkers of the past and with the &quot;masses&quot; that they feared.  Coleridge and Carlyle felt that the masses were incapable of governing themselves and contributing to the continued cultivation of society(a notion that continues to inform much of modern conservastism).  Williams suggests that it is a mistake to think of men as &quot;masses&quot; and that for society to grow it must remain open, and that society must encourage individual effort from all segments of society while continuing to value and cultivate a collective way of life.  Exactly how society is to do this is explained only in vague platitudes.<br />The best and strongest part of the book is the early portion that examines the definition of &quot;culture&quot; as opposed to &quot;society&quot;. The argument gets fuzzy around the time of Matthew Arnold who could not quite decide just what constitutes  &quot;culture&quot;.  In the nineteenth-century &quot;culture&quot; is tied to religious tradition in the minds of Burke, Coleridge, Carlyle and Newman. Beginning with Arnold, however,  cultural critics attempt to define &quot;culture&quot; without reference to religion. This proves to be difficult as &quot;culture&quot; describes not only all the best that has been thought but also refers to a body of values that have been passed down and religious institutions are just as powerful, if not moreso, than economic institutions.  It is at this point when one begins to question the materialist approach to history.<br />  In his conclusion Williams discusses democracy as if it were the natural substitute for religion or even a new kind of religion. He is not altogether successful and for me the concluding chapters were much less satisfying as cultural history than were the early chapters.  This does not take away from the exceptional clarity of those early chapters.<br />The book is an excellent study of what it means to live in a world in transition and how difficult it is to properly define a &quot;common culture&quot; in a world that regularly undergoes cultural shifts.  Society struggles on between two cultural ideologies; between the religious conservatives and the liberal-democrat reformers.  In the best portion of Culture and Society Williams describes how J.S. Mill tried to find some way of melding the two ideologies into one.uot;common culture&quot; in a world that regularly undergoes cultural shifts.  Society struggles on between two cultural ideologies; between the religious conservatives and the liberal-democrat reformers.  In the best portion of Culture and Society Williams describes how J.S. Mill tried to find some way of melding the two ideologies into one.	2004-06-24
US	45344448	R1XD81JSRBY6CN	0691020310	726121607	Popper Selections	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Critical Rationalism	Popper's favorite philosophers are the pre-Socratics. He celebrates them for their willingness to entertain/invite/encourage alternative points of view.  The pre-Socratics sought to explain the universe ( a goal modern philososphy/science has lost sight of) but no one theory was viewed as absolute, rather each theory was viewed as a proposition that could then be honed/improved/altered by further argument/inquiry.  This spirit of inquiry begins to vanish around the time of Plato and Aristotle for their teachings begin to be passed down not as theories that can be improved upon (modified or dismissed) but as knowledge.  For Popper reverence for &quot;great men&quot; and &quot;great ideas&quot; only stands in the way of pluralism and progress.<br />Poppers method is to identify the mistakes made by the &quot;great men&quot;  and therefore clear the way for further inquiry.  Of all the western philosphers Plato receives the most attention.  Popper finds much to admire in Plato but also much that needs amending. In an essay on &quot;subjective&quot; and &quot;objective&quot; knowledge Popper evolves his idea of a third &quot;world&quot; of knowledge. This autonomous third world of knowledge is  reminiscent of Plato's theory of ideal forms with one essential difference.  For Popper all knowledge is man made and so his third world of knowledge contains not ideals(in Popper's world ideals do not exist) but &quot;problem situations&quot; -- the state of a discussion or the state of a critical argument at the present time and these &quot;states&quot; make up the &quot;objective contents of thought&quot;.<br />In the world according to Popper thought ( in the philosophic and scientific realms) evolves because a variety of thinkers make a variety of creative propositions that are then examined and found to be true or false.  Popper calls this method &quot;critical rationalism&quot;.<br /><br />In each of these essays Popper addresses a key philosophic issue and discusses it with his signature grace, eloquence and humor.  His contribution to social theory seems especially significant and on this topic he is especially eloquent.  Being no great believer in the great man theory of history and knowing full well that all of mans ideas as well as social theories are riddled with mistakes Popper thinks the best way to advance socially is in a piecemeal fashion. This limits the harm any one man or theory or institution can do.  For Popper society like philosophy and knowledge is the result of an ever renewed inquiry.<br /> This is clearsighted and jargon free writing and these are model essays!es it with his signature grace, eloquence and humor.  His contribution to social theory seems especially significant and on this topic he is especially eloquent.  Being no great believer in the great man theory of history and knowing full well that all of mans ideas as well as social theories are riddled with mistakes Popper thinks the best way to advance socially is in a piecemeal fashion. This limits the harm any one man or theory or institution can do.   For Popper society like philosophy and knowledge is the result of an ever renewed inquiry.   <br /> This is clearsighted and jargon free writing and these are model essays!	2004-06-18
US	45344448	RI8Y5MP9RF0VD	0393323633	76641470	Schnitzler's Century: The Making of Middle-Class Culture 1815-1914	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Biography as History, History as Biography	Peter Gay's choice of Arthur Schnitlzer is an interesting one. After all when we think of Victorian literary figures we usually think of the essayists Carlyle, Ruskin, Arnold; poets Tennyson and Browning; and  novelist Dickens.  \\"Schnitlzer\\" is not a name that readily comes to mind to most readers when speaking of the Victorians. He wrote plays and stories and novels which are rarely read today but Gay is not really interested in taking a measure of Schnitzlers literary achievements. What interests Gay about the Viennese author is not his official output but his private output as Schnitlzer kept extensive diaries. For Gay these diaires offer a glimpse into the private life of the Victorian. Gay quotes liberally from Schnitzlers diaries because after all its the unofficial history of the Victorians that Gay is really interested in. We are all familiar with the public record of the time and the cliches about the Victorian mind set but Gay wants to peel back those cliches and have a look at the Victorian with his gaurd down -- he wants to tell us what the middle-class Victorians really thought and how they really behaved.  The diary gives Gay access to the private mind and conscience behind the Victorian facade. One of Gay's points is that there is no typical  \\"Victorian\\" really and that the much disparaged middle-class is really a much more diversified and conflicted group than many historians would lead you to believe.  Schnitzler is not exactly a representative Victorian. In many ways he is a figure (roughly contemporary with Freud) who tells us more about the century to come than the one he was born into. Like Freud he is concerned less with the general goings-on within society than he is with the goings-on within his own and his characters minds -- their hidden motivations etc.....<br />Schnitzler's mind appeals to Gay because Gay himself is a Freudian and his history is an attempt to reveal the hidden motivations(anxieties , fears, aggressions, desires) driving the age.  Gay is a consummate historian however and he never lets his Freudian interests lead him into speculative corners -- he supports every point with lively data and convincingly shows us that the Victorians are a largely misunderstood people. We assume they were overly shy about sex but Gay gathers plenty of evidence to counter this assumption. Schnitlzer himself seems to have thought of little else as he moved from one conquest to another.  Whether we are to assume that Schnitzler is a typical Victorian or not seems to be beside the point because what Gay wants us to see is that any generalization that we make about the Victorians will quickly be undone by evidence to the contrary.  This is not a \\"biography\\" of Schnitzler and it is not a typical \\"history\\" of the Victorians or middle-class. Rather this is an interdisciplinary work which blends biography and history. Schnitzler's Century uses one discipline to challenge the other and in so doing offers fresh insight into both.<br />In addition to \\"sex\\" two other topics are given extensive consideration: the \\"gospel\\" of work, and religion.<br />A rewarding work.age.  Gay is a consummate historian however and he never lets his Freudian interests lead him into speculative corners -- he supports every point with lively data and convincingly shows us that the Victorians are a largely misunderstood people. We assume they were overly shy about sex but Gay gathers plenty of evidence to counter this assumption. Schnitlzer himself seems to have thought of little else as he moved from one conquest to another.  Whether we are to assume that Schnitzler is a typical Victorian or not seems to be beside the point because what Gay wants us to see is that any generalization that we make about the Victorians will quickly be undone by evidence to the contrary.   This is not a \\"biography\\" of Schnitzler and it is not a typical \\"history\\" of the Victorians or middle-class. Rather this is an interdisciplinary work which blends biography and history. Schnitzler's Century uses one discipline to challenge the other and in so doing offers fresh insight into both. <br />In addition to \\"sex\\" two other topics are given extensive consideration: the \\"gospel\\" of work, and religion. <br />A rewarding work.	2004-03-27
US	45344448	R38W25DVAXMATN	0393006093	630233617	Natural Supernaturalism: Tradition and Revolution in Romantic Literature (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Cracking The Romantic Code	M.H. Abrams takes his title from Carlyle's Sartor Resartus and though he shines his lamp on that work briefly, for the most part this is a critical study which focuses on the key German and English romantics (philosophers and poets)and certain formal attributes they all shared -- namely a penchant for circular structure (golden age of mans innocence/fall from innocence/redemptive return to the beginning).  What is most surprising about this study is how pervasive this circular pattern was in the romantic period. Abrams finds it in virtually every major work of philosophy and poetry in the romantic period. In doing so Abrams does not want to suggest that the romantic movement was any less revolutionary  than previously thought but that the movement was a complex one that issued forth great changes in philosophy and literature not so much by inventing new forms but by finding new validity in old forms and patterns.<br />Abrams argues that from the time of the reformation, literature and philosophy were becoming more and more secular and that the western conception of the universe was becoming more and more &quot;mechanized&quot;. In his earlier book Mirror and the Lamp Abrams traced the origins of romantic aesthetic theory and in so doing explained how the romantics reinvigorated art and philosophy by offering an &quot;organic&quot;  view of the universe to counter the mechanistic view which made man feel less and less at home and more and more alien in his world.  In Natural Supenaturalism Abrams elaborates that argument and shows in more detail just how individual romantics sought to resituate man in his universe.  The &quot;revolution&quot; initiated by the romantics was not a political one Abrams argues but a cognitive one. True freedom is attained not en masse according to Blake and Wordsworth but in solitude where one learns to see the world as it is. For Abrams Wordsworth is the penultimate romantic(other romantic scholars find Blake to be the more important figure) because his poems offer man a route to personal salvation through a private communion with nature via the imagination.  Wordsworth intentionally weds his own story to the story of mans fall from and eventual recovery of grace-- what is revolutionary is that Wordsworth suggests that man must not wait for the apocaplypse to be redeemed but can find redemption in this world and all by way of the sympathetic imagination.  In the Preludes Wordsworth offers his own life story (and his own aesthetic theory) which is the story of one mans attempt to wed himself to nature and thus recover the natural affinity he felt for nature as a child albeit in a higher way with greater awareness. For Abrams it is the central story of romanticism and one that  has a continuing influence on literary output.  Though each romantic made use of the circular pattern, each did so in his own unique way and for scholars the real interest of the book will be in tracing the genesis and studying the particularities of each cosmogony and there are many offered here(Schelling, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche......), (Blake, Coleridge, Shelley, Hazlitt....).<br />Wordsworth placed a great emphasis on &quot;memory&quot;--for this was the thing that connected him to that first grace he knew in childhood-- in recovering his own version of paradise and so Abrams finds Proust to be Wordsworth's most direct heir.  More generally Abrams finds that the circular pattern first found in classic mythology and the bible as well as in that first  western autobiography - -St. Augustine Confessions-- continues to be a powerful model for writers as diverse as TS Eliot(Four Quartets) and DH Lawrence to name just two. Abrams finds the romantic rediscovery and revitalization of this circular pattern to be a key aspect of romanticism and the romantic legacy.figure) because his poems offer man a route to personal salvation through a private communion with nature via the imagination.  Wordsworth intentionally weds his own story to the story of mans fall from and eventual recovery of grace-- what is revolutionary is that Wordsworth suggests that man must not wait for the apocaplypse to be redeemed but can find redemption in this world and all by way of the sympathetic imagination.  In the Preludes Wordsworth offers his own life story (and his own aesthetic theory) which is the story of one mans attempt to wed himself to nature and thus recover the natural affinity he felt for nature as a child albeit in a higher way with greater awareness. For Abrams it is the central story of romanticism and one that  has a continuing influence on literary output.  Though each romantic made use of the circular pattern, each did so in his own unique way and for scholars the real interest of the book will be in tracing the genesis and studying the particularities of each cosmogony and there are many offered here(Schelling, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche......), (Blake, Coleridge, Shelley, Hazlitt....).  <br />Wordsworth placed a great emphasis on &quot;memory&quot;--for this was the thing that connected him to that first grace he knew in childhood-- in recovering his own version of paradise and so Abrams finds Proust to be Wordsworth's most direct heir.  More generally Abrams finds that the circular pattern first found in classic mythology and the bible as well as in that first  western autobiography - -St. Augustine Confessions-- continues to be a powerful model for writers as diverse as TS Eliot(Four Quartets) and DH Lawrence to name just two. Abrams finds the romantic rediscovery and revitalization of this circular pattern to be a key aspect of romanticism and the romantic legacy.	2004-03-13
US	45344448	R3MUWMB5NB67W	0300001223	345256584	The Victorian Frame of Mind, 1830-1870 (Yale Paperbound, Y-99)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	The Pragamatic and Uncertain Victorians	This book could just as well be called The Modern Frame of Mind or more generally The Western Frame of Mind for the issues that perplexed and divided the Victorians have always perplexed and divided westerners and continue to do so. Religion and Science have never been compatible realms of thought and western civilization has always been marked by an unresolved tension between the two.  The eighteenth-century is often refered to as the Age of Reason but reason alone does not fulfill all of mans needs and the Romantic period that followed marked a return to faith and feeling. The Victorian Age is marked by a restless search to find a balance between the reasoning head and the feeling heart and soul. Houghton sees the English as a very pragmatic people and though he is careful to show that on no issue did any two Victorians think alike, he does  show that the English shared certain habits of mind.  Houghton does not mention Nationalism by name but that word was constantly in my mind as I read this book for Houghton shows that the English were aware that they shared certain characteristics with each other which made them distinct from say the French.  After 1789 the English saw the French as nation destroyers while they saw themselves as nation builders -- the fact that they defeated the French and presided over the building of the largest empire the world had ever known made them acutely aware that they were part of a special breed. The most famous men of the age did not merely speak to the English masses but preached to them -- and that tone and style of speaking is perhaps even more important and revealing than the actual substance of what they were saying for the English felt they were on a mission. Precislely what kind of mission they were on was impossible to say with any certainty but for a spell the Victorians felt they were a model nation and thus the nation in the best position to mold other nations. This confidence or arrogance peaked around mid-century and by centuries end Englands moment had passed as other nations(USA &amp; Germany) began to dominate the world stage. Historians explain empires in a number of ways, Houghton however is not the kind of historian to make any sweeping generalizations. How such a small island nation could come to rule the globe is something he never tries to answer.  He confines himself to analyzing the Victorians patterns of thought for it is the Victorian personality that captures his interest. This is the kind of thoroughly researched book(Houghton quotes from every major text of the era) that gives you a look into the workings of a half dozen exemplary personalities and how they worked through the issues of the day for themselves. Houghton gives extended consideration to the works of Carlyle, Ruskin,Arnold, Mill, Tennyson, Browning, Dickens, &amp;Eliot but he quotes from other lesser lights as well.  My personal favorite from this era is John Stuart Mill and the man who introduced the pragmatic Victorians to French Fiction, Walter Pater.  Houghton's strength is when he concentrates on the men and women of letters but he is slightly less successful when he deals with what life was like for the average Victorian. Houghton portrays the English as a people in search of a creed and the writers of the age as men who tried to fashion a creed for them. For me the men of letters come across loud and clear but I wanted more concerning the life of the common man and woman  ie how many Victorians actually read Carlyle, Arnold etc.....<br />Also recommended: Asa Brigg's Age of Improvement(this classic scholarly 500 page  book is especially good at dealing with economics, social dynamics, and the goings-on within Parliament) &amp; G.M. Young's Portrait of an Age(this 200 page book especially good at giving you an overview of the entire age-- Young's approach is less scholarly than modern students might be used to but he integrates a lot of information into a short and immensely readable book).by centuries end Englands moment had passed as other nations(USA &amp; Germany) began to dominate the world stage. Historians explain empires in a number of ways, Houghton however is not the kind of historian to make any sweeping generalizations. How such a small island nation could come to rule the globe is something he never tries to answer.  He confines himself to analyzing the Victorians patterns of thought for it is the Victorian personality that captures his interest. This is the kind of thoroughly researched book(Houghton quotes from every major text of the era) that gives you a look into the workings of a half dozen exemplary personalities and how they worked through the issues of the day for themselves. Houghton gives extended consideration to the works of Carlyle, Ruskin,Arnold, Mill, Tennyson, Browning, Dickens, &amp;Eliot but he quotes from other lesser lights as well.  My personal favorite from this era is John Stuart Mill and the man who introduced the pragmatic Victorians to French Fiction, Walter Pater.  Houghton's strength is when he concentrates on the men and women of letters but he is slightly less successful when he deals with what life was like for the average Victorian. Houghton portrays the English as a people in search of a creed and the writers of the age as men who tried to fashion a creed for them. For me the men of letters come across loud and clear but I wanted more concerning the life of the common man and woman  ie how many Victorians actually read Carlyle, Arnold etc.....<br />Also recommended: Asa Brigg's Age of Improvement(this classic scholarly 500 page  book is especially good at dealing with economics, social dynamics, and the goings-on within Parliament) &amp; G.M. Young's Portrait of an Age(this 200 page book especially good at giving you an overview of the entire age-- Young's approach is less scholarly than modern students might be used to but he integrates a lot of information into a short and immensely readable book).	2004-01-26
US	45344448	R1BS7A72SLKLUB	0192810057	481310742	Portrait of an Age	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Entertaining and Informative 200 page Essay	The Victorians have always seemed to me to be a dull overly worked  people who feared the wrath of God, their neighbors, and their betters.<br />G.M. Young in his Portrait of an Age doesn't necessarily contradict that view but he does succeed at doing something I thought was impossible: he makes the Victorians seem interesting.  Young calls his book an extended essay and it has the inspired feel and pace of an essay as opposed to the wooden tone of a scholarly tome. Young writes with a casual grace that comes only when one has lived with and ruminated over the facts for a long while and his essay is  the apotheosis of a long rumination over an entire age. Every historian has a style and that style is indicative of a personality, unfortunately many historians seem to have very little in the way of either, Young fortunately has plenty of both as well that one quality that the Victorians seemed to have done without, a sense of humor. In just under 200 pages Young presents the Victorians in all their overzealous Evangelical/Utilitarian glory. The Victorians were never of one mind on anything and that is where Young really shines; he reveals the plurality that existed within an age that though peaceful and prosperous was that way not because the Victorians agreed on anything but despite their disagreements on nearly everything.  What seems to have united all of England was not any consensus about the pressing issues of the day but a sense of the past and a reverence for tradition. Not all felt that way but the majority did and so the Victorian personality is always a split one. On the one hand the Victorians were great innovators whose technological prowess enabled them to preside over a massive expansion of industry which gave them the feeling that they were the first generation of men not to be mere victims of nature but the masters of it, and, on the other hand, it is as if the Victorians feared what they had done. So there is pride and there is uncertainty in the Victorian temperament. At a time when other countries in Europe were overthrowing their monarchs the Victorians seemed uninterested in radical reform -- reform, yes, but not radical reform that would upset the existing order which they perhaps sensed was a delicate one but one worth preserving. Though radicals certainly played a part in Victorian life it was simply not in the English character to embrace political revolution or at least not in this age which was graced by an ever increasing national prestige after the defeat of Napolean, and an ever increasing economic prestige as wealth poured into the nation from an ever expanding empire. For an Englishmen to become a revolutionary in such a time  would have been foolish.  England was not perfect but many believed, at least in the early part of the century, that England was perfectible. No one really wanted to overthrow the system which obviously was working; Victorians wanted changes but they wanted to work within the existing system to effect those changes.  Age old reverence for traditions and your betters was a hard habit of mind to break for the Victorians. By the time the English did break from those old habits of mind, the age was no more.rian temperament. At a time when other countries in Europe were overthrowing their monarchs the Victorians seemed uninterested in radical reform -- reform, yes, but not radical reform that would upset the existing order which they perhaps sensed was a delicate one but one worth preserving. Though radicals certainly played a part in Victorian life it was simply not in the English character to embrace political revolution or at least not in this age which was graced by an ever increasing national prestige after the defeat of Napolean, and an ever increasing economic prestige as wealth poured into the nation from an ever expanding empire. For an Englishmen to become a revolutionary in such a time  would have been foolish.  England was not perfect but many believed, at least in the early part of the century, that England was perfectible. No one really wanted to overthrow the system which obviously was working; Victorians wanted changes but they wanted to work within the existing system to effect those changes.  Age old reverence for traditions and your betters was a hard habit of mind to break for the Victorians. By the time the English did break from those old habits of mind, the age was no more.	2004-01-12
US	45344448	R1W6OISQSS5V43	0582369592	420200122	The Age of Improvement, 1783-1867 (2nd Edition)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Perfect Study	First published in 1959 this remains an indispensible text to anyone with an interest in understanding the dynamic of one of the most misunderstood periods in English History.  Most people think of prim moralists when they think of \\"Victorians\\" but after reading Asa Briggs 500 page sociological, economic, political and cultural survey the reader will be left with a far more complex and far richer impression of the Victorians and the complex issues that obsessed and defined them.<br />This book is primarily a socio-political history and in England power has traditionally rested in the hands of the landowners.  At the time of the French Revolution very few members of Parliament believed in democracy. To both the conservative(Tory) and liberal(Whig) elements in the English Parliament the English Constitution was thought to be the best because it was government run not by the people but government run by those most qualified to run government . As the nineteenth-century progressed, however, it became impossible to deny a growing and increasingly wealthy middle class its say on election day. Change did happen but it happened very differently in England than in continental Europe. In a time when other European nations were experiencing violent revolutions England remained relatively stable and Briggs attributes this relative calm to a consistently strong English economy --for a time the worlds strongest.  Many found the repeal of the Corn Laws in 1846 (which opened the way for free trade) to be the most significant legislature of the century. Reformist leaders and movements became popular during times of recession and the 19th century saw reforms in every area of life but reform in England was always a slow and deliberate process and reformist movements faded from the national consciousness during times of recovery. The 1830's saw the deepest recessions so it is not surprising that it was in that decade that the first major constitutional reform was passed extending the right to vote to the middle class.  Many conservatives feared the move toward democracy would mean the end of England but in 1867 a second major consitutional reform extended the right to vote to the working classes. Political leaders were more often than not moderates whose main task was to maintain a balance between the various elements of Parliament which included Tories, Whigs, and Radicals.  Throughout the period government like everything else was undergoing vast changes. Democracy presented a challenge to English political tradition and Darwin presented a challenge to English belief systems but the triumph of the age was perhaps its allegiance to balance and moderation in all things which was in part due to the Evangelical spirit of the time and in part due to the Utilitarian spirit popularized by legislative and law reformer Jeremy Bentham.<br />Briggs paints a portrait of an England that sees itself as the pinnacle of civilization. The age was defined differently by its optimists and its pessimists but Briggs sets down four main features that defined both the champions and the critics of the era: work, seriousness, respectabilty, self-help.<br />Briggs quotes extensively from the prominent men and women of the day(political and cultural figures) to give us an idea of how the Victorians viewed themselves and their era.<br />The Age of Improvement<br />Chapter 1 :Economy and Society in the 1780's<br />Chapter 2: Politics and Government on the Eve of the French Revolution<br />Chapter 3: The Impact of War<br />Chapter 4:The Politics of Transition<br />Chapter 5: Reform<br />Chapter 6: Social Cleavage<br />Chapter 7:Britain and the World Overseas<br />Chapter 8: The Balance of Interests<br />Chapter 9: Victorianism<br />Chapter 10: The Leap in the Darkright to vote to the middle class.   Many conservatives feared the move toward democracy would mean the end of England but in 1867 a second major consitutional reform extended the right to vote to the working classes. Political leaders were more often than not moderates whose main task was to maintain a balance between the various elements of Parliament which included Tories, Whigs, and Radicals.  Throughout the period government like everything else was undergoing vast changes. Democracy presented a challenge to English political tradition and Darwin presented a challenge to English belief systems but the triumph of the age was perhaps its allegiance to balance and moderation in all things which was in part due to the Evangelical spirit of the time and in part due to the Utilitarian spirit popularized by legislative and law reformer Jeremy Bentham. <br />Briggs paints a portrait of an England that sees itself as the pinnacle of civilization. The age was defined differently by its optimists and its pessimists but Briggs sets down four main features that defined both the champions and the critics of the era: work, seriousness, respectabilty, self-help. <br />Briggs quotes extensively from the prominent men and women of the day(political and cultural figures) to give us an idea of how the Victorians viewed themselves and their era.   <br />The Age of Improvement <br />Chapter 1 :Economy and Society in the 1780's<BR>Chapter 2: Politics and Government on the Eve of the French Revolution<BR>Chapter 3: The Impact of War<BR>Chapter 4:The Politics of Transition<BR>Chapter 5: Reform<BR>Chapter 6: Social Cleavage<BR>Chapter 7:Britain and the World Overseas<BR>Chapter 8: The Balance of Interests<BR>Chapter 9: Victorianism<BR>Chapter 10: The Leap in the Dark	2004-01-12
US	45344448	RXSUMMAKOJXP0	0140445226	428663852	Sketches from a Hunter's Album: The Complete Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Turgenev, sportsman and ardent liberal	Turgenev effectively invents a new form -- the literary sketch -- to impart a new kind of content.  What is brilliant about these sketches which are in part nature meditation and in part biographical sketch is how Turgenev allows each character to speak for themselves. As a result we feel like we are hearing something we have never heard before -- the natural voice of the people. By allowing  people to speak for themselves Turgenev gives us a truer and more genuine idea of how people -- serf and gentry -- really think and relate. Each sketch begins with a detailed description of the natural surroundings he is walking through and these descriptions give us insight into Turgenev's cast of mind which is infintely receptive,  and discerning, even romantic and delicate at times as when he describes staring up through the forest canopy and imagining he is staring up at the world from beneath a vast body of water. These magnficent  introductions set the mood for the character sketch to come.  When he meets a serf it is as if he is merely continuing his communion with nature for the serfs live at one with the land.  When he meets one of the gentry, however, and passes time in their company he feels removed from the natural settings and people he so values.  It is a fascinating and very subtle technique but Turgenev makes the landowners seem like unnatural creatures who are disturbing the natural order. Though he is one of the gentry himself Turgenev hunts with the serfs , he values their company and conversation,  and he values what they know.  He knows them as individuals not just as serfs and so we too come to know them as individuals, each with their own personality and ideas about life and story to tell.  Since we know these sketches are from real life we listen more carefully to them than we would if they were mere inventions; real life has a resonance that fiction does not.  Given the choice of spending the day with a either serf or a landowner Turgenev would choose the serf.  The serfs have not received an education and their opinions are often shaped by superstition, and yet it is these very superstitions that make them such colorful characters, the gentry may be educated but they are full of self-importance and affectations and see everything through the limited scope of their own self-interest which is merely another form of ignorance.  Turgenev's most effective weapon is not bitter invective but irony. He never comes out and says serfdom is bad because the landowners are in some cases such vile creatures that there is no need to. By simply quoting them and describing their manners and actions Turgenev allows the landowners to do a fine job at condemning themselves.<br />The most profound sketch to my mind is \\"Yermolay and the Millers Wife\\" which relates the harsh treatment doled out to a beautiful serf woman merely because she wants to get married, and a close second is \\"Bezhin Lea\\" about a group of boys telling ghost stories around a fire as they tend a herd of horses grazing at night.  The former sketch pefectly conveys what absolute power the landowners have over every aspect of the serfs life and the latter sketch perfectly conveys how the serfs pass down their own particular brand of wisdom from one generation to the next.  Perhaps the most famous sketch however is \\"Khor and Kalinych\\" which juxtaposes two kinds of serfs--one resigned to his lot and the other who despite his status as serf finds his own kind of freedom by wandering the countryside. \\"Kasyan and the Beautiful Lands\\" is perhaps the most unusual story as it presents a sage-like man who speaks as though he were a living oracle. Deprived of education the serfs remain in thrall not only to the landowners but to ignorance as well; nonetheless there is a beauty and tragic grace in the voices of these serfs that remains in memory long after you have read these sketches. The sketches are complex and layered enough to invite you back to them again and again.<br />The biggest joy of the sketches is their casualness.  Nothing is ever overly stated or stated in black and white but everything nonetheless appears clear as day. It seems at times as if Turgenev is the only enlightened soul in Russia and yet he is absolutely civil even when with a pernicious landowner because he innately knows what is right and he trusts that we know as well. Turgenev reminds me of Thoreau in his devotions which are equally divided between nature and the forwarding of liberal ideas.  Though Pushkin and Lermontov both came before him Turgenev was the first Russian writer to achieve fame outside of Russia.  Fathers and Sons is considered his masterpiece but these sketches stand as something unique in all of literature.<br />The biggest joy of the sketches is their casualness.  Nothing is ever overly stated or stated in black and white but everything nonetheless appears clear as day. It seems at times as if Turgenev is the only enlightened soul in Russia and yet he is absolutely civil even when with a pernicious landowner because he innately knows what is right and he trusts that we know as well. Turgenev reminds me of Thoreau in his devotions which are equally divided between nature and the forwarding of liberal ideas.  Though Pushkin and Lermontov both came before him Turgenev was the first Russian writer to achieve fame outside of Russia.  Fathers and Sons is considered his masterpiece but these sketches stand as something unique in all of literature.	2003-11-17
US	45344448	R3JPQMXPM7D5I4	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	3	6	15	N	N	Mediocre Magic Realism	I think the Booker Prize (which Roy received for this book in 1998) is beginning to resemble the Oscar. A Booker Prize like an Oscar means increased even phenomenal sales and so the award has become corrupted by a number of influences(namely political) none of which provides a true measure of literary talent.<br />This author combines a lot of influences. Her writing style owes a debt to Latin America. In fact the book reads like it has been written by a student of Gabriel Garcia Marquez's. It's not quite Magical Realism but its close enough. Unlike Garcia Marquez however Roy has no sense of structure. The past and present tense seem to flow in and out of each other and in no particular direction. I suppose you could call this &quot;experimental&quot; but theres not much method to the madness.  The individual stories of at least twelve characters are told and each story would be rather simple but the stories are all shuffled together with no regard for tense and this makes the book seem much more complex than it actually is.  Also Roy seems very aware that for most of her readers India is still an extoic and faraway land and the way she describes it makes it seem like its an exotic and faraway land even to her.  In other words the imagery like the vegetation is overly ripe.  The storyteller is really more in love with the way she is telling her story than she is with her characters.  The characters are merely caricatures each conveniently outfitted with an amusing assortment of eccentricities and yet its still difficult to tell them apart because they don't really have individual voices; the only voice we hear is Arundhati Roy's.  Some of these same arguments could be railed against 100 Years of Solitude but Marquez's book is full of events and characters that are all larger-than-life and lend the book its fable-like quality and like a well constructed fable the book has mythic power in it.  Roy uses the magical realist's verbal style but she fails to give us characters and events that make an imprint on us and so her book falls somewhere short of magical realisms goal. Plus she moves forwards and backwards and sideways in time towards a central event which has been hinted at in countless ways but by the time you get to that event you are mad because all of the confusion could so easily have been avoided if she'd simply told the story, or each of the twelve stories, chronologically.  A shift of tense is a viable storytelling device but in this book Roy is guilty of gratuitous shuffling.<br />Its really not a bad book, by far not the worst I've ever read, but when you give a book a prestigious award like the Booker Prize readers like myself expect an extraordinary read and this is merely an ordinary one.cters and events that make an imprint on us and so her book falls somewhere short of magical realisms goal. Plus she moves forwards and backwards and sideways in time towards a central event which has been hinted at in countless ways but by the time you get to that event you are mad because all of the confusion could so easily have been avoided if she'd simply told the story, or each of the twelve stories, chronologically.  A shift of tense is a viable storytelling device but in this book Roy is guilty of gratuitous shuffling.  <br />Its really not a bad book, by far not the worst I've ever read, but when you give a book a prestigious award like the Booker Prize readers like myself expect an extraordinary read and this is merely an ordinary one.	2003-11-14
US	45344448	R3Q68NET7TE9K7	0865471002	825058156	Restless Nights: Selected Stories of Dino Buzzati (Restless Nights Ppr) (English and Italian Edition)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Concise and often Marvelous Stories	&quot;Deep inside Tibet a native guide offered to accompany me if by chance I wanted to see the walls of the city of Anagoor. I looked at the map, but there was no city of Anagoor.&quot; Thus begins Dino Buzzati's &quot;Walls of Anagoor&quot;.  Buzzati was a journalist and so he writes very succinct sentences which have a matter of fact feel to them. His stories are quite often no more than 4-5 pages long and even though his stories often veer into the uncharted terrain of human desire and fantasy you feel like you are reading a newspaper article and so the events and the characters actions seem perfectly plausible, perfectly within the realm of the possible, even ordinary.  And that is Buzzati's style: to make the extraordinary sound ordinary.  Even though they are each very short the stories are impossible to paraphrase because Buzzati chooses each phrase so carefully that paraphrasing would be misrepresenting his stories. He might be compared to Kafka but  Buzzati writes like no one else. Generally speaking if you categorize Buzzati he would fit in with Kafka or Camus or Borges and if you are familiar with those writers and you come to Buzzati you will be reminded in subtle ways of those others but you will also notice important differences.  Kafka often used fantasy in a negative way--to emphasize the dehumanizing nature of modern life. Buzzati uses fantasy to allow his characters a bit of release from the everday world. Even if the fantasy proves to be only an illusion Buzzati shows how people use fantasy to cope with existence. In this way he is not nearly as bleak as Kafka can sometimes be. Buzzati has a lighter touch than Kafka or Camus. You don't get that heavy sense of dread in Buzzati that you get with Camus, instead you get a sense of reality as something that each individual must construct for themselves and no reality is complete without an element of fantasy.  Buzzati seems aware that just as children need to to be told stories which challenge their imaginations and allow them to wonder so too do adults need the same thing otherwise existence becomes dull and pointless. Thus when the unnamed protaganist in &quot;The Walls of Anagoor&quot; hears from his guide of a place which may or may not exist he has no choice, he must go.<br />There are 23 stories in this collection involving everything from Einstein making a deal with death to allow him to continue working on his theories to girls falling from buildings just for fun to a crew who decides to go on building the Eiffel tower until they have risen so high they can see the Alps. O and one particularly brilliant story about a beloved doctor whose death inspires an investigation that he may not have been who he says he was -- an investigation which grows and reveals that perhaps no one is who they say they are.maginations and allow them to wonder so too do adults need the same thing otherwise existence becomes dull and pointless. Thus when the unnamed protaganist in &quot;The Walls of Anagoor&quot; hears from his guide of a place which may or may not exist he has no choice, he must go. <br />There are 23 stories in this collection involving everything from Einstein making a deal with death to allow him to continue working on his theories to girls falling from buildings just for fun to a crew who decides to go on building the Eiffel tower until they have risen so high they can see the Alps. O and one particularly brilliant story about a beloved doctor whose death inspires an investigation that he may not have been who he says he was -- an investigation which grows and reveals that perhaps no one is who they say they are.	2003-11-07
US	45344448	R3QKWSQGS83X16	0142003093	385284314	My Sky Blue Trades: Growing Up Counter in a Contrary Time	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Conformist Memoir	A few themes run through these memoir-essays: rebellion against the father, books as an escape from life. Ok just two themes. The fifties and sixties (Birkerts was born in 1951) are what might be the most documented decades in the history of man. Its very difficult to write a memoir about this time that doesn't sound cliched.<br />Birkerts parents were from Latvia and spoke Latvian in the Michigan family home. Ok thats new. But Sven who insisted on being called Peter was a rebel with a cause as a young man: he wanted to conform and be American.  As he got older he traded in the desire to conform for a desire to be different and so he became a hippie and he did all the things hippies do: drug experiences, sex, travel, Woodstock.  Though well written this kind of book is routine. Birkerts is strongest when he is talking about his grandparents but he is at his weakest when he is talking about  the counterculture and his various girlfriends. Birkerts' first love is not women but books.  When he is discussing a book all the lights come on in his head but when he is talking about a woman the room remains dim.<br /> Memoirs are reckonings and the person the writer is really attempting to reckon with is themselves.  I get the feeling however that Birkerts has not quite gotten there yet. In this self-portrait the artist hides behind a series of 1950's and 1960's cliches; the experiences Birkert's describes just seem too generic.  It is as if his mind is clouded with the popular view of 1950's-60's and he cannot see beyond that to form his own view of the times. Also there just isn't enough of his inner life in this book; no sense of intellectual evolution, no great awakenings to the world except in the most cliched kind of way, and no sense of love for his craft.  In fact he doesn't really talk about his craft much. I was expecting some irony or some literary comment on the sameness of childhood and teen years.  But no irony, no originality,  just a generic MEMOIR.<br />A few observations are precisely worded though the thoughts themselves do not sound particularly authentic.  Birkerts is a careful reader and his essays are often thoroughly researched and he is excellent at giving an overview of an author's career but I don't thnk he has a particularly unique vision of life to offer. To offer something unique he needs to dig deeper into his experience than he chose to do here.r />A few observations are precisely worded though the thoughts themselves do not sound particularly authentic.  Birkerts is a careful reader and his essays are often thoroughly researched and he is excellent at giving an overview of an author's career but I don't thnk he has a particularly unique vision of life to offer. To offer something unique he needs to dig deeper into his experience than he chose to do here.	2003-10-28
US	45344448	RAWL6TR4GV92C	0670031844	55634223	White Mughals: Love and Betrayal in Eighteenth-Century India	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Fascinating and thoroughly researched history	A fascinating look at the turn of the century (18th to 19th) India at a moment when the gentleman scholars or Orientalists were still considered valuable commodities to the East India Company.  Lt. Col. James Achilles Kirkpatrick was the thoroughly Orientalised British \\"Resident \\"--Ambassador-- at Hyderabad from1797-1805.  Kirkpatrick's extensive knowledge of India's languages and customs made him an ideal ambassador but the fact that he married into an important Indian family(the Prime Minister's daughter) aroused suspicion within the British ranks. It was not unusual for British officials to take Indian wives. In fact it was quite common for British officials to have one or more Indian wives or mistresses or even a harem of their own. What was unusual in Kirkpatrick's case was that he married into such an important and powerful family and this placed him in a vulnerable position politically.  In the eyes of his fellow Englishmen Kirkpatrick who often dressed in Indian clothes seemed to have acclimated so well that some wondered just whether his loyalties were with the British or with the Indians who he so obviously admired and imitated.  It was perhaps Kirkpatrick's misfortune to be appointed Resident of Hyderabad at a time when the East India Company under the new leadership of Lord Wellesley was beginning to implement an increasingly lop-sided and self-serving imperialist policy in India.  Initially Kirkpatrick was considered a valuable asset to Wellesley but as rumours of his marriage(and the compromising postion it put him in) spread Wellesley himself began to question whether Kirkpatrick could be relied upon any longer.  Dalrymple uses Kirkpatrick's life to illustrate a fundamental shift in the relationship between Britain and India.  Kirkpatrick represents the last of a breed of men who acclimated themselves to India and in Dalrymples view successfully bridged the gap between east and west. Dalrymple makes use of previously untranslated source material and gives us a rare and detailed glimpse at a moment in history; Kirkpatrick himself, however, remains an ambiguous figure .  We get an especially detailed glimpse of the political intrigue that transpired during a time when the French and the English were competing for dominance in the region.  Dalrymple quotes at length from Kirkpatrick's correpondences and gives a very insightful look into just how the great game was played.  Less detailed and considerably more speculative is the personal side of this story.  Dalrymple provides plenty of detail about Indian life in general but the personalities of Kirkpatrick and his young bride Khair un-Nissa remain sketchy. We feel like we can picture the time and place and we have a keen sense of the poltical goings-on and how they affect each relatonship but the actual love story between these two never emerges from the shadows and remains something of a secret.  Dalrymple tries to use the story to illustrate his own point that cultures can in fact come together though this story could just as well be used to illustrate how they cannot( at least not under these political conditions).  Orientalists like Kirkpatrick were attracted to all things Indian but they were bankrolled by the East India Company. They lived in lavish style in palacial homes with pleasure gardens and hunting grounds as if they were themselves princes of their own private domains. It is easy to romanticize these figures who spoke out against Britains imperialist designs and yet they seem to live in little empires of their own.  Though they did it with great style and with a measure of respect and reverence to their Indian hosts they were in India not by Indian invitation but because of the East India Company and its army which at the time was the world's largest.  The Indian officials had to maintain a relationship with the British officials appointed as \\"Residents\\" and so Kirkpatrick's friendships with the Indians (and perhaps even his marrigage) were  political in nature.  Kirkpatrick may not have been an imperialist but he was a representative of an imperialist nation nonetheless.  Dalrymple's book is thoroughly researched but ultimately he does not consider how the Indians really viewed Kirkpatrick. Plus most of the letters that Dalrymple quotes from are addressed to Kirkpatrick's brother William, but James could not speak his mind to his more conservative brother so we really have no documents that allow us access to Jame Kirkpatrick's  true thoughts.  Despite the amount of research Kirkpatrick remains hidden behind the various guises he had to assume to maintain his postion in the East India Company. Dalrymple attempts to give us an impression of Kirkpatrick by speculating about his private life but he too often resorts to details about Kirkpatrick's various interests in gardening and food and architecture and astronomy. The details are sometimes interesting but give us no clear picture of Kirkpatrick nor his bride and often just read like filler.  Dalrymple is convinced that Kirkpatrick and his young bride were deeply in love and this seems to be the grounds on which he bases his ideas about Kirkpatrick's trans-culturalism and yet other than the sensation the match caused there is very little story there. Khair un-Nissa is little more than a name.  The history is satisfying but as a biography or a love story it is much less so.al in nature.  Kirkpatrick may not have been an imperialist but he was a representative of an imperialist nation nonetheless.  Dalrymple's book is thoroughly researched but ultimately he does not consider how the Indians really viewed Kirkpatrick. Plus most of the letters that Dalrymple quotes from are addressed to Kirkpatrick's brother William, but James could not speak his mind to his more conservative brother so we really have no documents that allow us access to Jame Kirkpatrick's  true thoughts.   Despite the amount of research Kirkpatrick remains hidden behind the various guises he had to assume to maintain his postion in the East India Company. Dalrymple attempts to give us an impression of Kirkpatrick by speculating about his private life but he too often resorts to details about Kirkpatrick's various interests in gardening and food and architecture and astronomy. The details are sometimes interesting but give us no clear picture of Kirkpatrick nor his bride and often just read like filler.  Dalrymple is convinced that Kirkpatrick and his young bride were deeply in love and this seems to be the grounds on which he bases his ideas about Kirkpatrick's trans-culturalism and yet other than the sensation the match caused there is very little story there. Khair un-Nissa is little more than a name.  The history is satisfying but as a biography or a love story it is much less so.	2003-10-26
US	45344448	R1DAR0XD9T56UD	0156996936	238455713	The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis	Books	5	12	12	N	N	In the Labyrinth of Mirrors with the Muses and Fates	If you are a follower of modern European fiction always on the lookout for the next great European writer Saramago is your answer. He writes in a stream-of-consciousness style with long flowing river long sentences which recall James Joyce. Also like Joyce he is interested in giving you life in all its various aspects from high to low, sacred to profane, comic to tragic and this might be the thing which separates him from the pack and makes him not just good but great.  But added to that Joycean interest in variety is a meta-playfulness which recalls Nabokov and Borges.  Like Nabokov he is fond of  pseudonyms and literary in-jokes but he is never haughty like Nabokov can be, in fact his sense of humor is self-mocking and this rarely encountered humility wins you over. Like Borges he enjoys putting his readers in a labyrinthes which present a  challenge to traditional notions of reality. And most of all like his countrymen Eca De Queiros and Fernando Pessoa he believes that History is perhaps the biggest fiction of all and thus his fiction-makers obsession with it.  Saramago you find out very quickly is a wise soul with a magnanimous spirit who has much to share.<br />Ricardo Reis is one of those characters who is not so much the master of his fate but a kind of passive onlooker and he is often looking into a mirror. He roams the labyrinthine streets of Lisbon perhaps uncertain whether he is seeking his fate or avoiding it and there he runs into someone he knows as well as he knows himself ,Pessoa. At the beginning of the book we know Pessoa has died. As the title of the book indicates this is the year Ricardo will meet his death. We know what his fate will be just as we know what Europes fate(and Portugals fate under Salazar) will be and so Saramago's book is a meditation on life just before it ends and history just before it happens.<br />Ricardos moments of poetic inspiration,  and his walks through Lisbon, as well as his talks with Pessoa are merely desultory meanderings which lead nowhere in particular.  The one thing that brings Ricardo into contact with life itself is two women.  He falls in love with a young beauty with a similar paralysis of will but unable to act on this feeling he settles for the chambermaid who ends up pregnant. Even a poet who courts the muses cannot avoid coming into contact with the travails, the fates,  that effect all of us. Portugal too is seen to be merely a bystander unable to do anything but react to or mimic events taking place in the rest of Europe. Just as Ricardos fate is inextricably tied to Pessoas Portugals fate is inextricably entwined with Europes .  The miraculous thing about Saramagos gift is that he manages to be charming and humorous while conveying a deep affection for his ever elusive Pessoa(s) and his Portugal.meanderings which lead nowhere in particular.  The one thing that brings Ricardo into contact with life itself is two women.  He falls in love with a young beauty with a similar paralysis of will but unable to act on this feeling he settles for the chambermaid who ends up pregnant. Even a poet who courts the muses cannot avoid coming into contact with the travails, the fates,  that effect all of us. Portugal too is seen to be merely a bystander unable to do anything but react to or mimic events taking place in the rest of Europe. Just as Ricardos fate is inextricably tied to Pessoas Portugals fate is inextricably entwined with Europes .   The miraculous thing about Saramagos gift is that he manages to be charming and humorous while conveying a deep affection for his ever elusive Pessoa(s) and his Portugal.	2003-09-14
US	45344448	R32946KATVD16T	0879239921	697140955	Tartar Steppe (Verba Mundi)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	19th century adventure/20th century sensibilty	After reading Dino Buzzati's short story collection The Siren I picked up Tartar Steppe(1945) and took it to the beach with me where I read it all the way through in about four hours. Its a captivating novel which takes place almost entirely in a remote hilltop fort which faces a foreboding desert that has never been crossed.  The soldiers stationed at this remote outpost keep watch over the desert in anticipation of  a confrontation with an enemy they have never seen. We learn about the history of the fort as well as those who occupy it when Giovanni Drogo, a young soldier, arrives there to begin what he hopes will be an illustrious career. Upon arriving at the fort Giovanni is immediately struck by the desolate atmosphere of the place and want s to leave but is coerced by the forts adjutant to stay for at least four months. Four months becomes four years and then four years becomes...... Giovanni like many young soldiers wants to advance his career and yet year after year he stays on in the fort and his career goes nowhere. As the years pass and Giovanni remains in the fort somehow unable to find the will to ask for a transfer Buzzati weaves in meditations on the passing of time, the fading of youth and youths dreams, as well mans infinitely renewable capacity for self-deception.  Buzzati might be compared to Kafka for the parable like quality of his writing but Buzzati has his own style and Tartar Steppe is much more reader friendly than either of Kafkas novels. Jean Paul Sartre characterized Kafkas writing as &quot;the impossiblity of transcendence&quot; and that would fit Buzzati's writing as well. There certainly are similarities between the two authors but with Buzzati you feel much closer to real life than you sometimes do in Kafka (whose favorite author was Swift). I would call Tartar Steppe a very effective merging of nineteenth and twentieth-century style and content.  Buzzati seems to me to be examining why  19th century adventure stories of war and travel appeal so much with a 20th century sensibility.  The result is a mesmerizing read, like Giovanni you never stop believing that the enemy is about to show themselves.  This book is often mentioned in the same breath as Julien Gracq's Opposing Shore, a book which I also highly recommend.el appeal so much with a 20th century sensibility.  The result is a mesmerizing read, like Giovanni you never stop believing that the enemy is about to show themselves.  This book is often mentioned in the same breath as Julien Gracq's Opposing Shore, a book which I also highly recommend.	2003-09-12
US	45344448	R1G0F0V3EN1MYC	1864501731	688454065	In Xanadu: A Quest	Books	3	19	21	N	Y	A mad grad school students dash across a continent	Of the three William Dalrymple books I've read this one is the least satisfying. Its a fun read but ultimately not a very substantial one. City of Djinns & Age of Kali are both excellent books on India and highly recommended. In Xanadu is one of those travel books that is dominated by its itinerary. You hear lots of exotic sounding words and place-names but are not left with much more than a glimpse of each place passed through. Each country just feels like a check point as the border crossings are what give the book what drama and humor it has. For example in Iran he is detained by a policeman at a remote checkpoint but when he produces his Cambridge library card the officer exclaims, \\"Oh, Agah, by the great Ali! This is the most famous university in the world.\\"  And then the officer not only lets him go but offers his services as a tour guide.  It is a funny story but as a reader you begin asking yourself what the point of the journey is if all Dalrymple is really concerned with is crossing borders and finding the next mode of transport to get him to the next town. The journey at times feels more like an endurance challenge than anything else.  Dalrymple does quote from a number of great travel writers at timely moments along the way but in doing so he simply makes you wish you were reading their books instead of his. There are a number of books about the Silk Road or Persia in particular(Robert Byron's In Oxonia) that may be worth considering as an alternative to this book. Dalrymples expertise is architecture and he spends time speculating about the medieval churches and crusader fortifications which he encounters. The few architectural passages are interesting and informative but there are only a few of them. Later he will put his architectural expertise to much greater use in Delhi for his book City of Djinns.  There is an admirable amount of information in the book but there are a few moments  when he suggests that he is perhaps the first person since Alexander the Great or Marco Polo to see certain sights at which time you become very aware of the authors age. By the time he arrives at the ruins of Xanadu you feel Dalrymple has conned you into believing he has actually achieved something.  And when he quotes the poem by Coleridge with his girlfriend I was kind of embarrased for the author. After leaving Xanadu and seeing that his journey has come to a close he feels depressed and then quotes Sir Richard Burton who after reaching Mecca wrote about experiencing a depression. But no reader of travel books will mistake Dalrymple for Burton.  After all the Silk Road  is now for the most part a paved highway and the most formidable foe most ravelers are likely to encounter is the drinking water.  Dalrymples later books are much better. He wrote City of Djinns after living in Delhi for five years and the book is a well organized telling of that citys long and diverse history with portraits of its most famous inhabitants. And Age of Kali full of excellent reportage and gives you detailed glimpses of the different regions of India.er the Great or Marco Polo to see certain sights at which time you become very aware of the authors age. By the time he arrives at the ruins of Xanadu you feel Dalrymple has conned you into believing he has actually achieved something.  And when he quotes the poem by Coleridge with his girlfriend I was kind of embarrased for the author. After leaving Xanadu and seeing that his journey has come to a close he feels depressed and then quotes Sir Richard Burton who after reaching Mecca wrote about experiencing a depression. But no reader of travel books will mistake Dalrymple for Burton.  After all the Silk Road  is now for the most part a paved highway and the most formidable foe most ravelers are likely to encounter is the drinking water.  Dalrymples later books are much better. He wrote City of Djinns after living in Delhi for five years and the book is a well organized telling of that citys long and diverse history with portraits of its most famous inhabitants. And Age of Kali full of excellent reportage and gives you detailed glimpses of the different regions of India.	2003-08-29
US	45344448	R3CO6OSZP1JCSY	0810160595	715516079	Solitudes	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Summer book for the solitaty and literary minded	I am reminded of Hemingway when reading Parise. Like Hemingway Parise sums up the essential thing about a person in just a few compact sentences. And like Hemingway's characters Parise's characters are marked for their distinct aloneness.  Hemingway writes as if this aloneness is a result of WW1 and the falling apart of old orders of fraternity. The war created a rift in value systems and thus a rift in the way people relate. Parise writes along similar lines and with similar notions. War albeit WW2 plays a part in many of his stories and has the same kind of effect on his generation that WW1 had on Hemingways. Parise however never really deals directly with causes and effects though. The war simply makes the truth seem clearer but the aloneness is always there and is accepted as the way things are. Hemingway  tries to find ways to bring men and women together but the war is the reason given in both of his best novels as to why the lovers fail.  So in Hemingway there is always the feeling that life should or could be different. In Parise war is just one backdrop for aloneness to become apparent and felt. But unlike Hemingway Parise does not seem to believe things could be any different. Not that his characters do not try to connect but they try with no real conviction in the success of it. Parise' stories are very short and this sometimes leaves you feeling not enough was said or done with each character and this is perhaps a shortcoming of his work nonetheless he presents an astonishing array of psychologies in his many vignettes and though everyone may be alone, everyone is alone in their own way and each perceives that aloneness differently. I read the book on the beach. I would call this summer reading for literary people. Content wise its not light but the brevity of the stories makes it an easy book to lazily drift in and out of .  Parise seems to do the same thing in every story and yet  it never feels like he is doing the same thing over and over again. Aloneness can be experienced in any number of ways.eness can be experienced in any number of ways.	2003-06-23
US	45344448	R1ZPCPPPYSIX41	0819552593	534481752	A Foreigner Carrying in the Crook of His Arm a Tiny Book	Books	4	5	5	N	N	subversive and suspicious	This is not a narrative but a series of aphorisms which occasionally grow into more precise prose meditations. Aphorisms however sometimes sound like clever twists of logic which prove nothing but verbal dexterity though and that is one problem with Jabes work. But that weakness is also sometimes a strength as Jabes makes use of the malleability inherent in language to stress the malleability in individual identity which is his main theme in this, his last, book. The book is a meditation on what it means to be a foreigner. For Jabes who was forced out of his homeland Egypt in 1956 because he was a Jew and who lived in exile until his death in 1991 being a foreigner was something with which he was well acquainted. Through all of his aphorisms and twists of logic Jabes seeks a higher truth whereby contact with the foreigner or \\"other\\" leads to greater self-knowledge which in turn leads to the knowledge that we are all one and the same separated only by the biases of the age in which we live. The language is distinctly existential but the content is humanist.	2003-04-20
US	45344448	ROETIQLBP17QQ	0876855451	681889975	The Spider's House	Books	4	19	19	N	N	In the Spiders Eye	Whats fascinating about Paul Bowles is that he uprooted himself from his own culture and immersed himself completely in a culture as different from his own as he could find. And the reason for this is clear in all of his fiction and travel books-- he enjoys feeling like a stranger. For Bowles this immersion into another culture was a great success. However whatever it was that Bowles himself found in Arab culture seems to elude the characters in his fictions who seem to be seeking a similar kind of immersion but somehow never get it right. In fact more often than not Bowles characters usually find out the hardest way possible that they simply are unsuited to the life they are attempting to lead.<br /> In Spiders House there are two lead characters Aman , a young Arab, and Stenham, an American writer. The first 150 pages of the book are devoted to Aman who is coming of age and awareness of the world around him just as that world is about to change as this is 1954 and French rule in Morocco is about to be challenged by a fierce Nationalist uprising. Aman's family is deeply rooted in their cultures traditions but Aman is not. Aman is responsive to the changing world around him and his own philosophy is provisional and unbound by adherence to any faith. We witness the stirrings of political revolt through his eyes and he is fascinated with all he sees but he does not interpret events nor involve himself in them for he is a kind of stranger within his own culture who believes himself to have the ability to read what is in other mens hearts. Aman remains on the fringes of his own culture, almost an outsider looking in. His perspective is fascinating and gives us a unique look at Arab life from an insider/outsider perspective. Then Bowles leaves Amans narrative and for the next 150 pages tells Stenhams story. In the last 100 pages of this 400 page book the two will meet up. Stenham is also an insider/outsider within his circle of friends. Being a writer Stenham has an excuse to isolate himself from the other expatriots living in Fez. In his isolation Stenham has devised and cultivated his own very personal relationship with the city. For Stenham the appeal of Fez is its  medieval atmosphere and he despises the encroachments of modernity whether they be French or Nationalist. Stenham more than any other character in the book lives in a world of his own devising and he himself knows his world cannot last. But there are many \\"Spiders Houses\\" in the book--each characters reality is a Spiders House-- and in the last 100 pages they all come crashing down.<br />This is a much more analytical book than Sheltering Sky. Sheltering Sky succeeded brilliantly because in it Bowles presented a vison which he then pursued to its ultimate lurid end. There is really nothing particularly lurid in Spiders House, no sex, and no drugs. There is violence but it is political violence, not the usual kind associated with Bowles. Though a book which has a political uprising in it this is not a political thriller. In fact the politics are never more than perpipheral to Bowles main interest which is in his main two characters' psychologies. How you feel about Stenham will largely determine how you feel about the book.  Stenham is self-involved and it makes sense that he only registers things in so far as they affect him. Much of the book is Stenham ruminating about Stenham.  Furthermore Stenhams views of the Arab people are often less than flattering--ie he describes them as \\"unevolved\\" at one point. Bowles realizes he has a less than sympathetic lead character with a narrow vision so he counterbalances that character with young Aman who is still young and receptive to multiple realities. Amans presence challenges Stenhams conception of the Arab people. Bowles does not necessarily suggest there will ever be understanding between the east and west but he does find value at least in dispelling some of the myths that each culture has about the other. A facinating read by one of the few authors who can look at the east through western eyes and (at least attempt)to see the west through eastern ones.read by one of the few authors who can look at the east through western eyes and (at least attempt)to see the west through eastern ones.	2003-03-19
US	45344448	R36XV9NMEJR9F	0306806339	777979444	The Difficulty Of Being	Books	4	24	33	N	Y	Enfant Essays	Cocteau will not appeal to thinkers who admire clarity and concise thinking. He is not a professional thinker one might say. he prides himself on his amateur standing and will appeal to others who find the word amateur appealing. He is a dilettante, granted he is the grandest of the dilettantes but a dilettante nonetheless. His rather slender examinations of different topics makes one realize he is driven exclusively by his own ego whose highest value is sensibility, namely his own, so the essays strike one as self celebrations more than serious investigations. This will interest those who love Cocteaus every word and gesture but there is not really that much in his writing to recommend him to a wide readership. he can be very amusing and occasionally you will find an insight that is striking and completely original but not that often. Mostly this is someone who writes in a comfy chair and concocts little sketches which remain rather sketchy albeit charming much of the time. In his time there was something rebellious about being defiantly amateur but there are limits to what one can accomplish when ones wayward instincts remain ones only driving force.  That and the continual refining of sensibility. He remains a kind of enfant terrible and when he got older he was a much mellowed enfant terrible. He is an important figure that everyone interested in any or all the art forms must respect because he certainly made a contribution to nearly every form there is but these essays are not for rigorous thinkers. There is a vagueness in everything Cocteau did that makes it seem that maybe this was the key to his sensibility. I would recommend the book Les Enfant Terribles over this, there is literary power in that. These essays just leave you feeling hungry they are so slight.	2002-09-12
US	45344448	R2SDVLEM12MV6	0811207765	201937946	How German Is It	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Very German Indeed	Walter Abish has a reputation for writing experimental fiction and much of his work is not all that accessible but this novel will appeal to readers of both experimental fiction and readers who like a solid plot and believable characters as the book treads ground familiar enough to appeal to  the reader with a taste for tradtional novels and yet the psychologies studied are quite modern and so the reader of experimental fiction will find much to admire as well. Abish is an American and this book won the most prestigious American book award(PEN/Faulkner) in the year of its release 1981 but the authors that come to mind when reading HOW GERMAN IS IT are German or Austrian. The lead character is named Ulrich and any lover of German language literature will immediately think Robert Musil when hearing that name. In a way the book is reminiscent of Musil's Man Without Qualities in that its lead character is a kind of cipher without any real identity of his own, at least not one that is readily apparent. Abish's Ulrich is an author and throughout the book Abish has different characters in his book comment on how unreliable authors are. This is kind of a modernist joke but one that gains in resonance as the book progresses.  Abish writes in a way that may remind some of Kundera but without the humor, and without the hip 60's sensibility. Like Kundera however he places his characters in very specific historic contexts. For Abish however there is a kind of delayed reaction as the present of the novel is the late seventies but the historic context still defining each character relates back to the 1939-45 period. The truths and obsessions that define the German character that was so very evident in those years have never really vanished is Abish's conceit. And each character must deal with those truths in his own way and define him/herself against them. In addition there is the irony/ambiguity in the title that suggests or asks if these are just German obsessions or are these obsessions shared by all modern capitalist societies. But all is done below the surface as Abish reveals all very subtly through his characters which he flushes out only very slowly and this slow and gradual flushing out of each character is where the real appeal of the novel is. Who is really standing for what. It is not so easy to see or say who is on what side and who stands for what in the modern version of Germany. Not til the last page do you know the defining truth of the lead character. And it is a surprise which I did at no time see coming. A great psychological study of half a dozen characters told in a meticulous and deliberately paced prose which reveals this while concealing that. Virtually perfect in every way which makes this novels answer to its own question HOW GERMAN IS IT :very German indeed.bsessions shared by all modern capitalist societies. But all is done below the surface as Abish reveals all very subtly through his characters which he flushes out only very slowly and this slow and gradual flushing out of each character is where the real appeal of the novel is. Who is really standing for what. It is not so easy to see or say who is on what side and who stands for what in the modern version of Germany. Not til the last page do you know the defining truth of the lead character. And it is a surprise which I did at no time see coming. A great psychological study of half a dozen characters told in a meticulous and deliberately paced prose which reveals this while concealing that. Virtually perfect in every way which makes this novels answer to its own question HOW GERMAN IS IT :very German indeed.	2002-09-12
US	45344448	R1Y23L5Z0KKKT0	0880015004	11007256	Up Above The World	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Darkness in a sunny locale	The first 100 pages of Up Above The World follows the travelings of Taylor and Day two Americans very reminiscent of Port and Kit of Sheltering Sky. In the last 150 pages after meeting a strange couple Taylor and Day are no longer in control of their lives but prisoners of the strange couple. Exactly how this imprisoning takes place and for what reasons only become clear in the very last pages. Only a minimal plot description can be given as the pleasure is in finding things out in the order they are meant to be found out. Having been a longtime fan of Sheltering Sky and all of his stories I hesitated reading any of his other novels as I heard they were not as good as his first. But reading this I find I am reminded not so much of the eerie and desolate majesty of Sheltering Sky which is a far better novel but of Bowles short stories, especially the ones which take place in South America as this novel does.  This is not Sheltering Sky caliber fiction but it is a very competent novel and will appeal to those who admire Bowles very modern and often horrific short stories full of deviant psychologies and drugs and all sorts of sordid and often primitive \\"truths\\" about human nature. The novel reads like an extended short story really. Occasional details peculiar for being so precise stand out as always in Bowles writing. He describes the sound a cricket makes as coming from the back of its black throat. The Bowles vision is as bleak a vision as exists in serious modern fiction but it is immensely appealing as gothic things often are. I doubt many people really feel the world is as Bowles describes it. He grasps at only one side of human nature, the side the sun never reaches. Not a place you want to live but an intriguing place to travel through.	2002-08-24
US	45344448	R24F9EE7O8LCGR	000215725X	686635283	City of Djinns: A Year in Delhi	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	twilight in Delhi	William Dalrymple is a historian and brings considerable authority to the field of architecture as well and architecture in Delhi is the chronicle in stone from which the cities long and turbulent history can be read.<br />Djinns are ghosts and there are those that believe there are many in Delhi, Dalrymple gets the ghosts of the city to speak of the past by going through endless archives. One of the richest archives it turns out was nearer to him than he thought. His wife Olivia Fraser is a descendant of William Fraser who was a legendary figure in early nineteenth century Delhi at a time when Delhi was a place of perpetual conflict at the outermost edges of the empire. Fraser raised his own army made up of the strongest warriors from each successive tribe that he conquered and he ruled Delhi in a way not incomparible to Conrad's Kurtz(Dalrymple makes the comparison). William and Olivia stayed in the Fraser residence in Inverness, Scotland before leaving for Delhi only to find that one room away from where they were sleeping were stacks and stacks of William Fraser's old letters.<br />Dalrymple discusses at length the many great figures of Delhis past including James Forbes, Fraser, Sir David Ochterlony and James Skinner and after investigating them in books he then ventures out to find what remains of the forts and palaces they resided in.<br />Also there is much from Delhis more recent past. Dalrymple interviews many still living Djinns who remember the great atrocities that followed the 1947 partition of India and Pakistan where vast numbers of people migrating in opposite directions(Hindus into India, Muslims to Pakistan)began killing each other. Virtually all of old Delhi, once famous for its high degree of Urdu culture was displaced by a largely peasant population of Punjabi immigrants which completely changed every aspect of the city, including the language. A fascinating colony of the old Delhi-wallahs lives on in exile in Karachi and Dalrymple heads there to hear stories from the exiled Djinns, the last remaining voices of a once great city.<br />  Making his way further into the past through the travel narratives of the Italian Niccolao Manucci, the Frenchmen Francois Bernier and the Moroccan Ibn Battuta, Dalrymple brings to life the 17th century Delhi of Shah Jehan and the 14th century Delhi of Tughluk then explores what remains of the great cities that Delhi was(Delhi was rebuilt time and again, at least eight different cities one on top of the other)and finds sometimes tucked away beneath or within one of the modern structures of this much more utilitarian and mundane age, evidence of a once magnificent Mogul palace or courtyard or zenana.ear stories from the exiled Djinns, the last remaining voices of a once great city. <BR>  Making his way further into the past through the travel narratives of the Italian Niccolao Manucci, the Frenchmen Francois Bernier and the Moroccan Ibn Battuta, Dalrymple brings to life the 17th century Delhi of Shah Jehan and the 14th century Delhi of Tughluk then explores what remains of the great cities that Delhi was(Delhi was rebuilt time and again, at least eight different cities one on top of the other)and finds sometimes tucked away beneath or within one of the modern structures of this much more utilitarian and mundane age, evidence of a once magnificent Mogul palace or courtyard or zenana.	2002-03-12
US	45344448	R2OGI3PG8H8808	1886913013	571449514	Days and Nights in Calcutta (A Ruminator Find)	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Home and the World	This is one of the most unique travel books I've ever read. The first 165 pages are written by Canadian novelist & short story writer Clark Blaise and are followed by a 115 page section by his wife, Bharati Mukherjee, also a novelist & short story writer & Berkeley professor. The book originally appeared in 1975 and documents in two distinct voices a year spent in the company of Mukherjee's family in India, first in Bombay then in Calcutta.<br />Blaise and Mukherjee met at a writers workshop in Iowa, married, and lived in Canada with their two children until their house burned down which left them homeless and prompted their journey east. Mukherjee spent her formative years in Calcutta and is returning to a largely familiar world but to Blaise everything is new. The first sixty pages of his narrative take place in Bombay and Blaise is never altogether at home there as they are staying with Mukherjees parents and her father is the uncontested head of the household. Blaise's trips into the city are flights from the congestion of stifling family life, his insights into the nature of Indian family life are in equal parts humorous and informative(the family does not even know the first name of a servant who has lived with them for years, nor do they show any interest in knowing). This view of India from an outsider given an insiders access is just one of many aspects of this book that distinguishes it from mere travel narrative. His initiation into the rituals and customs and (to him)peculiarites of Indian family life make for great reading. But the best section is the sustained amazement and energy of the 10-15 page description of Calcutta(where they have chosen to spend the better part of the year in a mission which caters to scholars) as he rides a rickshaw through its cluttered streets. Over the course of the year Blaise will meet many of Calcutta's elite including its most famous(to the west anyway)citizen, the film maker Satyajit Ray. Calcutta is the major city of Bengal, the eastern most province of India, filled with a proud and cultured people, and Blaise spends many fascinating pages analyzing both its culture and polotics:<br />The Bengali has lived with the English longer than any Indian, and he has absorbed him,while keeping his own soul, with astounding ease. -p.122<br /> Blaise begins with illusions about India but over the course of his year in Calcutta he learns about its culture and people and the contact with this world different in every imaginable way from his own has a profound impact on him, the way he views the west, and the way he views his marriage.<br />In counterpoint to Blaise's description of the year is Mukherjee's. She is a westernised Indian who has married outside,and according to her father beneath,her caste and in caste conscious India that is often an unforgivable offense. The Mukherjee girls(Bharati and her sisters)are brilliant and Bharati is beautiful and her novel, The Tigers Daughter, just published to rave reviews, has made her famous in her home country. Her year is marked by equally profound realizations which include increased self awareness of her own very personal way of blending if not bridging the two very distinct cultures of which she is a part:<br />My aesthetic, then, must accomadate a decidedly Hindu imagination with an Americanized sense of the craft of fiction. To admit to possessing a Hindu imagination is to admit that my concepts of what constitutes a \\"story\\" and of narrative structure are noncausal, non-Western.-p.298<br />But perhaps the most fascinating part of her section is her portrait of her former classmates who have stayed in India and married and now make up the elite. These highly educated women are nonetheless stranded in their homes and live cloistered social lives atop an India which has grown restless and intolerant of the wide divisions that separate the rich from the poor. Riots and robbery are always imminent realities. The women Mukherjee observes clothedin silk saris and gold bracelets and diamond earings in their gated community of mansions in the worlds poorest city seem trapped in a world that they know cannot last. They go on as if immune(or wishing to be) from all the realites around them, a social elite with money to burn but drained of contact and significance to the greater India outside their own very high walls.<br /><br />Rare book by two excellent writers & one that has not gone through too many reprintings so get a copy while you can. I especially like the sturdy(always good for a travel book) '95 Hungry Mind paperback edition with excellent cover art as well as updated prologues and epilogues by the authors.aris and gold bracelets and diamond earings in their gated community of mansions in the worlds poorest city seem trapped in a world that they know cannot last. They go on as if immune(or wishing to be) from all the realites around them, a social elite with money to burn but drained of contact and significance to the greater India outside their own very high walls.<BR><BR>Rare book by two excellent writers & one that has not gone through too many reprintings so get a copy while you can. I especially like the sturdy(always good for a travel book) '95 Hungry Mind paperback edition with excellent cover art as well as updated prologues and epilogues by the authors.	2002-03-10
US	45344448	R3C5F1K0XH1TAN	0486212173	598261391	001: Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah (Volume 1)	Books	5	53	61	N	N	bibliography & note	India:<br />Goa, and the Blue Mountains, 1851<br />Scinde,or, The Unhappy Valley, 1851<br />Sindh, and the Races that inhabit the Valley of the Indus, 1852<br />Falconry in the Valley of the Indus, 1852<br />A Complete System of bayonet Exercise, 1853<br />Africa:<br />Personal Narrative of a Pilgrimage to El-Medinah and Mecca, 1855<br />First Footsteps in Africa: or an exploration of Harar, 1856<br />The Lake Regions of Central Africa: A Picture of Exploration, 1860<br />The Lake Regions of Central Equatorial Africa with Notices of the Lunar Mountains and the sources of the White Nile...1860<br />America:<br />The City of the Saints and across the Rocky Mountains, 1861<br />The Prairie traveler, 1863<br />Misc.:<br />Abeokuta and the Cameroon mountians, 1863<br />Wanderings in West Africa, 1863<br />A Mission to Gelele, King of the Dahomes,... , 1864<br />The Nile Basin, 1864<br />Wit and Wisdom from West Africa, 1865<br />The Guide Book: A Pictorial Pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina, 1865<br />The Highlands of Brazil, 1869<br />Vikram and the Vampires, or Tales of Hindu Devilry, 1870<br />Letters from the Battlefields of Paraguay, 1870<br />Unexplored Syria, 1872<br />Zanzibar, 1872<br />The Lands of Canzembe, Lacerds's Journey to Cazembe in 1798, 1873<br />The Captivity of Hans Stade of Hesse, 1874<br />Ultima Thule; or, A Summer in Iceland, 1875<br />Etruscan Bologna, 1876<br />A New System of Sword Exercise for Infantry, 1876<br />Two Trips to Gorilla Land, Congo, 1876<br />Scind Revisited: With Notices of the Anglo-Indian Army; Railroads; Past, Present, and Future, 1877<br />The Gold Mines of Midian, 1878<br />The Land of Midian, 1879<br />The Kasidah, 1880<br />Os, Lusiads, 1880<br />Camoens:His Life and His Lusiads, 1881<br />A Glance at the \\"Passion Play\\", 1881<br />To the Gold Coast for Gold, 1883<br />Kama Sutra, 1883<br />The Book of the Sword, 1884<br />Perfumed Garden, 1886<br />1001 Nights, 1886-1888<br />Iracema, 1886<br />Priapea, 1890<br />Marocco and the Moors, 1891<br />Il Pentamerone, 1893<br />The Carmina of Caius Valerius Catallus, 1894<br />The Jew and the Gypsy, 1898<br />Wanderings in Three Continents, 1901<br />Its my opinion that though he wrote an amazing number of books none of them are really 5 star classics though there are some flawed masterpieces in there. He just wrote too fast to care about polishing his works.<br />As for racism, a charge that could be brought up against all Imperial Englishman, he is no doubt as guilty as his fellows. Not to excuse him for it but though writing within an anglo tradition and to a strictly anglo public he perhaps overstates his own anglo bias just to assure his readers he has not gone native, a charge which would be ruinous to any career, military or literary. I won't try to convince you one way or the other but any man who learns another mans language and his religion and his literature and pays so much mind to him that he can even drink a glass of water using his exact manner is paying that man and his culture some kind of compliment. I won't pretend to understand what exactly Burtons motives were from one moment to the next and one adventure to the next but his relation to all these cultures certainly cannot be reduced to a one word description. Burton is a man of immense learning , his enthusiasms are infectious and his appetites as well as his humor are outrageous. With Burton you always get more than you bargained for, you get the country he is in and all manner of localised detail but also you get Burton, his way of writing, his manners, and his customs.>The Jew and the Gypsy, 1898<BR>Wanderings in Three Continents, 1901<br />Its my opinion that though he wrote an amazing number of books none of them are really 5 star classics though there are some flawed masterpieces in there. He just wrote too fast to care about polishing his works. <BR>As for racism, a charge that could be brought up against all Imperial Englishman, he is no doubt as guilty as his fellows. Not to excuse him for it but though writing within an anglo tradition and to a strictly anglo public he perhaps overstates his own anglo bias just to assure his readers he has not gone native, a charge which would be ruinous to any career, military or literary. I won't try to convince you one way or the other but any man who learns another mans language and his religion and his literature and pays so much mind to him that he can even drink a glass of water using his exact manner is paying that man and his culture some kind of compliment. I won't pretend to understand what exactly Burtons motives were from one moment to the next and one adventure to the next but his relation to all these cultures certainly cannot be reduced to a one word description. Burton is a man of immense learning , his enthusiasms are infectious and his appetites as well as his humor are outrageous. With Burton you always get more than you bargained for, you get the country he is in and all manner of localised detail but also you get Burton, his way of writing, his manners, and his customs.	2002-03-08
US	45344448	RAXL8YJJEXBSN	0140255087	810313221	The Snow Leopard (Penguin Nature Classics)	Books	5	59	67	N	N	...in the footprints of the Himalayan leopard	A naturalist & Buddhist and adventurer extraordinaire Matthiessen met his traveling companion in 1969 on the Serengeti plain in East Africa. This newfound friend, George Schaller, later asks him if he wants to join him on his next trip to Nepal to study the bharal or Himalayan blue sheep. So late in 1973 the two set out on a journey to the Crystal Mountain that takes them west under Annapurna and north around the Dhaulagiri peaks and across the Kanjiroba to the land of Dolpo, on the Tibetan Plateau.<br />This is a very literate and philosophic quest ripe with quotes from Lamas and Rilke and Ovid:<br />Just as a white summer cloud, in harmony with heaven and earth freely floats in the blue sky from horizon to horizon following the breath of the atmosphere-in the same way the pilgrim abandons himself to the breath of the greater life that...leads him beyond the farthest horizons to an aim which is already present within him, though yet hidden from his sight.-Lama Govinda<br />Spiritual but in an earthy way, an approprate response to Nepal. The Tibetan culture is fascinating to seeker and secular journeyman alike. The country itself comes to life in this book and that is to be expected from Matthiessen who is a world renowned naturalist. What makes the book stand apart form all others like it is Matthiessen who is a much more nuanced character than your average adventurer and the resulting narrative is a many layered and often exalted one. I suppose as a writer he reminds me of that other great American naturalist Henry David Thoreau whose work also operates on many planes at once not the least of which is the earthen one. Matthiessen comes alive once he is beyond the reach of his own temporal civilization and among the timeless elements of the earth under skies where no planes ever appear and no rescue is forthcoming should anything go wrong. A book that continues to enthrall with its stunning imagery and insight and it shines even more on repeat readings, a shrine to the mountainous east.ountainous east.	2002-03-07
US	45344448	R2U661NIILQ97D	1855384973	754967273	Travels Through Sacred India	Books	5	15	15	N	N	the popular, the classical, the inner & the other traditions	This introduction to the sacred practices of India is especially enjoyable because it is all contained in a travel narrative so instead of lots of abstract thoughts you get the basic premises plus one or more of Housden's real life encounters with a  practicing guru or sadhu. The anecdotes keep things at an earthly level and Housden knows just how much information is the right amount. I've always had an interest in Indian ways of thinking but never found the right kind of introduction to suit my level of interest until reading this book which was perfect for my mind which just wanted an introduction that could also serve as a reference book when needed. Very satisfying to have read this and its proven very useful to have around especially when reading a travel book or piece of fiction that assumes you know who all the Gods and Goddesses are and all their various incarnations( the Gods/Goddesses all go by many names) or what a Sikh or a Jain or a Sufi is. Housden is reverential in attitude toward Indias many sacred traditions but always plainspoken. I found much here that greatly appealed to my thinking which is philosophic and earthy and unconventional so the popular and older and earthier traditions appealed to my naturally earthy leanings and some of the later reformation movements(non-sectarian, non-caste, equal rights to women)  appealed for their practical applications. India makes a lot more sense after reading this book. A good place to begin any Indian journey, sacred or secular.<br />Plus for those planning a visit to India there is an extensive \\"Gazetteer\\" in the back with lists of sacred places, routes, festivals, ashrams.	2002-03-07
US	45344448	R3VE8PGJ8Z7L56	0520022157	166334746	Delusions and Discoveries: Studies on India in the British Imagination 1880-1930	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Cornerstone of Postcolonial Studies	This book, originally published in 1972, is a real pleasure. Its focus is on English fictions created about India during the Raj but it predates todays postcolonial theory and is therefore free of the latters penchant for rarefied jargon. Parry in her introduction to the new edition examines current trends in postcolonial theory and she finds them to have strayed away from the plain facts of history and become lost in a hybrid analysis of texts which places too much emphasis on discursive ambiguity and not enough on the plain fact of the economic exploitation which informs all colonizer/colonized encounters. You will only get this new essay if you get the new revised Verso edition(published 1997)which also includes an introductory essay by the always on the mark Michael Sprinker so beware the old editions on sale.<br />The lengthy first chapter offers a detailed account of the evolving nature of the colonizer/colonized relationship from initial conquest to independence struggle with many excellently chosen quotes from numerous diaries/travel logs/ memoirs/literary sources etc...Unlike Saids Orientalism which came later and owes a great debt to this book as do all of the postcolonial practitioners, Parry spends considerable time supporting her carefully stated views. She was writing at a time when the Raj revival was just about to reach its zenith and so this book was one assumes written at least in part as a counter to all the sentimental and fond accounts of the English for their empire. Parry gives the best account I have yet read of what the actual Anglo-Indian rulers were like in India though there are other valuable accounts including Indian accounts which I would also highly recommend(Indian Tales of the Raj). Parry deals with familiar names like Kipling and Forster but also with some unfamiliar names including female novelists and travel writers. Her views on Kipling broke new ground and have yet to be bettered though many have tried(Moore-Gilbert, Suleri).<br />I've read many related books including Suleri's Rhetoric of English India, &amp; Moore-Gilberts Writing India &amp; can easily say this is the best book of its kind. Amazingly insightful for 1972 or for 2002 and a real breath of common sense fresh air to the school of thinkers that came along in the 1987-1997 era and were so dominated by the influence of Derrida and Foucault and offered an ever diminishing amount of insight and an ever increasing amount of arcane verbiage. The re-publication of this frimly grounded work will perhaps assist in re-focusing postcolonial studies, one can only hope.<br />It is very interesting that in her introduction Parry mentions Said several times but quotes only from Culture and Imperialism, a book with a much firmer and more plainly spoken grasp of the relationship between empire and literature than its predecessor, the infinitely more famous Orientalism. Said in turn pays homage to Parry on the back cover acknowledging her influence and rightly so.  Delusions and Discoveries really deserves to be the book given the credit for initiating the modern phase of postcolonial studies.>I've read many related books including Suleri's Rhetoric of English India, &amp; Moore-Gilberts Writing India &amp; can easily say this is the best book of its kind. Amazingly insightful for 1972 or for 2002 and a real breath of common sense fresh air to the school of thinkers that came along in the 1987-1997 era and were so dominated by the influence of Derrida and Foucault and offered an ever diminishing amount of insight and an ever increasing amount of arcane verbiage. The re-publication of this frimly grounded work will perhaps assist in re-focusing postcolonial studies, one can only hope.<BR>It is very interesting that in her introduction Parry mentions Said several times but quotes only from Culture and Imperialism, a book with a much firmer and more plainly spoken grasp of the relationship between empire and literature than its predecessor, the infinitely more famous Orientalism. Said in turn pays homage to Parry on the back cover acknowledging her influence and rightly so.  Delusions and Discoveries really deserves to be the book given the credit for initiating the modern phase of postcolonial studies.	2002-03-01
US	45344448	R150NP1YZQIMKG	1864501723	955728078	The Age of Kali: Indian Travels and Encounters	Books	5	13	14	N	N	the Age of Everything	Dalrymple covers a lot ground including Bahir, Rajasthan, Bombay, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Goa, Sri Lanka, Reunion Island, & even Pakistan: Islamabad, Peshawar. Everywhere he goes Dalrymple(with the assistance of expertly chosen guides) gives you a sense of the historical scope of each city or region from its moment of grandeur to its moment of decline, with an equal amount of scrutiny being given to recent happenings and current political trends. In India facts must be dug for amid the many fictions in circulation and Dalrymple never one to take anyones word for anything does some admirable journalistic investigation of a murder at an elite boarding school, gathers together all the conflicting eyewitness accounts a modern day sati, and he even spends some time getting cozy with the notorious Tamil Tigers whom he finds to be amazingly young(their female contingent or 'Freedom Birds' remind him of Bond girls). And he interviews a lot of memorable figures including the militant Hindu revivalist Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia and Pakistan's Benazir Bhutto(both scathing portraits) as well as many who recollect and recreate for him in conversations and tours of dusty palaces tales of unimaginable opulence and decadence of India's not too distant past. The old cities are vanishing or have vanished, existing as  heaps of stone tucked between modern office buildings. The cities are modernised, there is even an Indian equivalent to silicon valley but the rural areas remain in what seems another century.<br />Much of India is being turned upside down as the lower castes have tired of the ill treatment afforded them by the upper castes. The wealthy upper castes are not quick to let go of their privileges though and much of the countryside in areas like Bihar has become a battle zone for caste wars.  It is when Dalrymple passes through this dangerous countryside which is ruled by police on the payroll of politicians with long criminal records that he thinks of the violent and dark age of Kali.  In different ways the different parts of India are in the throes of monumental changes, this change often manifests itself in mysterious ways. The old ways are very much alive next to, within, and around the new ways. India has absorbed many invaders and within her borders contains many different religions, languages, races and for long periods of time there is peace and balance but in such a strictly regimented society where everyone has their allotted place and duty every change and shift makes everyone uneasy.  The Moghuls for the most part peacably ruled both Muslim and Hindu, then the English ruled in their way taking over and consolodating an already existing imperial network and though the English left in 1947 their system in many ways remained in place and the full impact of their departure is perhaps just now being felt.  India has restlessly begun to search for a new shape. Unfortunately an era of violence (to Dalrymple comparison with the Balkans is not an unfounded one) seems imminent.<br />In contrast to these dire realities and contingencies Dalrymple explores some fascinating hybrid civilizations that existed on the borderlands between peacefully comingling cultures. One on Reunion island and another in the north of Pakistan where a garrison of Alexanders troops mixed with Indians, Persians, Chinese, and Central Asians to create what became known as Gandharan civilization. Dalrymple explores their ruins at Peshawar.of Kali.  In different ways the different parts of India are in the throes of monumental changes, this change often manifests itself in mysterious ways. The old ways are very much alive next to, within, and around the new ways. India has absorbed many invaders and within her borders contains many different religions, languages, races and for long periods of time there is peace and balance but in such a strictly regimented society where everyone has their allotted place and duty every change and shift makes everyone uneasy.  The Moghuls for the most part peacably ruled both Muslim and Hindu, then the English ruled in their way taking over and consolodating an already existing imperial network and though the English left in 1947 their system in many ways remained in place and the full impact of their departure is perhaps just now being felt.  India has restlessly begun to search for a new shape. Unfortunately an era of violence (to Dalrymple comparison with the Balkans is not an unfounded one) seems imminent. <BR>In contrast to these dire realities and contingencies Dalrymple explores some fascinating hybrid civilizations that existed on the borderlands between peacefully comingling cultures. One on Reunion island and another in the north of Pakistan where a garrison of Alexanders troops mixed with Indians, Persians, Chinese, and Central Asians to create what became known as Gandharan civilization. Dalrymple explores their ruins at Peshawar.	2002-02-28
US	45344448	RS0U2MOAGA4JQ	0805026665	83373709	A Goddess in the Stones: Travels in India	Books	4	7	7	N	N	city and the mountain	The population of India is approaching 1 billion. Of that enormous number over 50 million are tribal people.<br />In the big cities modernity has made a considerable impact, the further you get away from the city though the less modern the world seems, and in the mountain regions the tribes live much the same way they have for thousands of years.<br />Norman Lewis begins his journey in the city of Patna, which is in the Bihar region of central India. From there he begins to travel further and further away from the densely populated centers. In the rural lands of Bihar the age old caste system which keeps every person in their place selfishly allocating privilege and profit only to the upper castes has begun to meet with a significant challenge from the lower castes who have recently begun to violently assert themselves. Traditional government as well as the police force in this region and in many others is corrupt and people have taken the law into their own hands. Women , especially lower caste women, are especially vulnerable in these conditions and are treated like property or in some cases worse. In India a female child is less valued than a male child because female children must be married off in expensive wedding ceremonies and provided with dowries. Arranged marriage is still the rule in many places and atrocities committed against women, including infanticide, enslavement, and murder, are so often in the newspapers that they are treated like commonplace occurrences, the police rarely interefere or are simply bought off by the highest bidder. It is not surprising that given these dire realities Lewis heads for the hills and mountain regions of Orissa to search for the unspoilt tribes. Lewis takes Ranjan as a guide. Ranjan, a Brahmin, shares Lewis' interest in primitive peoples. Once in the mountains the modern world is only a bad memory, for there in the unspoilt forests are tribes living in harmony with nature and each other. Each tribe has distinct characteristics which enthuse both Lewis and Ranjan. One tribe permits promiscuity among teenagers who live together in dormitories, another forbids the wearing of clothes, but in virtually all of the tribes women are seen to be equals to the men. In fact in one tribe which traditionally marries off young men to older women it is the women who are in charge. Ranjan as Lewis has suspected all along is in love with a Sarjput girl that he met on a previous trip to the region. Their romance unfolds amid rituals and dances and celebrations. The joy and freedom of these tribal peoples is a sobering and sharp and welcome contrast to the violent strife ridden world left behind.<br />Lewis (and Ranjan) are excellent guides and the friendship of these two like minded individuals gives the book its personal charm.istics which enthuse both Lewis and Ranjan. One tribe permits promiscuity among teenagers who live together in dormitories, another forbids the wearing of clothes, but in virtually all of the tribes women are seen to be equals to the men. In fact in one tribe which traditionally marries off young men to older women it is the women who are in charge. Ranjan as Lewis has suspected all along is in love with a Sarjput girl that he met on a previous trip to the region. Their romance unfolds amid rituals and dances and celebrations. The joy and freedom of these tribal peoples is a sobering and sharp and welcome contrast to the violent strife ridden world left behind. <BR>Lewis (and Ranjan) are excellent guides and the friendship of these two like minded individuals gives the book its personal charm.	2002-02-26
US	45344448	R1XEEJZCWZVKTV	0864424574	960282133	In Rajasthan (Lonely Planet Journeys)	Books	3	14	15	N	N	Heat and Dust and Palacial Hotels	Royina Grewal and her husband Ajit chose to leave Bombay and exchange their metropolitan existence for a rural one in the village of Patan in the Alwar district of north eastern Rajasthan. Royina, who also authored Sacred Virgin about a trip on the Narmada river, and her husband have decided to rebuild a run down farm and using experimental agricultural techniques they are attempting to grow crops on arid land. While her husband tends to the farm and the reconstruction of the house Royina, aware of Rajastahn's reputation for its renowned fortresses and palaces, decides to go on a bit of a tour of the countryside. Its an amusing tour. In Rajasthan, which is one of the least modernised areas of India,  it is very rare to see a woman traveling alone so her presence brings out many interesting females who are enthused by her boldness in a land where women are rarely free to choose the course of their own lives. Royina even tours the countryside on the back of a motorcycle in one scene. She claims to feel the nomadic spirit which may be true but she also feels the shopping spirit as well as she makes purchases here and there(including a pair of leather boots that are made for princes) that she is careful to note most Indians cannot afford. This is perhaps one of the problems with this book, Royina only leaves home for an eight week stretch and then writes her book. Other travel writers spend years in India before writing about it. She was born in India, given an education, and one surmises has always had a fair amount of money and freedom(she is careful to note her marriage was not an arranged one). She is one of the privileged westernized few and for her roughing it is a matter of choice and really she is not roughing it for she more often than not stays in the renovated and converted former palaces of the Rajasthan princes with their elaborate gardens. More a vacation than a tour of India I would say. Still she relates a lot of valuable and interesting information along the way and she has some good stories to tell and listens to others tell theirs. She no doubt has a real interest in womens liberation and that theme runs through the book. Nothing gives her greater pleasure than to see a woman asserting her independence(very rare in Rajasthan) and nothing hurts her more than to see a woman or girl in some form of bondage to a husband or small minded community or a religion. Royina places her hopes in the education system and she is touched to see a young tribal girl wearing a school uniform beneath her sari. As Royina says change happens very slowly in India but you have to keep chiseling away. A good book (perhaps designed to encourage tourism to the area) though compared to other Indian travel books(Norman Lewis, William Dalrymple)pretty light fare.g the way and she has some good stories to tell and listens to others tell theirs. She no doubt has a real interest in womens liberation and that theme runs through the book. Nothing gives her greater pleasure than to see a woman asserting her independence(very rare in Rajasthan) and nothing hurts her more than to see a woman or girl in some form of bondage to a husband or small minded community or a religion. Royina places her hopes in the education system and she is touched to see a young tribal girl wearing a school uniform beneath her sari. As Royina says change happens very slowly in India but you have to keep chiseling away. A good book (perhaps designed to encourage tourism to the area) though compared to other Indian travel books(Norman Lewis, William Dalrymple)pretty light fare.	2002-02-23
US	45344448	R29OJ0751EYRED	0313229554	554734061	East and West.	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Who among the gods set them twain to fight?	Parkinson spent eight years in Malay as a professor of history.  The brief author biography casts him as artist, journalist, soldier and historian. And part of the joy of this book is Parkinson himself who makes this 300 page history entertaining and informative in equal measures. In his introduction Parkinson writes, &quot;My view of history is one of many and no more accurate than any other. All that I can claim for my interpretation is that it may be thought specially relevent to the age in which we live&quot;.pg.4<br />The book was written in 1963 and Parkinsons theory is that the east and west have alternately been dominant, &quot;the periodic decline of one civilization creating a cultural vacuum that was filled by the adjacent rising culture.&quot; At the end of his book he predicts that the east is about to go through a period of ascendancy or renascence and that Russia allied with the west will be the &quot;new Byzantium&quot; which keeps the rising east at bay. Little could he have known in the cold war climate of 63 how prescient he would prove to be. Parkinson tells history in an easy going manner which nonetheless proves how comfortable he is with his material which ranges from the Persian Empire to Alexander the great to the Crusades and into the modern era of English Empire, Gandhi and the rise of marxism.  He records how from the earliest trade routes the east and west were in contact and so were never at any point purely east and west as there was a continual flow of influence between the two. Parkinson finds the east to have been the more advanced cicilization and to have had a more significant effect on the west than vice versa until 1500, at which time the west began to become technologically superior most markedly in its application of eastern navigational knowledge to discover the new world. After 1500 Parkinson suggests the western nations began a period of accelerated growth spurred on by competition between themselves that left the east far behind. One reason for this Parkinson claims is that in the east the different areas of expertise were strictly regulated by the caste system which did not encourage communication between the various branches of knowledge, while in the west there was much more social mobility and a freer exchange of ideas which allowed and encouraged the flow of knowledge which resulted in the wests great advances in the sciences and technologies.<br />But Parkinson also argues that the period of western ascendancy ended around 1850 at which time he believes began to lose faith in itself. And thus his prediction that the moment is ripe for an eastern ascendancy. Part of the reason for writing the book he says was in the hopes that by understanding this east west dynamic we will be better equipped to deal with these inevitable shifts in power in a peaceful manner. He also adds that he thinks the dynamic is a good one and preferable to a universalism which would lead to stagnation on both sides.hind. One reason for this Parkinson claims is that in the east the different areas of expertise were strictly regulated by the caste system which did not encourage communication between the various branches of knowledge, while in the west there was much more social mobility and a freer exchange of ideas which allowed and encouraged the flow of knowledge which resulted in the wests great advances in the sciences and technologies.  <BR>But Parkinson also argues that the period of western ascendancy ended around 1850 at which time he believes began to lose faith in itself. And thus his prediction that the moment is ripe for an eastern ascendancy. Part of the reason for writing the book he says was in the hopes that by understanding this east west dynamic we will be better equipped to deal with these inevitable shifts in power in a peaceful manner. He also adds that he thinks the dynamic is a good one and preferable to a universalism which would lead to stagnation on both sides.	2002-02-21
US	45344448	R3JEZCW5HK3EIL	0226779831	422115253	The Rhetoric of English India	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	The allegorization of empire:the suspicious narrative	Suleri's first two essays deal with Edmund Burke and Warren Hastings and the trial which began in 1787 and ended in 1794. Burke studied India for eighteen years and so aquired much more knowledge than his peers had attempted to aquire but his version of India was perhaps in the end no more real than theirs. Suleri sets up the actual trial which was on its surface an impeachment of th East India Companys Warren Hastings but in reality was a discourse about the nature of empire raising questions of power and accountability between merchant and government.  Suleri finds the discourse to be one which enabled each in defining the other to also be made aware of its own nature. Burke was an especially interesting figure bringing to bear on the discourse a formidable intellect perhaps better suited for the aesthetic sphere than the political and indeed the trial was initially attended by the public as if it were high theatre.  Burke's attempts to describe India are given thorough scrutiny by Suleri. Burke seems to make the point that India is beyond the Englishmans ken and yet he nonetheless makes many attempts to put India into words and Suleri makes much of the language he uses ie \\"we submit to what we admire, but we love what submits to us\\", such phrases Suleri feels speak volumes in our understanding of the dynamic that is English India.<br />The travel logs of Fanny Parks & Harriet Tytler are interesting to Suleri insofar as they present a particularly female challenge to the traditionally masculine discourse of empire. The female travel log was usually a passive document of 'sketches' which rendered a dynamic continent also passive by focusing on the India of the past, ruins and relics. Parks however does not content herself with the picturesque past but focuses on the dynamic present, with a special attention being given her female Indian counterparts.<br />The last four essays are on Kipling, Forster, Naipaul & Rushdie.<br />The Kipling essay focuses on the adolescence of Kim and how that adolescent openness closes into a narrower vision when Kim comes of age. She thus reads Kim as an \\"allegory of colonial education\\".<br />The Forster essay concentrates on the relationship between Aziz and Fielding in A Passage to India and how their relationship is indicative of the larger inability of cultural exchange between England and India.<br />The Naipaul and Rushdie essays are especially impressive as Suleri offers a complete reading of their works to date. She addresses some of the criticism of Naipauls work ,particularly of his Indian travel piece Area of Darkness, but she reads even that work as a natural step in his progress towards self-perception that finds its most complete expression in Enigma of Arrival. Her overall view of the author is much more generous than many other critical views of Naipaul as she reads in his work, \\"ironies of enablement\\" that she feels have continued relevance to the newer generation postcolonial authors.<br />Shame, Midnights Children & Satanic Verses by Rushdie all receive excellent and sustained attention. Suleri praises Rushdies postmodernist histories for their value as reconciling myths that create new openings.<br />Excellent book.e of Kim and how that adolescent openness closes into a narrower vision when Kim comes of age. She thus reads Kim as an \\"allegory of colonial education\\".<BR>The Forster essay concentrates on the relationship between Aziz and Fielding in A Passage to India and how their relationship is indicative of the larger inability of cultural exchange between England and India.<BR>The Naipaul and Rushdie essays are especially impressive as Suleri offers a complete reading of their works to date. She addresses some of the criticism of Naipauls work ,particularly of his Indian travel piece Area of Darkness, but she reads even that work as a natural step in his progress towards self-perception that finds its most complete expression in Enigma of Arrival. Her overall view of the author is much more generous than many other critical views of Naipaul as she reads in his work, \\"ironies of enablement\\" that she feels have continued relevance to the newer generation postcolonial authors. <BR>Shame, Midnights Children & Satanic Verses by Rushdie all receive excellent and sustained attention. Suleri praises Rushdies postmodernist histories for their value as reconciling myths that create new openings. <BR>Excellent book.	2002-02-20
US	45344448	R13IR3CO0C8YRW	0563205288	522885578	Indian Tales of the Raj	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent informal oral history	This book was written by Masani(who also authored a bio of Indira Gandhi)in respone to the Raj revival that took place in England in the 1980's. Masani is an Oxford educated Indian who did his doctoral thesis on Indian Nationalism and he sets the stage for this book with an opening chapter explaining the history behind  the rise of the Raj. At least from the English perspective it was the failure of the Moghul empire to maintain its systems of order which left a vacuum that the English filled, in the process adding administrative duties to already existent trading ones. At the hieght of British rule there were only 100,000 Englishman in India, effectively ruling millions. An astonishing fact that Masani attributes to an Empire not based on the preservation or extension of borders but one based on the continuance of trade. The empire was ineffect successful because of a tightly controlled administrative hierarchy. Masani does not take part in the Raj revival so much as use it as impetus to do his own research and the resulting book is a composite of interviews with Indians who worked alongside the English offering a valuable counterpoint to the English view of the Raj years. The book is a remarkable document that offers the student of history a chance to hear first hand accounts from the 'survivors' of colonialism(a term used to describe both the English and the Indian). A few of those Masani attempts to interview choose not to speak, preferring not to conjure a past they find to have been humiliating, but most invite the opportunity to offer their testament.<br />One particularly amusing account is of the judicial process where English judges presided over cases with non-English speaking defendants and witnesses. As a result translators were necessary.<br />  &quot;For example, one of the judges asked the interpreter to tell the witness to tell no unnecessary lies. And the interpreter said: 'Tell lies only when it is necessary.'&quot;<br />Some testaments are in the amusing category but there are many by Indians who were in positions of power (who were often more educated than the Englishman they worked beside) who nonetheless had to contend with the barriers constructed between the two races. Socially there was little mixing between the two races. Most accounts show that the British were fair in matters of law and allowing for a free Indian press, but unfair in matters of trade. The most glaring examples of mistreatment were in the military which was where the first signs of revolt began to foment.<br />A growing nationalist movement certainly tested the bonds that existed in the status quo and many anecdotes are offered about tellingly tense situatons and conversations(sometimes partially relieved by laughter) between the English and his Indian counterparts as independence became a growing inevitability.<br />Oral history telling at its best. Also included are several pages of photographs(33 photographs in all) documenting the dynamic of the English Indian relationship as it changed over time.amusing category but there are many by Indians who were in positions of power (who were often more educated than the Englishman they worked beside) who nonetheless had to contend with the barriers constructed between the two races. Socially there was little mixing between the two races. Most accounts show that the British were fair in matters of law and allowing for a free Indian press, but unfair in matters of trade. The most glaring examples of mistreatment were in the military which was where the first signs of revolt began to foment.<BR>A growing nationalist movement certainly tested the bonds that existed in the status quo and many anecdotes are offered about tellingly tense situatons and conversations(sometimes partially relieved by laughter) between the English and his Indian counterparts as independence became a growing inevitability.   <BR>Oral history telling at its best. Also included are several pages of photographs(33 photographs in all) documenting the dynamic of the English Indian relationship as it changed over time.	2002-02-15
US	45344448	R3Q73G17NNXX87	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	another one of Marlows inconclusive tales	To me the most intriguing aspect of Conrads fiction is his use of invented narrators because the invented narrator lends his stories a peculiar subjectivity. For Heart of Darkness he uses Marlow. By using Marlow to tell the tale Conrad can both relate his story and show the effect such a tale has on its teller. But Marlow is not the only teller as Conrad himself occupies a place outside the tale, an authorial space, and he is free to comment on both teller and tale from another vantage point altogether. I think this priveleged positioning is akin to the place of the audience in classic theatre. To Aristotle the great advantage of theatre was that the audience member could learn the lessons of the characters on stage without having to go through their experiences in the real world.<br />I think it is interesting that some professors teach this book as a cautionary tale using Kurtz as an example of what happens when one goes outside the ranks of (white)civilization. While others read Kurtz's story as an indictment of that civilization because Kurtz is just doing what other colonizers are doing but in a more extreme way. Kurtz has simply given up the pretense that the white man is bringing \\"civilization\\" to Africa. Kurtz's madness is one in the same with the madness that belies any such colonial endeavor. It is dehumanizing to both the colonizer and the colonized and that is perhaps the point that makes this a great tale.<br />Marlow remains puzzled by the whole thing to the very end. Africa has obviously gone to work on his imagination as the most powerful passages are his ruminations about the primal past he has journeyed into, but as well as journeying into the past he has journeyed into the \\"heart of darkness\\" which is not the same thing as the heart of Africa, but rather the heart of man. Conrad uses Marlow brilliantly to show how difficult it is to reconcile civilization with his profound knowledge of human nature. Marlows way of keeping things in balance is to tell the tale of Kurtz and other tales, as we are told that this is  \\"another one of Marlows inconclusive tales\\".<br />By using the invented narrator as the main character Conrad is able to tell two stories at once, Kurtz's and Marlow's.  The way Marlow tells the story is inconclusive for it is never clear just what makes one man stop short at the invisible and perhaps merely imaginary, though necessary, perimeters that we call civilization & another cross over them.<br />But it should not be overlooked that although Kurtz is an obvious example of colonialisms excesses, all those in the process of extracting ivory from central Africa were committing a violation upon the African people. The Nigerian novelist Chinua Achebe has written an essay in which he calls Conrad a racist. I don't think that is true but Achebe in his books offers a valuable and contrasting vision of Africa remarkably different than the one in Conrads book.  Achebe writes of the Igbo tribe which lived very near the region \\"Heart of Darkness\\" takes place in. In Things Fall Apart he describes the very peaceful Igbo tribe and how it was forever destroyed by the arrival of the white colonists.l the tale of Kurtz and other tales, as we are told that this is  \\"another one of Marlows inconclusive tales\\".  <BR>By using the invented narrator as the main character Conrad is able to tell two stories at once, Kurtz's and Marlow's.  The way Marlow tells the story is inconclusive for it is never clear just what makes one man stop short at the invisible and perhaps merely imaginary, though necessary, perimeters that we call civilization & another cross over them. <BR>But it should not be overlooked that although Kurtz is an obvious example of colonialisms excesses, all those in the process of extracting ivory from central Africa were committing a violation upon the African people. The Nigerian novelist Chinua Achebe has written an essay in which he calls Conrad a racist. I don't think that is true but Achebe in his books offers a valuable and contrasting vision of Africa remarkably different than the one in Conrads book.  Achebe writes of the Igbo tribe which lived very near the region \\"Heart of Darkness\\" takes place in. In Things Fall Apart he describes the very peaceful Igbo tribe and how it was forever destroyed by the arrival of the white colonists.	2002-02-12
US	45344448	R5T9GJMQNEDUN	0520204867	366242624	Indian Traffic: Identities in Question in Colonial and Postcolonial India	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Identity traffic & Indian Nationalism:mimic man/mimic woman	Using that most famous identity trafficker Sir Richard Burton as a starting point Parama Roy is concerned with examining colonial mimicry (which has been much discussed by figures such as Frantz Fanon and Homi Bhabha)first as it functioned in colonial India but also as it continues to function in postcolonial Indian life, especially in regards to issues of national identity. Following a chronological trajectory beginning with Burton the second essay discusses the cult of Kali worshipping assassins known as the thugs who plied their own talents at mimicry to lure unsuspecting travelers to their death. The thugs identity altering talent challenged in most interesting ways British assumptions about Indian identity and knowability. Along with a history of the thug sect and the detectives who had to penetrate the secret order is a discussion of John Master's novel and the Merchant Ivory film version of that novel, The Deceivers. The third chapter deals with the Anglo-Indian Kipling, both the Strickland stories and the novel Kim.  Roy is careful to explain that Kipling felt the Anglo-Indian(which Kipling himself was) to be quite distinct from the Englishman, and therefore in a unique position to understand India in ways the Englishman could not.  Into her examinination of Kim whose identity is an always shifting discourse between traditionally \\"English\\" and traditionally \\"Indian\\" roles(which are never seen to be fixed in any of the characters only affirmed and reaffirmed in a continual exchange), she inserts a discussion of the nature of nationalism. Like the mimic man or mimic woman a nation must continually define itself against what it is not and it does this at borderlands both literal(India that which is not England)and other borderlands as well(man/woman, Muslim/Hindu) in an ongoing \\"derivative discourse\\" . This essay opens the way to the final three which all deal with female figures and how careful their roles have to be staged in order for them to play a part in Indias national polity.<br />The first is the story of a western womans religious discipleship to an Indian guru and how her willing display of subjugation was used by him to display his own masculinity and thereby offer Indian men an example of what qualites were needed to become a self-governing nation. The second is the story of a 16 year old Indian poetess who on a visit to England is refashioned from brilliant protege writing brilliant Tennyson flavored verse into an \\"authentic\\" Indian poet by English Orientalists. The essay traces her development from poet who champions the traditional devotionary role of women  to her own lived role as  well known figure alongside Gandhi. Roy shows what an infectious speaker she was but also what a troubling presence she was in her silk robes and jewelry next to the ascetic Gandhi. The last essay deals with the way a film actress came to represent Mother India by playing the role in a movie that made her not just a star but a national figure representing Mother India to all despite the fact that she was a Muslim. Roys explanation of the dynamic of this film stars  god-like status which had always to be staged(as she was a Muslim)is a fitting finale to this intriguing book of intriguing identities trafficking at the borderlands of India.Indias national polity. <BR>The first is the story of a western womans religious discipleship to an Indian guru and how her willing display of subjugation was used by him to display his own masculinity and thereby offer Indian men an example of what qualites were needed to become a self-governing nation. The second is the story of a 16 year old Indian poetess who on a visit to England is refashioned from brilliant protege writing brilliant Tennyson flavored verse into an \\"authentic\\" Indian poet by English Orientalists. The essay traces her development from poet who champions the traditional devotionary role of women  to her own lived role as  well known figure alongside Gandhi. Roy shows what an infectious speaker she was but also what a troubling presence she was in her silk robes and jewelry next to the ascetic Gandhi. The last essay deals with the way a film actress came to represent Mother India by playing the role in a movie that made her not just a star but a national figure representing Mother India to all despite the fact that she was a Muslim. Roys explanation of the dynamic of this film stars  god-like status which had always to be staged(as she was a Muslim)is a fitting finale to this intriguing book of intriguing identities trafficking at the borderlands of India.	2002-02-10
US	45344448	R7T96JLD56QVG	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Center Cannot Hold	Achebes novel of life in an Igbo village is very enjoyable and interesting as it depicts characters with human qualites and flaws that are very recognizable. Especially memorable are scenes of a witch(who lives outside the tribe but is seen to be an integral part of it), the yam festival, and the way the tribe deals with imbalance within. The organic structure of the tribe is especially appealing and apparent as its self-regulating laws and beliefs are a built-in way of maintaining continuity with the past and maintaining a balanced way of life .  What the tribe cannot portend is the arrival of the colonist.<br />Achebe said he wrote this, his first, book because he did not recognize his country in the way that white authors like Conrad and Joyce Cary depicted it. In fact in addition to being a novelist Achebe has achieved much notoriety as an essayist and spokesman for postcolonial peoples. One particular essay is often cited as a seminal text in the field,&quot;An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness&quot;.<br />Also by Achebe: Man of the People, Arrow of God(these two, both written in the sixties, complete the trilogy begun with Things Fall Apart,1958). And the excellent, Anthills of the Savannah(1988)about a modern African leader who slowly becomes a despot and his group of friends which include a reporter.	2002-02-08
US	45344448	R3NKV3LTQRL5IZ	0582237971	45899605	Postcolonial Criticism (Longman Critical Readers)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	excellent extended introduction to ten exemplary essays	The long and admirable 70 page introduction outlines the postcolonial field of studies in as succinct and lucid a manner as possible taking special care to note that in this field there is no such thing as consensus. The fields most marked characteristic is perhaps its diversity which is not too surprising given the wide scope of historic, cultural and psychic circumstance now under its scrutiny. Excellent summaries of the primary figures in the field as well as an awareness of the provisionality of any self-definition (of both the field of study and the political reality), for as postcolonial theories evolve so do the definitions of the postcolonial.<br />Essays: 1)Cesaire from Discourse on Colonialism 2)Fanon On National Culture 3)Achebe An Image of Africa:Racism in Conrad's Heart of Darkness 4)Said Orientalism Revisited 5)Spivak Three Womens Texts and a Critique of Imperialism 6)Bhabha Race, Time, and Revision of Modernity 7)Bryden/Tiffin West Indian Literature and the Australian Comparison 8)Bell Hooks Revolutionary Black Women:Making Ourselves Subject 9)JanMohamed/Lloyd Toward a Theory of Minority Discourse: What is to be done? 10)Ahmad from In Theory:Classes, Nations, Literatures.	2002-02-08
US	45344448	R2RCQ5XDASY43B	0865472033	838994749	Around the Day in Eighty Worlds	Books	5	14	14	N	N	One Julio Speaks of Another	Julio Cortazar was named after Jules Verne who he read as a child and thus the title of the book. The book is full of photographs, drawings, engravings but most importantly Julio's words. Not really a book to read from cover to cover more like a book to sift through now and then.<br />If you are a Cortazar fan then you know of his other books:<br />Bestiario(1951) later published as End of the Game or Blow-up.<br />Rayuela(1963) later published as Hopscotch.<br />Todos los fuegos el fuego(1966) later published as All Fires the Fire. (This collection contains my favorite Cortazar story, &quot;The Southern Thruway&quot;.) &amp; many other books.<br />This book will appeal to both longtime fans and also those who want to get to know Cortazar for the first time.<br />I was lucky enough to find a hard cover in a used book shop and that is a nice way to own this because it is a book which will be picked up and put down often. On the cover is a wonderful painting by Paul Delvaux The Nightwatchman.<br />I love Julio's stories and highly recommend them to anyone. His novels I think are for a more select group of readers, those who have a lot of patience for long experiments. I like Cortazars short experiments best and this book has,well, at least eighty.<br />You get some of his fiction but also you get his essays on Poe(he translated the works of Poe into Spanish), Louis Armstrong, Thelonius Monk and Marcel Duchamp, Jose Lezama Lima.... which should give you some idea of what kind of things occupied Julios always curious mind. This more than any other of Julio Cortazars books is a collage-book.<br />This book is perhaps my favorite Cortazar because it is so varied in its subject matter that I never tire of it or feel like I have uncovered all its secrets.	2002-02-06
US	45344448	R2JQ17K56C8K4K	0394753585	609202658	All Fires the Fire	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Eight stories, eight new ways of seeing	My favorite Cortazar short story is &quot;The Southern Thruway&quot; with its hilariously dry epigraph:<BR>Sweltering motorists do not seem to have a history...As a reality a traffic jam is impressive, but it doesn't say much.-Arrigo Benedetti, L'Espresso, Rome, 6.21.64<BR>Cortazar reminds me of Kafka and Nabokov, Calvino and of course Borges, but also of an author who came after him Antonio Tabucchi who also writes strange stories.  <BR>Cortazar like these others is known for being a fabulist, an inventor of worlds, and he is, but what makes any fiction wonderful is how true it is. Sometimes the fantastic is a more direct route to the real nature of reality than is the more obvious realist one. Thats not to say Cortazar writes sci fi but just that he always approaches the world in a way that is surprising and so he renders the ordinary extraordinary better even than those that I mentioned along side of him. Some of the stories are light and some dark and they all have the allure of upsetting the normal flow of things which we know as reality, at which time the curious begin to question the nature of that reality and perhaps in their questioning begin to search among the wreckage of the old reality for a different kind of order, one that no one had previously thought existed. What better task is there for an author or reader than to search for new realities?<BR>Originally published in 1966, English edition 1973.	2002-02-06
US	45344448	R53CUVQ0TUQ0J	1573225142	106716475	The Western Canon: The Books and School of the Ages	Books	3	17	32	N	N	wisdom of the ages, including our own	Well I think any list of books, and this one is only 26 items long, is absurdly reductive. I also think any discussion of \\"the canon\\" would benefit from perhaps a short history of the idea of \\"the western canon\\", as well as a brief examination of how and why it has changed or stayed the same over time. I assume the idea has certain precedent. I also assume  the way we approach the topic today is much different than the approaches taken in previous centuries.<br />  The approach Bloom brings to the topic is a reactionary one. Blooms argument is responsive to current academic trends like multiculturalism and pluralism. To these trends which propose adding non-western texts as well as new approaches to the interpreting of texts new and \\"canonical\\", Bloom offers his conservative reproach. The argument isn't a simple one but it isn't hard to follow either. Bloom wants to adhere to a tradional few texts and he wants the study of these texts to be done in a traditonal way. The study of the humanities in the west has taken place with relative autonomy from the political sphere and Bloom wants the humanities to remain autonomous. The newer schools (marxist, new criticism, postcolonial)believe a text and learning in general cannot be divorced from its historical or political circumstance and thus they prefer an approach that does not grant the humanities any special privilege or autonomy from the other spheres of life. Bloom is defending the Ivory Tower approach and he is also defending, in a less obvious way, the west.<br />  There is of course between the extremes of conservative Bloom and Edward Said(to state a well known name as an example, Bloom doesn't mention names) a middle and common ground, the pursuit of truth. To cling to a few texts does not appear to me to be a pursuit of truth but a retreat from it. The best kinds of readers/thinkers/scholars can accomadate what is new without abandoning the best that tradition has given us. I think Bloom favors the past and in so doing relegates himself to live in it. As a thinker Bloom belongs to the Aristocratic age(he divides his book up using Vico's historical stages:Aristocratic, Democratic, Chaotic). Vico, a seventeenth century Italian philosopher,  is a thinker that both conservative humanist Bloom and  neo-humanist Said both admire. To me and to many I imagine Bloom is overly conservative and Said, though a sometimes profound thinker, is not always on the mark. However thinkers that have followed in Saids wake have done some excellent work with literature allowing very interesting interdisciplinary issues to be brought to bear on literary texts like the question of essentialism to name just one. So I think Blooms book is overly reactionary because it does not properly comprehend what the new schools really have to offer. And what they have to offer does not steal anything away from the humanites but breathe new life into them. The canon is not in any danger of anything but new and exciting interpretation which will exist beside and be measured next to more traditional ones.d in so doing relegates himself to live in it. As a thinker Bloom belongs to the Aristocratic age(he divides his book up using Vico's historical stages:Aristocratic, Democratic, Chaotic). Vico, a seventeenth century Italian philosopher,  is a thinker that both conservative humanist Bloom and  neo-humanist Said both admire. To me and to many I imagine Bloom is overly conservative and Said, though a sometimes profound thinker, is not always on the mark. However thinkers that have followed in Saids wake have done some excellent work with literature allowing very interesting interdisciplinary issues to be brought to bear on literary texts like the question of essentialism to name just one. So I think Blooms book is overly reactionary because it does not properly comprehend what the new schools really have to offer. And what they have to offer does not steal anything away from the humanites but breathe new life into them. The canon is not in any danger of anything but new and exciting interpretation which will exist beside and be measured next to more traditional ones.	2002-02-06
US	45344448	R3OOHILNFHLTFX	0940322315	855852302	The Winners (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Discreet Charm of The Lottery Winners	I read and enjoy Cortazar in the same way I enjoy Luis Bunuel films, in fact I think Bunuel could have made a wonderful film of THE WINNERS. Like Bunuel, Cortazar finds the things we accept as normal to be quite absurd but also like Bunuel he has a certain affection for those he makes fun of. All those on board the Malcolm are guilty of some sort of petty prejudice or limited world view but they all mingle and tolerate one another to a point. When things go absurdly wrong the lottery winners begin to wonder what it is they've actually won. Cortazar is an existential comic. A book which succeeds because it never forgets that despite our differences we are all bound together by our not knowing exactly what is going. With a little help from Cortazar we can see that knowing is just a pretense.<br />Perhaps the novel like Camus Plague is a parable with many possible levels of meaning. Not the least of which is the political level. After all Cortazar left Argentina under Peron to live and write in exile.	2002-02-03
US	45344448	R2128R9MLBDLLG	8120606795	237367122	Goa and the Blue Mountains or Six Months of Sick Leave	Books	4	15	16	N	N	In Goa, History Speaks to Burton	What could be better than Victorian travel literature by Richard F. Burton. Not much. Burton is no slouch when it comes to travel, he takes the hard routes across his continents not the comfy ones that his fellows take and so he sees more and is better able to put the \\"normal\\" English experience of India into a wider context. Burton  is never given the tasks or assignments he had hoped to get so he sets himself the task, out of mere boredom perhaps, of categorically describing India, its geography, ethnography, religions. He describes India in all manner of ways of describing a place including history of its cities and Goa's history is quite ripe with meaning for Burton as it tells the story of why the Portugese empire fell..., a tale which Burton feels has a lesson for the English. That he was an expert linguist helps and that he had an appetite, insatiable apparently, for all kinds of experience makes his book a kind of interdisciplinary collection of datas, some more significant than others but the effect is that he experienced a place in every way imaginable. He was romantic in that he was not suited to live within anyones boundaries but his own(he was expelled from Oxford),  and scholarly, but his was a kind of scholarship that tested existing knowledge of India in the field. Perhaps a growing disillusion with England &  what it really was to be English made him particularly susceptible to other knowledges and ways of being. He learned an immense amount about the lives of various natives by blending in and acting as one of them but he did this much as a spy does this, as a means of gaining information, not as an end in itself. He was perfectly suited to be a spy. Properly used someone like Burton would have been an invaluable source of information as to what actual Indians thought. If there were more like him the empire would have better understood the country it was ruling over and so more effectively ruled it, however, most Englishman felt it best to erect and enforce an invisible boundary between himself and the cultures of India. And Burton, who often dressed according to local custom even in his English quarters, was not popular among his peers nor was his information ever taken very seriously. His commanding officers simply were unable to see the value in his ability to play so many roles and so were unable to give him a role worthy of him to play. Among his narrow minded fellow officers he became his own man,  a self-styled cultural anthropologist with a minor disciplinary interest in ethnographic mimicry who filled volumes with his very rare and particular talents for cross-cultural interaction and observation.<br />Like many travel narratives the highlights are in the little details(uncomfortable transports, unfriendly hosts) and side stories. No detail is ever lost on Burton and in matters of stories what counts most is the personality of their teller. There is none better than Burton.d enforce an invisible boundary between himself and the cultures of India. And Burton, who often dressed according to local custom even in his English quarters, was not popular among his peers nor was his information ever taken very seriously. His commanding officers simply were unable to see the value in his ability to play so many roles and so were unable to give him a role worthy of him to play. Among his narrow minded fellow officers he became his own man,  a self-styled cultural anthropologist with a minor disciplinary interest in ethnographic mimicry who filled volumes with his very rare and particular talents for cross-cultural interaction and observation.<BR>Like many travel narratives the highlights are in the little details(uncomfortable transports, unfriendly hosts) and side stories. No detail is ever lost on Burton and in matters of stories what counts most is the personality of their teller. There is none better than Burton.	2002-02-01
US	45344448	RZRN7RJSFTUTS	0192835130	256512938	Kim (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	when east and west do meet	Rudyard Kipling's reputation fell for awhile because many critics interpreted him as a mere apologist for empire. Recent criticism has reviewed his work in new light and has found his work, both stories and Kim, to be much more ambivalent about the relationship between ruler and ruled than traditional opinion held it to be. Traditional critics have often interpreted the ending of novel to portray Kim as having defintively chosen the English side of his English/Indian duality. Such interpretaion makes it seem Kipling himself thought that the English way was the better. Some of the postcolonial literary theorists , however, find no resolution of Kims character in the end of the novel but interpret the ending as just another indication of Kims ongoing ambivalence as he straddles two very distinct cultures.  Perhaps only in the interior worlds of characters like Kim do the east and the west meet. Such a reading makes the experience of reading the book a much less resolved and so richer one. Also the stories are full of a similar ambivalence about English rule in India. Kipling often employs invented narrators who are used ironically to comment on the action of the stories being told. Some reviewers interpret the invented narrators views to be Kiplings own, a mistake which leads to simplified readings of the stories which are full of unresolved and contradictory elements. Kipling as shown by the careful readings of postcolonial critics was a much more complex character than he was traditionally thought to be and whose fiction refelects his own complex ambivalence toward the English presence in India.	2002-02-01
US	45344448	R3GTZLGHKNT9SV	0394752848	317320204	Hopscotch: A Novel (Pantheon Modern Writers Series)	Books	5	33	39	N	N	The Great Julio's Collage	One thing you won't find in Julio Cortazar's many excellent short stories is anything in the way of biographical data and Cortazar is thus a mysterious figure to his readers who constructs fictions from some marginal unidentifiable place. If you want to know about Cortazar the man you have to research on your own. Born in Belgium(1914) to Argentine parents the family returned to Argentina after WW1 . Julio grew up and attended university and made a living as a translator(Poe and others). Though offered a university position he refused it in protest of the Peron government and thus spent many years teaching grade school(which may explain why so many childrens or naive adult prespectives are employed in his work) then he left for Paris sometime in the fifties. So in Paris he wrote in exile and played trumpet in a Jazz band and lived the life of the boheme until his death in 1984. Hopscotch therefore with its bohemian characters and situations may lead one to assume Horacio is a sort of fictional version of Cortazar. I thought that at first and that was one reason the book was so exciting because I already liked his stories so much. The book is exciting to a point but I think it demands more patience with its methods than some may wish to give it. You can't really compare it to a novel in any conventional sense because there is very little plot  and the characters exist only in mere sketch form, we know them only by the ideas they have. This works in Musil, an author mentioned in Hopscotch, but Man Without Quailities is a novel with many dimensions(political, historical, cultural, social)whereas Hopscotch only has one dimension. Since the novel/collage is 564 pages you may find yourself tiring of Horacios thoughts. And I don't think Horacio is a fictional Cortazar. I think Cortazar is writing a modern novel about a hyper modern creature. All of the things lacking in modernism are also lacking in Horacio. I think Cortazar may sympathize with Horacio but he is ultimately using him to show how lost someone can get when he is divorced from all those spheres of activity(political, historical, cultural, social)that modernism ignores. I read Hopscotch now differently than when I first read it. Now I perhaps see better that what is missing from it is a crucial part of it and perhaps such is the art of the collage artist. An art which remains incomplete...free in its unhibited exploration of the exile with no ties, yes, but as Janis Joplin said \\"Freedom is just another word for nothing left to lose\\".using him to show how lost someone can get when he is divorced from all those spheres of activity(political, historical, cultural, social)that modernism ignores. I read Hopscotch now differently than when I first read it. Now I perhaps see better that what is missing from it is a crucial part of it and perhaps such is the art of the collage artist. An art which remains incomplete...free in its unhibited exploration of the exile with no ties, yes, but as Janis Joplin said \\"Freedom is just another word for nothing left to lose\\".	2002-01-31
US	45344448	R92JF2GJAV0DY	0631200711	830206721	Postcolonialism: An Historical Introduction	Books	5	3	4	N	N	ideas, cultures, histories	This book shows both the advantages and disadvantages of the survey approach to postcolonial studies. As an overview it a valuable introduction to the historical impact the various forms of imperial rule and its aftermath had in a wide variety of locations but the best studies concentrate on one specific location at a time. Postcolonial theory is also best understood in specific context as each regions history largely determines the theory that has grown within and been responsive to its specific circumstance. Thus theory as practiced in West Africa is sharply distinct from that practiced in the Caribbean or India. The comparative survey form has the advantage of being in the best position to register global movements and historical shifts but also presents the danger of reenacting colonization by presenting a collection of exotic settings and circumstance for study in the academic setting which leads to some of the criticism of postcolonial studies and theory in particular as radical chic, ie refashioning the third world in terms that make it interesting  for consumption by western intelligentsia.  Recent work in the field presents an additional danger of giving the postcolonial  the postmodern treatment, a convenient alliance of posts which may serve the academic communitys need for perpetual reformulation, but a perilously reductive approach. Good completely competent introduction, though there are at least four or five other choices in this category which cover the same ground.	2002-01-27
US	45344448	R23UDYLT0URELV	0375709363	809322254	The Edward Said Reader	Books	3	22	30	N	N	news and reviews	I think the best way to understand Said is to see him as an admirer of culture, especially western literature, but an uneasy admirer. Said was not born in one of the European capitols but in Egypt and so he grew up well aware of the east/west conflict & nowhere was that conflict more apparent than in the Palestine and Israel situation. Perhaps his own background and growing involvement in Middle Eastern affairs led him to begin reading the classic western texts in a more critical way than those that came before him and from western backgrounds. As an easterner Said in his cultural studies was therefore especially attuned to the way the east was representated in the west. Judging by his 1978 study Orientalism he was appalled at what he found.<br />There were schools of criticism that dealt with economic realities and historic realites before Said but only a few studies had concentrated on racial bias as a determining factor in cultural production(ie:Benita Parry's 1972 Delusions and Discoveries). Saids approach was groundbreaking and it brought to cultural studies a very timely and responsive social relevance. No one can really ignore the impact that Orientalism had. Even though the ideas in the book were all in circulation before Saids book Orientalism brought a new intensity and immediacy to them. To Said cultural artifacts can never be divorced from their political context and so his work often resituates each work he discusses within the political situation from which it arose. This is often very interesting but not without considerable controversy because while Said can be quite a profound thinker he cann also be a highly speculative one as well. Many of his arguments hinge on only partially convincing evidence and so to follow him is sometimes more an act of faith than one of reason.	2002-01-27
US	45344448	R1IXFS143YE0B4	1859840345	9549061	Postcolonial Theory: Contexts, Practices, Politics	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	postcolonial theory in readable prose, a perfect study	The first section of this five part book outlines the short history of the discipline as it evolved from commonwealth literature into what we now know as postcolonial studies. And an important history to tell it is as the field has been marked by controversy from its very inception and continues to search for a definition of itself in an atmosphere of almost constant dissension from outsiders and from within its own ranks. The middle three essays are each summaries and critiques of the works of the main three practitioners of postcolonial theory. The last essay an examination of the fields current status(c.1997). The inidividual assessment of Said is particularly satisfying as it collects together the many criticisms of Orientalism in one place and addresses them all. Moore-Gilbert, though one assumes not a disinterested member of the postcolonial studies community himself, nonetheless gives a sound and fair assessment of Said finding many methodological inconsistencies in Orientalism most of which remain only partially resolved in the later work Culture and Imperialism.  In the final paragraph of the essay he concludes,&quot;Saids influence has been evident in a number of disciplinary fields, to an extent matched only by a handful(at most)of other contemporary cultural critics. In comparative literature,anthropology, sociology,area studies and political science, as well as English literature, Said's ideas have aroused widespread interest and excitement and have enabled a very considerable amount of subsequent work.&quot; And this glowing assessment is then qualified a bit with a quote from Michael Sprinker.&quot;Specialists in these fields have often been critical of his interventions, but they have on the whole not been able to ignore or dismiss him out of hand.&quot;<br />Bart Moore-Gilbert's treatment of Gayatri Spivak, a figure that also does not fit easily into any one discipline but in addition practices a kind of work which defies any easy summarization, is nonetheless dealt with admirably and is given praise albeit of a  tentative sort as she seeks in her work a form of discourse whereby the Other can speak. She chooses for the most part not to answer her famous question in essay form,&quot;Can the subaltern speak?&quot; but continues to try and make it possible for others to answer it for her.  Moore-Gilbert concludes, &quot;Perhaps the most enabling element in all of Spivak's work is the emphasis on the importance of trying to recognize and hear the Other woman in her  terms(even if this involves, quite literally, learning her language)and not simply assimilating her unproblematically to Western values,  histories and regimes of knowledge...&quot;<br />In his 1996 book Writing India Bart Moore-Gilbert presented an essay: 'The Bhabhal of Tongues,'  reading Kipling, reading Bhabha. In that essay he analyzes both the short story, &quot;On the City Wall&quot; and the novel Kim using theories initiated by Bhabha, an impressive combination of criticism and applied theory.  As a way out of the traditional mode of interpreting Kim as torn between being English and being Indian, Moore-Gilbert uses Bhabhas theory of 'the in-between'  to offer a third possibility or 'third space'. In this study that 'third space' is gone into in much greater depth.<br />The final essay is a summing up and offers speculation as to  what the future of postcolonial studies will look like. One certaintly is that no one approach will suffice nor satisfy such a restlessly creative field which will no doubt remain so for some time to come.netheless dealt with admirably and is given praise albeit of a  tentative sort as she seeks in her work a form of discourse whereby the Other can speak. She chooses for the most part not to answer her famous question in essay form,&quot;Can the subaltern speak?&quot; but continues to try and make it possible for others to answer it for her.  Moore-Gilbert concludes, &quot;Perhaps the most enabling element in all of Spivak's work is the emphasis on the importance of trying to recognize and hear the Other woman in her  terms(even if this involves, quite literally, learning her language)and not simply assimilating her unproblematically to Western values,  histories and regimes of knowledge...&quot;<BR>In his 1996 book Writing India Bart Moore-Gilbert presented an essay: 'The Bhabhal of Tongues,'  reading Kipling, reading Bhabha. In that essay he analyzes both the short story, &quot;On the City Wall&quot; and the novel Kim using theories initiated by Bhabha, an impressive combination of criticism and applied theory.  As a way out of the traditional mode of interpreting Kim as torn between being English and being Indian, Moore-Gilbert uses Bhabhas theory of 'the in-between'  to offer a third possibility or 'third space'. In this study that 'third space' is gone into in much greater depth.<BR>The final essay is a summing up and offers speculation as to  what the future of postcolonial studies will look like. One certaintly is that no one approach will suffice nor satisfy such a restlessly creative field which will no doubt remain so for some time to come.	2002-01-26
US	45344448	R2MSJZRRECFZUQ	0415054060	541940472	The Location of Culture (Routledge Classics) (Volume 55)	Books	5	29	44	N	N	Obscure but ultimately an eye(and text) opening theory	Bhabha is writing about a terrain which is perhaps best understood when being applied to a specific text. The theory all by itself sounds fascinating but obscure,  when you see Bhabhas theory in practice, however,it makes all kinds of sense and yields extremely nuanced readings of texts you may have thought you knew very well.<br />In Writing India(published 1996) Bart Moore-Gilbert uses Bhabha's theory to great effect in his analysis of Kipling.<br />Also Bart Moore-Gilbert gives an excellent and concise summary of Bhabhas work as well as excellent summaries of Said and Spivak(as well as detailed analysis of criticisms of their work) in  Postcolonial Theory Contexts Practices(published 1997).  All in crystal clear prose.	2002-01-24
US	45344448	R1PPNXX7A1W0MY	0719042658	519700464	Writing India 1757-1990: The Literature of British India	Books	5	2	2	N	N	excellent work combining close readings and theory	Published in 1996 this book addresses issues first raised with the book which initiated postcolonial theory, Edward Said's Orientalism. While challenging some of Saids methods and conclusions Bart Moore-Gilbert and his colleagues present a much more focused and nuanced approach to postcolonial theory.<br />As Moore-Gilbert writes in the introductory essay:<br /> For too long now, colonial discourse analysis, as derived from Orientalism,has assumed that identical regimes of power and knowledge organised both the political management of empire and all the varied literature which represented it.<br />Writing India thus practices postcolonial theory(\\"informed by questions of gender, sexuality, and psychic effect in colonial relations\\") and presents an ongoing critique of it concurrently.<br />The nine essay include analysis of work by following authors: Kipling, Forster, Scott,as well as material from eighteenth century and Romantic period and the writng of British women on India. It concludes with a chapter on Salman Rushdie \\"to suggest the complex relation of continuity as well as conflict between colonial and postcolonial constructions of India\\".  Also in 1997 Moore-Gilbert published a concisely written study of the three main postcolonial theorists (Said, Spivak, Bhabha)along with a detailed analysis of the criticism of their work called Postcolonial Theory, Contexts, Practices, Politics.	2002-01-23
US	45344448	RQI0S2RGNK6IG	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	3	23	37	N	N	Old and New Knowledges	Said is convinced after reading virtually all of the existent orientalist literature that something smells rotten in the orientalist libraries of the world. It is his conjecture that orientalists all belong to the same club, read the same books, and so not surprisingly they all come to the same conclusions.<br />This is an intriguing conjecture and one cannot help suspecting that this is at least in part very possibly true. However Said does not spend a lot of time with each book and/or author he analyzes and as a result his analysis seem superficial. Often Said extracts but one quote from an entire multi-volume study and on the basis of that one quote makes spectacular claims about authorial limitations and biases. He does this over and over again. Thats not to say that the orientalists are completely innocent of the charges Said brings up against them just that this scholarly trial is not a fair one. An exhaustive study of any one of the orientalist scholars would certainly show each man to have strengths and weaknesses, but Said doesn't present a balanced study of each mans work(and there are a lot of very distinct personalities in the orientalist library), he dismantles them one by one on the basis of their weaknesses. So while Said may be correct in not taking orientalist scholarship at its word I think he is incorrect in taking his argument to such an extreme as to indicate everything in the orientalist library is at best tainted and at worst utterly fraudelent. Said goes too far and as a result while reading (Saids)Orientalism I lost faith in Said to give an accurate assessment of the topic. I came away from the book feeling that there was more in the orientalist library than in Saids slender philosophy. What is most interesting to me is that I've yet to encounter any book which offers a  view of the orient which would seriously contradict the one put forth by the famous orientalists. Said and the postcolonial group write a lot of books examining the influence empire had on literary output. All these books criticize orientalist authors but none offer any alternative way to see the east. In other words if you read a modern account of the east by a travel writer like William Dalrymple you are likely to find his observations not to be all that dissimilar to observations made by a nineteenth century travel writer. I think it quite possible that the postcolonial theorists(and Said is their most outspoken member)are a new kind of club and this club has its own rules and reads the same books and come to the same conclusions. Said quotes Vico in his study and says that all knowledge is man made. The orientalists made one kind of knowledge and the postcolonial theorist  have registered their complaint about the orientalist kind of knowledge but the theorists have yet to make any headway in creating a new kind of knowledge which they would deem more accurate.empire had on literary output. All these books criticize orientalist authors but none offer any alternative way to see the east. In other words if you read a modern account of the east by a travel writer like William Dalrymple you are likely to find his observations not to be all that dissimilar to observations made by a nineteenth century travel writer. I think it quite possible that the postcolonial theorists(and Said is their most outspoken member)are a new kind of club and this club has its own rules and reads the same books and come to the same conclusions. Said quotes Vico in his study and says that all knowledge is man made. The orientalists made one kind of knowledge and the postcolonial theorist  have registered their complaint about the orientalist kind of knowledge but the theorists have yet to make any headway in creating a new kind of knowledge which they would deem more accurate.	2002-01-22
US	45344448	R3UP20Y71FROBP	0671657151	12401298	The Closing of the American Mind	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Blooms De-Politicized Academy	Well if this book was your first introduction to the Great Thinkers of Greece then Bloom is right there is something seriously wrong with higher education in the west. Bloom believes in a particular kind of education and I don't disagree with the kind of education he has in mind. He of course has nothing against current trends in thought(some good,some bad) but he wants you to have the proper skills as a thinking person to deal with the things of this world intelligently and critically and so be capable of sorting it out on your own. The way he sees most fit to prepare you to do this is to remain fast and true to those first pioneers of western thought, Socrates and Plato. I think I agree with Bloom on many points, especially his assessment of the modern university. It is a mess. Smart people who come out of a university today usually are smart despite their experience at the university not because of it. Its not that professors are bad but there aren't too many with Blooms scope of intelligence. Most remain in very specific areas and teach very specific subjects and do not convey to students a love of learning in the broadest sense. In todays university there is no time to learn how to learn, you just learn. However even without a master plan in place you do sort of catch on after awhile as to what is good thinking and what is bad thinking. I think what really bothers Bloom is that not everyone catches on. And some of those that never caught on have now ended up as university professors. It is obvious the type which he finds to be the worst. The type which write books which apply current or trendy theories, and revisit our intellectual and cultural history with a big red marker, correcting the wests &quot;errors&quot;. This approach undermines Blooms approach. In a way both approaches are extreme but given the choice Blooms is certainly preferable and there really is very little room for a middle ground in this debate. I think Bloom is perhaps too conservative for my tastes but I would rather have a prof. who seemed like an old fogey whom I actually learned a sound method of reasoning from than one of the other types which just puts forth the current way of thinking, because current becomes passe very quickly. Blooms method of reasoning might sound very Reagan eighties but it isn't. He uses the same kind of reasoning the old Greeks did and he makes an equally timeless point, urging us to choose reason(and its rewards:the good the true and the beautiful) over mere fashion(no rewards but you may make a big splash in the media).  I do think the book is valuable, as well as the books by that other Bloom, Harold. These guys know their stuff. They aren't perfect though and I do disagree with some of their finer points. Both would benefit from having another intelligence in the room when they begin because like many professors they tend to pontificate(which leads to some people misunderstanding them) when another tone would perhaps better suit their ends. Dialogue after all is the Greek way, a dialogue about education by these two like minds would have been interesting. Certainly conservative(in the academic sense)does not mean that there is no room for discussion nor does it imply conservative politically, it just indicates the style of discussion that will occur, a tradition bound one. I have found,perhaps ironically, that a conservative academic often is the more open minded one and (with the ultimate end being learning, not indoctrination) will entertain alternative points of view in conversation more readily than the liberal academic who often adheres rather stringently to a rather narrow agenda and point of view(the liberation of one group or another)and so it is not so much learning that is taking place but something very much resembling a political point being made.my tastes but I would rather have a prof. who seemed like an old fogey whom I actually learned a sound method of reasoning from than one of the other types which just puts forth the current way of thinking, because current becomes passe very quickly. Blooms method of reasoning might sound very Reagan eighties but it isn't. He uses the same kind of reasoning the old Greeks did and he makes an equally timeless point, urging us to choose reason(and its rewards:the good the true and the beautiful) over mere fashion(no rewards but you may make a big splash in the media).   I do think the book is valuable, as well as the books by that other Bloom, Harold. These guys know their stuff. They aren't perfect though and I do disagree with some of their finer points. Both would benefit from having another intelligence in the room when they begin because like many professors they tend to pontificate(which leads to some people misunderstanding them) when another tone would perhaps better suit their ends. Dialogue after all is the Greek way, a dialogue about education by these two like minds would have been interesting. Certainly conservative(in the academic sense)does not mean that there is no room for discussion nor does it imply conservative politically, it just indicates the style of discussion that will occur, a tradition bound one. I have found,perhaps ironically, that a conservative academic often is the more open minded one and (with the ultimate end being learning, not indoctrination) will entertain alternative points of view in conversation more readily than the liberal academic who often adheres rather stringently to a rather narrow agenda and point of view(the liberation of one group or another)and so it is not so much learning that is taking place but something very much resembling a political point being made.	2002-01-18
US	45344448	R2B2O56R5XJTAG	0679750541	362948743	Culture and Imperialism	Books	3	43	73	N	N	Austen, Conrad, Yeats, Camus....the political story	Culture and Imperialism deals with western literature primarily. That and an Italian opera. Austen, Conrad, Yeats, Camus are each given considerable attention as especially pertinent examples of how culture has either collaborated with or attempted to counteract the influence of colonialism. Austen is the least obvious choice and perhaps the least satisfying part of the book. To many the debate about colonialism was initiated(at least in literature)with the publication of Heart of Darkness. That work has been ably analyzed by many Conrad scholars, Said does not really challenge existing scholarship but he expresses his dissappointment that Conrad did not seem capable of imagining a political alternative to colonialism. I think it is important to point out that there were Englishman at the time of the writing of Heart of Darkness that were politically outspoken against colonialism (Roger Casement)as well as opponents to colonialism as far back as 1787(Edmund Burke). My point being that Conrad was a novelist and he is describing the physical realities of colonialism that he saw firsthand and he obviously saw it as a horrendous and inhumane affair. Others were more suited than he to make the case against colonialism in the courts. Conrad made his case in a book.<br />Said examines Yeats in the context of Irelands national struggle for independence. Yeats explored Irelands past and integrated its particularly Irish mythology into his poems. By doing so he reconnected Ireland to its own past and a sense of its own identity. This is perhaps one of the more satisfying sections of the book illustrating plainly that one of the ways an empire maintains control over a colony is by divorcing it form its own past and history.<br />Camus was a figure at odds with his times. Most of his contemporaries disagreed with him about Algeria.  He imagined an Algeria that would be ruled jointly by both the French and the Algerians which is not too surprising given the fact that Camus was himself a Frenchmen who spent his childhood in Algeria.  I think Camus is a fascinating and perhaps conflicted figure and perhaps a better author(where conflict does not always have to be resolved) than political thinker. He wanted compromise and consolodation for both the nation and himself. Said however doesn't approach Camus in this way, in fact, he doesn't seem sympathetic at all with the autobiographic element in Camus' work which he finds to have anti-Arab elements in it. I don't agree with that. He grew up poor and fatherless and he loved the North African landscape to which he remained attached his whole life.  His sympathies were with the poor Bedouins and he did not trust either the communist left nor the nationalist movements of the right.  Any interpretation of Camus' work which focuses exculsively on the political is going to be a narrow one and discount all those unresolved elements that make his work so confounding and so fascinating.<br /> The figures discussed here are all interesting but Saids approach which focuses exculsively on extracting the political import of each author is not in my opinion the best possible approach for these authors. Literary work is never reducible to a few political principles & polotics in literary works is never without ambiguity and irony. Which means extracting a discernable political postion from a complex work is not really possible nor really to be desired. Art asks questions which is what Said is good at too. I think Said wants art to be more specifically political than it often is so his natural tendency is to make as much as he can out of whatever evidence he finds and  build arguments by overloading what is sometimes pretty scant evidence with disproportionate significance. As a result you get lopsided views of these authors. So if you want a balanced assessment of any of these authors Said is not your man and this is not your book.lf a Frenchmen who spent his childhood in Algeria.   I think Camus is a fascinating and perhaps conflicted figure and perhaps a better author(where conflict does not always have to be resolved) than political thinker. He wanted compromise and consolodation for both the nation and himself. Said however doesn't approach Camus in this way, in fact, he doesn't seem sympathetic at all with the autobiographic element in Camus' work which he finds to have anti-Arab elements in it. I don't agree with that. He grew up poor and fatherless and he loved the North African landscape to which he remained attached his whole life.  His sympathies were with the poor Bedouins and he did not trust either the communist left nor the nationalist movements of the right.  Any interpretation of Camus' work which focuses exculsively on the political is going to be a narrow one and discount all those unresolved elements that make his work so confounding and so fascinating. <BR> The figures discussed here are all interesting but Saids approach which focuses exculsively on extracting the political import of each author is not in my opinion the best possible approach for these authors. Literary work is never reducible to a few political principles & polotics in literary works is never without ambiguity and irony. Which means extracting a discernable political postion from a complex work is not really possible nor really to be desired. Art asks questions which is what Said is good at too. I think Said wants art to be more specifically political than it often is so his natural tendency is to make as much as he can out of whatever evidence he finds and  build arguments by overloading what is sometimes pretty scant evidence with disproportionate significance. As a result you get lopsided views of these authors. So if you want a balanced assessment of any of these authors Said is not your man and this is not your book.	2002-01-14
US	45344448	R21LFYUTHWD4Q0	0525938966	596916273	For Keeps: 30 Years at the Movies	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The Pale Muse with the discerning eye and the sharp tongue	Pauline Kael and movie criticism was at its height when American and foreign movies were at their height. The two go hand in hand. The high quality of the movies of the time made for inspired debate. But even given the fortunate circumstance to be writing at such a time she still stands out because she brings to her criticism not just an appreciation of film but an appreciation of art in all its forms. She is one of the few critics who can discuss Lolita or Women in Love or Sheltering Sky or Unbearable Lightness of Being as both literary work and film. She never really limits herself to being an expert on film, she always seems to be coming from some other expertise (like literature) and so she brings an authority and perhaps legitamacy to film criticism by talking about films in a way usually reserved for books. She believes more than anything else in the potential for film to be great, perhaps as great as literature, and I think her reviews are attempts to do her part in lifting the art form. Her belief in Bertolucci as one of films geniuses for instance is undiminished by the fact that she doesn't seem to like many of his films(Last Tango excepted). She is at her best when reviewing a great film like Altman's McCabe and Mrs. Miller, or Truffaut's Story of Adele H. at which time one can only sit back and listen as she is nothing short of inspired, ecstastic, and it is infectious. It is dissappointing that film never achieved the status she had in mind for it and she was dissappointed at the direction the art form went. her later reviews are still good but really the spark was gone by 75 or 76. She presided over what might be films greatest period(67-75). While the great directors were producing their best work she was the one who understood them first, so she will always be equated with that period, not merely a critic but a champion of an art form.	2002-01-12
US	45344448	R2NA7BFHV40H59	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	2	3	N	N	modalities of the visible	Jorge Luis Borges once thanked Joyce and Picasso in the introduction of one of his books. It was a joke. Borges obviously felt both names had been evoked so many times as to make the mere mention of either of them seem ponderous. I kind of agree with that assessment.<br />Joyce certainly has received top billing by the academy and if your impression of him is, well, reverent, you are in good company. I read Ulysses first because I wanted to know this huge book which everyone talked about with such admiration and then I read it again in college in a Joyce seminar.  I have to say the seminar was enjoyable but not altogether because of the author chosen. I think we students and teacher felt like we were conquering a mountain and were proud of ourselves every step of the way. In memory the actual book does not loom very large in the way other great works do nor do I feel much affection for it. The characters and plot are implanted in my brain but rarely do they move about nor do scenes get replayed in my imagination. Perhaps Joyce's work was so complete that it didn't leave much room for any other imagination to go to work on it so Ulysses never became one of my favorites. I don't suppose I can wholeheartedly recommend the book given my less than enthusiastic feeling about it. In fact I think I learned a lot more from other books by less revered authors.  Joyce had talent to spare but I think for me he just loads Ulysses with too many apparently ordinary though symbolic so very literary things and the result is that I am not inspired by his art but rather put off by the excessive weight and meaning the work aquires as one works ones way through.  So much has been said about the work that it almost comes to the reader with a feeling of having been pre-interpreted for you. Joyce I think contributes to this reaction because he left little room for &quot;interpretations&quot; of his work, its all layed out for you and there really is no latitude for an individual encounter with it. You either submit to its spell or you don't. Perhaps the net result is that in this case more turns out to be less. It can't be penalized for being too much of a good thing so five stars despite all just said.<br />Some have mentioned that this book benefits from being read out loud. Perhaps that is the Catholic interpretation of this very Catholic author. Ulysses as incantation. That approach does have its advantages with this book. There is available a recording of Joyce himself reading excerpts from Ulysses and Finnegans Wake(Anna Plurabelle). I've heard it and it is like hearing a fairy tale written by the unconscious for adults. His voice is musical and he reads like he is summoning the spirit.ith it. You either submit to its spell or you don't. Perhaps the net result is that in this case more turns out to be less. It can't be penalized for being too much of a good thing so five stars despite all just said.<BR>Some have mentioned that this book benefits from being read out loud. Perhaps that is the Catholic interpretation of this very Catholic author. Ulysses as incantation. That approach does have its advantages with this book. There is available a recording of Joyce himself reading excerpts from Ulysses and Finnegans Wake(Anna Plurabelle). I've heard it and it is like hearing a fairy tale written by the unconscious for adults. His voice is musical and he reads like he is summoning the spirit.	2002-01-10
US	45344448	R25RIPPPXPQ4E4	081121270X	273449209	Requiem: A Hallucination	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Life is a dream	The lightness of Tabucchi's Requiem makes it a very easy book to like. It helps to be at least a little bit familiar with the Portugese poet and author Fernando Pessoa who is the figure Tabucchi is to meet. The novella is very short (107 pages but lots of chapters so lots of white space and big print) and really more on the amusing than philosophical side. The little conversations read like little asides but soon one realizes that is what the book is, a little aside. There are some amusing references made about modern literature that could very well apply to the book we are reading and also a very interesting reference to a story written that later came true(a kind of mini meditation on how fact and fiction mimic each other or follow the same laws, the same could be said for life and dreams) but the book purposely stays on the surface of things. Food is the real center of the book. That is the most substantial and sustaining ritual at the heart of life, at least that apsect of life that is most real it seems to Tabucchi. So the books pages pass, each meeting a chance for conversations and most of the conversations are just small talk. Kind of like life. It is clear the events are all dreamed and so Tabucchi is free to talk to both friends and relations living and dead. But they say the same kinds of things to each other in the dream world that they did in real life. And the dream world is little different than the real world. That is the charm of the book. Life is a dream, so eat.	2001-12-08
US	45344448	RF7DIZ9YM7FXJ	081121270X	273449209	Requiem: A Hallucination	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Life is a dream	The lightness of Tabucchi's Requiem makes it a very easy book to like. It helps to be at least a little bit familiar with the Portugese poet and author Fernando Pessoa who is the figure Tabucchi is to meet. The novella is very short (107 pages but lots of chapters so lots of white space and big print) and really more on the amusing than philosophical side. The little conversations read like little asides but soon one realizes that is what the book is, a little aside. There are some amusing references made about modern literature that could very well apply to the book we are reading and also a very interesting reference to a story written that later came true(a kind of mini meditation on how fact and fiction mimic each other or follow the same laws, the same could be said for life and dreams) but the book purposely stays on the surface of things. Food is the real center of the book. That is the most substantial and sustaining ritual at the heart of life, at least that apsect of life that is most real it seems to Tabucchi. So the books pages pass, each meeting a chance for conversations and most of the conversations are just small talk. Kind of like life. It is clear the events are all dreamed and so Tabucchi is free to talk to both friends and relations living and dead. But they say the same kinds of things to each other in the dream world that they did in real life. And the dream world is little different than the real world. That is the charm of the book. Life is a dream, so eat.	2001-12-08
US	45344448	R25XLT3OHI1V7Z	0811211118	122723585	Little Misunderstandings of No Importance (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Little Ambiguities	Tabucchi writes both novellas and short story collections. He's a minimalist but one who chooses his few words well. His writing seems slight at first and his plots almost nonexistent but there is a momentum that builds as you get to know him from story to story, his deceptively simple words and stories are like queries as to what the nature of life might be. This collection is just eleven short(10 pgs each) attempts to show how life might occur .  The first story ,&quot;Little Misunderstandings...&quot;is about a group of friends. Each fall into roles chosen for them by the accidents of circumstance and all seem helpless to be able to participate in their lives except as observers who find themselves mildly amusing.  &quot;Waiting for Winter&quot; is a story Tabucchi himself says he wishes Henry James would have written. As Tabucchi tells it we see the widow of a great man of letters going through the motions of mourning. But there is at stories end a twist. James would have filled in the story with sufficient nuance and detail to give the reader a clear picture of a particular psychology and at least give us as readers a chance at understanding a characters motive for doing a certain thing. Tabucchi only gives you the barest amont of information. The last event of the story therefore remains an inexplicable one, the story remains an unsolved ambiguity. Tabucchi is interested in the interior lives of his characters but everything that happens there remains unclear, not really describable except in the most cursory way. His characters do not have psychologies in the traditional sense, &quot;psychology&quot; implies certain identifiable attributes and a certain consistency of character. The strongest thing a Tabucchi character has is perhaps a vague and growing suspicion or a never quite articulated emotion. &quot;Things&quot; have special importance in these stories or sometimes seem to because they seem to have a more stable existence than the characters themselves.  In &quot;The Riddle&quot;  an automobile that may have belonged to Proust is only one uncertainty in a story where nothing is certain, the car is the dominant image of the story, it is the central thing which draws our attention, it seems to tie the various aspects of the story together.  Everything about the unlikely events related in the story is shady and shadowy and perhaps nothing more than a dream. Only the car seems to hold some significant meaning, carry some symbolic weight but ....but it doesn't. Its just a riddle after all.<br />Tabucchi's point in these stories is that the only way to make sense of ambiguous reality is to simplify it for ourselves. So the story crafting process for him is a playful one. The reader may want a solution or think he is supposed to look for one but there is not necessarily one there to be found. Not all the stories work in the same way. He has more than one tactic. Some are more conventional and some more fantastic. But all refuse to simplify, and so remain in the end ambiguities or complex puzzles for which there are no solutions.<br />An intriguing aesthetic.<br /> Tabucchi fits in with Kafka and Nabokov and Borges and Cortazar &amp; Calvino, like them he could be called a &quot;fabulist&quot;, and fables are powerful because they remain ambiguous like parables or myths.  Tabucchi's touch however is particularly appealing because of its lightness. He seems at times to revel in the ambiguities he describes, perhaps in the way a surrealist revels in the anarchy of a  particularly unusual dream..  In &quot;The Riddle&quot;  an automobile that may have belonged to Proust is only one uncertainty in a story where nothing is certain, the car is the dominant image of the story, it is the central thing which draws our attention, it seems to tie the various aspects of the story together.  Everything about the unlikely events related in the story is shady and shadowy and perhaps nothing more than a dream. Only the car seems to hold some significant meaning, carry some symbolic weight but ....but it doesn't. Its just a riddle after all. <BR>Tabucchi's point in these stories is that the only way to make sense of ambiguous reality is to simplify it for ourselves. So the story crafting process for him is a playful one. The reader may want a solution or think he is supposed to look for one but there is not necessarily one there to be found. Not all the stories work in the same way. He has more than one tactic. Some are more conventional and some more fantastic. But all refuse to simplify, and so remain in the end ambiguities or complex puzzles for which there are no solutions.<BR>An intriguing aesthetic. <br /> Tabucchi fits in with Kafka and Nabokov and Borges and Cortazar &amp; Calvino, like them he could be called a &quot;fabulist&quot;, and fables are powerful because they remain ambiguous like parables or myths.  Tabucchi's touch however is particularly appealing because of its lightness. He seems at times to revel in the ambiguities he describes, perhaps in the way a surrealist revels in the anarchy of a  particularly unusual dream.	2001-12-02
US	45344448	REUF7DDBV8I2M	0140180346	547877057	The Rescue: A Romance of the Shallows (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Lingards Dilemna	The familiar Conrad hero Captain Tom Lingard(Outcast of the Islands) comes to the rescue of an English pleasure yacht that has foundered in the shallows just as war is about to break out between Malay tribes.  Tom has war supplies including gunpowder stored in his own boat that has been turned into a fort and Tom's decisions will greatly effect the outcome of the war. Meanwhile though there is the English problem which Tom sees as being just that until he spies on board a lovely woman. Thats enough to distract our hero from his more pressing war time duties. Romantic Tom recalls Lord Jim and is in fact Jims brother, but he  is not as complex or as troubled as Jim was so this is more a tale of pure adventure. External events take precedence over internal conflicts and so the adventure can be enjoyed for just that. Not one of Conrads most important works but still it exerts a lot of appeal. Anything by the best writer ever of sea and island tales is worth my time.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	R5RPP720ZIGNI	0460874780	70046812	Victory Conrad (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Land of Ones Own	Conrad tells Heyst's story in stages, not revealing all at once, and he is the most intriguing part of the book so it is a very clever technique for until the end our picture of him remains incomplete. That dimension of the novel is like a mystery and a good one. Heyst has chosen a life of solitude and it is slowly revealed that he has a very complex reason for doing so. The love story is a little weak though. You kind of have to look the other way when Heyst and his beloved Lena have their moments, other than that there is much to admire about this book and a very exciting finale. Conrad's own complex upbringing involved exile from his parents homeland Russia. He was raised in Poland but his father remained politically active even in exile and was eventually brought to ruin for it. The instability of being raised in such a home had a corrosive effect on the would be authors sense of his own identity. Many of Conrads books have biographical elements in them but this one is even closer to home than the earlier books were. Conrad combined in his person two distinct selves, a man of action(sea captain) and a man of inaction, or an observer(writer). In Victory one sees him trying to balance these two opposing tendencies in his own character.  Heyst has chosen inaction but that choice it soon becomes clear is not his alone to make. The world and its other inhabitants also have a say in that. Heyst may not want to be involved in the world but just by existing he is already involved. He may be able to avoid the world for a time but eventually the world  finds everyone. For Heyst the world finds him through the character of Lena.  That is the Victory of the novel. Though that meeting puts Heyst in touch with the world for the first time it also puts him in contact with some of the worlds more unsavory aspects.  This novel is not one of Conrads crowning achievements but it is the best one he wrote in his latter period. It was originally published in 1915 and he feared the title during a time of war may be misleading but he kept it anyway. It does seem appropriate. Be sure to get a copy with the 'authors note' in which Conrad tells of his glimpse of a girl in a cafe who suggested to his imagination the character of Lena.tle during a time of war may be misleading but he kept it anyway. It does seem appropriate. Be sure to get a copy with the 'authors note' in which Conrad tells of his glimpse of a girl in a cafe who suggested to his imagination the character of Lena.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	RLZNLTO0DE6H2	1853262978	513722041	ALMAYER'S FOLLY (Wordsworth Collection)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Family Palm Tree	Almayer's tragedy is that he has become mired in an enterprise which has not paid off. His supply station just doesn't make him rich as he had hoped. In the meantime he has taken a wife, a Malay, and they have a daughter. So Almayer is mired in Malaysia in more ways than one. Almayer dreams of Europe but it is unlikely he will ever return. His fate is to rot in the tropics. Conrads tale of a hopeless colonial exploiter is interesting for its unsentimental, unidealized view of the whole colonial enterprise. It is seen as being a losing situation for both sides. Both cultures suffer. The most tragic figures are those whose heritage is divided between both cultures, exploiter and exploited. (This is something this years Nobel Laureate 2001 V.S. Naipaul, who is often compared to Conrad, writes about.) Conrads book has an appealing exotic side to it as well though. The descriptive writing of the winding rivers and foliage and the entire tropical setting is tempting as it attracts interesting types and seems to offer a life of indolence and easy riches and forbidden pleasures but of course there is a backlash. The plot itself is a winding river with many turns. Not a perfect book but an interesting book to read after having read many of Conrads later books. Conrad in his autobiographical A Personal Record describes his meeting with the character who inspired the fictive Almayer as being the beginning of his writing career. The whole colonial enterprise seemed to be embodied in the attitude and fate of that one isolated figure for him.  I guess for that reason we can thank Almayer for existing.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	R1C0Q7LLMNHTAJ	0060931914	126399491	Demian (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Egg from which all of Hesse's books were born	Hesse's book is about not being blindly part of the majority at a time when many began to think the majority was perhaps not always right. After all it was blind following that allowed something as atrocious as WW1 to happen. But Hesse shows that the forces that shape external events are the same forces that exist within us, but it is up to us as individuals to deal with them in our own way. Jung would call this process individuation. Hesse as novelist shows this process of becoming an individual with his character Emil. Emil is probably on the road to becoming just another member of the middle class when he meets Demian. Demian is an unsettling presence to Emil but also an attractive one. Their friendship leads Emil down a very interesting path, one of self discovery. Demian, the character, to me represents art, and philosophy and religion and all things which inspire man to resist the status quos influence and strike out on his own. In great part the process by which Emil discovers himself is an internal one so the reality in the book often feels skewed as things described are highly subjective. I remember Demians mother when I think of this book because she is one of the first bohemian women I ever encountered in a book. Very attractive and very smart and aware and surrounded by art. She is like an Indian goddess in my memory. In the early days of the twentieth century the east was still a great mystery to the west and so figures like Freud and Jung as well as authors like Hesse attributed to the east the lesser understood aspects of our western natures. Later Hesse books deal with the east more specifically as a journey into those lesser understood areas of ouselves but already in Demian the cosmology is an earthier one than the one traditionally described as western. There are images of destruction and creation and Hesse attempts to synthesize these great forces into an integrated whole in the character of Emil. As always though in Hesse the journey is an ongoing one and his message is not to dictate to you the course your own journey should take, just that you should take one.ng one and his message is not to dictate to you the course your own journey should take, just that you should take one.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	R3DW0NZLONP8JO	9997407962	701324933	Arrow of Gold	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Burnished Gold of Youth	After the masterpieces had all been written Conrad began writing a purer kind of adventure story. These late books are interesting and though not masterpieces themselves there is something in each one that makes them well worth your while. The young man in Arrow of Gold has fallen under the allure of old Europe in the form of the lovely Spaniard Dona Rita (Conrads most complete and most attractive portrait of a woman) and finds himself involved in  her schemes to smuggle guns to her countrymen from Marseilles. High adventure ensues, including a breathtaking boat chase, but every cause and every ideal is corruptible and Conrad with this book contrasts the heady ideals of youth with worldly experience and wisdom. In these last books(Rescue, Arrow of Gold, Rover) it feels as though Conrad felt he had already tackled his great themes so there is a calm in the writing of them that is very pleasing and one imagines he is enjoying the writing of them in his retired captains easy chair as much as we enjoy the reading of them. The arrow is a gold pin, a rich symbol, the fate of which must be left unknown to potential readers. The historical setting of 1870's Marseilles is one Conrad knew well as that is the port from which he set off to sea for the first time and the gun running episode as well as the boat(especially the boat)Conrad spoke of with great fondness in his memoirs.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	RFKBGRSI97YXJ	0460877739	30707208	Outcast of the Islands (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	...the second white mans grave in Sambir	&quot;I know the white man...in many lands have I seen them, always the slaves of their desires...&quot;<br />This is Conrads second book and like his first it deals with the colonial enterprise but in this book white men are their own worst enemies. The native Malay characters are given more in the way of identity in this book and they are seen as having complex views. There is intrigue in this book as white men from different nations try to assert their dominance in the region but the Malays too have a plan and that is to take advantage of the whites aggressive and competitive natures and set them against each other. Great plot. But Conrad also gives you each characters story and each character is always more interesting than whatever role they are playing in the overall plot. One of the most attractive and elaborated themes in this book is the one of mans place in nature and mans own nature. The beauty of the tropical locale is made even more attractive and alluring by the women who walk through the foliage like &quot;apparitions&quot; veiled in &quot;sunlight and shadow&quot;.  Conrad describes the forests, the light in the tree tops, and the shadows on the forest floor and all nature is seen as metaphor for mans own dualities and incongruites. A much matured writer from Almayers Folly. The plot is simpler than Almayer was but thats good. The simpler plot allows Conrad more latitude to deal with the individual characteristics and that is certainly one of Conrads strengths. He sometimes overdoes it with the repeated use of words like inscrutable and the always heavy darkness, and his overall view of man seems dim, as man in his eyes is an only partially lit(enlightened) being. To Conrad man remains a lost creature for the most part who just by chance or luck or ill omen gets caught up in events he cannot fully comprehend. A limited resource man may be but while reading it is hard not to see it his way. The summing up scene at the end of the book with a drunken Almayer(who also appeared in Conrads  first book, the Almayer of Almayers Folly) relating the now long passed events of the book to a traveling and equally drunk botanist is an excellent closing comment on the continued folly that is the colonial enterprise and man in general.yer(who also appeared in Conrads  first book, the Almayer of Almayers Folly) relating the now long passed events of the book to a traveling and equally drunk botanist is an excellent closing comment on the continued folly that is the colonial enterprise and man in general.	2001-11-11
US	45344448	R2Z2HOY5FVSIVM	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	5	24	25	N	N	An Unseen Enemy	An overwhelming feeling of meaninglessness is the enemy in all of Camus' work. The Plague is a parable about living with this spiritual dilemna which puzzles and threatens existence. But it can be read on a number of levels at the same time. You can read it as symbolic of Nazi occupation of France, or French occupation of Algeria, or any such condition where men feel hopeless in the face of historic events, time, the universe. Camus' characters are often close to surrender or indifference but some basic human need urges them on and makes them continue despite awareness that there is little chance of success.  Camus loved the pure earth best of all and his scenes which place a man alone looking at the sea for instance have an instinctual feel that sets him apart from someone like the exclusively cerebral Sartre. It is a book which changes each time you read it. What is happening in the world at the time you are reading it affects your interpretation of what this book is saying. Parables are powerful because they work on you in ways that are not always specific, like myth. They feel real or they don't. This book captures the feeling that existence is an ongoing struggle against(and perhaps this is part of the book power and appeal)an ultimately unnamable and unidentifiable foe.	2001-11-10
US	45344448	R2FSPI0VZJJ6T	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Order....disrupted by one	The North African sun flashing off an Arab knife. The whole book has the feeling of being a delirium though a lucid minded one, in the same way Kafkas stories combined those two (usually) inconsistent qualities. The main character seems overwhelmed by the world. He is a kind of victim of circumstance. The circumstance of being on the beach when the blade flashed in the sun which he felt threatened by and perhaps misinterpreted but also the circumstance of living in a world that makes no sense to him. Like Kafka before him Camus uses remarkable experiences to show the ambiguous nature of existence on every level. The courts themselves are senseless, arbitrarily handing out judgements with no real understanding of what occured either on the beach or in the lead characters head. The courts processes do not lead to understanding, that is not even their goal in this book. Camus shows that it is more important for civilization to retain a certain semblance of order in the face of chaos than to really offer a true order based on any true understanding. A brilliant book. The stars may look down indifferently on what we do here on earth but that fact and this book just make you realize how tricky and important a thing order, and justice can be. Lacking any absolutes to go by man exists in a world he can only partially comprehend. It is hard enough to comprehend who we are and doubly difficult, if not impossible, to comprehend another human . All systems of knowing and judging are flawed. Though Camus brilliantly shows society trying to deny this fact. Society persecutes, villifies, what it doesn't understand. All in the name of order.	2001-11-10
US	45344448	R12C0RS9PNTPDA	0880015012	541212810	A Distant Episode	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Tales of Those Away From Home	Bowles likes to place his characters in situations where all the usual comforts have been removed. So his locations are remote ones. South America and North Africa are two of his favorite.  The characters in these stories are usually sensitive types and so are already fragile and impressionble but in the unusual settings those characterictics are even more evident and make them especially vulnerable. Bowles characters are travelers set against native cultures and in such conditions the traveler is always at a disadvantage because he has left behind those things which have served to stabilize his life. The traveler is merely  adrift in the world, while the natives of the visited region have remained rooted to a very old culture. America itself is a very young culture, a colonial culture, and the authors that Bowles admired were those early colonial writers like Poe. Bowles in a way continues with Poe's themes of Americans lost in the untamed wilderness of themselves. But also in Bowles writing one can feel the influence of writers he was contemporary with like Camus, who also experienced colonialism as he was raised in North Africa under French rule. There is violence in Bowles work of many kinds but always along with the violence is some discovery about either an individual or about the nature of the world in general or both as the violent act often serves to strip away a characters long held illusions which kept a certain version of the world in place and reveal a more primitive more vital world beneath. The stories by and large take place in the mind of the traveling westerner, though one story is told through the eyes of an Arab. You can get a complete collection of Bowles stories for about twice the price but this collection contains all the stories he is known for including the title story and Delicate Prey, his two most famous.But there are at least a dozen stories here which once read will never be forgotten.	2001-11-09
US	45344448	R2649LLA555S0F	0066212731	223938744	The Stories of Paul Bowles	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Infinite sadness in infinite places	There are many reasons to read Paul Bowles. One is for the strange atmospheres he describes, another is for the fragile, delicate and easily dissembled egos of his protaganists. A typical Bowles story introduces you to all of these elements at once, one playing or preying on the other. In these stories we see the unraveling of identity after identity and the impression that builds as one moves from one story to another is that there is nothing that can save this from happening to the unprotected or unsheltered westerner whose identity structure disintegrates so easily when divorced from the western setting it is so reliant on. This pattern is also evident in his famous novel Sheltering Sky, a document of one man seeking dissolution in the desert, the fact that he is with a wife and a friend only underline his inability to desire anything, he simply seeks to journey away from everything. In Bowles stories (which take place in both South American and North African settings) the westerner, often an American, is seen as an unwanted invader by the natives of the visited region. The anti-colonial sentiment is there in these stories but Bowles' westerners seem to be the only ones unaware of it. But that is just one aspect of these stories, each story also has at least one other unsavory aspect as well(murder, incest, rape, drugs). The natives of Bowles foreign locales are usually not given much in the way of individual identities, it is the westerners who are singled out for study, the stories take place in their minds and thought processes. The foreign locales serve merely as backdrops, though very atmospheric writing makes those backdrops part of these stories appeal. Bowles' westerners are all met at a time in their lives when they are at a breaking point(Echo)or seeking departure from the past(Pages From Cold Point), or a spouse (Call at Corazon). We see a missionary in one story slowly give up hope of ever communicating to the natives he wishes to convert, in fact he is more changed by the natives than they are by him(Pastor Dowe at Tacate). In another a photographer with insomnia, a very common ailment in these stories, finds himself responding in some strange way to his surroundings, he begins to let his surroundings speak to some deeper instinctual part of him, and he slowly gives over his old identity to it, but letting his gaurd down has only made him less careful and more vulnerable to those who see him as one who is somewhere he does not belong(Tapiama)and that can never lead to any good especially not in a Bowles story. These stories will remind readers more of Poe, a favorite of Bowles, than any of the colonial or postcolonial authors because the element in his fiction that stands out most is the instability of western identity which makes it ripe for corruption. These characters are not so much seeking to arrive somewhere as escape from whence they came so really the places these sometimes horrific dramas occur in are less important than the people to whom these horrors occur. Bowles did spend his entire writing career in North Africa and South America so the stories are rich with details but they remain settings merely, however elaborate.is more changed by the natives than they are by him(Pastor Dowe at Tacate). In another a photographer with insomnia, a very common ailment in these stories, finds himself responding in some strange way to his surroundings, he begins to let his surroundings speak to some deeper instinctual part of him, and he slowly gives over his old identity to it, but letting his gaurd down has only made him less careful and more vulnerable to those who see him as one who is somewhere he does not belong(Tapiama)and that can never lead to any good especially not in a Bowles story. These stories will remind readers more of Poe, a favorite of Bowles, than any of the colonial or postcolonial authors because the element in his fiction that stands out most is the instability of western identity which makes it ripe for corruption. These characters are not so much seeking to arrive somewhere as escape from whence they came so really the places these sometimes horrific dramas occur in are less important than the people to whom these horrors occur. Bowles did spend his entire writing career in North Africa and South America so the stories are rich with details but they remain settings merely, however elaborate.	2001-10-25
US	45344448	R1DCZLLLBFCY8L	0394700864	438309757	The Transposed Heads: A Legend of India	Books	5	7	8	N	N	In the heart and in the head	Thomas Mann's works are always full of dichotomies of various kinds: feeling vs intellect, freedom vs authority, immorality(decadence) vs morality(respectability), artistic or religious pursuits vs participation in everyday life. So it is not surprising that he wrote a book about two people who represent opposite ways of living. One character lives by the dictates of the reasoning head, the other by the dictates of the sensual body. In Mann's mystical India a wonderful accident allows for an interesting experiment. Don't want to give too much away for the fun is in not knowing exactly what happens. Suffice it to say that this is a unique kind of book of novella length, a form Mann was especially competent with.  In a way this is Mann's Siddhartha though one informed with many dualites, including the east/ west one.  This book attempts to unify all those oppositions once and for all but that is no easy task. This book has humor and humanity and that magic that only the simplest fables have, once you read it you will never forget it.	2001-10-24
US	45344448	RJY8J71BFV9O2	0679727221	916996744	The Defense	Books	5	12	18	N	N	Luzhin to White Square	This early Nabokov book was written during his Kafka influenced phase. Also in this group I would put Invitation To a Beheading. I described this book to a group of friends one day as &quot;a book about a chess master who slowly loses his identity to the game until the final page when he imagines the open bathroom window is one of the white spaces on the chess board and it is his move.&quot; Its not a novel for everyone but if you like Kafka and his peculiar worlds this will appeal to you. Also recommended to the perhaps new to Nabokov reader are his short stories, especially one called &quot;Cloud, Castle Lake&quot; written in 1937 about a sensitive youth Vasili who does not much care for the world the Nazis are trying to create and decides he does not have &quot;the strength to belong to mankind any longer.&quot; And so Nabokov the author says,&quot;Of course, I let him go.&quot; Nabokov's fictions are strange but appealing. Using chess as an analogy for life in the Defense Nabokov creates a claustrophobic environment as there are only so many possible moves and that number is diminished with each move.  The Defense's Luzhin is a very sensitive youth like Vasily in the short story and like so many of Nabokov's creations they are trapped in a world of someone elses devising, trying to get out. Like Kafka's heroes Nabokov's early heroes are victims of something too big for them to come to grips with. A sad theme with perhaps very few solutions but even in the trap very interesting human qualities abound.	2001-10-23
US	45344448	RIWRTWFC3DTKV	0872860027	847541898	A Hundred Camels in the Courtyard	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Bowles in altered states	From the preface: &quot;Moroccan kif-smokers like to speak of &quot;two worlds&quot;,the one ruled by inexorable natural laws, and the other, the kif world,in which each person perceives &quot;reality&quot; according to his own essence, the state of consciousness in which the elements of the physical universe are automatically rearranged by cannabis to suit the requirements of the individual.&quot;-Paul Bowles<br />Bowles immersion into the culture of North Africa has produced some of the most interesting literature. This scant collection of four stories is an attractive little book of inconsequential but readable tales. Just as Bowles studied and collected Moroccan music as a key into the North African mindset so here he studies kif as another kind of key, one that gives him direct access into the North African subconscious. Bowles sets forth in the introduction that these tales are put together making use of associations made while he was under the kif influence.  ....the best parts to my ears are the hermetic sayings overheard by kif smokers. &quot;The eye wants to sleep but the head is no mattress&quot;, &quot;The earth trembles and the sky is afraid, and the two eyes are not brothers&quot;, &quot;A pipe of kif before breakfast gives a man the strength of one hundred camels in the courtyard&quot;.<br />The folk simplicity of these tales is very appealing. Later Bowles will cover this terrain again when he works with Mohammed Mrabet transcripting that Moroccans oral tales. An excellent book by Mrabet/Bowles is M'Hashish(which means full of hashish).  Happy happy reading.	2001-10-23
US	45344448	R23CQVEAXCGON9	0688071139	220018067	An Artificial Wilderness: Essays on 20Th-Century Literature	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent source for overlooked European Greats	This is an excellent book of essays on European writers. Birkerts chooses from the lesser known authors to write at length about so some of these authors you will have heard of, some not. The essay on the early French modernist poet and novelist Blaise Cendrars is especially good as it gives an excellent overview of virtually all of this authors mostly neglected work, including the autobiographical works.  Also the Robert Musil essay is particularly good. What is appealing about Birkerts approach is that he has read everything by the authors he writes about and so the essays are generous with information and insight and give you a general idea of an author and his work. Birkerts is a reader who worked in a bookshop for many years and his love of books and particular authors shows in his enthusiastic albeit sound appraisals so this is an excellent source for readers always on the lookout for a good tip . This book was an award winner and I think it is far better than his later American Energies which is a shallower effort. He really excavates these Europeans though. Yourcenar&amp; Tournier essays also very good. Others as well.	2001-10-23
US	45344448	R93QKJPOWBTN3	0679727256	952258128	The Gift	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Hail Colorfully Winged Muse!	Nabokov is very funny(in case you didn't already know that) and no matter what his subject matter the humor comes through. That is one of the gifts here, the other more obvious one is  literature, specifically Russian literature, the tradition of which is a gift the Russian born Nabokov received and in this book he gives you his version of that tradition in brief and since this book would be the last book he wrote in Russian one assumes he is paying a quite deliberate homage to his homelands men of letters. But Nabokov is never serious for long and the laughs are always right around the corner or on the next page.  This book is also about lead character Fyodor's gift which is his talent and that talent appears in wonderful ways all through the narrative. This was written in Nabokov's middle period while he lived in Berlin,Germany writing in a small hotel room with family and those circumstances just makes this all the more incredible because it is a very beautiful book. Perhaps Nabokov was wondering what he would do with his gift at this most uncertain pre-WWII moment in his life. His great books were still to come but this book is his first to show that he is no ordinary artist and it at least equals if not surpasses the later books in regards to appeal because it is so personal, or at least as personal as Nabokov gets.  You know you are in the hands of a master when you suddenly realize the chapter you are reading is a dream even though it is written in a way that does not immediately give that  away and so you share the dreamers belief that the dreamed moment is real(what is a Russian novel without a dream). But again Nabokovs humor comes into play as the clue that this is in fact a dream is only subtley inserted into the chapter.  After early disruptions and tragedy(his father was assasinated by Russian police)Nabokov led a charmed life, perhaps willed it to be so, and this book is marked with that charm and his word magicians wit which were to be his life sustaining strengths and his father from whom he received the precious gift seems to benevolently haunt the margins of these farewell to Russia pages. And butterfly hunting is one of the more beautiful ways to describe the artists pursuit.ining strengths and his father from whom he received the precious gift seems to benevolently haunt the margins of these farewell to Russia pages. And butterfly hunting is one of the more beautiful ways to describe the artists pursuit.	2001-10-23
US	45344448	R1US3TUSOS6CVO	0880010436	169118971	Their Heads Are Green and Their Hands Are Blue	Books	5	32	33	N	N	In Search of Jumblies	If you are wondering about that title, it's an Edward Lear Lyric:<br />  Far and few, far and few,<br />  Are the lands where the Jumblies live;<br />  Their heads are green and their hands are blue,<br />  And they went to sea in a Sieve.<br />This is a collection of eight travel essays all written in the 1950's. Bowles' sets down quite simply why he travels, &quot;Each time I go to a place I have not seen before, I hope it will be as different as possible from the places I already know.&quot; And it is not different landscapes(which alone are of &quot;insufficient interest&quot;) he seeks but different peoples, &quot;North Africa without its tribes, inhabited by, let us say, the Swiss, would be merely a rather more barren California.&quot; And there is always the pleasant feeling when leaving ones own homeland of becoming a stranger in someone elses. Anyone who knows Bowles immaculate tales of delicate strangers purposely stranded will find this book a light read but also a pleasant and informative diversion into the Arab world. My favorite essay is &quot;The Rif, to music&quot;. Bowles finds the key to Morocco's culture in its music. Their traditons and histories are not written down but rather passed down in song. In this chapter Paul is at work compiling what will eventually be the definitive collection of North African tribal music(now in the library of congress). To do so he has to travel to remote regions with tape recorder and runs into every difficulty imaginable with local governments and with the musicians themselves. Bowles laments the fact that the purity of the tribal music is vanishing as travel permits the musicians to play for larger and larger groups which has had diminishing effect on the music. The musicians play shorter and slicker versions of their music to please the crowds. There is a Bowles poem(though it is not in this book) which addresses this called Delicate Song:<br />  It was a long trip back.<br />  White lilies waved by walls.<br />  The sweat from blue grapes<br />  Shone like glass.<br />  A wind blown straight from the harbor<br />  Brushed the long grass.<br />  I suppose we thought of the harbor<br />  And of how it looked with its blue water<br />  And its sailboats moving.<br /><br />  But even though the wind smelt of waves<br />  And of the swamp grass nearer<br />  Our thoughts were of the road.<br />  Flutes are scarcer these days<br />  And flutists are unskilled.<br />  The white lilies were by walls.<br />The music does still exist though. An excellent CD was released in 1992, The Master Musicians of Jajouka, &quot;Apocalypse Across the Sky&quot;(Axiom). If they ever stop playing, legend holds, the world will end.by walls.<BR>     The sweat from blue grapes<BR>     Shone like glass.<BR>     A wind blown straight from the harbor<BR>     Brushed the long grass.<BR>     I suppose we thought of the harbor<BR>     And of how it looked with its blue water<BR>     And its sailboats moving.<BR>     <BR>     But even though the wind smelt of waves<BR>     And of the swamp grass nearer<BR>     Our thoughts were of the road.<br />     Flutes are scarcer these days  <BR>     And flutists are unskilled.<BR>     The white lilies were by walls.   <br />The music does still exist though. An excellent CD was released in 1992, The Master Musicians of Jajouka, &quot;Apocalypse Across the Sky&quot;(Axiom). If they ever stop playing, legend holds, the world will end.	2001-10-22
US	45344448	R3CN3A3GU34IUU	0811210790	967628973	Indian Nocturne (English and Italian Edition)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	&quot;To light and shadow&quot;	This Medicis Prize('89) winning book is an exploration of the  frontiers of identity within very ancient India. It may all be a dream as the &quot;Author's Note&quot; which precedes this 100 page text describes the narrative as an &quot;insomnia&quot; and a &quot;search for a shadow&quot;. You can make of that what you like but those evocative sentences only partially set the tone for Tabucchi's book is a playful series of encounters that his unnamed narrator-protaganist has with fellow travelers and interesting Indian characters along the way to finding a missing friend.  The several encounters read like enquiries, but pleasant ones, and ones with philosophical as well as humorous overtones(in one encounter identity is compared to a suitcase). Some of the sequences are so strange you think it all must be a dream as when a female thief breaks into the narrators hotel room only to be invited to stay the night. Other meetings are full of a very engaging and speculation rich kind of conversation as in the meeting with the Hugo and Pessoa quoting eastern intellectual. If it is all a dream it is a very literate one. The last meeting takes place in the old Portugese port of Goa and there the narrator meets a lovely charming stranger to share a dinner with as he waits for a chance to spy a glimpse of his old searched for friend. But as they eat the narrator relates his &quot;story' in a way that makes one suspect there was no one and nothing to search for after all(modern fiction indeed it is). But you are left after putting this book down with a feeling of having had several intriguing conversations and having met a lovely woman. Not at all a bad feeling. An insomnia well spent.	2001-10-21
US	45344448	R3V2QEKUPQMMD7	0684843781	835712680	This Side Of Paradise	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Early Days of Romantic Scott	Like everything Fitzgerald wrote this has that burnished by the morning sun feel to it. Certainly there are real themes in it that make this a substantial first novel but the lasting appeal is that romanticism that Fitzgerald himself seemed to have created with his own hands.  Forged in that prep school fire though that romanticism isn't made of the toughest stuff and perhaps since Scott never really had any difficulties along the way to becoming a young succesful novelist he was never really forced to become more than that, a young success.  His great theme is romance itself, he brings it to everything from football to war to young ladies to writing, he just has the gift to touch and make golden.  Not many people will be immune to the contagion of such a disease.  Amory is the perfect name for this amourous and ardent young east coaster, a character who was immediately embraced with the publication of this book as the spokesmen for the new up and coming generation, not yet named the lost generation.  This book was full of promise and that feeling was infectious and equally attractive was the rather free libertine approach to sex. With Fitzgerald the twenties were born. Amory's affairs are just that, his romances mere flirtations, but he has the ability to make all seem of utter importance because all outcomes effect the state of our heros grace. An egotist, yes! But at that age, college age, what else is there to be. His egotism fuels his romantic ideas about life, and the fire builds and builds slow and burns as bright as life can burn in youth.....at least on this side of paradise.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	R14UWXA0JCJC50	0865473897	497372117	Dusk and Other Stories	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Interiors of stranded souls	I love the opening story of this collection &quot;Am Strande von Tanger&quot;. From the opening scene setting sentences,&quot;Barcelona at dawn. The hotels are dark. All the great avenues are pointing to the sea.&quot; To the last sentences which tie all together perfectly this story shows three lives mostly in the details and matter of fact happenings of a day trip to the sea.  Nico is the central figure though and hers is the life we are focused on. We watch her struggle all through the story and realize she lacks what the others have, some connectedness to life or center, and she by stories end realizes it. As in many great short stories there is a key moment or epiphany where all in a moment is revealed to someone and that is the case in several of these stories. In &quot;Twenty Minutes&quot; a fallen rider has that much time to sum up her life. And in the title story &quot;Dusk&quot; a divorced womans loneliness is made all too poignant by Salters writing as the moment has come in her life that she realizes she will probably always be alone. Other memorable stories include a study of a film company which is told  by the alternating voices of the players including scriptwriter, actor, actress, director, producer, and assistants. This stories kaliedoscope of voices is very fun to read as each player has a different take on what is going on in the production and each players personal insecurites effect that individual view of the overall picture. A very well crafted story that reminds one of a Fellini movie like La Dolca Vita in miniature where the sacred and profane compete for top billing. The military reunion story as well as the last story are forgettable. But &quot;Foreign Shores&quot; about a divorced woman's suspicions is a very good portrait of paranoia caused by suppressed personal anxieties. And the story &quot;American Express&quot;, though about two unlikeable types who make a load of money and take a European tour together, is one of the better examples of gaining the world only to lose ones soul in the process(a film of this story will soon appear on PBS). Also three stories deal with failed artists, though each in a very distinct way. Hard to find a better collection than this.les of gaining the world only to lose ones soul in the process(a film of this story will soon appear on PBS). Also three stories deal with failed artists, though each in a very distinct way. Hard to find a better collection than this.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	R9JLOAJ1TF35H	0802136001	49654664	An Invisible Spectator: A Biography of Paul Bowles	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Where reason does not go	Paul Bowles lived in Morocco for a reason, he embraced the mystery of it,perhaps enjoyed losing his western self in it, and there is no solving in any easy rational way the mystery that is Paul Bowles. But this is a great gathering of the known facts. I appreciate the lack of speculation and reading into things ....the author allows you to accompany him through this life decade by decade, sticking to what is known. And Bowles, however good your guide, remains a territory for the most part unknown.<br />  It may be worthwhile to compare this to Paul Bowles own autobiography Without Stopping published in early seventies.<br />  In this biography you get a picture of Paul as a child, as well as a restless young man who cannot resist the call to Europe. You get Paul as composer of numerous film scores, poems, and a general idea of this middle period before that better known period as writer marked by the publication of that first book Sheltering Sky. Also there is an interesting portrait of Jane, his talented and troubled wife. And a picture of Paul at work with his protege Mohammed Mrabet whose oral tales he transcribed(including:Love With a Few Hairs, Lemon, Boy Who Caught Fire, others). This will give you a very good idea of Paul as glimpsed by an outsider as it is a competent and readable dossier of facts and dates. There are more speculative works about Paul Bowles available but really I think the fiction is the place to go. There you will find the most interesting Bowles, the composer of tales and mysteries, even riddles of what it is to be human. The story of Paul's life is interesting and perhaps it will help some who like to interpret stories with the support of biographical data but ultimately the facts in this case anyway do not go very far.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	RM1APRIDI5NDT	0394759486	864433181	Burning the Days: Recollection	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Unique Education: Flying, Film, Europe, Women, Books	Autobiography, memoir...there is probably a better word to describe this fascinating book by the always fascinating James Salter. The early chapters covering the authors youth and education are somewhat conventional. The flying years are exciting. But the real heart of this book is the 75 page long chapter titled UKIYO which is a highly condensed telling of Salters film career and novel writing career. In that chapter you really get to see what makes Salter tick. He reveals his life not in the telling of personal details but by sharing with you the fascination and admiration he has for certain people, certain qualities. In that chapter one sees the importance of Europe and Europeans in the shaping of his sensibility. That chapter is one portrait after another of personalities brimming with life and it reads like a second and more interesting kind of education. The most interesting figures are not necessarily the names you will recognize though there are plenty of those. Salter as observer and absorber of life is not necessarily attracted to those who achieved greatness in their fields, he is more interested in those that achieved a greatness of character which is a very telling glimpse into this writers value system.<br />  From days in the cockpit to days lunching with film stars in Rome to the final scene of writer with longtime companion and friends, this is a writer who has been attracted and dedicated to living first and writing second.  The various aspects and phases of Salters life are not all integrated into a single linear narrative rather they remain somewhat separate chapters of an experience and event rich life that is still being lived. As a writer he just keeps getting better. I sense just as Nabokov wrote Speak, Memory before embarking on his final masterpiece Salter too will follow this memoir with a career crowning work of his own.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	RVUWI599U5GOK	0811212475	146501305	The Crack-Up	Books	5	41	48	N	N	first crack,last light	If you ever wondered what the down side of the twenties were read this. The excess was all a grand show, an escape from post war realities. A whole generation seemed to refuse to grow up, at least for awhile. Maturity was forced upon Scott and in these short confessions he reveals that all was not well in paradise. He lived in a haze of liquor, that was the dream preserving liquid illusion.  But reality was not to be fought off forever. This is as close to a biography as we have from Scott, and it is moving in the way it is moving to see an athlete we all wanted to believe would live forever come to his day of retirement. He had the ability or charisma compounded by artistic talent to embody not just his but a whole societies dreams. But his moment passed and by the time Scott wrote this his books were no longer the rage. What makes him such a tragic figure is that he never altogether let go of those first illusons, never went through a moment where he learned from them and let them go. And one senses just as he had the egotists ability to romanticize his life with his words he also had the ability to perhaps overdramatize his own demise. He was not a person to learn, become made of harder stuff, and continue. Still there is some good stuff in this book. His letters to his daughter( who also wished to become a writer) in which he urges her to read great authors including his own favorite Browning are touching and revealing.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	RVXVQVGYVLJP0	0679411127	837963507	V. S. Pritchett Complete Collected Essays	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A readers bible	If you've read a lot of criticism and not liked much of it because its so overloaded with literary jargon and fadishness well Pritchett is your man. He began writing literary criticism for a WWII publication which required his essays be short and concise and to the point and he retained those virtues throughout his essay writing career which was long as he lived to be very near 100 years old. He is a man who does not read just one book and then sit down to review it, rather he reads and reads and reads many times an authors entire output plus bios and other essential peripheral data before coming to his review which nevertheless remains an insightful few pages. He will reaquaint you with the known greats and point you toward the great lights of overlooked national literatures. His essays tuned me onto the great Portugese novelist Eca De Queiros, the Austrian Robert Musil, as well he has shed his very clear and well lit lamp on already known favorites like Dostoyevsky and Turgenev and Balzac and Stendhal. He has the readers passion and so knows how to talk to readers who want to spend their life reading good books and have no time to waste on criticism except as a useful guide to the next good book. Pritchett has no agenda, just a great gift for understanding and responding to what is best in each author and each work he comes across.  You will after reading him trust him. He is the one companion you will trust. There are other good critics like Edmund Wilson for one, but none who have read as much and have written about virtually every important novelist of the 18th and 19th centuries and most of the 20th century greats as well. A readers bible.	2001-10-20
US	45344448	R3VQ9GVJE3V1KR	0865473218	992432037	Solo Faces: A Novel	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A View from the Top of the World	This great book by Salter who has authored many great books may just be his best. The book is about rock climbing. That sport is  the most extreme of the extreme sports but also the most solitary and therefore most spiritual and lyrical as it is so often done alone and any mistake is almost certainly a fatal one. The book begins on the top of a church in L.A. where our main character Rand is doing yet another impermanent odd job in an equally impermanent location repairing roofs for a summer, a situation that allows him to retain his most cherished  possession, his freedom. And the ultimate expression of that freedom is climbing. Nothing holds Rand for long, no place and no woman, and so very soon in the novel he is off to the Swiss and French Alps, locations of some of the most heralded peaks including the sheer faced obelisks, the Eiger and the Dru. The book is full of climbing lore(including one mountain rescue based in fact) and that great theme of man versus nature as well as the writing style recalls Conrad and Hemingway. Salters sense of adventure  as well as his aptitude to tell a story perfectly recalls both authors, but he has his own style and what he does with this adventure tale is completely his own. Salter shows the great romantic appeal of his hero Rand and he also shows the singular nature of such a character and how a life dedicated to legendary feats and life-in-peril daring can leave a man at some remove from others. The minor characters include climbing friends and the various women involved in Rand's love affairs. Though each of them a brief episode only the love episodes are poignant as they more than any other part of the book show how unreachably alone romantic Rand really is. Subtle scenes between men and women who say very little to each other but feel very real is something Salter is especially good at. Very very highly recommended to outdoor enthusiasts and lovers of pristine sentences strung gracefully together and which seem to catch the hard glint of the mountain sun itself. Salter is an author who has only written five novels,one story collection, and a memoir, each one is very much worth your while.he hard glint of the mountain sun itself. Salter is an author who has only written five novels,one story collection, and a memoir, each one is very much worth your while.	2001-10-19
US	45344448	R3KQU4MVA16BWR	0803260717	303149856	The Complete Short Stories of Ambrose Bierce	Books	5	83	84	N	N	I suppose this must be death	Ambrose Bierce's most famous story is An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge and many of his stories follow that same kind of pattern: an event is related with some surprising or revelatory twist at the end. The stories of the Civil War are especially interesting as they are not at all typical writings about war. Bierce does not see the battle so much as one of North against South rather he sees the war as the child sees the war in his story Chickamauga, his attitude is one combining fascination at the spectacle and utter disgust. Life is an unresolved jumble of confused forces and mixed emotions for everyone in Bierce's haunting tales that read like dreams but dreams informed by much contact with reality as Bierce was wounded twice(once in the head)in the war he describes. The descriptions of Civil War battles are told with great precision(and alone make this volume worth having) though there is always an additional element to make them more than war reportage, Bierce turns his accounts into stories because he sees through all the cannon smoke to the small detail which encapsulates the essential thing about an event. In one of my favorites, Killed at Resaca, a courageous captain gallops across a field to deliver a crucial message only to find the field is impassable because of a deep gully, instead of turning around however he merely waits for the enemy to shoot him. Going through his personal things a fellow soldier, the narrator of the story, finds a letter which explains this resolve. The letter reads:&quot;...I could bear to hear of my soldier- lover's death, but not of his cowardice.&quot; Later, when the narrator has a chance to return the letter to its author he is asked by her how her soldier-lover died. &quot;He was bitten by a snake,&quot;is the narrators reply. Bierce's pen was dipped in wormwood and acid said H.L. Mencken. His stories of soldiers and civilians are told with a bitter and venomous clarity. His humor was always of the sort aquainted with the gallows. He said at age 71,&quot;I am so old I am ashamed to be alive.&quot; And so he rode off to Mexico. It's hard to imagine Stephen Crane existing without the example of Ambrose Bierce just as it is hard to imagine Bierce without Poe. What a strange tradition of independents we have.llows. He said at age 71,&quot;I am so old I am ashamed to be alive.&quot; And so he rode off to Mexico. It's hard to imagine Stephen Crane existing without the example of Ambrose Bierce just as it is hard to imagine Bierce without Poe. What a strange tradition of independents we have.	2001-10-17
US	45344448	R1RWEG98W5X9P7	0060922672	165372414	The Dream at the End of the World: Paul Bowles and the Literary Renegades in Tangier	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Paul's place	This isn't a strict literary biography of any of the individual authors that gathered for a time in Morocco, rather its a portrait of the night life (mostly) that all the celebrities literary and otherwise took part in while there. Its better than you might think though. Coming to this book for its literary interest is not a waste of time. There is an interesting segment about Brion Gysin and his club where the mountain musicians performed(would love to have seen that). But there is an awful lot of socialites up to no good ... too. Who gives a ... about Barbara Hutton?  The interesting aspect of that though is that it shows the decadent westerners living it up in the lap of poverty. Artists go to places for different reasons than Mick Jagger(no offense Mick) does after all. It is the artists that make a place hip for the work they do while there. This book is in a way perhaps unconsciously an example of how hip gathers parasites and then the parasites take over,and after that happens the place becomes too expensive and too congested and too self-consciously hip for the real artists and they move on. This is Vanity Fair,the magazine, both the good and the bad(they have on occasion done a good literary piece). It is an entertaining read at least and loaded with good glossy black and white pictures and we all like a little decadence now and then, the parties are kinda cool. A good photo album with snapshot portraits of all the players but for the deeper story(you know the stories about the ones that actually wrote a book or two) read the bios of the individual artists.	2001-10-17
US	45344448	R3NBUIZR43R74B	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Isn't it pretty to think so	This is a much mellowed Hemingway looking back late in his life at his young days in Paris with first wife Hadley. And it is such a beautiful portrait both of Paris and of his first marriage that  no one can resist it. There is some really good writing here, especially the portraits of his fellow expatriots but its a personal memoir and as most writers will he makes it all seem so festive which it probably was but compare this to his novel Sun Also Rises or any  of his several collections of stories and you are comparing mere reminiscences with substantial work. Still one imagines Hemingway enjoyed writing this and that last line of the book will kill you.  Hemingway sentimental, here he is. But thats the charm of it. Its nice to see this side of him even though one knows this is a selectively imagined past minus the demons that drove him.	2001-10-17
US	45344448	R1A43OS43UPH1Z	0935576096	690053630	Gold Being the Marvelous History of General John Augustus Sutter (English and French Edition)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Tale Told in a Rush	&quot;On again, and the track flies beneath the swift hooves of the horses.&quot; The only reason to read this is if you love Cendrars poetry and just can't get enough of it. This book has great moments especially in the early going icluding that first glimpse of our hero in small Swiss village, as well as Sutters arrival in New York and his various careers in various kinds of swindling. Cendrars paints an interesting portrait of a man who learns all he needs to know about America from conversations had in bars. His listening gains him crucial bits of information that will shape his destiny. The journey west is great Cendrars writing full of gusto and energy but the accelerated pace of the telling only remains exciting while Sutter is in motion. After he settles down the hectic style doesn't carry the story or tell it nearly as well as it should be told. Gold is an unfinished work, an attractive but only partially completed manuscript. Interesting attempt to tell a story applying Cendrars poetic breakthroughs to novel writing though only partially successful. For Cendrars completists only. Moravagine is a much more satisfying novel by this wild Swiss traveler-poet.	2001-10-17
US	45344448	R3VN8O72O4B2YC	0679723390	314509680	Speak, Memory: An Autobiography Revisited	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Amusing musings	This is a book best appreciated by those who have already spent much time in the company of the refined riddles that are Nabokov's novels.  Nabokov's writing style is full of linguistic flourishes which leave one with no doubt that language in his hands becomes a fine instrument indeed, he takes the normal art of storytelling and novel making merely as a suggestion from which he departs wherever and whenever he sees fit to serve the higher calling, his own sublime whims. Speak, Memory is no exception as the general rule of anarchy at play in Nabokovian fiction applies to it as well.  So if you like the game playing that goes on in his work this is in that same category of entertainment. There are however more conventional biographies available if that is what you seek(Boyd wrote an excellent several tome study of his work and life). Nabokov is an artist who has turned his own rarefied sensibility into his own favorite topic in this favorite topics driven &quot;autobiography&quot;, it is really a several ring circus and all rings feature Nabokov achieving mastery over yet another of them and in all the rings the central figure is all the while winking.	2001-10-17
US	45344448	R1VW1HN8J9YK4	014044503X	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	14	N	N	heart with a head in its hand	Mann, apparently(read above),said that Napolean carried a copy of this with him and read it seven times. I want proof of that, perhaps a notebook entry with his review. Romanticism is a difficult movement to revisit, especially German romanticism which was the most extreme. Were it not for the romantic movement we would still be writing clever Swiftian tales of the tub. Maybe that would not be such a bad thing. Romantics, true ones, only have one thing to do, die.  That is perhaps why the movement did not last. Werther is complex, very smart, but he just allows his feelings to be his dominant function to use a Jungian phrase. Feelings when sharpened by thought become very interesting things but Werther never allows his thinking self to converse with his feeling self. Byron was a much more interesting romantic because his heroes possessed both faculties in equal portions and so his is not such a dreamy aesthetic, Byron feels but his feelings have  teeth and Byron was romantic but one that did not wholly give up on Pope and the tradition he represented. Werther just feels too passive. This work is revolutionary because it throws over all the past betting all on a new kind of vision(admirable) but I wish it were greater. I want to see Werther mature beyond this moment in his life, that is the only logical thing for him to do(ah, logic). But Goethe was writing about a true romantic and the only real consummation for a romantic is death. Luckily Goethe himself did follow his logic as an artist and became much more than a romantic, he became a spokesmen for mans deepest and most enduring longings. I believe Goethe lived to be 83.	2001-10-13
US	45344448	R2T22SWOABI9J3	0451517938	691474875	The Red and the Black (Signet classics)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Apres	I think this book can be read as a reaction against romanticism, or as exemplified in the character of Julien Sorel, an example of how someone could take advantage of a still lingering romanticism. Stendhal was writing at a time when romanticism had already played itself out and so what could follow that movement. An aftermath movement.  Stendhals is a cynicism that naturally follows any idealistic movement that has failed. Julien Sorel is not likeable as Fabrice, his later hero, is. Julien is nothing more than a gigolo and an especially detestable one because he preys on the emotions of others,that is his entree into society, but there is nothing romantic about Julien. He is simply playing the necessary part and that is a theme which is in all of Stendhals work. That strange indefiniteness of identity, as if we are all playing interchangeable roles. Julien works his way up in society by playing with the hearts of the wives of men in influential households but he does not get far and perhaps he doesn't really care or perhaps he does. There is a mystery as to the true nature of this low born soul that is never solved. This is Stendhals tragic hero. He is not romantic, just born to a particular time and forced perhaps to play the only cards he has to play. Charterhouse of Parma is Stendhals comedy. More fun than this work and in recent years it seems to have eclipsed Red and the Black in regards to most favored book status but it is a captivating read about a transitional moment in French society(and literature). Stendahls characters are never as complex as Stendahl himself. Reading him one is constantly wondering just what his literary statements are. Cynical he is, but with a love for drama. Perhaps cynicism allows one the proper distance to really enjoy the human comedy, but ironically it also serves as an impetus to act because action, even misguided action in Stendhals work, is preferable to torpor. So maybe he is a romantic after all but one that has ceased to believe in the direction his heart takes him but goes anyway. There is no other choice.elieve in the direction his heart takes him but goes anyway. There is no other choice.	2001-10-13
US	45344448	R1VE3PI6I27BY9	0140186832	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Silence, exile and cunning	Ulysses might be considered the masterpiece of this prose stylist to beat all stylists but Portrait though shorter has more story in it as its subject matter is the coming to consciousness of the young Stephen Dedalus from pre-verbal youth to highly verbal young thinking man. The early pages are fascinating as young Stephen learns his first words amid discussions of Irish politics. As Stephen matures he becomes more and more independent of his immediate and humble background as only the very highest thinkers are capable of engaging him(Aquinas being one in a line of important influences that he absorbs). The book is really Stephens search for the proper course for his life to take and by the last pages he has devised his intellectual strategy. The influences shape him but one can see they have served only to awaken what will no doubt be a very original mind. Joyce writes wonderful sentences and the experimentation and newness of the style still feels that way, it remains a great modern book,and it remains the greatest of the coming of age books. Ulysses has less story but each of the events of that one day are loaded to the hilt with stylistic homages to all the great literature that came before it, brilliant but it does leave one gasping for air. Great book but this ones smaller scope places it in a more accessible range for readers who might want to get used to Joyce in stages . There are a good many passages in this one that rival the ones in that bigger more lauded book. Portrait was the laboratory out of which came Ulysses, but it is a work that stands very well on its own and a very exciting work it is to anyone who cares about books and the investigation of life through words.	2001-10-12
US	45344448	R2RQI8Y02YYWYT	0385260458	217099174	Anthills of the Savannah	Books	5	27	28	N	N	where is my country today?	Achebe wrote three classic books in the 1950's and then after a long hiatus returned to the novel with the publication of Anthills in 89. The earlier books dealt with the effect of modern civilization on traditional African life. This book uses one nation as an example of what is happening with many nations as they struggle to find their own version of modern life without altogether letting go of tradition. The characters are all educated, many in the west, but strictly western modes of rule do not work in third world conditions quite as smoothly as they do in industrial conditons.  Big changes are needed and a big leader is needed to effect those changes quickly and successfully but that age old maxim applies here as elsewhere: power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. A great book showing how good intentions can quickly go wrong. Achebe tells the story through the personalities playing a part in it and so you never feel he is making abstract points. He shows the human side of these dramas we so often see played out on the 6'o clock news. A touching and tragic book. Achebe is a fascinating person to see interviewed as well, perhaps the most articulate and insightful spokesman on modern Africa as it searches to find its shape.	2001-10-11
US	45344448	ROAAE6XAECQGO	0811201171	266859022	Death in Midsummer: And Other Stories (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	temples of prose	Mishima writes very stark stories of spiritual emptiness. My favorite is the story Ten Yen about a young couple who must resort to desperate economic measures, the young woman must prostitute herself to earn them money. Mishimas ascetic style is not necessarily uplifting but it does make for an interesting aesthetic intensity. These short stories are each very uniquely populated but that single focus is never lost. They feel quickly executed but perfect like ink drawing, an art where you get one chance only to make a perfect gesture.  Existentialism as practiced in the orient. For Mishima authenticity was ritually sought after but the world he wanted to live in was one relegated to the past. Art was no substitute for his imagined and longed for spiritual kingdom though he tried to live as though it was, at least for awhile.	2001-10-11
US	45344448	R1SYXYDPMDEDLH	0140061401	441590930	July's People	Books	5	4	7	N	N	village of man	July's people live in a village outside of town. July works for South African whites in town. But the whites treat July well and so when a revolution comes that threatens all whites July takes the whites he works for to the only safe place he knows, his village and so they too become July's people. A really interesting premise full of insight into the value of smaller things like friendship and decency in the face of overwhelming and wholly unexpected events.	2001-10-11
US	45344448	R3LY2BS6TJI8KY	0140132716	961055788	Eastern Approaches	Books	5	1	2	N	N	He Who Dares Wins	In Paris he served as a member of the foreign service, from there he transferred to Moscow and while in Moscow ventured by train and by foot into regions of that country off limits to foreigners and he did so pursued by the N.K.V.D.(pre K.G.B. secret police). Later he was parachuted into Yugoslavia to meet up with Tito's forces and there greatly contributed to the resistance against the Nazis. The most exciting part of this though(though its all unbelievably exciting)is reading about his part in the North African campaigns. Maclean was a brilliant practitioner in the T.E. Lawrence brand of fighting, in fact there is a photo of him in full desert headress driving a machine gun clad rover over the dunes on one of his many hit and run strikes. He reported directly to Churchill and the two would meet in Cairo. A gentleman fighter if there ever was one. Would love to read the transcripts of those conversations. This is the Lawrence of Arabia of WWII. Fascinating portraits of Russia and its eastern provinces in the thirties,  of Englands temporary and uneasy alliance with Titos communist forces in Yugoslavia, and those impossibly romantic desert scenes of gentleman Fitzroy leading caravans of jeeps and rovers behind heavily defended enemy lines to supposedly unreachable destinations and against all odds winning victory after victory. Hip Hip Hooray.	2001-10-10
US	45344448	RFAEO98KPAGG0	0679761047	987818425	Snow Country	Books	5	2	3	N	N	delights of the mountain spring	Published in 1957 this work is reminiscent of Thomas Mann in that its lead character Shimamura is an aesthete and one with plenty of free time on his hands. Unlike Mann's characters, however, who never indulge themselves in the earthen paradise of the senses  Kawabatas characters do. Are they better off for it? Hard to say. This book is Shimamura's sensual vacation but still he remains at a distance even while his every sense is indulged by the geisha Komako who seems to be offering him something more than the usual host of pleasures. The writing is poetic describing the snow covered mountains but like the mountains one senses there is something strangely remote about Shimamura as well. It is never quite clear just what until the end. Several possibilities will gently rest on the mind as one reads this mystery which I am quite sure Mann himself would have admired.	2001-10-10
US	45344448	R3HIM7912R45K6	0385491050	235045723	Surfacing	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Green Years of Young Margaret	This is one of Atwoods early novels. Written in the seventies it has many of that decades concerns in it: environmentalism, organic reality taking precedence over industrialization. Those big themes are in there but also the much more personal identity quest of the main female character. And her quest also feels like one that could only take place in the seventies as it involves shamanic symbols in her attempt to unify her mothers and fathers or male and female aspects into her own personal identity structure. In that way she is reminiscent of Virginia Woolf who also sought a male/female blend, but a much earthier Woolf, one that came of age in the sixties. The Canada of this book sounds like a very unspoiled virgin world that still evokes those equally unspoiled states of mind that verge on the mystic. Very appealing, strange book. I think perhaps Atwood was attempting to write a distinctly Canadian kind of literature replete with a regional mythology.	2001-10-10
US	45344448	R1TW9LWSL14S3S	1557042578	941831372	A Midnight Clear: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Chateau on the front lines	This group of soldiers attached to the elite intelligence outfit known as the A.S.T.P.E.R.S. are extremely likable. This odd assortment of guys are the kind of people you want to be assigned with if you ever find yourself in similar circumstances...snowed in to a remote observation post. They are each very human and each has qualities which make life seem like very valuable goods indeed. The waste of war effects each one differently. On that title midnight things do not go as planned and there is more waste but this novel with very little combat in it does make things very clear, no one wants to fight. The character interaction makes this a worthwhile read. Not a big anti-war novel but a small one with a lyric attraction.	2001-10-10
US	45344448	R26I5TK183PZBR	0156907399	762777669	To the Lighthouse	Books	5	7	10	N	N	light spaces between us	Stream of consciousness prose went in and out of style pretty fast, though some experimenters occasionally make use of it still no one used it to greater effect than Joyce and Woolf. Of course they had the advantage of using the style first and so it was new. In my opinion Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man was the best novel ever written in this style, but To the Lighthouse is the second best. Published in 1927 it deals with very large issues but in a very intimate setting. The Ramsay vacation home is visited every summer and every summer change and time itself makes its presence felt in varying ways on each of the consciousnesses that occuppy the house. The center consciousness is Mrs. Ramsay's whose quiet devotion to her family is compared to a freer kind of existence in the form of a female painter.  Mrs. Ramsay is a kind of beacon to her family, she provides the safety and comfort that comes with order and ritual. Her husband is the head of the family and the one more connected to worldly awareness and concerns but her less obvious and less defineable role is really the one that allows all to function. But things happen that cannot be controlled. The war breaks the routine that had been established over the years and after the war things are no longer as they were, there is a desolate feel as post war life resumes because things that were once there no longer are. The interior monologues that capture each character in their moments of being support an overall view being that most of life is lived alone and to oneself and forces we cannot control really determine the demeanor of our days,  our own decisions are important but in relation to the larger forces shaping them very small things. The books of the twenties are still the best. A quiet book that sends very deep and resonant waves through ones mind and body.	2001-10-09
US	45344448	R1GWP8TC2IH8E4	0140432248	82761703	The Aspern Papers and The Turn of the Screw	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Art of Fiction	Well these are my two favorite works by Henry James. In both James displays his very neatly honed talents for creating fine fictional universes and architecturally perfect stories where all seems to be just right but of course it isn't. James is writing in the still young American tradition of letters but he has cleared away much of the romanticism that was so evident in Hawthorne and Melville. The romanticism still exists but it is not in the writers brain, it exists in the characters alone. James was the first to really write at a remove from his characters. He tells  each tale with no authorial comment to sway your opinion of his characters one way or another, he lets the reader make his own observations and draw his own conclusions based on the characters behaviour and thoughts. That authorial distance allows him to simply relate the story, not explain it, and James stories are each as intricate as the psychologies that occupy them. In these two stories he creates very intriguing and complex situations. Both are mysteries and both perhaps have no easy solution or resolution because James lets the complex minds and psychologies of his characters subjectively grapple with a web that they have themselves woven and any resolution would mean an unraveling of their entire character. These are story long webs which can be baffling(Aspern Papers) or terrifying(Turn of the Screw), the psychological webs these characters weave can lead them to frightening extremes(Turn of the Screw) or can serve as a necessary support for the fragile psyche that created them(Aspern Papers).  The real thrill of reading James is in how controlled a manner all is told. There are no obvious clues just psychological gradations and patterns which begin adding up to an overall impression. It can seem after finishing one of his stories that nothing much has happened at all, and yet a psychology has all the while been examined and quite thoroughly.  Through his stories much is revealed about what lies just beneath the facade of life and  what motivates our most basic perceptions, our identity, and our societal or world view. It has been said that James brought the insight of a psycholgist to his stories. But his insights are much more profound than a mere clinicians notes. In James we get a highly discerned character in a highly discerned context and the discerning reader will be entertained and enlightened and inspired to contemplate the workings of ones own intricate structure.lies just beneath the facade of life and  what motivates our most basic perceptions, our identity, and our societal or world view. It has been said that James brought the insight of a psycholgist to his stories. But his insights are much more profound than a mere clinicians notes. In James we get a highly discerned character in a highly discerned context and the discerning reader will be entertained and enlightened and inspired to contemplate the workings of ones own intricate structure.	2001-10-05
US	45344448	R341APOLLKG9SQ	0151707553	28404780	Pale Horse, Pale Rider (H B J MODERN CLASSIC)	Books	5	37	41	N	N	pale handed prose	I think the author that Katherine Anne Porter is most often compared to is Thomas Mann. Both wrote their best known work in the novella form and both use a highly distilled prose which is rich in symbols. Death in Venice and Pale Horse Pale Rider(both dealing with plagues of some sort) are two of the best novellas you are likely to come across, both appear in most novella collections(even though Porter didn't much care for that word). Porter evokes another author though as well, Mary Shelley, in Pale Horse Pale Rider. Being a male reader who doesn't read a lot of female authors I am always struck by something in authors like Dickinson and Woolf and Porter and Plath which is that distanced perspective, the writing seeming to come from somewhere outside of life, real life being only a memory. This may be a personal point of view only but in Pale Horse the main character Miranda, even before the epidemic hits, seems the perfect example of this phenomenon as she seems not to very much want to participate in the life around her. She may be tempted into something resembling life by her lover Adam but still she seems to be sleepwalking. So it is not all that surprising that when death does enter her chamber so to speak it is received as not an altogether unwelcome guest. Miranda's dream or vision is so well written and the pace of it so well sustained throughout that you feel you have accompanied her through it. One of those sequences you never quite forget. The coming to life again segment(Shelley)is also quite astonishing and strangely, eerily beautiful. The other two tales are good too but this is the one you will remember. There are many great romantic and symbolist(especially) paintings that you will feel you understand or have a strange communion with after having read this.	2001-10-05
US	45344448	RKI0V427GYOQ	0553213334	321329502	Death in Venice and Other Stories	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Art and Time in Italy	The shorter tales are good but are really like imperfect sketches  made in study for the grand finale piece Death in Venice. Most of the tales deal with sensual longing which is never satisfied or consummated and that gets a bit tiring unless you see the sensual longing representing some higher longing as well, the sensual longing perhaps being one in the same with spiritual and artistic longing. That way you are more in the frame of mind to see that Death in Venice is not just about an older mans lust for a younger man but a prolonged meditation about time and art and all those highly valued goods. I have to confess I get tired of Mann pretty quick because he dwells on the same themes over and over again but if you are a student of fiction he really is one of those writers who has much to teach. Still it sometimes seems to me that Mann's characters would be better off if they occasionally just went ahead and did it. That may sound to be an awful oversimplification but I think they would feel better and their already instable identities and worlds would not constantly be shaken to the ground by those too long suppressed desires.  As for the spirit and artistic sense, they too would be happier, much more contented, with the occasional release and renewal of energies, a bit of fleshen contact would connect them to something more real than their &quot;thoughts&quot; about things. Anyway if you haven't already read Death in Venice you are lucky because it is a great read, though a strange and sometimes disturbed one. If you like your main characters made of more earthy substance than Mann's suffering spirits read D.H. Lawrence who also loved Italy by the way and who contemplated time and art in a much more relaxed manner.	2001-10-05
US	45344448	RO95STEMB624E	0140042598	303305496	On the Road (Penguin Orange Collection)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	road to nowhere	This book is pretty cool, I have to admit. I don't have a lot of patience for those who try to say it is one of the important books of the century though. The reason it is cool is because it doesn't pretend to know anything or have anything to offer. It's just a cross country ramble, a cool book long song with some real beauty in it, I love the Mexico part. This kind of writing turns on people who don't really normally like literature and that is fine with me. I like literature though, not because it pretends to be important but because it is a forum where people make sense of life and a novel is important for what useful insight it offers. On the Road doesn't really offer insight, it offers a momentary journeying away from the task of living and coping. That's why it's kind of a summer song, a great book for those taking a break from things. The road doesn't lead anywhere though, except away. This book is picked up by almost every American kid and maybe every European kid too but what people remember most fondly about it is not what was in the book but who they were and what time of life they were in when they read it. Jack is the perfect companion for that moment in life when it feels like there is nowhere to go and nothing to become but that moment passes. People find things that they value and begin to make a life around them, Jack never made a life for himself, he never got past the wandering restless and aimless phase. His moments of beauty are perhaps all the more powerful because we know and maybe he knew there wasn't going to be a next phase for him. Four stars because as a rite of passage book it has no equal.	2001-09-22
US	45344448	R3AK732VQAVO1J	0802130348	608650234	Waiting for Godot: A Tragicomedy in Two Acts	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nothing was Delivered	Imagine going to the theatre and expecting an extravagant production complete with stage settings and costumes and lots of actors coming and going across the stage and then being confronted with this. An empty stage except perhaps for a bare leafless tree, just a black backdrop that is never changed and only two actors costumed in dusty rags who never leave the stage. And imagine a dialogue as sparse as the setting and you have Beckett.  A post WWII theatre, or perhaps post-apocalyptic depending on which production you see. But modern, there is no mistaking that. Not so much existential as absurd though of course those two definitions overlap. Existential implies a certain amount of freedom though that one does not feel except of course in an oppressive way on becketts stage. Freedom, perhaps, but there is nothing to be done with it. Absurdity. The actors go through the motions of a dialogue but they get nowhere and nothing is ever found out, least of all who Godot is. Waiting for Godot, the title, is like a zen state but graceless, a frustrated  state, neither here nor there. The dialogue begins to wear down to repeated phrases and simple gestures but that is it. The experience is a less than exalting one but it is powerful in a strange anti-mythic way. Rituals exist but meaningless ones. A bitterly ironic theatre where even the value of speech itself is brought into question. But the players go on playing. Deliberately acting out their assigned roles for lack of having anything better to do. Beckett has given them no further instructions. And so the curtain closes.  And the lights are turned on. And the doors to the modern world open.	2001-09-22
US	45344448	R3I1K7B5065G9N	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Paul, and the war	If ever a book deserved more stars than five, this is the one. Remarque wrote the best war novel in existence. This book is the one book every school should require because there is so much wisdom in it. The war itself is seen most clearly not on the battlefield but in the slow-atrophy-of-the-soul-effect it has on Paul, the German soldier. There has been no one before or since  to prove there is any better way to write an anti-war novel. If you read this you will be a better person, plain and simple. Why else read a book.	2001-09-22
US	45344448	R3JHSZTDRXTMQ6	0060830948	65725870	The Great Short Works of Herman Melville	Books	5	13	15	N	N	truth comes in with darkness	This is the beginning of American literature. And these short works I think tell the tale more clearly than that confusing (though still great) big book Moby Dick.  Melville wrote from an outsiders perspective and he was an outsider as perhaps all Americans were because we did not yet have an identity as a people. Melville explores our institutions of justice and our ability to comprehend life through them in Billy Budd in the way a foreigner would examine justice and understanding in a land whose logic he was unfamiliar with. He seems to ask &quot;how will our sense of justice be different than France's or England's and therby make us a different nation than theirs?&quot; or even more simply &quot;Is real understanding(of ourselves, or others) ever possible?&quot; Melville is very much the anti-idealist in a work like The Piazza in which one valley dweller imagines existence on the upper slopes to be grander than his own only to travel there one day and be made aware of the opposite. So there is no dreaming colonist in Melville, in him we have a measured study of ourselves as we were in his day, and perhaps still are, a dreaming people,a restless people with only the vaguest notions of what life and its true nature is. The strangest story in this collection is Benito Cereno which is perhaps the work which most defines a democratic nation's uneasy alliance of peoples and points of view. In that work there is no one defining perspective, only differing views of one event that remains disturbingly unclear as all of Melville's worlds are. In Melville we have an author defining what we are or perhaps more importantly what our problems will be in the future. Interesting short works full of that rare kind of insight that does not seem to be trapped in its time but somehow seems to have seen what is to come. There is the idea that a new nation has of itself and a confidence that in the works of Melville is challenged. The mystery in these works is the mystery at the heart of existence and life remains inscrutable even here in this new land with its new ways. In Moby Dick the innocent Ishmael is the only one spared, in Billy Budd(Melville's last tale) the innocent is the one sacrificed. Melville's vision is not a comfortable one. The strange Bartelby,the Scrivener is a tale where personality is consumed by an impersonal system. The story strikes an odd alienated tone which will later be taken up by Kafka and Pynchon and countless others.of existence and life remains inscrutable even here in this new land with its new ways. In Moby Dick the innocent Ishmael is the only one spared, in Billy Budd(Melville's last tale) the innocent is the one sacrificed. Melville's vision is not a comfortable one. The strange Bartelby,the Scrivener is a tale where personality is consumed by an impersonal system. The story strikes an odd alienated tone which will later be taken up by Kafka and Pynchon and countless others.	2001-09-22
US	45344448	RMOFLX8LPRKOL	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A vast entertainment	As a book about American soldiers in WWII London this is really good. In fact the first 100 pages of this are great, especially the Pirate character who seems to thrive amid the chaos and refuse of the repeatedly bombed building he lives in. But unfortunately the book is not really about WWII London but about the demise of all cultural forms(yawn). At least that is my take on this book which I eventually found harder and harder to care about. Pynchon is a black comic who outdoes Heller and Vonnegut and all those sixties hipsters in his prolonged analysis of CULTURE in the hyper self-conscious post-modern epoch we live in. He is one of those authors who is really more interesting to read about than to read. His ideas are interesting. For instance his fascination with the various kinds of systems that we all live in is a genuine attempt to make sense. Much of this book though doesn't seem to want to make sense but just to have fun with nonsense which is fine if that is the kind of entertainment you seek. Not my bag really. Don't get me wrong, I like laughing, Dr. Strangelove is funny but it doesn't go on this long. To me it is a shame that a novelist with this much talent seems to waste it on jokes. Maybe that is his comment on our very unserious culture. The book does have many themes, even some mystical overtones but after so many vaudevillian antics its hard to sort it out and even to know just how serious to take it. A vast entertainment, that is all.	2001-09-22
US	45344448	R3QWLW02D2V02P	0802132952	783763378	Naked Lunch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	No Glot Come Friday	(...)  The pages of this book were scattered about Burroughs Moroccan den known as Villa Delirium, written during a several month long binge......There is no strict story line just scenes, all of which take place in America. Drugs were Burroughs way of reordering experience according to his need and so thats what the reader gets. The sex is of the extremely unusual kind and is what caused all the controversy about this book upon its publication. The defense of the book by other authors like Ginsberg and Mailer is insightful for the light it sheds on Beat values which will never be mistaken for middle American values, nevertheless the book won its right to exist and remains amazingly popular among retrobeats. The court case is usually summarized in the preface of editions of the book, sort of like a cartoon to prime you for the feature. Weirder writing you will be hard pressed to find. A summary of the book is not a reasonable request but I will say there are some good scenes(\\"they are rebuilding the city again....\\") which reveal a state of mind, or an orientation to reality that anyone who has experienced a hangover will be able to comprehend. Be American, assert your rights as a reader and read this un-American manifesto destructo. Its a gas.	2001-09-21
US	45344448	RM8FUM5F2JFXH	0140186107	736714281	A Fringe of Leaves (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Upon unknown shores cast	Patrick White writes like a castaway from the Victorian era. His novels are long and full of real characters and the society and civilization of which they are a part and from which they come is equally real. Each character possesses a fully developed history, and the story as a whole progress from one point to another. And in the process people are changed by the experience. If that sounds old fashioned to you, well, it is old fashioned but those are values that some readers miss and for those readers these novels. I don't want to make White sound too antiquated though for his themes are very contemporary ,or timeless, as his themes are those that don't go out of style. This is my favorite of his novels. In A Fringe of Leaves(c.1973) White tells a shipwreck story upon the shores of an as yet uncolonised Australia. The characters who survive the shipwreck are then captured by Aborigines and must adapt to a lifestyle quite unlike the one left behind in fair old England. White uses this tale to examine civilization first by showing his characters in it and then by showing his characters as they appear stripped of it.....in only a fringe of leaves. The examination is quite a thorough and engaging one. The novel feels Victorian partly because it is set in that time (or before) but it only retains the best of that periods use of the form. White himself is Australian(and one who has won many awards, Nobel included, and to many he is the best they have so far produced) and so his study of England is tinged with an insight reserved for the ousider or in his case the postcolonial. The shipwreck portion of the book is only about 150 pages or so near the end of a 500 page plus novel. It takes patience to get to the exciting part of the story but once you are there you will want to read that section more than once. In those blindingly intense pages the characters cling to but a few delicate and sacred strands of belief to keep the savage world from totally adopting them. The aftermath portion of the book is equally interesting.termath portion of the book is equally interesting.	2001-09-19
US	45344448	R1K0PAHZU1L8M2	0679768165	122781389	The First Man	Books	4	42	44	N	N	a stranger to himself	Albert Camus. I have always liked his books, especially The Plague. My favorite part of that book was not necessarily the conversations between the characters but the moments of solitude where the sensual beauty of the world is silently looked upon. Reading The First Man I found a book by Camus that I prefer to his novels and stories because in this unfinished autobiography you get the feeling you are listening to the loneliest man on earth. It is sad, but it is heartwarming, this is Camus alone and what is important to Camus stands out like it does nowhere else. In other words this is Camus outside the context we normally encounter him in which is the turbulent intellectual debates in France of the 40's and 50's. Camus never believed in the politics of the French left in regards to the Arab countries and the future course of leadership for those nations which were his home from a very early age and where this autobiographical novel takes place. Camus believed in an alliance of European and Arab peoples that would rule together. You cannot help but think Camus was perhaps trying to come to terms with his own identity which was a combination of both places, and perhaps an uneasy combination. In some ways he reminds me of T.E. Lawrence in that his ultimate vision was always at odds with almost everyone elses. Both were ultimately very lonely figures. This book concentrates on the childhood years but since we all know what the future held for Camus it is all the more moving. And that feeling for nature which required no identity and had none of its own it seems was there from the beginning.	2001-09-19
US	45344448	R3OMC818GDNBX5	0140441735	891100811	Rameau's Nephew and D'Alembert's Dream (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Waiter, theres a Gadfly in my Perrier	If ever there was a cafe novel this is it though it is not really a novel as it consists mainly of dialogue or a dialectic between(perhaps) the two sides of Diderot himself. It is very funny and its all very staged to be that way of course. It makes fun of what passes for reason as this was The Age of Reason and so it has been called a precursor to the romantic movement but still what it most values is cleverness and that seems to fit very well with the age it comes from. Chock full of witty chat, and anti establishment(accepted views) banter in the Candide to Celine tradition of French letters, Rameau's Nephew plays devils advocate to an entire epoch . What is most appealing about this is the earthy idleness which is the center the wandering intelligence(s) roam around. It is a liberating feeling to read a book which challenges a whole societys agenda and self view. It is interesting to see that this is the tradition Celine and Beckett inherited and furthered(well, used) in their own way. A sort of gleeful anti utopian pessimism seems the attitude to adopt if one wants to keep ones dignity in the face of society's sometimes ludicrous efforts to maintain the appearance of civilization . Of course the greatest cafe novel is Man Without Qualities but that is just too long to read at one sitting. Check please, garcon.	2001-09-19
US	45344448	RDEYNQI5P6EJJ	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	3	3	N	N	In Another Time, In Another Place	This book is a spell, 100 years long but its never broken. I've heard the term magic realism a million times but never have heard it defined in any way that includes more than one book at a time. Every Latin American writer is very different. Perhaps the term was useful when the Latin boom occurred(as a way of referring to a new group of writers) but now it seems kind of meaningless. This book is magical though in that everything from natural phenomenon to supernatural phenomenon is told in the same river long sentences and every unlikely thing seems perfectly natural. The realism part is perhaps the fact that Garcia-Marquez is addressing very real issues like History though with a very unreal fable. You can enjoy this as a kind of imaginative feast which takes you into a kind of Midsummer Nights Dream of a world and you can let yourself just let it all flow by and through your mind like a dream some poet is transmitting to you directly which is a highly recommended way of enjoying this, as art. Or you can pay mind to the themes, mostly tragic, that run through this and realize that the reason the author chose to write in such a way was to supply his world with a continuity, a story, that his country did not provide. Any way you read it some of the events told will remain in memory long after the book has been loaned to someone else(the arrival of ice to the village). It is a beautiful book. It seems light while you are reading it but the power of the book builds and builds and the ending is quite remarkable. Easily one of the top ten books of the last fifty years if not one hundred.	2001-09-18
US	45344448	R6GBSHNBKUY9M	0553211684	590612959	Tess of the d'Urbervilles (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	the Wessex lass	I think Thomas Hardy is an interesting mixture of romantic poet and social realist novelist although his dramas take place in primarily rural settings. The poetic strain in Hardy's temperament makes him romanticize some of the same things the romantic poets did. For instance few settings in his work are more powerfully evocative than a ruin. And his sense that we are at the mercy of both nature and our own emotions makes reading a Hardy novel a bit like reading romantic poetry. So if you like romantic poetry especially the bleaker of those poems you will like Hardy's novels. Tess was made into a great film by Roman Polanski in 1979(and another more recent film version appeared on A&amp;E) and it is hard for a Victorian novel to compete with that kind of entertainment but what the novel has that the movie versions do not is Hardy's descriptions of landscape. You may remember a scene from the (Polanski)movie when Tess is walking through a field and as beautiful as that scene was visually it is even more beautiful to read Hardy describe it poetically linking Tess to nature in a very sensuous prose passage. Hardy is not known for his optimism ( most romantics aren't after all so very optimistic) and both his prose and poetry seem to seek out the starkest surrondings and settings to offset and emphasize the fleeting nature of those rare moments of beauty. If you like spending time in the country this novel is a kind of hike back in time and into the countryside where men and women live out their days affected by forces they cannot altogether explain and that conspire in ways that do not lead down the rosiest of paths. Most of the men in this novel are weak, but Tess's strength which is perhaps linked to her heritage makes this an unusual and powerful story. She is perhaps the best bit of poetry Hardy ever came up with. She is certainly the strongest thing ever to appear in a Hardy landscape.	2001-09-18
US	45344448	RMDT76SYGTYP6	014018094X	249326013	The Nigger of the Narcissus (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Conrad's first masterpiece	I read this in one sitting on a very dark skied rainy afternoon in an attic which looked like the interior of a ship and I was riveted by it, truly amazed by this tale which was at least in part based in fact. Conrad had written a couple of minor novels and some stories before this but this was his first masterpiece and remains his best tale of the sea, though he wrote other good ones none of them approach the power of this one. There is not only a great telling of a perilous holding-on-by-the-skin-of- your-teeth tale of a ship in peril but also a figure on board whose presence has an unsettling effect upon the men. While the ship sails on calm waters the crew and captain all appear to us as individuals only united by the fact that they all walk on the same decks, they are seen as unique presences and they all have their own reaction to the strangers &quot;condition&quot; which is an apparent illness. As the storm approaches and the ship and crew begins its stunningly told fight for life the individuals all merge as it were into one entity sharing the common task of sailors versus the sea. As the men try to save the ship the strangers presence is forgotten and the captain himself is mysteriously quiet as the men simply do what they must to survive the storm. Once the ship is no longer in peril the uneasy balance of personalities resumes and once again the stranger is suspect. Fascinating and exciting story. Elements of both mystery and high adventure combining here to give one not only a wildly enjoyable read but one which leaves ones mind opened in some way. Heart of Darkness and Lord Jim were Conrads next efforts, but don't miss this one. The prologue to this has Conrad setting down his artistic credo but read it only after the tale is told. That way your mind can absorb in its own way this excitingly told tale.	2001-09-14
US	45344448	RN0R2RMCTQHJ6	030681028X	795489382	Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton: A Biography	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Many Cultures, Many Selves	Burton is not your typical English hero. In fact he is so complex he defies any easy description. I think of him like a very intricately woven and patterned rug and one that perhaps in the end has no meaning. Burton was a strange mixture of occident and orient and one suspects he had only one loyalty and that was to himself. He was not so much an explorer as he was a traveler. He could learn languages quickly but he also was greatly attracted to religions and not only the major ones but the minor ones as well. If he was out for personal glory he could have picked more fruitful routes through the continents he traveled upon. I'm sure he wasn't immune to glory or else he wouldn't have attempted to find the mountains of the moon(souce of the Nile) but I think glory was not the main task he set for himself. I think he collected realities like others collect spears or knives and he collected those things too. Burton was a master at disguise and he fit so well into other lands because I think he really became like those whose land he was in. I don't think it was a game of pretend. He is famous for seeing Mecca when few white men ever had. The episode that makes for the best reading is another journey to another forbidden city in Africa called Harar. What makes this worth reading is not so much Burtons achievements but his personality. He is like some character who someone invented and perhaps someone did, Burton.	2001-09-14
US	45344448	RTLDVJ1KAQUVE	0684843323	156249009	The Complete Short Stories of Ernest Hemingway: The Finca Vigia Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	yes, that's how it is	No other writer has ever said so much with so few words. This is the best short story writer that ever lived. The novels are great too, especially those first two. The Hemingway style is often talked about but you cannot understand it fully until you have studied these stories. Hemingway often said the greater part of his writing was elimination and the discerning reader will greatly appreciate all he has done to give us such crystal sentences of such sensual and emotional power. They are subtle these stories but that is their power. Hemingway does not rely on tricks as say a nineteenth-century short story writer might, and he does not give you a little moral at the end. His stories work so well for what they refuse to do and that is to tell you how to react or to set you up so that you see just what the author wants you to see. Hemingway wants to show life as we live it and so all the artistry of the previous century is stripped away. Hemingway gives you an experience raw and sometimes the experience is not fully interpretable, and perhaps the truest thing and only thing is simply the emotional feeling the experience leaves us with. Many of his stories are about experiences many have had like the end of our first love and Hemingway tells it so simply and perfectly you will be left saying to yourself,&quot;yes, thats how it is.&quot; I don't think too many short story writers are essential reading but there is one who is, Hemingway.	2001-09-14
US	45344448	R2WIMEFQJDKKSY	0306803755	561079408	Gustave Courbet (A Da Capo paperback)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Man with the Pipe	&quot;COURBET, without ideals and without religion.&quot; Courbet is said to have used this phrase occasionally on his writing-paper, surmounted by a drawing of two crossed pipes. And he was rarely seen without his pipe. Critics try to make him out as some kind of social revolutionary(painter of social realism) but as Mack tells it he did not define himself by the labels others coined. Courbet, however he may have been interpreted, was the one man revolution which challenged the academies and Salon system of showing art in France. He is a great and colorful figure and his story is very exciting to follow(complete with tales of beer and Vendome toppling). This biography is a very enjoyable telling of Courbet's life and the history of France at the time.  There is plenty of detailed analysis of paintings here and the approach is scholarly and full of facts allowing all the various interpretations of Courbet's work to gently coexist but there is enough story here to attract the more casual follower of the visual arts as well. My copy of this has black and white reproductions of the paintings( not sure why they even bothered) but they put them all at the very end so they don't get in the way. You will want to see the paintings as they are discussed so save your money and buy a book of beautiful reproductions to sift through as you read. And get yourself a clay pipe to assist you in your viewing.	2001-09-11
US	45344448	R2O27UQVAJ8RDC	030681028X	795489382	Captain Sir Richard Francis Burton: A Biography	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Devil's Spy	Well if you are looking for something different. Burton is different. Anyone who has done a little reading about Victorian era travelers has heard his name mentioned many times, and anyone who has a copy of 1001 Arabian Nights may check to see if it's the Burton translation, mine is. Burton isn't better known as an explorer because he didn't make any of the important discoveries(unless you give him credit for finding the source of the Nile), he only made the most interesting discoveries because he was the most interesting of the travelers. It all began when he was stationed in colonial India and took a sick leave to travel and write his first book Goa Goa, about that famous sea port. He was not made famous by that book nor his other early books though his growing list of escapades were perhaps making him infamous. One of his assignments as a soldier was to explore the Indian sex industry resulting in an exaustive and detailed study of that topic, too detailed for his superiors taste. Later he would be famous for introducing the Kama Sutra to Victoria's England. The adventure that makes for the most exciting reading is his journey incognito to Mecca which had not yet been visited by someone not of the faith. The price for being caught would have been death. The cover of the book shows why Burton was not, he was a master of blending in and his mind which was an ever expanding archive of both western and eastern languages and religions was quite an asset as well. He was a collector of information all his life and the books he wrote sometimes suffer from a glut of facts but this biography gives you everything you need to know, unless you are a collector of cross continental minutia. His wife Isabel apparently burnt his unpublished manuscripts when he died because she did not want his already questionable reputation compromised further and it probably would have been then. But damn. He was buried in a stone version of the tent that he used in his African explorations. Acertain kind of genius he was for walking the line between and among all cultures.	2001-09-10
US	45344448	R1FZIP8SS4AU3N	0811212645	890157892	The Illustrious House of Ramires (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Cervantes' Heir	The books of Eca De Queiros are not easy to find. I read about him a long time ago and then slowly began picking the books up as I found them one by one. Three so far but there are others. This is the most polished of the three but the other two I have, The Relic(now available)&amp; The City and the Mountains(availability uncertain), are really good too. I have to say my favorite is The City and the Mountains because it so funny. This novelist is funny &amp; not many 19th century novelists are. In The City and the Mountains those two locations are compared by the wealthy protaganist to see which one suits him better, neither location is spared this novelists eye for comedy which one can tell gave him a lot of pleasure, the laughs in this book make you glad to be human. The Illustrious House of Ramirez is a more serious work. It has some funny parts but the comedy is of a higher nature. Since HISTORY is one of its topics both national identity and personal identity are subjected to this fine writers sympathetic ridicule but you feel the tragedy of those topics too while you are laughing at how clever the whole plot is. It is a grander work, further reaching than the one I mentioned as my favorite, and will probably appeal to more readers who want significant, not just hilarious, fare. However, if you read Illustrious House and still want more find the others too. Eca De Queiroz writes as well as any other 19th century writer judging by the translations I've read. Of them I think he is most often compared to Flaubert, he certainly sees through all the passing fads and illusions of the day in the way that one did. As for the Relic it is a very clever plot which hinges on a find which draws into question our religious heritage. More HISTORY but unless you can enjoy the opulent prose for its own sake its kind of a one idea book. Clever idea though it is. I think it said above that this novelist was for people with large foreign lit. collections. I will agree with that. But if you've read all the big names at least once you will just appreciate this rare find all the more.ut if you've read all the big names at least once you will just appreciate this rare find all the more.	2001-09-10
US	45344448	R29JYUWY9KJY6O	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Journey into the immensity and power of this short work	Every time I read this I am always amazed at how much has been accomplished in so short a span of pages. And the effect of this work does not diminish with repeat readings. So if you have already read this and most people have read it again. I gaurantee you won't regret it. This is probably the most perfectly executed work of Conrads career and that is saying a lot. Very few authors wrote a greater number of works that remain classics and  relevant than he. The primitive world has a voice in this book as do colonial administrators and we even get to hear from that one who has gone off the edge of the map of humanity and into his own realm of darkness but the voice dominating this book is Marlowes'. He tells the tale aboard a ship in safe harbor in the London docks but his voice takes you on quite a journey. From the very first scene described in the administration offices with strange black clad women figures sewing we know this is going to be like no tale we have heard before. The work as a whole is so perfect it makes one think of music as the only comparison. Still no other tale like it exists. If you haven't picked this one up in a while do so and listen to Marlowe tell it once again. Listen to the music and feel the power of the primitive pulse through you as you journey toward the heart of an immense darkness.	2001-09-10
US	45344448	R3SIWJ2TROFXYH	0811212645	890157892	The Illustrious House of Ramires (Revived Modern Classic)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Cervantes' Heir	The books of Eca De Queiros are not easy to find. I read about him a long time ago and then slowly began picking the books up as I found them one by one. Three so far but there are others. This is the most polished of the three but the other two I have, The Relic(now available)&amp; The City and the Mountains(availability uncertain), are really good too. I have to say my favorite is The City and the Mountains because it so funny. This novelist is funny &amp; not many 19th century novelists are. In The City and the Mountains those two locations are compared by the wealthy protaganist to see which one suits him better, neither location is spared this novelists eye for comedy which one can tell gave him a lot of pleasure, the laughs in this book make you glad to be human. The Illustrious House of Ramirez is a more serious work. It has some funny parts but the comedy is of a higher nature. Since HISTORY is one of its topics both national identity and personal identity are subjected to this fine writers sympathetic ridicule but you feel the tragedy of those topics too while you are laughing at how clever the whole plot is. It is a grander work, further reaching than the one I mentioned as my favorite, and will probably appeal to more readers who want significant, not just hilarious, fare. However, if you read Illustrious House and still want more find the others too. Eca De Queiroz writes as well as any other 19th century writer judging by the translations I've read. Of them I think he is most often compared to Flaubert, he certainly sees through all the passing fads and illusions of the day in the way that one did. As for the Relic it is a very clever plot which hinges on a find which draws into question our religious heritage. More HISTORY but unless you can enjoy the opulent prose for its own sake its kind of a one idea book. Clever idea though it is. I think it said above that this novelist was for people with large foreign lit. collections. I will agree with that. But if you've read all the big names at least once you will just appreciate this rare find all the more.	2001-09-10
US	45344448	R1C6NU2OT7WDL4	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Journey into the immensity and power of this short work	Every time I read this I am always amazed at how much has been accomplished in so short a span of pages. And the effect of this work does not diminish with repeat readings. So if you have already read this and most people have read it again. I gaurantee you won't regret it. This is probably the most perfectly executed work of Conrads career and that is saying a lot. Very few authors wrote a greater number of works that remain classics and  relevant than he. The primitive world has a voice in this book as do colonial administrators and we even get to hear from that one who has gone off the edge of the map of humanity and into his own realm of darkness but the voice dominating this book is Marlowes'. He tells the tale aboard a ship in safe harbor in the London docks but his voice takes you on quite a journey. From the very first scene described in the administration offices with strange black clad women figures sewing we know this is going to be like no tale we have heard before. The work as a whole is so perfect it makes one think of music as the only comparison. Still no other tale like it exists. If you haven't picked this one up in a while do so and listen to Marlowe tell it once again. Listen to the music and feel the power of the primitive pulse through you as you journey toward the heart of an immense darkness.	2001-09-10
US	45344448	RLMBUTX8USSCK	0140180923	115107087	Lord Jim (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Tuan Jim	(...)Conrad knows how to tell a story and few have ever been told as well as this one. Lord Jim the character is very appealing but also appealing are the sea and island settings that Conrad describes so well. Those hard to resist settings as well as the tale itself populated by a host of memorable minor characters all conspire to make this an irresistable yarn. It appeals as an adventure but there is plenty to capture the discerning substantive mind as well. Conrad offers a tale about a young man who wishes to be a hero.(...)	2001-09-10
US	45344448	RLIDYDXGFLFSF	087905123X	428718891	Mornings in Mexico	Books	5	19	22	N	N	unique travel piece	D.H. Lawrence writes like a painter would write were he to. What is most real in the writings of Lawrence is the physical world, and of course the body. Mornings in Mexico is really a slight work but with a charm to it. There is a relating of facts (especially about Indian life and thought) that you would expect from a travel piece but the charm is in the kind of easy sauntering pace that the narrative keeps. That feeling that it is vacation time and there really is no hurry. The house he lives in for his stay in Mexico and the surrounding markets and open fields in which he walks and the balcony he stands on in the morning with parrot are all pleasantly described. It feels like a place you want to be. The way time away should feel. There is a slight mournful air to the fact that the Americans are beginning to spoil the place, it is as if the Americans have brought that intruder time itself into this timeless land. It's not so much the details you will remember as the overall feel of the work. And Lawrence himself. And here he seems at ease, searching as always but not desperately so, which is a nice Lawrence to spend time with.	2001-09-07
US	45344448	R2NTC40T7LT49L	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Flaubert on Flaubert	As well fed as he was on French culture Flaubert rarely wrote about anyone resembling himself or the high cultural atmosphere of which he was a part. He was a man who had incredible insight into himself(read Sentimental Education)and yet he chose to write about people who had very little insight into themselves. Madame Bovary is a highly polished piece of work with only one major flaw which is the inconsistent narration(the story is first told by Emma's husband but then abandons him). Flaubert writes scene after scene which feels just right and you begin to be enthralled by it. The France of Madame Bovary is a backwater country town of no import and Madame Bovary is just another member of an inconsequential set of beings, and yet we are intrigued by this woman and the village and its population of minor characters. Flaubert's greatness is that he makes her seem important to us despite her humble station in life and her ridiculous questing for true love. Ah, perhaps that is what Flaubert saw in this character, his own romantic longing which would never be satisfied. But by using a common character such as Emma pitted against an equally common setting to explore his own romanticism he shows all the more clearly to himself his own tragedy(and the tragedy of all romantics), which is the recogntion that the romantic take on life is an aberrant one which sits uncomfortably among the very set laws of cold nature. So what we have here is a romantic dissecting himself and the effect is unmistakable. A moving kind of self knowledge rarely encountered, a hidden confession. The incompetent doctor who performs an incompetent surgery on the peasants mal formed foot supports an already subtly felt feeling that life despite the news of the day that the enlightenment has arrived is no easy friend to reason either. I suppose this is a work of social realism or it could be called one but whatever you call it the story exerts a strong appeal. Perhaps because it is such a completely told story, meaning Flaubert seems to have looked at Emma from every conceivable angle and the scenes are each very rich with the main theme and the minor themes complementing each other. Flaubert seems to have been able to look at his romanticism with his reason and vice versa. A struggle which is at the very heart of literature.d story, meaning Flaubert seems to have looked at Emma from every conceivable angle and the scenes are each very rich with the main theme and the minor themes complementing each other. Flaubert seems to have been able to look at his romanticism with his reason and vice versa. A struggle which is at the very heart of literature.	2001-09-07
US	45344448	R26O449QUDEX6	0679410031	569503661	The Brothers Karamazov (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	everything is permitted, so read	Where did modernism come from? Russia. I can understand why some people find Joyce's Ulysses annoying. He is a kind of show off. I think that book is unnecassarily difficult. Joyce created a structure based on Homer and Shakespeare and every other master that ever wrote and his holy house of modern fiction is filled with words spoken mostly by one character to himself. Odd, huh? Proust puts the focus of his work on one sensibility, his own, but is every trifle of his comfy existence among Counts and Countesses worthy of the focus he brings to it. Again, kind of odd. If those two books don't really sit well with you or even if they do read Dostoyevsky's masterpiece. The Brothers Karamazov is also a huge book like those later two but it's focus is wider(four + main characters, all very different)and its ultimate effect more profound. Dostoevsky's theme is nothing less than the death of God. All of his work is existential but this is the most complete exploration of the topic. &quot;If there is no God, then everything is permitted&quot;. If that sounds like a good thesis to you and you've grown tired of the drawing room that is(much of)the western canon then begin reading this. Once you begin no one will be able to distract you. I read it in college during a week long break when I was stranded on an empty campus. My favorite scenes are not the long speeches which are a bit like tracts inserted into the text but scenes like the strange dream sequence which I think the Russians do better than anyone, in fact many parts of the book leave one in a dream like delirium. Perhaps the modern was born of a long sleepless night in Russia. You will lose sleep reading this because it is long but you will have chosen the right story and storyteller, this Russian mystic will infuse your days as the characters encountered the night before whisper in your head and your dream life will be rich. I like to imagine the Russia Dostoevsky describes still exists. I think perhaps it does. Joyce is great and so is Proust, both bring a great deal of psychology to the novel and that is one thing that makes them modern. Dostoevsky is also a psychologist. Some might say a slightly more primitive one, but to some that might think civilization does not move all that quickly, if at all, Dostoevsky remains a master. His expertise: those areas of the psych that have not yet submitted to civilization. Heavy, powerful stuff that makes for great heavy nights.e is great and so is Proust, both bring a great deal of psychology to the novel and that is one thing that makes them modern. Dostoevsky is also a psychologist. Some might say a slightly more primitive one, but to some that might think civilization does not move all that quickly, if at all, Dostoevsky remains a master. His expertise: those areas of the psych that have not yet submitted to civilization. Heavy, powerful stuff that makes for great heavy nights.	2001-09-05
US	45344448	R3E1LUQEDAPV3F	0802131786	760683206	Tropic of Cancer	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Henry Miller	Henry Miller is not popular with the academic community. I think this is because there is nothing for academics to do with his books. Henry says what Henry means, there really is no need to interpret his meaning. So don't be scared off just because your instructors never mention this book. It's meant to be enjoyed outside the confines of institutions such as college anyway. Henry's point of view is the man in the street. Sometimes(most of the time) he is dealing with very basic issues like food(mostly where the next meals coming from) and sex which he likes to have often. Henry is a man perhaps limited to a few appetites but that is why he is fun to hang out with. He enthuses you with his own enthusiasms. He can be funny, depressing, and surprisingly poetic in his visions which may have been brought on by hunger or drink or just desperation to have a vision. I think the same audience that likes Kerouac will like Miller. Kerouac is also dismissed by the academy and the higher circles of learning but who cares. Both tell pretty straightforward tales about themselves trying to live the way they want. They should be read for no other reason than for the pure enjoyment they give. The movie Henry Miller(Henry and June) I think is a great character but not the Henry I know. The Henry that is narrating Tropic of Cancer is desperate and spilling over with words that are sometimes heartbreakingly honest. The movie Henry is more like a loveable clown which Henry did become later in life. Other books by Henry Miller are also very enjoyable. My favorites: The Colossus of Maroussi(about a visit to Greece), The Air-Conditioned Nightmare(travels in U.S.) and Big Sur and the Oranges of Hieronymos Bosch(about his life in that N. California idyllic spot). Read and enjoy. Screw the academy.	2001-09-05
US	45344448	R1OLYAUUPI3SUL	0060932139	104524934	The Unbearable Lightness of Being	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a now even older Europe	This book puts a somewhat lascivious grin on my face. The light touch that Kundera has is endearing and it is the perfect touch for conveying the feeling of youthful revolution under Communist oppression. Something wild seemed to have bloomed in Prague in the late sixties as it did elsewhere in other countries but in Prague it took on an especially poignant air. To read the playwrites of the time is to see that humor and satire were the weapons of the day and Kundera captures the sense of laughter in the face of tyranny which in the beginning of the book is an unseen Kafkaesque committee of spies that have settled in to rule the land. The worst part is that here the Kafkaesque is no exaggeration for neighbors and fellow workers are informing on each other(later the tyranny becomes all too real when Soviet tanks enter Prague). Kundera captures the absurdity of this moment in time as only a student of the Central European Novel can(Kundera pays homage to his favorites in Art of the Novel). Perfectly balanced on their respective tightropes are Sabrina, Teresa, Tomas, and Franz. All of them are charming. This is one of the few novels that tells many stories and each one is equally interesting. The philosophy that threads these lives together is Kundera's and there is a lot of it. It is a philosophy of the moment because at any given moment the world can change. You may not agree with every single word that his swinging brain has to offer but it is all very readable and at the very least provocative . If you do disagree with him you will find you have to admit he is an interesting person to disagree with. The sex is fun too. I would love to read a sequel to this work, and I have never said that before of any other work. One of the few contemporary works that I think deserves its reputation. Intellectual and sensual, theres a combo I can live with.	2001-09-05
US	45344448	R2J9XD6RHN2MOG	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Twin Tragedies, Love and War	This book has never exerted the same appeal to me as Sun Also Rises. Everyone agrees it is great but something about it leaves one feeling a bit confused. Hemingways editor Maxwell Perkins saw the book as a war novel and wanted Hemingway to change the ending ever so slightly to make the ending once again attest to that fact. But Hemingway didn't want to change his ending. As it is the book is about both love and war. The love scenes show how war effects even that most personal part of life. The war scenes alone make this a great book especially the Caparetto retreat where Hemingway sums up with a few brilliant scenes and some very memorable paragraphs his view on war. But during that second retreat, Frederik Henry and Catherine's retreat to Switzerland, it becomes a little less clear where Hemingway is taking the reader. It seems that he is saying war can be left behind but not life. And the overall view of life in the book seems to be that war is tragic and best avoided but life too is tragic. I think the book is made up of great parts but those parts do not add up to a clear overall impression. Perhaps Hemingway is saying that war is bad and lives touched by war are forever scarred and therefore will end badly. Perkins wanted Hemingway to have the last tragedy of the book be more directly connected to the overall tragedy, war. I think that would have made this a more coherent book but Hemingway's instinct  perhaps was right because the book transcends the war genre because of it. Perhaps the book is about life and its tragic nature and the war is just one way we become aquainted with that tragic nature, love another. Possibly. Every reader has to answer those questions for themselves.	2001-09-05
US	45344448	RS9G82AMZIQYO	0684803356	896923	For Whom the Bell Tolls	Books	5	2	3	N	N	smell of pine needles	This is a unique novel in the Hemingway collection, it has a plot. This is the longest of his novels though the easiest to describe. The Hemingway style is not as lean as in earlier works, one might even say it is pleasantly plump in comparison (as Papa himself was at the time of writing). I'll never forget my first reading of this book. One of those books you put down and just hold your breath with the memory of it all. This might best be described as Hemingway fare for non Hemingway fans. Though Hemingway fans like it too, but it will always be number three to them. The Sun Also Rises is perhaps one of the more difficult books to summarize and Hemingway's style is so new in it that the book created a buzz that has still not died down. What was not said in that first book left some feeling a bit famished. Others were intrigued by this new kind of writing that held its cards so close to its chest. In this book you get a more conventional novel of a novel though the events described in it are very powerfully told. (It is fun to see pictures of Hemingway as a reporter at this time. A world famous novelist in the field.) This book along with A Farewell to Arms prove no American knew better how to convey by written words that nasty busines of war better than Hemingway. Robert Jordan is one of the least talked about Hemingway characters ever. Perhaps because he is a character invented to serve a plot. You will love this book of fighting and love in the Spanish mountains. John Donne himself I think would have proudly read and enjoyed this.	2001-09-05
US	45344448	RJB4FJ9O3F4Q0	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hemingway's Europe	No other American has written better about what it is like to be an American in Europe. Hemingway seemed to belong there. The Paris memoir A Moveable Feast is a beautiful account of those early days when Hemingway was writing his early stories. The Sun Also Rises is something quite different. Not a memoir but a novel. And a great one. Great not just because it describes 1920's Paris, which is no doubt part of it's appeal, but because it describes Americans living abroad in the aftermath of WWI. Though it does not specifically address the war, the style of life and attitude that these characters exemplify make them members of what Gertrude Stein called &quot;the lost generation&quot;. That phrase defined a generation and Hemingway's book was the best comment on that phrase and his generation. The American characters of Sun Also Rises all have their reasons for being in Europe. Part of the reason is that WWI disrupted all the old notions and fabric of society and Hemingway underlines this by showing them all in a state of aimless drift. With Jake Barnes Hemingway shows an American who understands Europeans and is at home in their company. He is a new kind of consciousness, not a representative one, but one that seems to have an understanding of life that other Americans do not. Jake's unique understanding has led him to the formulation of a code(expatriots code) which is not altogether explained but one which allows him to be at home in all cultures and deal with trying situations very well(most of the time). But Jake too is wounded. Jakes presence attracts an unusual group of friends and hangers on(some American, some European). Those who understand the code get along well with Jake and those who do not find themselves in conflict with him. Hemingway's A Sun Also Rises stands in interesting contrast to Fitzgerald's Great Gatsby. While Fitzgerald goes for a mythic rendering of American life , Hemingway describes a new kind of ground that only he occupies. Hemingway brings an understanding to things which is not specifically American but his own hard won ground. Fiction writing one imagines was his way of defining that ground. &quot;You must get to know the values,&quot; as the Count says. Each character presents an almost separate plot line. The book begins with Cohn's story but several other stories intertwine along the way as new characters arrive on the scene. Jake is the center around which all the action revolves. Although an awful lot of action revolves around Brett as well. Every one has their turn with Brett. The sad thing is that the two who should be together are Jake and Brett and yet they can't be. And that seems to be the overall feeling and theme of the book and perhaps the deepest interpretation of the oft used phrase &quot;lost generation&quot;. The war seems to have cheated a whole generation out of its innocence, and with that it's ability to love, perhaps. The bullfight segment which is very exciting is a kind of moment when all the characters try to in their own way fill their lives with something. If you want a happier book about Paris read Hemingway's A Moveable Feast instead.ings an understanding to things which is not specifically American but his own hard won ground. Fiction writing one imagines was his way of defining that ground. &quot;You must get to know the values,&quot; as the Count says. Each character presents an almost separate plot line. The book begins with Cohn's story but several other stories intertwine along the way as new characters arrive on the scene. Jake is the center around which all the action revolves. Although an awful lot of action revolves around Brett as well. Every one has their turn with Brett. The sad thing is that the two who should be together are Jake and Brett and yet they can't be. And that seems to be the overall feeling and theme of the book and perhaps the deepest interpretation of the oft used phrase &quot;lost generation&quot;. The war seems to have cheated a whole generation out of its innocence, and with that it's ability to love, perhaps. The bullfight segment which is very exciting is a kind of moment when all the characters try to in their own way fill their lives with something. If you want a happier book about Paris read Hemingway's A Moveable Feast instead.	2001-09-04
US	45344448	R2WM4ZZGSH3HVC	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The American	No more perfect American book exists. Jay Gatsby pursues the American dream with a single minded zeal and the closer he gets to his dream the emptier he is.  The greatness of the book is both in this theme and in the way Fitzgerald makes Gatsby stand for all of us Americans. In his later works Fitzgerald falters but here every last detail is in its proper place. The narrator Nick is the perfect voice for this story. Through his eyes we may see that Gatsby is not all that Gatsby wants to be but like Nick we let ourselves be seduced anyway.  The most superficial creature in this book, Daisy, is the object of Gatsby's lifelong obsession. She is about as weak as that flower and no more complex. Only Gatsby with his undying ability to dream which is unmatched by any character in fiction and the reason we all love him can imagine she is anything more than the common flower of her namesake. Everything functions and happens exactly as it should. No plot, I suggest, can be repeated by more readers. I put this in a tie with Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises for greatest book by an American. Hemingway's book is equally great though for quite different reasons. I think in his next book Tender is the Night Fitzgerald is trying to cover Hemingway's terrain but unlike Hemingway Fitzgerald does not really belong in Europe. Hemingway uncovers what it is to be American by showing Americans outside America and in contrast to Europeans. Fitzgerald never brings his Americans abroad in contact with anything but each other.  But in this book he is brilliant. I just wish he would have stayed put.	2001-09-03
US	45344448	R1X3C9UE9AC43M	0060830328	517744417	Great Short Works of Stephen Crane (Perennial Classic)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	the black rider	A most magnificent piece of war journalism The Red Badge of Courage was crafted from interviews with Civil War veterans. Crane wasn't born yet when the Civil War was actually happening but by some strange feat of the imagination he takes you there. You've probably read this at some point in your school days but read it as an adult too. The prose is actually less literary journalism and more a highly crafted and stylized subjective telling of the war experience through Henry Fleming's eyes. Crane was admired by Conrad(who called him the &quot;best of the boys&quot; and who like Crane is also called a literary impressionist) and Hemingway whose own prose and journalism owe much to him. The short stories(&quot;Open Boat&quot;one of the best sea episodes ever described) are also excellent and since Crane only lived 29 years this volume contains all his important work. His work was groundbreaking and his style has an immediate quality to it that leaves one with the feeling of having lived through the experiences he describes. In his short life he constantly sought the extremes. The medium length work Maggie describes a prostitutes existence and in true Crane style does not spare any of the gritty details though again it is not strict objectivity which marks the Crane style. In my mind he belongs alongside Conrad as one of the great originals who were writing at a very high point in literary history. Some would say they have not been matched. There is still much in their styles which has never been improved upon.	2001-09-02
US	45344448	R39CGQQLLL5NA6	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	5	6	N	N	As I Lay Reading	Just as Ahab and Ishmael and the characters in Moby Dick grapple with chaos(and a particularly American brand of chaos)in the form of a white whale(the symbolism of which is never altogether clear), characters in Faulkner grapple with a chaos in the form of a county which no one can pronounce. Only Faulkner himself seems to have been able to speak the strange Indian name of that county. That invented land is one where the American brand of experience is played out but no one is ever completely at home in it, chaos is always reasserting its dominant role over every human order. Faulkner is a modern. And our, so far, greatest one. This book is the place to start. It is experimental but not too very difficult. The story is told through a rotating cast of voices and the effect is tremendously rich. These characters are not necessarily brilliant but sometimes the things they say are poetry. The Darl character is a particualr favorite of mine. I want to quote a few of his lines but don't want to ruin your chance at finding them yourself at the proper time in the proper context. Read this and you will thank yourself and William for the experience.	2001-09-02
US	45344448	R2P7JAZN27LTPY	0805210555	920707464	Franz Kafka: The Complete Stories	Books	5	33	36	N	N	more estranged than any stranger	Kafka can be a difficult figure to approach for some. His presence looms for some readers as foreboding as that strange unapproachable structure in The Castle looms for the character in that book. One way to get around this is to learn a little about Kafka's own life, especially his relationship with his father. And also to learn that his economical &amp; concise way with language he learned as a student of law and his fascination to the point of paranoia with bureaucracies of various kinds he may have picked up in his career as an office worker in an insurance company. Kafka may never become all together human to some readers. To those who share his particular temperament, however, he will seem very human and become a favorite though a kind of quiet one that lurks in the fringes of your bookcase. These stories are a great introduction. Though they are all prose works in some cases they seem to possess qualities more often seen in parables than in twentieth-century prose ie: use of symbols &amp; layers of possible meanings being more evocative(though sparse) than specific. His work is certainly pessimistic, his landscapes are oblique, and chances are you will have your own way of looking at Kafka the more you read(and there are a vast array of ways to interpret his work). One interesting reader, Jean Paul Sartre, characterized Kafka's work as &quot;the impossibility of transcendence&quot;. His exaggerated worlds(Swift was one of his own favorite authors) do provide interesting glimpses into that very often written about terrain alienation but few have ever delved into it so deeply. After Kafka you may be lead down one of the more interesting paths in the history of literature which includes Nabokov, Borges, Cortazar, Calvino and many many others.	2001-09-02
US	45344448	RCGHK9LVBAX0L	014044176X	198612908	A Hero of Our Time (Classics)	Books	4	6	10	N	N	duel on the steppe	The Russians seem to have loved Byron. This work is really several stories and all enjoyable. I'm told by a friend that Lermontov is better known as a poet and I want to investigate that lead but this book is a highly entertaining introduction to this little read Russian. The locations are exotic, the Russian wild lands known as the steppe, and the hero travels by horse from one to the next. The book appeals as an adventure but the actual character of the hero is very complex, not at all like the usual adventure hero and thats because these are Byronic times when amourous endeavors are just momentary diversions to relieve one of ones own solitude and duels are really the only pursuits that awaken one fully. I was surprised how good this was. I don't think it is essential reading for anyone but if you read it you will smile knowingly every time you think about it or hear it mentioned. A Byronic smile. I'll get back with you after I have read the poetry.	2001-09-02
US	45344448	RRH578XGH8ZJK	0679722025	873992849	A Bend in the River	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Without a home	V.S. Naipaul is one of the most talented modern authors we have. It is a shame that his reputation is often tarnished by those who sense something less than sympathy in his depictions of the postcolonial communities and realities he describes. He can be funny but in the same way any novelist can be funny in describing human situations, if there is satire it is a sympathetic satire as he himself was born into the situation he describes. Naipaul's work describes the often absurd situations that arise when a people no longer have a solid societal structure to rely on, he describes situations where identity and reality are split between two or more cultures. In his early sixties books he does this in a profound and comic way. House for Mr. Biswas is his classic from this period. In the 1970's the realities Naipaul describes no longer are presented comically, rather they reflect the tragedy of the very real conflicts in the world at the time. A Bend in the River is his classic from this period. Guerrillas(1975) is also good though. A Bend in the River(1979) gets a lot of attention because it has so often been compared to Conrad and there is some reason for this most notably being the fact that Naipaul writes in a very clear prose that recalls that lucid minded Englishman who also saw into the heart of the reality of the African situation. This book is very bleak but beautifully written. You will be haunted by some of the images such as the white moths fluttering, symbols of the insecure condition of all life. Naipaul deserves to be appreciated by a wider audience. This book should be on every individuals syllabus who wishes to be aware of the great authors not just of the past but of the present.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R26NCW84ZLD0ZG	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Day In the Life	The best introduction to James Joyce is James Joyce. He did everything so well he only had to each thing once. One short story collection: Dubliners. And one great novel: Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. On the basis of these two works alone Joyce would be legend. But he did not stop there, he went further than anyone had ever gone with literature and wrote a new kind of novel, Ulysses. And after that another new kind of novel, Finnegans Wake. Ulysses is a work which every reader must face once in his life. Or twice. No other novel so sums up the reason novels are written. Ulysses is an epoch about culture but told lyrically through two characters, the familiar Stephen Dedalus and Leopold Bloom. Both will win you over. Dedalus for his scholars apprenticeship at life, and Bloom for his well versed walk through the very reaches of modern life. Irish this is in the very best sense. The language is real but the words are not coming from everyday talk but from the inside, the waking consciousness' dialogue with itself. That is the magic of this book. It is completely original born from nothing but inspiration. It is a great move to have Stephen, the character from his last novel, collide with Bloom, this new novels creation. Joyce has the teachers good will to introduce you to the new work via an old companion, brilliant stroke. The modern world really makes no sense is Stephens Tragedy and Blooms comedy. If you are a young man you will probably share Stephen's sentiments and if you are beyond youth you will share Bloom's. Or both which makes it all the more wonderful. No book is more insightful in leading to an understanding of the western predicament and no book has yet come close. Joyce writes in a sometimes hard to decipher prose but it is all worth it. In the end you will feel you have collided with the one who understood first what it was to be a modern life. Make it easy on yourself and read this after Dubliners and Portrait of the Artist as a Young man. Forthe best readers there is no other way. As for Finnegans Wake, I am still preparing.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R6XIH6NKESDWV	0679761640	476200848	The Makioka Sisters	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Modern Way	This book holds a very special place in my reading history. It opened my mind in the subtlest of ways. It is a book about the meeting of cultures, east and west, and to my surprise neither side wins. Tanizaki shows that blindly revering the past can yield fatal results, but so can blindly flying into the future. Tanizaki's sentiments lie somewhere inbetween. The novel is longer than most and moves at a pace which reveres eastern tradition while assimilating western forms, in short, this is a perfectly poised work that does not sacrifice anything to short term gain nor martyr itself for some unwinnable cause. Tanizaki is a master at a game that his whole culture is (and less obviously ours) is playing. Neither way is completely correct and neither way wrong. The characters in this magnificent novel all walk in between. In some ways the novel belongs to the twenties in which it was written, in other ways it belongs to us.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R3NE7UV1MO7ZHQ	0394752848	317320204	Hopscotch: A Novel (Pantheon Modern Writers Series)	Books	4	10	17	N	N	a surreal/boheme postmodern picaresque	I initially read this book after reading all of Cortazars short stories and immediately found myself at home in Cortazar's bohemian world of books and conversations and meditations about the nature of things. But after a few hours in the hypertextual space of Hopscotch where ideas are more real than people I was getting homesick for a good solid plot and some good solid characters that interact with each other on something more than just an abstract level. Really the only memorable character is Horacio himself because we only know La Maga, his mistress, through his endless musings about her and the other characters are just names. The novel is really therefore just paragraphs of thoughts and the thoughts are not really strung together into any consistent philosophy in fact the thoughts are just offered as little flashes of cleverness that don't really move the characters that have them nor the world around them, the ideas do not have any productive or conducive value, they just serve to stave off boredom.  I suppose you could read the book as the first postmodern text because it does seem to exist on a plane outside of historical process and context.  It is kind of thrilling to experience the liberation the formal arrangement that Hopscotch presents until one realizes all the jumping around leads nowhere. But then perhaps that is the point.<BR>      Salman Rushdie has called this the best book of the century. I think Rushdie perhaps reads some of his own story into  Cortazars. Both men were exiles from countries with troubled histories and both write in European metropolises. They both write very postmodern novels about the fragmented nature of identity and the difficulty of wholeness which in their case is compounded by the divided nature of their own personal histories.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R16R4U2W8DE8RF	0679725741	714023087	Man's Fate (La Condition Humaine)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Condition: Red	Andre Malraux became France's Minister of Culture but before that he wrote this and everything about his prose style and characters are so very civilized. Thats what makes the events described here all the more shocking. From Old Man Gisors, the opium smoking oracle, to the young Chinese student revolutionaries to the French gambler to the assassin everything is told in so controlled a manner as to make these things seem impossible to happen. But they do. This is China on the eve of the Communist Revolution. The French have been busily at work doing business in the ancient land when suddenly the political climate changes. Each character is affected by these events in very personal ways. Malraux gets to the very core of each. His end to tell each persons story without prejudice to which side one is on. A very interesting technique. We understand all sides of the equation at once. Arresting, breathtaking fiction. Every character is real. Malraux did not rise to this level of performance again. Read this for the history and for the level eye which Malraux brings to it.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R1J67Q6Y2QWBHL	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	2	3	N	N	spirit animating modern being	Hesse was not very comfortable with the existence he found. His early books show unhappy and disillusioned youth struggle and find nothing that satisfies. It is no surprise that the youth of our counry in the sixties latched on to Hesse as an avatar that told its story before they lived it. His books struggle with issues you will find familiar regardless of your heritage or the time you were born to. It is the spiritual quest, and the quest for knowledge and all people are seekers. Some give up at some point and resign themselves to what is at hand but Hesse does not. So he can be either disturbing or inspirational depending on where you are in life. His books no doubt appeal more to youth but I think its a mistake to count him out. This book is not religious really, it is philosophical, and Hesse's imagined east is very appealing: In the shade of the house, in the sunshine on the river bank by the boats, in the shade of the sallow wood and the fig tree, Siddhartha, the handsome Brahmin's son, grew up with his friend Govinda. The sun browned his slender shoulders on the river bank, while bathing at the holy ablutions, at the holy sacrifices.(pg.1)<br />Yes, I have thoughts and knowledge here and there. Sometimes, for an hour or for a day, I have become aware of knowledge, just as one feels life in one's heart. ...but this one thought has impressed me, Govinda. Wisdom is not communicable. The wisdom which a wise man tries to communicate always sounds foolish.(pg.115)<br />But Hesse does communicate a wisdom in this book. And the final pages of this book communicate it in a very poetic way that will remain with you.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R3U6NDBOQZUDPV	0811208478	148567452	Journey to the End of the Night (English and French Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	War &amp; Africa , New York...Paris	This book is analyzed a lot for two reasons: 1) its writing style which feels closer to life than previous styles of literature, 2) its narrator's personality,not your conventional hero. It is very readable and enjoyable and in fact contains one of the most interesting accounts of World War I, &quot;over our heads, two millimeters, maybe one millimeter from our temples, those long tempting lines of steel, that bullets make when they're out to kill you, were whistling through the hot summer air.&quot; Celine's character Bardamu is very funny and may remind some of Diderot's Rameau and perhaps he is a Rameau for the modern age. He calls a thing exactly as he sees it. The war chapters are my favorite for their strange blend of humor and absolute sobriety in the face of death , those bullets keep coming at Bardamu but he performs well and even becomes a corporal. It's not all fun and games for Bardamu of course, and there are moments of true humanity which stay with you as well as moments of real fear when under attack. The next phase of Bardamu's career takes him to Africa and there he spends what amounts to about 40 pages of time in a state of fever...hacking through jungle, jungle noises, butterflies, hacking through more jungle, riding in a dugout. Then to New York: 'we couldn't help laughing seeing it right there in front of us'. Bardamu roams the New York streets in awe, in his own special dream and eventually meets Molly, but soon he must go back to Paris and begin making a living of some kind. The parting scene with Molly is one of the more moving scenes in the book and there are quite a few. I suppose this kind of writing is called picaresque(episodic adventures of a roquish protagonist)but Bardamu is really very likable and very moved by much though he defends himself with humor and cynicism. The last part of the book in the slums of Paris is not as much fun as the earlier episodes but the writing is strong all the way through. Celine is smart and funny and irreverent toward everything, the language and humor and sometimes unexpected moments of compassion and feeling are exciting to read and all of it has a punch you won't forget as this is really good fiction that has lasted for good reason. You will enjoy following Bardamu on his adventures.reverent toward everything, the language and humor and sometimes unexpected moments of compassion and feeling are exciting to read and all of it has a punch you won't forget as this is really good fiction that has lasted for good reason. You will enjoy following Bardamu on his adventures.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R4NN7W5TUYRRL	0802131581	555406887	St. Petersburg	Books	4	15	16	N	N	a nonobjective treatise	...tick tick tick.....this is Turgenev's Fathers and Sons written after the modernist floodgates had been opened. My version of this has a Kandinsky on the cover and that is the perfect emblem to front this Russian avante garde revolution of a book. There is in it a live time bomb waiting to go off. It takes awhile to get used to Biely's unusual way with words(and I have no idea if this is a translation thing or not) but once you catch his rhythms it is a great read. We live in a much more settled civilization than the one this author experienced and documents but if you like to read things that remind you that culture occasionally does undergo monumental shifts, this is one of those works. Not perfection to our postmodernist ears but strange music indeed. Boom.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R2777FAC17FLSX	1559700157	925130934	The Marquis of Bolibar (English and German Edition)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	an entertainment of a high sort	The mysterious Marquis that haunts the margins of this historical  war drama is a wonderful creation whose real identity remains a mystery to the very end. The book has a fantastic element to it but it is not so far out there to be considered genre fiction. Leo Perutz was admired by Italo Calvino and Jorge Luis Borges among others and writes very literate but also very entertaining books and belongs in that category of writers. You can enjoy the identity mystery(national and personal) and the historical dimension of this as well. It is a fascinating series of events  that take place in an equally fascinating time and place(all of Perutz's books do)and it will enlighten you and entertain you with a not too often written about side of the Napoleanic Wars. Mainly the complex ethnic and nationalist and familial loyalties that sometimes created very complex situations. The troops that occupy and garrison themselves in to the strange town where these events occur are in for a series of surprises and so is the reader who will be delighted to have found such a unique kind of book.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R1VNIP57PRAIK9	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Time....again	The greatness of this book in my belief is not anything having to do with the title. The French title In Search of Lost Time refers to Marcel's endeavor to recapture a lost past. Strictly speaking all great fiction does this. Proust's memory does prove important but it is not his theory of perfectly recapturing the past which makes for a sumptuous read but his effort to do so which is quite a different thing. Proust reimagines things in a way they could not possibly have occurred. He imagines a thing in the way a child dreams a thing. The fact is that a child usually finds his imaginings are far better than anything the world suggests. Proust chose to believe differently and thats fine with me because what he imagines his past to have been like is something I believe no one has ever lived. To my ears his theory of recapturing time is just a necessary illusion for creating great fiction. And he does that. The first book of this multi volume set is the story of Swanns love affair with Odette told in such a way that we all know that this is a modern fiction writer who is writing a modern piece of fiction with as much self consciousness as Manet had when he painted Luncheon on the Grass. Later in this grand and intricately woven set of novellas we find Marcel at the Opera. And we find him enjoying this Opera in the way only a Flaubertian student of fiction enjoys fiction. Don't be fooled but don't miss the pleasures afforded in time spent here. This was the decadent era after all and authors were given free reign to invent. He writes like a Prince. Of that you need no proof of lineage. Buy this because nothing else like it exists. It is a document, though forged by a romanticist, of turn of the century France. Everything here is superbly written and entirely fake. Why do people write fiction? To make things right in the second draft.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R2PKRG610K02WS	0679732454	706531097	The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge: A Novel	Books	5	37	38	N	N	The Failing Light of Inspiration	If you read this at the right time of life no other book will ever be more important to you. I read it when I was 19 and for me that was the right age. Rilke's Notebooks contain what amounts to the crisis of modern existence.  For Rilke the solution was writing some of the best poetry ever written. If you want proof read it.  For Malte it was not so clear yet and his struggles will be very familiar to any student of the arts.  As a time piece this also has much value. It records the change over from the old Europe to the new. For Malte, as it was for many of Mann's, Musil's, Broch's... characters, this proves devastating. Identity threatening. The second half of this book is not as good as the first half but I'll take that first half and disregard the rest. Read this while reading Rilke's greatest contribution to our world, his poetry.	2001-08-31
US	45344448	R17BBFLVNO44GN	0374516316	669661832	Coup de Grace	Books	3	15	20	N	N	a slanted orientation	This novella which takes place during the national and ethnic conflicts in Eastern Europe at the time of WW1 explores life through the eyes of a soldier and his two best friends. The soldier however has a code by which he lives and he conducts himself with utmost respect to this code and this code only. Tragedy follows. This may remind a few readers of some of Conrads short works that deal withthe same theme. Yourcenar's working of this material is stretched to novella length though and will try some readers patience as the character is not all that fascinating, what is fascinating is how the writing never wavers(not too much anyway)or tells too much. She lets the character live the consequences of his chosen code. There is a wonderful scene toward the end where the main character seems baffled by his own existence. Not a masterpiece of a novella but to readers who like fiction of this length this is an exercise in the possibilities of the form. Yourcenars introductory essay is very interesting on this point.	2001-08-30
US	45344448	RTFTMWY1YF5PX	0374503486	432602964	Memoirs of Hadrian	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Within You, Without You	Yourcenar is interested in sensibility and so here you get the Roman world as experienced through the eyes of Hadrian. Historical fiction at its most personal. When we think of Rome we usually think in epic form but this is a very lyrical book and Hadrian really seems to posses qualities which are reminiscent of that slightly older culture Greece. I've never read anything else about Hadrian so I don't know how true to life this account is but however real or imagined this Hadrian is Yourcenar pulls this off unbelievably well. Lives of the Ceasars this isn't but it is something rare. In examining this life so completely she allows us along with her to inhabit this other existence and ultimately we realize better what it is like to truly inhabit our own.	2001-08-30
US	45344448	R2JCM8P6MVVDOQ	1931313814	484137590	Memoirs of an Infantry Officer	Books	5	30	31	N	N	While time ticks blank	I already knew Siegfried from his poetry. Little did I know or suspect what a madman he was on the battlefield. Makes the poetry read a bit differently. He led raid after raid (and voluntarily!), possibly hurling more havoc and grenades on the enemy than any other single soldier. Luckily he was on our side. Toward the end of the war this highly decorated soldier begins to have his doubts about the madness of it all but few practiced it with more gusto. I first read about his heroics in Graves' Goodbye to All That(which is another excellent war memoir,&amp; which also features a strange meeting at Oxford with that other legend you have probably heard of, T.E. Lawrence), both books will give you the war experience from the insiders who lived it. I would make a quick mention of the best war book of them all All Quiet on The Western Front but you read that already I'm certain, as well as that gem by Hemingway A Farewell to Arms. Graves and Sasson belong in that company.<br />....Ghastly dawn with vaporous coasts/<br />Gleams desolate along the sky, night's misery ended.<br />(from Sassoon poem &quot;Wirers&quot;)	2001-08-30
US	45344448	R3IHXOQJ00FLPB	0060956585	71817169	The Path to the Spiders' Nests: Revised Edition	Books	4	10	11	N	N	while the city is still visible	I looked for this book for years after reading about it in a Gore Vidal essay I believe. Finally I noticed it was in print again and so I at last read it. This may not be Calvino's best to Calvino fans but to those of us who aren't particular fans of the Calvino style this is his first book and so the style isn't altogether there yet. To me that is a good thing. As artists become masters of their craft they begin to control their material to such an extent that nothing is left to chance. The charm of this book is that Calvino is not in complete command and so the book has a kind of raw innocence very suitable to its subject matter(WWII Italy) and lead character(a child). This is a very earthy book and that word does not apply to later Calvino. All the stuff is here that will later appear in more perfect form, but for this material he is in just the right form.	2001-08-30
US	45344448	RS51Q4NTGJ6P5	0880012633	792296282	The Delicate Prey	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Outside Civilizations Walls	&quot;Delicate Prey&quot;, the title story, is one of the most memorable stories I've ever encountered. This story of a young flute player and his uncles who are Arab traders crossing a remote desert region begins innocently enough but soon a stranger appears on the horizon who comes closer and closer. This desert episode is told with a perfect accumulation of atmospheric detail and just the barest amount of human detail to place this tale in the realm of myth. The tale involves many things that will later appear in Bowles' other short fictions including hashish and flute music and other things that will go unmentioned so as not to spoil their discovery by new readers. &quot;At Paso Rojo&quot; is a story set in South America on a ranch. There two sisters go after their mothers death to live with their brother. As the sisters settle in one sister especially decides she wants to live a freer life than women in the cities are allowed to live and she begins to allow herself liberties that shock her more conservative sister. As she rides through the wild jungle her horse bolts and the sensations she has impart to the reader that hers is no ordinary psychology. Used to suppressing her sexuality while her mother was alive she begins to explore her power as a woman and as events unfold we see that this power has sprouted something in her that cannot be mistaken for anything but pure evil. Every story in this collection presents striking locales and lurid acts. The appeal of them is partly in the exoticism of the locales and partly in the allure of the lurid. Bowles aesthetic is a strange one but his tales could not be delivered with any more force. The collection is dedicated to Poe, and appropriately so, but the depth of the psychological examination of different kinds of pathologies lend these stories a power that  magnifies their effect beyond mere horror stories. They are stories of modern psyches with the superficial but protective veneer of civilization removed.	2001-08-28
US	45344448	RJLB6QEMGIB2	0684815621	626767981	The ONLY THING THAT COUNTS: The Ernest Hemingway/Maxwell Perkins Correspondence	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Two Literary Giants	The best part of this are the early letters dealing with Hemingways first novel The Sun Also Rises and second novel A Farewell to Arms(Maxwell Perkins was an expert on war fiction). The exchanges between Ernest and Max over these books are priceless and very good reading to anyone who loves these books. From arguements over curse words(Hemingway one of the first to break ground in using them in his work) to discussions of Jake's predicament, from questions of how to present a reissue of Hemingways first story collection to reactions to reviews(more good reading) the correspondence is at this point one of mutual respect and admiration, Hemingway seems to need the great presence of Max Perkins even if for nothing else than reassurance. Later when the great ones literary reputation is established the letters become less and less interesting. The friendship remains a strong one but Hemingway no longer needs or asks for any input into his literary decisions. Perhaps the most astounding thing about Maxwell Perkins in relation to Hemingway is that he was smart enough to leave talent alone. With others like Fitzgerald and Wolfe there was always much to be done but with Hemingway the talent seems to have been there whole from the beginning. Hemingway fans that want to know everything will read and enjoy every detail even the letters which are just Hemingway complaining about his finances. Bitching about money can be funny when its Hemingway bitching about money. Probably a smarter purchase would be a collection of Perkins correspondence with all the authors he worked with. That way you get only the letters which count.	2001-08-28
US	45344448	RYRROJ5X80W0E	0394728815	357812420	Blow-Up: And Other Stories	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Argentine in Paris	Julio Cortazar is a revolutionary but one far from home and not a political revolutionary but one that roams the further reaches of the psyche, just beyond where civilization says it is safe to go. Every single one of his many short stories is worth reading(so, if available, get all of them). His novels I find too experimental and mired in his theories but in the short story he shines like very few others. Some of his best are told through a childs perspective and all of his shorter fictions in a way take you into that kind of place where wonder still outweighs any learned way of seeing &quot;reality&quot; which in Cortazar is always in quotes. Cortazar likes to take you out of your normal context and give you a whole new set of associations, a whole new world to walk in. His novels are difficult but his stories are not. They invite the best kinds of speculation but they can also be appreciated at a glance. Cortazar is reputed to have had a very large record collection, mostly jazz, in his Paris lair in the sixties. I think he is one of those authors who would have been very interesting to know. Hip to the way peoples perception of the world were changing at the time, but persistent in his personal quests which led him down many strange avenues. To this his stories will attest. A note: Cortazar is sometimes grouped in with Borges and there are some good reasons why but I prefer Cortazar. Both play games with logic but Cortazar pleases both the mind and the emotions. The effect is more subtle.	2001-08-28
US	45344448	R3TEORPQP6123N	0679723161	636015448	Lolita	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Intentional Fiction	Nabokov was an elaborate escape artist. First from an oppressive Russia, then from pre-war Germany, then from America and a last exile in Switzerland. His books are all in one way or another about characters who are escaping a situation. To really enjoy Nabokov it is best to start with an early work like The Defense and then work your way forward to Lolita which is this Russian masters masterpiece. After that you can continue on with Pale Fire, Ada, Speak Memory and his last novellas. Lolita is the one though if you only want to read one. Judging by this book Nabokovs stay in America was one that was at least amusing. The critique of middle American life in the fifties is very very high comedy. Nabokov shares the jokes and they are written in the very finest English as were his remaining works so he did admire something we possessed. As the novel progresses and Humbert's fine mind begins its gradual, inevitable decline America no longer really feels like America but more like something Grimm may have conjured to scare Europeans from coming over here. Nabokov is a fabulist and a first rate one. He sits on his throne and laughs to himself one imagines as his middle American morality play unfolds. If you can find the recording of Nabokov himself reading the showdown chapter of this book between Humbert and Claire Quilty you can savor Nabokovian prose while Nabokov does the same.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R2AT7932D3O6YK	0865472106	798946796	A Sport and a Pastime: A Novel	Books	5	89	98	N	N	A Year of Living Sensually	In the opening pages an unnamed narrator describes the French countryside and small towns he is traveling through by train. The writing is flawless, sharply observant and evocative of a locale and country that is traditionally linked with romance. As the narrator settles into a rented villa and begins to explore the night life of the small village he has decided to spend some time in we become aware of a peculiar habit of mind he has. The narrator likes to imagine the inner and private lives of strangers he meets. This is woven into the narrative in a way that makes it exciting to read as you don't always know just how much of what he relates is observation and how much created out of an imagination fueled by some personal need to embellish. The narrator is dedicated to a life of inaction so much so that he is relieved to find the woman he admires from a distance is no longer available. The books title is taken from the Koran and as Salter says in his autobiography is meant to be ironic as in its context it is meant to refer to the insignificance of this life in comparison to the life to come. But the narrator is no follower of traditional thought or beliefs and his only pastime is that habit of mind. Entering into his world is his exact opposite Dean. Outwardly handsome, exuding a sense of adventure, recently arrived from Spain, and immediately gaining the attention of women he also gainds the attention of our narrator. The two become friends....apparently. For here the clues as to what is observed and what is imagined becomes grey. Nevertheless this is not a distraction, rather it makes for an intriguing complexity to the narrative. Dean is soon involved in an affair which is highly charged, almost purely physical in its nature. Dean and Anne-Marie frolic in every way imaginable, including the favorite way of that most depraved of Frenchman, Sade. All could well be an invented affair but maybe not. The writing is so succinct and yet so rich in detail that as a reader you really don't care. It is a good sexy story. Eventually Dean who has been living out of his rich American fathers pockets must return to America but what a ride it has been. Dean leaves his rare sportscar in the care of our narrator but as soon as Dean is gone the car shows signs of decay. Every detail of this story from the descriptions of the French towns to the weather, which is often foul, to the sex scenes and trips to Paris is exceptionally told. This book has enough interesting aspects to be much longer but unfortunately it does end.der you really don't care. It is a good sexy story. Eventually Dean who has been living out of his rich American fathers pockets must return to America but what a ride it has been. Dean leaves his rare sportscar in the care of our narrator but as soon as Dean is gone the car shows signs of decay. Every detail of this story from the descriptions of the French towns to the weather, which is often foul, to the sex scenes and trips to Paris is exceptionally told. This book has enough interesting aspects to be much longer but unfortunately it does end.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R397BOA9H6GDL0	0679767878	187559849	The Man Without Qualities Vol. 1: A Sort of Introduction and Pseudo Reality Prevails	Books	4	24	30	N	N	4 stars for structure	Musil has been compared to the greats of 20th Cent fiction. His ideas are great but you have to possess the patience of a scholar or archivist to wade through these endless pages to find them. He did not have the gift of shaping a readable novel that Joyce or Proust had. If you found their novels difficult well just wait til you read this Austrian. Entertained you will be by his mind, impressed you won't be by his abaility to order and pare his thoughts down into a piece of highly crafted fiction. Theres just too much here to make sense of. The high points are high though. If you invest in this you will get your moneys worth but your readers good sense will tell you folly every step of the way. Passages not the entirety will impress.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R3TNW46O7ZEC2W	0785930442	616967271	Moravagine	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Voyage Surprise	&quot;The Prose of the Trans-Siberian&quot; poem remains my favorite piece of Cendrars writing but this novel is a close second. I passed my copy around and everyone that had a go at it praised the thrills it delivers. Cendrars is a character who seems to have known everyone and been everywhere during those wild experimental years at the beginning of the last century. He documented his many careers(he had a go at just about every art form) in four volumes of biography. Three of which I think are available. He also lost a hand in WW1 and wrote a very beautiful poem about it, such is the magnanimity of this soul who was such a restless originator of new forms it seems he could have single handedly brought about modernism all on his own. Of course his many friends (of which Picasso was one) did what they could too. As a poet his reputation is solid, as a novelist he is still gaining ground as his books begin to reappear after a long abscence. Moravagine is a book full of anarchic energy and though one of the main characters is a bit primitive that was after all one of the aspects of modernism. The wild beast of a main character is Cendrars monster or more specifically modern societies monster. There is also a monkey who is curiously human. The writing is manic at times but there are few lulls on this cross continental journey where the primitive and the civilized seem to walk hand in hand . If this was made into a picture it would be a road picture replete with half man half beast lead, civilized man narrator, and well clad monkey companion. Cendrars family album.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R3SZKVM9RURWJH	0385418957	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom: A Triumph (The Authorized Doubleday/Doran Edition)	Books	5	28	32	N	N	the deserts fondest stranger	I recommend buying a map and locating the seven cities that are the seven pillars of wisdom before riding your camel through this highly rewarding terrain. T.E. Lawrence can write and write well is the magic discovery of this book. I recommend reading a biography first though. An excellent one written by Jeremy Wilson is a good start. Then read this. The biography will give you a good idea of what a complex figure Lawrence is from early days as archeologist and medieval fortification expert to being recruited for WW1 intelligence and usurping his superiors with his vast fields of knowledge, the biography will set the scene to truly enjoy this masterpiece of guerilla warfare. Those who are interested in the clash of cultures will enjoy Lawrence's way with the various Arab personalities which he must befriend and betray in due time. Lawrence's loyalties are none too sure in these perilous times and become all the more tenuous as the war nears its end. Poor Lawrence, his scholarly and energetic and wide minded ideals and impulses which win him friends in the Arab world are qualities which an older and more cynical culture merely uses to its own ends. Great great read. More stars are due.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R2B9JCSRYXV8A3	023105789X	516111794	The  Opposing Shore	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Journey to the End of Civilization	Civilization has grown bored with itself and so in a richly detailed account of a fabled nations collective will, Julien Gracq shows how a people can arrive at a point where destruction is preferable to ongoing decay and stagnation. If you've read Balcony in the Forest you know that Gracq knows something about anticipation and suspense but this is a journey even deeper into the interior of the psyche and is an altogether unique reading experience. Julien Gracq's prose is best read slowly and savoured, he lingers in his descriptions and elaborates each thought with ever richer examples which hone and decorate his meanings. The plot progresses organically and instinctively like a dream unfolding and revealing episode by episode the destructive inclinations of late civilzation consciousness. Dense sensual impressions abound. If French poetry appeals to you as well as the war genre this is your book, though this book far exceeds the normal bounds of war fiction.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R3UUTXVDYMJVM7	0679783180	325978172	The Charterhouse of Parma (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Provisional Character	Fabrizio's dubious lineage is just a small seed of a hint as to the kind of life he will live for everything Fabrizio does has the distinction of being a dubious undertaking. Fabrizio runs away from home to join forces with Napoleans troops only to find himself imprisoned as a spy. A uniform swapping in prison allows Fabrizio to proceed with his plan but in that swapping he is made strangely aware of how flimsy a thing identity can be. The whole book traces Fabrizio from one identity to another, all are convincing but only for the moment they are used in, after that identity is a discardable commodity. This is especially clear in matters of amour. The heart is only as good as its current disguise, tomorrow may well be another matter entirely. It is no wonder existentialists find so much in this book. The merits of the book are many but some parts are definitely better than others. The war scenes are especially well written, they are presented through the fragmented perceptions of Fabrizio and so the experience is very immediate not unlike the battle scenes in Cranes Red Badge of Courage. But the book is not dominated by war which makes up just a few chapters most of the book is about love , that noble and confusing and fickle grail. And though the pursuit is in itself noble, it is also funny. The book is comic in the way the Odyssey is a comedy. And in that book Odysseus has his moments of identity crisis as well. Fabrizio's odyssey among the low and high born in love and war makes for a very engaging read. The ending which I won't give away is less than I expected but that is a small complaint after so much. Anyway I suppose the lad is tired after so many travails so I suppose it makes as much sense as any ending would.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R15T11A3ZR5XUL	0679767878	187559849	The Man Without Qualities Vol. 1: A Sort of Introduction and Pseudo Reality Prevails	Books	5	61	64	N	N	Five Stars for Ulrich's Mental Exercises	Two essays will help give you an idea of the scope of this immense two tome empire of a book: V. S Pritchett's &quot;A Viennese&quot; and Sven Birkett's &quot;Robert Musil&quot; available in his essay collection Artificial Wilderness(which is a great book on 20th Cent. Europeans). I have never finished this book but reread underlined portions of it now and then to remind me of my first contact and impression of this book which was one of amazement that such a book exists. Once you have met Musil and listened to him speak through his magnificent minded creation Ulrich you will not forget him. Ulrich is like no other character in fiction. You get a cast of odd creations and rigorous Ulrich's Austrian analysis following them all around like some on the spot historian documenting the Austrian Empire in its days of decline and it is all quite entertaining. It does wear you out pretty quick though. His shorter fiction(especially &quot;Blackbird&quot;) is good too as well as his one other novel Young Torless but nothing prepares you for this. A more challenging and intelligent entertainment I have not yet found. His diaries are also available, though I can't imagine someone finishing Man Without Qualites and then running out to pick them up.	2001-08-26
US	45344448	R2WNFU03WTJMU	0060199164	318982614	The Sheltering Sky, 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	15	17	N	N	High Brow Horror Fiction	Paul Bowles loved Edgar Allen Poe, wrote poetry in Paris and befriended several of the surrealist poets instead of going to college, and he married Jane who later went mad. Bowles terrain is not for the meek and he does not strike a wide variety of notes in his fictions but it is so very well written that the often spare and hollow content of each work is made palatable even seductive to readers who normally might not walk on the wild side. The desert is his favorite atmosphere. The Sheltering Sky is his best known work and the only of his many novels to gain a wide audience. His short stories are also exquisite and there are many of them. The short story is a form he is very comfortable with. Sheltering Sky is the travelogue of a couples journey .....but where to and why. You will have to read it. The less you know going in the better. Invisible Spectator is an excellent biography also. If you catch the Bowles bug you will also be led to Isabelle Eberheart's Oblivion Seekers. And his protege Mohammed Mrabet. Bowles left America in the 40's and lived in North Africa all his life rarely making visits abroad. The beats worshipped him for letting in the sex and the drugs. He was also a trained composer and collector of tribal music(Master Musicians of Morroco, excellent CD). His original recordings might be worth seeking out as a good accompaniment to his written work.	2001-08-26
