US	45374251	R9W87D0CWP4SZ	0151001634	571684273	Flowers for Algernon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	YOUR EYES WILL BE GLUED TO THE PAGE . . . AND LOVE IT.	I had heard many great things about this book so I decided to hunt it down and read it. I started reading this book the day I got it and once I started I was hooked. The pages fly by so fast! One second it seemed that I was on page 37 and the next thing I know I'm on page 172. There's only a hundred pages or so left, may as well finish it. <br /> So what was it that made this book so addicting? The story is simple enough: A retarded boy named Charlie Gordon wants to learn to \\"reed\\" and \\"rite\\". But no matter how hard he studies, he doesn't seem to get anywhere, but the scientists are surprised at Charlie's eagerness to learn. <br /> There is a mouse named Algernon and the scientists have done something to the mouse to make him smarter, to solve complicated mazes. Algernon gets smarter . . . alot smarter. Now, what if the same thing could be done for Charlie? <br /> This is only the beginning. There are many many flashback scenes in this book that reveal Charlie's past. Some of the dialogue (especially when Rose and Matt are fighting) is superb because it sounds so natural. I've read some 75,000 pages worth of books and the character development in this book is among the very best I've ever seen. <br /> I could say more, but let the story speak for itself. <br /> Very very rarely do I read a book in one sitting--this is one of those books.	2002-12-31
US	45374251	R338XAZ52XB2SQ	0451528026	115131471	The Purgatorio (Signet Classics)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	DEEP AND MOVING	When I read &quot;Inferno&quot; I read the John Ciardi translation, so it only made sense that I read &quot;Purgatorio&quot; by the same translator. As I like poetry I definitely like the fact that his translations rhyme even if several liberties have to be taken with the original text. Sometimes, though, it seems as if the translator is more concerned about rhyming than getting the point across. However, as Ciardi points out, Dante is very deep and challenging. Translating is difficult. Translating the &quot;Divine Comedy&quot; and making it rhyme while still making sense is harder still but Ciardi does an admirable job. There are quite a few tercets that are absolutely wonderful to read.<br /> The Purgatorio details the journey of Virgil and Dante as they go up Purgatory. If there is one thing that I like about Dante, it is in the way he thinks, which appears very logical. In Purgatory, one sees that one starts at the very bottom, which shows humility. This of course, makes perfect sense, since these souls are approaching God. I particularly liked Dante's reasoning behind &quot;The Proud&quot;. In life, they walked around with their noses held high, thinking highly of themselves. In Purgatory, they crawl under the crushing weight of huge boulders, making them humble and bringing them &quot;back down to earth.&quot; <br /> Each Canto starts with a very helpful synopsis of what follows. After that is the Canto and after that are the footnotes. It is extremely beneficial to know some mythology and Italian history beforehand, but the footnotes at the end will fill in the many gaps for you, that is, if you have the patience to read them. If you're still confused about what all has gone on, the section at the very end entitled &quot;How to Read Dante&quot; is very helpful, a nice way to finish the book. <br /> This book, like its predecessor, can be very challenging and tedious. But, as Virgil and Dante find, though the road is rough so are the riches that much greaterwhen they finally come to journey's end.	2002-12-29
US	45374251	R116NVX322B5DT	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	4	9	10	N	N	COPYRIGHT 1956	Keep that in mind as you read this book. Think of all those bad SF movies that you see on American Movie Classics--the ones with bad plots, cardboard robots, flying saucers, our generals planning to nuke the aliens away. <br />In this novel, welcome yourself to a world where people \\"jaunte\\" or teleport from a known point A to a known point B. Where World Wars are replaced by devastating Solar Wars. Nukes are still implemented, but they're about to be overshadowed by an even deadlier creation, known as PyrE. It is little more than a few elements mixed together, but it detonates when triggered by psychokinesis (you think and it happens, in essence, you're God). People see with infrared eyes. Mars is slowly changing its atmosphere so that its inhabitants can breath oxygen. Infants can use telepathy. Religion is outlawed, resulting in Cellar Christians. <br /> Welcome to the year 2436. <br /> All of the above plays a part in the story in some way or another. But the real heart of the story deals with a man named Gully Foyle, who has been floating alone in space for 170 days. A ship comes by. Gully signals it. The ship obviously sees him. But it does not rescue him. Thus is born within Gully a seed of revenge that will grow as the pages fly by. <br /> The book has its slow parts, but the book overall manages to overcome that fact. What I like most about this book is Bester's attention to detail. For example, when he details the history of \\"jaunting\\", he mentions the many different ways that it has changed the universe. Diseases spread like wildfire. People can leave towns, states, countries, at will, whenever (and I thought the Arizona border patrol had problems). To me, these minor details are what brought Bester's universe to life. <br /> One can not deny that this book was highly influential in the field of SF. The playful use of words at the end and the illustrations would be an element that SF authors like Harlan Ellison would use in his short story \\"The Region Between\\". <br /> I wouldn't consider this book to be the \\"greatest single SF novel\\" as Samuel Delany would put it, but it is definitely a classic. Kudos to Bester and his novel. For jaunting the SF field forward.	2002-12-21
US	45374251	RZWKGM1Z3ZCZ9	0062509373	495578543	Book of the Dun Cow, The	Books	4	5	6	N	N	ANIMAL FANTASY "DUN" RIGHT	Go back to cat-hell Fritti Tailchaser. Run back to Redwall little mice. <br /> I really didn't think I'd find something that would even come close to rivaling Richard Adam's Watership Down, but here it is. For one, Wangerin Jr. has excellent character development. Chauntecleer, the Wee Widow Mouse, Pertelote, Mundo Cani Dog, John Wesley Weasel--you'll come to readily recognize and love all of these characters. <br /> But what I liked most about this book was the fact that it had more fantasy in it than similar books like Tailchaser's Song, Redwall, and even Watership Down. There's the evil Wyrm within the earth. When I read about Wyrm, I instantly thought about Uroboros, the World Serpent. I read about Cockatrice, an evil amalgamation of rooster and serpent--and thought about the twisted animals described in the book of Revelation. <br /> When I read good fantasy novels I feel like I'm watching a movie. As is usually the case, certain scenes I read become especially vivid. One such scene that I remember dealt with Cockatrice sitting atop his Terebinth Oak, while beneath him were several thousand eggs, waiting to hatch forth serpents. It made me think of the movie Aliens for a second. Another interesting scene in the book was where Chauntecleer and Pertelote are walking through a battlefield--at night--and they stumble across a dead deer. <br /> Unlike some fantasy novels I've read, the last battle in this book is very satisfying. Let's just say that Wyrm makes the Sandworms of Dune small in comparison. Another thing that I like about this book is that good guys do die and DON'T come back. I'm sorry, but I hate books where the good guys come out unscathed. This book is very original and refreshing, full of stuff to spark your imagination.	2002-12-14
US	45374251	R3USNRR0UX3VV3	0345413350	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	SLIGHTLY ABOVE AVERAGE	Compared to the vast majority of fantasy novels, The Golden Compass is a thorn in the side of redundancy. This, however, does not mean that this book is excellent, though, and unfortunatley. <br /> Philip Pullman creates an alternate universe that is not all too different from ours. If I were to place his universe in our timline, I would say it fits the WWI era best, the big giveaway being the existance of zeppelins. <br /> One of the biggest additions to this universe, though, is the existance of daemons, or one creature that is linked to one human. The daemon can talk and take the form of about any animal, but they normally prefer one form over all others. The human and daemon may seem very seperate, but once you read the chapter entitled \\"The Silver Guillotine\\", you'll realize how much the one needs the other. That chapter contains one of the most powerful scenes in the book, but you won't get to it until you're more than halfway through. <br /> Which leads me to my biggest problem with this book. It's original, yes, but dreadfully slow, especially towards the beginning. Thinking back, all I can recall is the awkward meeting with Lord Asriel, Oxford, and heading north while trying to stay away from Mrs. Coulter. The character development, I must admit, is above average, but the plot suffers as a result. However, once I got to the part entitled \\"Bolvangar\\", the book started to pick up to a proper pace, finally coming to an end that reminded me of the end of the novel Hannibal by Thomas Harris. <br /> If it weren't for the fact that the ending was somewhat satisfying, I would have rated this book less, but even as it stands, I really didn't find it all that exciting. Take your Alethiometer and ask it about a better book, I'm sure it'll come up with something better.	2002-11-24
US	45374251	R3CBSIECNLPIKZ	0446611204	794065394	The Dreamthief's Daughter: A Tale of the Albino	Books	5	4	4	N	N	MOORCOCK MATURES	Michael Moorcock is best known for his Elric Saga, the first book being \\"Elric of Melnibone\\". Several sequels followed, including \\"Stormbringer\\", which is considered one of the hundred best fantasy novels ever written. <br /> Before you even open the first page, you know that Michael Moorcock has changed. Most obvious, is the fact that this book is so thick--considering that the previous Elric books were scarcely over a hundred pages. And by looking at the synopsis on the back, you see the Elric story has changed--dramatically. Now, OUR history is caught up in the adventures of Elric, as the Nazis are trying to capture the sword Ravenbrand. <br /> When I first picked this book up, I was very much puzzled and concerned as to how Moorcock would pull it off. Believe me, he pulls it off very nicely and it makes a lot more sense than one would think. For one thing, Michael Moorcock always mentions the Multiverse--where there is not one universe but a myriad of them, and, if you know how, you can go to any of them. The Multiverse is how Elric's universe and ours are able to come together. <br /> No matter what book I read, I have a habit of marking passages that I particularly like. I started reading this book with the intention of not finishing it anytime soon, but after a few pages, I couldn't help but notice how many passages I had marked. This was a good book! Moorcock's writing style has certainly changed. The older Elric stories had the taste of the pulp magazine in them. This book, especially the first half, tastes more of modern-day fiction. It is for that reason that I say that Michael Moorcock has matured. That is a good thing. The better authors don't let themselves get stuck in a rut, following the same boring outlines and formulas. <br /> As for the book itself, the first half takes places primarily in WWII Nazi Germany, with the focus on Ulric von Bek, our universe's equivalent of Elric. Surprisingly, although Elric is most assuredly in this book, the readerwill find himself reading more about WWII Germany than ancient Melnibone. <br /> Some of my favorite passages from this book include: \\"A quintessentially German building. Its sweetness, however, was marred a little when you knew that its name came from the famous witch-burner, Burgermeister Rothmann. In 1667 he had burned twenty-five witches. It was his best year (pg. 97).\\" <br /> And <br /> \\" 'Every bloody town begins with an 'H' around here,' he complained. 'I get them mixed up. I think I should have taken a right at Holzminder. Or was it Hoxter? Anyway, it looks as if I overshot my turning. We seem to be halfway to Hamm (pg. 95).\\"<br /> As you can see, there is even some humor in this book. Most of the other passages I liked were more intellectual, more thought-provoking. But hey, when you're reading a book that deals with such heavy subjects as The Multiverse, a little humor is most welcome. <br /> I give this book 5 stars, but in reality it's more like 4.5 stars. This book does have its slow parts and is not as satisfying overall as \\"The Eye of the World\\" by Robert Jordan, or \\"Tigana\\" by Guy Gavriel Kay, but it's still an excellent work of fantasy.	2002-08-03
US	45374251	R2U3XL2NN1SIXM	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	3	7	14	N	N	HE SHOULD HAVE DUG DEEPER	The Dark Tower starts out with the catchy opening line of &quot;The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed.&quot; Unfortunately, Stephen King doesn't make it really clear as to WHY the gunslinger is chasing the dark man in the first place. One can only presume that the gunslinger is the good guy and that the dark man is the bad guy that needs to be killed ASAP. <br />For the first hundred or so pages you read about the gunslinger hanging around wasted towns in the middle of some Sahara desert from hell. The next hundred pages or so deal with Jake, some kid that comes from our world. In addition to that, Jake and the gunslinger start chasing the dark man through the desert. In the final three hundred pages the two main characters follow the dark man to a large mountain, where the gunslinger finally confronts him. <br /> The last chapter, &quot;The Gunslinger and the Dark Man&quot; is one of the more interesting parts of the book. The two of them have a discussion along the lines of &quot;what if our universe were just a speck of dust on a blade of grass, and that blade of grass was inside another universe, and that universe was inside ANOTHER one&quot;, etc. <br /> So with that in mind, if I look at the BIG PICTURE, The Dark Tower is just another novel in a universe filled with novels. To me, there was nothing in this book that made it outshine anything else. While reading this book I got the feeling that Stephen King wasn't sure what he wanted this book to be--Western (The Gunslinger), Fantasy (Tarot cards and a primitive setting), Literature (Childe Roland to the dark tower came . . .), or Horror (The Dark Man, the Slow Mutants). Stephen King also borrows a little from the Bible (Abraham and Isaac = Gunslinger and Jake), which isn't surprising, since he's done it before. <br /> I'll credit King on one account, though, he does know how to keep a book flowing. But once I get to the end I don't feel like I've got anything to show for it--except I can say, &quot;I've read it.&quot; <br /> In the Afterword, Stephen King says how, &quot;A sort of hush fell over my previously busy creative life--not a writer's block, but a sense that it was time to stop goofing around with a pick and shovel and get behind the controls of one big great God a'mighty steamshovel, a sense that it was time to try and dig something big out of the sand.&quot; <br />So Stephen King supposedly dug deep--and all he could dredge up was about 2 or 3 main characters, a desert, a mountain, and some flashback scenes? He dug something big allright--a big dissappointment. <br />He should have dug deeper.	2002-06-16
US	45374251	R1Y157MB3UJK0U	0394748468	826962040	The Norse Myths (The Pantheon Fairy Tale and Folklore Library)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	ODIN WOULD BE PROUD	Although I love reading books, I also like to play video games, and I can't help but notice all the references to Norse Mythology in video games nowadays. Odin makes consistent appearances in the Final Fantasy Series, the game Valkyrie Profile deals with readying for Ragnarok. Ragnarok is often the name of spaceships (FF8) or swords (FF6). Freyja and Fenrir appear in FF9. And so forth. <br /> As this is my first book that I've read on Norse Mythology I am by no means an expert as to how good it stacks up against other books of the same subject. But I can tell you that this book reads very fast and is often VERY entertaining, as it reads more like a novel. <br /> The book starts off with the introduction, which goes into the Norse World, the different sources that Kevin Crossley-Holland used for his translations, etc. What struck me most interesting about the introduction was that it mentions Ibn Fadlan. If you've heard that name before then you've probably been reading Michael Crichton's Eaters of the Dead, which is partially based on Fadlan's manuscript. <br /> After the introduction, we get down to the stories themselves, starting with the Creation and ending with Ragnarok. As far as I can tell, KCH tried very hard to put the stories in some sort of chronological order, but every now and then you'll come across a story that seems a little out of place. The stories are not all verbatim translations, but rather retellings. In short, KCH found all the different versions of the same story and decided what was the most accurate version. <br /> Poetry lovers will love KCH's use of alliteration in these stories, lines like: \\"An axe-age, a sword-age, shields will be gashed: there will be a wind-age and a wolf-age before the world is wrecked (pg. 173).\\" <br /> In addition to the beautiful writing, there is a GREAT deal of humor to be found within the pages of this book. For example, \\". . . the best you could say about Arrinefja's nose was that it was homely . . . (pg. 20).\\" Or the time when the trickster Loki tells Freyja that she looks rather ugly when she's bald. The time when a man and his wife tell their sons, \\" 'Your brother Otter is dead.' 'Dead?' exclaimed the brothers, leaping up. 'Dead. And what else do you think? His murderers are our guests for the night.' (pg. 137).\\" <br /> The characters in the Norse Myths are easily recognizable and each have their own personalities. To my mind, though, the most interesting is Loki. Towards the beginning of the book, you can't help but like the guy. He cracks jokes and gets the gods into all sorts of trouble and then gets them out of it. Then, towards the end of the book, closer to Ragnarok, we see Loki undergo a terrifying change from trickster to pure evil. <br /> After all the stories are the Notes. Primarily, the notes tell what sources KCH used for his retelling, a few parallels, etc. <br /> Beyond the Notes, there is something that should please all--a glossary. If you ever forget who what'shisface is, just flip back there and the glossary will plainly tell you who he/she/it is and what myths they appear in. <br /> For those of you that can't get enough of Norse Mythology I recommend the following books: \\"Eater's of the Dead\\" by Michael Crichton, the \\"Twilight of the Gods\\" series by Dennis Schmidt, the Seamus Heaney translation of \\"Beowulf\\", and just recently I came across a fantasy novel called \\"Beyond Ragnarok\\" (I haven't read it, but it might be worth looking into).	2002-04-21
US	45374251	R27I2HHEBA0IW8	0886773687	475852404	Armor	Books	5	4	5	N	N	SCIENCE FICTION'S DAS BOOT	Those of us that have seen the movie and/or read the book, know that Das Boot is the definitive submarine story, getting down to the very marrow of how things were in a WWII U-boat. Armor is no different. Author John Steakley presents the world of Banshee SO WELL, that I often couldn't help but thinking that he actually was a powered-armor warrior at some time in his life. And, as is most often the case, it is the small, minor details that impress me. Having to use your T0NGUE to flick the power on once inside your claustrophobic armored suit. The way Felix reacts when he learns that, having fought one massive wave of ants, has to fight ANOTHER one. <br /> The book is divided into three parts. The first part is the best, in my opinion. It details how Felix is sent down to the planet Banshee. Banshee is like a doomed Dune, where the air and water are lethal. The desert-like surface is scarred with trenches made by the enemy--the giant ant. And resting on the knuckles of a splayed-hand shape of land lies a towering anthill. The first part goes on for a little under a hundred pages, but I would have to say that they're possibly the best hundred pages I've encountered, and I am by no means saying this lightly. <br /> But then, we come to part two, and things appear as if they're taking a turn for the worse. For one, attention has been moved off of Felix and onto Jack Crow, who has just escaped from prison. I read and read and read but could never figure out how he tied into the antwar. I will give you fair warning, reading part two is as hard as penetrating powered armor itself but if you read some more, like I did, you'll find that he comes across a powered armor suit, and that's when things start to get really interesting. For, like Das Boot, this is not entirely about the machine, but about the man in the machine. And in a lab-like setting, the new characters learn more about Felix, the man, how he's able to do what he does and why. <br /> With the third part, all the loose ends come together. We learn who Felix really is and why he's in that armored suit. All I have to say about part three is this: It makes the whole book worth reading and REREADING. And like the late Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges said, all good books are worth rereading.	2002-04-20
US	45374251	R3SBX3PPFWHP35	0441569595	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	2	10	51	N	N	OW! MY HEAD!	Let me put it this way. I got this book in December of 2001 and I finished it around late March of 2002. Let me further add that I am a \\"chain-reader\\". While trying to read this book, I managed to finish at least five other books. In short, this book DRAGGED. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE books that try (or are) different, create strange new worlds. But Gibson's problem is that he just drops you in the middle of his world (that kinda sorta reminded me of Blade Runner, due to its darkness) and expects you to know everything. A simstim? What on earth is that? And to make matters worse, THERE'S NO GLOSSARY! Even DUNE and the WHEEL OF TIME series have glossaries and they're easy as dirt to read. In short, my head started hurting after a while because I couldn't bloody figure out what was going on. All the talk of \\"jacking in, jacking out\\" reminded me of the Matrix. Molly seemed pretty interesting at first, with her Wolverine-like retractable razorblade fingernails, but if the world she lives in can't be visualized, then it may as well not exist, leaving Molly--and the reader--in a big black void with nothing tangible to grab onto. <br /> Perhaps if this was made into a movie everything would make sense and I could go back and read the book with a better understanding, but as it is, this book is downright confusing. But I know one thing, this book has proved that, even though it was the one to start the cyberpunk genre, doesn't necessarily mean that it's the best.	2002-04-13
US	45374251	R2XOV57HXT5ICR	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Man With No Face!	After hearing so many good things about this book, I decided to give it a try. From the very first paragraph, one should be able to see why this book got the first Hugo award. A comic-book style? In a novel? Sounds unlikely, but all those exclamation points and italicized type really add flavor to this work and draw you in. Also, one couldn't hope for a much better beginning to a novel. Let me put it this way: if you're ever stuck overnight in the airport, this is the type of book you want: fast moving (Jet! Rocketing!). And I particularly admire how Bester shows how the telepaths are transmitting all at the same time by scrambling their conversations all over the page, as if some kid had gotten hold of the book and cut the sentences out with scissors, then recklessly rearranged them. <br />Unfortunately, this book failed to exceed or meet my expectations, and this is mostly because some time ago I had read a Science Fiction Mystery that just blew me away: Philip K. Dicks's A Maze of Death. Bester was really going somewhere with the beginning of his book, but as I read further, I felt as though the book was losing momentum, perhaps nearing . . . Demolition. And in my mind, the END of a book is what really should be good, because that is the last thing the reader reads. The end of The Demolished Man, although good, can't possibly hold up against the ending that PKD revealed in A Maze of Death.	2002-01-04
US	45374251	RIWIZZ68W2G44	0553262505	826884658	A Wizard of Earthsea (The Earthsea Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	FANTASY'S MOBY DICK	Well, in a way. Just as Captain Ahab hunted the White Whale, so does Ged hunt the black shadow that he has loosed upon the world of Earthsea. Of course, this is all after we read about Ged's childhood on the island of Gont and how he went to Roke and became a wizard. <br />One thing that really surprised me with this book was how poetic it was. There are literally dozens of sentences that have alliteration in them, making this work much more beautiful. And yet, I felt a little let down by the storyline. I guess I was expecting a little more action, such as expecting Ged to became the wizard in command of some army that must turn away the foes from some other island--but it's not so. That's not to say that the book is boring, though. It really is interesting, but just not excellent enough for a harsh critic like me to give it 5 stars.	2002-01-03
US	45374251	R2LS3XKLZ2VI1Y	0152017976	756598658	Elidor	Books	4	3	6	N	N	A FANTASY NOVEL THAT'S LIKE AN OREO COOKIE	Surely you know what an Oreo cookie looks like: White filling sandwiched between two round chocolate discs. And for the vast majority of us, the best part is the middle. That was how I felt after reading this book. The beginning, I thought, was rather slow and hard to grasp. I felt that C.S. Lewis' book the Magician's Nephew had a much more interesting beginning. <br />But then I got to the middle of this book. <br />I found myself liking the characters (Roland, David, Nicholas, and Helen)much more. I especially like the fact that, even though they face danger, they still have the time to bicker amongst themselves. For me, that made this novel a little more realistic. The dialogue is also really well done (especially the Chapter entitled Paddy) and a few of the ending lines for Chapters are good enough to make you want to start the next Chapter right away (e.g. Chapter 15, Planchette). <br />However, I felt a little let down towards the end of this novel. As I mentioned earlier, some of the ending lines for Chapters are good, so I was surprised to see that the last line in the book wasn't very effective on me. As you probably know, there are several more books in this series. After reading this, I really can't see what the sequels will cover, since--apparently--everything has been accomplished in the first one. <br />Overall, this is a more-than-decent fantasy and probably excellent if you're younger.	2001-12-26
US	45374251	R2EQNGRO3FT30X	0575005629	775370898	The Preserving Machine and Other Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	GOOD COLLECTION OF PKD SHORT STORIES	Although mostly known for his novels, Philip K. Dick also had a pretty impressive pile of short stories. This collection contains 15 of them: The Preserving Machine, War Game, Upon the Dull Earth, Roog, War Veteran, Top Stand-By Job, Beyond Lies the Wub, We Can Remember It For You Wholesale, Captive Market, If There Were No Benny Cemoli, Retreat Syndrome, The Crawlers, Oh To Be a Blobel!, What the Dead Men Say, and Pay for the Printer.<br /> For those of you who don't know, the story &quot;We Can Remember It For You Wholesale&quot; is the story that the movie Total Recall is based on. Personally, I think it is much better than the story the book is named after. But another very interesting story in here is the possibly prophetic &quot;What the Dead Men Say&quot;. It is an eerie mix of Ubik and VALIS. A cryogenically frozen man is believed to be sending messages from space, tying up all forms of communication. That particular story was written in 1964, several years before PKD's strange experiences with forces beyond earth.<br /> There are at least five other stories in here that I particularly enjoyed. Needless to say, every PKD fan owes it to themselves to read this collection at least once.	2001-10-16
US	45374251	R3KN4C3T553I2X	0064405052	575376127	The Magician's Nephew	Books	5	1	4	N	N	NARNIA'S SILMARILLION AND GENESIS	If you've read some of The Silmarillion by Tolkien and the book of Genesis, then you'll have a fairly good idea of what The Magician's Nephew will cover. It sets the groundwork for the following books. Basically, it describes (in this order)how the Witch was awakened, how the Lion was found, how the land of Narnia and surrounding territories were created, and lastly, explains how the wardrobe came to be. But the adventures in this book are not limited to these. The reader will embark on a journey with the main characters Digory and Polly . . . and sometimes Uncle Andrew will come along, and many other unexpected persons. Not all of the story takes place away from our world, though. There are a few parts that take place during the present-day and age. And, obviously, those parts are not near as fascinating as when you get to read about the Wood Between the Worlds or Narnia itself. The excellent illustrations go along faithfully with the narrative, making the reading experience much more visual and enjoyable. In all regards, this book is--as Uncle Andrew would have said in his English accent--&quot;A dem fine book, sir, a dem fine book.&quot;	2001-10-10
US	45374251	R2F4YBWZ11UCON	0441832849	880768023	Twilight of the Gods, Book 2: Groa's Other Eye	Books	5	5	5	N	N	TOOK ME BY SURPRISE	There is a Playstation RPG that I've yet to play called Valkyrie Profile. From what I gather, the storyline has to do with gathering warriors for Odin prior to the Norse judgement day, Ragnarok. Now, how about something similar to that storyline, except as a book, though? I've read lots of popular fantasy, but not once have I heard of an author weaving a novel around Norse mythology. I've always believed that such a book would be a thrill to read. And believe me, Groa's Other Eye IS a thrill to read. This is every mythology-buff's dream. Voden (Odin), Osiris, Enuma Elish, Humbaba, Tror (Thor), Freyja (Freya), Tiamat and Marduk are just some of the mythological figures and names that appear in this work. And when I say &quot;appear&quot; I don't mean that the author just mentions the name once or twice. No, when you come to Tiamat, for example, expect a battle on a god-grand scale. My, but I wish more fantasy novels were like this one! The reader of this story will follow the adventures of three characters: Voden (Odin), Freyja (Freya), and an evil wizard named Surt. Strangely enough, I actually found the bad guys rather likeable in this book. For example, there is the evil Khamuas who is always cursing this mouse that he saw on the twelfth day of the first month of winter, as he strongly believes that it brought him bad luck. In short, this book has an extraordinary cast of characters. But even books that I rate 5 stars are not perfect. If we stretched the 5 stars out to 10, I'd have to give this a 9 or so. For one, there is a terrible lack of descriptive detail in regard to the land. I really would like to know what the city of Asgard looks like (and other places, too), but Dennis Schmidt offers the reader almost no way of visualizing it. Secondly, there were times I felt that Mr. Schmidt was giving his characters easy solutions to difficult problems. Oh, it just so happens that you have a special cloth and that I can use this to defeat Adad, Ta-Dah! Finally, thisbook will take some time getting used to. When you're constantly being barraged with mythological names, you'll find yourself going back to the glossary in order to get your bearings. But those three things are VERY small complaints. I honestly CAN NOT name ANY fantasy novel that is as DIFFERENT and ORIGINAL as this one. The bottom line is this: If you're a mythology/fantasy buff, you'll LOVE this book. Even if mythology isn't your cup of tea, you probably still love it, since it veers so far away from most formula-fantasy. Finally, the books in this series are very hard to find. For those of you wondering, the first book in the series is called &quot;The First Name&quot;, the second we all should know is called &quot;Groa's Other Eye&quot;, and the final book in the trilogy is called &quot;Three Trumps Sounding&quot;.	2001-10-03
US	45374251	R29QCMEXN1SDXY	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	2	10	18	N	N	&quot;THE MONSTERS DIDN'T HAVE A CHANCE.&quot;	My title for this review comes from some narrative on page 228 of the paperback edition of this book. That line alone will tell you what you can expect from The Crystal Shard. For those who are fairly new to the genre of fantasy, you might think that this is a good, if not excellent book. If I were in your shoes I'd probably agree with you. But readers--like me--that have long followed the fantasy genre will find just another mediocre fantasy yarn. Orcs, goblins, dragons, wizards, stupid antagonists, lucky protagonists, simple storytelling--all are in here. As bad as I make this book sound, it is not a total disaster. The storyline certainly has lots of action and Salvatore takes you all over his sparse map. One of the promising characters is Drizzt Do'Urden, an exiled dark elf. Perhaps if I were younger I'd like to follow in Drizzt's footsteps in his other journeys, but not now that I know there are better characters to be found in fantasy. Still, younger readers will undoubtedly find him mysterious and interesting. Like many reviewers have stated before, this book abounds in cliche's. I've personally gotten to the point where I don't mind if authors use cliche's, but I do expect them to twist them around and try and make them their own. R. A. Salvatore does a mediocre job of that. At the very end of this book, Salvatore does lay some groundwork so that a sequel can be envisioned. Not very good groundwork, but at least the story doesn't leave you hanging.	2001-09-25
US	45374251	R168RIJ6TTB09P	1570624240	725531037	Writing Down the Bones: Freeing the Writer Within (Pocket Classics)	Books	2	13	23	N	N	NOT WORTH A WRITER'S TIME	Natalie Goldberg apparently has two loves in life: Zen and Writing. She loves both equally. So she probably had a hard time deciding whether to write a book on Zen or a book on writing. She took the easy way out. She wrote a book that had both. And oh how it shows! Seems like almost every chapter she'll have a sentence that starts with &quot;Katagiri Roshi said, . . .&quot;, as if I care what her Zen teacher had to say. I also remember her telling us to &quot;use a writing utensil that is comfortable&quot;--or something very similar. Now what person doesn't know that?! A waste of words, if you ask me. In my opinion, one should be VERY skeptical about a writer who has more &quot;how-to-write&quot; books than they do novels. If she really knew what she was talking about, don't you think she'd take her own advice and use it to start cranking out that bestseller that's been in her head for so long? If your kid wanted to play baseball, who would you rather have teach him: a person who WRITES about baseball and plays occasionally on weekends OR someone who PLAYS baseball nearly every day of the week? Same thing goes for writing. Now, if you want to read two good writing books, read ON WRITING by Stephen King and THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE by STRUNK AND WHITE. As Stephen King will tell you, you're either born a competent writer, or you're not--and one who is not born a writer won't make it. But perhaps the BEST advice that anyone can give a writer is this quote from Epictetus: &quot;IF YOU WANT TO BE A WRITER, WRITE!&quot;	2001-09-19
US	45374251	R3MN723FSICGJB	0441885918	970928066	Who's Afraid of Beowulf?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A BOOK WITH A MISLEADING TITLE	Who's Afraid of Beowulf? Sure, it's a catchy title, but I'm afraid that it is misleading. Beowulf is not a character in the story, but he's mentioned about 3 times. Despite Beowulf's absence, this book is still pretty good. Tom Holt treats us to an interesting cast of characters that drive or walk around London or Caithness. There's the cameraman, who keeps saying, &quot;This is like that time in (name of place) where such and such happened.&quot; There are two electron-like entities called Prexz and Zxerp, who have nothing better to do than play board games. Then there's the Vikings that Hildy Fredericks-daughter discovers. And together they vow to rid the world of a sorcerer that has managed to stay alive for several hundred years. This is a pretty decent parody on Vikings and fantasy. It's not so much that Tom Holt has funny scenes, but he has interesting characters, that make this book enjoyable. Unlike some parodies I've read, the end of this book is very satisfying and won't leave you hanging.	2001-09-12
US	45374251	R3R0H2QUD8LIOF	0595093272	144194157	Doctor Janeway's Plague	Books	4	6	6	N	N	DARK STARS AND GOLEMS	I, too, was asked by the author to read and review his book. Basically, it tells the story of Reverend Doctor Janeway's obsession with this dark star. The main characters in the story have reason to believe that Janeway is several hundred years old and is the reason for the alarming amount of people turning into golems. If a golem kisses you, then you're a golem. There are some good scenes scattered throughout, but I got a little tired reading about all the golems kissing people, turning them into golems, especially after the forth time or so. The first 2/3 of the book could have been condensed and the end could have been expanded. There were also many times that I felt he could have spent time describing things more, such as the characters and the landscape. Most impressive was the dialogue, though. Too many times authors have their characters talk in speeches. Here, Mr. Farrell has his characters talk like normal, everyday people. This is a very hard book to classify, but I think it would primarily appeal to people who like Mysteries with a little dash of history and fantasy thrown in. All in all, this book is considerably better than a lot of the [stuff] being published today, but it is not quite EXCELLENT. Don't expect Shogun, The Exorcist, or Watership Down, but still, it's a good book and worth a read.	2001-08-31
US	45374251	RBZF3DFYKPWUQ	0060934719	26552478	Stardust	Books	4	1	3	N	N	GOOD, BUT NOT EXCELLENT	When you go to a bookstore, sometimes you'll find Neil Gaiman in the fiction section and sometimes you'll find him in the fantasy section. With that in mind, if you're mostly a fiction reader who is curious about fantasy--or vice versa--then this is an excellent &quot;transition novel&quot; to get you acquainted. Stardust reminded me very much of some of the Brother's Grimm fairy tales: violent, enchanting, fairly simple storyline with maybe one good plot twist for good measure. At times I was slightly reminded of Zelazny's Amber Chronicles when I got to the part about Septimus and his many other brothers--not all of them still alive--hungering for the throne. But that's not what the story is about. It's about a man named Tristran Thorn who goes to the magical land of Faerie to literally retrieve a fallen star and then return to the town of Wall, with it. Overall, this was a pretty good book--I liked it better than The Neverending Story--but I wouldn't say that it's an excellent novel. Still, it's definitely worth a read.	2001-08-23
US	45374251	R9L4PJHN8KHKC	031294084X	474715459	Deathbird Stories	Books	5	55	60	N	N	JUST ANOTHER COLLECTION THAT SHOWS WHY ELLISON IS THE BEST	This is a very black, dark book. This is not a book for kids, nor is it a book for people who haven't read anything by Ellison previously. Harlan Ellison is one of those rare writers that can finish a story so powerfully, that you'll feel like you've been literally stabbed in the heart. Like many of Ellison's short story collections, he deals with a specific theme. In this book, he writes short stories about gods, in all their myriad shapes and forms. Gods of machines, pain, rocks, speed, revenge, among others. Of the 19 stories in this collection, let me tell you what I consider to be the best. THE WHIMPER OF WHIPPED DOGS: Ellison's award-winning retelling of the Kitty Genovese incident. Never heard of Kitty Genovese? Don't worry, after reading this chilling tale, you'll make sure you remember. BASILISK: A traitor to his country comes home and finds that he is not welcome. A little confusing at first, but you'll soon get the hang of it. PRETTY MAGGIE MONEYEYES: Don't let the strange title deceive you. This is Ellison in TOP form. Ever wondered what gods reside at the casinos and what they have in mind. It's not PRETTY, I can assure you. ERNEST AND THE MACHINE GOD: An easy-to-visualize story about a girl in a car-accident and her meetings at a gas station. ADRIFT OFF THE ISLETS OF LANGERHANS . . . : Another award-winning story about a man trying to find the geographical location of his soul. THE DEATHBIRD: Still another award-winner. This one is Ellison's retelling of Genesis. This story has a very innovative structure to it. You'll see what I mean, when you buy this book.	2001-08-21
US	45374251	R3SM7OLAV43FY1	0140088393	391484932	Son of It Was a Dark and Stormy Night (Bulwer-Lytton Contest)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A MUST-BUY FOR PARODOPHILES	Beyond a doubt, this is one of the best ideas ever conceived. A University hosts a contest where the contestants try and come up with the most intentionally stupid opening lines for a novel. Needless to say, some of the results are downright hilarious. I spent a good part of a day pouring over the pages of this book. There are categories for science ficton novels, romance novels, plain-jane fiction, detective stories, &quot;It was a dark and stormy night&quot; stories, you name it, it's probably in here in some shape or form. Because the entrys are short, this is one book that can very easily be finished in one sitting, whether you're riding in the car, or flying your hang-glider. The artwork that goes along with the book is nice, too. If I were you, I'd hunt down these books with the same enthusiasm that a headhunter would go after Mr. Potatohead.	2001-08-08
US	45374251	R21FJR4I7F0060	0691017840	638703862	The Hero with a Thousand Faces (Bollingen Series, No. 17)	Books	4	12	17	N	N	A FASCINATING WORK	First of all, let me make it dreadfully clear that this is NOT a book you should read just on the fact that it inspired George Lucas. That means nothing. Even stupid books can inspire you (it's happened to me, but that doesn't mean you should go read them). You should read this book because you're either interested in 1) heroes in all their different forms, 2) mythology in general, and/or 3) a writer. Secondly, who cares if some of Joseph Campbell's papers didn't make it to the Sarah Lawrence College. Does that mean he's a bad writer/researcher? NO! Spielberg didn't get Best Director for Jaws, does that mean he's a bad director? NO! I rest my case. Overall, I found this to be a very rewarding book, full of mythology, poems, thought-provoking passages, things worth taking notes about. But one thing that bothered me was this: This book is supposed to be about heroes and for the most part, it is. Basically, as long as Mr. Campbell mentions the word &quot;hero&quot; fairly often, you'll soon see the relevance. But in some chapters--like &quot;Apotheosis&quot;--you will probably have a harder time, or not see it at all. Also, I couldn't help but sometimes question his choice of stories to illustrate some of his points. To me, he should have mentioned Jonah somewhere in his chapter about the Refusal of the Call. But apart from those minor points, this book should be pleasing to writers and mythology buffs alike.	2001-08-06
US	45374251	RHW5G4VOVCYW0	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	3	2	6	N	N	GREAT BEGINNING AND END . . . SHALLOW MIDDLE	If someone were to ask me which author can consistently grab your attention with the very first sentence of a book, I'd have to say PKD, hands down. It all starts off with a man who is shaking invisible aphids from his body and he's afraid that they're going to eat him. If that's not weird, nothing is, and only PKD would have thought of it. But the bugs, though interesting, are not what this book is about. It is about drugs, and a cop that has to take on the role of a drug-user. The idea is excellent, sure, but I found it sometimes hard to follow--but never to the point where I stopped reading. But the ironic end of the book made it all worthwhile. And that's not even the end of the book, because then there's an epilogue written by PKD himself. Very moving. In my opinion, Confessions of a Crap Artist had a much larger impact and was better written throughout. But that's just me.	2001-08-05
US	45374251	RHG90FCWAJSIF	0881844365	995577710	Clans of the Alphane Moon	Books	4	2	3	N	N	ANOTHER GOOD ONE BY PKD	I wouldn't consider Clans to be PKD's best, but it is pretty good. What I found most interesting about this book was the variety. You have (as is common in PKD's works)a man who is struggling with his (in this case)ex-wife. There are lots of psychological and thought-provoking passages, as well. Then there's humor, like the fact that the main character's ex-wife was a marriage counselor! And who can forget the Ganymedean slime mold? But what this book mostly concentrates on (in my opinion) are the Pares (Paranoids), Ob-Coms (Obsessive Compulsives), Skitzes (Schizophrenics), Polys (Polymorphic Schizophrenics), Heebs (Hebephrenics), Manses (Manics), and Deps (Depressed). Although it isn't a prerequisite that you know what all these are (if you don't know already), it sure does help in understanding this book.	2001-08-05
US	45374251	RUGLYPUYH062T	0945053142	714378817	GROL Plus: General Radiotelephone Operator License Plus Radar Endorsement	Books	5	20	21	N	N	ALL YOU NEED TO PASS AN FCC TEST	Well, there isn't much to say about the content of this book. It covers Elements 1, 3, and 8, lists all the questions in the question pool, and gives the answers and an explanation. Some people have found SOME inaccuracies before (maybe not this edition, though). Anyway, thanks to this, I passed all 3 of my FCC tests on the first try, saving me a lot of $$$ and heartache. The best way--in my opinion--to go about studying for it is to highlight all the answers with a yellow marker. Concentrate only on the answers. Don't bother yourself with &quot;Why it is the answer&quot; or &quot;Why the other options are not.&quot; For those of us that are more visual than verbal, try drawing pictures on the margins next to each question. Cartoons supposedly help you remember things better--it did in my case. If you study like I did, you won't even need a calculator for the test. But in addition to being a test study guide, this book is also pretty good reference material. It should be in your toolbox at all times.	2001-07-21
US	45374251	R1UT1ZNZCAOTIA	0345331052	33760916	The Doom That Came to Sarnath (A Del Rey book)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	HORROR AND FANTASY	I find it funny that there's a unicorn logo on the front cover of my copy of this book, saying that this work is Adult Fantasy. About the only thing Adult about H.P. Lovecraft is that he uses big words like &quot;cacodaemoniacal&quot;. Although most of the works in this collection are fantasy, that doesn't mean that there isn't any horror to be had, either. Some of the stories in this excellent collection will give you more chills than the Sixth Sense ever did. Here's a brief synopsis of some of the stories in this book: THE OTHER GODS--One of my favorite fantasy pieces. It deals with mankind driving the gods up mountains. BEYOND THE WALL OF SLEEP--A primitive man from the mountains is put in an institution, where the main character discovers something extraordinary about the fellow. EX OBLIVIONE--Travel to a wonderful dream-world with a bronze gate that leads somewhere seemingly special. FROM BEYOND--This story reminded me much of The Sixth Sense. Lovecraft was never one for dialogue, but he did really well in this story. THE CATS OF ULTHAR--An elderly couple is suspected of cat-killing, but a boy passing through has thoughts of revenge. HONORABLE MENTIONS: The Tree, The Tomb, Polaris, What the Moon Brings, Hypnos, Nathicana, The Festival, The Nameless City, The Quest of Iranon, The Crawling Chaos, and In the Walls of Eryx. As you can see, you get lots of bang for your buck, so to speak. The stories are categorized, but they do not appear in chronological order--a partial chronology is included at the back. This is probably the best Lovecraft book I've read since The Best of H.P. Lovecraft. Both books are worth getting.	2001-07-11
US	45374251	R18XWMF09R16YL	0743412710	287545070	Address Unknown	Books	5	4	5	N	N	WHAT? YOU HAVEN'T READ THIS YET?	Look, who cares how historically accurate this story is, because it is first and foremost that--a story. The letters in the story, however, are based on REAL letters. Basically, it tells the tale of a Jew and a German. The German goes to Germany during the war and the two friends start writing back and forth. I won't spoil the end for you, but the plot twist is wonderful. Considering that this was written in the late 1930's, it reads really well. When this story was published in STORY magazine, that issue sold like fountain drinks in the desert. This is one of the few stories ever written that brings home the nuclear power of words.	2001-07-07
US	45374251	R3JZMDOKIZZ7FU	0441766749	27038846	Silverlock	Books	5	3	4	N	N	I'D LIKE TO BUY AN ADJECTIVE	I say that because, well, I just can't think of a word to describe how I feel about this book. This book was written in 1949, but John Myers Myers writes SO WELL that you'd think it was written in the present-day if you didn't know any better. I constantly found myself devouring it in 100 page gulps. Unlike nearly all other fantasy novels that are serious, this fantasy novel is intentionally humourous. The main character, Silverlock, finds himself stranded on a strange continent called The Commonwealth. As he journeys with his friend Golias, he meets up with MANY familiar literary characters. The literary characters and references are scattered through the book, but John Myers Myers doesn't stick with any of them very long. That way they don't go stale or get too much attention. There are TONS of humorous situations and poems in this book that will make you perk right up. Tolkien may have been a good poet, but JMM was just as good and sometimes far better. After reading a flood of formula-fantasy, this book is very fresh and rewarding. It downright shocks me that so few people have commented on this book. Please, do yourself a favor and buy this book IMMEDIATELY.	2001-07-02
US	45374251	R1HU8WFTL12L6J	0553588486	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A GAME OF CHESS	Of all the fantasy novels I've read, this is one of the most complex, the most grim, the most realistic, but also one of the most rewarding. If a game of chess between Bobby Fischer and Gary Kasparov became a novel, if each bishop and knight and pawn on the board had a story to tell, their tale would read like the pages of this book. Below is a list of the main characters as each chapter is taken from the point of view of one of the following:<br /><br />EDDARD \\"NED\\" STARK: The King of Winterfell, far to the north. Honorable and likable, but not without his faults.<br /><br />CATELYN STARK: Queen of Winterfell. Protective of her children, as any mother should be.<br /><br />ARYA STARK: Their young, horse-faced daughter. More tomboy than she is girl. \\"Stick them with the pointy end!\\"<br /><br />SANSA STARK: Their older daughter who is the complete opposite of her sister. She is proper, courteous and thinks that everything should unfold like a perfect day at Disney World.<br /><br />BRAN STARK: Their young son who loves heights--climbing or flying.<br /><br />JON SNOW: The [...]. son of Eddard Stark. Since he knows he will never be a king he must make his own future or let others decide it for him.<br /><br />DAENERYS TARGARYEN: A princess who is blood of the dragon. But her line is almost at an end and what remains of her family is in unfriendly territory.<br /><br />TYRION LANNISTER: An \\"Imp\\", short and ugly. Son of Tywin Lannister, king of that House. Tyrion makes up for his condition with his intelligence, witty remarks and sense of humor. Not very fond of his family.<br /><br />Those are just the major characters--the bishops, knights, rooks, queen and king on the chessboard. There are lots of pawns in this book and it can admittedly be hard to remember who's-who--but at least there is an appendix in the back with the family trees of the Houses.<br /><br />As many have said, this is a very downbeat book. If you feel that the good guys should always win in the end, then this book is probably not for you. Some text from page 746 of the book itself says it best:<br /><br />\\"Life is not a song, sweetling.\\" And \\"In life, the monsters win.\\"k itself says it best:    \\"Life is not a song, sweetling.\\" And \\"In life, the monsters win.\\"	2001-06-30
US	45374251	R2X7MH0AI5M0R8	051709293X	404758592	The Complete Brothers Grimm Fairy Tales	Books	3	89	104	N	N	OKAY STORIES, OKAY COPY	Not all the stories in this book are winners, and you can take a LONG time reading all of them. For the longest time I'd been hearing that Disney's version of these Grimm classics are much cleaner. No kidding. But being a hardcore fantasy reader, I like all the violence and dark senses of humor that the Grimm brothers have. Generally, for every 10 stories you read, you might find two that you like and one that you REALLY like. As for the actual book, the pages are apparently NOT acid-free, which means that it was cheaply made. It is still hardback, though. I'm not a HUGE Grimm fan, but there were enough illustrations for my taste. Along the same lines, I don't care if the works are out of order--what matters is that they're translated decently. I still hold that there is--somewhere--a better Grimm's book to be found--hence the 3 stars. Apart from all that, this is a good bargain bin book--which is where I found it. My favorite stories--so far--are The Frog Prince, Cinderella, The Three White Snakes, and The Youth Who Could Not Shiver and Shake.	2001-06-26
US	45374251	R1UBBUR775MH2L	0451523768	320431222	Notes from Underground; White Nights; The Dream of a Ridiculous Man; and: White Nights Dream Ridiculous Man and selections from The House of the Dead (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	FYODOR THE FABULOUS	If Fyodor Dostoyevsky was trying to portray a truly beautiful soul in The Idiot, then he was obviosly trying to portray a truly ugly soul in Notes from Underground. He succeeds immensely. From the opening paragraph (&quot; . . . let it hurt still more!&quot;) one can just visualize this nameless narrator sitting in refuse, gnashing his teeth. The book is divided into two parts: The Mousehole, which is where the narrator talks to you--yes YOU, dear reader, whether you like it or not. And then there's the second part: Brought to Mind by a Fall of Wet Snow, which is the story-portion of the masterpiece. The story portion reads MUCH faster than the former, BUT should be read AFTER reading the first part--some people do it the other way around. The story portion is basically about our anti-hero trying to get revenge on someone. If your taste lies in lemon-yellow mittens and mindless bar-room brawls, you're in for a real treat. Now there's two ways of buying this book. 1) Get it new. But poor thing, unless you are in AP English or have Cliff's Notes--or are Dostoyevsky himself--you'll probably miss much of the symbolism and between-the-lines stuff that this work has to offer. If you get it by way number 2) Used, your copy will more than likely have high-school scribblings in it. If you can read the writing, you can toss Cliff's notes, well, off a cliff. Highly recommended.	2001-06-26
US	45374251	R9QG3NCASHU3V	0441877184	917634501	Web Of The City	Books	4	18	19	N	N	HIS FIRST NOVEL	After reading this, it puzzles me why Harlan Ellison doesn't write more novels than he did. Especially considering that this is his first novel, he did an amazing job. Before I go on let me clear up one thing: this is a work of FICTION based on FACT. Harlan Ellison ran around with a group of Brooklyn gangsters for 10 weeks to get background for this story. And it shows. Parts of this book make the movie On the Waterfront with Marlan Brando seem tame. Basically it is the story of Rusty Santoro, President of a gang called the Cougars. But he feels that he can do better in life, so he drops out of his gang--they aren't too happy about it. And just as soon as he's about to break loose, he gets snared back in again. This is what Harlan Ellison means by The Web of the City. Harlan Ellison does everything well in this novel: from the distorted language of the lower class, to the atmosphere of the bad parts of town, and the types of people that live there. Although written in the 1958, this book reads as if it were written not too long ago. This book was first published as Rumble, but Web of the City is the title that Harlan gave it. I highly recommend this book, this author, and anything he writes.	2001-06-25
US	45374251	R2E727WXEBPPPA	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	COMPANION TO A PAINTING	There are two paintings on the cover of this book. One of a city (Delft) and one of the girl with the pearl earring. I don't know why, but I've always liked the latter. Very little action-wise is going on in the painting, yet it still catches your eye and holds your attention. So it came to be a big surprise that Tracy Chevalier was able to create a more or less interesting story on such a simple painting. The book IS rather slow, but I don't think anyone could have done much better. The characters are likeable and realistic. The author also does a good job of setting the scene in which this story takes place. You will learn many things about painting that you never thought of before. There are many parallels in this book--events or objects early on are reintroduced at later times. I appreciated Vermeer's painting a lot before reading this--now I appreciate it even more. After reading this book, you will be changed: you will see the blues and reds in every cloud, you will see the story in every painting. . . .	2001-06-15
US	45374251	R2B8A36JZRIG5A	0446602825	939177062	The Baker's Boy (Book of Words) (Vol I)	Books	1	2	17	N	N	DISGUSTING	Well, here's another female who can't write fantasy. One point that I'd like to point out to all of you is this: this story is NOT ORIGINAL. This is just a CLONE of Tad William's DRAGONBONE CHAIR (part of the Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn series). And I might add that Dragonbone was written in the early 90's, whereas this was written in the mid-90's. Both storylines are essentially the same--young orphan in a castle has connections with someone higher up, gets involved in adventure, becomes hero, etc, etc, etc. But that was not what really turned me off about this book. J.V. Jones is so DISGUSTING. And I read stuff by the oh-so-controversial Harlan Ellison, too. Why, this book starts off disgusting and doesn't get much better. I've tackled all sorts of fantasy writers--look at my reviews if you don't believe me--and J.V. Jones is absolutely one of the worst. I stopped reading this book before page 100. If you're smart, you'll do the same.	2001-06-14
US	45374251	R2M37BBI7G13XO	0451452615	511955488	Bored of the Rings: A Parody of J. R. R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings	Books	4	5	7	N	N	BRILLIANT PARODY	I first heard of Bored of the Rings when I read an excerpt in the Faber Book of Parodies. I absolutely loved it. And just yesterday I was pleased to see that Bored of the Rings was actually a book, not a short story. I didn't have the $ to get it, but I did skim through it--laughing OFTEN. And I would have laughed LOUD if it weren't for the fact that I'd soon have every eye in the store on me--I don't like too much attention. Humor, as we all know, is a hard thing to do. Most movies and books are funny in parts, but the rest lags. With BOTR, just about every page brough a laugh, at the very least a smile. The rhyming poetry is terrific. Yes, the book is raunchy at times, but it was written quite a while back when books were still somewhat edited for content. I strongly disagree with the people who hate this book because they think it's &quot;sacrelige&quot;. Tolkien is a mortal, not a god. Get a life. Better yet, get a sense of humor. Get this book.	2001-06-12
US	45374251	RK2KBU6PX653B	042510107X	34724671	Red Storm Rising	Books	3	4	5	N	N	RED STORM LAGGING	Look, if a guy who reads mostly sci-fi and fantasy can understand this book, just about anybody should be able to--technical jibberish and all. Unless you've been living in a cave for the past 10 years. Yes, I did find the book's size intimidating, but once you start reading about the oil rig, things really start to heat up. After that, the book is a series of ups and downs. It starts to get boring, and just before you want to toss it aside, it starts to get interesting. You feel like you're riding a sine wave on an oscilloscope. This book could have used a condensing job. But considering it was Clancy's second book, it wasn't that bad. I prefered Hunt for Red October and Cardinal of the Kremlin. If you are a hard-core Clancy fan, then you must read this, if not, you might want to give it a try anyway.	2001-06-10
US	45374251	R1MRM6JMMROYO5	0312940181	824033982	Approaching Oblivion: Road Signs on the Treadmill Toward Tomorrow	Books	3	3	3	N	N	THANKFULLY IT'S SMALL	Having read lots of Harlan Ellison's collections, I can honestly say that this one is not one of his best. You won't find any Hugo-award winners in here, folks. Of course, I've read LOTS of Harlan stories that DIDN'T win awards and were absolutely WONDERFUL. There is one such story in this collection that comes to mind--Erotophobia. Remember the opening scene of Austin Powers? Where he's being chased by all these women. That's the basic idea for that story. Absolutely hilarious. As for the rest of the stories in this book, I didn't find any that were Harlan at his worst. Even the story Catman, the longest and least enjoyable of the bunch had a little something to it. I wouldn't recommend that first time Harlan-readers start here, though. But for those of us that have read our Harlan, this is definitely worth getting.	2001-05-28
US	45374251	R23SBW33Z1UI01	0380633132	677758129	We	Books	3	5	9	N	N	BIOSPHERE 2 GONE BAD	The main character, D-503, realizes something interesting: he has a soul. And it just so happens that he's the head-honcho behind the development of a spaceship called the Integral. In this &quot;utopia&quot; people live in glass domes--what an Arizonan like me would call a biosphere--and have no privacy, expect for certain special times. So there is definitely a heavy science fiction aspect to this work, quite amazing for 1920-21 Russia. One thing that really stuck out was how believable the main character--D-503--was. As a mathematician, he thinks in numbers and geometrical shape. Instead of saying of a table, &quot;it looked like a wooden animal&quot;, he might say something like, &quot;it looked like a rectangle sitting atop four cylinders.&quot; A small detail, but one worth noticing. As in Brave New World and 1984, the ending line has the power of a knife being driven into your stomach. I'll disagree that WE is better overall than BNW and 1984, but it a good book in its own little way. The writing style can be a little clunky--as is usually the case with translated works--but not terribly so. Yes, this is a good book, well worth your time, effort, and money.	2001-05-28
US	45374251	RAP2J9PH4ACDY	1853261750	187016080	The Idiot (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	42	46	N	N	RUSSIAN BOOKS: UNREADABLE?	Most of us have probably heard the phrase, &quot;Why, that was as unreadable as a Russian novel!&quot; Of course, they're probably thinking about Tolstoy's War and Peace. The fact of the matter is this: I was 18 or 19, in AP English, VERY skeptical about these so-called &quot;classics&quot;. But then we read Notes from Underground and my view of Russian literature was permanently changed. As a matter of fact, I liked NfU SO much that I read THE IDIOT of my own initiative and--get this--liked it MORE than NfU. Hey, how can you resist a story about a diseased Prince who's coming home to Russia after being in an Asylum? There were just so many quotable and likable passages in this book. My bookmark soon became full with page numbers. Towards the beginning, the Prince and a servant have an interesting conversation concerning one of Dostoyevsky's main interests: Crime and Punishment. That particular scene details a French execution. Quite a while later, Dostoyevsky retells that French execution story and DOES IT BETTER THAN THE FIRST TIME.  But the book is not always serious. One of the things that I like about Dostoyevsky is that he has a dark sense of humor. You would too, if you were in debt, epileptic, and were spared from the firing squad AT THE LAST SECOND. I laughed out loud when I got to the part about the Cigar and Poodle. You'll find it in Chapter 9 or so. Also, there's a character named Prince S. Now THAT is a pun. Of course, being a tranlated work, who's to say whether it was intentional or not? Yes, this is a very long book, but I REALLY enjoyed it. Hopefully you'll come to agree.	2001-05-27
US	45374251	R2Z5ZA3YL4N14F	0292715498	169416369	Dreamtigers (Texas Pan American Series)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	GREAT INTRODUCTION TO BORGES'S SHORTER WORKS	I give this book 4 stars because I honestly don't feel that it's his best collection. That honor would go to his collection of short stories entitled, THE BOOK OF SAND. LABYRINTHS comes in a close second or third. But for the beginning Borges reader, this is an EXCELLENT place to start. The book is divided into two primary parts: Borges's parables and super-short stories; and his poems. There's nothing over three pages long in here, except the introduction. Naturally, I found lots of quotable lines and paragraphs in this work. The translation is very good, too. It definitely sounds like Borges, and the tranlators even manage to get some of his poems to rhyme while still getting across that Borgesian feeling. You'd almost think that all of this stuff was written in English to begin with. Assuming you haven't read Borges, he's very intellectual, knows lots about history and books, and loves to write on the subjects of tigers, yellow, blindness, Dante, Martin Fierro, and *the other Borges*. Hope you like this book.	2001-05-23
US	45374251	RHJ1Y11XPSK13	0937986127	166133079	The Iron Man	Books	5	3	3	N	N	HOWARD'S BOXING STORIES	Even I, a REH fan, was wondering how a boxing yarn could be any good. I was expecting just a bunch of in-ring action with the only differences from story to story being the fighters and who won. Far from it. This book starts off with an essay entitled Men of Iron, where Howard asks the question: &quot;What freak of nature makes an iron man?&quot; I personally didn't find the essay all that interesting==but the rest of the book makes up for that. The first story is The Iron Man. In my opinion, it's the best in the book. While I read it, I couldn't help but think of the B and W movie Champion with Kirk Douglas. Iron Man has got one whopper of a storyline. Next up is They Always Come Back. This is the second story in the book, and the second best. There's a few nice twists in this story, though. Finally, there's Fists of the Desert. After reading that story, I really felt like I'd been punched in the stomach. That one is the third best of the bunch. This is a hard book to find--even in paparback--but if you see it, pick it up--you won't be disappointed.	2001-05-17
US	45374251	R1WBXHVKTT1K6B	044021680X	718061775	Gai-Jin (Asian Saga)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	IN DEFENSE OF MR. CLAVELL	Don't expect Shogun. But considering that this 1000+ page monster was written by an aging man, he did a very commendable job. As a matter of fact, he even managed to shock me--REALLY shock me--with that scene after the wedding night. You'll KNOW what I mean when you get there. The characters are somewhat likable and you should have no problem differentiating between who's who. I didn't read it as fast as Shogun, but I still read it. Another part that I really like is this huge run-on-sentence dealing with politics. Bear in mind that Clavell is obviously not Japanese, so, despite his research, don't expect complete authenticity. If you want that, read some works by Eiji Yoshikawa. In the end, apart from a few failings, this book is fairly entertaining and might make good reading while you wait for that special book from your favorite author to come out.	2001-05-16
US	45374251	R23SVM48A4B4Y9	0886773741	361362638	Tailchaser's Song	Books	2	5	21	N	N	TAILCHASER'S INFERNO	I love books. I love cats. I decided to read a book about cats. Tailchaser's Song. This was before I read Watership Down. But even then, I didn't find this book all that great. There are two parts that REALLY drag this book down. 1) the part where Fritty goes to that cat-mound-hell-underground place whatever. It reminded me of Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom and Dante's Inferno. Too dark. Too depressing. Too boring. 2) The ending wa a BIG letdown. Fritty went all that way only to discover THIS! Sure it's a surprise ending, but it's the type of surprise ending that makes you sick. The way I felt after reading the last line in Orwell's 1984. Finally, let me ask you this: Which book sounds more interesting: Tailchaser's Song, where a male cat is trying to find his missing she-cat OR Watership Down, where some rabbits are trying to escape extinction both by man and their own kind. Read WATERSHIP DOWN by Richard Adams. THAT is a good animal-as-main-character book. This isn't.	2001-05-16
US	45374251	RSQIXBSB910G9	0375700757	11590154	Cold Mountain: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	JUST MISSES BEING A CLASSIC	My curiousity was piqued when I saw this book in the number 1 position on the bestseller lists. I almost NEVER read the newer bestsellers--there's too many of them and most of them are mysteries or romance. But the blurb about this book made it sound interesting. Something about a wounded soldier trying to get back to his girl during the Civil War. I'd tried reading the Red Badge of Courage--and failed. But I figured that I had to read at least one Civil War book so I may as well read this one. I was grabbed by the beginning--especially the part where the gunner left the ram-rod in his gun and fired anyway! That was just one of MANY surprises in this book. Not all were good, in my opinion, hence the 4 stars. This book is serious, funny, raunchy, you name it. I especially remember the part where Inman faces the firing squad--but I'm stopping there. If you want to know more, read this book for yourself. One last point, I don't care how accurately the author portrays the Civil War era. All I (usually) look for in a book is ENTERTAINMENT. This book delivers.	2001-05-14
US	45374251	R1B8HJIBV1B6WH	0553264273	254022196	Sword of the Samurai	Books	5	7	7	N	N	HISTORICAL CHOOSE-YOUR-OWN-ADVENTURE	As a kid, I was a huge fan of the Time Machine series. They were like the Choose Your Own Adventure series, but so much better because of the following reasons: 1- Almost all of them are based on FACT. This book mentions A BOOK OF FIVE RINGS by famous swordsman Miyamoto Musashi. As it turns out, that book actually exists, as did the author. This book also mentions how Musashi died in a cave towards the end of his life--also true. 2- Instead of CYOA, you get to pick one or two of several items to take with you on your quest. Depending what you took with you will determine what action you have to take later on. 3- The books are illustrated. 4- To add more educational value, timelines and other neat stuff are enclosed towards the beginning. 5- Basically, the storyline to this books is this: You go back in time to accomplish the following mission: bring back Miyamoto Musashi's sword. You can try and steal it or just ask for it. It sounds easy, but it's not. I highly recommend not just this book, but this whole series for its wholesomeness, fun, and educational value. Many books try and be accurate, enjoyable, and educational, but this book SUCCEEDS.	2001-05-07
US	45374251	R2LVWA5GX526YG	0553272004	487540900	Civil War Secret Agent (Time Machine, No. 5)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	GLAD I READ IT	When you read this Choose Your Own Adventure-type book, you'll get more than an adventure. More than 10 years later, I still remember most of the storyline. But most importantly, this book introduces you to one of the many unsung Civil War heroes: Harriet Tubman. She was perhaps the best known member of the Underground Railroad and the fiction-based-on-fact adventures that you go through with her are really amazing. Every time I hear her name in history class my ear perk up because I know who they're talking about. Very educational, very fun to read. Wish it was still in print. If you find a copy, buy it and like the scorpion--don't-let-go!	2001-05-07
US	45374251	R2QDIS7LXYI2Y5	0811209059	414314422	Seven Nights (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	SEVEN NIGHTS READS IN A DAY	This is slightly over a hundred pages, but it is chock full of gems. By Seven Nights, Borges is referring to seven lectures that he gave at night. Now these aren't verbatim what he said, but fairly close. Here's my short breakdown of the Seven Nights and what I thought of them: FIRST NIGHT: THE DIVINE COMEDY. If you've never read Dante's Divine Comedy, this lecture will certainly pique your interest, as it did mine. Most memorable in this lecture is Borges' statement about &quot;what is poetry?&quot;. Very well-worded and very quotable, that part is. SECOND NIGHT: NIGHTMARES. Borges quotes some from a few psychology books, discusses Dante's Inferno, and relates a humorous personal experience that he (Borges) had. He tops it off with a chilling ending paragraph. THIRD NIGHT: THE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS. Also known as the ARABIAN NIGHTS. I love his explaination as to why it got called 1001 instead of 999. To sorta paraphrase him, he says that if you only got 999, you'd feel like you're being shortchanged. If you get 1001, you feel like you're getting a little bonus tossed in. I haven't read the Arabian Nights, but I can't help but feel curiousity after reading that lecture. FOURTH NIGHT: BUDDHISM. To be honest, I didn't glean much from this lecture, as I don't really understand Buddhism. For others, though, the experience may be different. FIFTH NIGHT: POETRY. Borges concentrates mostly on Banchs and Quevedo. Spanish poets, that I'm aware of. Borges is Argentine, by the way, so don't feel too bad if those names don't sound familiar. There are some good points in this lecture, but not, in my opinion, as compared to others. SIXTH NIGHT: THE KABBALAH. I know nothing really about Kabbalism, but I was interested in two words that may sound familiar--especially to you video-gamers out there: Sefirot and Jehovah. If you've played Final Fantasy 7, then you know that the antagonist's name is Sephiroth and that his mother's name is Jenovah. A direct parallel, beyond all doubt.In this lecture are also some other good points about God and His Word. SEVENTH NIGHT: BLINDNESS. Isn't it ironic that Borges should end the night with blindness? For those of you who don't know, Borges was blind, so he's speaking from experience. Poe, Coleridge, and Milton are some of the poets mentioned in this lecture. Borges discusses the origins of some words like &quot;yellow&quot;. Yellow was one color that Borges could see fairly well when he was partially blind. FINAL JUDGEMENT: This is a really good book if you want page-turning lectures on a wide variety of subjects, some of which may be new to you. Keep in mind that these are LECTURES and not short stories. If this book didn't meet your expectations, then I recommend that you read THE BOOK OF SAND by the same author. Hope you like his books, I sure do!	2001-05-05
US	45374251	R1PPWKQSNDE0KU	4770019572	253609147	Musashi	Books	4	5	8	N	N	MOVE OVER LANCELOT	To this day, I'm not even sure if there was a real Lancelot or if he was a fictitious character all along. But I do know this: Miyamoto Musashi was a real person. Proof? He wrote the BOOK OF FIVE RINGS. In fact it's sitting on my shelf as I write. And Musashi is undoubtedly the BEST swordsman who EVER lived. Sure he killed 50 or 60+ people in his lifetime, but what is really amazing are the circumstances under which he did those things. In this book, you'll see Musashi take on an entire swordfighting school! Guys with muskets! Angry mobs. His guard doesn't even fall when he's in the bathtub of all places. And then there's the ending. And from what I've read, it is mostly fact. A swordfight that was SO BIG that it had to be held on a seperate island. Of course Musashi wins, otherwise he wouldn't be the best. But it's HOW he wins in that last fight. It's truly amazing. I wish more books and movies would end the way this book does. Now, I'll admit that this book is VERY LONG. 900+ pages. I even found that it moved slower than TAIKO by the same author, yet somehow I finished MUSASHI fairly quickly. So what's the plot? A young village brat has had his first taste of war. His side lost. He goes back, gets in trouble and he ends up in a monastery or somesuchplace for 2 years. He comes out, a changed man and decides to become a swordfighter. How does he get better? Fight others! There are a few female characters in this book that add an extra dimension to the work. Although most of the rest of the book is traveling and fighting, at least it's varied. By the way, I have read SHOGUN, which is also a great book, but I like MUSASHI because it gives a JAPANESE perspective on how things were back then. By the way, MUSASHI starts where SHOGUN left off. Sekigahara. Apart from the ending, the other part that really sticks out in my mind in this book is the end of the first book--earth. To me, that last paragraph or two is the best example of &quot;showing, not telling.&quot; I had to read it several times at first and I was wondering if the author knew what he was doing. Then I finally figured it out and it was BRILLIANT! Anyway, if you're a history-buff, Japanophile, interested in sword-fighting, etc. then this book is for you!	2001-05-02
US	45374251	R34GWCWICSZ9VW	0425071065	707857290	Dr. Futurity	Books	3	1	1	N	N	KINDA GOOD, KINDA BAD	Well, as you can probably tell, this is not a very well-known much less well-read PKD novel. It was published in 1960, hardly the height of his career. Other reviewers made this book sound as if it wasn't all that good, so I was surprised that the first third of the book was actually pretty good. Basically, there's this doctor named Jim Parsons driving down Hwy 101 when suddenly his car runs off the side of the road. And then he finds himself in the future. I like how PKD described the future: a rather primitive Bladerunner world is the closest I can compare it to. In the future, you're not supposed to heal people--i.e. doctors are bad--you just let them die. There are no elderly people and little or no disease. In a way this book is very prophetic, since the elderly are increasingly losing their status. But shortly after the doctor's arrival, the plot takes a nosedive. It reads really quickly, much more so than the Penultimate Truth, which I think is PKD at his worst. My problem with this book is this: A mystery-type book is confusing enough. Add in the element of time-travel going both ways and it's VERY easy to get confused. Stupid paradoxes. As a rule of thumb, I try and steer clear of time-travel subjects, the exceptions being the Terminator movies. Anyway, this book is okay. I'm glad that I have it in my PKD library, but if you want to read a better story with a little mystery and science fiction intertwined, read A Maze of Death by PKD instead.	2001-04-28
US	45374251	RHBQDQ15E9S3J	0451628047	22760455	The Divine Comedy: Volume 1: The Inferno	Books	5	6	6	N	N	700 YEAR OLD MASTERPIECE . . .	I just finished reading Dante's Inferno a couple minutes ago. This is the first time I've read it, and I must say that I was very impressed with it. It exceeded my expectations. I'm aware that there are other translations out there, but I picked up this one because it rhymes and reads--for the most part--easily. Some of the Italian names are hard to pronounce, but that's a minor thing in the long run. I've read some long poems where not much seems to happen since the poet just rambles on and on about the scenery. But in The Inferno, every tercet is important. I'm most surprised at how good this work is even though it is 700 years old. There is A LOT of Italian characters and history in here, but you don't HAVE to know anything about Italy in order to enjoy this book--although it sure would help. I will agree with one other reviewer that going from circle to circle can get a bit redundant: go to the next circle, talk to the people, describe things, go to the next circle, etc. But the people and descriptions always change as you go on. And in Dante's Hell, the further you go, the worse it gets. Here's how I think The Inferno should be read: Very slowly. Not in one gulp. Enjoy each Canto--maybe one a day. That is--haha--if you can &quot;enjoy&quot; a trip to Hell. Finally, I love the part about Minos and his tail, the fiery walls that surround Hell, the disgustingness and violence that is found in Hell. If you're still deciding whether or not to read this book, don't hesitate. They don't call it a Masterpiece for nothing . . . .	2001-04-21
US	45374251	R5RQON19LVKQT	0312862199	534145800	The World of Robert Jordan's The Wheel of Time	Books	3	25	29	N	N	WHY NOW?	I'm a BIG WoT fan--I own all the books--which is why I couldn't resist the urge to buy this book. The main reason why I got it is because I've always been fascinated about the lands of the Seanchan and Shara. Although the book doesn't tell you much about those lands, there are MAPS of the WHOLE WORLD. There are Age of Legends maps and present-day maps. As for the artwork, it is not that good. The only picture that does a good job of resembling a character is the one of Lanfear. Now keep in mind that everyone's idea of &quot;beautiful&quot; will differ. Also keep in mind that Lanfear has different shades of beauty. The reason why I like that picture is because it makes Lanfear look attractive--at least--BUT AT THE SAME TIME you can see her potential for evil. It's that dark look in her eyes. As for the book itself, you'd expect more from Robert Jordan. I've heard somewhere that his pile of NOTES is TWICE as large as the whole series. If that's the case, I wonder what he's leaving out. I like the 7 book covers enclosed in the middle--but you can't take them out without damaging a very expensive book. These book cover pictures don't have the lettering, just the picture, and they take up two pages apiece. I just wish that they would have been made into tear-out posters. Finally, I don't understand why Robert Jordan published this book when the series wasn't even done yet. Tolkien was smart enough not to do that. In short, when the series IS done, you can bet that Robert Jordan will have to crank out ANOTHER textbook with ALL the covers and everything else. All in all, I'd say that ONLY HARDCORE WoT fans should get this book, if not for the artwork then for the narrative. Or, better yet, wait for the FINAL (?) textbook-like Wheel of Time book to come out.	2001-04-20
US	45374251	R3MI6OVL76H0W5	0679752986	865862753	A Maze of Death	Books	5	23	26	N	N	CLUE in space	This is definitely in my top ten list of PKD's best. Here's the basic storyline: An odd group of people find themselves on a planet called Delmak-O. Just as they're about find out what they're there for, the satellite that's supposed to tell them does something strange, leaving them in the dark. Now, clueless as to their reason for being here, they try and find a way to regain communication. But then something else happens. Slowly, they start dying off, and no one knows who is killing who. It sorta reminded me of the movie CLUE. At first you might think that this is just a murder-mystery in space. WRONG. The ending was EXTREMELY unpredictable, but EXTREMELY brilliant. This story could only have come from one of SF's masters, PKD. There are a lot of characters to keep track of, but his character development is good enough that you can tell who's who most of the time. I can't believe that this book didn't win an award or something, it's really great. If you find it, read it and enjoy!	2001-04-07
US	45374251	R31R2VV2BVTQOW	0380703882	948818246	Communion: A True Story	Books	4	3	6	N	N	FACT OR FICTION???	Personally, I am open-minded on the subject of alien abductions and UFO's. I know to some that the above is &quot;hogwash&quot;, but listen up, back in the cave man days, walking on the moon was ALSO &quot;hogwash.&quot; Thousands of years later, believing that the SUN was the center of the universe was &quot;hogwash.&quot; Breaking the sound barrier was &quot;hogwash,&quot; too, to some. All I'm saying is: If he's telling the truth, fine. If not, then he's one good liar. He hasn't convinced me, but he didn't make any obvious boo-boos to discredit his tale.  Basically, this story is about author Whitley Strieber and his supposed encounters with aliens. Most of the action takes place around his getaway cabin in New York. If you look at Mr. Strieber's other works (Warday, the Wolfen, etc.), you'll see that writing about aliens is sorta outta the way for him. It would be like a romance author suddenly writing Techno-thrillers. It just doesn't make sense. Of course, some authors ARE very versatile. THE BOTTOM LINE IS THIS: Whether you believe in aliens or not, this is a very fun read. As a matter of fact, I've gotten several good ideas from his other books in the same series. Read the book for yourself, then decide, or stay open-minded, as I am.	2001-04-05
US	45374251	R1K1UA3QFU8Q1V	0192836560	164999662	Vathek (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	FANTASY / GOTHIC / ARABIAN NIGHTS	Those are the three categories that I've seen this story put in. Vathek tells the tale about a man with an exceedingly high tower. This man named Vathek is very greedy. The reading can be a little rough at times, which is why I took off one star, but there are some very memorable scenes. Two that really stick out in my mind are: When the stranger in the dungeon escapes. And when Vathek ascends his tall tower, thinking how tall he stands over his minions--then he looks up at the stars and grimaces, because the stars are still the same distance away. Both of these scenes are towards the beginning, which I think is the best part of the book. The middle details Vathek's journey to some far off place. But then it picks up again towards the end. I don't normally read Gothics--if this IS a Gothic, opinions vary--but it is a very good book and definitely one I plan on adding to my permanent collection. Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges gave enthusiastic mention to this book in one of his works.	2001-04-05
US	45374251	R1CQXNU5FADYCT	0451451384	984290410	The Summer Tree (Fionavar Tapestry)	Books	3	6	16	N	N	THE SUMMER READ	After reading TIGANA, I decided to read the first book in this acclaimed series. I did manage to read the whole book, which is one good thing, because the really bad books I stop reading as soon as they get boring. In short, the book does keep your attention. I think most of this is due to the book's originality. Sure, the OTHER WORLD apart from OUR WORLD may not be so original--Zelazny's Chronicles of Amber comes to mind--but there are other parts that ARE original. The hunter in the wild fields. The overall storyline about five young ones going to a world they don't understand. The summer tree itself. One thing that I noticed was that Kay used FAR too many commas in this book. Some sentences, sorta look, like this. In the end, this is only a mediocre fantasy novel, especially when compared to the works being cranked out by such heavy-hitters as Robert Jordan, Terry Goodkind, and George R. R. Martin.	2001-04-04
US	45374251	R31I1SETKP4B84	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	GOOD, BUT DERIVATIVE	THE GOOD: This book flows pretty fast, with only a few exceptional areas. Some of the dialogue is really witty and fun to read. Characters are very distinguished, if a bit stereotyped--the handsome hero, the beautiful heroine, the buff companion, the old but powerful wizard, etc.  THE BAD: Map is NOTHING compared to Robert Jordan's map of the world. Just three rows of mountains, sprinkle some towns here and there, and call it good. Mr. Goodkind tells us how dangerous the Midlands are, then, when the characters DO get to the Midlands, he jumps them many miles ahead to the Mud People. They go all that way without meeting ANY opposition? Get real. Finally, the ending was a let-down. Not much of a reward after reading several hundred pages. THE UGLY: Comparing Eye of the World to this book, EOTW wins, hands down. What really detracted from me giving this 5 stars is that so much of it is STOLEN from Robert Jordan. The leash idea, the confrontation between the wizardly figure and the villagers, the man in the village who is the ONLY one who can save the world, etc. Then there's this 40 page torture scene that really slows the book down. I want entertainment, not torture. The part where Richard falls for the &quot;I'm your dead mother&quot; trick is really lame, especially when he falls for a similar trick 5 pages before! Finally, the book says that the reason why the antagonist doesn't go after the protagonist is because &quot;he's like a fly--you don't swat it until it bothers you.&quot; Excuse me? Are all bad guys that stupid? There is one GLARING flaw with that analogy--FLIES CAN'T KILL YOU, HEROES CAN. If the fly had malaria, well, maybe, but this is a WIZARD we're dealing with.  OTHER NOTES: For those of you who say this book is disgusting or gross, get real. You obviously haven't read as much as you think you have. I've read FAR worse stuff, making this only mild in comparison. Finally, if it weren't for so many spin-offs of RJ's works, then this would have been a good book. I would definitely say it's worth reading once, but I'll disagree with anyone that it's better than EYE OF THE WORLD, which was written 4 years prior.	2001-04-04
US	45374251	R203JIFRQYOGFZ	0877736618	905468465	I Ching: The Book of Change (Shambhala Pocket Classics)	Books	4	5	13	N	N	a very AUSPICIOUS work	If you don't know what the word AUSPICIOUS means, then you better go find out because this book uses that word A LOT. As for the translation, it's adequate, but I've heard of better translations. The book's a tad bit smaller than a 3 x 5 card, which makes this a TRUE pocketbook. Also, Mr. Cleary mentions how you consult the I Ching based on how you perceive the situation. &quot;Oh, I feel like this situation is a Wind over Fire situation.&quot; That'll refer you to hexagram 37--People in the Home. This book beats you over the head how it is AUSPICIOUS to &quot;see great people&quot; and &quot;cross great rivers.&quot; It will also tell you if some situations are good luck or bad luck. Overall, this is a pretty decent book of wisdom (I like how your mood depends on what hexagram you get), but I don't think it can compare to the Book of Proverbs which is more to the point. Anyway, give this book a try as there is some good stuff in it.	2001-04-04
US	45374251	R1T10NTNGXLED0	0451457765	446908784	Tigana: Anniversary Edition	Books	5	4	7	N	N	EXCELLENT STAND-ALONE FANTASY NOVEL	I don't recall how I came to read this book, but I'm most glad that I did. Of all the many fantasy novels that I've read, this is one of the few that deserves the title ORIGINAL. There is not one evil wizard, but TWO! And both want the same piece of land. There is an excellent scene involving a cabin. As is explained in the introduction, this was a very important part of the book, and one of the best parts. Something very shocking and unexpected happens there. Another part I like involved a corn-field at night and a really exciting battle. Then, to top it all off, there's a surprise ending. Lots of memorable characters, well-written narrative and dialogue. This book has lots of Italian undertones going through it. Pronunciation, etc. Unlike some of Kay's other works, this one reads really easily.	2001-04-04
US	45374251	R33UJB0RWLK7G6	0345391810	458212829	The Restaurant at the End of the Universe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	LAUGH OUT LOUD HILARIOUS	This is the book that introduced me to Douglas Adams and his wacky sense of humor. At first I had no idea what was going on the book, but it was a thin book so I decided to keep reading. The one part that really makes this book memorable--and worth reading--is the end. There are few books that can make me laugh out loud. This is one of them.	2001-04-03
US	45374251	R7I3HWSJ95LRO	0395285879	996344946	SHATTERDAY	Books	5	4	6	N	N	SHATTERDAY STORIES FOR SATURDAY	This is the perfect book to read during the weekend. Help yourself to a healthy helping of Harlan, the short story master. Unlike some of his collections (Deathbird Stories, Angry Candy) which deal with certain themes, Shatterday has a nice variety. What's really nice is that each of these stories is prefaced by an introduction, which is both entertaining and informative. Now for my personal favorites: FLOP SWEAT: an impromptu short-story that Harlan wrote in 6 hours appears unedited here. It deals with a radio talk show host and an evil guest. COUNT THE CLOCK THAT TELLS THE TIME: A very moving piece of fiction that shows us the value of LIVING our lives instead of just wasting our time. I believe this one won an award, and rightly so. There were several other stories that I found enjoyable in this book, but the two mentioned above are the ones I like best. These stories certainly make this book worth reading.	2001-04-03
US	45374251	R2ZQVKR5RUY9WC	0140157344	335507424	At Dawn We Slept: The Untold Story of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	12	16	N	N	DEFINITIVE story of Pearl Harbor, from both sides	Gordon W. Prange spent 50 YEARS of his life working on the topic of Pearl Harbor. NO ONE has even come close to that. By the way, this is not his only book concerning Pearl Harbor, either, but it does cover both sides of the ocean. I read this book because I'm a war history buff at times and the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor is one event that really sparks my interest. It is because of books like this that I hate mandatory-schooling textbooks. They always give you a biased opinion. But when I read tihs book, I was shocked at the HUNDREDS of things that this book points out that I've never thought of before. Some examples: The preparation BEFORE the attack, the SPIES, the FAULTS on BOTH SIDES during the attack, and the AFTERMATH. A very shocking book and definitely one that I plan to put on my shelf of permanent-resident books.	2001-04-02
US	45374251	R2Y7U92P155O9E	0836218515	183687804	The PreHistory of The Far Side:: A 10th Anniversary Exhibit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	THE TITLE SAYS IT ALL	When it comes to making someone laugh in as few pen-strokes as possible, there's no doubt that Gary Larson is the master. If you're just getting introduced to the Far Side, this is a great book to start with. It shows some of his really early cartoons, his rejected cartoons, his personal favorites (some in color), and also a few rough sketches. Not familiar with the Far Side? Gary Larson picks such themes as cows, animals, everyday situations, impossible situations, aliens, dinosaurs, you name it, he's got it. For die-hard Larson fans, this is a must-buy.	2001-04-02
US	45374251	R3OJRCDGRVZ3E4	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	on ON WRITING	This is not so much a how-to-write book as it is a--as the title of the book states--memoir of the craft. The book is divided into three parts, at least in my mind. The first part of the book is a bit of an autobiography. To some people, this is unnecessary, but King does draw some EXCELLENT parallels that make his second part--the part on writing--a lot more visual and helpful. The toolbox and fossil parallels especially so. To top it all off and bring this book to its grand finale, King gives us the first, unedited draft of a short story he's written. Then he edits it, and presents to us the sloppy second draft. Too many times I think people are under the impression that writers crank out perfect first drafts, when in reality they're really dreadful looking. Finally, although I haven't always been all that impressed by Mr. King's works, I really enjoyed this book (finished it in two days)and felt that it really clarified some things that I've always wondered about. Though this book is good for aspiring writers, you'd be better off reading THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE first, as Mr. King highly recommends it and mentions it often in his book. Then go back and read this one.	2001-04-01
US	45374251	R1OZ51GZ8328D1	0345350804	109454413	The Best of H. P. Lovecraft: Bloodcurdling Tales of Horror and the Macabre	Books	4	11	14	N	N	the best KNOWN of H.P. Lovecraft	Let's face it, everyone's idea of the &quot;best of HPL&quot; is going to differ greatly. Personally, I thought that most the book did pick out his best stories. My favorites are: Pickman's Model, the Rats in the Walls, The Colour Out of Space, the Shadow Out of Time, the Dunwich Horror, and a few others. I think that this book just inserted the best known stories of HPL, not necessarily his best work. I haven't read all of his stuff, but I've read this book and THE TOMB AND OTHER TALES. I didn't find the stories in The Tomb all that interesting. So from that standpoint, yes, this book is easily some of HPL's best. When it comes to HPL's writing style, I find that sometimes his stories flow really well, and sometimes they drag on. HPL has . . . a tendency to . . . write . . . like this . . . when a . . . character is . . . dying. Very . . . slow and . . . tedious . . . if you ask me. Butothertimeshisstoriesarejusttheoppositeandreadlikemodern-dayworks--veryfast. I haven't read as much horror as many of you out there, but I think it'd be safe to say that HPL was one of the best horror writers--in the top ten or so. Just keep in mind that he wrote in the days when long-windedness was acceptable. This book is definitely worth your time and money.	2001-03-30
US	45374251	R32CE15TKTGN9Z	0345336615	572091602	The Tomb and Other Tales	Books	3	2	2	N	N	NOT LOVECRAFT'S BEST	I guess THE BEST OF H.P. LOVECRAFT spoiled me. When I got to this book, I found the stories not near as frightening or appealing. There are some fragments in this book, though, and the most important thing is that they ARE fragments. No pastiche authors here, thank you. Then there's a part of the book showing off some of HPL's earlier work. It's interesting to compare his earlier work with his later work, to see how he matured as a writer. By the way, did you know that HPL ghost-wrote a story for HARRY HOUDINI? I didn't either, until I read this book. I give this book 3 stars because I feel that only books that are TRULY OUTSTANDING deserve 4 or 5 stars. Only books that are absolutely terrible and have no merit deserve 1 or 2. So I give this book a conservative 3 stars.	2001-03-30
US	45374251	RB5DI1U9R11XL	0312966121	650875554	Hostile Waters	Books	5	7	9	N	N	HOSTILE WATERS--AN UNTOLD STORY	Maybe you remember. The book says something to the extent that, &quot;a certain event almost jeopardized the summit meeting with Reagan and Gorbechav.&quot; This book tells you what that event was. It is a TRUE story. A very haunting story, and I'm one who lives in southern Arizona, far away from the scene of this event. This book is like a Hunt for Red October from hell. I won't tell you ANYTHING about what happens, because it is important that you read this yourself. Another classic example of our government hiding things from us hard-working blue-collar workers. Another amazing thing about this story is that IT READS LIKE A NOVEL, but it isn't. At the end, I found myself CHEERING for the RUSSIANS because the Americans were (sorry) so STUPID and SELFISH. To many people, &quot;russians&quot; is synonymous with &quot;evil&quot;. I hope this book changes your view of the Russians, as it changed mine--they are no better or worse than we are, as we are all human beings.	2001-03-29
US	45374251	ROWRNX5OK388	0788163205	461867337	Game over: How Nintendo Zapped an American Industry, Captured Your Dollars, & Enslaved Your Children	Books	4	4	5	N	N	THE HISTORY OF NINTENDO	Despite the title, that's basically what this book covers. From Nintendo's origins as a tobacco and card company in the late 1800's to the video game superpower that it was in the 80's and early 90's. I guess in that respect, this book is THE RIGHT STUFF of the growth-of-Nintendo books. I had to flick off a star because I had to read a part of this twice. I started reading it, got halfway, then had to quit for some reason. But I did make a point of returning to this fascinating book and finishing it. If you are (or were) a big fan of Nintendo, or are interested in the video game industry, then by all means read this book. Like I say, it's more of a history lesson than an anti-video game book. In fact, the dedication at the beginning is about as anti-video game as this book gets. Personally, I love video games, although I will admit that sometimes they are mindless and get out of hand. But it's the PARENTS' responsibility to teach their kids MORALS, instead of giving them 40 dollars to go do with as they please.	2001-03-29
US	45374251	R3RS73G5QA1NTZ	0061007226	257277061	The Exorcist	Books	5	9	11	N	N	the ULTIMATE battle between GOOD and EVIL	Forget THE STAND. Forget, even, THE LORD OF THE RINGS. THIS is BY FAR, the best interpretation of a battle between GOOD and EVIL. No, I haven't seen the movie, but even if I did, the book would deserve an EASY 5 stars. It is very OBVIOUS that Blatty did his homework--like he said, he read EVERY book on exorcism in the English language. The story starts off in the middle east--or somewhere abouts. At first, you can't help but wondering what this has to do with the story--well, you'll find out towards the end. Once the prologue is done, the story talks about an actress and her daughter Regan, also known as &quot;Rags.&quot; Regan has an Ouija board. The actress mother and her maids start to notice things out of place. At first they think it's nothing. But then something happens that forces Regan's mother to take immediate action. About halfway through the book you meet a detective that might remind you of COLUMBO (Peter Falk). I guess it's the way he talked, and yes, it can get a wee bit annoying at times. As for the Exorcist, well, he doesn't appear until almost the very end, but it is definitely worth it. You can feel Blatty building up the suspense, page by page, until that final, horrific moment. All I'll say is that the end was very unpredictable, and I'm a person who is usually good about predicting endings before they happen. By the way, yes, this book is very vulgar and graphic at times, but on the other hand, most of it is done by the DEMON. This makes it believable. We're talking about a spawn of Satan, not some half-baked bum off the street with a fifth grade vocabulary and few morals. I finished this book in about two days, but I could have done it in one if it weren't for other things I had to attend to. This is a TRUE page-turner, but one that you'll want to read over and over again. I highly recommend this book.	2001-03-29
US	45374251	R1XAT2SBCF1RI4	0679734449	480135461	The Transmigration of Timothy Archer	Books	5	1	1	N	N	TIGHTLY WOVEN	The Transmigration of Timothy Archer is the third book of four that make up PKD's VALIS series. The fourth book is RADIO FREE ALBEMUTH, a posthumeous work. Unlike some of PKD's books, ToTA is very tightly woven--elements from early on in the book appear dozens of pages later on. PKD doesn't change gears halfway, like he did in THE PENULTIMATE TRUTH, where he started off getting us to believe one thing and then, halfway, wanted us to believe something else that contradicted what we just read. ToTA doesn't do this. The main characters in ToTA are: TIMOTHY ARCHER--a bishop. The story is entirely about him and his search for Christ--in the form of a mushroom. JEFF ARCHER--Tim's son. Jeff likes Kirsten. ANGEL ARCHER--Married to Jeff. Although the story is about Tim Archer, the entire story is told from her point of view.  KIRSTEN--Tim Archer's mistress. She feels that Angel, Tim's daughter-in-law, likes Tim. She is also the mother of  BILL--a hebephrenic who later gets a major part in the story. Some of PKD's books are hard to get into, but not this one. No sooner had I scanned the first page than I hunkered down and started to devour this novel. What's really ironic is that this is a VALIS book but it NOT ONCE mentions VALIS. But it DOES mention subliminal messages from elsewhere. This is a FICTION novel by PKD--you won't find conapts, plasteel, aliens, etc. Overall, this is a very good book that holds your attention all the way through.	2001-03-28
US	45374251	R1YWH0524JVNO0	0345339738	669379389	The Return of the King (The Lord of the Rings, Part 3)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	I WANT MORE!	In the last book of The Lord of the Rings, Frodo finally finishes his quest. There are some GREAT battle scenes in here and some really interesting characters. It's funny because I started to read this several years ago, got bored, and stopped. Then I started again sometime later and asked myself why I didn't keep going earlier. Anyway, the only reason why I flick off one star is because I felt the ending was a little disappointing. Actually, there are TWO endings in this book. The end of the Ring of Power and the end of the book. I have no problem with the end of the book--it's great, and leaves you begging more more, but in a good sense. The second ending, though, I felt was a little too abrupt, and worst of all, unbelievable. You'll see what I mean when you get there. Also, THERE IS NO PHYSICAL BATTLE WITH SAURON. Not that Tolkien ever implied a face-to-face battle with him, though, but I feel it would have made the book more interesting. To me, Sauron comes across as DUMB and WEAK. Let's get real--here's a guy who lets the ring get stolen from him at point-blank-range and now he makes ANOTHER mistake by not surrounding Mount Doom with enemies and UNDERESTIMATING Frodo and company. But apart from that, this book is really good--an excellent ending to an excellent series. But I wonder how it's going to stand up when Robert Jordan's series comes to an end.	2001-03-28
US	45374251	R1PXBSDI9T4TTG	1555211976	675970766	Edgar Allen Poe Complete Tales and Poems	Books	5	9	12	N	N	POE'S PROSE AND POEtry	I'm not sure which edition I'm doing a review for. Personally, I have the Dorset hardback edition (big book, large print, very nice!). As long as the copy you have has ALL of his works, then it's 5 stars, easy. I haven't read everything by him, but I'm working on it. I have finished all of his poems since they're at the front of the book. My favorite poems are: The Raven, The Conqueror Worm, El Dorado, and one that is often forgotten--Dream-Land. Have you ever heard the line (from the latter poem): &quot;I have reached these lands but newly/From an ultimate dim Thule--/From a wild wierd clime that lieth, sublime,/ Out of SPACE--out of TIME.&quot; You'll find that quoted mostly in fantasy and science fiction. As for his stories, I REALLY like (so far): The Murders on the Rue Morgue, A Tale of Jerusalem, William Wilson, King Pest, and ESPECIALLY Bon-Bon, which is absolutely hilarious. If you ever plan on being a writer, you MUST be familiar with this author to some degree. I wouldn't imitate his writing style by any means, but you can't deny that he is easily one of the most influential writers of our time.	2001-03-27
US	45374251	R3TIB9RWI143X	0812517725	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	GREAT HUNT FOR GREAT BOOK IS OVER	The second book in the Wheel of Time series is an enjoyable sequel, even if it is a little bit short of the first book's greatness. The story takes place where the first book left off--in Fal Dara, near the Blight. Moiraine and Lan don't have quite the roles as they did in the first book. In fact, they only make about two appearances. But in a way that prevents redundancy, which is good. So if you think that the second book is a rehash of the first, you're wrong. Instead of the bad guys chasing the good guys the tables have turned so that the good guys are after the bad guys--with a few exceptions. This book sticks with the same winning cast of characters that the first book had, but occasionally adding a few more characters along the way. If you get confused as to who's who, there's a glossary in the back. New lands are reached in this book, so get those red pens ready so you can mark where they go. There is one part toward's the beginning of the book that may be very confusing to some people, as it was to me the first few times. But now I can explain it. Know the part where Rand is in the village and has 3 visions, all of them almost exactly alike (same wording and all)? No, Mr. Jordan was not out of his mind when he did that. There is some symbolism in there if you can find it. Think of the number 6. In each scene, a 6 is mentioned. Put three of them together and you get 666--the sign of the beast. Why RJ did that is beyond me, but that's my way of seeing it. One of my favorite parts of this book--and the series--is when one of the characters has a vision about what would have happened if they had NOT left Emond's Field. I won't tell you anything about it, because it is definitely worth reading several times. That part alone adds an extra dimension to the work in that it justifies what the character's are doing. The last battle at the end of the book also has some symbolism. Think Moses and his raised rod while the Israelites are fighting and you'll probably figure it out. Overall, this is a fast-paced, well-written, symbolism-full book. It is definitely worth your time and money.	2001-03-25
US	45374251	R1Z0CVWYULZHK7	0812513738	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	ROBERT JORDAN RISING	The Wheel of Time series hits some new heights with this fourth book. It starts where the third book left off--the Stone of Tear. Rand is the Dragon Reborn, the Stone has fallen, and the sword called Callandor is in Rand's possession. But Rand can't stay in the musty fortress forever. The Last Battle is coming and Rand has a long way to go to get ready for it. Meanwhile, Mat is trying to find some answers, while the women are hunting down some of the members of the Black Ajah. In some parts this book is slower than the previous three, but some of the parts that I mention below are what make this book an easy 5 stars. About a third through the book is a part where Rand has a series of visions where he learns about the true history of the Aiel. There is lots of history in those two chapters for you Wheel of Time buffs out there, so you might want to make a chart or something when you get to that part. That part's very fun to read. Another good part is where the young Tinker named Aram picks up a sword for the first time. I found that scene very moving and convincing. When you read about Tanchico, there will be mention of a museum-type place where there is a dinosaur-like skeleton (from what I gather of RJ's description). If you've been paying attention, he mentions it in book 2 in a sentence somewhere. Although I started the series with book 3 (and loved it!), I wouldn't recommend starting with book 4--unless you're really desperate to read this book. There is simply too much stuff you'd have missed out on. Like most of the Wheel of Time books, I own this one in hardback and am most pleased with it. I highly recommend this book.	2001-03-25
US	45374251	RIWSVSETUGLK2	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	5	3	6	N	N	HORRIFYINGLY ACCURATE	Although this book was written in 1932, it is amazing how much of it is happening now. In the book, people worship the Ford god. Of course, Ford was one of the biggest, if not THE biggest and most important company back then. Cars were beginning to replace the horse-and-buggy way of traveling. Huxley obviously took note of this fact while writing this book, and it's AMAZING how it seamlessly fits in. The Year of Our Lord is The Year of Our Ford in Brave New World. Scary, huh? Babies are mass-produced and predestined as to what field they will work in--batch A will be doctors, batch B will be engineers, etc. There is a drug called Soma that reminds me a lot of the melange in Frank Herbert's Dune. As in most if not all utopian novels, people fornicate with whoever they want and think nothing of it. The writing style is certainly different from the norm. Not exactly Hemingway, but not exactly like those older authors who would spend ten pages describing a mountain range. In between but leaning towards Hemingway. One of the major characters of the story is a man known as the Savage. The first half of the book goes into detail about the society, while the second half focusing primarily on the Savage who is dragged out of his reservation and forced to cope with this Brave New World. The last line of this book was most shocking, but understandable, and is certainly one of the most memorable ending-lines in literature. Before reading it, my expectations weren't so high for this book, because I was under the impressions that any book written before 1980 would be boring. I was wrong. This is one of the very few books that EVERYBODY should read. IGNORE THIS BOOK AT YOUR OWN RISK.	2001-03-25
US	45374251	RFN169420C5GK	0441102670	337219306	Chapterhouse: Dune (Dune Chronicles, Book 6)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	HERBERT'S LAST GIFT	This was the last DUNE book that Frank Herbert would ever get to write, and it's a good thing that he even got to finish it, because he died shortly after. The title of the book was given by his wife, Bev, who died before Frank did. I've read all the books in the series, some of them more than once. Although I liked this book, I wouldn't say it's Dune's equal. But it is definitely worth reading and is one of the best endings to a series that I've read. What I mean is that I found the ending very appropriate. THE FOLLOWING MAY BE SPOILING MATERIAL IF YOU HAVEN'T READ ALL OF BOOK FIVE--HERETICS OF DUNE. As you know, at the end of book 5, Dune is destroyed completely. In book six, another planet is being transformed into Dune. Forests and jungles are being stripped away in favor of the desert. At least one sandworm was salvaged from Dune and is being placed on this &quot;new&quot; Dune. But the primary focus of book six is on a new threat known as the HONORED MATRES. These are powerful females, very much like the Bene Gesserit. As in most of the Dune books, the battles aren't so much physical as they are verbal and psychological. Some old characters make reappearances in this book and some new characters are introduced. I'm not sure if Herbert intended this to be his last Dune book, but from what I've read, it's a very fitting ending to a fantastic series!	2001-03-25
US	45374251	R3S0F5LF7Z1BTV	0898794641	68711469	Dare to Be a Great Writer: 329 Keys to Powerful Fiction	Books	3	5	10	N	N	not THAT great	Yes, there are lots of things you can learn from in this book, but there is also some fluff, too. For example, I distinctly remember a part in here where he says something like &quot;don't write after having sex, you'll be tired.&quot; Well duh! Anybody with half a head on their shoulders could have figured that one out. Anyway, as far as how-to-write books go, this one is only okay. It definitely reads fast. But I couldn't help wondering why I've never heard of this author before. I think he's written a bestseller or two, but that doesn't prove anything because I've read lots of bestselling and award-winning books that were absolutely rotten. I remember almost nothing about this book, except the part in quotations above and the fact that there was some humor, but I wanted a how-to-write book, not a comedy. If you ask me, the best how-to-write book is THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE by STRUNK and WHITE.	2001-03-24
US	45374251	R3O5ZNTNJ69WXE	0679741143	337759702	Confessions of a Crap Artist	Books	5	25	25	N	N	ONE OF DICK'S BEST	A tire-regroover named Jack Isidore is an eccentric fellow. He believes that sunlight has weight, cows have four stomachs, the earth is hollow, and by the way, the world is going to end on April 23rd. But the weirdest part of the story is this: his &quot;normal&quot; sister and brother-in-law and some friends of theirs are even STRANGER than he is. In this book Philip K. Dick explores what it means to be normal. Are we any different from the people in the mental institutions? Unlike some of PKD's books, this one is very consistent and keeps your attention the whole way through. I was very pleased with it. Sure, it's more fiction than science fiction, but it proves how versatile an author PKD really is. This is definitely one of his best books, and I've read about half of his novels.	2001-03-23
US	45374251	R2T3YCTAWEY0UU	0679740651	770792410	The Game-Players of Titan	Books	4	0	0	N	N	GREAT BEGINNING AND END	This was not the first PKD book that I read, but it is the one responsible for making me go to second-hand bookstores and buying up every PKD book in sight. How can you possibly resist a book that starts off with a guy having a heated argument with his car? The car says that the guy is too drunk to drive. If there's one thing I like about PKD, the guy is WEIRD! This is definitely not for people who like blazing action, alien invaders, pulsed plasma rifles in the 40 watt range. A PKD book is like what you would expect to find in a Mars library in the year 3000 after we've colonized it. Anyway, this particular book is about telepathic aliens and a group of humans who have a passion for card-playing. The game is called bluff--sorta like BS. Anyway, if you're wondering how it's played, here's what I gathered from READING THE BOOK. Some people (ahem!) say that &quot;PKD didn't describe the game.&quot; Okay. You have a straight track consisting of a large number of squares--like a sidewalk. You pick a face-down card from the pile. The object is to get to the end without overshooting or undershooting. First one there wins. Let's say you draw a 10, but you need a 12 in order to win. You can legally move 10, or you can BLUFF, move 12 and hope nobody catches you. Of course, the aliens are telepathic. So how are the humans supposed to win? Read it and find out. Sure, the middle was a little lagging, but the ending MORE than made up for that. Overall a great book, even if it isn't one of PKD's best.	2001-03-22
US	45374251	RPPCWSQZ2C4BP	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	5	5	N	N	SCI-FI'S LAWRENCE OF ARABIA	As is usually the case with me, the library didn't have Dune so I had to read Dune Messiah instead, then I read God Emperor of Dune, THEN I read Dune. When I went to the used bookstore this is what the lady at the cash register said, &quot;Go ahead and take it, it is very important that you read this book.&quot; I'll always remember those words. Dune was far more detailed and wonderful than the previous two books in the series that I had read. Characters that remind you of old friends, great dialogue, a storyline that is truly original and amazing. One parallel that I think many people overlook is that Dune is basically a Science Fiction version of Lawrence of Arabia. A foreigner goes to the desert and wins the hearts of the natives, becoming their leader and takes them to fight against tyranny. I've heard that Lawrence would subject himself to pain so that he would be able to endure it better. Does this remind you of the scene in the beginning when Paul places his hand in the box of pain? There is some really memorable dialogue. In the beginning of the book Thufir Hawat tells Paul how he shouldn't have his back to a door, since he might be assassinated. Hundreds of pages later, Paul meet Thufir and, thinking he's matured, says to Thufir, &quot;as you can see, my back is towards no door.&quot; Thufir brilliantly counters with: &quot;The universe is full of doors.&quot; There are some people who say that this is the worst SF novel ever written. Apparently they are looking too hard at the consistency and sentence-structure and not appreciating this book for its entertainment value. I've read it TWICE so far and I'll definitely read it some more. You might want to note that many fantasy authors use this book as a basis for their works. Robert Jordan and Terry Goodkind come to mind. Fremen = Aiel, Confessors and Aes Sedai = Bene Gesserit. Also, the word &quot;shai'tan&quot; can be found in this book, which is a word that is used by Robert Jordan and Thomas Harris, the guy who wrote Hannibal.	2001-03-21
US	45374251	ROOQIAWY3TXFV	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	4	0	0	N	N	REFRESHING!	In a genre that is POLLUTED with dragons, sorcerers, evil priests, and the like, this book is a breath of fresh air. Battle barges, an albino elf who has to have drugs to stay alive, an evil man who wants to take over the throne. If you've read anything by Harlan Ellison or Philip K. Dick then you've probably come across Moorcock's name either in a dedication or a praise report. Moorcock writes DARKER FANTASY than most authors. The protagonist is two-sided, capable of both good and evil, but mostly good. Lots of blood and gore and flying body parts... If you like Robert E. Howard, Conan, formula-type stories with interesting twists, then this is a good series. Not the best, by any means, but far better than a lot of the garbage on the shelves. Moorcock has been writing for many years and is a very talented and experienced writer who knows the fantasy genre....END	2001-03-21
US	45374251	R15RBREESAOO66	0140092501	887185706	Chaos: Making a New Science	Books	5	11	11	N	N	CHAOS THEORY 101	I normally read fantasy and science fiction. I ALMOST NEVER read non-fiction. When I read Jurassic Park I was intrigued by Ian Malcolm and his Chaos Theory. How he proved the scientists wrong. I guess I liked his smart-alec-ness. Anyway, I ended up reading Chaos and ended up loving it. I appreciate the fact the Mr. Gleick does not bog the reader down with equations and mathematical terms that only a chaotician or nuclear-physicist would understand. Just about every person can read this book. Whether you'll enjoy it or not is another story. I agree with some of the other reviews that he did concentrate mostly on the people, not what they did. But I haven't read any other books on this subject so I'm a poor judge as to whether Mr. Gleick was justified in doing that. This book definitely changed my life. I see the world differently. A cloud is not one big structure, but a structure made up of infinitely many smaller structures. By all means give this book a shot, it's well worth your time.	2001-03-20
US	45374251	R16AODHVDCBBS0	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	1	2	N	N	DON'T JUDGE A BOOK BY ITS COVER	...I remember that I started reading this book late at night, and I was so involved with the story that I read up to page 40+ (I'm a slow reader) and would have read more if it weren't for plain-old tiredness. I finished this book shortly after. Part fantasy, part fiction.... A very dense, complicated storyline that is fun to read. Memorable characters, memorable stories..., memorable book. I don't think that there's enough words to compliment this book, but it is certainly one of the best I've read. I'm 20 years old, if that's an indication as to how old you have to be in order to enjoy it. Buy it, read it, enjoy it. It's a GREAT READ!	2001-03-20
US	45374251	R1PE538SDGGB6H	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	438	489	N	N	TEXTBOOKS DON'T HAVE TO BE BIG	While skimming through Stephen King's book ON WRITING, he highly recommended THE ELEMENTS OF STYLE. Taking his advice I searched for a copy and found one in a free bin--of all places! I looked at it and decided that it was so much better than any other textbook that I had seen that I decided to WRITE IT. Three pages a day for a month or so. It's a very short book, only about 80 pages or so. You learn everything from words that are often spelled wrong, to punctuation, to style, etc. Very blunt and to the point. No exercises in here, problems 1 - 10 all. Nope, you just read this book and enjoy it. Why, there's actually a little humor in it at times, which is pretty good for a textbook. Now I've heard some people say that this book is bad because it is saying to follow all these rules and don't stray from them. I think they got it all wrong. This book is essentially saying this: you can't blaze new trails in the English language without having a solid foundation in the basics first! This goes for ANYTHING. You don't suddenly set off an a 200 mile trek, you slowly work up to it, starting from the basics. After you have mastered the basics, then you can break free. One thing that this book continually points out is that it is OFTEN A MATTER OF EAR. Meaning that if you are experienced enough, you will know whether to stick to the traditional or whether to be liberal when phrasing something, for example. By far this is the most talked-about textbook that I've seen and the most valuable.	2001-03-20
US	45374251	R2JD28G9LG890J	0812511816	456114433	The Eye of the World (The Wheel of Time, Book 1)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	THE AMERICAN TOLKIEN	Never since Tolkien has a fantasy book had such impact. Check out the number of praise reports on the first few pages of this book. Actually, I started the WOT series with book 3, then I FINALLY found a copy of book one. Although I still prefer book three--I guess it has to do with first impressions--The Eye of the World is The Dragon Reborn's equal. Unlike some fantasy books, the prologue is truly amazing--a presumably good man walking through a wasted palace and dead bodies, one of which is a dead woman. As it turns out, the good man is the one who did this! I won't tell you the rest of the prologue, but if it doesn't grab your attention for some reason just skip it and go to the first chapter. In the first paragraph of EVERY chapter of a WOT book, RJ starts with the EXACT same paragraph--except The Great Hunt, where the wording is slightly different. That first paragraph is truly memorable. A real classic. &quot;The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass . . .&quot; Robert Jordan uses the TOLKIEN FORMULA, which I explain in one of my other reviews (THE SWORD OF SHANNARA). The first hundred pages of the book take place in Emond's Field, developing characters slowly, getting a feel for the world, the customs, etc. But it is a FAST hundred pages. Then the characters get swept off on a grand adventure being chased by evil creatures. But unlike lots of fantasy book that I've read, the chase actually seems INTERESTING. The bad guys are scary and believable. RJ gets inside the characters' dreams, which is really original. One thing that I applaud RJ for is that he proves that--like Tolkien--you can still write a clean, sex-sceneless, wholesome fantasy novel and still have a shot at number one on the bestseller list. But just because it lacks sex-scenes, don't think this series is just for kids. Far from it! Anyway, when you go to a different land, you KNOW you're in a different land because he describes the customs, dialects, clothing, terrain layout, etc. VERY DETAILED, but not like 2 page cloud-descriptions. A TRUE PAGE-TURNER! I actually froze when I got to the chapter on the Blight because RJ really made it sound SO MENACING AND EVIL! The ending is OUTSTANDING. THERE'S NOT ENOUGHT BOLD TYPE TO PRAISE THIS BOOK, BUT YOU HAVE TO READ IT TO APPRECIATE IT. I've read it THREE times and I KNOW I'll read it again in the near future.	2001-03-20
US	45374251	R2E6R3YKKY023D	0440200636	315728228	Boat, The	Books	5	5	7	N	N	COMPLIMENTS THE MOVIE	I was MOST impressed with the movie Das Boot. If you do see the movie, make sure you see the German version with English subtitles, though. Because of this, I decided to read the book. I was very glad to see that the movie follows the book almost EXACTLY. All the movie does is leave out some parts and maybe a few dialogue changes here and there. But everything else is the same. In the book, I like the 80 page depth charge scenes. Yes, they're long and tedious, but after reading lots of war novels where the author talks about how the good guys get depth charged for what appears to be five minutes, it is clear that The Boat is very realistic in its portrayal of the sub-war. There are many things that you will learn in the book that the movie does not tell you. For example, why the sailors feared seagulls, why it was bad to work in the engine room of a surface vessel, why destroyers had to keep moving after dropping depth charges. Etc. All sorts of stuff that you thought you knew but did not know why it was that way. Like I say, since the movie follows the book closely, if you like one, you'll like the other. Both start the same way, both end the same way. The way I like it. This is by far one of the best war books that I've read.	2001-03-19
US	45374251	R6T49ZX56EQLQ	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	HE LOVED BIG BROTHER	Those last four words will make you CRINGE! Of course, they mean NOTHING to you if you haven't read the book. This is by far the most depressing book I've read. Stephen King's Stand can eat its heart out. A very frightening portrayal of life without privacy. Microphones in parks, surveillance mechanisms in all restaurants. Betrayal, love, hate, etc. I've read this book once, but I don't think I need to read it again, its effect was that powerful. A friend of mine also found this book depressing. Orwell does an outstanding narrative towards the end which contributes to the cringing part at the very end. I've read this book quite a while ago but its fascinating how much I remember it. This book shouldn't be ignored. Read it once, at once.	2001-03-17
US	45374251	R3W1M6AYBK0CS3	0425111016	121979525	Assassin (The Way of the Tiger, No 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MATURE CHOOSE-YOUR-OWN-ADVENTURE	Violence, ninjas, barbarians, demons, caves, dungeons, assassinations, etc. This book has just about everything you could want. I first got hooked on this series a LONG time ago but I still remember it. Easy to play, fun to read. Nice artwork. A must-read for all Japanophiles. To be honest, I'm not sure if I read--no, EXPERIENCED is the right word--this book, but chances are I did. Anyway, I remember how fun it was and I hope that you feel the same. It's a pity that these books went in vogue because I feel that they were really amazing in their own little way. It's not all just violence, either. There are some parts in some of the books where you have to choose advisors, because you're a ninja king. Great for the imagination.	2001-03-16
US	45374251	R34JC76CBS2XPA	0553560735	710568866	Red Mars (Mars Trilogy)	Books	1	17	38	N	N	RED MARS = NO STARS	Due to the hype, I bought--stupid stupid stupid!--all three of the books in this trilogy. I did finish the book, although I am not sure how I did it. Here's the storyline: Describe the landscape for 20 pages, describe in INTRICATE DETAIL what all the little widgets and gadgets that the colonists brought with them are, talk about the beautiful scenery some more, have sex, some more technical stuff, make a failing attempt to develop the characters, have sex again, etc. The back of the book talks about how the last hundred pages go at the speed of light. Sorry, but I didn't find the ending memorable at all. Then there's this hard-to-visualize part where they have an LONG elevator or something attached to one of Mars' moons. I felt like I was reading Pecos Bill and how he would lasso a tornado with his rope, only this time he's doing to a moon. Highly over-rated. See that bright red dot outside your window? I suggest you take your copy of Red Mars and throw it out the window in an attempt to knock the red planet out of the sky. No aliens, either. This book makes A Princess of Mars look good.	2001-03-16
US	45374251	R1YF3XMLYX6CID	0345354613	760372128	Eaters of the Dead	Books	5	6	6	N	N	I'VE READ IT TWICE	This book shows how versatile Michael Crichton is as a writer. He can write fiction, techno-thriller, nonfiction, and, with this work, he has proved that he can write fantasy and breath new life into a classic story. Basically, The 13th Warrior is about an Arab who goes to the land of the Vikings. According to Crichton, the first four chapters or so are based on actual texts. After that, Crichton starts to bring more elements from Beowulf into the story. For you fantasy fans out there, this book has lots of great stuff: Violent Vikings, Grendel monsters, Glow-worms, Dwarves, a great storyline, interesting characters, etc. I found it interesting what Crichton says about Viking life--their beliefs, how their villages are created (especially interesting was the purpose behind the small doorways to all their buildings), how the Vikings treat women, etc. A very fascinating book, one of the very few fiction books, actually, that even talks about the Vikings. The first part may be a little slow, but you can blame that on the historical text. Crichton did such a seamless job of blending his writing style with that of the Arab's that I felt as if it were the Arab talking the whole time (or the other way around.) If you've never read the epic poem Beowulf because of the archaic language, this book is a fairly decent substitute. I say fairly because it doesn't exactly follow the real story of Beowulf at all, just borrows a few elements here and there. If you're looking for a good translation of the REAL Beowulf, try the Seamus Heaney translation as there is no archaic language, making it a really easy read. Overall, the 13th Warrior is a great fantasy novel, a fresh escape from the kill-the-dragon save-the-princess kill-the-ultimate-evil storyline.	2001-03-15
US	45374251	R3IFJX8ZN2WOL6	0312859295	532668613	The Conan Chronicles	Books	3	4	7	N	N	5 STARS, HUH?	Well if this book deserves 5 stars, then please tell me why it is not on any 100 best fantasy books list out there. As a matter of fact, the only Conan novel on a 100 best fantasy books list is THE HOUR OF THE DRAGON (a.k.a. CONAN THE CONQUERER) by Robert E. Howard. By the way, REH is the man who started the whole Conan thing. I found these three Conan stories dark and depressing: evil sorcerers doing all sorts of demonic and satanic things, sacrafices, etc. Sure, Howard wrote the same, but his Conan yarns had the fire of genius in them. Although it is not a novel, read A WITCH SHALL BE BORN by REH. Maybe not one of REH's best Conan short stories, but it definitely has the best chapter on Conan--The Tree of Death. I can imagine you guys giving 5 stars for Eye of the World by Robert Jordan, but not for these Conan stories.	2001-03-15
US	45374251	R30WVHN09NMX0E	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	FINALLY!!!    A READABLE BEOWULF!!!	I'm not sure how well Seamus Heaney translated Beowulf into English, but he sure made it easy to read. I've tried to read Beowulf many times in my life, and each time I hit a brick wall because the dumb author throws some archaic word at me. You shouldn't have to be an Anglo-Saxon language student to enjoy literature. The English poem is done in the alliterative style, which is okay, although I prefer rhyming poems. But I guess Beowulf wasn't meant to rhyme and neither are translated works. It's nice to have the brief synopsis footnotes at the side of the pages because it quickly tells you what happened, sparing you from reading the passage umpteen dozen times to understand it. You'll get the basic idea pretty easily, but you won't understand all aspects of the storyline the first time around. I wish there were more breaks in the text. I had a heck of a time finding a place to stop, so as a result I finished this book very fast. Professors, complain all you want, I like this book because you can READ it without running to a dictionary or calling your professor on the phone every other line. Highly recommended.	2001-03-15
US	45374251	R1096B81LEP12	0440178002	191357398	Shogun (Asian Saga)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A FAST 1000+ PAGES	I don't read a lot of historical fiction, but from what I have read, I can't deny that Shogun is easily one of the best. To be brief, let me say that this book is a real page-turner and has lots of very moving scenes. However, the story does have its inaccuracies. Toranaga is the REAL, HISTORICAL Tokugawa Ieyasu. There really was a battle of Sekigahara. There really was a Blackthorne, but I don't know what his name is. Overall, this book is fairly close to history and James Clavell just took the liberty of changing some of the names and some of the way things are. As for the authenticity of the language in the book, I'm not sure, 'cause I don't speak Japanese. I did feel, though, that the Japanese came across as dumb. Where the English came across as superior. Well, sorta. The Japanese certainly had better hygiene and swords. One final thing, if I were you, I would read TAIKO by Eiji Yoshikawa. Yoshikawa is a Japanese author. Anyway, Taiko tells of the events before Shogun. Then read Shogun. Shogun ENDS with the battle of Sekigahara. What's really neat is that MUSASHI by Yoshikawa STARTS with the battle of Sekigahara. So, if you read these three books, you will have a pretty good view of Japanese history. Yoshikawa, by the way, uses the real Japanese names.	2001-03-14
US	45374251	RQNQQQW6R116E	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	2	5	13	N	N	ATTENTION TEACHERS!	I had to read this book in my sophomore Honors English class. Basically, it is about book-burning and the importance of books. BUT IF YOU WANT TO IMPART TO YOUR STUDENTS THE IMPORTANCE OF READING, LET THEM READ SOMETHING THAT IS AT LEAST INTERESTING! Instead of having your students read Fahrenheit 451, let them read DUNE (and don't say it's bad because the movies were!), or HARLAN ELLISON, or PHILIP K. DICK. NOT this pocket-protector, suit and tie business writer, Bradbury. I've tried reading some of his other stuff. He's not that good. This book was okay, but nothing great and certainly nothing I would spend money on or read again. Have you ever heard of &quot;show, don't tell&quot;? This book only TELLS why books are important. But let the student read a good book and that will SHOW them why books are important. This is one of many rotten books that I have read in High School. It's no wonder, with book selections like these, that students don't read and are illiterate.	2001-03-11
US	45374251	R1C4TTAB55GLT	1852900229	20930023	The Book of Sand (Large Print Masterworks)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST SHORT STORY WRITERS OUT THERE, PERIOD!	Speculative fiction writer Harlan Ellison was the one who introduced me to Jorge Luis Borges. In one of his introductions to his story collections, he was saying how he felt unfit to sweep up Borges' shadow, or something like that. He went on further to say that it was a pity that Borges didn't get the Noble Prize for Literature. I agree. As you can probably tell, I'm a HUGE Harlan Ellison fan, but I like Borges just as much. Anyway, this was the first book by Borges that I read, and I was MOST IMPRESSED. Here's what I remember of it: There's a short story in there somewhere where Borges says something to the extent that--the printing press was a bad invention. What! An author, whose very livelyhood depends on the modern methods of printing said THAT?! You'll have to read the story to see his explanation, but I was impressed with it. The Congress is supposed to be one of Borges' favorite stories. Personally, I didn't understand it that well, but I'm not saying that I hate it. My favorite story of the bunch? The Book of Sand. A very well written short story about a book with as many pages as there are grains of sand. The ending reminded me of the ending to Raiders of the Lost Ark in a way. If you like Ellison, Tolkien, Spanish history, literature, etc. you will like Borges a lot!	2001-03-11
US	45374251	R3W3Z5GNO1NHWS	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	M-O--O-N spells Okay. Laws, yes!	What I expected: The ultimate horror novel, something that would give you nightmares as long as you read it and would haunt you for the rest of your life. The ultimate story of good versus evil. The darkest, most terrifying piece of fiction ever written. What I got: The first part where Captain Tripps kills everyone off moved at a really fast pace. After that, it slowed down a bit. The committee meetings were too long. I want horror, not politics. There was no part in this book that really scared me. Shocked me, sure, but not scared. The ending was a real let-down. It just happens so fast that you feel cheated. I read several hundred pages for THIS! The end-end was sorta confusing. What happened? Beats me. Overall this is an okay book, not as tightly constructed as some of King's other works. Some of the characters in here are really good. Laws, yes! It could use an editing job.	2001-03-10
US	45374251	R27XU5AJ7I6HW2	0812513711	820960971	The Dragon Reborn (The Wheel of Time, Book 3)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	HIGHLY UNDER-RATED	Let me tell you how good this book is. My public library didn't have books one and two of the Wheel of Time series, so I was stuck with book three (a friend of mine had recommended the series to me). But even though I was missing out on roughly 2000 pages of material, Robert Jordan developed his characters and his world so well that I felt that I wasn't missing anything at all. I remember that I couldn't wait to come home so I could read this great book. I think the biggest thing that I liked about it was that it was ORIGINAL. No sorcerers (at least not by that name), no fire-breathing dragons. The characters treated the enemies as if they were REAL, causing me to further believe in the story. I like how RJ starts off the book by putting one of the characters in a wicked catch-22 situation. And RJ is very skilled when it comes to ending a chapter. Some authors are so boring that you have to push yourself to turn the page. Not so with this book. But most of all, I liked the part towards the end, where they're on the rooftop, which reminded me of that chimney-sweep dancing scene in Mary Poppins. Sorta. As for those of you who complain that Rand becomes the Dragon Reborn too quickly, I don't know what you're talking about. It takes him 2000+ pages to become the Dragon Reborn. All throughout the series we see how he is slowly making the transition from denial to acceptance. In this book he finally accepts who he is. Believe me, a slow transition like that is far more believable than one of those dumb books where the protagonist realizes that he's a prince on page 50 and kills the &quot;ultimate&quot; evil on page 300. Do yourself a favor, pick up this book and read it. I've read it FOUR times (and counting). In my mind, this is one of the top three Wheel of Time books. I'd rather read a bad (not that he's written any bad books) RJ book than read some stupid L. Sprague de Camp book who is a PASTICHE author, who can only make his living finishing uncompleted ROBERT E. HOWARD Conan stories!	2001-03-10
US	45374251	R2HLMRZLHYIS8H	0345314255	643750532	The Sword of Shannara	Books	2	11	18	N	N	TOLKIEN WANNA-BE	So far I've seen three authors (Brooks, Jordan, and Goodkind)that have used what I like to call THE TOLKIEN FORMULA. Here's how it goes: Some people in a little village, ignorant of the world. One day, a stranger comes to town and says, &quot;There's evil in the world and YOU'RE going to be the one who's going to stop it. Then they get swept off on this grand adventure and usually the stranger dies or we are led to believe that the stranger died. The village runt learns what he really is and kills the bad guy at the end.  I find it interesting that all the authors that have used this formula have had great success. But between Robert Jordan, Terry Goodkind and Terry Brooks, Terry Brooks does the worst job. This book started out interesting, but before long I was just able to guess what was going to happen. I KNEW that the sorcerer-stranger was going to &quot;die&quot; and then get brought back to life. I KNEW the good guys would win. As a result, there were very few surprises. Brooks' world is BLAND compared to the worlds of Jordan and Goodkind and Tolkien. He hardly spent any time at all describing the landscape. As for the storyline, Brooks lacks there tremendously. Utterly predictable, boring, nothing inventive or exciting. I remember while reading this I was thinking, &quot;I can't wait to finish this stupid book so I could read EYE OF THE WORLD for the THIRD time.&quot; If you like the Tolkien formula, read TOLKIEN, JORDAN, OR GOODKIND. NOT Brooks.	2001-03-09
US	45374251	R2PQ8RG3CYTGW1	0525457585	997417953	The Neverending Story	Books	3	3	16	N	N	MIXED FEELINGS	Let me start by first saying this: The book is a lot different from the movie. As a matter of fact, the book covers BOTH movies, although it covers the first one almost exactly. In some ways I liked the movies better, and in some ways I liked the book better. If the best of both were to be combined, this book would have been really great. The first 200 pages of this book tells how Atreyu goes on his quest, how Bastian enters Fantastica. That part was really well written and moved quickly. But from page 200 or so to around page 300, the storyline seemed to get a little bit weak. Bastain is just romping around Fantastica without really knowing what he's doing or where he's going. If he wants to go to real world, why doesn't he just wish himself there? But then from page 300 or so to the end, the storyline picks up again--for the most part. The ending explains a lot of things that I've been wondering about earlier, but it doesn't explain everything. At least not in cut-and-dry language. Ende beats around the bush a little bit. What is the Neverending story? I think it's any story you read or something like that, but I'm not sure. Young children will probably love this book. Personally, my favorites are Robert Jordan and Robert E. Howard since I'm not a kid any more--I'm 20. Bastian is a really interesting character. At first you like him, then you hate his guts because he's so goody-two-shoesy, then you REALLY hate him because he becomes quite a brat. One final point, take note that there are 26 chapters and that each chapter starts with the next letter of the alphabet. Overall this was a good book, but mostly for younger people. Older people can still enjoy it, but don't expect bloody battles, hot romance, or anything like that.	2001-03-07
US	45374251	R380RL4IQ6HQFU	0441114539	813358085	Conan 02 Of Cimmeria (Conan Series)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	4 STARS FOR ROBERT E. HOWARD	To be honest, I didn't bother reading the de Camp and Lin Carter stories. Why? They're pastiche authors. And no one can write Conan like its creator, Robert E. Howard. Even Robert Jordan's Conan stories were dirt compared to Robert E. Howard's.  To me, pastiche authors are the scum of the earth because they are so low that they have to continue someone elses creation just to make a living--can't they be original. Sure, de Camp has written other stuff, but most people would associate him with Conan. When the Conan movie came out in the 80's, I thought that de Camp was the creator of Conan. Boy was I wrong!  As far as the book goes, the three Robert E. Howard stories inside are good, but not Howard's best. I thought that the Frost-Giant's Daughter was the best of the three. But I think that Howard's best short story was A Witch Shall Be Born.  Looking at the book as a whole, it's only worth about 2 or 3 stars, but you can blame de Camp and Carter for dragging the rating down.	2001-02-27
US	45374251	R1HZG5351CEOX9	0441662269	161247950	Phoenix Without Ashes	Books	5	14	15	N	N	i normally don't like collaborations, BUT . . .!	Read this book, and see why Harlan Ellison, the best short story writer ever, also got an award for best screenplay. The book is the screenplay in novel format, but I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT! The basic storyline is this (I got to tell you something because only one other person has commented on this book, which is really sad.): In outer space there is a spaceship consisting of tons of biospheres. Each biosphere contains a culture, but these cultures have no contact amongst themselves. In fact, they've been in space so long that they don't even know they're in space! They think that the biosphere is the world! Anyway, in this one biosphere, an exiled man is driven away for his heretical preachings. A large man-hunt takes place . . . and that's when things REALLY get interesting and you finish this book in one sitting. The writing is excellently done. The chapters end with bangs, the characters act and do things that actually bring out all sorts of emotions in you. When you finish this book, all you can say is WOW! I've read it once, but I KNOW I'm going to read it again . . . and again, etc. This book deserves more than four stars, even more than five. All Harlan fans must read this.	2001-02-27
US	45374251	RYUFGH9Y5MCQG	0006482880	635454783	The Penultimate Truth	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Not Dick at his best.	First star: While reading this, I couldn't help but wonder if this is where James Cameron got the idea for the Terminator movies. Notice how the robot assassins can change shape when you read this. Second star: A pretty interesting storyline, enough to make you pick it up and start reading it. Third star: The afterward was pretty good. <br />In the afterward you learn that PKD has an inconsistency in this book, which is why it is confusing at times. First he's trying to say one thing, then a hundred pages later he changes his mind and is trying to say something else. This book is not really a page turner, and only hardcore PKD fans should read it.	2001-02-27
US	45374251	R1XHHI662AP0XB	0345331389	286299382	A Princess of Mars	Books	3	8	13	N	N	WHOAH! TIME OUT!	My Advanced Placement English teacher recommended that we try and find and read the Martian Tales of ERB. I took his advice and I currently own all of them in hardback, with no intention of selling them . . . ever.  But I disagree that this book and the following books are the best in science fiction. For the time, I'm sure that they were great, but now they're a little bit in vogue.  The main reason why I read them is because I wanted to see what my teacher meant when he said, &quot;This is the original Star Wars.&quot; Or at least part of it. You'll find parallels throughout the series. Jed = Jedi, etc.  But when I compare this one book to Dune or any book by Philip K. Dick, or any short story by Harlan Ellison, there is no way I could give this book more than three stars.  Admittedly, the first book might be different and refreshing after reading tons of fight-the-alien-hordes colonize-the-planet type of books. But when you read more of the series, you'll see that these are pretty much formula stories, and that detracts from the books reread value. You read one, you've almost read them all.  There's a character named Dejah Thoris. It seems that she's almost always getting kidnapped or her hero is getting into trouble. After a while you get a sense of Dejah vu, if you know what I mean.  ERB will put his character in a cell or something and with a leap and a bound he jumps out of the pit, grabs the dangling rope with his right arm while catching the screaming, falling Dejah Thoris in his left, and dodging bullets at the same time.  No, that doesn't happen in THIS book. But at least you know now, how he sometimes writes. These books are simply too predictable to give more than 3 stars. With so few characters, you KNOW the good guy isn't going to die.  Basically, if you like pulp fiction, formula stories, star wars, etc. this is a good book and a good series. But I wouldn't say that it's the best.	2001-02-26
US	45374251	R3CY4Z077JZ6IR	0441094996	271001733	The Cat Who Walks through Walls	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Well . . .	If I were you, I'd read only the first half of this book. It's really clever. The characters are likeable, there's humor, what more can a guy ask for? But then, just about halfway through the book, it starts to get confusing. What is the significance of the stupid cat? You never find out. Not really. He dedicates like one sentence to the topic. In the last half the story just seems to fall apart.  The first half is sort of like a mystery. They are trying to figure out something--but I don't remember what, that should tell you something. But I do remember this cute little poem from the first half of the book: When in danger or in doubt run in circles, scream and shout.	2001-02-25
US	45374251	R2Y59BX6I1JTAR	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	3	9	13	N	N	GOOD, BUT NOT HIS BEST	I'm a big Wheel of Time fan. I got book 9 the very day it came out, the very hour. It took me over a month to finish reading it--considerably longer than the first 4 books in the series. The storyline is not near as urgent or interesting as the first few books, but I wouldn't necessarily say that it's enough to put you to sleep. I'd rather be reading about Aes Sedai than about boring sorcerers fighting dragons.  There are also several other points that I'd like to make that might be of some help to those who are wondering why the series is seemingly dragging on. First of all, starting with book 5, we noticed that RJ started to take a major character out of the storyline so that he could develop another one. That's actually a pretty brilliant idea, since it FORCES YOU to read book 7 to find out what happened to the character in book 5. OBVIOUSLY, IF ROBERT JORDAN TOLD YOU THE FATES OF ALL THE CHARACTERS IN ONE BOOK, THERE WOULD BE NO NEED FOR A SEQUEL.  Unlike some fantasy series where the writer has the last battle in the first book and then comes up with a lame excuse for a sequel, saying that &quot;oh, there's ANOTHER ultimate evil in the world, Robert Jordan promises a LAST BATTLE. There will be no book 14, The Revenge of the Dark One.  Finally, although book 9 may have been lacking in many areas, I CAN GUARANTEE YOU that book 10 is going to be AWESOME. We all know what happened at the end of book 8, and what's waiting for us at the start of book 10. . .	2001-02-13
US	45374251	RLSDL3A77VEFL	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Well . . .	I read this book because I heard that the series was pretty good. I remember the first page where the mouse says, &quot;I tripped on my abbot, father habit.&quot; I absolutely loved that part, and still do.  But as I got further, my mind told me that this was going to be another one of those predictable fantasy novels. I had no doubt in my mind that the good guy was going to win because the good guys were so pure and good and the bad guys were so stupid that they couldn't possibly win anyway. As far as the storyline goes, it was okay and kinda original. The artwork was very good, I thought. Bottom line: If you want something simple and pleasant, this is good fantasy. If you want something darker and more complex, more like hardcore fantasy read something else.	2001-02-06
